The fight lasted three hours, from four o'clock until dark. Seventy of the British fell. But
the want of the field-piece left behind with Singleton, and the failure of their ammunition,
not a charge of which remained with the Americans at the close of the fight, saved the enemy,
whose infantry alone, according to Sumter, was superior to his whole force. The Americans attacked
them with half their number. But Coates held his position, and tidings of the approach of Rawdon,
who had left Orangeburg, prompted Sumter to retreat across the Santee. His expedition had not
been successful. It does not concern us to inquire by whose errors or defects it failed. Enough,
that, in all things, where Marion and his men were concerned, they acquitted themselves in
a manner calculated to sustain their former reputation. The attack upon Coates at the house,
we are told, was made against Marion's opinion, who blamed Sumter for wasting the lives of
his men. Without a field-piece, it was scarcely possible that an inferior should have succeeded
against a superior force, in a strong position. Sumter was courageous to rashness. His spirit
could not be restrained in sight of the enemy. With a brave force at his command, he was not
satisfied to be idle, and his courage was frequently exercised at the expense of his judgment.
The men of Marion complained that they had been exposed unnecessarily in the conflict. It is
certain that they were the only sufferers. Had Sumter but waited for his artillery, and simply
held the enemy in check, the victory must have been complete, and this victory was of the last
importance to the Americans. It would have involved the loss of one entire British regiment,
at a moment when, two others having been required at New York from South Carolina, the force
remaining with Rawdon would have been barely adequate to the retention of Charleston. This
necessity would have withdrawn the latter general at once from Orangeburg, and the subsequent
bloody battle of Eutaw would have been averted accordingly. Greene, speaking of this combat,
writes:--"The affair was clever, but by no means equal to what it ought to have been. The whole
regiment of six hundred men would have been captured, if General Sumter had not detailed too
much, and had not mistaken a covering party for an attack." It may be added, that the party
actually engaged in the attack on Coates, were almost exclusively South Carolina militia. Under
favorite leaders they had betrayed no such apprehensions as are natural enough to men who lack
confidence in themselves and captains. They had shown the courage of veterans, though they
may have failed of that entire success which is usually supposed to follow from a veteran experience.

After the battle of Quinby the joint forces of Sumter and Marion were separated. The former
retired up the Congaree; the latter took charge of the country on the Santee; while Greene
placed himself in a camp of rest at the High Hills in the district which has since taken the
name of Sumter. His troops were in a wretched state of incapacity, in consequence of sickness.
The region to which he retired was famous for its salubrity, and the intense heat of the season
effectually forbade much military activity. The opposing generals were content to watch each
other. It was while he held this position that Col. Hayne, of the militia, was executed as
a traitor by the British. The case of this gentleman was that of many in the State. He had
taken parole at a time when the country was overrun by the enemy. This parole was subsequently
withdrawn by the conquerors, when they supposed the people to have been subdued, and desired
their services as militia. But the British were in turn driven from the field. The Americans
acquired the ascendant. The section of the country in which Hayne resided was overrun by a
detachment of Marion, under Col. Harden, and Hayne availed himself of the occasion to take
up arms for his country. He was a popular gentleman, and soon gathered a strong party of militia.
His career was distinguished by some small successes, and, with a party of Col. Harden's horse,
by a sudden dash in the vicinity of Charleston, he succeeded in taking prisoner General Williamson,
formerly of the Americans, whose life was forfeited to the country. The capture of Williamson
put all the available cavalry of the British into activity, and by an unfortunate indiscretion,
Hayne suffered himself to be overtaken. His execution soon followed his capture. This was a
proceeding equally barbarous and unjustifiable--neither sanctioned by policy nor propriety.
It took place after a brief examination, and without any trial. The proceeding was equally
unauthorized by civil and martial law. It was not long before this, as the reader will remember,
that Marion, in consequence of the execution of some of his men by the British, had threatened
them with retaliation. Greene, who knew the decisive character of Marion, and was apprehensive
that this wanton crime would render him as prompt as he was fearless, in avenging it, thus
writes to prevent him: "Do not take any measures in the matter towards retaliation, for I do
not intend to retaliate upon the TORY officers, but the BRITISH. It is my intention to demand
the reasons of the Colonel's being put to death; and if they are unsatisfactory, as I am sure
they will be, and if they refuse to make satisfaction, as I expect they will, to publish my
intention of giving no quarter to British officers, of any rank, that fall into our hands.
Should we attempt to retaliate upon their militia officers, I am sure they would persevere
in the measure, in order to increase the animosity between the Whigs and Tories, that they
might stand idle spectators, and see them butcher each other. As I do not wish my intentions
known to the enemy but through an official channel, and as this WILL BE DELAYED FOR SOME FEW
DAYS TO GIVE OUR FRIENDS IN ST. AUGUSTINE TIME TO GET OFF, I wish you not to mention the matter
to any mortal out of your family."

Weems represents Marion as being greatly averse to this measure of retaliation, and as having
censured those officers of the regular army who demanded of Greene the adoption of this remedy.
But the biographer wrote rather from his own benevolent nature than from the record. Marion
had no scruples about the necessity of such a measure in particular cases; and, however much
he might wish to avoid its execution, he was yet fully prepared to adopt it whenever the policy
of the proceeding was unquestionable. Fortunately, the decisive resolutions which were expressed
by the Americans, their increasing successes, the fact that they had several British officers
of reputation in their hands,--all conspired to produce, in the minds of the enemy, a greater
regard to the rights of justice and humanity. As retaliation in such cases is justifiable only
as a preventive and remedial measure, it now ceased to be necessary; and, with proper views
of the affair, the resolves of Greene and Marion were suffered to remain unexpunged, in proof
of their indignation, rather than their purpose. But a few days had elapsed after the execution
of Hayne when a party of Marion's men, under Captain Ervine, fell in with and captured a favorite
British officer, Captain Campbell, with two subalterns, in charge of a convoying detachment.
They were at once committed to the provost guard, and soon communicated their apprehensions
to Charleston. A meeting of British officers was held, and their dissatisfaction at this new
feature, introduced into the warfare of the country, was expressed in such terms, as contributed,
along with the prompt proceedings of the Americans, to bring Balfour, the commandant of Charleston,
under whose authority the execution of Hayne had taken place, to a better sense of mercy and
prudence. We shall have no farther occasion to refer to these proceedings. It is enough that
the threat of retaliation, followed up by such decided movements as left no doubt of the resolution
of the Americans, produced all the beneficial effects which could have accrued from its execution.

The incursion of Sumter and Marion into the low country, drew Lord Rawdon from Orangeburg,
with five hundred men, to Charleston, from which place, after lingering just long enough to
witness the death of Hayne, he sailed for New York. He left Lieut.-Col. Stewart in command
at Orangeburg. From this post, Stewart moved to McCord's ferry, on the Congaree, on the south
side of which he took post, amidst the hills near the confluence of the Wateree and Congaree.
Greene's camp lay directly opposite, and the fires of the mutual armies were distinctly seen
by each other. The heat of the weather suspended all regular military operations. Two large
rivers intervening secured each from sudden attack, and their toils were confined to operating
in small detachments, for foraging or convoy. In this service, on the American side, Col. Washington
was detached--as soon as the course of Stewart was ascertained--down the country across the
Santee; Lee was sent upward, along the north bank of the Congaree; the latter to operate with
Col. Henderson, then in command of Sumter's brigade, at Fridig's ferry, and the former to strike
at the communication between the enemy and Charleston, and to cooperate with Marion and Mayham,
in covering the lower Santee. Col. Harden, at the same time, with a body of mounted militia,
had it in charge to straiten the enemy upon the Edisto.

The activity of these several parties and their frequent successes, were such that Stewart
was compelled to look for his supplies to the country below him. This necessity caused him
to re-establish and strengthen the post at Dorchester, in order to cover the communication
by Orangeburg; and to place a force at Fairlawn, near the head of the navigation of Cooper
river, from which supplies from Charleston were transported to headquarters over land. As this
route was watched by Marion, Washington and Mayham, the British commander was compelled, in
order to secure the means of communication with the opposite bank of the Congaree and to draw
supplies from thence, to transport boats adapted to the purpose, on wagon-wheels, from Fairlawn
to the Congaree.

Such were the relative positions of the two armies until the 22d of August, when Greene, calling
in all his detachments except those under Marion, Mayham and Harden, broke up his camp at the
High Hills and proceeded to Howell's ferry, on the Congaree, with the intention immediately
to cross it and advance upon Stewart. That officer, on hearing of the movement of the Americans,
fell back upon his reinforcements and convoys, and took up a strong position at the Eutaw Springs.

Meanwhile, Marion disappeared from the Santee on one of those secret expeditions in which his
wonderful celerity and adroit management conducted his men so frequently to success. His present
aim was the Pon-Pon. Col. Harden was at this time in that quarter, and closely pressed by a
superior British force of five hundred men. Detaching a party of mounted militia to the neighborhood
of Dorchester and Monk's Corner, as much to divert the enemy from his own movements as with
any other object, he proceeded with two hundred picked men on his secret expedition.

By a forced march, he crossed the country from St. Stephen's to the Edisto--passing through
both lines of the enemy's communication with Charleston, and reached Harden--a distance of
one hundred miles--in season for his relief. His approach and arrival were totally unsuspected
by the enemy, for whom he prepared an ambush in a swamp near Parker's ferry. A small body of
his swiftest horse were sent out to decoy the British into the snare. A white feather, rather
too conspicuously worn by one of his men in ambush, had nearly defeated his design. Some Tories
passing, discovered this unnecessary plumage, and one of them fired upon the wearer. This led
to an exchange of shots; but Major Frazier, by whom the British were commanded, assuming the
party thus concealed to be that of Harden, whom it was his aim to find, pursued the horsemen
whom Marion had sent out to entice him to the ambuscade. His cavalry was led at full charge
within forty yards of the concealed riflemen. A deadly fire was poured in, under which the
British recoiled; attempting to wheel and charge the swamp, they received a second; and, closely
wedged as their men were upon the narrow causeway over which they came, every shot bore its
warrant. There was no retreating, no penetrating the ambush, and the British cavalry had but
to go forward, along the road to the ferry, thus passing the entire line of the ambuscade.
The corps was most effectually thinned by the time it got beyond rifle reach; and still more
fatal would have been the affray to the advancing infantry of Frazier--a large body, with a
field-piece--but for one of those lamentable deficiencies of materiel, which so frequently
plucked complete success from the grasp of the Americans. The ammunition of our partisan failed
him, and he was compelled to yield the ground to the enemy, who was otherwise wholly in his
power. The British loss was unknown. Twenty-seven dead horses were counted on the field the
day after; the men had all been buried. As Marion's men fired with either a ball or heavy buck-shot,
and as none would aim at horses, the loss of the British must have been very great. Nine days
after, at the battle of Eutaw, they had few cavalry in the field.

But, though the victory was incomplete, Marion had attained his object. He had rescued Harden,
without loss to himself. He had traversed more than two hundred miles of country, through a
region held by the enemy; returned by the same route,--delivered his prisoners to the care
of Mayham,--returned twenty miles below the Eutaw, in order to watch the communication between
that place and Fairlawn--then, at the call of Greene, made a circuit and passed the British
army, so as to reach a position on the south side of the Santee, in the track of Greene's advance;
and all this in the brief compass of six days. Yet, of these movements, which merited and received
the particular thanks of Congress, we are without any data in our records. The complimentary
resolution of Congress fixes the battle at Parker's ferry on the 31st August.

Seventeen miles from Eutaw Springs, at Lauren's plantation, Marion effected a junction with
the commander-in-chief. Greene was pressing forward to a meeting with Stewart. Of this object
the latter seemed to have been profoundly ignorant up to this moment. But the day before, he
knew that Marion was twenty miles below him, and did not conjecture that, by marching the whole
night, he had thrown himself above him to join with Greene. Without this junction he had no
apprehension that the latter, with an inferior force, would venture an attack upon him, in
the strong position which he held. On the afternoon of the 7th September, the army reached
Burdell's tavern on the Congaree road, seven miles from the Eutaws. The force under Greene
amounted to two thousand men, all told. That under General Stewart was probably about the same.
It is estimated to have been two thousand three hundred. These were all disciplined troops,
and a large proportion of the old regiments consisted of native marksmen from the ranks of
the loyalists. In cavalry, Greene had the advantage, but a great portion of his men were militia.
In artillery the two armies were equal. The British had five and the Americans four pieces.

The memorable battle of the Eutaw Springs was fought on the 8th September. At four o'clock
in the morning the Americans moved from their bivouac down to the attack. The day was fair,
but intensely hot; but the combatants at the commencement of the battle were relieved by the
shade of the woods. The South Carolina State troops and Lee's legion formed the advance under
Colonel Henderson. The militia, both of South and North Carolina, moved next, under Marion.
Then followed the regulars under Gen. Sumner; and the rear was closed by Washington's cavalry,
and Kirkwood's Delawares, under Col. Washington. The artillery moved between the columns. The
troops were thus arranged in reference to their order of battle.

Of the approach of the Americans Stewart was wholly ignorant on the evening of the 7th. The
only patrol which had been sent up the Congaree road had been captured during the night, and
Stewart himself says, in excuse, that "the Americans had waylaid the swamps and passes in such
a manner as to cut off every avenue of intelligence." So entirely secure had he felt himself
in his position, which was a strong one, that he had sent out an unarmed party of one hundred
men, in the very direction of Greene's advance, to gather sweet potatoes. This party, called
a rooting party, after advancing about three miles, had pursued a road to the right, which
led to the river plantations. Advised, by two deserters from the North Carolina militia, of
Greene's approach, Stewart dispatched Captain Coffin, with his cavalry, to recall the rooting
party, and to reconnoitre the Americans. Before Coffin could effect either object, he encountered
the American advance, and, in total ignorance of its strength, charged it with a degree of
confidence, which led Greene to imagine that Stewart with his whole army was at hand. Coffin
was easily repulsed; the rooting party, alarmed by the firing, hurried from the woods, and
were all made prisoners. Meanwhile, Stewart, now thoroughly aware of the proximity of his enemy,
pushed forward a detachment of infantry, a mile distant from the Eutaw, with orders to engage
and detain the American troops while he formed his men and prepared for battle. But Greene,
whom the audacity of Coffin had deceived, halted his columns where they stood, and proceeded
to display them. The column of militia formed the first line; the South Carolina militia in
equal divisions on the right and left, and the North Carolinians in the centre. General Marion
commanded the right, General Pickens the left, and Col. Malmedy the centre. Col. Henderson,
with the State troops, including Sumter's brigade, covered the left of this line, and Col.
Lee, with his legion, the right. The column of regulars also displayed in one line. The North
Carolinians, under Gen. Sumner, occupied the right; the Marylanders, under Col. Williams, the
left; the Virginians, under Col. Campbell, the centre. Two pieces of artillery were assigned
to each line. Col. Washington moved in column in the rear, keeping himself in reserve. In this
order, the troops pressed forward slowly, as the country on both sides of the road was in wood,
and prevented much expedition. Moving thus, the first line encountered the advance parties
of Stewart, and drove them before it, until the entire line of the British army, displayed
in order of battle, received, and gave shelter to, the fugitives.

The troops of Stewart were drawn up in one line at about two hundred yards west of the Eutaw
Springs; the Buffs on the right, Cruger's corps in the centre, and the 63d and 64th on the
left. Major Marjoribanks, with three hundred of his best troops, was strongly posted, so as
to flank the Buffs, under shelter of a thick wood on the Eutaw Creek, which covered the right
of the whole line; the left was, in military 'parlance', 'in air'--resting in the wood, and
supported by Coffin's cavalry--reduced to a very small number--and a respectable detachment
of infantry. His ground was altogether in wood, but, at a small distance, in the rear of his
line, was an open field, on the edge of which stood a strong brick dwelling, with offices,
out-houses, and a palisadoed garden, in all of which a stout resistance might be made. On this
brick house, Stewart had already cast his eyes, as the means of saving his army in any 'dernier'
necessity. The house was of two stories, and abundantly strong to resist small arms. Its windows
commanded all the open space around. Major Sheridan was ordered to throw himself into it, with
his command, in case of an unfavorable issue to the fight; and in this position to overawe
the Americans, and cover the army. Feeble in cavalry, in which the Americans were strong, there
was no other means for retreat and support in the event of a capital misfortune.

The American approach was from the west. The first line, consisting wholly of militia, went
into action, and continued in it with a coolness and stubbornness which, says Greene, "would
have graced the veterans of the great king of Prussia." Such conduct was almost invariable
on their part, wherever Marion or Pickens commanded. Steadily and without faltering, they advanced
into the hottest of the enemy's fire, with shouts and exhortations, which were not lessened
by the continual fall of their comrades around them. Their line was all the while receiving
the fire of double their number--they were opposed to the entire line of the British. The carnage
was severe, and very equal on both sides. The two pieces of artillery were at length disabled,
and after exchanging seventeen rounds with the enemy, the militia began to falter. Gen. Sumner
was ordered up to their support, with the North Carolina Continentals. With the advance of
Sumner, Stewart brought into line on his left, the infantry of his reserve, and the battle,
between fresh troops on both sides, raged with renewed fury. From the commencement of the action,
the infantry of the American covering parties, right and left, had been steadily engaged. The
State troops, under Henderson, had suffered greatly. The American left, which they flanked,
falling far short of the British right in length, they were exposed to the oblique fire of
a large proportion of the British left, and particularly of the battalion commanded by Marjoribanks.
Henderson himself was disabled, and his men, denied to charge the enemy under whose fire they
were suffering--for they were necessary to the safety of the artillery and militia--were subjected
to a trial of their constancy, which very few soldiers, whatever may have been their training,
would have borne so well.

Meanwhile, the brigade of Sumner recoiled from the fire of the greater numbers opposed to them
in front. At this sight, the exultation of the British Left hurried them forward, assured of
certain victory. Their line became deranged, and the American general, promptly availing himself
of the opportunity, issued his command to Col. Williams, who had in charge the remaining portion
of his second line, to "advance, and sweep the field with his bayonets." The two battalions
obeyed the order with a shout. The Virginians, when within forty yards of the enemy, poured
in a destructive fire, and the whole second line with trailed arms pressed on to the charge.
The advanced left of the British recoiled, and, just at this juncture, the legion infantry
delivered an enfilading fire, which threw them into irretrievable disorder. The British centre,
pressed upon by the fugitives, began to give way from left to right, and the fire of the Marylanders,
poured in at the proper moment, completed their disaster. Their whole front yielded, and the
shouts of the Americans declared their exultation, as at a victory already won. Unquestionably,
the day was theirs. The enemy had fled from the battle. But a new one was to begin, in which
victory, at present so secure, was taken from their grasp. In the effort to prevent the enemy
from rallying, and to cut him off from the brick dwelling, into which Sheridan, obeying the
commands of Stewart, had thrown himself as soon as the necessity became apparent, the greatest
loss of the Americans was sustained. Marjoribanks still held his ground, with his entire battalion,
in the thick woods which skirted Eutaw Creek, and so well covered was he that, in an attempt
to penetrate with his cavalry, Col. Washington became entangled in the thicket, and fell into
the hands of the enemy, while his men suffered severely from their fire, and his troop was
routed. A second time were they brought to the charge, but with no better success than before.
Marjoribanks still maintained his position, watching the moment when to emerge from the thicket
with the best prospect of safety to himself, and hurt to the Americans. He was soon to have
an opportunity.

The British line had yielded and broken before the American bayonet. The latter pressed closely
upon their heels, made many prisoners, and might have cut them off, and, by isolating Marjoribanks,
forced him to surrender, but for one of those occurrences which so frequently in battle change
the fortunes of the day. The course of the fugitives led them directly through the British
encampment. There everything was given up for lost. The tents were all standing, the commissaries
had abandoned their stores, and the numerous retainers of the army were already in full flight
for Charleston. When the pursuing Americans penetrated the encampment, they lost sight of the
fugitives in the contemplation of various objects of temptation which, to a half-naked and
half-starved soldiery, were irresistible. The pursuit was forborne; the Americans fastened
upon the liquors and refreshments scattered among the tents; and the whole army, with the exception
of one or two corps, then fell into confusion. Yet, so closely had the British been pursued
to the shelter of the house, and so narrow was their escape, that some of the Americans had
nearly obtained entrance with them. It was only by shutting the door against some of their
own officers, that they made it secure against the enemy; and in retiring from the house, now
a citadel, the Americans only found safety by interposing the bodies of the officers, thus
made captive at the entrance, between themselves and the fire from the windows. One ludicrous
incident is told of Major Barry, who was taken in this manner, and made use of as a shield
by Lieut. Manning, as he retreated from before the house, which otherwise he could not have
left in safety. Without struggling or making the slightest effort for his extrication, Barry
only enumerated his own titles with a profound solemnity. "Sir, I am Henry Barry, Deputy Adjutant
General of the British army, Secretary to the Commandant of Charleston, Captain in the 52d
regiment," &c. "Enough, enough, sir," answered Manning. "You are just the man I was looking
for. Fear nothing: you shall SCREEN ME from danger, and I shall take special care of you."
Manning escaped in safety with his prisoner. But there were many brave officers far less fortunate.
Many were destined to perish in the miserable after struggle, who had gone gloriously through
the greater dangers of the fight. The British tents had done what the British arms had failed
to do. Victory was lost to the Americans. Scattered throughout the encampment, the soldiers
became utterly unmanageable. The enemy, meanwhile, had partially recovered from their panic.
The party of Sheridan were in possession of the house. Another party held possession of the
palisaded garden. Coffin was active with his remnant of cavalry, and Marjoribanks still held
a formidable position in the thicket on Eutaw Creek. From the upper windows of the house, the
musketry of Sheridan traversed the encampment, which the Americans now trembled to leave, lest
they should suffer from their fire. Every head that emerged from a tent was a mark for their
bullets. Aware, by this time, of the extent of his misfortune, Greene ordered a retreat, which
Hampton's cavalry was commanded to cover. In the execution of this duty Hampton encountered
the British cavalry. A sharp action ensued; the latter fled, and in the ardor of pursuit, the
American horse approached so near to the position of Marjoribanks as to receive a murderous
fire, which prostrated one-third of their number and scattered the rest. Before they could
again be brought together, Marjoribanks, seizing upon the chance afforded by a temporary clearing
of the field, emerged from the wood, at a moment which enabled him to put a successful finish
to the labors of the day. Two six-pounders, which had been abandoned by the British, had been
turned upon the house by the Americans; but in their eagerness they had brought the pieces
within the range of fire from the windows of the house. The artillerists had been shot down;
and, in the absence of the American cavalry, Marjoribanks was enabled to recover them. Wheeling
them under the walls of the house, he took a contiguous position, his own being almost the
only portion of the British army still in a condition to renew the action. The Americans yielded
the ground about the house, but were promptly rallied in the skirts of the wood. The British
were too much crippled to pursue; and the respite was gladly seized upon by the Americans to
plunge headlong into the neighboring ponds, to cool the heat and satisfy the intense thirst
occasioned by such efforts under the burning sun of a Carolina September. Both sides claimed
the victory, and with equal reason. In the first part of the day it was clearly with the Americans.
They had driven the enemy from the field, in panic and with great loss. They were in possession
of five hundred prisoners, nearly all of whom they retained. They had taken two out of the
five pieces of artillery which the British had brought into the action; and, something more
to boast, considering the proverbial renown of the British with this weapon, it was at the
point of the bayonet that they had swept the enemy from the ground. The British took shelter
in a fortress from which the Americans were repulsed. It is of no consequence to assert that
the latter might have taken it. They might--it was in their power to have done so,--but they
did not; and the promptitude with which the British availed themselves of this security, entitles
them to the merit which they claim. We are constrained to think that the business of the field
was strangely blundered by the Americans at the sequel. This may have arisen from the carnage
made at this period among their officers, particularly in their persevering, but futile endeavors,
to extricate the soldiers from their tents. Under cover of a contiguous barn, the artillery
presented the means of forcing the building and reducing the garrison to submission. The attempts
made at this object, by this arm of the Americans, were rash, badly counselled, and exposed
to danger without adequate protection. The British were saved by this error, by the luxuries
contained within their tents, by the spirited behavior of Coffin, and the cool and steady valor
of Marjoribanks.

That the results of victory lay with the Americans, was shown by the events of the ensuing
day. Leaving his dead unburied, seventy of his wounded to the enemy, breaking up a thousand
stand of arms, and destroying his stores, General Stewart commenced a precipitate retreat towards
Fairlawn. The British power in Carolina was completely prostrated by this battle. Five hundred
prisoners fell into the hands of the Americans, and it was Greene's purpose to have renewed
the fight on the next day; but the flight of Stewart anticipated and baffled his intentions.
He commenced pursuit, and detached Marion and Lee, by a circuitous route, to gain the enemy's
front, and interpose themselves between him and the post at Fairlawn, from which Major M'Arthur
had been summoned, with five hundred men, to cover the retreat. But this plan was unsuccessful.
So precipitate was the march of Stewart, and so happily concerted the movements of the two
British officers, that they effected a junction before Marion and Lee could reach Ferguson's
Swamp, their place of destination. The cavalry of the enemy's rear-guard fell into the hands
of the Americans, but Stewart was beyond pursuit. In this flight, amongst others, the British
lost the brave Major Marjoribanks, who died of a fever, and was buried on the road. While they
admitted a loss, in killed, wounded, and missing, of half the number brought into the field,
that of the Americans was nearly equally severe, and fell with particular severity upon the
officers. Sixty-one of these were killed or wounded; twenty-one died upon the field. The returns
exhibit a loss of one hundred and fourteen rank and file killed, three hundred wounded, and
forty missing--an aggregate exceeding a fourth of all who marched into battle. Many of Marion's
men were killed, though not so many as he lost in the affair of Quinby. Among his officers,
Capt. John Simons, of Pedee, was slain, and Col. Hugh Horry wounded.

Greene retired to the high hills of Santee, while Marion proceeded to encamp at Payne's plantation,
on Santee river swamp. This was one of his favorite places of retreat. Here, in the depths
of a cane-brake, within a quarter of a mile from the Santee, he made himself a clearing, "much,"
says Judge James, "to his liking," and, with the canes, thatched the rude huts of his men.
The high land was skirted by lakes, which rendered the approach difficult; and here, as in
perfect security, he found forage for his horses, and provisions in abundance for his men.
Such a place of encampment, at such a season, would hardly commend itself now to the citizen
of Carolina. The modes and objects of culture, and probably the climate, have undergone a change.
The time was autumn, the most sickly period of our year; and, to sleep in such a region now,
even for a single night, would be considered certain death to the white man. It does not seem,
at that period, that much apprehension of malaria was felt.*

     * Judge James refers to this place as Peyre's, not Payne's,
     plantation, and notes "It appears now there was very little
     sickness at that day." In a footnote, he goes on to say:
     "Very soon after the revolutionary war, this scene was
     entirely changed.  Planters, in clearing their land, had
     rolled logs and other rubbish from their fields, into the
     lakes and creeks leading from the river, and many threw
     trees into it to get them quickly out of the way.... The
     waters below being obstructed, they flooded the low grounds.
  ..." This would explain the early absence, and later
     presence, of malaria, as the mosquitoes necessary for
     transmitting it would thrive in the still waters created by
     the planters.--A. L., 1996.--

But Marion did not linger long in any one situation. Hearing that the British were about to
send their wounded from Fairlawn to Charleston, his restless enterprise prompted him to aim
at the capture of the detachment. Moving rapidly by night, he threw himself below the former
place, on the opposite bank of the river, and would certainly have intercepted them, but for
a slave of one of the plantations, who, hastening to the British camp, reported his proximity.
The arrival of a superior force compelled him to steal away with a caution like that which
marked his approach.

The command of the British army, in consequence of a wound received by General Stewart at Eutaw,
had devolved on Major Doyle. This army, recruited by the force of M'Arthur, was still, after
all its losses, fully two thousand men. That of Greene, reduced by wounds and sickness, could
not muster one thousand fit for duty. His cavalry had been greatly thinned by the late battle,
and it was not until the cavalry of Sumter's brigade could be brought together, with Marion's
mounted infantry, and the horse of Horry and Mayham, that the superiority of the American general
could be restored. Doyle had taken post at Fludd's plantation, three miles above Nelson's Ferry,
on the Santee, with the main body of the British; M'Arthur held the post at Fairlawn, with
a detachment of three hundred. Doyle, with some instinctive notion that his time was short,
busied himself in a career of plunder which threatened to strip the plantations south of the
Santee and Congaree, and westward to the Edisto, not only of every negro which they contained,
but of all other kinds of property. Over this region, the feebleness of the American forces,
and their present deficiency in cavalry, gave him almost entire control. The opposite banks
were guarded by Marion and Hampton, who afforded protection to everything that could be moved
across, and presented themselves at every point to the enemy, whenever he attempted the passage
of the river. Marion was at this time an invalid, but, however much he might need, he asked
for no repose or exemption from service when the enemy was in the field. His force was also
reduced by sickness. Col. Mayham alone had no less than one hundred men unfit for duty. Other
circumstances kept the militia from coming to the summons of Marion. Those on the borders of
North Carolina were detained to meet and suppress a rising of the loyalists of that State under
Hector M'Neil, and even those in his camp were unprovided with ammunition. Early in October,
we find him writing pressingly to General Greene and Governor Rutledge for a supply. Rutledge
answers, on the 10th of that month, "I wish to God it was in my power to send you ammunition
instantly, but it is not." Col. Otho Williams, in the temporary absence of Greene, writes,
in answer: "Our stock of ammunition is quite exhausted--we have not an ounce of powder, or
a cartridge, in store." And yet, it was under similar deficiencies that the men of Marion had
labored from the beginning; and half the time had they gone into battle with less than three
rounds of powder to a man. Williams further writes: "His Excellency, Governor Rutledge, has
intimated that you meditate an expedition over the Santee. In making your determination, if
it is not settled, permit me to recommend to your consideration, that THE GENERAL DEPENDS UPON
YOU ENTIRELY FOR INTELLIGENCE OF THE ENEMY'S MOTIONS." The activity of our partisan, his elasticity
of character, his independence of resources, and usefulness to others, are all to be gathered
from these two extracts.

Late in September of this year, Governor Rutledge issued a proclamation, requiring that the
disaffected should come in within thirty days, and perform a six months tour of duty. The condition
of pardon for all previous offences was attached to this requisition. The idea of this proclamation
was borrowed from similar ones of the British generals, when they first overran the country.
The object was to secure those persons, of whom there were numbers, who, in the declining fortunes
of the British, were not unwilling to turn upon and rend their old friends, no longer capable
of protecting or providing for them. The measure was of doubtful policy, since it appealed
to the basest feelings of humanity. Its effects were considerable, however; numbers presented
themselves in the ranks of Marion, showing finely in contrast with his ancient and half-naked
veterans. "Their new white feathers," says James, "fine coats, new saddles and bridles, and
FAMISHED horses, showed that they had lately been in the British garrison." Their appearance,
not to speak of their previous career, naturally inspired distrust in the minds of those whose
scars and nakedness were the proofs of their virtue; and another measure, which was adopted
about this time, had the further effect of impairing the value of that efficient brigade upon
which Marion had been accustomed to rely. In order to promote the growth of the new regiments,
it was permitted to all such persons as could hire a substitute, to claim exemption from military
duty. This was a temptation too great to be resisted by those old soldiers who had served from
the first, who had left their families in wretched lodgings, in poverty and distress, and from
whose immediate neighborhood the presence of the war was withdrawn. The six months men were
easily bought up to fill their places. The result was very injurious to the 'morale' of the
brigade, and the evil effects of the measure were soon felt in the imperfect subordination,
the deficient firmness, and the unprincipled character of the new recruits. It was productive
also of differences between two of Marion's best officers, Horry and Mayham, which wrought
evil consequences to the country. Being commissioned on the same day as colonels of the new
regiments, they quarrelled about precedency. The fruits of this difference will be seen hereafter.

As the winter set in, the army began to recruit, and the militia to embody under their several
commanders. Greene was joined by Cols. Shelby and Sevier, with five hundred mountaineers, and
these, with Horry and Mayham, were ordered to place themselves under Marion, to operate in
the country between the Santee and Charleston. Sumter, at the same time, with a brigade of
State troops and some companies of militia, was ordered to take post at Orangeburg, to cover
the country from the inroads of the loyalists from Charleston. Pickens, in the meantime, with
his regiments, traversed the border country, keeping in awe the Indians, and suppressing the
predatory movements of the Tories. About the 1st November, the separate commands of Marion
and Sumter crossed the rivers, and advanced in the direction of the enemy. The latter soon
fell in with Cunningham's loyalists in force, and found it prudent to fall back. But he kept
Cunningham in check with a body of men fully equal to his own. Marion, also, was compelled
to come to a halt, by encountering General Stewart, posted at Wantoot, with nearly two thousand
men. Stewart was at this time following up the peculiar labors which had been undertaken by
Major Doyle when in temporary charge of the army. He was collecting slaves and laying in provisions,
preparing for siege in, and subsequent flight from, Charleston. The fall of Cornwallis, at
Yorktown, was known in the American camp on the 9th of November. It had been anticipated in
the British some time before. With the fate of that commander, virtually terminated the British
hope of re-conquering the country, and the proceedings of their officers in the south, as elsewhere,
looked forward to the approaching necessity of flight. It was only becoming that they should
spoil the Egyptians previous to their departure.

The capture of Cornwallis produced a jubilee in the American camp. In that of Marion the ladies
of Santee were permitted to partake. He gave them a fete--we are not told what were the refreshments--at
the house of Mr. John Cantey. "The General," says James, "was not very susceptible of the gentler
emotions; he had his friends, and was kind to his inferiors, but his mind was principally absorbed
by the love of country;" and the Judge rather insinuates that the pleasure he felt on this
occasion arose more from the fall of Cornwallis than from the presence of the ladies.

On the same day, the 9th October,* he received the thanks of Congress for "his wise, decided,
and gallant conduct, in defending the liberties of his country, and particularly for his prudent
and intrepid attack on a body of British troops on the 31st August last; and for the distinguished
part he took in the battle of the 8th September."

     * This date is given in both Simms's and James's accounts--
     both say that Marion received the thanks of Congress on the
     9th October, while celebrating the defeat of Cornwallis.
     But Cornwallis was defeated on the 19th of that month.  This
     date should probably be the 9th November, and is most likely
     a repetition of James's error.--A. L., 1996.--

On the 18th November, the camp of the Hills was broken up, and General Greene advanced with
his army to the Four Holes, on the Edisto, in full confidence that the force under Marion would
be adequate to keep General Stewart in check. But, by the 25th of the same month, our partisan
was abandoned by all the mountaineers under Shelby and Sevier, a force of five hundred men.
This was after a three weeks' service. This miserable defection was ascribed to the withdrawal
of Shelby from the army on leave of absence. But, in all probability, it was due to their impatience
of the wary sort of warfare which it was found necessary to pursue. The service was not sufficiently
active for their habits. Marion had been warned that he must keep them actively employed, but
all his efforts to do so had been unsuccessful. He had approached Stewart at Wantoot, but,
though the force of the latter was nominally far superior to that of the partisan, he could
not be drawn out of his encampment. This was a subject of equal surprise and chagrin to Marion.
Subsequently, the reason of this timidity on the part of the British general was discovered.
A return, found on an orderly-sergeant who fell into Marion's hands, showed that, out of two
thousand two hundred and seventy-two men, Stewart had nine hundred and twenty-eight on the
sick list. The only services in which the mountaineers were employed, while with Marion, were
in attacks on the post at Fairlawn, and the redoubts at Wappetaw; and these required detachments
only. The movement against the latter was instantly successful--the enemy abandoned it on the
approach of the Americans. But the post at Fairlawn was of more value, in better condition
of defence, a convenient depot, and, being in the rear of the British army, then stationed
at Wantoot, promised a stout resistance. The American detachment against this place was led
by Mayham. In passing the post at Wantoot, he was ordered to show himself, and, if possible,
to decoy the British cavalry into the field. The manoeuvre did not succeed, but it brought
out a strong detachment, which followed close upon his heels, and required that what he should
undertake should be done quickly. On approaching Fairlawn, he found everything prepared for
defence. He lost no time in making his advances. A part of his riflemen were dismounted, and,
acting as infantry, approached the abbatis, while his cavalry advanced boldly and demanded
a surrender. The place, with all its sick, three hundred stand of arms, and eighty convalescents,
was yielded at discretion.

With these small affairs ended the service of the mountaineers in Marion's army. They retired
to their native hills, leaving Marion and Greene enmeshed in difficulties. It was on the strength
of this force, chiefly, that the latter had descended from the hills, and he was now unable
to recede. Marion, too, relying upon their support, had crossed the Santee and placed himself
in close proximity on the right of the enemy. But the feebleness and timidity of Stewart, and
his ignorance of the state of affairs in Marion's camp, saved these generals from the necessity
of a retreat which would have been equally full of danger and humiliation. The movement of
Greene across the Congaree induced him to draw towards Charleston, and Marion was left in safety.
The timidity shown by the enemy encouraged Greene, and, dispatching a select party of horse
under Wade Hampton, he followed hard upon their steps with as many chosen infantry. His purpose
was the surprise of Dorchester. Stewart was descending to the city by another route. Hampton's
advance fell in with a reconnoitring party of fifty men, and suffered few to escape; and though
Greene did not succeed in surprising the post at Dorchester, his approach had the effect of
producing its abandonment. During the night, the garrison destroyed everything, threw their
cannon into the river, and retreated to Charleston. Greene did not venture to pursue, as the
enemy's infantry exceeded five hundred men. Meanwhile, Stewart had hurried on by Goose Creek
Bridge, and, joining the fugitives from Dorchester, halted at the Quarter House, and prepared
to encounter the whole army of Greene, which, in their panic, was supposed to be upon their
heels. Such was the alarm in Charleston that General Leslie, who now succeeded Stewart, proceeded
to embody the slaves, in arms, for the defence of that place,--a measure which was soon repented
of, and almost as soon abandoned.

Greene fell back upon his main army, which had now advanced to Saunders' plantation on the
Round O., while Marion, pressing nearer to Charleston, kept the right of the enemy in check.
The movements of our partisan were left to his own discretion. Greene, in all cases, not only
suffers the judgment of the former to determine for himself his course, giving him a thoroughly
independent command, but he betrays the most respectful desire on frequent occasions to have
his opinion. Thus, on the 5th of November, he writes to him:--"Gen. Sumter has orders to take
post at Orangeburgh, to prevent the Tories in that quarter from conveying supplies to town,
and his advanced parties will penetrate as low as Dorchester; therefore, you may act in conjunction
with him, or employ your troops on the enemy's left, as you may find from information they
can be best employed. Please to give me your opinion on which side they can be most useful."
On the 15th of the same month, he writes again: "You are at liberty to act as you think advisedly.
I have no particular instructions to give you, and only wish you to avoid surprise." The latter
caution to a soldier of Marion's character and prudence was scarcely necessary, but he was
so near the enemy, and the latter in such superior force, that the suggestion, on the part
of Greene, was only natural. Where Greene himself lay, two rivers ran between his army and
that of the British. Without ammunition himself, and informed of reinforcements which the enemy
had received, to preserve a respectful distance between them, was, on the part of the American
commander, only a becoming caution. It was now December, and the troops, both of Greene and
Marion, were without the necessary clothing. They had neither cloaks nor blankets. On the 14th
of that month, Greene received a supply of ammunition, ALL of which he sent to Marion--no small
proof of the confidence which he felt that, in such hands, it would not be thrown away.

Thus closed the campaign of 1781. By manoeuvre, and a successful combination of events, the
British troops had been driven down the country and restrained within the narrow neck of land
contiguous to Charleston. The encampment of the main army continued at the Round O. Marion
was at Watboo on Cooper river, watching the enemy's right; Sumter held Orangeburg and the bridge
at Four Holes; Hampton with fifty State cavalry kept open the communication between Marion
and the commander-in-chief; Cols. Harden and Wilkinson watched the enemy's movements on the
south between Charleston and Savannah: and Col. Lee, posted in advance, with a light detachment,
kept him from prying into the real weakness of the American army. In the ignorance of the British
general, lay the security of the American; for, at this particular time, there were not eight
hundred men at Greene's headquarters. A glance at any map of South Carolina will show the judgment
with which these several posts were taken, at once for easy cooperation of the Americans, as
for the control of all the country above the positions actually held by the British. The territory
of the State, with the exception of that neck of land which lies twelve or fifteen miles up
from Charleston, between the approaching rivers Ashley and Cooper, had all been recovered from
the enemy. But the necessities of the Americans, the want of military 'materiel', the thinness
of the regiments, and the increasing strength of the British, derived from foreign troops and
accessions from other posts in America, left it doubtful, under existing circumstances, whether
it could be long retained. But this misgiving was not allowed to prejudice or impair the popular
hope, resulting from the apparent successes of their arms; and one of the modes adopted for
contributing to this conviction was the formal restoration of the native civil authority.

While the army of Greene lay at Round O., considerable alarm was excited in the American camp
by tidings of large reinforcements made to the British strength in Charleston. General Leslie
was now in command of the latter. The contraction of the American military 'cordon' had very
greatly straitened the resources and comforts of the British general. The numerous refugees
who had taken shelter in the city with their families, the great accumulation of horses within
the lines, and the vigilant watch which was maintained over the islands and the neck by the
American light detachments, soon contributed to lessen the stock of provisions in the capital,
and to cut off its supplies. One consequence of this condition was to compel Leslie to put
two hundred of his horses to death; while, by all other possible means, he collected his provisions
from the surrounding country. Considerable parties were kept upon the alert for this object,
and, to facilitate the movements of these parties, strong posts were established at Haddrel's
Point and Hobcaw. The situation of these posts, on the extremities of tongues of land, to which
assistance might easily be conveyed by water, and from which retreat, to an attacking enemy,
was difficult, rendered them comparatively safe, for the present, against the Americans. But
the situation of Leslie was one of uncomfortable constraint, and it was natural that he should
avail himself of any prospect which might promise him relief. It was readily believed, therefore,
in the American camp, that, with the acquisition of new strength, by the arrival of reinforcements
from abroad, Leslie would seek to break through the cordon put around him. The rumor of his
approach, in strength, caused Greene to issue his orders to Marion to repair to headquarters
with all the force he could draw after him. Our partisan promptly obeyed the summons; but,
on his way to join with Greene, he left a detachment of mounted infantry in the neighborhood
of Monk's Corner, to watch the motions of the enemy.

But Leslie's purpose was mistaken. His strength had been exaggerated. He had no designs upon
the camp of Greene, being no doubt quite as ignorant of his weakness as the latter was of the
British strength. But the detachment left by Marion near Monk's Corner caught the attention
of the enemy, and, in the absence of the partisan, it was thought accessible to a proper attempt
from Charleston. In all the movements of the British, it is very evident that they attached
no small importance to the presence of this chief. A detachment of three hundred men, cavalry
and infantry, was transported by water to the north bank of the Wando river. This body moved
with equal secrecy and celerity. But they were disappointed in their aim. Marion had returned
from the Continental camp to his own. The storm which threatened the former was overblown,
and he was in season to avert that by which the latter was threatened. His force was scarcely
equal to that of the enemy. He nevertheless resolved upon attacking them. In order to keep
them in play, while he advanced with his main body, Cols. Richardson and Scriven, with a part
of Mayham's horse, were dispatched with orders to throw themselves in front of the British,
and engage them until he could come up. This order was gallantly executed. They encountered
the enemy's advance near the muster-house of St. Thomas, charged them vigorously, and succeeded
in putting them to flight, with some slaughter. Capt. Campbell, of the British, and several
others, were killed. But the pursuit was urged too far. The cavalry of Mayham, by which this
success had been obtained, was of new organization. Their training had been partial only. It
was seen that, though they drove the British horse before them, their own charge was marked
by disorder. Hurried forward by success, they rushed into the jaws of danger, and were only
brought to their senses by an encounter with the whole of the British infantry. A volley from
this body drove them back in confusion, while the cavalry, which had been flying before them,
encouraged by the presence of the infantry, rallied upon the steps of the pursuers, and drove
them in turn. They suffered severely, wedged upon a narrow causeway, which gave them as little
room for escape as evolution. Twenty-two fell upon the spot, by the fire of the infantry. The
rest were rallied when sufficiently far from the more formidable enemy, and, turning upon the
British cavalry, once more put them to flight. But the event left Marion too weak to press
the encounter. He contented himself with watching the motions of the British, and they were
sufficiently respectful not to press him to any less pacific performance. They were satisfied
to pursue their march, and, gathering a few head of cattle, to retire to Haddrell's, foregoing
the more important object of their incursion. The field clear, Marion left his brigade in charge
of Horry, and repaired to Jacksonborough, to attend the Assembly, to which he had been elected
a member from St. John, Berkeley, the same parish which he represented in the Provincial Congress
at the beginning of the war. This was early in the year 1782. The Legislature met at Jacksonborough,
a little village on the Edisto or Pon-Pon river, on the 18th January of this year. This position,
almost within striking distance of the British army at Charleston, was chosen with particular
reference to the moral influence which the boldness of such a choice would be likely to have
upon the people, and the confidence which it seemed to declare in the ability of the American
army to render the place secure. To make it so, Greene moved his troops across the Edisto,
and took post at Skirving's plantation, six miles in advance of Jacksonborough, and on the
road which leads to Charleston. There was yet another step necessary to this object. The British,
in addition to Charleston and the "Neck", held possession of two islands, James and John, which
belong to that inner chain of isles which stretches along the coast from Charleston to Savannah,
separated from the main by creeks and marshes, and from one another by the estuaries of rivers,
sounds, or inlets. On John's Island, which is fertile, extensive, and secure, the enemy held
a very respectable force under Col. Craig. Jacksonborough was within striking distance of this
force. It could be approached by boats or galleys, in a single tide. It was equally assailable
from this point by land. As a matter of precaution, it was considered necessary to disperse
this force, and it was soon ascertained, not only that the island was accessible, but that
the enemy, relying upon the protection of his armed galleys, was unapprehensive of attack.
The attempt was entrusted to Cols. Lee and Laurens, who, with separate parties, were to reach
the point of destination by different routes. One of the parties lost the road, and failed
to cooperate with the other. The movement was only partially successful. A second was designed,
and succeeded. The galleys were driven from their station by the artillery, and Laurens penetrated
to Craig's encampment. But the latter had already abandoned it. A few stragglers fell into
the hands of the Americans, but nothing more. The preceding attempt had just sufficed to convince
Craig of the insecurity of the place, and he had taken timely precautions against suffering
from a repetition of the attempt.

The Legislature assembled according to appointment. The proclamation of the Governor, to whom,
from the beginning of the war, had been accorded almost dictatorial powers, precluded from
election and suffrage all persons who had taken British protections; and, as those who were
true to the State had been very generally active in the ranks of her military, it followed,
as a matter of course, that a great proportion of the members were military men. Among these
were Sumter and Marion. The former, about this time, yielded his commission to the authorities,
on account of some slight or injustice to which he had been subjected, and left the army when
he took his seat in the Assembly. General Henderson succeeded to his command. The Jacksonborough
Assembly was highly distinguished, as well for its talent as for its worth and patriotism.
Its character was, perhaps, rather military than civil. Constituting as they did, in a slave
community, a sort of feudal aristocracy, and accustomed, as, for so long a time they had been,
to the use of the weapons of war, its members wore the deportment of so many armed barons,
gathered together quite as much for action as resolve. It was not only unavoidable, but highly
important at this juncture, that such should be the character of this body. Who could so well
determine what were the necessities of the country--what the exigencies of the people--what
the local resources and remedies--as those who had fought its battles, traversed every acre
of its soil, and represented its interests and maintained its rights when there was no civil
authority? What legislators so likely to wield the popular will, as men who, like Marion and
Sumter, had become its rallying leaders--whom the people had been accustomed to obey and follow,
and by whom they had been protected. It was equally important that the legislation should come
from such sources, when we consider the effect upon the enemy, still having a foothold in the
State. They might reasonably apprehend that the laws springing from such a body would be marked
by a stern directness and decision of purpose which would leave nothing to be hoped by disaffection
or hostility; and their proceedings did not disappoint the expectations of friend or foe.

The measures of this Assembly were marked by equal prudence and resolve. They passed a new
act respecting the militia, and one for raising the State quota of Continental troops. One
of their measures has been questioned as unwise and impolitic--that, namely, for amercing and
confiscating the estates of certain of the loyalists, and for banishing the most obnoxious
among them. Something, certainly, is to be said in favor of this act. If vindictive, it seems
to have been necessary. It must be remembered that, in consequence of a previous proclamation
of the Governor, none but the most implacable and virulent of the Tories were liable to its
operation--none but those who had rejected very liberal offers of indulgence and conciliation.
This proclamation had opened the door to reconciliation with the State, on very easy terms
to the offenders. It gave them timely warning to come in, enrol themselves in the American
ranks, and thus assure themselves of that protection and safety which they had well forfeited.
Their neglect or refusal to accept this proffer of mercy, properly incurred the penalties of
contumacy. These penalties could be no other than confiscation of property and banishment of
person. Reasons of policy, if not of absolute necessity, seemed to enforce these penalties.
How was the war to be carried on? Marion's men, for example, received no pay, no food, no clothing.
They had borne the dangers and the toils of war, not only without pay, but without the hope
of it. They had done more--they had yielded up their private fortunes to the cause. They had
seen their plantations stripped by the enemy, of negroes, horses, cattle, provisions, plate--everything,
in short, which could tempt the appetite of cupidity; and this, too, with the knowledge, not
only that numerous loyalists had been secured in their own possessions, but had been rewarded
out of theirs. The proposed measure seemed but a natural and necessary compliance with popular
requisition. Besides, the war was yet to be carried on. How was this to be done? How long was
it yet to last? What was to be its limit? Who could predict? Congress was without money--the
State without means. For a space of three years, South Carolina had not only supported the
war within, but beyond her own borders. Georgia was utterly destitute, and was indebted to
South Carolina for eighteen months for her subsistence; and North Carolina, in the portions
contiguous to South Carolina, was equally poor and disaffected. The Whigs were utterly impoverished
by their own wants and the ravages of the enemy. They had nothing more to give. Patriotism
could now bestow little but its blood. It was with an obvious propriety resolved, by the Jacksonborough
Assembly, that those who had proved false to the country should be made to suffer in like degree
with those who had been true, and who were still suffering in her defence. As a measure of
prolonged policy--contemplated beyond the emergency--there may be objections to the Confiscation
Act; but the necessities of the time seemed to demand it, and it will be difficult for any
judgment, having before it all the particulars of the cruel civil war through which the country
had gone--not to speak of the army, and the present and pressing necessity for maintaining
it--to arrive at any other conclusion, or to censure the brave men who urged and advocated
the measure. The proceeding seems perfectly defensible on general principles, though in particular
instances--as in the application of all general principles--it may have been productive of
injury. The estates of the loyalists, by this measure, were seized upon as a means for building
up the credit of the State, supplying it with the necessary funds for maintaining order as
well as war, and for requiting and supporting that army which was still required to bleed in
its defence.

What part was taken in this act by Marion, is not known. Though kind and indulgent in his nature,
he was stern and resolute in war. We have no reason to suppose that he entertained any scruples
about a proceeding, the necessity of which, at the time, seems to have been beyond all dispute.

The absence of our partisan from his brigade, was almost fatal to it. He left it with reluctance,
and only with the conviction that his presence in the Senate was important to the interests
equally of the army and the country. Indeed, without him there would not have been a quorum.
There were only thirteen Senators present. He was interested, besides, in the passage of the
new Militia Act, and in one designed to raise the State quota of Continental troops. These
were sufficient to compel his presence. But he remained with reluctance. His letters from Jacksonborough
betray the most constant anxiety about his brigade. He had yielded it to Horry with the most
earnest exhortations to caution. By his orders, the latter, the more completely to ensure its
safety, removed to a position on the north side of Wambaw, a creek emptying into the Santee.
Here, in an angle formed by the two roads which pass from Lenud's Ferry road to Horry's plantation,
about a quarter of a mile from the bridge, Horry occupied a post which caution might have rendered
safe. In his rear was a wood. His newly raised regiment, not half complete, lay at Durant's
plantation, about a mile above, under the command of Major Benson. Horry does not seem to have
been remiss in his duties, but about this time he fell sick, and, for some time before, he
had been, and still was, somewhat wilful. There was an unhappy dispute between himself and
Col. Mayham, touching rank and precedence. The latter refused to be commanded by the former,
claiming to be equal in commission, and, when Marion went to Jacksonborough, separated his
corps from the brigade, posted them higher up the river, and, being a member of the Legislature,
proceeded to Jacksonborough also. Greene was not unwilling, in the present juncture of affairs,
that the native officers should be present at the deliberations of this body. The civil objects
were just then even more important than the military.

The contumacy of Mayham was a subject of the most earnest discussion. Both Marion and Greene
decided against him; yet both were reluctant to offend him, as they knew his value as a cavalry
officer. Mayham seems to have acted under some erroneous impressions of the independence of
a legionary brigade, as he claimed his to be. He also complained of the free use which Marion
made of his cavalry, and the severe duties he was required to perform. To this, Greene replies:
"You are to consider how extensive the country he has to guard, and how much he depends upon
your corps. This will account for the hard service you have been put to. The general is a good
man, and when you consider his difficulties, and make just allowances, perhaps you will have
little to complain of but the hard necessity of the service."

But this reply did not produce its effect, and Mayham certainly erred, as a soldier, in complaining
of the severity of his tasks. In the old chivalrous periods, the peculiar severity of the duties
assigned to knighthood was recognized gratefully, as a matter of compliment and trust. He still
held off; and Marion promptly demanded, that, if Mayham had any independent right of command,
while nominally under him, he might be at once withdrawn from the brigade. Mayham's manner
and tone were quite respectful, but tenacious; and while the discussion was in progress, and
he holding off from Horry, events were brewing which were destined to terminate the unfortunate
dispute by a capital misfortune.

Again taking advantage of the absence of Marion, an expedition was set on foot in Charleston,
against Horry. A detachment of two hundred horse, five hundred infantry, and two pieces of
artillery, under Col. Thomson (better known in after-times as Count Rumford), prepared to ascend
Cooper river. Its preparations were not conducted with such caution, however, but that they
became known to the vigilant friends of the Americans in and about the city. The army was warned
of their preparations. Greene hinted to Marion the necessity of returning to his command. The
latter replies, by declaring his great anxiety to do so, but urges the impossibility of leaving
the Senate, lest the Assembly should be broken up--an event which might be of fatal importance
to the cause, unless the great business of the session were first disposed of. He promises
to move as soon as this should be the case. The actual movement of the British detachment made
it impossible that Marion should longer delay to rejoin his brigade, and, accompanied by Col.
Mayham, he reached the ground on which the regiment of the latter was encamped, by a circuitous
route and rapid riding, on the 24th February. Here they were unhappily told that the enemy
was retiring. Marion, accordingly, remained to rest and refresh himself, while Mayham paid
a visit to his own plantation. In a few hours after Mayham's departure, an express arrived
with the mortifying intelligence that the brigade had been surprised and dispersed. Marion,
instantly putting himself at the head of Mayham's regiment, hurried on toward Wambaw, the scene
of the event, to check pursuit and collect and save the fugitives.

We have seen the position of Horry. He had sent out his scouts on all the roads by which the
approach of an enemy might be apprehended. Feeling himself secure, and being sick, he went
over the river on the 24th, the day of the catastrophe, to his plantation, leaving the brigade
under the command of Col. M'Donald. Major Benson, as will be remembered, held a position, with
the incomplete regiment of Horry, at Durant's plantation, about a mile above that of the brigade.
By some unaccountable remissness of patrols or videttes, the British cavalry, under Coffin,
surprised the latter post. Benson, it is said, had been told by Capt. Bennett, who commanded
the scouts in St. Thomas's, that the enemy was approaching; but the information was brought
to him while at dinner, and a keen appetite made him slow to believe tidings which might have
lessened the enjoyment of the meal. Bennett proceeded to Horry's headquarters, where Col. M'Donald
happened to be at dinner also. He proved equally incredulous, but desired Major James, who
had just arrived in camp, to take command of his regiment. The surprise of Benson was complete,
and he paid for his remissness or indifference with his life. The firing at Durant's convinced
M'Donald of his error; but, in all probability, the surprise was quite as complete in the one
command as in the other. There were two regiments of "six-months' men"--that is to say, "reformed
Tories"--persons who had come in under the proclamation issued by Governor Rutledge. These
broke at the first encounter with the enemy. In their flight, and to prevent pursuit, they
threw off the planks from Wambaw bridge. Fortunately, a strong body, under Major James, checked
the pursuit for a space, and gave an opportunity for the fugitives to save themselves. Many
of them crossed the river by swimming, but some were drowned in the attempt. The thickets saved
the infantry. No prisoners were taken. The British gave no quarter. Successful against Benson
and M'Donald, the enemy pressed forward in the direction of Marion's approach, but without
having any knowledge of his proximity. He had halted with the cavalry of Mayham, at the house
of Mrs. Tydiman, about four miles from the scene of the disaster, to refresh his men and horses.
The latter were unbitted and feeding, when the whole of the enemy's cavalry made their appearance.
It would seem, from the indecision of their commander, that he was no less surprised at falling
in with this body of Marion's men, than was our partisan at his sudden appearance. His hesitation
under this surprise gave the Americans an opportunity to recover themselves. It was the opinion
of Mayham, that, had the charge been sounded the moment that he came in view, the whole regiment
must have been lost. There was no retreat, save by the river, and by the lane through which
they had entered the plantation, and of this the enemy had full command. The halt and hesitation
of the British--their seeming alarm--at once afforded Marion the means of extrication from
his predicament. To bit and mount their horses, was, for his cavalry, the work of a moment.
Though not counting half the numbers of the enemy, Marion's instant resolution was to issue
forth by the lane, and attack them. They had displayed themselves in front of it. Just before
the lane was an old field, and a little to the right a pond of water. Marion, placing a small
body of infantry to great advantage along the fence, ordered his column of cavalry to advance
through the lane to the attack. His men were well mounted; in this respect, if inferior in
numbers, they had a manifest advantage over the British. The latter had been too long cooped
up in the walls of Charleston, on short commons, to be very serviceable; and the cavalry of
Mayham, though somewhat too much crowded with the "new-made Whigs", were yet confident, from
long experience, in their ability to contend with the enemy. Marion himself was confident,
but was destined, in this instance, to lose, what he himself, in his dispatches, has styled,
"a glorious opportunity of cutting up the British cavalry." His men moved to the extremity
of the lane, before which the enemy had halted, with a firm and promising countenance. The
front section was led by Capt. Smith, an officer of approved courage, who, in a very recent
affair at St. Thomas' muster-house, had signally distinguished himself. Yet, seized with a
sudden panic, the moment that he reached the end of the lane, he dashed into the woods on the
right, and drew after him the whole regiment. Marion himself, who was near the head of the
column, was borne away by the torrent, which he in vain struggled to withstand. The rush was
irresistible--the confusion irretrievable. All efforts to restrain or recover the fugitives
were idle, until they had reached the woods. There Marion succeeded in rallying a party, and
at this point the pursuit of the enemy was checked, and the fugitives partly rallied. They
had sustained but little loss in lives; but the shame, the disgrace of such a panic, were immeasurably
humiliating. The British showed no eagerness in the pursuit. They seemed to doubt the bloodless
victory which they had won, and, content with their own escape, were not unreasonably urgent
with fortune to make their victory complete. They subsequently, after they had fully recovered
from their panic, contrived greatly to exaggerate the importance of the event. One of the newspapers
of the day has the following:--"Things bear a better prospect than they did. Colonel Thomson
has defeated General Marion in South Carolina, killed one hundred men, and Marion was drowned,
attempting to escape." The only officer drowned in the flight, was Lieut. Smyzer of Horry's
cavalry.

The loss of the brigade in horses and accoutrements was greater than in men. Their greater
loss, however, was of that confidence in themselves and one another, which it was one of the
greatest objects of Marion's training to inspire. The true secret of the superiority of regulars
over militia-men lies in the habit of mutual reliance. They feel each other's elbows, in military
parlance--they are assured by the custom of mutually depending one upon the other. This habit
impresses them with a conviction, which the terrors of conflict do not often impair, that they
will not be deserted; and, thus assured, they hurry into the battle, and remain in it so long
as the body with which they move can act together. Once broken, however, the cry is 'sauve
qui peut'. Not so with militia-men. They never forget their individuality. The very feeling
of personal independence is apt to impair their confidence in one another. Their habit is to
obey the individual impulse. They do not wait to take their temper from their neighbor right
and left. Hence their irregularity--the difficulty of restraining them--of making them act
in routine, and with entire reference to the action of other bodies. So far from deriving strength
from feeling another's elbow, they much prefer elbow room. Could they be assured of one another,
they were the greatest troops in the world. They ARE the greatest troops in the world--capable
of the most daring and heroic achievements--wherever the skill of the commander can inspire
this feeling of mutual reliance. Frequent cooperation of the same persons under the same leader
produces it, and makes them veterans. The old soldiers of the brigade had it in perfection.
It was one of the excellences of Marion that it followed so certainly and rapidly from his
peculiar training. That it should be lost or impaired, was a most serious evil. That it would
not have been endangered, we are sure, had it not been that the brigade no longer consisted
of the brave fellows who had clung to him through the campaigns of the last two years. The
new recruits were, in all probability, to blame for the mischance; and something, perhaps,
is due to the unhappy quarrel between Mayham and Horry. The former was terribly mortified by
the affair--mortified that Marion should have hurried to the scene of action without apprising
him, and vexed that his own regiment should have behaved so badly. He complains that others
should "expend the strength of the regiment without giving HIM the satisfaction of being present."
Captain John Caraway Smith, the officer who led the column thus disastrously aside, resigned
the day after the affair. His conduct had been habitually brave. But a short time before, as
already shown, he had behaved with the most determined and audacious gallantry at the head
of the same troop. That their training was defective is beyond question, but no imputation
rested upon their courage or his own. Nevertheless, we have Napoleon's authority for the opinion
that every man has his 'moment de peur'. No man is equally firm on all occasions. There are
moods of weakness and irresolution in every mind, which is not exactly a machine, which impair
its energies, and make its course erratic and uncertain. The truth was known in earlier ages.
The old poets ascribed it to supernatural influence. Envious deities interposed between valor
and its victim, paralysing the soul of the one and strengthening that of the other. Thus we
find even Hector, upon occasion, the slave of panic, and Paris, on the other hand, almost emulating
the spirit of his brother.

The conduct of Captain Smith, in this affair, has been excused by Mayham. He ascribes it to
an error of Marion himself. He says that, "Marion (who was an infantry officer) gave the order
to 'file off from the house to the right,' instead of ordering 'to charge!' This induced his
officers to believe that they were to retreat and not to fight." This may be true; but it is
scarcely probable. Retreat from the house, except into the river, seems to have been cut off.
The only other avenue was the lane. At the end of this was the enemy, drawn out in order of
battle. Upon these the advance was ordered. We have seen that Marion himself exulted in the
conviction that the enemy was in his power. His exultation could not have been entirely concealed
from his officers. It must have declared itself in some way. The halt and hesitation of the
British were perceptible to all. They were in superior numbers, and when they reached the head
of the lane, the horses of the American cavalry were unbitted and feeding. A sudden and resolute
charge, according to Mayham, on the part of the British, would have resulted in the entire
defeat of the regiment. That they did not order this charge betrayed their apprehensions, and
should have encouraged, in similar degree, the Americans--DID encourage them, and hence the
resolve of Marion to advance upon them. That it should be supposed he would hurry forward,
in the very teeth of the enemy, only to dash aside in confusion from the struggle, is scarcely
reasonable. But Mayham was offended with Marion. The latter had decided against him in the
controversy with Horry; and the subsequent movement against the British, without stopping to
require his presence, was another mortifying circumstance which he was not likely to forget.
Biased by his feelings, he was not willing to believe that the seeming slight was in reality
due to the emergency of the case, which would not allow a moment's hesitation in Marion's movement
at such a juncture.

As soon as the presence of Marion was known, the fugitives gathered around him. But for his
absence they had never been dispersed. Horry's regiment was very much crippled; Mayham's in
equally bad condition. Of M'Donald's, and the brigade, a few hundred were soon brought together;
and with his deranged and dispirited band, our partisan retired beyond the Santee to repair
and recruit his strength, and revive the confidence of his men in their leaders and themselves.
In the meanwhile, the country which he had so recently covered and protected was harried by
the British. They improved the interval of his absence by successful incursions. The cattle
had been already put beyond their power, on the other side the Santee; but they stripped the
plantations within their reach, as well of slaves as of provisions. Greene could do nothing
to prevent them. His own army was in a state of convulsion and commotion; suffering from distress
and discontent, and threatened with dissolution. Recent occurrences had awakened his fears
for his own security.

One result of Marion's recent disaster was to put an end to the dispute between Horry and Mayham.
Their respective regiments were so reduced, after the affair at Wambaw, that it was deemed
advisable to amalgamate them. Having resolved upon this measure, Gov. Mathews, who had succeeded
Rutledge, applied to Marion to know who of the two was the best cavalry officer--an opinion
which Marion yielded with great reluctance. His personal preferences went with Horry, but he
could not hesitate in declaring for Mayham. Horry, with the ambition of a spirited soldier,
eagerly desired a command of cavalry,--was a good infantry officer, and had all the requirements
of skill and bravery. But he was no horseman, and it is said that, in several of his charges,
he was indebted to some one or other of his men for his own safety, being commonly unhorsed.
His gallantry and patriotism were equally unquestionable. They had been displayed from the
beginning of the war. The preference shown Mayham caused Horry's resignation from the service;
but to console him for the mortification, Marion made him commandant of Georgetown, a post
which united the responsibilities and duties of a military and civil service.

With the adjournment of the Assembly at Jacksonborough, the army of Greene moved down from
Skirving's plantation to Bacon's bridge, at the head of Ashley river. Here, within twenty miles
of the enemy, a dangerous conspiracy ripened almost to maturity among the Pennsylvania troops,
composed in part of the very mutineers who had triumphed over government in the insurrection
in Jersey, and who, as Lafayette observed,* "had been well paid and well clothed in consequence
of it." This, we believe, was the only body of troops furnished to the Southern army, during
the Revolution, from any of the States north of Maryland and Delaware. We make this remark
with the view to the correction of a very general error, arising from the vague manner in which
it is customary for our historians to speak of the sources of the personnel of the Southern
army. The armies led by Gates and Greene, to the defence of Carolina, were truly from States
north of her, but they were not Northern States. Two fine bodies of troops came from Maryland
and Delaware, but the rest were from Virginia and North Carolina,--with the exception of the
Pennsylvania line, of which we have now to speak. These, as we have seen, had been refractory
in Jersey, and instead of being punished, were paid for their sedition. It was natural that
they should endeavor to renew an experiment which had already proved so profitable. The mutineers
were directed by one Sergeant Gornell. Their number is unknown. They were solely of the Pennsylvania
line, and might have been successful but for an attempt which they made upon the fidelity of
the Marylanders. Their purpose was to deliver Greene to the enemy, and otherwise facilitate
the objects of the latter, who were to make a concerted movement, in force, upon the American
army, at a prescribed moment. The integrity of the Marylanders, whom Gornell approached, was
not to be shaken; and to their fidelity and the quick ears of one of the camp-women, the army
was indebted for its safety. The circumstances were all in favor of the success of the conspirators.
There was a general discontent in the army. The troops were badly fed and clothed--were unpaid,
doubtful of pay, and suffering present distresses. They were inactive. Many of them were new
recruits. Greene was no longer surrounded by the tried and true men and officers, who had borne
the brunt of the contest. The term of service of the former had in great part expired, some
of his best officers were on furlough, and he had offended others. Sumter had left the army
in disgust; Pickens was operating against the Indians; Marion was recruiting his brigade on
the Santee; Williams had gone home; Howard was in Maryland, scarcely recovered from his wounds;
Wayne was in Georgia, doing good service in that quarter; St. Clair was absent on leave; Lee
had gone to Virginia to get married, and his legion was almost shorn of officers; Eggleston
had gone with him to Virginia, and the brave fellows, Armstrong and Carrington, had fallen
into the hands of the enemy. The time was well chosen for mutiny, and as the hour drew near
for the consummation of the purpose of the conspirators, the British army was set in motion
from below,--not so secretly, however, but that their movements were made known to the Americans.
Symptoms of mutiny became apparent in the camp, and it was necessary to proceed with vigor.
Doubtful of a large number of those around him, Greene summoned Marion with all his force from
the Santee, while his own army was kept in order of battle. The arrest of Gornell, with that
of four others, all sergeants of the Pennsylvania line, took place the night before the conspiracy
was to take effect. Gornell was tried and executed; the others were sent under guard into the
interior. This proceeding was the signal for the flight of at least a dozen more, who, having
been committed, broke away on the night of Gornell's seizure, and found protection with the
enemy, who advanced in force to receive them. This prompt proceeding suppressed the mutiny.
The development of the conspiracy, the state of preparedness in the camp of Greene, and the
movement of Marion, had the effect of discouraging the farther advance of the British army;
and Marion, while yet in motion for the camp of Greene, from which he was but eight miles distant,
was summoned in haste to the protection of Georgetown, against which the enemy was reported
to have sailed from Charleston. A forced march of four days brought him to White's Bridge,
when it was discovered that the alarm was unfounded. The enemy had not shown himself, and was
not nigh. In this march of one hundred and sixty miles, Marion's men had but a single ration
of rice. Their sole food, with this exception, was lean beef. The march took place in April,
when there is no forage for cattle, and when such as survive the winter, are compelled to wander
far in the swamps and thickets in search of the scanty herbage which sustains them. The march
of our partisan in these two expeditions was conducted solely on foot. The country south of
the Santee had been so completely foraged by the British, during his vacation of it, that he
was compelled to dismount his infantry in his movements until the spring herbage should enable
him to feed his horses. His force was reduced to two hundred militia and one hundred and twenty
horse. It was the wish of General Greene that he should take post as near the enemy as possible,
in order both to shorten his limits beyond Cooper river, and to enable Col. Laurens, who now
commanded the legion of Lee, to pass the Ashley, and close upon the British between the latter
river and Goose Creek. But with his infantry dismounted, he dared not venture so completely
within the reach of an enemy so superior; and with the double purpose of securing a retreat,
if necessary, and of forming a junction with any party when desirable, either at Huger's Bridge,
over the west branch of Cooper river, or at Strawberry Ferry, he took post at Sinkler's plantation
on the Santee. This left him within twenty-five miles of each of these designated routes. His
cavalry meanwhile patrolled the country as low as Haddrell and Hobcaw, and in sight of the
British posts at those places. They thus procured the earliest news of the enemy's movements,
and checked his incursions in that quarter. The effect of Marion's presence with his brigade
was soon felt, as well by his people as by the British. By the latter it was deemed important
to relieve themselves from a neighbor at once so vigilant and inconvenient. A messenger, feigning
to be a deserter, was dispatched by General Leslie, whose plan was to make his way through
the scouts of Marion, to the Scotch and loyal settlements on the borders of North Carolina.
These were to be stirred up to insurrection, and Marion was to be diverted from a quarter in
which his presence was particularly annoying. The messenger succeeded in his object, but was
less fortunate in his return. He had done the mischief required at his hands, fomented the
insurrection, and set the loyalists in motion. The proofs were conclusive against him, and
he perished by military execution. The timely notice which Marion obtained of his labors enabled
him to prepare against the event.

     * Johnson's Life of Greene, Vol.

Meanwhile, the main body of the army under Greene continued to suffer diminution. On the first
of May a large proportion of the North Carolina troops were entitled to and claimed their discharge.
No recruits were expected from the North, and it became necessary to draw together all the
force that South Carolina could afford. The Government of this State, from its first re-organization,
had faithfully endeavored to re-establish the South Carolina line, but without money or means,
with very little corresponding success. A few recruits were obtained from among those who had
recently received their discharge, but the service had been of a kind to baffle all the temptations
and arguments of the recruiting officers. In the emergency of the case, it became indispensable
to look to the militia under Marion, Pickens and Henderson; and these leaders were accordingly
required to repair to headquarters.

The withdrawal of the former, with his troops, from the region of country which they had so
lately covered, was the signal for that rising of the loyalists upon the Pedee, to instigate
which the unfortunate emissary of General Leslie had been dispatched from Charleston. The absence
of Marion was considered auspicious to the new movement. He had scarcely reached Dorchester
when his ancient enemy, Major Gainey, appeared in arms at the head of a considerable body of
troops, both cavalry and infantry. A small command under Col. Baxter, which had been left by
Marion to observe their movements, was too feeble to make head against them, and it became
necessary for Marion himself to retrace his steps, and arrest the progress of the insurrection.
Placing himself at the head of Mayham's cavalry, he promptly advanced in the direction of the
enemy. So rapid were his movements, so vigilant his watch, so well devised his plans, that
he reached the Pedee country long before his approach was suspected. His presence, on the present
occasion, was a surprise. It had long been a terror; so much so that but for his remoteness
at the camp of Greene, they had, in all probability, never ventured to resume their arms. Three
separate bodies of men, by a judicious arrangement of our partisan, were prepared to enter
their country at the same moment. These were so placed, that, though operating separately,
they might yet be made to cooperate if desired. The effect was such as to paralyse the incipient
resolution of the loyalists. They showed no disposition for fight; and feeling their temper,
conscious of his difficulties, and now no longer hopeful of help from the British, Gainey dispatched
a flag to Marion with proposals to treat for a pacification. He was not unwilling to renew
the treaty which, just one year before, he had entered into with Horry, who then acted as the
lieutenant of our partisan. This treaty, influenced by British emissaries, the Tories had very
imperfectly kept. In small squads they had been perpetually rising, and committing trespasses
upon their neighbors whenever the withdrawal of Marion's men afforded them opportunity. They
had now everything to fear from his anger; but they also knew his willingness to forgive. Relying
upon this, and making a merit of necessity, the communication of Gainey expressed the warmest
solicitude for peace. To this Marion was prepared to listen. Commissioners were appointed on
both sides. They met, but, unhappily, they recognized in each other well known personal opponents.
They had often met in strife, and could not forbear alluding to their encounters. The conversation
grew warm, the parties excited, and instead of coming to terms, the commissioners almost came
to blows. They separated with increased resentment. A fierce skirmish followed, and the attempt
to adjust their differences was renewed between the respective commanders. Marion was anxious
to effect a pacification. His services were required below on the Santee and Cooper, to check
the incursions of the British, and he consented to meet and confer with Gainey in person. This
determination was censured by some of his officers. They denounced Gainey as a leader of banditti;
and, certainly, his conduct, on many occasions, deserved the reproach. They reproached Marion
for committing his dignity in treating with such a person. But this suggestion did not affect
him. He was governed by views and principles very far superior to those which influence the
ordinary soldier. His pride did not suffer from such censures. His reply was equally prompt
and conclusive. He told them that he "aimed at no higher dignity than that of essentially serving
his country."

The result was satisfactory to our partisan. Making a merit of necessity, Gainey yielded without
requiring any farther resort to blows. At the Bowling Green, between the Great and Little Pedee,
more than five hundred men laid down their arms, submitting to conditions which were rather
strict than severe. Marion and Gainey met at Birch's mill on the 8th June, when a treaty was
drawn up having for its basis the articles of the preceding arrangement with Horry. By this
treaty, Gainey and his men were to lay down their arms and not to resume them unless ordered
to do so by the authorities of the State; they bound themselves to deliver up all negroes,
horses, cattle and other property of which they had dispossessed the people of this or any
other State--to demean themselves as peaceable citizens, and submit to the laws of the State--to
deliver up all contumacious and rebellious persons within their district--to deliver up all
deserters from the regular service--to sign a declaration of allegiance to the United States,
and to South Carolina in particular, and to abjure the British crown, and to surrender all
British property. Compliance with these conditions, was to ensure them full pardon for their
treasons to the State, and the enjoyment of their property as citizens within it; while individuals
not choosing to comply, were to be permitted, with their wives and children, a safe progress
to the British lines. From the benefits of this treaty, some few atrocious offenders were excepted.
Major Gainey removed with those who preferred to adhere to the fortunes of the British. He
did not side with their determination, but he deemed it a duty to see that those who had followed
his arms, should be put in safety beyond the reach of their enemies: an honorable resolve certainly.
Before his departure he waited upon Marion and said: "Honor, sir, requires that I should yield
my commission to Col. Balfour, from whom I received it; but this done, I shall immediately
return to the country and seek your protection." This was frankly promised him, and with every
confidence in the assurance of Marion, as soon as he had concluded his affairs in Charleston,
he promptly returned and enrolled himself in the American ranks. One of the loyalists, specially
exempted from the privileges of the treaty with Gainey, was a notorious marauder by the name
of Fanning. He was a sanguinary ruffian, with considerable talents, but brutal, reckless, and
most inveterate in his hostility to the American cause. Shortly after the treaty with Gainey,
this person appeared in the truce ground at the head of a small party. It was feared that he
would stir up the revolt anew. He came for that purpose. Marion was at once upon the alert.
His force, divided into three bodies, occupied various parts of the lately disaffected districts,
and overawed the spirit of revolt, if it yet existed. Finding the cause hopeless in that quarter,
Fanning sent a flag to Marion with a request that he would grant a safe-conduct to his wife,
and some property, to the British garrison in Charleston. Against any such concession the officers
of Marion expostulated. They were unwilling that so cruel a ruffian should receive any indulgence.
But Marion looked more deeply into the matter, and yielded a prompt compliance with the request.
"Let but his wife and property reach the British lines, and Fanning will follow. Force them
to remain, and we only keep a serpent in our bosom." Such was his reasoning, and the truth
of it was very soon apparent. Finding the hope of insurrection fruitless, Fanning fled the
country, and was as soon in Charleston as his wife.

The disaffected district was now covered by his troops, busied in securing all persons who,
declining to retire to the British, still withheld their submission from the American authorities.
In the execution of this duty, some licentiousness followed--such irregularities as are apt
to occur where soldiers traverse a subdued territory. Intimations of these irregularities reached
the ears of the partisan. No individual was charged with offence, and no particulars were given;
but Marion took occasion to declare his indignation in the presence of officers and men. "I
have heard insinuations," said he, "which, if true, would disgrace my command; no accusation
has been made; but I wish you clearly to know that let officer or soldier be proved guilty
of crime, and he shall hang on the next tree." His firmness and sincerity were known; and he
heard of no more license. While engaged in the irksome duty of arresting the recusant, he was
equally busy in granting written protections to those who subscribed frankly to the conditions
of the treaty. The judicious disposition and immediate presence of his force--the terror inspired
by his successes--the knowledge which they had of his mercy, and their evident abandonment
by the British--had the effect of bringing crowds to his camp, trebling the number of his own
troops, seeking the proffered securities. Such was the consumption of paper on this occasion,
or rather such the poverty at headquarters, that old letters were torn up, the backs of which
were put in requisition for this object. While at Birch's mills, on the Pedee, among others
who sought the protection of Marion was one Capt. Butler, who had made himself particularly
odious by his crimes and ferocity. He had been conspicuous as the oppressor of the Whig inhabitants
of the Pedee. He was not ignorant of the detestation in which he was held, and it was with
some misgivings that he sought the required protection. His appearance in the American camp
was the signal for a commotion. There were among the men of Marion some who were connected
with persons who had suffered by the atrocities of Butler. They determined to avenge their
friends. They resolved that no protection should save him, and an intemperate message to that
effect was sent to Marion. Marion instantly took Butler to his own tent, and firmly answered
those by whom the message was brought: "Relying on the pardon offered, the man whom you would
destroy has submitted. Both law and honor sanction my resolution to protect him with my life."
A still more intemperate message reached him, declaring that "Butler should be dragged to death
from his tent--that to defend such a wretch was an insult to humanity." To this Marion made
no reply, but calling around him the members of his family, and some of his most trusty followers,
he gave them to understand that he should expect their cooperation at all hazards in protecting
the culprit from violence. "Prepare to give me your assistance, for though I consider the villainy
of Butler unparalleled, yet, acting under orders as I am, I am bound to defend him. I will
do so or perish." The mutiny threatened to be formidable, and that night, Marion succeeded
with a strong guard in conveying the prisoner to a place of safety. The treaty with Gainey
put an end to the domestic feuds upon the Pedee, and anxious to regain the local confidence
which they had forfeited, numbers of the loyalists of this quarter, following the example of
their leader, entered the ranks of the Americans, and though too late to be of effectual service
in the war, yet furnished sufficient proofs of their fidelity.

No farther necessity appearing for the longer stay of Marion on the Pedee, he prepared to return
to his former range along the rivers Cooper and Santee. His absence from this region afforded
an opportunity for the enemy to renew their depredations from Charleston. Marion had left Colonel
Ashby in command of his infantry, when, at the head of Mayham's horse, he hurried to encounter
Gainey, and quell his insurrection. Ashby, pressed by a superior British force, had been compelled
to yield before it, and this intelligence left our partisan no moment of respite after quelling
the commotions on the Pedee, before he was required to return and cover the country which had
so long been indebted to his vigilance for protection. In leaving the Pedee, with still some
doubts of the newly converted loyalists of that quarter, he left Col. Baxter with one hundred
and fifty trusty men, to maintain the ascendency which he had just acquired. This object was
of the last importance, not only with reference to the doubtful 'personnel' of the country,
but the valuable 'materiel', cattle and provisions, which might have been carried off to the
enemy. Suspicious of the fidelity of the loyalists, there was every reason to fear that it
might be too strongly tested. The British were known to be preparing a fleet of small vessels
for some enterprises directed northwardly, and no object of importance seemed more obvious
than that of renewing the disturbances on the Pedee and possessing themselves of the immense
plunder which that region of country might still afford.

All precautions taken, our partisan hurried his return. But had he not been joined by a newly
raised corps under Major Conyers, he must have marched alone. So rapid had been his movements,
so unremitting his duties, that the cavalry of Mayham which he led, were completely broken
down. He was compelled to leave them behind him to recruit. At Murray's Ferry, on the Santee,
he halted to collect his militia, and await the arrival of Mayham's corps. Here he consolidated
the commands of Mayham and Conyers into one regiment; and about the middle of July was enabled
once more to cross the Santee with a force of three hundred dismounted infantry, and a respectable
body of horse. With these he took post on the Wassamasaw, in a position which, while it was
secure, enabled him to cooperate with the detachments of the main army in covering the country.
Here his vigilance was again conspicuous. His parties were constantly busy. His own movements
to and fro, wherever an enemy could approach, or was suspected, were continual, from the Cooper
to the Santee. His objects were threefold--to check the irruptions of the enemy, to cut off
their supplies, and to provide for his own people. His scouting parties penetrated in every
hostile direction--sometimes as low as Daniel's Island and Clement's Ferry--points almost within
the ken of the British garrison. But the enemy was no longer enterprising. They were not often
met. Their cavalry was few and inferior, and their exigencies may be inferred from their uniforming
and converting some of their captured negroes into troopers. One corps of these black dragoons,
consisting of twenty-six men, was cut to pieces by one of Marion's scouting parties of twelve,
commanded by Capt. Capers.

The British, tired of the war, were preparing to evacuate the country. Preparatory to this,
it was necessary that they should lay in sufficient store of provisions. General Leslie had
been preparing for this necessity and, late in July, a numerous fleet of small vessels, conveying
eight hundred men, and convoyed by galleys and armed brigs, left Charleston to proceed, as
it was conjectured, against Georgetown. This compelled Marion to hasten in that direction.
Here he made every arrangement for moving the public stores to a place of safety. Black Mingo
was preferred as the depot, for the honorable reason, as given in Marion's own words, that
it was "a settlement of good citizens and of my earliest and most faithful followers." But
the enterprise of the enemy was less hazardous. The collection of rice was their object. This
was to be found in the greatest quantity on the Santee, from the banks of which river they
carried off about six hundred barrels. Marion's force was thrown over the Sampit so as to intercept
their march to Georgetown, but he could not impede their progress up the South Santee, protected
as they were under the guns of their galleys.

With the departure of the enemy from the river, the completion of his arrangements for the
removal of the stores at Georgetown, and the defence of that place, Marion again recrossed
the Santee and hurried to Watboo, on the Cooper. This river, leading to Charleston, to which
the fleet of the enemy had returned, was naturally thought to be the next which they would
attempt to penetrate. He had left a small body of infantry at this place, but this was deemed
inadequate to the required duties. But they were sufficient at least to attract the attention
of the British. Ignorant of Marion's return, believing him to be still at Georgetown, whither,
it was known, he had taken all his cavalry,--a detachment of dragoons, more than one hundred
strong, was sent from Charleston, under Major Frasier, against the post at Watboo. The rapidity
of Marion's movements brought him back in season for its safety. It happened unfortunately,
that, when he heard of the approach of this detachment, his cavalry were absent, patrolling
down the river, maintaining their watch for the British fleet, which was the chief subject
of apprehension. This fleet, meanwhile, had gone southwardly, pursuing the object of its former
quest up the waters of the Combahee. With the approach of Frasier, Marion dispatched his messengers
in search of his cavalry, and to call in his pickets. Some of the latter had joined him before
the enemy appeared. Frasier exhibited considerable conduct in making his approaches. He had
taken an unfrequented route, and had succeeded in capturing some of the out-sentinels of our
partisan. He advanced upon him in the fullest confidence of effecting a surprise--not of Marion,
but of the smaller force under Col. Ashby, which he still believed to be the only force opposed
to him. He was soon undeceived and found his enemy rather stronger than he expected, and drawn
up in readiness for his reception. It was about the 25th of August. Marion lay at the plantation
of Sir John Colleton, on the south side of Watboo Creek, and a little above the bridge. The
situation pleased him, and it was one of his frequent places of encampment when he happened
to be operating in the vicinity. The owner was a loyalist and had left the country. The mansion
and his extensive range of negro houses afforded ample shelter for such a force as that which
Marion commanded. With the gradual advance of Frasier, Marion seems to have been acquainted,
but in the absence of his cavalry his only mode of obtaining intelligence was through his officers.
These alone, of all the party in camp, were provided with horses. Of these, he ordered out
a party under Capt. Gavin Witherspoon to reconnoitre. While they were absent, Marion put his
infantry in order of battle. The main body occupied an avenue of venerable cedars, which, neglected
during the war, in their untrimmed state, stood overgrown with branches, their long boughs
trailing almost to the ground. His left, by which the enemy was compelled to advance, were
placed under cover of some of the out-buildings. Thus prepared, he waited the approach of the
British, though not without sundry misgivings. It must be confessed that, at this juncture,
he had not the most perfect confidence in the force under his command. They consisted, in great
proportion, of those who, in that day, were known as new-made Whigs--men who had deserted the
enemy and been cleansed of their previous treasons by the proclamation of Governor Rutledge,
which, not long before, had promised immunity to all who came in promptly with their adhesion
and joined the American ranks. There were also present some of those who, under Gainey, had
recently received the protection of Marion, on the truce ground of Pedee. Major Gainey himself
was among them, and with forty of his people, was placed conspicuously in the column in preparation
for the British approach. Well might Marion feel some uneasiness at his situation, particularly
in the absence of the cavalry on which he could rely. But our partisan had the art of securing
the fidelity of those around him, in quite as great a degree as he possessed that other great
military art, of extracting good service out of the most doubtful materials. He concealed his
apprehensions, while he endeavored to dissipate those of his men.

Meanwhile, Witherspoon, with the reconnoitring party, advanced but a little distance in the
woods, when they were met by the enemy's cavalry and instantly charged. A long chase followed,
which soon brought the pursuers into view of the partisan. His men were half concealed behind
the thick boughs of the cedars beneath which they were drawn up. The interest of the chase,
as they drew more near, was increased by a little incident which was greatly calculated to
encourage the militia. When in full view, the horse of Witherspoon failed him, or his rider
purposely fell behind to bring up the rear of his little escort. At this sight a British dragoon
darted forward to cut him down. Witherspoon coolly suffered him to advance until he was almost
within striking distance. With sword uplifted, the assailant had already risen in his stirrups
to smite, when, quick as lightning, Witherspoon, who had watched him narrowly, poured the contents
of his carbine into his breast. This was followed by a shout from the Americans, and, with
furious yells, the British dashed forward upon Marion's left. The reconnoitring party melted
before them, and the infantry delivered their fire with fatal effect. A dozen saddles were
instantly emptied, Capt. Gillies of the British, who led the charge, being one of the first
victims. The enemy soon rallied, and attempted first his right and then his left flank; but
the evolutions of Marion were quite as ready, and, by changing his front promptly, and availing
himself of the cover afforded by the houses and the fences, he showed the hazard of attempting
a second charge to be too great for such a force as that of Frasier. For an hour after, the
British manoeuvred around them, but without discovering any opportunity of retrieving or revenging
their disaster. A single fire terminated this affair, and seldom has a single fire, where so
small a front has been engaged, done such considerable execution. One officer and eight men
were instantly killed; three officers and eight men wounded; five horses fell dead upon the
field, a few were taken and many wounded. The discharge took place at thirty paces, and Marion's
men usually fired with heavy buck-shot. His new-made Whigs stood the test bravely, showing
a steadiness and courage, whilst opposed to their old allies, which soon set the heart of our
partisan at ease. They had very good reasons for steadiness and valor. They fought with halters
about their necks. Not a man of them, if taken, would have escaped the cord and tree. Marion
did not lose a man, but he suffered a very serious loss of another sort. In the midst of the
confusion of the fight, the driver of his ammunition wagon took fright, and made off with his
charge in a direction which betrayed its flight to the enemy, who immediately sent a small
detachment, by which it was taken. Marion had no cavalry to recover it; but five of his men,
armed with the broad-swords of the British whom they had just slain, and mounted on their captured
horses, volunteered to recover it. They actually succeeded in rescuing it from the detachment
by which it was taken, but could retain it only till the fugitives could reach their main body
and return with a force to which our volunteers could oppose no resistance. They were compelled
to abandon the prize, which, had fortune seconded their endeavors, was certainly due to their
merits. This little affair is a sample of that generous service which it was the happy faculty
of our partisan to extract from his followers. It is to tradition that we owe the vague memory
of numerous like advantages, of which history preserves no records. Under his guidance, his
men seldom suffered panic. They fancied themselves invincible when he led. In the present instance
he declared that not a man faltered--that he even had to restrain their eagerness, and prevent
them rushing out into the open field, to meet the charge of the cavalry. His own coolness never
deserted him. He never lost sight of the whole field, in the vehement action of a part. His
keenness of vision, his vigilance of watch, his promptness in opposing his best resources to
the press of danger, of covering his weak points, and converting into means and modes of defence
and extrication, all that was available in his situation--were remarkable endowments, which
soon fixed the regards of his followers, and upon which they unhesitatingly relied. In the
absence of his cavalry, a defeat would have been a rout; his infantry would have been cut to
pieces, and his cavalry subsequently exposed to similar disaster. Had the latter been present,
the safety of the British must have depended solely on the fleetness of their steeds. With
this affair ended the actual conflicts of our partisan. His men were not yet disbanded. He
himself did not yet retire from the field which he had so often traversed in triumph. But the
occasion for bloodshed was over. The great struggle for ascendancy between the British crown
and her colonies was understood to be at an end. She was prepared to acknowledge the independence
for which they had fought, when she discovered that it was no longer in her power to deprive
them of it. She will not require any eulogium of her magnanimity for her reluctant concession.

Though the war in Carolina was understood to be nearly at an end, and the toils and dangers
of the conflict well nigh over, yet motives for vigilance still continued. There was ample
room for vicissitudes. The British still held possession of Charleston and its harbor, but
they were confined to these narrow limits. Here, watched on all sides by the impatient Americans,
they made their preparations for a reluctant departure. The sole remaining contest between
the opposing armies lay, in the desire of the one to bear with them as much of the spoils of
war as possible, and of the other to prevent them. The greater motives for the war on both
sides were at an end. The mother country had declared her willingness to forego the exercise
of her ancient authority, and the Colonies were admitted to the freedom which they sought.
In this state of things neither army attempted enterprises, the result of which could not affect
the objects of either nation. Thus was spared the unnecessary shedding of blood. The forces
under Greene continued gradually to contract their limits; while those of General Leslie remained
comparatively quiescent. The British officer was governed by a proper wisdom. As the evacuation
of Charleston was determined on, there was little use in keeping up the appearances of a struggle
which had virtually ceased to exist. He suggested accordingly to Greene, that an intercourse
should be established between town and country, by which the troops in the former might procure
their necessary supplies in barter with the people. To provision his fleet and army was his
object. For this he proposed a cessation of hostilities. It is to be regretted that this pacific
proposition was not entertained. Some valuable lives might have been saved to the country--we
may instance that of Col. Laurens. General Greene was not adverse to the proposition, but the
civil authorities objected. Their reasons for opposing this humane suggestion are scarcely
satisfactory. They believed that Leslie only aimed to accumulate provisions for the support
of the British forces in the West Indies, and thus enable them to prosecute the war more vigorously
against our French allies. This was an objection rather urged than felt. There was probably
some feeling, some impatience of temper at the bottom, which prompted them to dispute, at the
point of the sword, rather than yield to any suggestions of an enemy at whose hands they had
suffered such protracted injuries. A little more coolness and reflection might have shown them,
that, by refusing the application of Leslie, they only rendered it necessary that the British
should pay in blood for those supplies for which they were not unwilling to pay in money. And
blood usually calls for blood. The combat is never wholly on one side. It was virtually saying
we can spare a few more citizens. The concession might have been made to the wishes of the
British commander not only without any detriment to the service, but with absolute benefit
to the people and the army. The provisions which the enemy required would have found a good
market in Charleston, and the clothing, in lack of which the army was suffering severely, might
have been procured for them at the same place on the most reasonable terms. Besides, the rejection
of the overture was not necessarily a prevention of the purpose of the British. The American
army was quite too feeble either to expel them from the country, or to arrest their foraging
parties. The only effect of the rejection of the humane and pacific proposition of the British
commander, was to compel the preparation of that fleet of small craft, which, under the guns
of his galleys, was now penetrating the rivers, and rifling the grain from the wealthy plantations.
We have seen Marion opposing himself to this fleet at Georgetown, and have witnessed their
success upon the South Santee. The prompt return of our partisan to the head waters of Cooper
river, in all probability, preserved that neighborhood from the foragers. With the tidings
of their progress up the Combahee, the American light brigade, under General Gist, was ordered
to oppose them. It was here that one of those events took place which furnished a conclusive
commentary upon the ill-judged resolution by which the cessation of hostilities was rejected,
and the British denied the privilege of procuring supplies in a pacific manner. Hearing of
the movement of Gist, Col. Laurens, who was attached to his brigade, and was always eager for
occasions of distinction, rose from a sick bed to resume the command of his division. He overtook
the brigade on the north bank of the Combahee river, near the ferry. Twelve miles below, the
extreme end of Chehaw neck protrudes into the bed of the river, which, between these points,
is bounded by extensive swamps and rice fields. At this point a redoubt had been thrown up
by General Gist. The enemy was already above, on the opposite side of the stream. Laurens solicited
the command of this post for the purpose of annoying them in their retreat. Meanwhile, the
American cavalry under Major Call, had been ordered round by Salkehatchie bridge, to join with
the militia collected in that quarter for the purpose of striking at the enemy. With a howitzer,
some matrosses and fifty infantry, Laurens moved down the river, and on the evening of the
26th reached the place of Mrs. Stock, sufficiently near to Chehaw Point to take post there
by daylight the next morning. But the British were there before him. Baffled by the light brigade
of Gist, in procuring provisions on the south side of the river, they had crossed it, and,
apprised of the movements of Laurens, placed an ambush for him on his road to the Point. That
night was spent by Laurens among the ladies of the place where he lingered. It is recorded
that the company did not separate until a couple of hours before the time when the detachment
was set in motion. The prospect of his encounter was the topic of conversation, and with the
cheery, elastic spirit of youth, he gaily offered the ladies a conspicuous place from which
they might enjoy a sight of the action without incurring its dangers. Before sunrise his voice
was hushed for ever. Unsuspicious of an enemy, he rode at the head of his command. The British
were posted in a place thickly covered with fennel and high grass. With the advance guard when
they were discovered, he promptly ordered a charge, gallantly leading which, he fell at the
first fire. Laurens was one of those brave and ardent spirits, generous, high-souled, and immaculate,
which, in times of sordid calculation and drilled soldiership, recall to our minds the better
days of chivalry. He was the Bayard of the southern youth in the war of the revolution, uniting
all the qualities of the famous chevalier, 'sans peur et sans reproche'. That he should have
fallen, unnecessarily, at the close of the war, when nothing was to be gained, and nothing
to be saved, by valor,--and in an obscure encounter on a field of mere predatory warfare, doubles
the mortification of such a close to a noble and admirable career. A lesson from the pure and
correct code of Marion's military morals would have saved this precious blood, and preserved
this gallant youth for nobler fortunes. The following anecdote will illustrate the admirable
character of his mode of thinking on such subjects. While he held his position at Watboo, after
he had beaten Frasier, he was advised that a British party, which had been dispatched to procure
water at Lempriere's Point, could be cut off with little difficulty. The British were then
preparing for embarkation. A parting blow was recommended, as calculated to hurry their movements,
as well as to add something to the measure of patriot revenge for the wrongs and resentments
of the past. But Marion resolutely refused to sanction the enterprise. His answer proves equally
the excellence of his judgment and the benevolence of his heart. "My brigade," said he, "is
composed of citizens, enough of whose blood has been shed already. If ordered to attack the
enemy, I shall obey; but with my consent, not another life shall be lost, though the event
should procure me the highest honors of the soldier. Knowing, as we do, that the enemy are
on the eve of departure, so far from offering to molest, I would rather send a party to protect
them."

This noble feeling would have saved the lives of Laurens, Wilmot, Moore, and other gallant
young men, who were sacrificed at the last hour when all provocations to strife had ceased--when
the battle was already won--when the great object of the war had been attained by the one party,
and yielded, however reluctantly, by the other. Capt. Wilmot, with a small command, was stationed
to cover John's Island, and to watch the passage by Stono. Fond of enterprise he was tempted
occasionally to cross the river and harass the enemy on James' Island. In one of these adventures,
undertaken in conjunction with the celebrated Kosciusko, against an armed party of the enemy's
wood-cutters, he fell into an ambuscade, was himself slain, while his second in command, Lieut.
Moore, severely wounded, fell into the hands of the British. This was the last blood shed in
the American revolution. It need not to have been shed. The denouement of the protracted drama
had already taken place. The conquest of the Indians by Pickens was complete; the Tories no
longer appeared in bodies, though, for some time after, individuals of the scattered bands
occasionally continued the habits of outlawry which the war had taught them, and dealt in deeds
of midnight robbery and crime;--and the British armies were simply preparing to depart. On
the 14th of December, while the American columns entered the city from the neck, those of the
British retired to their ships; the movements of which, as their white sails distended to the
breeze, presented, in the language of Moultrie, "a grand and pleasing sight." It was a sight,
however, which the militia, always undervalued, always misunderstood and misrepresented, were
not permitted to behold. They had fought the battle, it was true, "but the civil authority"
conceived their uses to be over, and "they were excluded as dangerous spectators;" an unworthy
and most ungrateful decision, in which, we are pleased to learn from a self-exculpatory letter
of General Greene, he had no participation, and which he did not approve.

The forces of the British withdrawn from the shores of Carolina, the country, exhausted of
resources, and filled with malcontents and mourners, was left to recover slowly from the hurts
and losses of foreign and intestine strife. Wounds were to be healed which required the assuasive
hand of time, which were destined to rankle even in the bosoms of another generation, and the
painful memory of which is keenly treasured even now. But the civil authority takes the place
of the military, and with the disappearance of the invader, the warrior lays aside his sword,--satisfied
if he may still retain the laurels which his valor has won. Our partisan, yielding himself
at the call of his country, was not the man to linger unnecessarily long upon the stage. The
duties which had called him into the field were faithfully performed; how faithfully it has
been the effort of this humble narrative to show. The time was come when he was to part with
his brigade forever--when he was to take leave of those brave fellows, whom he had so frequently
led to victory, never to dishonor. The separation was touching, but without parade. On this
occasion his deportment was as modest as it had been through the whole period of their connection.
Gathered around him among the cedars at his Watboo encampment, his followers were assembled
to receive his last farewell. The simplicity which had marked his whole career, distinguished
its conclusion. His address was brief but not without its eloquence--such eloquence as belongs
to the language of unaffected and unadulterated truth. He acknowledged, with thanks, the services
of the officers and men; dwelt passingly upon particular events of which they had reason to
be proud, and bade them a friendly and affectionate farewell. The brief review which he made
of their campaigns was well calculated to awaken the most touching recollections. He had been
their father and protector. Officers and men equally yielded to the authority of his opinion,
as they did to that which he exercised in the capacity of their commander. In due degree with
their conviction of his care and consideration for themselves, was their readiness to follow
where he commanded. We have, already, in the opening of this biography, adverted to the melancholy
baldness of the memorials upon which the historian is compelled to rely for the materials of
his narrative. We are in possession of but few of the numerous enterprises in which he was
engaged; imperfect memories of the aged give us glimpses of deeds for the particulars of which
we turn in vain to the dusty pages of the chronicler. But we need not generalize farther upon
the traits of his military character. We have endeavored to make these speak for themselves,
page by page, in the narration of the events, so far as we know them, by which his reputation
was acquired. It is enough that his fame has entered largely into that of his country, forming
a valuable portion of its sectional stock of character. His memory is in the very hearts of
our people. Of the estimation in which he was held by contemporaries more might be said, but
these pages bear ample testimony of the consideration which he commanded from friend and foe.
The testimonials of Moultrie, Greene, Lee and others, are conclusive of that rare worth and
excellence--that combination of military and civil virtues--which biography cannot easily be
found to excel.

It was with no reluctance but with the cheerful preference which Marion had always given, since
manhood, to the life of the farmer, that he returned to its simple but attractive avocations.
But the world with him was, as it were, to be begun anew; no easy matter to one whose habits
had been necessarily rendered irregular by the capricious and desultory influences of a military
career; still more difficult in the case of one who has entered upon the last period of life.
The close of the Revolution found him destitute of means, almost in poverty, and more than
fifty years old. His health was good, however; his frame elastic; his capacity for endurance,
seemingly, as great as ever. But his little fortune had suffered irretrievably. His interests
had shared the fate of most other Southern patriots, in the long and cruel struggle through
which the country had gone. His plantation in St. John's, Berkeley, lay within a mile of one
of the ordinary routes of the British army, and his career was not calculated to move them
to forbearance in the case of one, whose perpetual activity and skill so constantly baffled
their designs. His estate was ravaged, and subjected to constant waste and depredation. One-half
of his negroes were taken away, and the rest only saved to him by their fidelity. The refuge
in swamp and forest was as natural to the faithful negro, on the approach of the British uniforms,
as to the fugitive patriot. Ten workers returned to him, when he was prepared to resume his
farm, but he was destitute of everything beside. The implements of culture, plantation utensils,
household furniture, stock, cattle and horses, clothes and provisions for his people, were
all wanting, and all to be purchased, and he penniless. He received no compensation for his
losses, no reward for his sacrifices and services. The hope of half pay was held out to him
by his more sanguine friends, but this promise was never realized. But, with that cheerful
spirit which hopes all things from time, and a meek compliance with what it brings, Marion
proceeded to work out his deliverance by manly industry, and a devotion to his interests as
true as that which he had yielded to the interests of his country. He had become fond of rural
life, and the temporary estrangement of war seemed only to increase his desire for that repose
in action, which the agricultural life in the South so certainly secures. But he was not permitted
to retire from public service. The value of his services was too well known, and there was
too much yet to be done, towards the repose and security of the country, to suffer them to
be dispensed with. He was again returned to the Senate of the State by the people of St. John's.
In this situation, he still maintained those noble and disinterested characteristics which
had made him equally beloved and venerated. Two anecdotes are preserved of him in his official
character, which deserve mention. Both of these grew out of the events of the war. The importance
of the Confiscation Act, passed at the session of January, 1782, at Jacksonborough, arose chiefly
from the necessity of providing for the emergencies of the State and military, during the continuance
of the war. Under existing circumstances, the measure was sustained by our partisan. But the
case was altered when the British ministry abandoned their pretensions to the country, and
when it was left by their armies. It was then that numerous offenders--those who had been least
conspicuous for their Tory predilections--applied for the indulgence and forbearance of the
State. Petitions were poured into the Legislature, sustained by such pleas and friends as the
circumstances of the suppliants could procure--excusing their conduct, asserting their repentance,
and imploring the restoration of their possessions. Marion's course in regard to these suppliants
may be inferred from his previous character. There was nothing vindictive in his nature. He
was superior to the baser cravings of a dogged vengeance, and his vote and voice declared his
magnanimity. It so happened that the first of these petitions upon which he was called to act,
came from one of that class of timid, time-serving persons, who, with no predilections for
virtue, no sympathy for principles or country, simply shape their course with regard to safety.
He was a man of wealth, and the effect of wealth in perilous times is but too frequently to
render selfishness equally cowardly and dishonest. The amount of his offence consisted in trimming,
while the strife was doubtful, between Whig and Tory, and siding with the latter when the British
gained the ascendency. He did not take up arms, took no active part in public affairs, and
was content to shelter his person and possessions under a cautious insignificance. About eighteen
months before, Marion had met the petitioner at a gathering of the people. The latter approached
and offered our partisan his hand. But the juncture was one in which it behooveth patriotism
to speak out at all hazards. The struggle was for life and death, on the part equally of Whig
and Tory. Marion knew the character of the person, and disdained it. To the surprise of all,
who knew how scrupulous of insult he was,--how indulgent and forbearing,--he turned away from
the trimmer and the sycophant without recognition. This treatment was greatly censured at the
time, and when Marion rose in the Senate, to speak on the subject of the petition of the man
whom he had so openly scorned, it was taken for granted that he would again give utterance
to feelings of the sort which moved him then. The miserable offender, who was himself present,
grew pale, trembled, and gave up his cause as lost. What was his surprise and delight to hear
the venerable patriot advocate his application! He was successful in obtaining for the suppliant
the mercy which he implored. The opponents of the petitioner, some of whom were of that class
of patriots who hunger for the division of the spoils, were aghast, and having counted on Marion's
support, now loudly proclaimed his inconsistency. But to these his answer was equally prompt
and satisfactory. His reasons were true to his principles. He had been governed in his previous
views by the necessity of the case. With the disappearance of that necessity he recognized
other laws and influences. "Then," said he, "it was war. It is peace now. God has given us
the victory; let us show our gratitude to heaven, which we shall not do by cruelty to man."

The expediency of humanity was always the uppermost sentiment with Marion. A nobler expression
of it never fell from the lips of mortal.

The next anecdote of the legislative career of Marion is one which directly related to himself.
At an early period in the action of the Assembly, after the war, it was deemed advisable to
introduce a bill by which to exempt from legal investigation the conduct of the militia while
the war had lasted. It was thought, justly enough, that, from the nature of the services in
which they were engaged, and the necessities which coerced them, they might need, in numerous
instances, to be sheltered from legal persecution. They had been compelled to war with a heavy
hand, to seize frequently upon private property, and subject the possessions of the citizen
to the exigencies of the community. The necessities of the service being recognized, the Legislature
were ready to justify them; and the Act which was prepared for the purpose, included amongst
others, thus specially exempted, the name of Marion. But, scarcely had it been announced from
the paper, when the venerable man arose, and with flushed cheeks and emphatic brevity, demanded
that his name should be expunged from the catalogue. He declared himself friendly to the Bill--he
believed it to be equally just and necessary; but for his own part, as he was not conscious
of any wrong of which he had been guilty, he was not anxious for any immunity. "If," said he,
"I have given any occasion for complaint, I am ready to answer in property and person. If I
have wronged any man I am willing to make him restitution. If, in a single instance, in the
course of my command, I have done that which I cannot fully justify, justice requires that
I should suffer for it."

So proud was his integrity, so pure and transparent was his happy consciousness of a mind fixed
only on good, and regulated by the sternest rules of virtue, and the nicest instincts of gentleness
and love! The Bill passed into a law, but the name of Marion, omitted at his requisition, is
nowhere present, as showing that he needed other security than that which is afforded to the
meanest citizen under the keenest scrutiny of justice.

Marion did not confine his objections to the continued operation of the Confiscation Act, to
the single instance which we have given. We have reason to believe that his labors to remedy
its hardships, and restrain its severities, were uniform and unremitting. There is no doubt
that he favored the original bill. He considered it a war measure, and necessary to the prosecution
of the war. The propriety of the distinction which he made just after the war was over, obvious
enough to us now, was not so evident at a season when the victors were looking after the division
of the spoils. The subject became one of considerable excitement, and we may say in this place,
that, after time had mollified the popular feeling in some degree, the State admitted the greater
number of the offenders to mercy and restored their estates. But there is reason to believe
that the humane sentiments which Marion taught, were not universal, and met with most violent
opposition. His feelings on the subject were not only declared with frankness, but with warmth
and energy. Dining at the table of Governor Matthews, while the strife was highest, he was
called upon by his Excellency for a toast. Lifting his glass, with a smile, he promptly gave
the following,--"Gentlemen, here's damnation to the Confiscation Act."

Though, in the language of Moultrie, "born a soldier", and yielding so many of his youthful
and maturer years to the habits of the camp and field, there was nothing of a harsh or imperious
nature in his temper or his manner. The deportment of the mere soldier seems to have been his
aversion. He preferred the modest and forbearing carriage which is supposed to belong more
distinctly to civil than to military life. No novelty of situation, no provocation of circumstance,
nothing in the shape of annoyance or disaster, was suffered so to ruffle his mood as to make
him heedless or indifferent to the claims or sensibilities of others. He never conceived that
any of his virtues gave him a right to trespass upon the proprieties of social or public life.
An anecdote is related of him which illustrates the veneration which he entertained for the
regulations of society and law. It appears that, when the war was over, one of his closest
intimates and nearest friends--one whom he had trusted long, and who had shared with him in
all his campaigns, stood within the perils of the law for some offence of which the facts have
not been preserved. Presuming upon his well-known services, and the favor in which he was held
by the public, he refused to submit to the ordinary legal process, and bade defiance to the
sheriff. While maintaining this position, Marion sought him out. He used no argument to convince
the offender of his error, for that, he felt assured, the other sufficiently knew. But he addressed
him in a style, and with words, which conveyed much more than any ordinary argument. "Deliver
yourself," said he, "into the hands of justice--submit to the process of the sheriff, and my
heart and hand are yours as before; --resist,--refuse,--and we are separated for ever." It
need not be said that under such an exhortation the refractory spirit was subdued. How much
to be regretted it is that so few anecdotes have been preserved of his character, illustrating
a life which, according to all testimony, was consistent throughout in a just appreciation
of all that was pure, virtuous and becoming, in the character of the individual man.

Early in the year 1783, the following resolutions passed in the Senate of South Carolina, Marion,
who was a member, not being present at the time:

Senate, South Carolina, February 26, 1783.

"RESOLVED, nem. con., That the thanks of this House be given to Brigadier General Marion, in
his place, as a member of this House, for his eminent and conspicuous services to his country.

"RESOLVED, nem. con., That a gold medal be given to Brigadier General Marion, as a mark of
public approbation for his great, glorious, and meritorious conduct."

Two days after, Marion being in his place in the Senate, the President took occasion to convey
to him the sense of these resolutions, in a neat and highly laudatory speech. He said, among
other things--

"When I consider the occasion which calls me to address you, I am filled with inexpressible
pleasure; but when I reflect on the difficulty of doing justice to your distinguished merit,
I feel my own inefficiency. What sentiments or words shall I make use of equal to the task!
I scarce dare trust my own, especially after what has been said by several honorable persons
on this floor, respecting your great, your glorious, and meritorious conduct; and I most earnestly
wish, for my own sake, for yours, Sir, and for the honor of this House, that I could avail
myself of their eloquence.... Your conduct merits the applause of your countrymen--your courage,
your vigilance, and your abilities have exceeded their most sanguine expectations; and have
answered all their hopes. Whilst the virtue of gratitude shall form a part of our national
character, your important services to this country can never be forgotten," &c.

To this Marion replied with simple brevity:

"MR. PRESIDENT: The approbation which this House have given of my conduct, in the execution
of my duty, gives me very pleasing and heartfelt satisfaction. The honor which they have conferred
on me this day, by their thanks, will be remembered with gratitude. I shall always be ready
to exert my abilities for the good of the state and the liberties of her inhabitants. I thank
you, Sir, for the polite manner in which you have conveyed to me the thanks of the Senate."

Whether the medal was really given, or only voted, is a fact that we have no means of ascertaining.
It is to be feared that the action of the Senate went no farther than the resolution and the
speech. It probably remains a reproach against the republic, in this, as in numerous other
instances, that, knowing what gratitude required, we would yet forego the satisfaction of the
debt. Cheaply, at best, was our debt to Marion satisfied, with a gold medal, or the vote of
one, while Greene received ten thousand guineas and a plantation. We quarrel not with the appropriation
to Greene, but did Marion deserve less from Carolina? Every page of her history answers "No!"

By the Legislative session of 1784, Fort Johnson, in the harbor of Charleston, was fitted up
and garrisoned by the State. In the unstable condition of things, so immediately after the
war, some such fortress might well be deemed essential to the security of the port. Marion
was appointed Commandant of the Fort, with an annual salary of 500 Pounds. The office was in
all probability made for him. His necessities were known, and its salary was intended to compensate
him for his losses during the war. But the duties of the office were nominal. Even its possible
uses soon ceased to be apparent; and, with a daily increasing sense of security, the people
murmured at an appropriation which they considered unnecessarily burdensome. The common mind
could not well perceive that the salary was not so much yielded for what was expected of the
office, as for what had already been performed. It was not given for present, but for past
services. It was the payment of a debt incurred, not a simple appropriation for the liquidation
of one growing out of current performances. Legislative reformers waged constant war against
it, and it was finally cut down to five hundred dollars. A smile of fortune,--one of the fairest
perhaps, that had ever shone on our hero,--just then relieved him from the mortifying necessity
of holding a sinecure which his fellow citizens pronounced an encumbrance. It had been observed
by his friends that there was a lady of good family and considerable wealth, who appeared to
take a more than ordinary interest in hearing of his exploits. Modest and reserved himself,
Marion was not conscious of the favorable impression which he had made upon this lady. It was
left for others to discover the state of her affections. They remarked the delight with which, like

    "The gentle lady wedded to the Moor,"

she listened to the tale of his achievements, his

    "Hair-breadth 'scapes in th' imminent deadly breach,
    Of being taken by the insolent foe."--

and they augured favorably of the success of any desire which he might express to make her
the sharer in his future fortunes. On this hint he spake. Miss Mary Videau, like himself, came
of the good old Huguenot stock, the virtues of which formed our theme in the opening chapter
of this narrative. He proposed to her and was accepted. Neither of them was young. It was not
in the heyday of passion that they loved. The tie that bound them sprang from an affection
growing out of a just appreciation of their mutual merits. She is reported to have somewhat
resembled him as well in countenance as character. She certainly shared warmly in his interests
and feelings. She readily conformed to his habits no less than his wishes--partook of his amusements,
shared his journeys--which were frequent--and still, in his absence, could listen with as keen
a zest to his praises, as before their marriage. During the summer months, it was his almost
yearly custom to retire to the mountains of the interior. She was always his companion. On
such occasions, he was guilty of a piece of military ostentation of which nobody could have
accused him while a military man. He had preserved carefully, as memorials of an eventful history,
his marquee, camp bed, and cooking utensils, just as he had done while in the Brigade, during
the last twelve months of his military life. These were carefully taken with him; and, with
his faithful servant Oscar, and his two sumpter mules, were still the companions of his wanderings.
They were coupled no doubt with many associations as interesting to his heart as they were
trying to his experience. They were, perhaps, doubly precious, as they constituted the sum
total of all that he had gathered--besides an honorable fame--from his various campaignings.

The marriage of Marion, like that of Washington, was without fruits. This may have baffled
some hopes, and in some degree qualified his happiness, but did not impair his virtues. He
adopted the son of a relative, to whom he gave his own name, in the hope of perpetuating it
in the family, but even this desire has been defeated, since the heir thus chosen, though blessed
with numerous children, was never so fortunate as to own a son.

In the decline of life, in the modest condition of the farmer, Marion seems to have lived among
his neighbors, very much as the ancient patriarch, surrounded by his flock. He was honored
and beloved by all. His dwelling was the abode of content and cheerful hospitality. Its doors
were always open; and the chronicler records that it had many chambers. Here the stranger found
a ready welcome, and his neighbors a friendly counsellor, to the last. His active habits were
scarcely lessened in the latter years of life. His agricultural interests were managed judiciously,
and his property underwent annual increase. Nor did his domestic interests and declining years
prevent him from serving the public still. He still held a commission in the militia, and continued
to represent the parish of St. John's, in the Senate of the State. In May, 1790, we find him
sitting as a member of the Convention for forming the State Constitution; but from this period
he withdrew from public life, and, in 1794, after the reorganization of the State militia,
he resigned his commission in that service to which he had done so much honor. On this occasion
he was addressed by an assembly of the citizens of Georgetown, through a special committee
of four, in the following language.*

     * The committee consisted of Messrs. William D. James,
     Robert Brownfield, Thomas Mitchell, and Joseph Blythe.--

"CITIZEN GENERAL--At the present juncture, when the necessity of public affairs requires the
military of this State to be organized anew, to repel the attacks of an enemy from whatever
quarter they may be forced upon us; we, the citizens of the district of Georgetown, finding
you no longer at our head, have agreed to convey to you our grateful sentiments for your former
numerous services. In the decline of life, when the merits of the veteran are too often forgotten,
we wish to remind you that yours are still fresh in the remembrance of your fellow citizens.
Could it be possible for men who have served and fought under you, to be now forgetful of that
General, by whose prudent conduct their lives have been saved and their families preserved
from being plundered by a rapacious enemy? We mean not to flatter you. At this time it is impossible
to suspect it. Our present language is the language of freemen, expressing only sentiments
of gratitude. Your achievements may not have sufficiently swelled the historic page. They were
performed by those who could better wield the sword than the pen--by men whose constant dangers
precluded them from the leisure, and whose necessities deprived them of the common implements
of writing. But this is of little moment. They remain recorded in such indelible characters
upon our minds, that neither change of circumstances, nor length of time, can efface them.
Taught by us, our children shall hereafter point out the places, and say, 'HERE, General Marion,
posted to advantage, made a glorious stand in defence of the liberties of his country--THERE,
on disadvantageous ground, retreated to save the lives of his fellow citizens.' What could
be more glorious for the General, commanding freemen, than thus to fight, and thus to save
the lives of his fellow soldiers? Continue, General, in peace, to till those acres which you
once wrested from the hands of an enemy. Continue to enjoy dignity accompanied with ease, and
to lengthen out your days blessed with the consciousness of conduct unaccused of rapine or
oppression, and of actions ever directed by the purest patriotism."

The artless language of this address was grateful to the venerable patriot. In its truth and
simplicity lay its force and eloquence. It had truly embodied in a single sentence the noble
points of his career and character. He lived in the delightful consciousness of a pure mind,
free from accusation--and no higher eulogy could be conferred upon the captain of citizen soldiers,
than to say, he never wantonly exposed their lives, but was always solicitous of their safety.
To this address his answer was verbal. He no longer used the pen. The feebleness of nature
was making itself understood. That he felt himself failing may be inferred from his withdrawal
from all public affairs. But his mind was cheerful and active to the last. He still saw his
friends and neighbors, and welcomed their coming--could still mount his horse and cast his
'eye over his acres.' The progress of decline, in his case, was not of that humiliating kind,
by which the faculties of the intellect are clouded, and the muscles of the body made feeble
and incompetent. He spoke thoughtfully of the great concerns of life, of death, and of the
future; declared himself a Christian, a humble believer in all the vital truths of religion.
As of the future he entertained no doubt, so of the awful transition through the valley and
shadow of death, he had no fear. "Death may be to others," said he, "a leap in the dark, but
I rather consider it a resting-place where old age may throw off its burdens." He died, peaceful
and assured, with no apparent pain, and without regret, at his residence in St. John's parish,
on the 27th day of February, 1795, having reached the mature and mellow term of sixty-three
years. His last words declared his superiority to all fears of death; "for, thank God," said
he, "I can lay my hand on my heart and say that, since I came to man's estate, I have never
intentionally done wrong to any."

Thus died Francis Marion, one of the noblest models of the citizen soldier that the world has
ever produced. Brave without rashness, prudent without timidity, firm without arrogance, resolved
without rudeness, good without cant, and virtuous without presumption. His mortal remains are
preserved at Belle-Isle, in St. John's parish. The marble slab which covers them bears the
following inscription:--"Sacred to the memory of Brigadier-General Francis Marion, who departed
this life on the 29th of Feb., 1795, in the sixty-third year of his age, deeply regretted by
all his fellow citizens. History will record his worth, and rising generations embalm his memory,
as one of the most distinguished patriots and heroes of the American Revolution; which elevated
his native country to honor and Independence, and secured to her the blessings of liberty and
peace. This tribute of veneration and gratitude is erected in commemoration of the noble and
disinterested virtues of the citizen, and the gallant exploits of the soldier, who lived without
fear, and died without reproach."

This inscription was the tribute of an individual, not of the country. The State of South Carolina
has conferred his name upon one of its district divisions. But a proper gratitude, not to speak
of policy, would seem to require more

                        "If it be we love
    His fame and virtues, it were well, methinks,
    To link them with his name i' the public eye,
    That men, who in the paths of gainful trade,
    Do still forget the venerable and good,
    May have such noble monitor still nigh,
    And, musing at his monument, recall,
    Those precious memories of the deeds of one
    Whose life were the best model for their sons."

[End of original text.]

Appendix A. Notes on the electronic text.

The great majority of changes in this electronic edition, from the original, are in spelling
(some words are spelled both ways in the original). To wit:

  partizan :: partisan.
  merchandize :: merchandise.
  duresse :: duress.
  ancle :: ankle.
  swamp-fox :: swamp fox.  (The modern spelling.)
  co-operate :: cooperate.
  bivouack :: bivouac.
  head-quarters :: headquarters.
  secresy :: secrecy.
  patrole :: patrol.

A number of spellings which might be considered errors, and might not, have been retained,
where they are less likely to interfere with reading.

When the true facts were known, either from context or outside reading, a few other errors
were corrected. A couple are footnoted in the text. Otherwise, the larger changes are:

  Chapter 5 (p. 59 of the original):  "Weems, in his life of our author"
    has been changed to "Weems, in his life of our subject".

  Chapter 6 (p. 80):  "while the second North Carolina regiment"
    has been changed to "while the second South Carolina regiment".

  Chapter 14, last paragraph (p. 239):  "Mrs. Moultrie"
    has been changed to "Mrs. Motte".

These errors are not merely represented here for their scholastic interest, but also to give
the reader an appreciation of the types of errors which Simms was frequently subject to make.
Many have most certainly not been caught--if I had not lived in the Waxhaw area, I certainly
would not have known of the error (footnoted in the text) which replaced 'Waxhaw' with 'Warsaw'--two
very different regions. Names are particularly prone to error, not only by Simms, but from
the whole revolutionary era in the South--many of the people were only semi-literate, if literate
at all, and many of the names have been spelled several, even a dozen ways--sometimes even
by the individual named. For all this, the errors of Simms are generally minor, and will not
prevent the reader from a true appreciation of both Marion and Simms.

Alan R. Light, Birmingham, Alabama. December, 1996.