The first interest of the voyagers was in the inhabitants of this delightful land.  They found
them well built, athletic-looking men, most of them young, with handsome bodies and intelligent
faces.  Columbus, eager to begin his missionary work, gave them some red caps and some glass
beads, with which he found them so delighted that he had good hopes of making converts, and
from which he argued that "they were a people who would better be freed and converted to our
Holy Faith by love than by force," which sentence of his contains within itself the whole missionary
spirit of the time.  These natives, who were the freest people in the world, were to be "freed";
freed or saved from the darkness of their happy innocence and brought to the light of a religion
that had just evolved the Inquisition; freed by love if possible, and by red caps and glass
beads; if not possible, then freed by force and with guns; but freed they were to be at all
costs.  It is a tragic thought that, at the very first impact of the Old World upon this Eden
of the West, this dismal error was set on foot and the first links in the chain of slavery
forged.  But for the moment nothing of it was perceptible; nothing but red caps and glass beads,
and trinkets and toys, and freeing by love. The sword that Columbus held out to them, in order
to find out if they knew the use of weapons, they innocently grasped by the blade and so cut
their fingers; and that sword, extended with knowledge and grasped with fearless ignorance,
is surely an emblem of the spread of civilisation and of its doubtful blessings in the early
stages.  Let us hear Columbus himself, as he recorded his first impression of Guanahani:

     "Further, it appeared to me that they were a very poor people, in
     everything.  They all go naked as their mothers gave them birth, and
     the women also, although I only saw one of the latter who was very
     young, and all those whom I saw were young men, none more than
     thirty years of age.  They were very well built with very handsome
     bodies, and very good faces.  Their hair was almost as coarse as
     horses' tails, and short, and they wear it over the eyebrows, except
     a small quantity behind, which they wear long and never cut.  Some
     paint themselves blackish, and they are of the colour of the
     inhabitants of the Canaries, neither black nor white, and some paint
     themselves white, some red, some whatever colour they find: and some
     paint their faces, some all the body, some only the eyes, and some
     only the nose.  They do not carry arms nor know what they are,
     because I showed them swords and they took them by the edge and
     ignorantly cut themselves.  They have no iron: their spears are
     sticks without iron, and some of them have a fish's tooth at the end
     and others have other things.  They are all generally of good
     height, of pleasing appearance and well built: I saw some who had
     indications of wounds on their bodies, and I asked them by signs if
     it was that, and they showed me that other people came there from
     other islands near by and wished to capture them and they defended
     themselves: and I believed and believe, that they come here from the
     continental land to take them captive.  They must be good servants
     and intelligent, as I see that they very quickly say all that is
     said to them, and I believe that they would easily become
     Christians, as it appeared to me that they had no sect.  If it
     please our Lord, at the time of my departure, I will take six of
     them from here to your Highnesses that they may learn to speak.
     I saw no beast of any kind except parrots on this island."

