 It is moral truth that both sets
  us free and demonstrates
  our freedom, and that makes harmony possible
  between the mechanical theory
  of science and the teleological
  conception of philosophy. The scientific
  understanding would
  plunge us into determinism and agnosticism;
  from these, faith in the moral law alone can deliver
  us. In this sense Kant destroyed
  knowledge to make room for a rational faith in a supersensible world,
to save the independence and dignity of the human self and the spiritual
values of his people.

  

In claiming a place for the autonomous personality in what appeared to be a
mechanical universe, Kant gave voice to some of the deeper yearnings of the age.
The German Enlightenment, the new humanism, mysticism, pietism, and
the faith-philosophy were all interested in the human soul, and unwilling
to sacrifice it to the demands of a rationalistic science or metaphysics.

In seeking to rescue it, the great criticist, piloted by the moral
law, steered his course between the rocks of rationalism, sentimentalism,
and scepticism.

It was his solution of the controversy between the head and the heart
that influenced Fichte, Schelling, and Schleiermacher. They differed from
Kant and among themselves in many respects, but they all glorified
the spirit, Geist, as the living, active element of reality, and they
all rejected the intellect as the source of ultimate truth.

  
  They followed him in his anti-intellectualism, but they did not avoid,
as he did, the attractive doctrine of an inner intuition; according to them
we can somehow grasp the supersensible in an inner experience which Fichte
called intellectual, Schelling artistic, Schleiermacher religious.
The bankruptcy of the intelligence was overcome in their systems
by the discovery of a faculty that revealed to them the living, dynamic
nature of the universe.
  

They were all more or less influenced by the romantic currents of the
times, seeking with Herder and Jacobi an approach to the heart of things
other than through the categories of logic. Like Lessing and Goethe,
they were also attracted to the pantheistic teaching of Spinoza, though
rejecting its rigid determinism so far as it might affect the human
will.

They likewise accepted the idea of development which the leaders of
German literature, Lessing, Herder, and Goethe, had already opposed
to the unhistorical Aufklärung, and which came to play such a prominent
part in the great system of Hegel.

  
  
  
  
  Johann Gottlieb Fichte was born in Ramenau,
  Oberlausitz, May 19, 1762, the son
  of a poor weaver. Through
  the generosity of a nobleman, the gifted lad was enabled to follow his intellectual
bent; after attending the schools at Meissen and Schulpforta he studied
theology at the universities of Jena, Leipzig, and Wittenberg with
the purpose of entering the ministry.

His poverty frequently compelled him to interrupt his studies by accepting
private tutorships in families, so that he never succeeded in preparing
him self for the examinations. In 1790 he became acquainted with Kant's
philosophy, which two students had asked him to expound to them,
and to which he now devoted himself with feverish zeal.

It revolutionized his entire mode of thought and determined the course of
his life.

The anonymous publication of his book, Attempt at a Critique of all
Revelation, in 1792, written from the Kantian point of view and mistaken
at first for a work of the great criticist, won him fame and a professorship
at Jena (1794).

Here, in the intellectual centre of Germany, Fichte became the eloquent exponent
of the new idealism, which aimed at the reform of life as well as of Wissenschaft;
he not only taught philosophy, but preached it, as Kuno Fischer has
aptly said.

During the Jena period he laid the foundations for his "Science of Knowledge"
(Wissenschaftslehre) which he presented in numerous works: The Conception
of the Science of Knowledge, 1794; The Foundation of the Entire Science
of Knowledge, 1794; The Foundation of Natural Rights, 1796; The System
of Ethics, 1798--(all these translated by Kroeger); the two Introductions
to the Science of Knowledge, 1797 (trans. by Kroeger in Journal of
Speculative Philosophy).

The appearance of an article Concerning the Ground of our Belief in a
Divine World-Order, 1798, in which Fichte seemed to identify God with the
moral world-order, brought down upon him the charge of atheism, against
which he vigorously defended himself in his Appeal to the Public and
a series of other writings.

Full of indignation over the attitude which his government assumed in the
matter, be offered his resignation (1799) and removed to Berlin, where
he presented his philosophical notions in popular public lectures and
in writings which were characterized by clearness, force, and moral
earnestness rather than by their systematic form.

There appeared: The Vocation of Man, 1800 (translated by Dr. Smith); A Sun-Clear
Statement concerning the Nature of the New Philosophy, 1801 (trans. by Kroeger
in Journal of Speculative Philosophy); The Nature of the Scholar, 1806 (trans.
by Smith); Characteristics of the Present Age, 1806 (trans. by Smith);
The Way towards the Blessed Life, 1806 (trans. by Smith). After the overthrow
of Prussia by Napoleon, in 1806, Fichte fled from Berlin to Königsberg
and Sweden, but returned when peace was declared in 1807, and delivered
his celebrated Addresses to the German Nation, 1807-08, in which he
sought to arouse the German people to a consciousness of their national
mission and their duty even while the French army was still occupying
the Prussian capital.

  
  
  
Fichte was appointed professor of philosophy (1810) in the new University
of Berlin, for which he had been invited to construct a plan and in the
establishment of which he took a lively interest.

During the last period of his life he devoted himself to the development
of his thoughts in systematic form and wrote a number of books;
most of these were published after his death, which occurred January 27,
1814. Among them we mention: General Outline of the Science of Knowledge,
1810 (trans. by Smith); The Facts of Consciousness, 1813; Theory
of the State, published 1820.

The Complete Works, edited by his son, J.H. Fichte, appeared 1843-46.
New editions of particular works are now appearing.

The world for Fichte is at bottom a spiritual order, the revelation
of a self-determining ego or reason; hence the science of the ego,
or reason, the Wissenschaftslehre, is the key to all knowledge, and
we can understand nature and man only when we have caught the secret
of the self-active ego.

  
  
  Philosophy must, therefore, be Wissenschaftslehre, for in it all natural and
mental sciences find their ultimate roots; they can yield genuine knowledge
only when and in so far as they are based on the principles of the Science
of Knowledge--mere empirical sciences having no real cognitive value. The
ego-principle itself, however, without which there could be no knowledge,
cannot be grasped by the ordinary discursive understanding with its
spatial, temporal, and causal categories.

Kant is right: if we were limited to the scientific intellect, we could never
rise above the conception of a phenomenal order absolutely ruled by
the causal law.

But there is another source of knowledge: in an act of inner vision or intellectual
intuition, which is itself an act of freedom, we become conscious of
the universal moral purpose; the law of duty or the categorical imperative
commands us to be free persons.

We cannot refuse to accept this law without abandoning ourselves as
persons, without conceiving ourselves as things, or mere products of
nature; the choice of one's philosophy, therefore, depends upon what
kind of man one is--upon one's values, upon one's will.

  

The type of man who is a slave of things, who cannot raise himself out
of the causal mechanism, who is not free, will never be able to conceive
himself otherwise than as a cog in a wheel.

Fichte accepts the ego, or spirit, as the ultimate and absolute principle,
because it alone can give our life worth and meaning. Thus he grounds
his entire philosophy upon a moral imperative which presents itself
to the ego in an inner vision. He also tells us that we can become
immediately aware of the pure activity of the ego, of our free action,
in a similar act of intellectual intuition.

  
But we cannot know this free act unless we perform it ourselves; no one
can understand the idealistic philosophy who is not free; hence philosophy
begins with an act of freedom--im Anfang war die Tat.

In order that we may rise to free action, opposition is needed, and
this we get in the spatial-temporal world of phenomena, or nature,
which the ego creates for itself in order to have resistance to overcome.

  
  
  Fichte conceives of nature as "the
  material of our duty," as the obstacle against
  which the ego can exercise its freedom. There
  could be no free action without something to act upon, and there could be no purposive
action without a world in which everything happens according to law;
and such a causal world we have in our phenomenal order, which is the product
of the absolute spiritual principle. By the ego Fichte did not mean the
subjective ego, the particular individual self with all its idiosyncrasies,
but the universal ego, the reason that manifests itself in all conscious
individuals as universal and necessary truth.

  
In his earlier period he did not define his thought very carefully, but in time
the absolute ego came to be conceived as the principle of all life
and consciousness, as universal life, and ultimately identified with
God.

  
  

His philosophy is, therefore, not subjective idealism, although it was
so misinterpreted, but objective idealism; nature is not the creation of
the particular individual ego, but the phenomenal expression, or
reflection, in the subject of the universal spiritual principle.

  

Upon such an idealistic world-view Fichte based the ethical teachings
through which he exercised a lasting influence upon the German people
and the history of human thought.

The universal ego is a moral ego, an ego with an ethical purpose,
that realizes itself in nature and in man; it is, therefore, the vocation
of man to obey the voice of duty and to free himself from the bondage
of nature, to be a person, not a thing, to coöperate in the realization
of the eternal purpose which is working itself out in the history
of humanity, to sacrifice himself for the ideal of freedom.

  
  Every individual has his particular place in which to labor for the social
whole; how to do it, his conscience will tell him without fail. And so,
too, the German people has its peculiar place in civilization, its
unique contribution to make in the struggle of the human race for
the development of free personality.
  

  
  
  It is Germany's mission to regain its nationality, in order that it may take
the philosophical leadership in the work of civilization, and to
establish a State based upon personal liberty, a veritable kingdom
of justice, such as has never appeared on earth, which shall realize
freedom based upon the equality of all who bear the human form.

The Fichtean philosophy holds the mirror up to its age. With the Enlightenment
it glorifies reason, the free personality, nationality, humanity, civilization,
and progress; in this regard it expresses the spirit of all modern philosophy.
It goes beyond the Aufklärung in emphasizing the living, moving,
developing nature of reality; for it, life and consciousness constitute
the essence of things, and universal life reveals itself in a progressive
history of mankind.

  
  Moreover, the dynamic spiritual process cannot be comprehended by
conceptual thought, by the categories of a rationalistic science and philosophy,
but only by itself, by the living experience of a free agent. In the
categorical imperative, and not in logical reasonings, the individual
becomes aware of his destiny; in the sense of duty, the love of truth,
loyalty to country, respect for the rights of man, and reverence for
ideals, spirit speaks to spirit and man glimpses the eternal.

Among the elements in this idealism that appealed to the Romanticists were its
anti-intellectualism, its intuition, the high value it placed upon
the personality, its historical viewpoint, and its faith in the uniqueness
of German culture.

  

They welcomed the Wissenschaftslehre as a valuable ally, and exaggerated
those features of it which seemed to chime with their own views. The
ego which Fichte conceives as universal reason becomes for them
the subjective empirical self, the unique personality, in which the
unconscious, spontaneous, impulsive, instinctive phase constitutes
the original element, the more extravagant among them transforming
the rational moral ego into a romantic ego, an ego full of mystery
and caprice, and even a lawless ego.

  

Such an ego is read into nature; for, filled with occult magic forces, nature
can be understood only by the sympathetic divining insight of the
poetic genius.

And so, too, authority and tradition, as representing the instinctive
and historical side of social life, come into their own again.

Fichte's chief interest was centred upon the ego; nature he regarded
as a product of the absolute ego in the individual consciousness,
intended as a necessary obstacle for the free will. Without opposition
the self cannot act; without overcoming resistance it cannot become
free.

  
  
  

In order to make free action possible, to enable the ego to realize
its ends, nature must be what it is, an order ruled by the iron
law of causality.

  
  This cheerless conception
  
  of nature--which, however, was
  not Fichte's last word
  on the subject, since he afterward came to conceive it as the revelation
of universal life, or the expression of a pantheistic God--did not
attract Romanticism.

  
  It was Schelling, the erstwhile follower and admirer of Fichte,
who turned his attention to the philosophy of nature and so more thoroughly
satisfied the romantic yearnings of the age.

Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling was born at Leonberg, Würtemberg,
January 27, 1775, the son of a learned clergyman and writer on theology.

  
  
  

He was a precocious child and made rapid progress in his studies, entering the
Theological Seminary at Tübingen at the age of fifteen. Between the
ages of nineteen and twenty-two he wrote a number of able treatises
in the spirit of the new idealism, and was recognized as the most
talented pupil of Fichte and his best interpreter.

After the completion of his course at the University (1795), he
became the tutor and companion of two young noblemen with whom he remained
for two years (1796-98) at the University of Leipzig, during which time he
devoted himself to the study of mathematics, physics, and medicine,
and published a number of philosophical articles.

  

In 1798 he received a call to a professorship at Jena, where Fichte, Schiller,
Wilhelm Schlegel, and Hegel became his colleagues, and where he entered into friendly
relations with the Romantic circle of which Caroline Schlegel, who
afterward became his wife, was a shining light.

This was the most productive period of his life; during the next few years he
developed his own system of philosophy and gave to the world his most
brilliant writings.
 All this by way of prelude to a protest against the exaggerative ecstasies
indulged in by many civilians when discussing the air services. The
British pilots are competent and daring, but they would be the last to
claim an undue share of war's glory.