Up and after a little while with my workmen I went to my office, and then to our sitting all
the morning.  At noon with Mr. Creede, whom I found at my house, to the Trinity House, to a
great dinner there, by invitacion, and much company.  It seems one Captain Evans makes his
Elder Brother's dinner to-day.  Among other discourses one Mr. Oudant, secretary to the late
Princesse of Orange, did discourse of the convenience as to keeping the highways from being
deep, by their horses, in Holland (and Flanders where the ground is as miry as ours is), going
in their carts and, waggons as ours in coaches, wishing the same here as an expedient to make
the ways better, and I think there is something in it, where there is breadth enough.  So we
parted, and I to my office, where after sending away my letters to the post I do hear that
Sir J. Minnes is resolved to turn part of our entry into a room and to divide the back yard
between Sir W. Pen and him, which though I do not see how it will annoy me much particularly,
yet it do trouble me a little for fear it should, but I do not see how it can well unless in
his desiring my coming to my back stairs, but for that I shall do as well as himself or Sir
W. Pen, who is most concerned to look after it.

2nd (Lord's day).  Lay long with pleasure talking with my wife, in whom I never had greater
content, blessed be God! than now, she continuing with the same care and thrift and innocence,
so long as I keep her from occasions of being otherwise, as ever she was in her life, and keeps
the house as well.  To church, where Mr. Mills, after he had read the service, and shifted
himself as he did the last day, preached a very ordinary sermon.  So home to dinner with my
wife.  Then up into my new rooms which are, almost finished, and there walked with great content
talking with my wife till church time, and then to church, and there being a lazy preacher
I slept out the sermon, and so home, and after visiting the two Sir Williams, who are both
of them mending apace, I to my office preparing things against to-morrow for the Duke, and
so home and to bed, with some pain, .  .  .  having taken cold this morning in sitting too
long bare-legged to pare my corns.  My wife and I spent a good deal of this evening in reading
"Du Bartas' Imposture" and other parts which my wife of late has taken up to read, and is very
fine as anything I meet with.

3d.
     She died July, 1665 (see "Memoires de Grammont," chap. viii.).
     Peter Cunningham thinks that this banishment was only temporary,
     for, according to the Grammont Memoirs, she was in town when the
     Russian ambassador was in London, December, 1662, and January, 1662-
     63.  "It appears from the books of the Lord Steward's office .  .  .
     that Lord Chesterfield set out for the country on the 12th May,
     1663, and, from his 'Short Notes' referred to in the Memoirs before
     his Correspondence, that he remained at Bretby, in Derbyshire, with
     his wife, throughout the summer of that year"  Thence with Mr. Creede and Mr. Moore (who is
got upon his legs and come to see my Lord) to Wilkinson's, and there I did
give them and Mr. Howe their dinner of roast beef, cost me 5s., and after
dinner carried Mr. Moore as far as Paul's in a coach, giving him direction
about my law business, and there set him down, and I home and among my
workmen, who happened of all sorts to meet to their making an end of a
great many jobbs, so that after to-morrow I shall have but a little
plastering and all the painting almost to do, which was good content to
me.  So they took leave for the night, and I to my
business, and then home to my wife and to supper and bed, my pain being
going away.  So by God's great blessing my mind is in good condition of
quiet.

4th.  Lay long talking pleasantly with my wife in bed, it having rained, and do still, very
much all night long.  Up and to the office, where we sat till noon.  But there will be no great
miss of him for all that.  Dined at home with my wife, and all the afternoon among my workmen,
and at night to my office to do business there, and then to see Sir W. Pen, who is still sick,
but his pain less than it was.  He took occasion to talk with me about Sir J. Minnes's intention
to divide the entry and the yard, and so to keep him out of the yard, and forcing him to go
through the garden to his house. Which he is vexed at, and I am glad to see that Sir J. Minnes
do use him just as he do me, and so I perceive it is not anything extraordinary his carriage
to me in the matter of our houses, for this is worse than anything he has done to me, that
he should give order for the stopping up of his way to his house without so much as advising
with him or letting of him know it, and I confess that it is very highly and basely done of
him. So to my office again, and after doing business there, then home to supper and to bed.

5th.  Up and with my painters painting my dining room all day long till night, not stirring
out at all.  Only in the morning my.  Lady Batten did send to speak with me, and told me very
civilly that she did not desire, nor hoped I did, that anything should pass between us but
what was civill, though there was not the neighbourliness between her and my wife that was
fit to be, and so complained of my maid's mocking of her; when she called "Nan" to her maid
within her own house, my maid Jane in the garden overheard her, and mocked her, and some other
such like things she told me, and of my wife's speaking unhandsomely of her; to all which I
did give her a very respectfull answer, such as did please her, and am sorry indeed that this
should be, though I do not desire there should be any acquaintance between my wife and her.
But I promised to avoid such words and passages for the future.  So home, and by and by Sir
W. Pen did send for me to his bedside; and tell me how really Sir J. Minnes did resolve to
have one of my rooms, and that he was very angry and hot, and said he would speak to the Duke.
To which, knowing that all this was but to scare me, and to get him to put off his resolution
of making up the entry, I did tell him plainly how I did not value his anger more, than he
did mine, and that I should be willing to do what the Duke commanded, and I was sure to have
justice of him, and that was all I did say to him about it, though I was much vexed, and after
a little stay went home; and there telling my wife she did put me into heart, and resolve to
offer him to change lodgings, and believe that that will one way or other bring us to some
end in this dispute.  At night I called up my maids, and schooled Jane, who did answer me so
humbly and drolly about it, that though I seemed angry, I was much pleased with her and [my]
wife also.  So at night to bed.

6th.  At the office forenoon and afternoon till late at night, very busy answering my Lord
Treasurer's letter, and my mind troubled till we come to some end with Sir J. Minnes about
our lodgings, and so home.  And after some pleasant discourse and supper to bed, and in my
dream much troubled by being with Will. Swan, a great fanatic, my old acquaintance, and, methought,
taken and led up with him for a plotter, all our discourse being at present about the late
plots.  Between times, Mr. Lee, who had been much in Spain, did tell me pretty stories of the
customs and other things, as I asked him, of the country, to my great content. Thence by coach
to White Hall, and at my Lord's lodgings did write a letter, he not being within, to tell him
how things went, and so away again, only hearing that Mrs. Sarah is married, I did go up stairs
again and joy her and kiss her, she owning of it; and it seems it is to a cook. I am glad she
is disposed of, for she grows old, and is very painfull,--[painstaking]--and one I have reason
to wish well for her old service to me.  Then to my brother's, where my wife, by my order,
is tonight to stay a night or two while my house is made clean, and thence home, where I am
angry to see, instead of the house made in part clean, all the pewter goods and other things
are brought up to scouring, which makes the house ten times worse, at which I was very much
displeased, but cannot help it. So to my office to set down my journal, and so home and to bed.

8th.  All the morning sitting at the office, and after that dined alone at home, and so to
the office again till 9 o'clock, being loth to go home, the house is so dirty, and my wife
at my brother's.  So home and to bed.

9th (Lord's day).  Lay alone a good while, my mind busy about pleading to-morrow to the Duke
if there shall be occasion for this chamber that I lie in against Sir J., Minnes.  Then to
dinner to my brother's, only he and my wife, and after dinner to see Mr. Moore, who is pretty
well, and he and I to St. Gregory's, where I escaped a great fall down the staires of the gallery:
so into a pew there and heard Dr. Ball make a very good sermon, though short of what I expected,
as for the most part it do fall out.  So home with Mr. Moore to his chamber, and after a little
talk I walked home to my house and staid at Sir W. Batten's.  Till late at night with him and
Sir J. Minnes, with whom we did abundance of most excellent discourse of former passages of
sea commanders and officers of the navy, and so home and to bed, with my mind well at ease
but only as to my chamber, which I fear to lose.

10th.  Thence towards my brother's; met with Jack Cole in Fleet Street, and he and I went into
his cozen Mary Cole's (whom I never saw since she was married), and drank a pint of wine and
much good discourse.  I found him a little conceited, but he had good things in him, and a
man may know the temper of the City by him, he being of a general conversation, and can tell
how matters go; and upon that score I will encourage his acquaintance.  Thence to my brother's,
and taking my wife up, carried her to Charing Cross, and there showed her the Italian motion,
much after the nature of what I showed her a while since in Covent Garden. Their puppets here
are somewhat better, but their motions not at all. Thence by coach to my Lady's, and, hiding
my wife with Sarah below, I went up and heard some musique with my Lord, and afterwards discoursed
with him alone, and so good night to him and below, having sent for Mr. Creed, had thought
to have shown my wife a play before the King, but it is so late that we could not, and so we
took coach, and taking up Sarah at my brother's with their night geare we went home, and I
to my office to settle matters, and so home and to bed.  This morning in the Duke's chamber
Sir J. Minnes did break to me his desire about my chamber, which I did put off to another time
to discourse of, he speaking to me very kindly to make me the less trouble myself, hoping to
save myself and to contrive something or other to pleasure him as well, though I know not well
what.

11th.  All the morning sitting at the office, and then to dinner with my wife, and so to the
office again (where a good while Mr. Bland was with me, telling me very fine things in merchandize,
which, but that the trouble of my office do so cruelly hinder me, I would take some pains in)
till late at night.  Towards the evening I, as I have done for three or four nights, studying
something of Arithmetique, which do please me well to see myself come forward.  So home, to
supper, and to bed.

12th.  At my office most of the morning, after I had done among my painters, and sent away
Mr. Shaw and Hawly, who came to give me a visit this morning.  Shaw it seems is newly re-married
to a rich widow.  At noon dined at home with my wife, and by and by, by my wife's appointment
came two young ladies, sisters, acquaintances of my wife's brother's, who are desirous to wait
upon some ladies, and proffer their service to my wife. The youngest, indeed, hath a good voice,
and sings very well, besides other good qualitys; but I fear hath been bred up with too great
liberty for my family, and I fear greater inconveniences of expenses, and my wife's liberty
will follow, which I must study to avoid till I have a better purse; though, I confess, the
gentlewoman, being pretty handsome, and singing, makes me have a good mind to her.  Anon I
took them by coach and carried them to a friend's of theirs, in Lincoln's Inn Fields, and there
I left them and I to the Temple by appointment to my cousin Roger's chamber, where my uncle
Thomas and his son Thomas met us, I having hoped that they would have agreed with me to have
had [it] ended by my cozen Roger, but they will have two strangers to be for them against two
others of mine, and so we parted without doing any thing till the two send me the names of
their arbiters.  Thence I walked home, calling a little in Paul's Churchyard, and, I thank
God, can read and never buy a book, though I have a great mind to it.  From thence, without
drinking a drop of wine, home to my office and there made an end, though late, of my collection
of the prices of masts for these twelve years to this day, in order to the buying of some of
Wood, and I bound it up in painted paper to lie by as a book for future use.  So home and to
supper and to bed, and a little before and after we were in bed we had much talk and difference
between us about my wife's having a woman, which I seemed much angry at, that she should go
so far in it without consideration and my being consulted with.  So to bed.

13th.  Up and began our discontent again and sorely angered my wife, who indeed do live very
lonely, but I do perceive that it is want of work that do make her and all other people think
of ways of spending their time worse, and this I owe to my building, that do not admit of her
undertaking any thing of work, because the house has been and is still so dirty. Cocke, and
myself.  We adjourned to a fortnight hence.  So broke up, and I to see Sir W. Pen, who is now
pretty well, but lies in bed still; he cannot rise to stand.  Then to my office late, and this
afternoon my wife in her discontent sent me a letter, which I am in a quandary what to do,
whether to read it or not, but I purpose not, but to burn it before her face, that I may put
a stop to more of this nature.  But I must think of some way, either to find her some body
to keep her company, or to set her to work, and by employment to take up her thoughts and time.
After doing what I had to do I went home to supper, and there was very sullen to my wife, and
so went to bed and to sleep (though with much ado, my mind being troubled) without speaking
one word to her.

14th.  She begun to talk in the morning and to be friends, believing all this while that. 
I had read her letter, which I perceive by her discourse was full of good counsel, and relating
the reason of her desiring a woman, and how little charge she did intend it to be to me, so
I begun and argued it as full and plain to her, and she to reason it highly to me, to put her
away, and take one of the Bowyers if I did dislike her, that I did resolve when the house is
ready she shall try her for a while; the truth is, I having a mind to have her come for her
musique and dancing.  So up and about my papers all the morning, and her brother coming I did
tell him my mind plain, who did assure me that they were both of the sisters very humble and
very poor, and that she that we are to have would carry herself so.  So I was well contented
and spent part of the morning at my office, and so home and to dinner, and after dinner, finding
Sarah to be discontented at the news of this woman, I did begin in my wife's chamber to talk
to her and tell her that it was not out of unkindness to her, but my wife came up, and I perceive
she is not too reconciled to her whatever the matter is, that I perceive I shall not be able
to keep her, though she is as good a servant (only a little pettish) that ever I desire to
have, and a creditable servant.  So she desired leave to go out to look [for] a service, and
did, for which I am troubled, and fell out highly afterwards with my wife about it.  So to
my office, where we met this afternoon about answering a great letter of my Lord Treasurer's,
and that done to my office drawing up a letter to him, and so home to supper.

15th.  All the morning at the office sitting, dined with my wife pleasantly at home, then among
my painters, and by and by went to my Civil Lawyers about my uncle's suit, and so home again
and saw my painters make an end of my house this night, which is my great joy, and so to my
office and did business till ten at night, and so home and to supper, and after reading part
of Bussy d'Ambois, a good play I bought to-day, to bed.

16th (Lord's day).  About 3 o'clock in the morning waked with a rude noise among Sir J. Minnes
his servants (he not being yet come to his lodgings), who are the rudest people but they that
lived before, one Mrs. Davis, that ever I knew in my life.  To sleep again, and after long
talking pleasantly with my wife, up and to church, where Mrs. Goodyer, now Mrs. Buckworth,
was churched.  I love the woman for her gravity above any in the parish. So home and to dinner
with my wife with great content, and after dinner walked up and down my house, which is now
almost finished, there being nothing to do but the glazier and furniture to put up.  By and
by comes Tom, and after a little talk I with him towards his end, but seeing many strangers
and coaches coming to our church, and finding that it was a sermon to be preached by a probationer
for the Turkey Company,--[The Turkey or Levant Company was established in 1581.]--to be sent
to Smyrna, I returned thither.  And several Turkey merchants filled all the best pews (and
some in ours) in the Church, but a most pitiful sermon it was upon a text in Zachariah, and
a great time he spent to show whose son Zachary was, and to prove Malachi to be the last prophet
before John the Baptist. Home and to see Sir W. Pen, who gets strength, but still keeps his
bed. Then home and to my office to do some business there, and so home to supper and to bed.

17th.  To the Duke's to-day, but he is gone a-hunting, and therefore I to my Lord Sandwich's,
and having spoke a little with him about his businesses, I to Westminster Hall and there staid
long doing many businesses, and so home by the Temple and other places doing the like, and
at home I found my wife dressing by appointment by her woman--[Mrs. Gosnell.]--that I think
is to be, and her other sister being here to-day with her and my wife's brother, I took Mr.
Creed, that came to dine, to an ordinary behind the Change, and there dined together, and after
dinner home and there spent an hour or two till almost dark, talking with my wife, and making
Mrs. Gosnell sing; and then, there being no coach to be got, by water to White Hall; but Gosnell
not being willing to go through bridge, we were forced to land and take water, again, and put
her and her sister ashore at the Temple.  I am mightily pleased with her humour and singing.
So to bed.

18th.  Up and to the office, where Mr. Phillip the lawyer came to me, but I put him off to
the afternoon.  At noon I dined at Sir W. Batten's, Sir John Minnes being here, and he and
I very kind, but I every day expect to pull a crow with him about our lodgings.  My mind troubled
about Gosnell and my law businesses.  So after dinner to Mr. Phillips his chamber, where he
demands an abatement for Piggott's money, which vexes me also, but I will not give it him without
my father's consent, which I will write to him to-night about, and have done it.  Here meeting
my uncle Thomas, he and I to my cozen Roger's chamber, and there I did give my uncle him and
Mr. Philips to be my two arbiters against Mr. Cole and Punt, but I expect no great good of
the matter.  Thence walked home, and my wife came home, having been abroad to-day, laying out
above L12 in linen, and a copper, and a pot, and bedstead, and other household stuff, which
troubles me also, so that my mind to-night is very heavy and divided.  Late at my office, drawing
up a letter to my Lord Treasurer, which we have been long about, and so home, and, my mind
troubled, to bed.

20th.  All the morning sitting at the office, at noon with Mr. Coventry to the Temple to advise
about Field's, but our lawyers not being in the way we went to St. James's, and there at his
chamber dined, and I am still in love more and more with him for his real worth.  I broke to
him my desire for my wife's brother to send him to sea as a midshipman, which he is willing
to agree to, and will do it when I desire it.  Thence by coach homewards, calling at a tavern
in the way (being guided by the messenger in whose custody Field lies), and spoke with Mr.
Smith our messenger about the business, and so home, where I found that my wife had finished
very neatly my study with the former hangings of the diningroom, which will upon occasion serve
for a fine withdrawing room.  So a little to my office and so home, and spent the evening upon
my house, and so to supper and to bed.

21St. Within all day long, helping to put up my hangings in my house in my wife's chamber,
to my great content.  In the afternoon I went to speak to Sir J. Minnes at his lodgings, where
I found many great ladies, and his lodgings made very fine indeed.  At night to supper and
to bed: this night having first put up a spitting sheet, which I find very convenient.  This
day come the King's pleasure-boats from Calais, with the Dunkirk money, being 400,000 pistolles.

22nd.  This morning, from some difference between my wife and Sarah, her maid, my wife and
I fell out cruelly, to my great discontent.  But I do see her set so against the wench, whom
I take to be a most extraordinary good servant, that I was forced for the wench's sake to bid
her get her another place, which shall cost some trouble to my wife, however, before I suffer
to be.  Thence to the office, where I sat all the morning, then dined; Mr. Moore with me, at
home, my wife busy putting her furniture in order.  Then he and I out, and he home and I to
my cozen Roger Pepys to advise about treating with my uncle Thomas, and thence called at the
Wardrobe on Mr. Moore again, and so home, and after doing much business at my office I went
home and caused a new fashion knocker to be put on my door, and did other things to the putting
my house in order, and getting my outward door painted, and the arch.  This day I bought the
book of country dances against my wife's woman Gosnell comes, who dances finely; and there
meeting Mr. Playford he did give me his Latin songs of Mr. Deering's, which he lately printed.
Up, after some talk with my wife, soberly, upon yesterday's difference, and made good friends,
and to church to hear Mr. Mills, and so home, and Mr. Moore and my brother Tom dined with me.
My wife not being well to-day did not rise.  In the afternoon to church again, and heard drowsy
Mr. Graves, and so to see Sir W. Pen, who continues ill in bed, but grows better and better
every day.  Thence to Sir W. Batten's, and there staid awhile and heard how Sir R. Ford's daughter
is married to a fellow without friends' consent, and the match carried on and made up at Will
Griffin's, our doorkeeper's.  So to my office and did a little business, and so home and to
bed.  I talked to my brother to-day, who desires me to give him leave to look after his mistress
still; and he will not have me put to any trouble or obligation in it, which I did give him
leave to do. We saw none of the money, but Mr. Slingsby did show the King, and I did see, the
stamps of the new money that is now to be made by Blondeau's fashion,

     [Peter Blondeau was employed by the Commonwealth to coin their
     money.  Thence
to Mr. Phillips, and so to the Temple, where met my cozen Roger Pepys and
his brother, Dr. John, as my arbitrators against Mr. Cole and Mr. John
Bernard for my uncle Thomas, and we two with them by appointment.  They
began very high in their demands, and my friends, partly being not so well
acquainted with the will, and partly, I doubt, not being so good wits as
they, for which I blame my choosing of relations (who besides that are
equally engaged to stand for them as me), I was much troubled thereat, and
taking occasion to deny without my father's consent to bind myself in a
bond of L2000 to stand to their award, I broke off the business for the
present till I hear and consider further, and so thence by coach (my
cozen, Thomas Pepys, being in another chamber busy all the while, going
along with me) homeward, and I set him down by the way; but, Lord! how he
did endeavour to find out a ninepence to clubb with me for the coach, and
for want was forced to give me a shilling, and how he still cries "Gad!"
and talks of Popery coming in, as all the Fanatiques do, of which I was
ashamed.  So home, finding my poor wife very busy putting things in order,
and so to bed, my mind being very much troubled, and could hardly sleep
all night, thinking how things are like to go with us about Brampton, and
blaming myself for living so high as I do when for ought I know my father
and mother may come to live upon my hands when all is done.

25th.  Up and to the office all the morning, and at noon with the rest, by Mr. Holy, the ironmonger's
invitation, to the Dolphin, to a venison pasty, very good, and rare at this time of the year,
and thence by coach with Mr. Coventry as far as the Temple, and thence to Greatorex's, where
I staid and talked with him, and got him to mend my pocket ruler for me, and so by coach to
my Lord's lodging, where I sat with Mr. Moore by appointment, making up accounts for my Lord
Sandwich, which done he and I and Capt. Ferrers and W. Howe very merry a good while in the
great dining room, and so it being late and my Lord not coming in, I by coach to the Temple,
and thence walked home, and so to my study to do some business, and then home and to bed.

26th.  In the morning to the Temple to my cozen Roger, who now desires that I would excuse
him from arbitrating, he not being able to stand for me as he would do, without appearing too
high against my uncle Thomas, which will raise his clamour.  With this I am very well pleased,
for I did desire it, and so I shall choose other counsel.  Thence home, he being busy that
I could not speak more with him.  All day long till twelve o'clock at night getting my house
in order, my wife putting up the red hangings and bed in her woman's chamber, and I my books
and all other matters in my chamber and study, which is now very pretty.  So to bed.  And after
I had dined, I heard they were coming, and so I walked to the Conduit in the Quarrefowr,

     [In two ordinances of the reign of Edward III., printed in Riley's
     "Memorials of London" (pp. 300, 389), this is called the "Carfukes,"
     which nearly approaches the name of the "Carfax," at Oxford, where
     four ways also met.  So back and to the office,
and there we met and sat till seven o'clock, making a bargain with Mr.
Wood for his masts of New England; and then in Mr. Coventry's coach to the
Temple, but my cozen Roger Pepys not being at leisure to speak to me about
my business, I presently walked home, and to my office till very late
doing business, and so home, where I found my house more and more clear
and in order, and hope in a day or two now to be in very good condition
there and to my full content.  Which God grant!  So to supper and to bed.

28th.  A very hard frost; which is news to us after having none almost these three years. 
Where I staid all day expecting Gosnell's coming, but there came an excuse from her that she
had not heard yet from her mother, but that she will come next week, which I wish she may,
since I must keep one that I may have some pleasure therein. So to my office till late writing
out a copy of my uncle's will, and so home and to bed.

29th.  Here all the morning upon business, and at noon (not going home to dinner, though word
was brought me that Will. Joyce was there, whom I had not seen at my house nor any where else
these three or four months) with Mr. Coventry by his coach as far as Fleet Street, and there
stepped into Madam Turner's, where was told I should find my cozen Roger Pepys, and with him
to the Temple, but not having time to do anything I went towards my Lord Sandwich's.  (In my
way went into Captn. Cuttance's coach, and with him to my Lord's.)  But the company not being
ready I did slip down to Wilkinson's, and having not eat any thing to-day did eat a mutton
pie and drank, and so to my Lord's, where my Lord and Mr. Coventry, Sir Wm.  My wife and I
to bed pretty pleasant, for that her brother brings word that Gosnell, which my wife and I
in discourse do pleasantly call our Marmotte, will certainly come next week without fail, which
God grant may be for the best.

30th (Lord's day).  To church in the morning, and Mr. Mills made a pretty good sermon.  It
is a bitter cold frost to-day.  Dined alone with my wife to-day with great content, my house
being quite clean from top to bottom. In the afternoon I to the French church here

     [The French Protestant Church was founded by Edward VI. in the
     church of St. Anthony's Hospital in Threadneedle Street.  This was
     destroyed in the Great Fire, and rebuilt, but demolished for the
     approaches of the new Royal Exchange.  The church was then removed
     to St. Martin's-le-Grand, but this was also removed in 1888 to make
     room for the new Post Office buildings.]

in the city, and stood in the aisle all the sermon, with great delight hearing a very admirable
sermon, from a very young man, upon the article in our creed, in order of catechism, upon the
Resurrection.  Thence home, and to visit Sir W. Pen, who continues still bed-rid.  Here was
Sir W. Batten and his Lady, and Mrs. Turner, and I very merry, talking of the confidence of
Sir R. Ford's new-married daughter, though she married so strangely lately, yet appears at
church as brisk as can be, and takes place of her elder sister, a maid.  Thence home and to
supper, and then, cold as it is, to my office, to make up my monthly accounts, and I do find
that, through the fitting of my house this month, I have spent in that and kitchen L50 this
month; so that now I am worth but L660, or thereabouts. This being done and fitted myself for
the Duke to-morrow, I went home, and to prayers and to bed.  This day I first did wear a muffe,
being my wife's last year's muffe,

     [The fashion of men wearing muffs appears to have been introduced
     from France in this reign.]

and now I have bought her a new one, this serves me very well.  Thus ends
this month; in great frost; myself and family all well, but my mind much
disordered about my uncle's law business, being now in an order of being
arbitrated between us, which I wish to God it were done.  I am also
somewhat uncertain what to think of my going about to take a woman-servant
into my house, in the quality of a woman for my wife.  My wife promises it
shall cost me nothing but her meat and wages, and that it shall not be
attended with any other expenses, upon which termes I admit of it; for
that it will, I hope, save me money in having my wife go abroad on visits
and other delights; so that I hope the best, but am resolved to alter it,
if matters prove otherwise than I would have them.
                                 DECEMBER
                                   1662

December 1st.  Up and by coach with Sir John Minnes and Sir W. Batten to White Hall to the
Duke's chamber, where, as is usual, my Lord Sandwich and all of us, after his being ready,
to his closett, and there discoursed of matters of the Navy, and here Mr. Coventry did do me
the great kindness to take notice to the Duke of my pains in making a collection of all contracts
about masts, which have been of great use to us.  This done we broke up, and I to the Cockpitt,
with much crowding and waiting, where I saw "The Valiant Cidd"--[Translated from the "Cid"
of Corneille]--acted, a play I have read with great delight, but is a most dull thing acted,
which I never understood before, there being no pleasure in it, though done by Betterton and
by Ianthe, And another fine wench that is come in the room of Roxalana nor did the King or
queen once smile all the whole play, nor any of the company seem to take any pleasure but what
was in the greatness and gallantry of the company.  Thence to my Lord's, and Mr. Moore being
in bed I staid not, but with a link walked home and got thither by 12 o'clock, knocked up my
boy, and put myself to bed.

2nd.  Before I went to the office my wife and I had another falling out about Sarah, against
whom she has a deadly hate, I know not for what, nor can I see but she is a very good servant.
Then to my office, and there sat all the morning, and then to dinner with my wife at home,
and after dinner did give Jane a very serious lesson, against we take her to be our chamber-maid,
which I spoke so to her that the poor girl cried and did promise to be very dutifull and carefull.
So to the office, where we sat as Commissioners for the Chest, and so examined most of the
old accountants to the Chest about it, and so we broke up, and I to my office till late preparing
business, and so home, being cold, and this night first put on a wastecoate.  So to bed.

3rd.  Called up by Commissioner Pett, and with him by water, much against my will, to Deptford,
and after drinking a warm morning draft, with Mr. Wood and our officers measuring all the morning
his New England masts, with which sight I was much pleased for my information, though I perceive
great neglect and indifference in all the King's officers in what they do for the King.  But
I found no fault to him himself, but shall when they come to be read at the Board.  We did
also call at Limehouse to view two Busses that are building, that being a thing we are now
very hot upon.  Our call was to see what dimensions they are of, being 50 feet by the keel
and about 60 tons.  At the Temple spoke with Mr. Turner and Calthrop, and so walked home again,
being in some pain through the cold which I have got to-day by water, which troubles me.  At
the office doing business a good while, and so home and had a posset, and so to bed.

4th.  At the office all the morning setting about business, and after dinner to it again, and
so till night, and then home looking over my Brampton papers against to-morrow that we are
to meet with our counsel on both sides toward an arbitration, upon which I was very late, and
so to bed.

5th.  Up, it being a snow and hard frost, and being up I did call up Sarah, who do go away
to-day or to-morrow.  I paid her her wages, and gave her 10s. myself, and my wife 5s. to give
her.  For my part I think never servant and mistress parted upon such foolish terms in the
world as they do, only for an opinion in my wife that she is ill-natured, in all other things
being a good servant.  The wench cried, and I was ready to cry too, but to keep peace I am
content she should go, and the rather, though I say nothing of that, that Jane may come into
her place.  He is dead, worth L3,000, which I did not expect, he living so high as he did always
and neatly.  He hath given W. Symons his wife L300, and made Will one of his executors.  Thence
to the Temple to my counsel, and thence to Gray's Inn to meet with Mr. Cole but could not,
and so took a turn or two in the garden, being very pleasant with the snow and frost.  Thence
to my brother's, and there I eat something at dinner and transcribed a copy or two of the state
of my uncle's estate, which I prepared last night, and so to the Temple Church, and there walked
alone till 4 or 5 o'clock, and then to my cozen Turner's chamber and staid there, up and down
from his to Calthrop's and Bernard's chambers, till so late, that Mr. Cole not coming, we broke
up for meeting this night, and so taking my uncle Thomas homewards with me by coach, talking
of our desire to have a peace, and set him down at Gracious-street end, and so home, and there
I find Gosnell come, who, my wife tells me, is like to prove a pretty companion, of which I
am glad.  So to my office for a little business and then home, my mind having been all this
day in most extraordinary trouble and care for my father, there being so great an appearance
of my uncle's going away with the greatest part of the estate, but in the evening by Gosnell's
coming I do put off these thoughts to entertain myself with my wife and her, who sings exceeding
well, and I shall take great delight in her, and so merrily to bed.

6th.  Up and to the office, and there sat all the morning, Mr. Coventry and I alone, the rest
being paying off of ships.  Dined at home with my wife and Gosnell, my mind much pleased with
her, and after dinner sat with them a good while, till my wife seemed to take notice of my
being at home now more than at other times.  I went to the office, and there I sat till late,
doing of business, and at 9 o'clock walked to Mr. Rawlinson's, thinking to meet my uncle Wight
there, where he was, but a great deal of his wife's kindred-women and I knew not whom (which
Mr. Rawlinson did seem to me to take much notice of his being led by the nose by his wife),
I went away to my office again, and doing my business there, I went home, and after a song
by Gosnell we to bed.

7th (Lord's day).  A great snow, and so to church this morning with my wife, which is the first
time she hath been at church since her going to Brampton, and Gosnell attending her, which
was very gracefull.  So home, and we dined above in our dining room, the first time since it
was new done, and in the afternoon I thought to go to the French church; but finding the Dutch
congregation there, and then finding the French congregation's sermon begun in the Dutch, I
returned home, and up to our gallery, where I found my wife and Gosnell, and after a drowsy
sermon, we all three to my aunt Wight's, where great store of her usuall company, and here
we staid a pretty while talking, I differing from my aunt, as I commonly do, in our opinion
of the handsomeness of the Queen, which I oppose mightily, saying that if my nose be handsome,
then is her's, and such like.  After much discourse, seeing the room full, and being unwilling
to stay all three, I took leave, and so with my wife only to see Sir W. Pen, who is now got
out of his bed, and sits by the fireside. And after some talk, home and to supper, and after
prayers to bed.  This night came in my wife's brother and talked to my wife and Gosnell about
his wife, which they told me afterwards of, and I do smell that he I doubt is overreached in
thinking that he has got a rich wife,' and I fear she will prove otherwise.  So to bed.

8th.  Up, and carrying Gosnell by coach, set her down at Temple Barr, she going about business
of hers today.  By the way she was telling me how Balty did tell her that my wife did go every
day in the week to Court and plays, and that she should have liberty of going abroad as often
as she pleased, and many other lies, which I am vexed at, and I doubt the wench did come in
some expectation of, which troubles me.  So to the Duke and Mr. Coventry, and alone, the rest
being at a Pay and elsewhere, and alone with Mr. Coventry I did read over our letter to my
Lord Treasurer, which I think now is done as well as it can be.  Then to my Lord Sandwich's,
and there spent the rest of the morning in making up my Lord's accounts with Mr. Moore, and
then dined with Mr. Moore and Battersby his friend, very well and merry, and good discourse.
Then into the Park, to see them slide with their skeates, which is very pretty.  And so to
the Duke's, where the Committee for Tangier met: and here we sat down all with him at a table,
and had much good discourse about the business, and is to my great content.  That done, I hearing
what play it was that is to be acted before the King to-night, I would not stay, but home by
coach, where I find my wife troubled about Gosnell, who brings word that her uncle, justice
Jiggins, requires her to come three times a week to him, to follow some business that her mother
intrusts her withall, and that, unless she may have that leisure given her, he will not have
her take any place; for which we are both troubled, but there is no help for it, and believing
it to be a good providence of God to prevent my running behindhand in the world, I am somewhat
contented therewith, and shall make my wife so, who, poor wretch, I know will consider of things,
though in good earnest the privacy of her life must needs be irksome to her.  So I made Gosnell
and we sit up looking over the book of Dances till 12 at night, not observing how the time
went, and so to prayers and to bed.

9th.  Lay long with my wife, contenting her about the business of Gosnell's going, and I perceive
she will be contented as well as myself, and so to the office, and after sitting all the morning
in hopes to have Mr. Coventry dine with me, he was forced to go to White Hall, and so I dined
with my own company only, taking Mr. Hater home with me, but he, poor man, was not very well,
and so could not eat any thing.  After dinner staid within all the afternoon, being vexed in
my mind about the going away of Sarah this afternoon, who cried mightily, and so was I ready
to do, and Jane did also, and then anon went Gosnell away, which did trouble me too; though
upon many considerations, it is better that I am rid of the charge.  All together makes my
house appear to me very lonely, which troubles me much, and in a melancholy humour I went to
the office, and there about business sat till I was called to Sir G. Carteret at the Treasury
office about my Lord Treasurer's letter, wherein he puts me to a new trouble to write it over
again.  So home and late with Sir John Minnes at the office looking over Mr. Creed's accounts,
and then home and to supper, and my wife and I melancholy to bed.

10th.  This morning rose, receiving a messenger from Sir G. Carteret and a letter from Mr.
Coventry, one contrary to another, about our letter to my Lord Treasurer, at which I am troubled,
but I went to Sir George, and being desirous to please both, I think I have found out a way
to do it. So back to the office with Sir J. Minnes, in his coach, but so great a snow that
we could hardly pass the streets.  So we and Sir W. Batten to the office, and there did discourse
of Mr. Creed's accounts, and I fear it will be a good while before we shall go through them,
and many things we meet with, all of difficulty.  Then to the Dolphin, where Sir J. Minnes,
Sir W. Batten, and I, did treat the Auditors of the Exchequer, Auditors Wood and Beale, and
hither come Sir G. Carteret to us.  We had a good dinner, cost us L5 and 6s., whereof my share
26s., and after dinner did discourse of our salarys and other matters, which I think now they
will allow.  Thence home, and there I found our new cook-mayde Susan come, who is recommended
to us by my wife's brother, for which I like her never the better, but being a good well-looked
lass, I am willing to try, and Jane begins to take upon her as a chamber-mayde.  So to the
office, where late putting papers and my books and businesses in order, it being very cold,
and so home to supper.

11th.  Up, it being a great frost upon the snow, and we sat all the morning upon Mr. Creed's
accounts, wherein I did him some service and some disservice.  At noon he dined with me, and
we sat all the afternoon together, discoursing of ways to get money, which I am now giving
myself wholly up to, and in the evening he went away and I to my office, concluding all matters
concerning our great letter so long in doing to my Lord Treasurer, till almost one in the morning,
and then home with my mind much eased, and so to bed.

12th.  From a very hard frost, when I wake, I find a very great thaw, and my house overflown
with it, which vexed me.  At the office and home, doing business all the morning.  Then dined
with my wife and sat talking with her all the afternoon, and then to the office, and there
examining my copy of Mr. Holland's book till 10 at night, and so home to supper and bed.

13th.  Slept long to-day till Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten were set out towards Portsmouth
before I rose, and Sir G. Carteret came to the office to speak with me before I was up.  So
I started up and down to him.  At noon broke up and dined with my wife, and then to the office
again, and there made an end of last night's examination, and got my study there made very
clean and put in order, and then to write by the post, among other letters one to Sir W. Batten
about this day's work with Field, desiring his promise also.  The letter I have caused to be
entered in our public book of letters.  So home to supper and to bed.

14th (Lord's day).  Lay with great content talking with my wife in bed, and so up and to church
and then home, and had a neat dinner by ourselves, and after dinner walked to White Hall and
my Lord's, and up and down till chappell time, and then to the King's chappell, where I heard
the service, and so to my Lord's, and there Mr. Howe and Pagett, the counsellor, an old lover
of musique.  We sang some Psalms of Mr. Lawes, and played some symphonys between till night,
that I was sent for to Mr. Creed's lodging, and there was Captain Ferrers and his lady and
W. Howe and I; we supped very well and good sport in discourse.  After supper I was sent for
to my Lord, with whom I staid talking about his, and my owne, and the publique affairs, with
great content, he advising me as to my owne choosing of Sir R. Bernard for umpire in the businesses
between my uncle and us, that I would not trust to him upon his direction, for he did not think
him a man to be trusted at all; and so bid him good night, and to Mr. Creed's again; Mr. Moore,
with whom I intended to have lain, lying physically without sheets; and there, after some discourse,
to bed, and lay ill, though the bed good, my stomach being sicke all night with my too heavy
supper.

15th.  Up and to my Lord's and thence to the Duke, and followed him into the Park, where, though
the ice was broken and dangerous, yet he would go slide upon his scates, which I did not like,
but he slides very well.  Strange how the King is bewitched to this pretty Castlemaine.  Thence
by coach home, in my way calling upon Sir John Berkenheade, to speak about my assessment of
L42 to the Loyal Sufferers; which, I perceive, I cannot help; but he tells me I have been abused
by Sir R. Ford, which I shall hereafter make use of when it shall be fit.  But, Lord! what
a hypocrite-like face she made to tell it me. Thence to Sir W. Pen and sat long with him in
discourse, I making myself appear one of greater action and resolution as to publique business
than I have hitherto done, at which he listens, but I know is a rogue in his heart and likes
not, but I perceive I may hold up my head, and the more the better, I minding of my business
as I have done, in which God do and will bless me.  So home and with great content to bed,
and talk and chat with my wife while I was at supper, to our great pleasure.

16th.  Up and to the office, and thither came Mr. Coventry and Sir G. Carteret, and among other
business was Strutt's the purser, against Captn. Browne, Sir W. Batten's brother-in-law, but,
Lord!  though I believe the Captain has played the knave, though I seem to have a good opinion
of him and to mean him well, what a most troublesome fellow that Strutt is, such as I never
did meet with his fellow in my life.  His talking and ours to make him hold his peace set my
head off akeing all the afternoon with great pain. After dinner came Mrs. Browne, the Captain's
wife, to see me and my wife, and I showed her a good countenance, and indeed her husband has
been civil to us, but though I speak them fair, yet I doubt I shall not be able to do her husband
much favour in this business of Strutt's, whom without doubt he has abused.  Hence to Col.
Lovelace in Cannon Row about seeing how Sir R. Ford did report all the officers of the navy
to be rated for the Loyal Sufferers, but finding him at the Rhenish wine-house I could not
have any answer, but must take another time. Thence to my Lord's, and having sat talking with
Mr. Moore bewailing the vanity and disorders of the age, I went by coach to my brother's, where
I met Sarah, my late mayde, who had a desire to speak with me, and I with her to know what
it was, who told me out of good will to me, for she loves me dearly, that I would beware of
my wife's brother, for he is begging or borrowing of her and often, and told me of her Scallop
whisk, and her borrowing of 50s. for Will, which she believes was for him and her father. I
do observe so much goodness and seriousness in the mayde, that I am again and again sorry that
I have parted with her, though it was full against my will then, and if she had anything in
the world I would commend her for a wife for my brother Tom.  After much discourse and her
professions of love to me and all my relations, I bade her good night and did kiss her, and
indeed she seemed very well-favoured to me to-night, as she is always.  So by coach home and
to my office, did some business, and so home to supper and to bed.  And so I to the office
doing business, and then dined at home with my poor wife with great content, and so to the
office again and made an end of examining the other of Mr. Holland's books about the Navy,
with which I am much contented, and so to other businesses till night at my office, and so
home to supper, and after much dear company and talk with my wife, to bed.

18th.  Up and to the office, Mr. Coventry and I alone sat till two o'clock, and then he inviting
himself to my house to dinner, of which I was proud; but my dinner being a legg of mutton and
two capons, they were not done enough, which did vex me; but we made shift to please him, I
think; but I was, when he was gone, very angry with my wife and people. This afternoon came
my wife's brother and his wife, and Mrs. Lodum his landlady (my old friend Mr. Ashwell's sister),
Balty's wife is a most little and yet, I believe, pretty old girl, not handsome, nor has anything
in the world pleasing, but, they say, she plays mighty well on the Base Violl.  They dined
at her father's today, but for ought I hear he is a wise man, and will not give any thing to
his daughter till he sees what her husband do put himself to, so that I doubt he has made but
a bad matter of it, but I am resolved not to meddle with it.  They gone I to the office, and
to see Sir W. Pen, with my wife, and thence I to Mr. Cade the stationer, to direct him what
to do with my two copies of Mr. Holland's books which he is to bind, and after supplying myself
with several things of him, I returned to my office, and so home to supper and to bed.

20th.  Up and had L100 brought me by Prior of Brampton in full of his purchase money for Barton's
house and some land.  But it contents me above all things to see him trust me as his confidant:
so I bid him good night, he being to go into the country, to keep his Christmas, on Monday
next. So by coach home and to my office, being post night, and then home and to bed.

21st (Lord's day).  Lay long in bed, so up to Church, and so home to dinner alone with my wife
very pleasant.  After dinner I walked to my brother's, where he told me some hopes he had of
bringing his business to pass still of his mistress, but I do find they do stand upon terms
that will not be either fit or in his power to grant, and therefore I did dislike his talk
and advised him to give it quite over.  At last we broke up; and by and by comes in my Lord
Sandwich again, and he and I to talk together about his businesses, and so he to bed and I
and Mr. Creed and Captain Ferrers fell to a cold goose pye of Mrs. Sarah's, heartily, and so
spent our time till past twelve o'clock, and then with Creed to his lodgings, and so with him
to bed, and slept till

22nd.  Six or seven o'clock and so up, and by the fireside read a good part of "The Advice
to a Daughter," which a simple coxcomb has wrote against Osborne, but in all my life I never
did nor can expect to see so much nonsense in print Thence to my Lord's, who is getting himself
ready for his journey to Hinchingbroke.  And by and by, after eating something, and talking
with me about many things, and telling me his mind, upon my asking about Sarah (who, it seems,
only married of late, but is also said to be turned a great drunkard, which I am ashamed of),
that he likes her service well, and do not love a strange face, but will not endure the fault,
but hath bade me speak to her and advise her if she hath a mind to stay with him, which I will
do.  Where Mr. Coventry asking leave of the Duke, he bid us go to Woolwich.  Here, having staid
a good while, we got up again and brought night home with us and foul weather.  So over to
Whitehall to his chamber, whither my boy came, who had staid in St. James's Park by my mistake
all day, looking for me. Thence took my things that I put off to-day, and by coach, being very
wet and cold, on my feet home, and presently shifted myself, and so had the barber come; and
my wife and I to read "Ovid's Metamorphoses," which I brought her home from Paul's Churchyard
to-night, having called for it by the way, and so to bed,

23rd.  And slept hard till 8 o'clock this morning, and so up and to the office, where I found
Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten come unexpectedly home last night from Portsmouth, having done
the Pay there before we could have, thought it.  Sat all the morning, and at noon home to dinner
with my wife alone, and after dinner sat by the fire, and then up to make up my accounts with
her, and find that my ordinary housekeeping comes to L7 a month, which is a great deal.  He
being gone I fell to business, which was very great, but got it well over by nine at night,
and so home, and after supper to bed.

24th.  Lay pleasantly, talking to my wife, till 8 o'clock, then up and to Sir W. Batten's to
see him and Sir G. Carteret and Sir J. Minnes take coach towards the Pay at Chatham, which
they did and I home, and took money in my pocket to pay many reckonings to-day in the town,
as my bookseller's, and paid at another shop L4 10s. for "Stephens's Thesaurus Graecae Linguae,"
given to Paul's School: So to my brother's and shoemaker, and so to my Lord Crew's, and dined
alone with him, and after dinner much discourse about matters.  I understand, about this bastard.
Thence home and to my office alone to do business, and read over half of Mr. Bland's discourse
concerning Trade, which (he being no scholler and so knows not the rules of writing orderly)
is very good.  So home to supper and to bed, my wife not being well .  .  .  .  This evening
Mr. Gauden sent me, against Christmas, a great chine of beef and three dozen of tongues.  I
did give 5s. to the man that brought it, and half-a-crown to the porters.  This day also the
parish-clerk brought the general bill of mortality, which cost me half-a-crown more.

     [The Bills of Mortality for London were first compiled by order of
     Thomas Cromwell about 1538, and the keeping of them was commenced by
     the Company of Parish Clerks in the great plague year of 1593.  The
     bills were issued weekly from 1603.  The charter of the Parish
     Clerks' Company (1611) directs that "each parish clerk shall bring
     to the Clerks' Hall weekly a note of all christenings and burials."
     Charles I. in 1636 granted permission to the Parish Clerks to have a
     printing press and employ a printer in their hall for the purpose of
     printing their weekly bills.]

25th (Christmas Day).  These pictures were given by George III. to the Society
     of Antiquaries, who in return presented to the king a set of Thomas
     Hearne's works, on large paper.  The pictures were reclaimed by
     George IV., and are now at Hampton Court.  They were exhibited in
     the Tudor Exhibition, 1890.]

marking the great difference between their build then and now.  Upon which it was worth observing
how far they are come from taking the reprehensions of a bishopp seriously, that they all laugh
in the chappell when he reflected on their ill actions and courses.  He did much press us to
joy in these publique days of joy, and to hospitality.  After dinner sat talking a good while
with her, her [pain] being become less, and then to see Sir W. Pen a little, and so to my office,
practising arithmetique alone and making an end of last night's book with great content till
eleven at night, and so home to supper and to bed.

26th.  Up, my wife to the making of Christmas pies all day, being now pretty well again, and
I abroad to several places about some businesses, among others bought a bake-pan in Newgate
Market, and sent it home, it cost me 16s.  So to Dr. Williams, but he is out of town, then
to the Wardrobe.  Hither come Mr. Battersby; and we falling into a discourse of a new book
of drollery in verse called Hudebras,

     [The first edition of Butler's "Hudibras" is dated 1663, and it
     probably had only been published a few days when Pepys bought it and
     sold it at a loss.  He subsequently endeavoured to appreciate the
     work, but was not successful.  Here we dined with
many tradesmen that belong to the Wardrobe, but I was weary soon of their
company, and broke up dinner as soon as I could, and away, with the
greatest reluctancy and dispute (two or three times my reason stopping my
sense and I would go back again) within myself, to the Duke's house and
saw "The Villaine," which I ought not to do without my wife, but that my
time is now out that I did undertake it for.  But, Lord! to consider how
my natural desire is to pleasure, which God be praised that he has given
me the power by my late oaths to curb so well as I have done, and will do
again after two or three plays more.  Here I was better pleased with the
play than I was at first, understanding the design better than I did. Here
I saw Gosnell and her sister at a distance, and could have found it in my
heart to have accosted them, but thought not prudent.  But I watched their
going out and found that they came, she, her sister and another woman,
alone, without any man, and did go over the fields a foot. I find that I
have an inclination to have her come again, though it is most against my
interest either of profit or content of mind, other than for their
singing.  Home on foot, in my way calling at Mr. Rawlinson's and drinking
only a cup of ale there.  He tells me my uncle has ended his purchase,
which cost him L4,500, and how my uncle do express his trouble that he has
with his wife's relations, but I understand his great intentions are for
the Wights that hang upon him and by whose advice this estate is bought.
Thence home, and found my wife busy among her pies, but angry for some
saucy words that her mayde Jane has given her, which I will not allow of,
and therefore will give her warning to be gone.  As also we are both
displeased for some slight words that Sarah, now at Sir W. Pen's, hath
spoke of us, but it is no matter.  We shall endeavour to joyne the lion's
skin to the fox's tail.  So to my office alone a while, and then home to
my study and supper and bed.  Being also vexed at my boy for his staying
playing abroad when he is sent of errands, so that I have sent him
to-night to see whether their country carrier be in town or no, for I am
resolved to keep him no more.

27th.  Up, and while I am dressing I sent for my boy's brother, William, that lives in town
here as a groom, to whom and their sister Jane I told my resolution to keep the boy no longer.
So upon the whole they desire to have him stay a week longer, and then he shall go.  So to
the office, and there Mr. Coventry and I sat till noon, and then I stept to the Exchange, and
so home to dinner, and after dinner with my wife to the Duke's Theatre, and saw the second
part of "Rhodes,"  done with the new Roxalana; which do it rather better in all respects for
person, voice, and judgment, then the first Roxalana.  Home with great content with my wife,
not so well pleased with the company at the house to-day, which was full of citizens, there
hardly being a gentleman or woman in the house; a couple of pretty ladies by us that made sport
in it, being jostled and crowded by prentices.  So home, and I to my study making up my monthly
accounts, which is now fallen again to L630 or thereabouts, which not long since was L680,
at which I am sorry, but I trust in God I shall get it up again, and in the meantime will live
sparingly.  So home to supper and to bed.

28th (Lord's day).  Up and, with my wife to church, and coming out, went out both before my
Lady Batten, he not being there, which I believe will vex her.  After dinner my wife to church
again, and I to the French church, where I heard an old man make a tedious, long sermon, till
they were fain to light candles to baptize the children by.  So homewards, meeting my brother
Tom, but spoke but little with him, and calling also at my uncle Wight's, but met him and her
going forth, and so I went directly home, and there fell to the renewing my last year's oaths,
whereby it has pleased God so much to better myself and practise, and so down to supper, and
then prayers and bed.

29th.  Up and walked to Whitehall, where the Duke and Mr. Coventry being gone forth I went
to Westminster Hall, where I staid reading at Mrs. Mitchell's shop, and sent for half a pint
of sack for her. How this should come to pass, God knows, but a most strange thing it is! 
So with Mr. Creed to the Harp and Ball, and there meeting with Mr. How, Goodgroom, and young
Coleman, did drink and talk with them, and I have almost found out a young gentlewoman for
my turn, to wait on my wife, of good family and that can sing.  Thence I went away, and getting
a coach went home and sat late talking with my wife about our entertaining Dr. Clerke's lady
and Mrs. Pierce shortly, being in great pain that my wife hath never a winter gown, being almost
ashamed of it, that she should be seen in a taffeta one; when all the world wears moyre;--[By
moyre is meant mohair.-B.]--so to prayers and to bed, but we could not come to any resolution
what to do therein, other than to appear as she is.

30th.  Up and to the office, whither Sir W. Pen came, the first time that he has come downstairs
since his late great sickness of the gout.  We with Mr. Coventry sat till noon, then I to the
Change ward, to see what play was there, but I liked none of them, and so homeward, and calling
in at Mr, Rawlinson's, where he stopped me to dine with him and two East India officers of
ships and Howell our turner.  With the officers I had good discourse, particularly of the people
at the Cape of Good Hope, of whom they of their own knowledge do tell me these one or two things:
viz .  .  .  .  that they never sleep lying, but always sitting upon the ground, that their
speech is not so articulate as ours, but yet [they] understand one another well, that they
paint themselves all over with the grease the Dutch sell them (who have a fort there) and soot.
Thence to my Lord's lodgings, where Mrs. Sarah did make us my Lord's bed, and Mr. Creed I being
sent for, sat playing at cards till it was late, and so good night, and with great pleasure to bed.

31st.  Lay pretty long in bed, and then I up and to Westminster Hall, and
so to the Swan, sending for Mr. W. Bowyer, and there drank my morning
draft, and had some of his simple discourse.  Among other things he tells
me how the difference comes between his fair cozen Butler and Collonell
Dillon, upon his opening letters of her brother's from Ireland,
complaining of his knavery, and forging others to the contrary; and so
they are long ago quite broke off.  Thence to a barber's and so to my
wife, and at noon took her to Mrs. Pierces by invitacion to dinner, where
there came Dr. Clerke and his wife and sister and Mr. Knight, chief
chyrurgeon to the King and his wife.  We were pretty merry, the two men
being excellent company, but I confess I am wedded from the opinion either
of Mrs. Pierces beauty upon discovery of her naked neck to-day, being
undrest when we came in, or of Mrs. Clerke's genius, which I so much
admired, I finding her to be so conceited and fantastique in her dress
this day and carriage, though the truth is, witty enough.  After dinner
with much ado the doctor and I got away to follow our business for a
while, he to his patients and I to the Tangier Committee, where the Duke
of York was, and we staid at it a good while, and thence in order to the
despatch of the boats and provisions for Tangier away, Mr. Povy, in his
coach, carried Mr. Gauden and I into London to Mr. Bland's, the merchant,
where we staid discoursing upon the reason of the delay of the going away
of these things a great while.  Then to eat a dish of anchovies, and drink
wine and syder, and very merry, but above all things pleased to hear Mrs.
Bland talk like a merchant in her husband's business very well, and it
seems she do understand it and perform a great deal. Thence merry back,
Mr. Povy and, I to White Hall; he carrying me thither on purpose to carry
me into the ball this night before the King.  All the way he talking very
ingenuously, and I find him a fine gentleman, and one that loves to live
nobly and neatly, as I perceive by his discourse of his house, pictures,
and horses.  A country dance mentioned by Shakespeare and other
     dramatists under the form of brawl, which word continued to be used
     in the eighteenth century.

                    "My grave Lord Keeper led the brawls;
                    The seals and maces danced before him." My
purse is worth about L650, besides my goods of all sorts, which yet might
have been more but for my late layings out upon my house and public
assessment, and yet would not have been so much if I had not lived a very
orderly life all this year by virtue of the oaths that God put into my
heart to take against wine, plays, and other expenses, and to observe for
these last twelve months, and which I am now going to renew, I under God
owing my present content thereunto.  My family is myself and wife,
William, my clerk; Jane, my wife's upper mayde, but, I think, growing
proud and negligent upon it: we must part, which troubles me; Susan, our
cook-mayde, a pretty willing wench, but no good cook; and Wayneman, my
boy, who I am now turning away for his naughty tricks.  We have had from
the beginning our healths to this day very well, blessed be God!  Our late
mayde Sarah going from us (though put away by us) to live with Sir W. Pen
do trouble me, though I love the wench, so that we do make ourselves a
little strange to him and his family for it, and resolve to do so.  The
same we are for other reasons to my Lady Batten and hers. We have lately
had it in our thoughts, and I can hardly bring myself off of it, since
Mrs. Gosnell cannot be with us, to find out another to be in the quality
of a woman to my wife that can sing or dance, and yet finding it hard to
save anything at the year's end as I now live, I think I shall not be such
a fool till I am more warm in my purse, besides my oath of entering into
no such expenses till I am worth L1000.  The only weight that lies heavy upon my mind is
the ending the business with my uncle Thomas about my-dead uncle's estate,
which is very ill on our side, and I fear when all is done I must be
forced to maintain my father myself, or spare a good deal towards it out
of my own purse, which will be a very great pull back to me in my fortune.
But I must be contented and bring it to an issue one way or other.  The
Queen-Mother is said to keep too great a Court now; and her being married
to my Lord St. Albans is commonly talked of; and that they had a daughter
between them in France, how true, God knows.
Mr. Moore is very sickly, and I doubt will hardly get over his late fit of
sickness, that still hangs on him.

