And when the Priest reached the shore he saw the young Fisherman lying drowned in the surf,
and clasped in his arms was the body of the little Mermaid.  And he drew back frowning, and
having made the sign of the cross, he cried aloud and said, 'I will not bless the sea nor anything
that is in it.  Accursed be the Sea-folk, and accursed be all they who traffic with them. 
And as for him who for love's sake forsook God, and so lieth here with his leman slain by God's
judgment, take up his body and the body of his leman, and bury them in the corner of the Field
of the Fullers, and set no mark above them, nor sign of any kind, that none may know the place
of their resting.  For accursed were they in their lives, and accursed shall they be in their
deaths also.'

And the people did as he commanded them, and in the corner of the Field of the Fullers, where
no sweet herbs grew, they dug a deep pit, and laid the dead things within it.

And when the third year was over, and on a day that was a holy day, the Priest went up to the
chapel, that he might show to the people the wounds of the Lord, and speak to them about the
wrath of God.

And when he had robed himself with his robes, and entered in and bowed himself before the altar,
he saw that the altar was covered with strange flowers that never had been seen before.  Strange
were they to look at, and of curious beauty, and their beauty troubled him, and their odour
was sweet in his nostrils.  And he felt glad, and understood not why he was glad.

And after that he had opened the tabernacle, and incensed the monstrance that was in it, and
shown the fair wafer to the people, and hid it again behind the veil of veils, he began to
speak to the people, desiring to speak to them of the wrath of God.  But the beauty of the
white flowers troubled him, and their odour was sweet in his nostrils, and there came another
word into his lips, and he spake not of the wrath of God, but of the God whose name is Love.
And why he so spake, he knew not.

And when he had finished his word the people wept, and the Priest went back to the sacristy,
and his eyes were full of tears.  And the deacons came in and began to unrobe him, and took
from him the alb and the girdle, the maniple and the stole.  And he stood as one in a dream.

And after that they had unrobed him, he looked at them and said, 'What are the flowers that
stand on the altar, and whence do they come?'

And they answered him, 'What flowers they are we cannot tell, but they come from the corner
of the Fullers' Field.'  And the Priest trembled, and returned to his own house and prayed.
The Fauns also he blessed, and the little things that dance in the woodland, and the bright-eyed
things that peer through the leaves.  All the things in God's world he blessed, and the people
were filled with joy and wonder.  Yet never again in the corner of the Fullers' Field grew
flowers of any kind, but the field remained barren even as before.  Nor came the Sea-folk into
the bay as they had been wont to do, for they went to another part of the sea.

THE STAR-CHILD

[TO MISS MARGOT TENNANT--MRS. ASQUITH]

Once upon a time two poor Woodcutters were making their way home through a great pine-forest.
It was winter, and a night of bitter cold.  The snow lay thick upon the ground, and upon the
branches of the trees:  the frost kept snapping the little twigs on either side of them, as
they passed:  and when they came to the Mountain- Torrent she was hanging motionless in air,
for the Ice-King had kissed her.

So cold was it that even the animals and the birds did not know what to make of it.

'Ugh!' snarled the Wolf, as he limped through the brushwood with his tail between his legs,
'this is perfectly monstrous weather. Why doesn't the Government look to it?'

'Weet! weet! weet!' twittered the green Linnets, 'the old Earth is dead and they have laid
her out in her white shroud.'

'The Earth is going to be married, and this is her bridal dress,' whispered the Turtle-doves
to each other.  Their little pink feet were quite frost-bitten, but they felt that it was their
duty to take a romantic view of the situation.

'Nonsense!' growled the Wolf.  'I tell you that it is all the fault of the Government, and
if you don't believe me I shall eat you.' The Wolf had a thoroughly practical mind, and was
never at a loss for a good argument.

'Well, for my own part,' said the Woodpecker, who was a born philosopher, 'I don't care an
atomic theory for explanations.  If a thing is so, it is so, and at present it is terribly cold.'

Terribly cold it certainly was.  The little Squirrels, who lived inside the tall fir-tree,
kept rubbing each other's noses to keep themselves warm, and the Rabbits curled themselves
up in their holes, and did not venture even to look out of doors.  The only people who seemed
to enjoy it were the great horned Owls.  Their feathers were quite stiff with rime, but they
did not mind, and they rolled their large yellow eyes, and called out to each other across
the forest, 'Tu-whit!  Tu-whoo!  Tu-whit!  Tu-whoo! what delightful weather we are having!'

On and on went the two Woodcutters, blowing lustily upon their fingers, and stamping with their
huge iron-shod boots upon the caked snow.  Once they sank into a deep drift, and came out as
white as millers are, when the stones are grinding; and once they slipped on the hard smooth
ice where the marsh-water was frozen, and their faggots fell out of their bundles, and they
had to pick them up and bind them together again; and once they thought that they had lost
their way, and a great terror seized on them, for they knew that the Snow is cruel to those
who sleep in her arms. But they put their trust in the good Saint Martin, who watches over
all travellers, and retraced their steps, and went warily, and at last they reached the outskirts
of the forest, and saw, far down in the valley beneath them, the lights of the village in which
they dwelt.

So overjoyed were they at their deliverance that they laughed aloud, and the Earth seemed to
them like a flower of silver, and the Moon like a flower of gold.

Yet, after that they had laughed they became sad, for they remembered their poverty, and one
of them said to the other, 'Why did we make merry, seeing that life is for the rich, and not
for such as we are?  Better that we had died of cold in the forest, or that some wild beast
had fallen upon us and slain us.'

'Truly,' answered his companion, 'much is given to some, and little is given to others.  Injustice
has parcelled out the world, nor is there equal division of aught save of sorrow.'

But as they were bewailing their misery to each other this strange thing happened.  There fell
from heaven a very bright and beautiful star.  It slipped down the side of the sky, passing
by the other stars in its course, and, as they watched it wondering, it seemed to them to sink
behind a clump of willow-trees that stood hard by a little sheepfold no more than a stone's-throw
away.

'Why! there is a crook of gold for whoever finds it,' they cried, and they set to and ran,
so eager were they for the gold.

And one of them ran faster than his mate, and outstripped him, and forced his way through the
willows, and came out on the other side, and lo! there was indeed a thing of gold lying on
the white snow. So he hastened towards it, and stooping down placed his hands upon it, and
it was a cloak of golden tissue, curiously wrought with stars, and wrapped in many folds. 
And he cried out to his comrade that he had found the treasure that had fallen from the sky,
and when his comrade had come up, they sat them down in the snow, and loosened the folds of
the cloak that they might divide the pieces of gold.  But, alas! no gold was in it, nor silver,
nor, indeed, treasure of any kind, but only a little child who was asleep.

And one of them said to the other:  'This is a bitter ending to our hope, nor have we any good
fortune, for what doth a child profit to a man?  Let us leave it here, and go our way, seeing
that we are poor men, and have children of our own whose bread we may not give to another.'

But his companion answered him:  'Nay, but it were an evil thing to leave the child to perish
here in the snow, and though I am as poor as thou art, and have many mouths to feed, and but
little in the pot, yet will I bring it home with me, and my wife shall have care of it.'

So very tenderly he took up the child, and wrapped the cloak around it to shield it from the
harsh cold, and made his way down the hill to the village, his comrade marvelling much at his
foolishness and softness of heart.

And when they came to the village, his comrade said to him, 'Thou hast the child, therefore
give me the cloak, for it is meet that we should share.'

But he answered him:  'Nay, for the cloak is neither mine nor thine, but the child's only,'
and he bade him Godspeed, and went to his own house and knocked.

And when his wife opened the door and saw that her husband had returned safe to her, she put
her arms round his neck and kissed him, and took from his back the bundle of faggots, and brushed
the snow off his boots, and bade him come in.

But he said to her, 'I have found something in the forest, and I have brought it to thee to
have care of it,' and he stirred not from the threshold.

'What is it?' she cried.  'Show it to me, for the house is bare, and we have need of many things.'
And he drew the cloak back, and showed her the sleeping child.

'Alack, goodman!' she murmured, 'have we not children of our own, that thou must needs bring
a changeling to sit by the hearth?  And who knows if it will not bring us bad fortune?  And
how shall we tend it?'  And she was wroth against him.

'Nay, but it is a Star-Child,' he answered; and he told her the strange manner of the finding
of it.

But she would not be appeased, but mocked at him, and spoke angrily, and cried:  'Our children
lack bread, and shall we feed the child of another?  Who is there who careth for us?  And who
giveth us food?'

'Nay, but God careth for the sparrows even, and feedeth them,' he answered.

'Do not the sparrows die of hunger in the winter?' she asked.  'And is it not winter now?'

And the man answered nothing, but stirred not from the threshold.

And a bitter wind from the forest came in through the open door, and made her tremble, and
she shivered, and said to him:  'Wilt thou not close the door?  There cometh a bitter wind
into the house, and I am cold.'

'Into a house where a heart is hard cometh there not always a bitter wind?' he asked.  And
the woman answered him nothing, but crept closer to the fire.

And after a time she turned round and looked at him, and her eyes were full of tears.  And
he came in swiftly, and placed the child in her arms, and she kissed it, and laid it in a little
bed where the youngest of their own children was lying.  And on the morrow the Woodcutter took
the curious cloak of gold and placed it in a great chest, and a chain of amber that was round
the child's neck his wife took and set it in the chest also.

So the Star-Child was brought up with the children of the Woodcutter, and sat at the same board
with them, and was their playmate.  And every year he became more beautiful to look at, so
that all those who dwelt in the village were filled with wonder, for, while they were swarthy
and black-haired, he was white and delicate as sawn ivory, and his curls were like the rings
of the daffodil.  His lips, also, were like the petals of a red flower, and his eyes were like
violets by a river of pure water, and his body like the narcissus of a field where the mower
comes not.

Yet did his beauty work him evil.  For he grew proud, and cruel, and selfish.  The children
of the Woodcutter, and the other children of the village, he despised, saying that they were
of mean parentage, while he was noble, being sprang from a Star, and he made himself master
over them, and called them his servants.  No pity had he for the poor, or for those who were
blind or maimed or in any way afflicted, but would cast stones at them and drive them forth
on to the highway, and bid them beg their bread elsewhere, so that none save the outlaws came
twice to that village to ask for alms.  Indeed, he was as one enamoured of beauty, and would
mock at the weakly and ill-favoured, and make jest of them; and himself he loved, and in summer,
when the winds were still, he would lie by the well in the priest's orchard and look down at
the marvel of his own face, and laugh for the pleasure he had in his fairness.

Often did the Woodcutter and his wife chide him, and say:  'We did not deal with thee as thou
dealest with those who are left desolate, and have none to succour them.  Wherefore art thou
so cruel to all who need pity?'

Often did the old priest send for him, and seek to teach him the love of living things, saying
to him:  'The fly is thy brother.  Do it no harm.  The wild birds that roam through the forest
have their freedom.  Snare them not for thy pleasure.  God made the blind-worm and the mole,
and each has its place.  Who art thou to bring pain into God's world?  Even the cattle of the
field praise Him.'

But the Star-Child heeded not their words, but would frown and flout, and go back to his companions,
and lead them.  And his companions followed him, for he was fair, and fleet of foot, and could
dance, and pipe, and make music.  And wherever the Star-Child led them they followed, and whatever
the Star-Child bade them do, that did they.  And when he pierced with a sharp reed the dim
eyes of the mole, they laughed, and when he cast stones at the leper they laughed also.  And
in all things he ruled them, and they became hard of heart even as he was.

Now there passed one day through the village a poor beggar-woman. Her garments were torn and
ragged, and her feet were bleeding from the rough road on which she had travelled, and she
was in very evil plight.  And being weary she sat her down under a chestnut-tree to rest.

But when the Star-Child saw her, he said to his companions, 'See! There sitteth a foul beggar-woman
under that fair and green-leaved tree.  Come, let us drive her hence, for she is ugly and ill-
favoured.'

So he came near and threw stones at her, and mocked her, and she looked at him with terror
in her eyes, nor did she move her gaze from him.  And when the Woodcutter, who was cleaving
logs in a haggard hard by, saw what the Star-Child was doing, he ran up and rebuked him, and
said to him:  'Surely thou art hard of heart and knowest not mercy, for what evil has this
poor woman done to thee that thou shouldst treat her in this wise?'

And the Star-Child grew red with anger, and stamped his foot upon the ground, and said, 'Who
art thou to question me what I do?  I am no son of thine to do thy bidding.'

'Thou speakest truly,' answered the Woodcutter, 'yet did I show thee pity when I found thee
in the forest.'

And when the woman heard these words she gave a loud cry, and fell into a swoon.  And the Woodcutter
carried her to his own house, and his wife had care of her, and when she rose up from the swoon
into which she had fallen, they set meat and drink before her, and bade her have comfort.

But she would neither eat nor drink, but said to the Woodcutter, 'Didst thou not say that the
child was found in the forest?  And was it not ten years from this day?'

