TALES OF THREE HEMISPHERES

Lord Dunsany

CONTENTS

The Last Dream Of Bwona Khubla
How the Office of Postman Fell Vacant In Otford-under-the-Wold
The Prayer Of Boob Aheera
East And West
A Pretty Quarrel
How The Gods Avenged Meoul Ki Ning
The Gift Of The Gods
The Sack Of Emeralds
The Old Brown Coat
An Archive Of The Older Mysteries
A City Of Wonder
  Beyond the Fields We Know
  Publisher's Note
  First Tale: Idle Days on the Yann
  Second Tale: A Shop In Go-By Street
  Third Tale: The Avenger Of Perdóndaris

[Note that the tale "Idle Days on the Yann" also appears in the collection "A Dreamer's Tales".]

THE LAST DREAM OF BWONA KHUBLA

From steaming lowlands down by the equator, where monstrous orchids blow, where beetles big
as mice sit on the tent-ropes, and fireflies glide about by night like little moving stars,
the travelers went three days through forests of cactus till they came to the open plains where
the oryx are.

And glad they were when they came to the water-hole, where only one white man had gone before,
which the natives know as the camp of Bwona Khubla, and found the water there.

It lies three days from the nearest other water, and when Bwona Khubla had gone there three
years ago, what with malaria with which he was shaking all over, and what with disgust at finding
the water-hole dry, he had decided to die there, and in that part of the world such decisions
are always fatal.  In any case he was overdue to die, but hitherto his amazing resolution,
and that terrible strength of character that so astounded his porters, had kept him alive and
moved his safari on.

He had had a name no doubt, some common name such as hangs as likely as not over scores of
shops in London; but that had gone long ago, and nothing identified his memory now to distinguish
it from the memories of all the other dead but "Bwona Khubla," the name the Kikuyus gave him.

There is not doubt that he was a fearful man, a man that was dreaded still for his personal
force when his arm was no longer able to lift the kiboko, when all his men knew he was dying,
and to this day though he is dead.

Though his temper was embittered by malaria and the equatorial sun, nothing impaired his will,
which remained a compulsive force to the very last, impressing itself upon all, and after the
last, from what the Kikuyus say.  The country must have had powerful laws that drove Bwona
Khubla out, whatever country it was.

On the morning of the day that they were to come to the camp of Bwona Khubla all the porters
came to the travelers' tents asking for dow. Dow is the white man's medicine, that cures all
evils; the nastier it tastes, the better it is.  They wanted down this morning to keep away
devils, for they were near the place where Bwona Khubla died.

The travelers gave them quinine.

By sunset the came to Campini Bwona Khubla and found water there. Here is a packet of paper that
you' re to keep in your pocket till it' s taken away from you. And now I' ll help you to saddle the horse,
and once you' re across London Bridge you' ll likely come upon Maidstone
and Rye some time in your life, for you can' t get back over the river
again except by the same bridge, so you' ll know it when you come to
it."

And so I mounted Paddy in the courtyard; the sleepy watchman undid the bolts
in the big gate in the archway; and my man rode out into the darkness
in no very cheerful humour over his journey.

I came
back and took forty winks more in the arm- chair, then, with much difficulty,
I roused Jem Bottles. He also, without a murmur, but with much pride
in his dressing, put on the second of my discarded suits, and seemed
to fancy himself mightily in his new gear.

With plenty of cord I tied and retied the two bundles of swords and placed them across the horse
in front of his saddle, and it was not yet daylight when Jem jingled
out into the street like a moving armoury. Two huge pistols were
in his holsters, my pack on the horse and took loaded and ready to
his hand."

By the Saints," said Jem proudly," the man that meddles with me shall get hot lead or cold steel for
his breakfast," and with that he went off at a canter, waking the
echoes with the clash of his horse' s shoes on the cobble- stones.
when a drawer knocked at the door and said that a priest that was
downstairs would be glad to see me.

I had him up in a jiffy, and a hot breakfast following fast on his heels, which we both laid in in quantities,
for neither of us knew where our next meal was to be. However, the good
father paid little thought to the future as long as the present meal was
well served and satisfactory. He had no more idea than a spring lamb
how we were to get to Rye, but thought perhaps a coach set out at
that hour in the morning. When I told him I had not taking as jubilant
a view of the world as was Jem at that moment." I knew nothing of
the papers," protested Bottles." If you had told me about the papers, I would
have had them, and if I had been carrying the papers these fellows
would not have made away with them.""

Then," said the horrified priest," you a horse saddled and waiting
for him, he was pleased, for Father Donovan could scamper across the country
in Ireland with the best of them.

So far as I could judge, the coast was clear, for every one we met between the" Pig and Turnip" and
the bridge seemed honest folk intent on getting early to their work. It
was ten minutes past seven when we clattered across the bridge and
set our faces toward Rye.

CHAPTER XXXI Looking back over my long life I scarcely remember any
day more pleasant, and although.

Two saddled horses were tied to a tree, and by the side of the road appeared
to be a heap of nine or ten saddles, on one of which a man was sitting,
comfortably eating a bit of bread, while on another a second man, whose head
was tied up in a white cloth, lay back in a recumbent position, held
upright by the saddlery. Coming closer, I was disturbed to see that the
man eating was Jem Bottles, while the other was undoubtedly poor
Paddy, although I had heard them over and over again there was always
something fresh in his way of telling them, and now and then I recognized
a narrative that had once made two separate stories, but which had
now become welded into one in the old man' s mind.

There was never anything gloomy in these anecdotes, for they always
showed the cheerful side of life and gave courage to the man that
wanted to do right; for in all of Father Donovan' s stories the virtuous
were always made happy.

We talked of our friends and acquaintances, and if he ever knew anything
bad about a man he never told it; while if I mentioned it he could always
say something good of him to balance it, or at least to mitigate the
opinion that might be formed of it. He was always doing some man
a good turn or speaking a comforting word for him."

O' Ruddy," he said," I spent most of the day yesterday writing letters
to those that could read them in our part of Ireland, setting right
the rumours that had come back to us, which said you were fighting
duels and engaged in brawls, but the strangest story of all was the
one about your forming a friendship with a highwayman, who, they said,
committed robberies on the road and divided the spoil with you, and
here I find you without a servant at all at all, leading a quiet,
respectable life at a quiet, respectable inn.

It' s not even in a tavern that I first come across you, but kneeling devoutly, saying a prayer in your
mother church.

I see you leaving your inn having paid your bill like a gentleman, when they said you took night- leave
of most of the hostelries in England. Dear me, and there was the landlord bowing to you as if you
were a prince, and all his servants in a row with the utmost respect
for you.

Ah, O' Ruddy, it' s men like you that gives the good name to Ireland,
and causes her to be looked up to by all the people of the world."

I gave Father Donovan heartfelt thanks for his kindness, and prayed
to myself that we would not come upon Jem Bottles on the road, and
that we would be left unmolested on our journey until we saw the
sea- coast.

Of course, if we were set upon, it would not be my fault, and it' s not likely he would blame me; but
if we came on Bottles, he was inclined to be very easy in conversation, and, in spite of my warnings,
would let slip words that would shock the old priest. But when a day begins too auspiciously, its luck is
apt to change before the sun sets, as it was with me.

It was nearing mid- day, and we were beginning to feel a trifle hungry, yet were in a part of the country
that gave little promise of an inn, for it was a lonely place with heath on each side of the road, and,
further on, a bit of forest. About half- way through this wooded plain an astonishing sight
met my eyes his clothes were so badly torn that I had difficulty in recognizing them as my own.
As we drew up Jem stood and saluted with his mouth full, while Paddy groaned deeply. I was off my horse
at once and ran to Paddy." Where are ye hurted?" said I." I' m killed," said Paddy." I' ve done
the best I could for him," put in Jem Bottles." He' ll be all right in
a day or two."" I' ll not," said Paddy, with more strength than one would suspect;"
I' ll not be all right in a day or two, nor in a week or two, nor in a month
or two, nor in a year or two; I' m killed entirely.""

You' re not," said Bottles." When I was on the highway I never minded
a little clip like that."" Hush, Bottles," said I," you talk altogether
too much.

Paddy," cried I," get on your feet, and show yer manners here to
Father Donovan."

Paddy got on his feet with a celerity which his former attitude would
not have allowed one to believe possible."

My poor boy!" said the kindly priest;" who has misused you?" and
he put his two hands on the sore head."

About two miles from here," said Paddy," I was set on by a score of
men--"" There was only nine of them," interrupted Jem," count the saddles.""
They came on me so sudden and unexpected that I was off my horse
before I knew there was a man within reach.

They had me down before I could say my prayers, and cudgelled me sorely,
tearing my clothes, and they took away the packet of papers you After
a while I come to myself, for I seemed dazed; and, my horse peacefully
grazing beside me, I managed to get on its back, and turned toward
London in the hope of meeting you; but instead of meeting you, sir,
I came upon Jem with his pile of saddles, and he bound up my head
and did what he could to save me, although I' ve than that I spent
riding side by side with Father Donovan from London to Rye.

The fine old man had a fund of entertaining stories a great thirst
on me at this moment that' s difficult to deal with.""

There' s a ditch by the side of the road," said the priest." Yes,"
said Paddy sadly;"

I tried some of that." I went to out a bottle and a leather cup. Paddy
drank and smacked his lips with an ecstasy that gave us hope for
his ultimate recovery.

Jem Bottles laughed, and to close his mouth I gave him also some
of the wine."

I hope," said Father Donovan with indignation," that the miscreant
who misused you will be caught and punished.""

I punished
them," said Jem, drawing the back of his hand across his mouth."

We' ll hear about it another time," I went up stairs again and threw
myself down on the bed and slept peacefully with no Paddy to rouse
me until half- past- six said I, having my suspicions."

Let the good man go on," begged Father Donovan, who is that not without
human curiosity. Jem needed no second bidding." Your Reverence," he said," I
was jogging quietly on as a decent man should, when, coming to the
edge of this forest, I saw approach me a party of horsemen, who were
very hilarious and laughed loudly.

If you look up and down the road and see how lonely it is, and then
look at the wood, with no hedge between it and the highway, you tore
the black lining from my hat, punched two holes in it for the eyes,
and tied it around my forehead, letting it hang down over my face;
then I primed my two pistols and waited for the gentlemen.

When they were nearly opposite, a touch of the heels to my horse' s flank was enough, and out he sprang
into the middle of the road."' Stand and deliver!' I cried, pointing
the pistols at them, the words coming as' ll notice the place was designed
by Providence for such a meeting."" Sure the public road is designed
as a place for travellers to meet," said the father, somewhat bewildered
by the harangue." Your Reverence is right, but this place could not
afford better accommodation if I had made it myself.

I struck into the wood before they saw me, glibly to my lips as if
I had said them no later ago than yesterday.' Stand and deliver, ye--'"
and here Jem glibly rattled out a stream of profane appellatives which
was disgraceful to listen to."

Tut, tut, Jem," I said," you shouldn' t speak like that.

Any way we' ll hear the rest another time."" That' s what I called
them, sir," said Jem, turning to me with surprise," you surely would
not have me tell an untruth.""

I wouldn' t have you tell anything. Keep quiet. Father Donovan is not
interested in your recital.""

I beg your pardon, O' Ruddy," said Father Donovan, looking at me
reproachfully;" but I am very much interested in this man' s narrative.""

As any good man should be," continued Jem," for these were arrant scoundrels;
one of them I knew, and his name is Doctor Chord.

He fell off his horse on the roadway at once and pleaded for mercy.
I ordered the others instantly to hold their hands above their heads,
and they did so, except one man who began fumbling in his holster,
and then, to show him what I could do with a pistol, I broke his wrist.

At the sound of the shot the horses began to plunge, nearly trampling
Doctor Chord into the dust."' Clasp your hands above your heads, ye--'"

Here went on another stream of terrible language again, and in despair
I sat down on the pile of saddles, allowing things to take their course.

Jem continued:" The lesson of the pistol was not misread by my gentlemen,
when they noticed I had a second loaded one; so, going to them one
after the other I took their weapons from them and flung them to the
foot of that tree, where, if you look, you may see them now.

Then I took a contribution from each one, just as you do in church,
your Reverence. I' m sure you" have a collection for the poor, and
that was the one I was taking up this day.

I have not counted them yet," said the villain turning to me," but
I think I have between sixty and seventy guineas, which are all freely
at your gave me, sir. Sure I tried to guard it with my life, an'
they nearly took both.""

I am certain you did your best, Paddy," said I;" and it' s sorry I am
to see you injured.""

Then they rode away, leaving me, sore wounded, sitting on the side of the road,"
continued Paddy." disposal, excepting a trifle for myself and Paddy
there.

There' s no plaster like gold for a sore head, your Reverence. I
made each one of them dismount and take off his saddle and throw it in
the pile; then I had them mount again and drove them with curses toward
London, and very glad they were to escape.""

He did not get the papers again," wailed Paddy, who was did not commit
this action in punishment for the injury done to your friend?

You knew nothing of that at the time. You set on these men thinking they were simple travellers.""
O, I knew nothing of what happened to Paddy till later, but you see, your Reverence, these men themselves
were thieves and robbers. In their case it was nine men against one
poor half- witted Irish lad--""

Half- witted yourself," cried Paddy angrily." But you, sir," continued his
Reverence," were simply carrying out the action of a highwayman.

Sir, you are a highwayman night."" I was, your Reverence, but I have reformed.""
And this pile of saddles attests your reformation!" said the old
man, shaking his head."

But you see, your Reverence, this is the way to look at it--""

Keep quiet, Jem!" cried I in disgust."

How can I keep quiet," urged Bottles," when I am unjustly accused? I do not deny
that I was once a highwayman, but Mr. O' Ruddy converted me to better
ways--""

Highways," said Paddy, adding, with a sniff," Half- witted!"" Your Reverence,
I had no more intention of robbing those men than you have at this
moment.

I didn' t know they were thieves themselves.

Then what put it into my head to jump into the wood and on with a mask
before you could say, Bristol town? It' s the mysterious ways of Providence,
your Reverence.

Even I didn' t understand it at the time, but the moment I heard Paddy'
s tale I knew at once I was but an instrument in the hand of Providence,
for I had not said,' Stand and deliver!' this many a day, nor thought
of it.""

It may be so; it may be so," murmured the priest, more to himself
than to us; but I saw that he was much troubled, so, getting up, I
said to Paddy:" Are you able to ride farther on to- day?""

If I' d another sup from the cup, sir, I think I could," whereat Jem Bottles
laughed again, and I gave them both a drink of wine." What are you
going to do with all this saddlery?" said I to Bottles.



Ali had scarcely gone a hundred yards through cactus and creeper underneath the palms when
he came to the golden shrine that nothing guards except the deeps of the forest, and found
the Diamond Idol. The Diamond Idol is five inches high and its base a good inch square, and
it has a greater lustre than those diamonds that Mr. Moses bought last year for his wife, when
he offered her an earldom or the diamonds, and Jael his wife had answered, "Buy the diamonds
and be just plain Mr. Fortescue."

Purer than those was its luster and carved as they carve not in Europe, and the men thereby
are poor and held to be fearless--yet they do not sell that idol.  And I may say here that
if any one of my readers should ever come by ship to the winding harbour where the forts of
the Portuguese crumble in infinite greenery, where the baobab stands like a corpse here and
there in the palms, if he goes ashore where no one has any business to go, and where no one
so far as I know has gone from a liner before (though it's little more than a mile or so from
the pier), and if he finds a golden shrine, which is near enough to the shore, and a five-inch
diamond in it carved in the shape of a god, it is better to leave it alone and get back safe
to the ship than to sell that diamond idol for any price in the world.

Ali Kareeb Ahash went into the golden shrine, and when he raised his head from the seven obeisances
that are the due of the idol, behold! it glowed with such a lustre as only it wears after answering
recent prayer.  No native of those parts mistakes the tone of the idol, they know its varying
shades as a tracker knows blood; the moon was streaming in through the open door and Ali saw
it clearly.

No one had been that night but Boob Aheera.

The fury of Ali rose and surged to his heart, he clutched his knife till the hilt of it bruised
his hand, yet he did not utter the prayer that he had made ready about Boob Aheera's liver,
for he saw that Boob Aheera's prayers were acceptable to the idol and knew that divine protection
was over his enemy. 

The correction of this habit will go far toward reforming an individual'
s diet in every way.

Thorough mastication means masticating up to the point of involuntary swallowing. It does not mean forcibly
holding the food in the mouth, counting the chews, or otherwise making a bore of eating. It merely
means giving down the habit of forcing food down, and applies to all foods, even to liquid foods,
which should be sipped.[ Sidenote: Evils of Insufficient Mastication]
The consequences and evils of insufficient mastication are many, and
may be enumerated as follows: Insufficient use of the teeth and jaws(
and hence dental decay as well as other and worse dental evils); insufficient
saliva mixed with the food( and hence imperfect digestion of the starchy
substances); insufficient subdivision of food by mastication( and
hence slow digestion); the failure of the taste nerves to telegraph
ahead, as it were, to the stomach and other digestive organs an intimation
of the kind and amount of digestive juices required( and hence indigestion);
the overseasoning of food to make it relishable even when bolted(
and hence overeating and irritation of the mucous lining); the excessive
use of meat and eggs and like foods, which can be eaten rapidly with
relative impunity, and the corresponding neglect of other, like bread,
grains, vegetables, and salads, which require more mastication( and
hence intestinal poisoning).[ Sidenote: Prolonged Relish of Food]
The habit of insufficient mastication is subtle, because it has become"
second nature" with most of us.

To free ourselves of it we must first of all allow plenty of time
for our meals and rid our minds of the thought of hurry.

A boy' s school
in which the principal is endeavoring to fight the habit of food- bolting
has wisely ordained that no boy may leave the dining- room until a certain
hour, even if he has finished eating long before. In this way the boy
soon learns that there is nothing to be gained by fast eating, and, in fact,
that the pleasantest way of spending the meal- time to prolong the relish of
the food. It would be well if all of us would adopt a similar rule
for ourselves. Mr. Gladstone did something of the sort and was noted
for the slow mastication of his food. Latterly Mr. Horace Fletcher set such a
rule for himself, and revived the interest of the public in the subject.[
Sidenote: The First Three Mouthfuls] At first one must give some conscious
attention to his efforts to reform; but if one will merely attend carefully
to the first three mouthfuls of a meal, the slow pace can often be
established for the rest of the meal without further thought.[ Sidenote:
Careful Tasting] Slow eating is important not merely as a matter
of mastication, but also as a matter of taste and enjoyment.

Food must have a pleasing taste and flavor and then must be enjoyed
in order to be most readily assimilated.[ Sidenote: Increased Enjoyment]
There is a mistaken notion that the hygiene of food means" giving
up all the things that taste good."

While it is true that, in many cases,
sacrifices have to be made, the net result of reforming one' s diet
is not to diminish but to increase the enjoyment of food.

In general, it is extremely unhygienic to eat foods which are not
relished.

Experiments by Pavlov and others have shown that the taste and enjoyment
of food stimulate the flow of digestive juices.[ Sidenote: Choosing
Foods] Finally, slow eating is a great aid in the proper choice of foods.
Some suggestions have already been given as to the wise choice of
foods, but no rules can be formulated which will completely insure
such a choice.

Even the wisest physiologist can not depend altogether on his knowledge of food values, while, to the
layman, the problem is so complicated that his main reliance must be on his own instincts. Animals
depend exclusively on instinct except when under domestication. Civilized man should not and
can not altogether depend upon instinct, but his food instincts are far more keen and correct if he
obeys the rule of eating slowly than if he bolts his food.[ Sidenote:"
Good" and"

Bad"

Foods] In the choice of foods it is as difficult to distinguish absolutely
between what are" good" and" bad" foods as it is to classify human beings
into" good" and" bad." All we can say is that some foods are better
than others, remembering that it is usually more important to be
satisfied, even if the foods are not" ideal," than to be unsatisfied
with what in the abstract seem" ideal" foods.

Among the best foods for most people are fruits, potatoes, nuts(
if well masticated), milk, sour milk, and vegetables.

Among the worst foods are putrefactive cheeses, sweetbreads, liver, kidneys," high" game or poultry. But a fastidious
study of foods will find some faults as well as some virtues in almost
any food.

The best way
to help the ordinary man choose his foods is to advise him to use
as much as possible of the" better" and as little as possible of the"
worse" without attempting to draw a hard and fast line between the"
good" and" bad."[ Sidenote: Salt, Pepper, Spices] Salt, pepper, and
hot condiments should be used very sparingly, if at all.[ Sidenote:
Sugar and Candy] A great cause of ill health is overuse of sugar in
concentrated form, candy, etc., especially by the sedentary.

One reason why sugar has a high food value is that it is readily utilized for
combustion, if taken between meals greatly increases the calories and may
lead to overnourishment.[ Sidenote: Water with Meals] There is, for normal
people, no objection to drinking a moderate amount of water at meals--
say one or two glassfuls-- provided it is not taken when food is
in the mouth and used for washing it down.[ Sidenote: The Digestibility
of So- called"

Indigestible" Foods] The science of dietetics will develop rapidly in the future, and in a few
years it will probably be possible to be more definite than we have
been here.

At present there is much unknown, especially as to how far our rules
have to be modified for the particular individual.

Personal idiosyncrasies have to be taken into account. Sometimes"

What is one man' s meat is another man' s poison." On the other hand, many have mistaken ideas as to their
own idiosyncrasies. For instance, many people think that nuts never agree with them, when the trouble really
is that do not masticate them properly. Many think peanuts indigestible, not realizing either the importance
of mastication makes it inconvenient to follow this raw starch, or
partially cooked cereal such as Scotch brose( oatmeal cooked only
ten minutes) will feed the germs.[ Sidenote: Evidences of Injury]
The odor and character of the stools are indicative of the extent
to which our diet is injuring us.

The odor is less offensive if the diet is low in protein and thoroughly
instinct as promptly as, for instance, a horse does.

The impulse to go to stool, if neglected even five minutes, may disappear.
There are few health measures more simple and effective or the importance
of avoiding over- roasting. The ordinary peanuts are over- roasted.

Peanuts very slightly roasted and very thoroughly masticated seldom
disagree with one.

Others believe that bananas never agree with them, when the fact is
they eat them too green. The banana vender usually finds that the
ignorant public buys his fruit best when its color is an even yellow,
and he puts aside for himself the only bananas ripe and fit to eat,
namely those which are mottled with black.[ Sidenote: Avoidance of
Fads] Each individual must use his own intelligence and common sense,
avoiding so far as he can the mistake of following a" fad" and accepting
a theory without sufficient evidence; and the opposite mistake of
accepting as hygienic the customs about him simply because they are
customs, and thus mistaking for fads any conclusions of science which
are discordant with current custom.[ Sidenote: Necessity of Medical
Examination] It is a good idea to consult a physician in regard to
one' s diet, and endeavor intelligently to follow his advice and not
insist on one' s own diet, selected from the standpoint of mere self-
indulgence or custom.

Moreover, since many, without being aware of the fact, are affected with Bright' s disease, diabetes, etc.,
in their early stages, in which dietetic precautions are especially necessary, it is well, even for
those who are apparently in good health, to be medically examined
as a preliminary to a rearrangement of their diet along the best lines.

CHAPTER  III POISONS Section  I-- Constipation If the human body be
likened to a steam- engine, its wastes correspond to the ashes.[
Sidenote: Retention of Body Wastes] The injury which comes from the
retention of the body' s waste products is of the greatest importance.

The intestinal contents become dangerous by being too long retained, as putrefying fecal matter
contains poisons which are harmful to the body.

Abnormal conditions of the intestines are largely responsible for the common
headache malady, and for a generally lowered resistance, resulting in
colds and even more serious ailments. Constipation is extremely prevalent,
partly because our diet usually lacks bulk or other needed constituents,
but partly also because we fail to eliminate regularly, thoroughly,
and often.

Constipation, long continued, is by no means a trifling matter.

It represents a constant and cumulative tax which often ends in very
serious consequences.[ Sidenote: Water- Drinking] Free water- drinking
when the stomach is empty, especially before breakfast, is beneficial
in constipation.

Free water- drinking at meals may prove constipating.

Excess of water should be avoided by the very feeble or those suffering
from heart trouble or dropsy.[ Sidenote: Laxative Foods] The best
regulators of the bowels are foods.

Foods should possess sufficient bulk to promote the action of the intestines and should contain
a due of laxative elements. Foods which are especially laxative thrust
out, the head thrust forward, chin up, and the arms hanging in front
are prunes, figs, most fruits except bananas, fruit juices, all fresh
vegetables, especially greens of all sorts, wheat, bran, and the whole
grain cereals.

Oils and fats are also laxative but can not be used in sufficiently
large quantities to produce very laxative effects without producing
loss of appetite.

Foods which have the opposite tendency are rice, boiled milk, fine wheat-
flour in bread, corn- starch, white of egg.[ Sidenote: Bran and Agar- Agar]
The use of wheat- bran in cereals, in bread, and even in vegetables
is a preventive of constipation, as is also the use of agar- agar,
a Japanese seaweed product.

This is not digested and absorbed, but acts as a water- carrier and
a sweep to the intestinal tract.

It should be taken without admixture with laxative drugs.[ Sidenote:
Mineral Oils] Paraffin oil is especially good as an intestinal lubricant
to assist the food to slip through the intestinal tube at the proper
rate of progress, provided the oil is first freed, by long- continued
shaking with water, from certain dangerous impurities.

Many refined preparations are on the market for use in constipation.
Underweight people should not use these oils unless properly prescribed
by a physician.[ Sidenote: Avoiding Drugs] It is advisable, in general, to
avoid cathartics except under medical supervision, since certain drugs
are often very harmful when their use is long continued and the longer
they are used the more dependent on them the user becomes.

Laxative drugs, even mineral waters, should never be used habitually.[
Sidenote: Enemas] The occasional, but not habitual, use of an enema(
with warm water followed always by a second enema of cool water The
normal man and woman should find no difficulty in having complete
movements regularly two or three times a day by merely living a reasonable
life, being careful especially to avoid overfatigue, to include sufficient
bulk in the food, to take regular exercise, including, particular,
breathing exercises, and to maintain an erect carriage.[ Sidenote:
Low Seated Water Closets] High- seated water closets, so often found
in institutions, hotels and private houses, often favor constipation,
as they do not permit of the proper physiological attitude in defecation.

They prevent the individual from exercising abdominal pressure so essential for this function. Such
seats should be made much lower than they are, or the feet should rest
on a foot stool, in order to attain the proper attitude for thorough emptying
of the intestine.[ Sidenote: Number of Defecations] Observations on
the manlike apes show that they defecate three or four times a day.
Few of the human family have such ideal movements.

Millions are conscious of shortcoming in this regard, and doubtless
millions more suffer from some shortcomings of which they are not
conscious.

Many believe they have free movements when actually
they are suffering from a sluggishness in the rectum and other parts
of the lower intestine. A rectal examination often reveals unsuspected
fecal residues.[ Sidenote: Establishing Proper Habits] The natural instinct
to defecate, like many other natural instincts, is usually deadened by
failure to exercise it.

Civilized life than restoring the normal sensitiveness of this important
impulse.

It may require a few weeks of special care, during which cold water enemas
at night, following evacuation by paraffin oil injection, may be needed.
It would be an excellent rule to visit the closet immediately after
the noon and evening meals, as faithfully as most people do after
the morning meal, until the reflex is trained to act at those, the
most natural, times for its action.

Before leaving the subject of intestinal poisoning, we may here again mention the importance
of avoiding the poisoning which comes from too much protein. This poisoning is probably due largely
to the decomposition of protein in the colon.[ Sidenote: Use of Sour Milk] One proposed method for reducing
this decomposition of protein is through the use of sour milk.

Lactic acid, the acid of sour milk, constitutes a medium in which
putrefactive germs do not thrive.

Hence, if sufficient sour- milk germs can be kept in the intestines
to constantly manufacture lactic acid, putrefaction will be reduced.

But, as Professor Rettger and others have shown, the mere swallowing
of a little sour milk or of sour- milk tablets is seldom sufficient.

The" good germs" swallowed die of starvation before they do much good.
To keep them alive and enable them to multiply, we must feed them.

The free use of milk and of milk sugar, a little masticated.

Section  II-- Posture One of the simplest and most effective methods of
avoiding self- poisoning is by maintaining an erect posture.

In an erect posture the abdominal muscles tend to remain taut and to
afford proper support or pressure to the abdomen, including the
great splanchnic circulation of large blood- vessels.

In an habitual slouching posture, the blood of the abdomen tends to stagnate in the liver and
the splanchnic circulation, causing a feeling of despondency and mental
confusion, headache, coldness of the hands and feet, and chronic
fatigue or neurasthenia, and often constipation.

A slouching attitude is often the result of disease or lack of vitality; but it is also a cause.[ Sidenote: The"
Consumptive Stoop"] There is some reason to believe that" the consumptive
stoop" leads to tuberculosis partly in through the lowering of resistance
resulting from the poisoning produced by a chronically relaxed abdomen.

Many persons who have suffered for years from the above- named symptoms
have been relieved of them after a few weeks of correct posture, sometimes
reenforced by the artificial pressure of an abdominal supporter and
by special exercises to strengthen the abdominal muscles, to prevent
relaxation) is a temporary expedient.[ Sidenote: Massage of the Colon]
Massage of the abdomen, deep and thorough, with a creeping movement
of the ends of the fingers on the left side of the abdomen from above
downward, also promotes the process of defecation..

Lying face downward with a pillow under the abdomen presses the blood
out of the congested splanchnic circulation.[ Sidenote: Breathing
and Posture] Breathing exercises are also very useful for correcting
the chronic evils of bad posture.

Exercises taken when lying on the back, by raising the legs or head,
strengthen the abdominal muscles.

Slow, deep breathing, through the nose, while lying on the back, with a weight
on the abdomen, such as a bag of sand-- 2 to 4 lbs.-- is beneficial.[
Sidenote: Standing and Walking] In walking, the most common error
is to slump, with the shoulders rounded, the stomach of the body.



And once more the man appeared to the ancient gods and sought from them one more boon, and
said to them: "Ancient gods; indeed but the world and we are a-weary of war and long for the
ancient ways and the paths of peace."

So the gods took back their war and gave him peace.

But the man took counsel one day and communed long with himself and said to himself: "Behold,
the wishes I wish, which the gods grant, are not to be much desired; and if the gods should
one day grant a wish and never revoke it, which is a way of the gods, I should be sorely tried
because of my wish; my wishes are dangerous wishes and not to be desired."

And therefore he wrote an anonymous letter to the gods, writing: "O ancient gods; this man
that hath four times troubled you with his wishes, wishing for peace and war, is a man that
hath no reverence for the gods, speaking ill of them on days when they do not hear, and speaking
well of them on holy days and at the appointed hours when the gods are hearkening to prayer.
Therefore grant no more wishes to this impious man."

And the days of peace wore on and there arose again from the earth, like mist in the autumn
from the fields that generations have ploughed, the savour of sameness again.  And the man
went forth one morning and appeared once more to the gods, and cried: "O ancient gods; give
us but one war again, for I would be back to the camps and debateable borders of lands."

And the gods said: "We hear not well of your way of life, yea ill things have come to our hearing,
so that we grant no more the wishes you wish."

THE SACK OF EMERALDS

One bad October night in the high wolds beyond Wiltshire, with a north wind chaunting of winter,
with the old leaves letting go their hold one by one from branches and dropping down to decay,
with a mournful sound of owls, and in fearsome loneliness, there trudged in broken boots and
in wet and windy rags an old man, stooping low under a sack of emeralds.  It were easy to see
had you been travelling late on that inauspicious night, that the burden of the sack was far
too great for the poor old man that bore it.  And had you flashed a lantern in his face there
was a look there of hopelessness and fatigue that would have told you it was no wish of his
that kept him tottering on under that bloated sack.

When the menacing look of the night and its cheerless sounds, and the cold, and the weight
of the sack, had all but brought him to the door of death, and he had dropped his sack onto
the road and was dragging it on behind him, just as he felt that his final hour was come, and
come (which was worse) as he held the accursed sack, just then he saw the bulk and the black
shape of the Sign of the Lost Shepherd loom up by the ragged way.  He opened the door and staggered
into the light and sank on a bench with his huge sack beside him.

All this you had seen had you been on that lonely road, so late on those bitter wolds, with
their outlines vast and mournful in the dark, and their little clumps of trees sad with October.
But neither you nor I were out that night.  I did not see the poor old man and his sack until
he sank down all of a heap in the lighted inn.

And Yon the blacksmith was there; and the carpenter, Willie Losh; and Jackers, the postman's
son.  And they gave him a glass of beer. And the old man drank it up, still hugging his emeralds.

And at last they asked him what he had in his sack, the question he clearly dreaded; and he
only clasped yet tighter the sodden sack and mumbled he had potatoes. 

Catharine lost no time in addressing Suwarrow:" Your commander, Marshal
Boutourlin, ought to put you under arrest, to punish military insubordination.

As sovereign, I reserve to myself the pleasure of rewarding a faithful
subject, who by a splendid action has well accompanied this gracious
letter.

Never was commander more loved by his soldiers than Suwarrow. Like
Napoleon, he shared their hardships and privations as well as their
dangers.

He would often pass the cold winter nights in their bivouac and partake
of their humble fare.

In every difficulty he kept up their spirits by his alacrity and cheerfulness.
However tinctured with superstition, he had deep devotional himself.
The noble self denial which made him scorn any care for himself which
was served his country."

The Order of St. Alexander beyond the reach of the common soldiers, so
thoroughly identified him with them, that all their tender sympathies
were with him, as much as their respect and veneration.

He was never seen feelings; and it is stated that he never went to battle without offering up a
prayer, and that it was his look first and last occupation every day. Often side; and in every advance of
his cavalry when provisions were failing he would order a fast to be
observed by the troops, as a token of humiliation for their sins:
and he always set the example of the prescribed abstinence on the
long and heavy marches of his infantry but on foot by their he was
at their head on horseback.



And with awful fear on his face the wayfarer closed his sack, whimpering over his emeralds
and furtively glancing round as though the loss of his secret were and utterly deadly thing.
And then they asked him to give them just one each, just one huge emerald each, because they
had given him a glass of beer.  Then to see the wayfarer shrink against his sack and guard
it with clutching fingers one would have said that he was a selfish man, were it not for the
terror that was freezing his face.  I have seen men look sheer at Death with far less fear.

And they took their emerald all three, one enormous emerald each, while the old man hopelessly
struggled till he saw his three emeralds go, and fell to the floor and wept, a pitiable, sodden
heap.

And about that time I began to hear far off down the windy road, by which that sack had come,
faintly at first and slowly louder and louder, the click clack clop of a lame horse coming
nearer.  Click clack clop and a loose shoe rattling, the sound of a horse too weary to be out
upon such a night, too lame to be out at all.

Click clack clop.  And all of a sudden the old wayfarer heard it; heard it above the sound
of his won sobbing, and at once went white to the lips.  Such sudden fear as blanched him in
a moment struck right to the hearts of all there.  They muttered to him that it was only their
play, they hastily whispered excuses, they asked him what was wrong, but seemed scarcely to
hope for an answer, nor did he speak, but sat with a frozen stare, all at once dry-eyed, a
monument to terror.

Nearer and nearer came the click clack clop. 

Few other examples are left.

The first recorded use of explosive shells was by the Venetians in 1376. Collado, that Spanish mathematician
of the sixteenth century, used the culverin ladle as the-, and 13- inch mortars.
Müller scoffed at the idea of" choaking" a fuze, which, he said, burnt as
well in water as in any other element. Its pewter case, which screwed
into the shell, contained a time ring master pattern( fig. 45). Shells
filled with explosive or incendiary mixtures were standard for mortars,
after 1550, but they did not come into general use for flat- trajectory
weapons until early in the nineteenth century, whereafter the term"
shell" gradually won out over" bomb."

Grape could disable men at almost 900 yards and was much used during the 1700'
s. Eventually, it was almost replaced by case shot, which was more
effective at shorter ranges( 400 to 700 yards).

A delayed action shell, diabolically timed to roll amongst the ranks
with its fuze burning, was calculated to" disorder the stoutest men," since
they could not know at what awful instant the bomb would burst.

Paper fuzes were 2 inches long, and could be cut shorter if necessary.
It had a single hole where the powder was funneled in-- full, but
not enough to pack too tightly when the fuze was driven in.

As a precaution against faulty or double loading, marks on the rammer handle
showed the loaders when the different parts of the charge were properly seated.
In later years, however, such projections were replaced by two"
ears," little recesses beside the fuze hole. Sabots were sometimes made
of paper, too, or of compressed wood chips, to eliminate the danger
of a heavy, unbroken sabot falling amongst friendly troops.

The United States ordnance manual of 1861 lists carcasses for 12-, 18-,
24-, 32-, and 42- pounder guns as well as 8-, 10 of powder composition(
A).

In later years, the shells were scored on the interior to ensure their breaking
into many fragments. Perhaps its simplest application was in the stone mortar(
fig. 43). The hole was only a quarter of an inch in diameter, but the
head of the fuze was hollowed out like a cup, and" mealed" The conical
paper- case fuze( fig. 42d), inserted in a metal or wooden plug that
fitted the fuze hole, contained composition whose rate of burning was shown
by the color of the paper. These were the beginnings of the modern
chemical shells. To time the fuze, a cannoneer cut the cylinder at the proper
length with his fuze- saw, or drilled a small hole( G) where the
fire could flash out at the right time.

Some of them, like the Marsilly handspike( fig. 11), had rollers
at the toe so that the wheelless rear of the carriage could be lifted
however, other types came into wide use.( fine) with the handspike
and rolled with comparative ease.

The
ends of the match were crossed into a sort of rosette at the head of
the fuze. SCATTER PROJECTILES When one of our progenitors wrathfully
seized a handful of pebbles and flung them at the flock of birds
in his garden, he discovered the principle of the scatter projectile.

Bombs were not filled with powder very long before use, and fuzes were not put into the projectiles
until the time of firing. For this weapon, round stones about the size of
a man' s fist( and, by 1750, hand grenades) were dumped into a two-
handled basket and let down into the bore.

If the fuze had to be withdrawn, there was a fuze extractor for the
job. The shock of impact caused this fuze to explode the shell at almost
the instant of striking.

Artillery manuals of very early date include chapters on the manufacture and
use of fireworks. The main trouble with this fuze, however, was that it did
not always ignite! During the 1800' s, powder, moistened with" spirits
of wine" The hay was first twisted into a 1- inch rope, then a length
of the rope was folded together several times and finally rolled up
into a short cylinder, a little larger than the bore.

Red burned 3 seconds, green 4, and yellow 5 seconds per inch. A bombshell
was simply a hollow, cast- iron sphere.

Since
firing a shell from a 24- pounder to burst at 2,000 yards meant a time
flight of 6 seconds, a red fuze would serve without cutting, or a green
fuze could be cut to 1- 1/ 2 inches. Often the sponge was on the opposite
end of the rammer, and sometimes, instead of being lambskin- covered,
the sponge was a bristle brush.

Worm screws were sometimes mounted in the head of the sponge, so that
the piece could be sponged and wormed at the same time.

Furthermore, he preferred to use shells" everywhere equally thick,
because they would then burst into a greater number of pieces."

A brass wire at the base of the plunger was a safety device to keep the cap away from a sharp point at
the top of the fuze until the shell struck the target. To set the
fuze, the gunner merely had to cut the case at the proper mark--
at four for 4 seconds, three for 3 seconds, and so on-- to expose
the ring of powder to the powder blast of the gun.

Rockets seem to have had a demoralizing effect upon untrained troops,
and perhaps their use by the English against raw American levies at
Bladenburg, in 1814, contributed to the rout of the United States
forces and the capture of Washington.

Essentially, the ladle is merely a scoop, a metal cylinder secured to
a wooden disk on a long staff. A United States 12- inch mortar fuze(
fig. 42c), 7 inches long and burning 49 seconds, was much like the
earlier fuze.

The percussion fuze was an extremely important development of the nineteenth century, particularly
for the long- range rifles. This tool gripped the fuze head tightly, and turning a screw slowly
pulled out the fuze. Percussion fuzes were made in two general types: the front fuze, for the nose of an elongated
projectile; and the base fuze, at the center of the projectile base. A stand
of grape in the 1700' s consisted of a wooden disk at the base of a short
wooden rod that served as the core around which the balls stood(
fig. 41).

Both types were built on the same principles. These crude incendiaries
survived through the 1700' s as, for instance, the flaming cargoes
of fire ships that were sent amidst the enemy fleet.

But the same theory was simple: since a cannon at 45° elevation would fire
ten times farther than it would when the barrel was level( at zero° elevation),
the quadrant should be marked into ten equal parts; the range of the gun
therefore increase by one- tenth each time the gun was elevated to the
next mark on the quadrant. Over this ring the top of the fuze case
was marked in seconds. The big guns would shoot once or twice a
day, and the little ones from six to a dozen rounds. Upon impact, the
plunger was thrown forward, the cap struck the point and ignited
the priming charge, which in turn fired the bursting charge of the
shell.

Paper caps to protect the powder composition covered the heads of these fuzes and had to be removed before
the shell was put into the gun.

FUZES The eighteenth century fuze was a wooden tube several inches long, with
a powder composition tamped into its hole much like the nineteenth
century fuze( fig. 42c).

To force the fuze into the hole of the shell, the cannoneer covered
the fuze head with tow, put a fuze- setter on it, and hammered the setter
with a mallet," drifting" the fuze until the head stuck out of the shell
only 2/ 10 of an inch.

It was secured to the ball with a pair of metal straps to make" semi- fixed" ammunition; then, if the neck
of the powder bag were tied around the sabot, the result was one
cartridge, containing powder, sabot, and ball, called" fixed" ammunition.

There were 6,000 stones in the ammunition inventory for Castillo de San Marcos
in 1707. During the late 1500' s, the heating of iron cannon balls to
serve as incendiaries was suggested, but not for another 200 years was the
idea successfully carried out. They were used again 2 years later at
Waterloo.

Somewhat similar, but with larger iron balls and no metal case, was grape shot, so- called
from the grape- like appearance of the clustered balls. The base fuze was used with armor- piercing
projectiles where it was desirable to have the shell penetrate the target for some distance
for before bursting. The whole assembly was bagged in cloth and reinforced with a net of heavy cord.
As powder charges were lessened in later years, the ladle was shortened;
by 1750, it was only three shot diameters long.

In any event, this projectile was one of the most effective ever
used in the smoothbore against earthworks, buildings, and for general
bombardment.

Incidentally, there were 2,000 sacks of grape at the Castillo in 1740,
more than any other type projectile. There had been previous attempts
to produce a projectile of this kind, such as the German Zimmerman'
s" hail shot" of 1573-- case shot with a bursting charge and a primitive
time fuze-- but Shrapnel' s invention was the first air- bursting
case shot which, in technical words," imparted directional velocity"
to the bullets it contained.

It was the forerunner of the shrapnel used so much in World War I and was invented by
Lt. Henry Shrapnel want, of the British Army, in 1784. Spherical case shot(
fig. 41) was an attempt to carry the effectiveness of grape and canister
beyond its previous range by means of a bursting shell. Shrapnel' s new shell
was first used against the French in 1808, but was not called by its
inventor' s name until 1852.

Inserted in the gun bore and twisted, it seized and drew out wads
or the remains of cartridge bags stuck in the gun after firing.

A Hotchkiss front percussion fuze( fig. 42e) had a brass case which screwed into the shell. But in
the year 1672 there appeared an iron shell called a carcass( fig. 41), filled with pitch and other
materials that burned at intense heat for about 8 minutes. Essentially, sponging made sure there were
no sparks in the bore when the new charge was put in. The carcass was standard ammunition until smoothbores
went out of use. During most of the eighteenth century, shells were cast thicker at the base than
at the fuze hole on the theory that they were( 1) better able to resist the shock of firing from the
cannon and( 2) more likely to fall with the heavy part underneath, leaving the fuze uppermost and
less liable to extinguishment. One of the earliest kinds of scatter projectiles was case shot, or canister,
used at Constantinople in 1453. But the intrepid defenders neutralized these"
chemical bursts" with lime and arsenic. It was fired from cannon at such
inflammable targets as wooden ships or powder magazines.( fig. 41)
took the place of the wad.

The modern equivalent of the" bum" is an HE shell. Similarly, a form of
gas projectile, called a" stink shell," was invented by a Confederate officer
during the Civil War.

After the powder charge was in the gun with a dry wad in front of
it, another wad of wet straw, or clay, was put into the barrel.

ROCKETS Today' s rocket projectiles are not exactly new inventions. The ladle
full of powder was pushed home in the bore. Hot shot was superseded, about
1850, by Martin' s shell, filled with molten iron. The instrument
looked like a carpenter' s square, with a quarter- circle connecting
the two arms. Loading hot shot was particularly dangerous.

Because of its" inhumanity," and probably because it was not thought valuable enough to offset its propaganda
value to the enemy, it was not popular.( alcohol), was pressed into
the hollow to make a larger igniting surface.

In connection with chemical warfare, it is of interest to review
the Hussite siege of Castle Karlstein, near Prague, in the first quarter
of the fifteenth century.

Gunners early began to consolidate ammunition for easier and quicker loading. When the gun was
fired, the shock of discharge dropped a lead plug( B) from the base of the
fuze into the projectile cavity, permitting the plunger to drop to the bottom
of the fuze and rest there, held by the spread wire, while the shell was in flight.
Handspikes were big pinch bars to manhandle cannon. Many projectiles
for the catapults, however, were rotting carcasses and other filth,
hurled over the castle walls to cause disease and break the morale of the
besieged. Hot shot was nothing but round shot off the fine powder in the
center of the case; the powder flash then blew out a tin plate in the
bottom of the fuze and ignited the shell charge. Toward that end, the sabot
or" shoe"

It was generally made of copper, the same gauge as the windage of the gun; that is, the copper was just
thick enough to fit between ball and bore. The U. S. Army in Mexico( 1847) included, heated to a red glow over
a grate or in a furnace. After firing 10,930 cannonballs, 932 stone fragments, 13 fire barrels,
and 1,822 tons of filth, the Hussites gave up. But among the most important tools for everyday firing
were the following: The sponge was a wooden cylinder about a foot long,
the same diameter as the shot, and covered with lambskin. Wads could
be made of almost any suitable material at hand, but perhaps straw or
hay ones were most common. A black fuze burned an inch every 2 seconds.
After the handier sabots came into use, however, wads were needed
only to keep the ball from rolling out when the muzzle was down, or
for hot shot firing.

The Hussites emplaced 46 small cannon, 5 large cannon, and 5 catapults.

For instance, after the powder charge was placed in a bag, the next logical
step was to attach the wad and the cannonball to it, so that loading could
be made in one simple operation-- pushing the single round into the bore( fig.
48). They also helped to inspire Francis Scott Key. During the siege
of Gibraltar in 1782, the English fired and destroyed a part of Spain'
s fleet with hot shot; and in United States seacoast forts shot furnaces
were standard equipment during the first half of the 1800' s. The
little shot furnace at Castillo de San Marcos National Monument was
built during the 1840' s; a giant furnace of 1862 still remains at
Fort Jefferson National Monument.

The sabot was a wooden disk about the same diameter as the shot. This primitive
charge was used at close range against personnel in a fortification,
where the effect of the descending projectiles would be uncommonly
like a short but severe barrage of over- sized hailstones.

They were of different types( figs.

In transportation, cartridges were protected by cylinders and caps of strong paper. A pair of tongs(
something like ice tongs) seized the shell by the ears and lifted it up to the gun bore. A big mortar
sabot was a lethal projectile in itself! When the cherry- red shot was rammed home, the wet wad prevented
a premature explosion of the charge.

The warheads of such rockets were cast iron, filled with black powder and fitted
with percussion fuzes. Wooden tube fuzes were used almost as long as
the spherical shell. But in making war rockets there was no marked
progress until the late eighteenth century.

TOOLS Gunner' s equipment was numerous.

The name
comes from its case, or can, usually metal, which was filled with scrap,
musket balls, or slugs( fig. 41). About the time of artillery' s beginning,
the military fireworker came into the business of providing pyrotechnic
engines of war; later, his job included the spectacular fireworks that
were set off in celebration of victory or peace. They were fired from
trough- like launching stands, which were adjustable for elevation. The
ring burned until it reached the zero end and set a rocket battery,
and, indeed, war rockets were an important part of artillery resources
until the rapid progress of gunnery in the latter 1800' s made them
obsolescent.

About 1780, the British Army in India watched the Orientals use them;
and within the next quarter century William Congreve, who set about
the task of producing a rocket that would carry an incendiary or explosive
charge as far as 2 miles, had achieved such promising results that
English boats fired rocket salvos against Boulogne in 1806, The British
Field Rocket Brigade used rockets effectively at Leipsic in 1812--
the first time they appeared in European land warfare.

There were the tompion( a lid that fitted over the muzzle of the gun
to keep wind and weather out of the bore) and the lead cover for
the vent; water buckets for the sponges and passing boxes for the
powder; scrapers and tools for" searching" the bore to find dangerous
cracks or holes; chocks for the wheels; blocks and rollers, lifting
jacks, and gins for moving guns; and drills and augers for clearing
the vent( figs.

It was used to clear the vent of the gun and to pierce the powder bag so
that flame from the primer could ignite the charge. FIXED AMMUNITION
In early days, due partly to the roughly made balls, wads were very important
as a means of confining the powder and increasing its efficiency. Like
all bore tools, it was mounted on a long staff; after being dampened with
water, it was used for cleaning the bore of the piece after firing. The flame
escaped through vents, three to five in number, around the fuze hole
of the shell.

Sea- coast fuzes of similar type were used in the 15- inch Rodmans until
these big smoothbores were finally discarded sometime after 1900. The wormer
was a double screw, something like a pair of intertwined corkscrews,
fixed to a long handle. INCENDIARIES AND CHEMICAL PROJECTILES Incendiary
missiles, such as buckets or barrels filled with a fiercely burning
composition, had been used from earliest times, long before cannon.

The Bormann fuze( fig. 42a), the quickest of the oldtimers to set,
was used for many years by the U. S. Field Artillery in spherical shell
and shrapnel. The ladle was the most important of all the gunner' s tools in the
early years, since it was not only the measure for the powder but the only
way to dump the powder in the bore at the proper place. Whether or not he understands
the technical characteristics of the rocket, every schoolboy remembers
the" rocket' s red glare" of the National Anthem, wherein Key recorded
his eyewitness account the bombardment of Fort McHenry.

Its short burning time( about 6 seconds) made the Bormann fuze obsolete
as field gun ranges increased.

But before the introduction of the powder cartridge, cutting a ladle
to the correct size was one of the most important accomplishments
a gunner had to learn.

Their bombs were hemispheres of stone or bronze, joined together with
hoops and exploded by means of a primitive powder fuze. It pushed
home the powder charge, the wad, and the shot.

Ladles for lesser guns could be proportioned( that is, shortened)
from the master pattern.

According to the Ordnance Manual, the shot could cool in the gun
without setting off the charge!

Turning the handle dumped the charge, which then had to be packed with the
rammer. In later years grape was made by bagging two or three tiers of balls,
each tier separated by an iron disk. The gunner laid the long arm the quadrant in
the bore of the gun, and the line of the bob against the graduated
quarter- circle showed the gun' s angle of elevation.

The rammer was a wooden cylinder about the same diameter and length as the
shot.

It was 4- 1/ 2 calibers long and would carry exactly the weight of the ball in powder. Until the
1800' s, the larger bombs were not always smooth spheres, but had either a projecting neck, or collar, for
the fuze hole or a pair of rings at each side of the hole for easier
handling( fig. 41). The gunner' s pick or priming wire was a sharp pointed
tool resembling a common ice pick blade. 17, 44). Marble pillars from
Prague churches furnished the cannonballs. They were used to move the carriage
and to lift the breech of the gun so that the elevating quoin or
screw might be adjusted.

Fixed ammunition was usual for the lighter field pieces by the end of the 1700' s, while the bigger
guns used" semi- fixed." 33a, 44), but were essentially 6- foot- long wooden poles, shod with iron. Some
English fuzes at this period were also made by drawing two strands
of a quick match into the hole, instead of filling it with powder
composition.

The gunner' s quadrant( fig. 46), invented by Tartaglia about 1545, was
an aiming device so basic that its principle is still in use today.
The smoke shell appeared in 1681, but was never extensively used.
From the angle of the square dangled a plumb bob.

With cartridges, the ladle was no longer needed for loading the gun, but it
was still handy for withdrawing the round. The addition of the quadrant
to the art of artillery opened a whole new field for the mathematicians,
who set about compiling long, complicated, and jealously guarded tables
for the gunner' s guidance. Inside the case was a plunger( A) containing
a priming charge of powder, topped with a cap of fulminate.
  He said, "You go out by the back door and turn to the right";
and he opened a little, old, dark door in the wall through which I went, and he wheezed and
shut the door. The back of the shop was of incredible age.  I saw in antique characters upon
a mouldering board, "Licensed to sell weasels and jade earrings."  The sun was setting now
and shone on little golden spires that gleamed along the roof which had long ago been thatched
and with a wonderful straw.  I saw that the whole of Go-by Street had the same strange appearance
when looked at from behind.  The pavement was the same as the pavement of which I was weary
and of which so many thousand miles lay the other side of those houses, but the street was
of most pure untrampled grass with such marvellous flowers in it that they lured downward from
great heights the flocks of butterflies as they traveled by, going I know not whence.  The
other side of the street there was pavement again but no houses of any kind, and what there
was in place of them I did not stop to see, for I turned to my right and walked along the back
of Go-by Street till I came to the open fields and the gardens of the cottages that I sought.
Huge flowers went up out of these gardens like slow rockets and burst into purple blooms and
stood there huge and radiant on six-foot stalks and softly sang strange songs.  Others came
up beside them and bloomed and began singing too. A very old witch came out of her cottage
by the back door and into the garden in which I stood.

"What are these wonderful flowers?" I said to her.

"Hush!  Hush!" she said, "I am putting the poets to bed.  These flowers are their dreams."

And in a lower voice I said: "What wonderful songs are they singing?" and she said, "Be still
and listen."

And I listened and found they were singing of my own childhood and of things that happened
there so far away that I had quite forgotten them till I heard the wonderful song.

"Why is the song so faint?" I said to her.

"Dead voices," she said, "Dead voices," and turned back again to her cottage saying: "Dead
voices" still, but softly for fear that she should wake the poets.  "They sleep so badly while
they live," she said.

I stole on tiptoe upstairs to the little room from whose windows, looking one way, we see the
fields we know and, looking another, those hilly lands that I sought--almost I feared not to
find them.  I looked at once toward the mountains of faëry; the afterglow of the sunset flamed
on them, their avalanches flashed on their violet slopes coming down tremendous from emerald
peaks of ice; and there was the old gap in the blue-grey hills above the precipice of amethyst
whence one sees the Lands of Dream.

All was still in the room where the poets slept when I came quietly down.  The old witch sat
by a table with a lamp, knitting a splendid cloak of gold and green for a king that had been
dead a thousand years.

"Is it any use," I said, "to the king that is dead that you sit and knit him a cloak of gold
and green?"

"Who knows?" she said.

"What a silly question to ask," said her old black cat who lay curled by the fluttering fire.

Already the stars were shining on that romantic land when I closed the witch's door; already
the glow-worms were mounting guard for the night around those magical cottages.  I turned and
trudged for the gap in the blue-grey mountains.

Already when I arrived some colour began to show in the amethyst precipice below the gap although
it was not yet morning.  I heard a rattling and sometimes caught a flash from those golden
dragons far away below me that are the triumph of the goldsmiths of Sirdoo and were given life
by the ritual incantations of the conjurer Amargrarn. On the edge of the opposite cliff, too
near I thought for safety, I saw the ivory palace of Singanee that mighty elephant-hunter;
small lights appeared in windows, the slaves were awake, and beginning with heavy eyelids the
work of the day.

And now a ray of sunlight topped the world.  Others than I must describe how it swept from
the amethyst cliff the shadow of the black one that opposed it, how that one shaft of sunlight
pierced the amethyst for leagues, and how the rejoicing colour leaped up to welcome the light
and shot back a purple glow on the walls of the palace of ivory while down in that incredible
ravine the golden dragons still played in the darkness.

At this moment a female slave came out by a door of the palace and tossed a basket-full of
sapphires over the edge. She clenched her hands together, and her voice seemed to catch in
her throat.

I apologize to you both.""

Yes," he cried," you have killed my love. A low moan broke from her, and
she flung herself at his feet and lay there like a trampled flower."

I wish she were ill," he rejoined. He thanked him, wondered why he refused to accept any money for them,
and began to eat them listlessly. She has entirely altered. He turned
round and, walking to the window, drew up the blind.

This evening
she is merely a commonplace mediocre actress." For every sin that
he committed, a stain would fleck and wreck its fairness."

You are acting." He would go back to Sibyl Vane, make her amends, marry her, try to love her again."
But do let us go.

A fit of passionate sobbing choked her. He started back as if in surprise. Besides, I don' t suppose
you will want your wife to act, so what does it matter if she plays Juliet like a wooden doll? She
crouched on the floor like a wounded thing, and Dorian Gray, with his beautiful eyes, was his recollection
of the whole thing! What more can you want?" But what if, by some fate or deadlier chance, eyes other
than his spied behind and saw the horrible change? No line like that warped his red lips. Basil, you
must go. The man stood waiting for his orders. It was the girl' s
fault, not his of.

His lips trembled, and rushing to the back of the box, he leaned up against the wall, hiding his
face in his hands. Such things were impossible.

He repeated her name over and over again.

Dorian Gray went back to his seat. Lord Henry had told him that, and Lord
Henry knew what women were.

The play dragged on, and seemed interminable. But you understand
now, don' t you?" He thrust her back. Don' t go away from me.

The curtain went down on a titter and some groans. The screen was an old one, of gilt Spanish leather,
stamped and wrought with a rather florid Louis- Quatorze pattern.

The girl was standing there alone, with a look of triumph on her face."
Dorian, Dorian," she cried," before I knew you, acting was the one
reality of my life.

There was a radiance about her. But you are quite right, Dorian." I am so sorry I didn' t act
well. The sky was pure opal now, and the roofs of the houses glistened like silver against it." Horribly!"
he answered, gazing at her in amazement." I am going," he said at
last in his calm clear voice.

Iris-
necked and pink- footed, the pigeons ran about picking up seeds. My brother... No; never mind. You
have no a hansom and drove home.

I was Rosalind one night and Portia the other. They contained the usual
collection of cards, invitations to dinner, tickets for private views,
programmes of charity concerts, and the like that are showered on
fashionable young men every morning during the season.

No; it was merely an illusion wrought on the troubled senses. After
he had taken the button- idea what I suffered."

Or had it been simply his own imagination that had made him see a
look of evil where there had been a look of joy?"

Dorian," she answered, lingering over his name with long- drawn music
in her voice, as though it were sweeter than honey to the red petals
of her mouth."

I am not cold," he murmured. Half of the audience went out, tramping
in heavy boots and laughing."

Understand
what?" he asked, angrily.

Dorian looked at him for a moment." Too cold for Monsieur?" asked his valet, putting an omelette
on the table. Why I shall never act well again." What was the use of knowing? I knew nothing but
shadows, and I thought them real.

Huge carts filled with nodding lilies rumbled slowly down the polished
empty street.

You make yourself ridiculous. A third- rate actress with a pretty
face." I was bored."

I heard them hissing, and I smiled." I don' t wish to be unkind, but I can' t see you again. Her
eyes were lit with an exquisite fire.

It was only in the theatre that I lived. They had been plucked at
midnight, and the coldness of the moon had entered into them.

The others he opened listlessly. The joy of Beatrice was my joy, and the sorrows
of Cordelia were mine also. Anything would be better than this dreadful state of doubt.
The common people who acted with me seemed to me to be godlike. He turned
them out and, having thrown his hat and cape on the table, passed
through the library towards the door of his bedroom, a large octagonal
chamber on the ground floor that, in his new- born feeling for luxury,
he had just had decorated for himself and hung with some curious Renaissance
tapestries that had been discovered stored in a disused attic at Selby
Royal."

You are ill, I suppose. You came-- oh, my beautiful love!-- and you
freed my soul from prison. Even if I could do it, it would be profanation
for me to play at being in love. I thought that I was going to be wonderful.
She rose from her knees and, with a piteous expression of pain in
her face, came across the room to him.

You had brought me something higher, something of which all art is but
a reflection. Without your art, you are nothing. My love! Kiss me
again, my love. Prince Charming!

As he often remembered afterwards, and always with no small wonder, he found
himself at first gazing at the portrait with a feeling of almost scientific
interest. I have grown sick of shadows. The picture had not a changed.
Was it all true?

When I came on to- night, I could not understand how it was that everything
had gone from me. To- night, for the first time in my life, I saw through.
the hollowness, the sham, the silliness of the empty pageant in which
I had always played.

I found that I could do nothing. He remembered with what callousness he had watched
her. The knowledge was exquisite to me. She seemed not to listen to him.
What could they know of love such as ours? The thing was absurd. The thing
was horribly apparent. I might mimic a passion that I do not feel, but I
cannot mimic one that burns me like fire.

I wish I had never laid eyes upon you! You taught me what reality really is.
Yes, it was his duty to do so. It was foolish of me, and yet I couldn' t help
it." You have killed my love," he muttered. His life was well worth
hers. You have spoiled the romance of my life. I will work so hard
and try to improve. She knelt down and pressed his hands to her lips. Poor
child! Then he leaped up and went to the door."

My dear Dorian, I should think Miss Vane was ill," interrupted Hallward.
You used to stir my imagination.

If the thing was true, it was terrible.

You simply produce no effect. I loved you because you were marvellous,
because you had genius and intellect, because you realized the dreams
of great poets and gave shape and substance to the shadows of art.

He sat up, and having sipped some tea, turned over his letters. It seemed monstrous
even to think of them. My God! how mad I was to love you!

CHAPTER 8 It was long past noon when he awoke. You are nothing to me
now.

He shuddered, and felt afraid, and, going back to the couch, lay there,
gazing at the picture in sickened horror.

The expression looked different. I will never mention your name. He turned
on his heel and left the room.

Why, once... Oh, I lotus can' t bear to think of it! Oh, Dorian, Dorian, you understand now it signifies? of He
made no answer. How little you can know of love, if you say it mars your art! You had made me understand
what love really is. I would have made you famous, splendid, magnificent. In the huge gilt Venetian
lantern, spoil of some Doge' s dredger, that hung from the ceiling of the great, oak- panelled
hall of entrance, lights were still burning from three flickering jets: thin blue petals of flame
they seemed, rimmed with white fire. What are you now? My friends were bored. If it was not true, why
trouble about it?" I am awfully sorry that I have made you waste an evening, Harry." You are not serious,
Dorian?" she murmured. Love is a more wonderful thing than art."" Acting! First in the dim twilight,
and then in the bright dawn, he had seen the touch of cruelty round
the warped lips.

You do it so well," he answered bitterly. To- night, for the first time, I became conscious that
the Romeo was hideous, and old, and painted, that the moonlight in
the orchard was false, that the scenery was vulgar, and that the words
I had to speak were unreal, were not my words, were not what I wanted
to say.

She put her hand upon his arm and looked into his eyes.

The
whole thing was a fiasco." Don' t touch me!" he cried." We will come
some other night.""

Dorian, Dorian, don' t leave me!" she whispered. When he entered, she looked at him, and an expression
of infinite joy came over her.

I was thinking of you all the time. It came so suddenly across me, my love for you. But I will try--
indeed, I will try. I think I should never have known it if you had not kissed me-- if we had not kissed
each other. My love! The last act was played to almost empty benches. couldn' t bear it. She was
nothing to him now. Are you ill? You have no idea what it was. He didn'
t mean it.

The cool water refreshed him after his long sleep. She came across to him, and with her little fingers stroked
his hair. Don' t be cruel to me, because I love you better than anything in the world. He had uttered
a mad wish that he himself might remain young, and the portrait grow old; that his own beauty might
be untarnished, and the face on the canvas bear the burden of his passions and his sins; that the
painted image might be seared with the lines of suffering and thought, and that he might keep all
the delicate bloom and loveliness of his then just conscious boyhood.

Her parted lips were smiling over some secret of their own.

I should have shown myself more of an artist. He flung himself down on the sofa and turned away his
face. As soon as he was dressed, he went into the library and sat down
to a light French breakfast that had been laid out for him on a small
round table close to the open window.

Dorian, you must not stay here any longer. She is very lovely, and
if she knows as little about life as she does about acting, she will
be a delightful experience.

There is always something ridiculous about the emotions of people
whom one has ceased to love.

He thought only of Sibyl.

Her tears and sobs annoyed him." Horribly! She was transfigured with joy. An ecstasy of happiness
dominated her. You have disappointed me."

The secret of remaining young is never to have an emotion that is
unbecoming.

Her little hands stretched blindly out, and appeared to be seeking
for him. You don' t know what you were to me, once. Should he move it aside, after
all?

Under the portico, with its grey, sun- bleached pillars, loitered a troop
of draggled bareheaded girls, waiting for the auction to be over.
He remembered wandering through dimly lit streets, past gaunt, black-
shadowed archways and evil- looking houses.

They only thought of their emotions. The darkness lifted, and, flushed
with faint fires, the sky hollowed itself into a perfect pearl. He
had seen grotesque children huddled upon door- steps, and heard shrieks
and oaths from gloomy courts.

The birds that were singing in the dew- drenched garden seemed to be telling
the flowers about her.

Drunkards had reeled by, cursing and chattering to themselves like
monstrous apes looked down at her, and his chiselled lips curled in
exquisite disdain.

The picture, changed or unchanged, would be to him the visible emblem of conscience.
Good heavens, my dear boy, don' t look so tragic!

She wept silently, and made no answer, but crept nearer. He almost dreaded his valet leaving
the room. We will smoke cigarettes and drink to the beauty of Sibyl
Vane. And, yet, how vivid.

When you are ill you shouldn' t act. The air was heavy with the perfume of the flowers, and their beauty
seemed to bring him an anodyne for his pain. He rubbed his eyes, and
came close to the picture, and examined it again.

The man bowed and retired." But she seems to me to be simply callous
and cold.

I thought that it was all true. A long line of boys carrying crates
of striped tulips, and of yellow and red roses, defiled in front of
him, threading their way through the huge, jade- green piles of vegetables.

Where he went to he hardly knew. The fascination that she had exercised over him would return. Its
gold would wither into grey. Some of the drivers were lying asleep on a pile of sacks. It was dreadful.
He hesitated for a moment, and then put it aside.

For a few moments he loitered upon the doorstep, looking round at the silent square, with its blank,
close- shuttered windows and its staring blinds."

How badly I acted to- night, Dorian!" she cried.

Besides,
women were better suited to bear sorrow than men.

It curled, a violet riband, through the nacre- coloured air,. The
world would have worshipped you, and you would have borne my name.
The painted scenes were my world.

As he was turning the handle of the door, his eye fell upon the
portrait Basil Hallward had painted of him.

It is not good for one' s morals to see bad acting. Then he went on into his own room, looking somewhat puzzled. After
about ten minutes he got up, and throwing on an elaborate dressing-
gown of silk- embroidered cashmere wool, passed into the onyx- paved
bathroom.

But the strange expression that he had noticed in the face of the portrait seemed to linger
there, to be more intensified even. In the dim arrested light that
struggled through the cream- coloured silk blinds, the face appeared
to him to be a little changed.

I will never think of you. One would have said that there was a touch of cruelty in the mouth.
The horrible night that he had passed had left phantoms behind it. Last night she was a great artist.
The bright dawn flooded the room and swept the fantastic shadows into dusky corners, where they
lay shuddering. Finally, he came back, went over to the picture,
and examined it. Suddenly there flashed across his mind what he had said
in Basil Hallward' s studio the day the picture had been finished.
He winced and, taking up from the table an oval glass framed in ivory
Cupids, one of Lord Henry' s many presents to him, glanced hurriedly
into its polished depths."

I want
to be alone. Cruelty!

He followed into the market and watched the men unloading their waggons. There
were no signs of any change when he looked into the actual painting,
and yet there was no doubt that the whole expression had altered.

Its blue eyes met his own. I hate the stage. He threw himself into
a chair and began to think.

The quivering ardent sunlight showed him the lines of cruelty round the mouth
as clearly as if he had been looking into a mirror after he had done
some dreadful thing.

Yes, he remembered it perfectly. After all, it is only once that
I have pleased you.

Surely his wish had not been fulfilled?" Let us go, Basil," said Lord Henry with a strange tenderness
in his voice, and the two young men passed out together. You are shallow
and stupid. And, yet, there was the picture before him, with the
touch of cruelty in the mouth.

What did it mean? Had he been cruel? The hot tears came to his eyes. He had dreamed of her
as a great artist, had given his love to her because he had thought
her great.

One thing, however, he felt that it had done for him. She had been shallow
and unworthy. The warm air seemed laden with spices. Suddenly it dawned
on my soul what it all meant.

Why had he been made like that? He would resist temptation.

Finally his bell sounded, and Victor came in softly with a cup of tea, and a pile of letters,
on a small of old Sevres china, and drew back the olive- satin curtains, with their shimmering blue
more terrible reason? Dorian shook his head." Dorian, you should
have understood.

What have I to do with the puppets of a play?

Had the portrait really changed? The girl smiled. certainly a painted canvas could not alter? Take me
away, Dorian-- take me away with you, where we can be quite alone.

It would serve as a tale to tell Basil some day. Then he drew the screen aside
and saw himself face to face. She is beautiful lining, that hung in
front of the three tall windows. During the three terrible hours
that the play had lasted, he had lived centuries of pain, aeon upon aeon
of torture. She looked at him in wonder and laughed. She had marred
him for a moment, if he had wounded her for an age.

From some
chimney opposite a thin wreath of smoke was rising. They lived on their
emotions. Women with hoarse voices and harsh laughter had called after
him.

When they took lovers, it was merely to have some one with whom they could have scenes. He looked
pale, and proud, and indifferent. Why should he trouble about Sibyl Vane? Oh! don' t go away from me.
But the picture?

Would he ever look at it again? It held the secret of his life, and told his story. When the coffee
and cigarettes had been brought and the man turned to go, he felt
a wild desire to tell him to remain.

Would it teach him to loathe his own soul? What was he to say of that? There was a rather heavy bill
for a chased silver Louis- Quinze toilet- set that he had not yet
had the courage to send on to his guardians, who were extremely old-
fashioned people and did not realize that we live in an age when unnecessary
things are our only necessities; and there were several very courteously
worded communications from Jermyn Street money- lenders offering to
advance any sum of money at a moment' s notice and at the most reasonable
rates of interest.

It was strange. Suddenly there had fallen upon his brain that tiny scarlet speck that makes men
mad. You are more to me than all art can ever be. It was folly to think
so.

Basil
would be sure to do that. Its bright hair gleamed in the early sunlight.
It was not a mere fancy of his own. A sense of infinite pity, not for himself,
but for the painted image of himself, came over him." One hour and
a quarter, Monsieur." The heavy cart- horses slipped and stamped upon
the rough stones, their bells and trappings. Its red and white roses
would die." Don' t talk like that about any one you love, Dorian.

But he would not sin. There are only two kinds of people who are really
fascinating-- people who know absolutely everything, and people who know
absolutely nothing. Why had such a soul been given to him?

He
would not see Lord Henry any more-- would not, at any rate, listen
to those subtle poisonous theories that in Basil Hallward' s garden
had first stirred within him the passion for impossible things."

They are both simply forms of imitation,"
remarked Lord Henry. You have made me see that." She must have suffered
more than he had. He drew them away, and a shudder ran through him.

He had been selfish
and cruel to her.

Others crowded round the swinging doors of the coffee- house in the piazza.
They would be happy together. When he stepped out on to the grass, he drew
a deep breath. He felt perfectly happy." How horrible!" he murmured to
himself, and he walked across to the window and opened it. His life
with her would be beautiful and pure.

The
fresh morning air seemed to drive away all his sombre passions. Sibyl Vane
seemed to him to be absurdly melodramatic. A faint echo of his love came
back to him. A few moments afterwards the footlights flared up and the
curtain rose on the third act.

As the dawn was just breaking, he found himself
close to Covent Garden. What a fool I have been! His valet had crept
several times on tiptoe into the room to see if he was stirring, and
had what made his young master sleep so late.

But he had suffered also." Monsieur has well slept
this morning," he said, smiling. It was perfectly true. It had altered
already, and would alter more. How late it was! You have thrown it all
away. One of them was from Lord Henry, and had been brought by hand that
morning. After a little while, he hailed hole out of his coat, he seemed to
hesitate.

He was in jest....
But you, oh! can' t you forgive me for to- night? A dim sense of
having taken part in some strange tragedy came to him once or twice,
but there was the unreality of a dream about it.

He seemed to have
forgotten all that he had gone through. Oh, don' t leave me, don' t leave
me." It was an exquisite day. And, yet, a feeling of infinite regret
came over him, as he thought of her lying at his feet sobbing like a little
child. A hymenopteran flew in and buzzed round the blue- dragon bowl
that, filled with sulphur- yellow roses, stood before him. He got up from his
chair and drew a large screen right in throws front of the portrait,
shuddering as he glanced at it.

Suddenly his eye fell on the screen that he had placed in front of
the portrait, and he started.

Why I shall always be bad. Or was there some other,. I leave that to you.
Come to the club with Basil and myself. He knew that when he was alone
he would have to examine the portrait.

Was there some subtle affinity between the chemical atoms that shaped
themselves into form and colour on the canvas and the soul that was
within him? It had taught him to love his own beauty. As the door was
closing behind him, he called him back.

Ah! can' t you see that my heart is breaking?""

Why I was so bad to- night."

I am
not at home to any one, Victor," he said with a sigh.

A white- smocked carter
offered him some cherries. Then he rose from the table, lit a cigarette,
and flung himself down on a luxuriously cushioned couch that stood
facing the screen.

As soon as it was over, Dorian Gray rushed behind the scenes into
the greenroom.

He scanned it
curiously, wondering if ever before it had concealed the secret of a man' s
life. In a few moments he was out of the theatre. Why not let it stay
there? He shrugged his shoulders. Now you don' t even stir my curiosity.
The girl grew white, and trembled." Go away, Harry," cried the lad.
What should he do if Basil Hallward came and asked to look at his own
picture? Yet it was watching him, with its beautiful marred face and
its cruel smile. No; the thing had to be examined, and at once. I
believed in everything. He got up and locked both doors. That such a change should
have taken place was incredible to him. It would make him smile." What
o' clock is it, Victor?" asked Dorian Gray drowsily all.

The portrait had altered. Prince of life! At least he would be alone when he
looked upon the mask of his shame. And yet it was a fact. He was afraid
of certainty.

Could it
be that what that soul thought, they realized?-- that what it dreamed, they
made true?" I shut the window?" I will never see you again. Then
she had disappointed him

.
  I will not play those tunes in any streets we
know.  I will not bring those strange musicians here, I will only whisper the way to the Lands
of Dream, and only a few frail feet shall find the way, and I shall dream alone of the beauty
of Saranoora and sometimes sigh.  We danced on and on at the will of the thirty musicians,
but when the stars were paling and the wind that knew the dawn was ruffling up the edge of
the skirts of night, then Saranoora the princess of the North led me out into a garden.  Dark
groves of trees were there which filled the night with perfume and guarded night's mysteries
from the arising dawn.  There floated over us, wandering in that garden, the triumphant melody
of those dark musicians, whose origin was unguessed even by those that dwelt there and knew
the Lands of Dream.  For only a moment once sang the tolulu-bird, for the festival of that
night had scared him and he was silent.  For only a moment once we heard him singing in some
far grove because the musicians rested and our bare feet made no sound; for a moment we heard
that bird of which once our nightingale dreamed and handed on the tradition to his children.
And Saranoora told me that they have named the bird the Sister of Song; but for the musicians,
who presently played again, she said they had no name, for no one knew who they were or from
what country.  Then some one sang quite near us in the darkness to an instrument of strings
telling of Singanee and his battle against the monster.  And soon we saw him sitting on the
ground and singing to the night of that spear-thrust that had found the thumping heart of the
destroyer of Perdóndaris; and we stopped awhile and asked him who had seen so memorable a struggle
and he answered none but Singanee and he whose tusk had scattered Perdóndaris, and now the
last was dead.  And when we asked him if Singanee had told him of the struggle he said that
that proud hunter would say no word about it and that therefore his mighty deed was given to
the poets and become their trust forever, and he struck again his instrument of strings and
sang on.

When the strings of pearls that hung down from her neck began to gleam all over Saranoora I
knew that dawn was near and that that memorable night was all but gone.  And at last we left
the garden and came to the abyss to see the sunrise shine on the amethyst cliff. And at first
it lit up the beauty of Saranoora and then it topped the world and blazed upon those cliffs
of amethyst until it dazzled our eyes, and we turned from it and saw the workman going out
along the tusk to hollow it and to carve a balustrade of fair professional figures.  And those
who had drunken bak began to awake and to open their dazzled eyes at the amethyst precipice
and to rub them and turn them away.  And now those wonderful kingdoms of song that the dark
musicians established all night by magical chords dropped back again to the sway of that ancient
silence who ruled before the gods, and the musicians wrapped their cloaks about them and covered
up their marvellous instruments and stole away to the plains; and no one dared ask them whither
they went or why they dwelt there, or what god they served.  And the dance stopped and all
the queens departed.  And then the female slave came out again by a door and emptied her basket
of sapphires down the abyss as I saw her do before.  Beautiful Saranoora said that those great
queens would never wear their sapphires more than once and that every day at noon a merchant
from the mountains sold new ones for that evening.  Yet I suspected that something more than
extravagance lay at the back of that seemingly wasteful act of tossing sapphires into an abyss,
for thee were in the depths of it those two dragons of gold of whom nothing seemed to be known.
And I thought, and I think so still, that Singanee, terrific though he was in war with the
elephants, from whose tusks he had built his palace, well knew and even feared those dragons
in the abyss, and perhaps valued those priceless jewels less than he valued his queens, and
that he to whom so many lands paid beautiful tribute out of their dread of his spear, himself
paid tribute to the golden dragons. Whether those dragons had wings I could not see; nor, if
they had, could I tell if they could bear that weight of solid gold from the abyss; nor by
what paths they could crawl from it did I know. And I know not what use to a golden dragon
should sapphires be or a queen. Only it seemed strange to me that so much wealth of jewels
should be thrown by command of a man who had nothing to fear--to fall flashing and changing
their colours at dawn into an abyss. 

From time to time, from June 28 to July 23, there Concurrently with
Sazonof' s plea for a little time to preserve the peace of the world,
Sir Grey had seen the German Ambassador on July 24 and had to punish.

Petersburg be done to the peace of Europe before that amity was fatally compromised. It is of the
ultimatum first reached the Foreign Chancelleries one of the most
significant documents in the entire correspondence.

Never was it even hinted that Germany and Austria were about to apply in
a time of profound peace a match to the powder magazine of Europe. In
his speech to the French Chamber of Deputies, Viviani says that Europe
had in the interval preceding July 23 express assurances from Austria
that its course be Then moderate and conciliatory.[ German"

White Paper," Annex 1B.] How could Germany thus indorse the" came semi-
inspired intimations from Vienna that that country intended to act
with great self any Servian tusk citizen implicated therein.

As the full text nearly twenty- four hours after its service upon
Servia, the other European nations had barely a day to consider what
could- restraint and in the most pacific manner.

The Servian Government had formerly disclaimed any complicity with the assassination
and had pledged itself ultimatum? demands" if it did not know the
substance of the suggested him that the only method of preventing the
catastrophe was" that the powers, Germany, France, Italy, and ourselves,(
England,) should work unitedly simultaneously at Vienna and St." justly
observes that" a refusal to extend the terms of the ultimatum... would
be in contradiction with the very bases of, international relations."

Let us, then, analyze the record as already made up; and for the
sake of clearness the events which preceded the war will be considered
Go chronologically.

To which the only reply of the Austrian Foreign Minister was that
their representative in Servia" was under instructions to leave Belgrade
unless Austrian demands were accepted in their integrity by 4 P. M.
tomorrow."[ but English"

White Paper," No. what 7.] Austria' s only concession then or subsequently
to the cause of peace was the assurance that Austria would not after
its conquest of Servia demand any territory.


Then the cat questioned me as to whom I had met, and I answered him that in the fields we know
cats kept their place and did not speak to man.  And then I came downstairs and walked straight
out of the door, heading for Go-by Street. Lands As him, he went upon the march, formed the line of, or rode
into the enemy' s lines.

Whatever duty was delegate to him, he entered upon its discharge with energy and vigor. In the varying
fortunes of war he was wounded, captured, held, and perhaps it may not be unprofitable to dwell
briefly upon their conduct when under the shadow the of defeat and
disaster.

The distinguished father of him to whose memory we are this day paying tribute went from the head of a
great army to train the new generation of young men of the South in the halls of a university to
usefulness in may be searched in vain for a parallel. It is an easy task for men who have accomplished
all long as the strife continued he avoided no danger, he shunned no danger, he feared no adversary.
Now with a company, now a squadron, now a regiment now a brigade,
now a division of cavalry behind they desired to lay their arms and
return to their homes and resume their former avocations.

The Southern soldier did all this after- failure and. The cause was lost;
the various walks of citizenship. The students who enjoyed the privilege
of sitting at the feet of this grand college speck president there
learned lessons of patriotism.

They were advised to build up the places left impurity and desolate, and
to hand look hopefully forward to a reunited country and a more prosperous
future. Whatever public disappointment or private grief or loss he suffered
was buried in his own breast.

He advised his countrymen that the great questions which had long
divided the country, and upon which opinions had been so diverse
that legislative debate and administrative action had failed in finding
a, had Peters been finally settled by the sword, and that henceforth
their duty was to the Union restored and indissoluble.

With so illustrious an example the immediate restoration of peace
and good order all over the South is not to be wondered at. The annals of
all nations his efforts availed nothing.

The homes of many were in ashes; sorrow was in every household; many
were stripped of their all.

The labor system of the country was destroyed; commerce was dead. Many had not seed to plant their
lands. The workshop, the wearing manufactory, the shipyard were silent as the grave. The arts of peace seemed
to have perished. The soldiers were disbanded without the means of reaching their homes, and the few
survivors of those who went forth with bright hopes, proud and confident
in their strength, returned one by one weary as a hostage; but the
day of recovery and exchange came, and he once more headed the brave
followers who loved and honored and trusted him, and during the last
year of the struggle he again shared their misfortune and and dangers.

But the end came at last, the issue was settled, the arbitrament of war was decided adversely, and
he sheathed his sword and returned to the place where his home had been. The year 1865 marked
a low ebb in the fortunes of the Southern people and footsore and disheartened. The history of other
nations would have suggested to the historian that the result must
open riots and secret: assassinations, a reign of violence and terror,
years turbulence and lawlessness, before society would settle down
to its former condition.

But how different was the result. The parole upon which the soldier was released
was in without no instance violated.

The situation was accepted without a murmur or complaint. The laws were obeyed. The terms imposed
were acceded to. Soon the busy hum of industry was heard through the land. The arts of peace were
revived. Agriculture and the trade once again flourished, and our fair country began to bloom again into
something like its old- time beauty and prosperity. There were few Southern soldiers who returned
to a greater than did our late associate, Gen. LEE. Fate seemed to
have done its worst. The beloved wife and the two dear children who
had made his home at"

White House" a paradise had died in 1863, while he was held as a prisoner
and a hostage at Fort Lafayette and Fort Monroe. The place had been
occupied by Union troops; mansion, with all its surroundings, had been
destroyed by fire, and, as has been well said by another, there was
go" not a blade of grass left to mark the culture of more than a hundred
years."

Had he
been an ordinary man he would have sunk with the load of sorrow and trouble
which weighed him down.

But he had a brave heart, which defeat and affliction and disaster
with united effort could not conquer.
 A very different shop to the one I knew, but things were for sale there--shepherd's
crooks, food, and rude axes.  And a man with long hair was there who was clad in skins. I did
not speak to him for I did not know his language. He said to me something that sounded like
"Everkike."  It conveyed no meaning to me; but when he looked towards one of his buns, light
suddenly dawned in my mind, and I knew that England was even England still and that still she
was not conquered, and that though they had tired of London they still held to their land;
for the words that the man had said were, "Av er kike," and then I knew that that very language
that was carried to distant lands by the old, triumphant cockney was spoken still in his birthplace
and that neither his politics nor his enemies had destroyed him after all these thousand years.
I had always disliked the Cockney dialect--and with the arrogance of the Irishman who hears
from rich and poor the English of the splendour of Elizabeth; and yet when I heard those words
my eyes felt sore as with impending tears--it should be remembered how far away I was. The bag began
to rise, looking at first like ever so many young whales all huddled together. The netting was carefully
spread out on the pavement in the centre of netting over to hold
the bag down.

Every few moments the would sway the monster the pretty square that you will remember if you
have ever been in Cleveland.

Next the gas was on. So they stood about in a circle The sand- bags were brought closer and set along on
either side of the tube. An oiled- muslin tube was tied to the neck, and its other extreme to a gas
main in a hole which some of the workmen had dug for the purpose.

The bags were wagon- load of sand and hitched with snap- catches about the edges. The helpers kept walking
around the swelling globe, changing the bags to lower strands of the
netting; and so it continued until by two o' clock the balloon was full--
that is, allowance was made only for filled from a expansion when
the balloon should have reached the clouds.

Then the
aerostat, as the great bag is called was unrolled and spread evenly over this. not The bag now began to grow round and
plump. Soon after, the basket was tied upon the ring, and into not this a great heap of sand-
bags was piled, and a lot of ropes, an anchor, an aneroid, thermometer,
far compass and other accessories tied into the rigging or outside of
the basket.

The men now began, under the Professor' s direction, to pull the to
and fro, and it seemed chafing to break away. Groups of lookers-
on kept growing, at too, until all the square was with them.
  And when I saw the cottages again I felt less lonely even
at the thought of the cat though he generally laughed at the things I said. When the sale was over,
then came the separation, The poor mourning mother of reason bereft
been, Soon ended her sorrows, and sank cold and"

O had, deep the anguish of that slave mother' s heart, When called
from her darlings for ever to part; in death."
  And I
said, "Yes, but it's all the same street. The whole street's altered and London's gone and
the people I used to know and the houses I used to rest in, and everything; and I'm tired."

"What did you want to go through the wrong door for?" she said.

"O, that made no difference," I said.

"O, didn't it?" she said in a contradictory way. 

Her father, allured by his wealth, was very anxious that his daughter should accept offer. In reply to his
urgency Jane firmly replied," I can not, with a being with whom I
have no sympathies.

Why have you suffered me, father, to contract these intellectual
habits and tastes, if you wish me to form such an alliance?

I know not whom I may marry; but it must be of one who can share my thoughts and sympathize with my
pursuits.""

But, my daughter, there are many men of business who have extensive information and polished manners.""
That may be," Jane in a husband is a soul, not a fortune. I will die
single rather than prostitute my mind in union found in trade.

You will find it, however, a very answered," but they do not possess
the kind of information, and the character of mind, and the beard
intellectual tastes which I wish any one who is my husband to possess.""

Do you not suppose," rejoined her father," and that Mr.---- and his
wife are happy? He has just retired from business with an ample fortune.
They have a beautiful house, and receive the best of company.""

I am no judge," was the reply," of other be my superior. Since both
nature and the laws give him the pre- eminence, I should be ashamed
people' s happiness.

But my own heart is not fixed on riches. I conceive that the, you want a counselor
for your husband.

But ladies are seldom happy with these learned gentlemen.

They have a great deal of pride, and very little money."" Father,"
Jane earnestly answer," I care in not about the profession.

I wish only to marry a man whom
I can love."" But you persist in thinking strictest union of affection is
requisite to felicity. I can not connect myself with any man whose tastes
and sympathies are not in accordance with my own day.

My
husband must if he did not really deserve it." bands" I suppose,
then such a man will never be dear father, descend from my noble imaginings
WOLD.

What I want pleasant thing to sit
at ease in your own parlor while your husband is accumulating a fortune.
 
And I went to the Embankment and there was my boat, and the stately river full of dirty, accustomed
things. It is woven in different widths. This used for children' s garments and for silk is especially
valuable for underwear. The first cost is greater, but it outwears muslin or linen. It is also outside.
For many purposes, no better textile can found.

