SAMANTHA AT SARATOGA  BY JOSIAH ALLEN'S WIFE
                          (Marietta Holly)

Dedication:

                       TO THE GREAT ARMY OF
                          SUMMER TRAMPS
                      THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED
               BY THEIR COMRADE AND FELLOW WANDERER
                            THE AUTHOR

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I. SAMANTHA AT SARATOGA

CHAPTER II. ARDELIA TUTT AND HER MOTHER

CHAPTER III. THE CHERITY OF THE JONESVILLIANS

CHAPTER IV. ARDELIA AND ABRAM GEE

CHAPTER V. WE ARRIVE AT SARATOGA

CHAPTER VI. SARATOGA BY DAYLIGHT

CHAPTER VII. SEEING THE DIFFERENT SPRINGS

CHAPTER VIII. JOSIAH AND SAMANTHA TAKE A LONG WALK

CHAPTER IX. JOSIAH'S FLIRTATIONS

CHAPTER X. MISS G. WASHINGTON FLAMM

CHAPTER XI. VISIT TO THE INDIAN ENCAMPMENT

CHAPTER XII. A DRIVE TO SARATOGA LAKE

CHAPTER XIII. VISITS TO NOTABLE PLACES

CHAPTER XIV. LAKE GEORGE AND MOUNT McGREGOR

CHAPTER XV. ADVENTURES AT VARIOUS SPRINGS

CHAPTER XVI. AT A LAWN PARTY

CHAPTER XVII. A TRIP TO SCHUYLERVILLE

CHAPTER XVIII. THE SOCIAL SCIENCE MEETING

CHAPTER XIX. ST. CHRISTINA'S HOME

CHAPTER XX. AN ACCIDENT WITH RESULTS

 A SORT OF PREFACE.

WHICH IT IS NOT NECESSARY TO READ.

When Josiah read my dedication he said "it wuz a shame to dedicate a book that it had took
most a hull bottle of ink to write, to a lot of creeters that he wouldn't have in the back
door yard."

But I explained it to him, that I didn't mean tramps with broken hats, variegated pantaloons,
ventilated shirt-sleeves, and barefooted.  But I meant tramps with diamond ear-rings, and cuff-buttons,
and Saratoga trunks, and big accounts at their bankers.

And he said, "Oh, shaw!"

But I went on nobly, onmindful of that shaw, as female pardners have to be, if they accomplish
all the talkin' they want to.

And sez I, "It duz seem sort o' pitiful, don't it, to think how sort o' homeless the Americans
are a gettin'?  How the posys that blow under the winders of Home are left to waste their sweet
breaths amongst the weeds, while them that used to love 'em are a climbin' mountain tops after
strange nosegays."

The smoke that curled up from the chimbleys, a wreathin' its way up to the heavens -- all dead
and gone.  The bright light that shone out of the winder through the dark a tellin' everybody
that there wuz a Home, and some one a waitin' for somebody -- all dark and lonesome.

Yes, the waiter and the waited for are all a rushin' round somewhere, on the cars, mebby, or
a yot, a chasin' Pleasure, that like as not settled right down on the eves of the old house
they left, and stayed there.

I wonder if they will find her there when they go back again. Mebby they will, and then agin,
mebby they won't.  For Happiness haint one to set round and lame herself a waitin' for folks
to make up their minds.

Sometimes she looks folks full in the face, sort o' solemn like and heart-searchin', and gives
'em a fair chance what they will chuse.  And then if they chuse wrong, shee'll turn her back
to 'em, for always.  I've hearn of jest such cases.

But it duz seem sort o' solemn to think -- how the sweet restful felin's that clings like ivy
round the old familier door steps -- where old 4 fathers feet stopped, and stayed there, and
baby feet touched and then went away -- I declare for't, it almost brings tears, to think how
that sweet clingin' vine of affection, and domestic repose, and content -- how soon that vine
gets tore up nowadays.

It is a sort of a runnin' vine anyway, and folks use it as sech, they run with it.  Jest as
it puts its tendrils out to cling round some fence post, or lilock bush, they pull it up, and
start off with it.  And then its roots get dry, and it is some time before it will begin to
put out little shoots and clingin' leaves agin round some petickular mountain top, or bureau
or human bein'.  And then it is yanked up agin, poor little runnin' vine, and run with -- and
so on -- and so on -- and so on.

Why sometimes it makes me fairly heart-sick to think on't.  And I fairly envy our old 4 fathers,
who used to set down for several hundred years in one spot.  They used to get real rested,
it must be they did.

Jacob now, settin' right by that well of his'n for pretty nigh two hundred years.  How much
store he must have set by it during the last hundred years of 'em!  How attached he must have
been to it!

Good land!  Where is there a well that one of our rich old American patriarks will set down
by for two years, leavin' off the orts.  There haint none, there haint no such a well.  Our
patriarks haint fond of well water, anyway.

And old Miss Abraham now, and Miss Isaac -- what stay to home wimmen they wuz, and equinomical!

What a good contented creeter Sarah Abraham wuz.  How settled down, and stiddy, stayin' right
to home for hundreds of years. Not gettin' rampent for a wider spear, not a coaxin' old Mr.
Abraham nights to take her to summer resorts, and winter hants of fashion.

No, old Mr. Abraham went to bed, and went to sleep for all of her.

And when they did once in a hundred years, or so, make up their minds to move on a mile or
so, how easy they traveled.  Mr. Abraham didn't have to lug off ten or twelve wagon loads of
furniture to the Safe Deposit Company, and spend weeks and weeks a settlin' his bisness, in
Western lands, and Northern mines, Southern railroads, and Eastern wildcat stocks, to get ready
to go.  And Miss Abraham didn't have to have a dozen dress-makers in the house for a month
or two, and messenger boys, and dry goods clerks, and have to stand and be fitted for basks
and polenays, and back drapery, and front drapery, and tea gowns, and dinner gowns, and drivin'
gowns, and mornin' gowns, and evenin' gowns, and etectery, etcetery, etcetery.

No, all the preperations she had to make wuz to wrop her mantilly a little closter round her,
and all Mr. Abraham had to do wuz to gird up his lions.  That is what it sez.  And I don't
believe it would take much time to gird up a few lions, it don't seem to me as if it would.

And when these few simple preperations had been made, they jest histed up their tent and laid
it acrost a camel, and moved on a mild or two, walkin' afoot.

Why jest imagine if Miss Abraham had to travel with eight or ten big Saratoga trunks, how could
they have been got up onto that camel?  It couldn't lave been done.  The camel would have died,
and old Mr. Abraham would also have expired a tryin' to lift 'em up.  No, it was all for the best.

And jest think on't, for all of these simple, stay to home ways, they called themselves Pilgrims
and Sojourners.  Good land!  What would they have thought nowadays to see folks make nothin'
of settin' off for China, or Japan or Jerusalem before breakfast.

And what did they know of the hardships of civilization?  Now to sposen the case, sposen Miss
Abraham had to live in New York winters, and go to two or three big receptions every day, and
to dinner parties, and theatre parties, and operas and such like, evenin's, and receive and
return about three thousand calls, and be on more 'n a dozen charitable boards (hard boards
they be too, some on 'em) and lots of other projects and enterprizes -- be on the go the hull
winter, with a dress so tight she couldn't breathe instead of her good loose robes, and instead
of her good comfortable sandals have her feet upon high-heeled shoes pinchin' her corns almost
unto distraction.  And then to Washington to go all through it agin, and more too, and Florida,
and Cuba; and then to the sea-shore and have it all over agin with sea bathin' added.

And then to the mountains, and all over agin with climbin' round added.  Then to Europe, with
seas sickness, picture galleries, etc., added.  And so on home agin in the fall to begin it
all over agin.

Why Miss Abraham would be so tuckered out before she went half through with one season, that
she would be a dead 4 mother.

And Mr. Abraham -- why one half hour down at the stock exchange would have been too much for
that good old creeter.  The yells and cries, and distracted movements of the crowd of Luker
Gatherers there, would have skairt him to death.  He never would have lived to follow Miss
Abraham round from pillow to post through summer and winter seasons -- he wouldn't have lived
to waltz, or toboggen, or suffer other civilized agonies.  No, he would have been a dead patriark.
And better off so, I almost think.

Not but what I realize that civilization has its advantages.  Not but what I know that if Mr.
Abraham wanted Miss Abraham to part his hair straight, or clean off his phylackrity when she
happened to be out a pickin' up manny, he couldn't stand on one side of his tent and telephone
to bring her back, but had to yell at her.

And I realize fully that if one of his herd got strayed off into another county, they hadn't
no telegraf to head it off, but the old man had to poke off through rain or sun, and hunt it
up himself.  And he couldn't set down cross-legged in front of his tent in the mornin', and
read what happened on the other side of the world, the evenin' before.

And I know that if he wanted to set down some news, they had to kill a sheep, and spend several
years a dressin' off the hide into parchment -- and kill a goose, or chase it up till they
wuz beat out, for a goose-quill.

And then after about 20 years or so, they could put it down that Miss Isaac had got a boy --
the boy, probably bein' a married man himself and a father when the news of his birth wuz set down.

I realize this, and also the great fundimental fact that underlies all philosophies, that you
can't set down and stand up at the same time -- and that no man, however pure and lofty his
motives may be, can't lean up against a barn door, and walk off simultanious. And if he don't
walk off, then the great question comes in, How will he get there?  And he feels lots of times
that he must stand up so's to bring his head up above the mullien and burdock stalks, amongst
which he is a settin', and get a wider view-a broader horizeon.  And he feels lots of time,
that he must get there.

This is a sort of a curius world, and it makes me feel curius a good deal of the time as we
go through it.  But we have to make allowances for it, for the old world is on a tramp, too.
It can't seem to stop a minute to oil up its old axeltrys -- it moves on, and takes us with
it.  It seems to be in a hurry.

Everything seems to be in a hurry here below.  And some say Heaven is a place of continual
sailin' round and goin' up and up all the time.  But while risin' up and soarin' is a sweet
thought to me, still sometimes I love to think that Heaven is a place where I can set down,
and set for some time.

I told Josiah so (waked him up, for he wuz asleep), and he said he sot more store on the golden
streets, and the wavin' palms, and the procession of angels.  (And then he went to sleep agin.)

But I don't feel so.  I'd love, as I say, to jest set down for quite a spell, and set there,
to be kinder settled down and to home with them whose presence makes a home anywhere.  I wouldn't
give a cent to sail round unless I wuz made to know it wuz my duty to sail.  Josiah wants to.

But, as I say, everybody is in a hurry.  Husbands can't hardly find time to keep up a acquaintance
with their wives.  Fathers don't have no time to get up a intimate acquaintance with their
children.  Mothers are in such a hurry -- babys are in such a hurry -- that they can't scarcely
find time to be born.  And I declare for't, it seems sometimes as if folks don't want to take
time to die.

The old folks at home wait with faithful, tired old eyes for the letter that don't come, for
the busy son or daughter hasn't time to write it -- no, they are too busy a tearin' up the
running vine of affection and home love, and a runnin' with it.

Yes, the hull nation is in a hurry to get somewhere else, to go on, it can't wait.  It is a
trampin' on over the Western slopes, a trampin' over red men, and black men, and some white
men a hurryin' on to the West -- hurryin' on to the sea.  And what then?

Is there a tide of restfulness a layin' before it?  Some cool waters of repose where it will
bathe its tired forward, and its stun-bruised feet, and set there for some time?

I don't s'pose so.  I don't s'pose it is in its nater to.  I s'pose it will look off longingly
onto the far off somewhere that lays over the waters -- beyend the sunset. 

                                           The youngest of them think
the kings men.

Look, look what happens around the world, each Castilian is a king,
and seek other worlds previously unknown to rule and enslave.

Oh, if you had been reigning in yours Alhambra, with much disdain
would not look that lover, those gentlemen! ... Oh, if you could but
see the Castilians killing your people, insulting yours, full of blood
and insult our buildings and our women! But I do not run away, Mary.

You see how I call you that you want it, I do not run away, Mary, you are so merciful to strangers,
you be hard just to yours, and will keep the most unheard-of cruelty to your uncle, for whom was
your support and loving mother? Since that would want to repeat it.

The least of these reasons smashed the innermost secrets of the soft breast of the unhappy Mary
shed tears, and walked, crying and running toward the bridge, always
frightened by the flight to Africa, and the horror of apostasy. Gerif
that dragging and flying (as these names found worthy of their uneven
steps), having improved his career somewhat, reached by that to see
more distinctly the runaway niece. - I do not run away - the repeated
- I do not run away, and give me your arm to hold, because I was tired,
fainting, and I fail to make a move.

Come, come, my Mary, I will deliver it to Africa taken away from you, if you've got so attached to this unhappy
land, also, alas! I have him for my wrong.

Come,
Mary, I'll be glad to leave you out, I want to be with you, see me, and
down to earth in the arms yours.

Look at me as I cry shame that you did not plead and Muley, grant me you not to leave me, and
I raise my hand in my prayers. Look, I wanted to see who is connected with your blood, and who
you love as their eyes, but now I ask not, for it is that your will :
I do not want you to kill your own taste throwing those loves, loves
to such a Christian, but, by God, do not leave your uncle look at
me how falter.

The mongrel, who was on the bridge and in the opposite half of the arc, as if waiting for his
benefactress, began to beat with joy, to perceive the shadows and
trees.

He was about jumping to receive it, when Mary, hearing the pathetic reasons for Gerif knotted throat
pain, chest and drowning a thousand sighs anxieties, hesitates and stops, and forgotten all, resolves
back to the uncle, and not forsake hug. Such complaints would have broken a breast that had a flint,
not yours, so full of gratitude and piety.

I came back loving panting, when the take the first step on the opposite bank heard the fight of swords.
Muley, and released from his prison, furious measured swords with
rival who had freed him.

Mary attends, listens, and is among the pale darkness sparks of steel.
Guess what may be, undecided which party fails to run first: in this hear
a deep groan, and think oh pain! be the focus of her lover. It conquers
all, terrified, back to the bridge, crosses the middle of the arc
light, is the horrible gap, as always, given the perilous leap, but
in this the mongrel, impatient with this delay, advanced decomposed
by the opposite side preventing the short walk to settle where it
should not fall.

Mary hesitated a moment, his agility repairs such danger, consolidating
branches of cattails that grew beside a moment longer and was saved,
but a whirlwind of air up those breasts dark, contrasting with many
obstacles, re-tilt the light body, and this time everything was in
vain for help.

In vain the mongrel, cracked teeth with their hair, struggled to save his benefactor, avoiding
so miserable failure. Forces beat and robbed unhappy the horrible abyss, which went on forever in
their incessant moaning.

A shrill cry was heard, and the air disappeared at once. The Lover (already defeated and wounded
Muley, because it was the cry pitiful) come to greet Mary, alerted by the barking of the dog, reaching
the edge of the bridge at the same point on the cruel catastrophe, and thus suffer excruciating torment
of seeing death before their eyes, and not only save the comfort
of his life , and of her wishes, ending at a point and so pitifully with
all its joys and hopes. desperation, and watching his beloved away
at that block, reaches the gap, and also gets down furiously for
him, wanting to complete their where there really had already lost
their lives.

The soldier and the other servants came just to hear the murmur of water to swallow the unhappy members
of Don Lope. The unfortunate Gerif, which kept him so long life heaven to witness such large
unhappiness, happened to come when even lasted the first of the continuing horror of Don Lope.
The despair of the unhappy old man who was cheating on the love of Mary's memoirs its past splendor
and power of his family, giving hideous screams, tearing clothes and pulling his beard, he expressed
his intense pain, Muley forgetting that, lifeless and bathed in their
blood, rolled a short distance from him.

Since the alarm, the whole village, Moors and Christians, young and
old, men and women, ran to the bridge, and fell all along the shore,
some with lighted torches, some with ropes, some with tables, and
all willing to risk his life in exchange to save the unhappy Mary.

But all was in vain: the next morning, well beaten on both sides,
only miserable mongrel was found still holding in his mouth somewhere in
the white robe Mary. The soldier, with tears in his eyes, picking up
the garment in her chest pain, was inquiring from stone to stone
by the river, and asking the villagers found: - Have you seen Mary?
At the end of afternoon and into the drain for the Guadiana, a miserable
fisherman told the night before, at a certain time, he heard the
river a few accents plaintive, trembling so much with them, which
claimed the door of his hut, fearing some miraculous appearance .

No more was heard of the lovers. Moorish credulity, colorful and imaginative
as that of the Greeks, who were delighted marked by caves that opened the
walls of these pits, which rise or fall, being inaccessible, gave
this same mystery hand a thousand tales and superstitions and many
claimed to have seen suspended in the midst of these cuts.

Muley, more fortunate than his conqueror and Mary, healing from his wounds at last, continued his
project of revolt and rebellion, if not performed by their own hands,
thanks to fear inspired by the Emperor Charles V, saw them put into
practice years later by his son, who was one of the kings of the Alpujarras.

Gerif failed to reach or the sigh of the Moor freedom, nor the terrible punishment on his own
verified, then sad, thoughtful, with Mary's name on the lips, wasted
little time in following the light of his eyes.

The soldier lost all comfort and forget their condition giving the wandering and adventure, not thought
or more fleets, or more Indians or more companies. Exchanging the guise of a beggar and a soldier
dressed in a gentle hermit's robe, made his room that same site, witnessed the catastrophe,
and always thinking of his unfortunate benefactor and her unhappy
lord, every day took the veil, only piece that was left of Mary, and
respectfully kissing and thronging tears to the eyes, very tender
re-imprisoned on his chest.

Mercado, tired of his life in the village, and it altered the relationship he had heard Arriscado
the old soldier, he decided to leave Spain and fortune. Prevented with
the languages that gave him his friend and other soldiers Francisco Carvajal
account, embarked in Seville with other adventurous young men, and
went to the lands of South America, where he won big name under the
title of Captain market.

Perhaps in the wilderness, the glow of fires, and surrounded by men who did not think leaving
Spain but in Spain, entertained the night telling of the disagreements
of the Moors and Christians and the sad end of Don Lope and Mary.

THE
TREASURES OF THE ALHAMBRA Darro's career is that, starting from Plaza Nueva, going to the Rambla del Chapiza,
rising Sacro Monte in Granada.

On the sinister side of magnificent buildings rise trace, cut by
the jaws of the streets leading down from the top of the Albaicin,
and right hand, for its channel deep, hearty winter, never exhausted
in the summer and always sounding and of course, is curled into the
rings Darro that offer picturesque bridges crown it.

Of these the principal is Santa Ana, in which area, and the same stonework of the bridge seats
or stalls are always full of curious, warm nights in June and July there are drenched perfumed
environment and voluptuous behind it is current.

They
were on vacation, and my friend and colleague Don Carlos, closed and our gatherings, we cited
to us in a certain place at a certain time to go together, and then
turning and other times the beam wander of the moon, retire to our inn,
to review the studies that we are both busy and then we were worth so
little. One night (and very close to his departure for the summer
with his parents) gave the twelve without having pursued the accustomed
place.

Already I was beginning to take care for his delay, when I saw him reach a happier and more loudly
than ever, and seizing of my hand with the warmest affection, I
apologized for his carelessness, and, as always, straightened to
our inn. That night FUEM impossible to make any speech open interest,
much less of our academic tasks. - Studies for pleasure and not out
of obligation - I said -.

Do you think it will appreciate our anxieties but excelled in college and we get all the laurels
of Minerva? If that happens, how would the fools?, And it is determined
that they always have to hobble around the world. So saying - continued
- from now on wiser flow through talks and not so much anger, and
now we can not attract the dream, now forget the pandects and codes.

Saying this, he began to introduce their projects, which were greater or more splendid if he
had to hand a million pesos, and its future acquisitions and for the estates I had to give, and
through travel inseparably had to take, I left him a madman or as
a man who was busy fantasizing about the hours of sleep and rest. The
next day, early in the morning, was already in his office, adding
and figuring quantities of immense value, and yet to have on hand
the money his family sent him for the trip, asked me to lend him three
coins were from one to another higher in the same.

I replied that the few currencies that had not kept such a proportion, but to spend them that nothing
mattered to me very strange circumstances. He got up without replying or an echo, and went through
the house in search of coins as pilgrims, and soon returned saying:
- It is much to anyone has failed to fulfill the taste but the person who
least wished, but the force has been content with their good work. The
old Carja gave me three coins with the requirement that I asked:
are three fold, the first of two weights, second of four and the third
of eight, and the latter should be saved is that many decades ago,
since gold is macuquino or cut.

And it taught me the double talk, that the reverse had the names of Ferdinand and Isabel. - The
old Carja - said my comrade - however dulzaina display for me, I
always bodes ill from the other day, some gypsy fortune-telling you know,
I predicted that my tastes I had to water down by old hands, but
in the matter now I do not know what wrong treatment can induce.

We parted on the evening and were, as always, above the bridge of
Santa Ana is time, and had not yet the fourth to twelve, when stumbled
and with the melancholy air came up to me and taking me by the hand,
cold as hail, pulled me to the inn, leaving me as confused as frightened.

His sighs deeply hurt me , and touching the threshold of the door I said: - What wonders can you
know me! retired to our room, and I more curious than ever, fearing
Arriscado spirit and adventure of my friend, I sat on the edge of
the bed and waited to begin, and thus began his reasoning: - Yesterday,
the evening show, picked up the fresh for the last bridge that carries
Hazel, and where it also served to give the path that leads to behind
the Alhambra.

Solo site, and time by the way, let me go on the wings of my wanderings, when a voice extremely
close to me, pulled me out of my dreams, saying: "Are you brave? Want
to make a fortune ?..." I turned my eyes and I found two steps rather
than a soldier of high stature, with crested helmet, with ruff and blue
dress, her face not unpleasant, but pale and ashen, and his voice,
though deep and sad , nothing unpleasant.

He had slung the sword of the shoulder, and hand supported the pike dark, but very bright iron.
Consider a brief space, and because it did not doubt my courage, I told
him everything was resolved and ordered follow him, went in after
him, and almost lost all suspicion for having gone off the pike on
which rested so that I would lead.

The arm was so heavy that almost was dragging, and essentially paid me the quality of invisible
since encountered a number of acquaintances and friends returning from his walk, none had qualms
about me. I close to the forest, the soldier told me: - When we reach the ruins of the towers
(and has no wrong) do the opposite of what I command you.

I promised well, and matching against the bulwark of the iron gate,
where it is said that Boabdil fled from the fury of the gentlemen
Abencerrajes by the death of their relatives.

He told me the mysterious touch to guide the spear, which kept me a lot of running, but when we arrived
at the isolated tower of the ramparts and ordered me to not call, then got up and gave her a
gentle boat against the wall , which is wonderfully wide open, I
hesitated not to follow the soldier for those obscurities.

In the room where we stand I only found huge jars ornaments nestled
in the earth, and sitting down and making me feel the soldier above
the tops iron that covered them, told me the charm and the most stupendous
miracle that can build the most wonderful imagination.

He told me that
since the conquest of Granada was imprisoned in that tower, guarding
the treasures grown that the Moors had been rescued and hidden from
the Christians, whose job it met embarrassing upset.

That he was allowed out of three in three years to seek their freedom, and that had been left
trances different view of some, to provide him with their rescue, but never managed to Cape and
the desired end, because of them, about their courage failed, others
fainted in the middle of the road and many did not meet the requirements
and conditions imposed on them, thus losing the reward of his work,
and said this raised the lid of the jar and pulled closer, as shown,
fist full of the finest golden sand, which was what lay in those glasses.

I then - said my friend - I assured him my good wishes to the soldier and offered the most extreme
delicacy and care, and that I might have his good will, without
the dangers could deter me.

The soldiers replied that it would be necessary to risk my person, and to begin to return to
work see him the next night (today), with three coins ordered, designed and folded. Pedíle the
key to this enigma, and he said that the money had to be taken rogadas
and a friend who is ignorant of his mysterious order locations, we
thought they were for my use, and that lately there were twice from
each other.

Well entrusted to my memory all those circumstances, I took leave
of the soldier, who to call when the time came he gave me contact
details of three claps, with three words that I recited an hour ago
and already I have forgotten my greatest fear. Separate last night
he had before my eyes the richest wealth, and in my hand to make
you happy and powerful, and repairing and crazy joy that possessed me.

Do not waste time, I tried the mysterious coins, who, seeing me, filled the put up points, and this
evening I flew to the ruined tower, and giving the three pats and
pronouncing the three words I forgot, was opened to the point the
wall, leaving to see the soldier, his face more sad and hurt. - Everything
we have lost - I said - I know that you've done all your good wishes
as you suggested and was in your hand, but while the coins are bent,
the greater is the evil belong to the conquerors of this land Reyes,
Fernando and Elizabeth, and for applications that must serve not forgive
the geniuses here or send the name or likeness of them both heroes.

Look at test, he said, to which was reduced as these vessels contained, and uncovered successively
but I was ash, and these polls, he said, full of precious stones,
which adehala finesse due to mine and your good will you intended,
all have returned from coal, and that was how he put it, with the
polls like those porcelain vases Adarves are kept in, and were found
in the chamber of the nymphs filled with amethyst, topaz and emeralds.



Why this is so I cannot tell, no more than I can explain other mysteries of creation, but I
know it is so.  I know they will come home more placider, more serener, and more settled-downer.
Why I have known a short tower to Slab City or Loontown act like a charm on my pardner, when
crossness wuz in his mean and snappishness wuz present with him.  I have known him to set off
with the mean of a lion and come back with the liniment of a lamb.  Curious, haint it?

And jest the prospect of a tower ahead is a great help to a woman in rulin' and keepin' a pardner
straight and right in his liniments and his acts.  Somehow jest the thought of a tower sort
a lifts him up in mind, and happifys him, and makes him easier to quell, and pardners must
be quelled at times, else there would be no livin' with 'em.  This is known to all wimmen companions
and and men too.  Great great is the mystery of pardners.

II.

ARDELLA TUTT AND HER MOTHER.

But to resoom and continue on.  I was a settin' one day, after it wuz all decided, and plans
laid on; I wuz a settin' by the fire a mendin' one of Josiah's socks.  I wuz a settin' there,
as soft and pliable in my temper as the woosted I wuz a darnin' 'em with, my Josiah at the
same time a peacefelly sawin' wood in the wood-house, when I heard a rap at the door and I
riz up and opened it, and there stood two perfect strangers, females.  I, with a perfect dignity
and grace (and with the sock still in my left hand) asked 'em to set down, and consequently
they sot.  Then ensued a slight pause durin' which my two gray eyes roamed over the females
before me.

The oldest one wuz very sharp in her face and had a pair of small round eyes that seemed when
they were sot onto you to sort a bore into you like two gimlets.  Her nose was very sharp and
defient, as if it wuz constantly sayin' to itself, "I am a nose to be looked up to, I am a
nose to be respected, and feared if necessary."  Her chin said the same thing, and her lips
which wuz very thin, and her elbow, which wuz very sharp.

Her dress was a stiff sort of a shinin' poplin, made tight acrost the chest and elboes.  And
her hat had some stiff feathers in it that stood up straight and sort a sharp lookin'.  She
had a long sharp breast-pin sort a stabbed in through the front of her stiff standin' collar,
and her knuckles sot out through her firm lisle thread gloves, her umberell wuz long and wound
up hard, to that extent I have never seen before nor sense.  She wuz, take it all in all, a
hard sight, and skairful.

The other one wuzn't no more like her in looks than a soft fat young cabbage head is like the
sharp bean pole that it grows up by the side on, in the same garden.  She wuz soft in her complexion,
her lips, her cheeks, her hands, and as I mistrusted at that first minute, and found out afterwards,
soft in her head too.  Her dress wuz a loose-wove parmetty, full in the waist and sort a drabbly
round the bottom.  Her hat wuz drab-colored felt with some loose ribbon bows a hangin' down
on it, and some soft ostridge tips. She had silk mits on and her hands wuz fat and kinder moist-lookin'.
Her eyes wuz very large and round, and blue, and looked sort o' dreamy and wanderin' and there
wuz a kind of a wrapped smile on her face all the time.  She had a roll of paper in her hand
and I didn't dislike her looks a mite.

Finally the oldest female opened her lips, some as a steel trap would open sudden and kinder
sharp, and sez she: "I am Miss Deacon Tutt, of Tuttville, and this is my second daughter Ardelia.
Cordelia is my oldest, and I have 4 younger than Ardelia."

I bowed real polite and said, "I wuz glad to make the acquaintance of the hull 7 on 'em." 
I can be very genteel when I set out, almost stylish.

"I s'pose," says she, "I am talkin' to Josiah Allen's wife?"

I gin her to understand that that wuz my name and my station, and she went on, and sez she:
"I have hearn on you through my husband's 2d cousin, Cephas Tutt."

"Cephas," sez she, "bein' wrote to by me on the subject of Ardelia, the same letter containin'
seven poems of hern, and on bein' asked to point out the quickest way to make her name and
fame known to the world at large, wrote back that he havin' always dealt in butter and lard,
wuzn't up to the market price in poetry, and that you would be a good one to go to for advice.
And so," sez she a pointin' to a bag she carried on her arm (a hard lookin' bag made of crash
with little bullets and knobs of embroidery on it), "and so we took this bag full of Ardelia's
poetry and come on the mornin' train, Cephas'es letter havin' reached us at nine o'clock last
night.  I am a woman of business."

The bag would hold about 4 quarts and it wuz full.  I looked at it and sithed.

"I see," sez she, "that you are sorry that we didn't bring more poetry with us.  But we thought
that this little batch would give you a idee of what a mind she has, what a glorious, soarin'
genus wuz in front of you, and we could bring more the next time we come."

I sithed agin, three times, but Miss Tutt didn't notice 'em a mite no more'n they'd been giggles
or titters.  She wouldn't have took no notice of them.  She wuz firm and decided doin' her
own errent, and not payin' no attention to anything, nor anybody else.

"Ardelia, read the poem you have got under your arm to Miss Allen! The bag wuz full of her
longer ones," sez she, "but I felt that I must let you hear her poem on spring.  It is a gem.
I felt it would be wrongin' you, not to give you that treat.  Read it Ardelia."

I see Ardelia wuz used to obeyin' her ma.  She opened the sheet to once, and begun.

Jest the minute Ardelia stopped readin' Miss Tatt says proudly: "There! haint that a remarkable
poem,?"

Sez I, calmly, "Yes it is a remarkable one."

"Did you ever hear anything like it?" says she, triumphly.

"No," sez I honestly, "I never did."

"Ardelia, read the poem on Little Ardelia Cordelia; give Miss Allen the treat of hearin' that
beautiful thing."

I sort a sithed low to myself; it wuz more of a groan than a common sithe, but Miss Tutt didn't
heed it, she kep' right on --

"I have always brought up my children to make other folks happy, all they can, and in rehearsin'
this lovely and remarkable poem, Ardelia will be not only makin' you perfectly happy, givin'
you a rich intellectual feast, that you can't often have, way out here in the country, fur
from Tuttville; but she will also be attendin' to the business that brought us here.  I have
always fetched my children up to combine joy and business; weld 'em together like brass and
steel.  Ardelia, begin!"

So Ardelia commenced agin'.  It wuz wrote on a big sheet of paper and a runnin' vine wuz a
runnin' all 'round the edge of the paper, made with a pen.

Jest as soon as Ardelia stopped rehearsin' the verses, Miss Tutt sez agin to me:

"Haint that a most remarkable poem?"

And agin I sez calmly, and trutbfully, "Yes, it is a very remarkable one!"

"And now," sez Miss Tutt, plungin' her hand in the bag, and drawin' out a sheet of paper, "to
convince you that Ardelia has always had this divine gift of poesy -- that it is not, all the
effect of culture and high education -- let me read to you a poem she wrote when she wuz only
a mere child," and Miss Tutt read:

                         "LINES ON A CAT

                       "WRITTEN BY ARDELIA TUTT,
    "At the age of fourteen years, two months and eight days.

                "Oh Cat! Sweet Tabby cat of mine;
              6 months of age has passed o'er thee,
                  And I would not resign, resign
                 The pleasure that I find in you.
                          Dear old cat!"

"Don't you think," sez Miss Tutt, "that this poem shows a fund of passion, a reserve power
of passion and constancy, remarkable in one so young?"

"Yes," sez I reasonably, "no doubt she liked the cat.  And," sez I, wantin' to say somethin'
pleasant and agreeable to her, "no doubt it was a likely cat."

"Oh the cat itself is of miner importance," sez Miss Tutt.  "We will fling the cat to the winds.
It's of my daughter I would speak.  I simply handled the cat to show the rare precocious intellect.
Oh! how it gushed out in the last line in the unconquerable burst of repressed passion -- `Dear
old cat!' Shakespeare might have wrote that line, do you not think so?"

"No doubt he might," sez I, calmly, "but he didn't."

I see she looked mad and I hastened to say: "He wuzn't aquainted with the cat."

She looked kinder mollyfied and continued:

"Ardelia dashes off things with a speed that would astonish a mere common writer.  Why she
dashed off thirty-nine verses once while she wuz waitin' for the dish water to bile, and sent
'em right off to the printer, without glancin' at 'em agin.'

"I dare say so," sez I, "I should judge so by the sound on 'em."

"Out of envy and jealousy, the rankest envy, and the shearest jealousy, them verses wuz sent
back with the infamous request that she should use 'em for curl papers.  But she sot right
down and wrote forty-eight verses on a `Cruel Request,' wrote 'em inside of eighteen minutes.
She throws off things, Ardelia does, in half an hour, that it would take other poets, weeks
and weeks to write."

"I persume so," sez I, "I dare persume to say, they never could write 'em."

"And now," sez Miss Tutt, "the question is, will you put Ardelia on the back of that horse
that poets ride to glory on?  Will you lift her onto the back of that horse, and do it at once?
I require nothin' hard of you," sez she, a borin' me through and through with her eyes.  "It
must be a joy to you, Josiah Allen's wife, a rare joy, to be the means of bringin' this rare
genius before the public.  I ask nothin' hard of you, I only ask that you demand, demand is
the right word, not ask; that would be grovelin' trucklin' folly, but demand that the public
that has long ignored my daugther Ardelia's claim to a seat amongst the immortal poets, demand
them, compel them to pause, to listen, and then seat her there, up, up on the highest, most
perpendiciler pinnacle of fame's pillow.  Will you do this?"

I sat in deep dejection and my rockin' chair, and knew not what to say -- and Miss Tutt went on:

"We demand more than fame, deathless, immortal fame for 'em.  We want money, wealth for 'em,
and want it at once!  We want it for extra household expenses, luxuries, clothing, jewelry,
charity, etc.  If we enrich the world with this rare genius, the world must enrich us with
its richest emmolients.  Will you see that we have it!  Will you at once do as I asked you
to?  Will you seat her immegately where I want her sot?

Sez I, considerin', "I can't get her up there alone, I haint strong enough."  Sez I, sort a
mekanikly, "I have got the rheumatez."

"So you scoff me do you?  I came to you to get bread, am I to get worse than a stun -- a scoff?"

"I haint gin you no scoff," sez I, a spunkin' up a little, "I haint thought on it.  I like
Ardelia and wish her well, but I can't do merikles, I can't compel the public to like things
if they don't."

Sez Miss Tutt, "You are jealous of her, you hate her."

"No, I don't," sez I, "I haint jealous of her, and I like her looks first-rate.  I love a pretty
young girl," sez I candidly, "jest as I love a fresh posy with the dew still on it, a dainty
rose-bud with the sweet fragrance layin' on its half-folded heart. I love 'em," sez I, a beginnin'
to eppisode a little unbeknown to me, "I love 'em jest as I love the soft unbroken silence
of the early spring mornin', the sun all palely tinted with rose and blue, and the earth alayin'
calm and unwoke-up, fresh and fair.  I love such a mornin' and such a life, for itself and
for the unwritten prophecis in it.  And when I see genius in such a sweet, young life, why
it makes me feel as it duz to see through all the tender prophetic beauty of the mornin' skies,
a big white dove a soarin' up through the blue heavens."

Sez Miss Tutt, "You see that in Ardelia, but you wont own it, you know you do."

"No!" sez I, "I would love to tell you that I see it in Ardelia; I would honest, but I can't
look into them mornin' skies and say I see a white dove there, when I don't see nothin' more
than a plump pullet, a jumpin' down from the fence or a pickin' round calmly in the back door-yard.
Jest as likely the hen is, as the white dove, jest as honerable, but you mustn't confound the
two together."

"A hen," sez Miss Tutt bitterly.  "To confound my Ardelia with a hen!  And I don't think there
wuz ever a more ironieler `hen' than that wuz, or a scornfuller one."

"Why," sez I reasonably.  "Hens are necessary and useful in any position, both walkin' and
settin', and layin'.  You can't get'em in any position hardly, but what they are useful and
respectable, only jest flyin'.  Hens can't fly.  Their wings haint shaped for it.  They look
some like a dove's wings on the outside, the same feathers, the same way of stretchin' 'em
out.  But there is sunthin lackin' in 'em, some heaven-given capacity for soarin' an for flight
that the hens don't have.  And it makes trouble, sights and sights of trouble when hens try
to fly, try to, and can't!

"At the same time it is hard for a dove to settle down in a back yard and stay there, hard
and tegus.  She can and duz sometimes, but never till after her wings have been clipped in
some way. Poor little dove!  I am always sorry for 'em to see 'em a walkin' round there, a
wantin' to fly -- a not forgettin' how it seemed to have their wings soarin' up through the
clear sky, and the rush of the pure liquid windwaves a sweepin' aginst 'em, as they riz up,
up, in freedom, and happiness, and glory.  Poor little creeters.

"Yes, but doves can, if you clip their wings, settle down and walk, but hens CAN'T fly, not
for any length of time they can't. No amount of stimulatin' poultices applied to the ends of
their tail feathers and wings can ever make 'em fly.  They can't; it haint their nater.  They
can make nests, and fill them with pretty downy chicks, they can be happy and beautiful in
life and mean; they can spend their lives in jest as honerable and worthy a way as if they
wuz a flyin' round, and make a good honerable appearance from day to day, till they begin to
flop their wings, and fly -- then their mean is not beautiful and inspirin'; no, it is fur
from it.  It is tuff to see 'em, tuff to see the floppin', tuff to see their vain efforts to
soar through the air, tuff to see 'em fall percepitously down onto the ground agin.  For they
must come there in the end; they are morally certain to.

"Now Ardelia is a sweet pretty lookin' girl, she can set down in a cushioned arm-chair by a
happy fireside, with pretty baby faces a clusterin' around her and some man's face like the
sun a reflectin' back the light of her happy heart.  But she can't sit up on the pinnacle of
fame's pillow.  I don't believe she can ever get up there, I don't.  Honestly speakin', I don't."

"Envy!" sez Miss Tutt, "glarin', shameless envy!  You don't want Ardelia to rise!  You don't
want her to mount that horse I spoke of; you don't want to own that you see genius in her.
But you do, Josiah Allen's wife, you know you do -- "

"No," sez I, "I don't see it.  I see the sweetness of pretty girlhood, the beauty and charm
of openin' life, but I don't see nothin' else, I don't, honest.  I don't believe she has got
genius," sez I, "seein' you put the question straight to me and depend a answer; seein' her
future career depends on her choice now, I must tell you that I believe she would succeed better
in the millionary trade or the mantilly maker's than she will in tryin' to mount the horse
you speak on.

"Why," sez I, candidly, "some folks can't get up on that horse, their legs haint strong enough.
And if they do manage to get on, it throws 'em, and they lay under the heels for life.  I don't
want to see Ardelia there, I don't want to see her maimed and lamed and stunted so early in
the mornin' of life, by a kick from that animal, for she can't ride it," sez I, "honestly she
can't.

"There is nothin' so useless in life, and so sort a wearin' as to be a lookin' for sunthin'
that haint there.  And when you pretend it is there when it haint, you are addin' iniquity
to uselessness; so if you'll take my advice, the advice of a wellwisher, you will stop lookin',
for I tell you plain that it haint there."

Sez Miss Tutt, "Josiah Allen's wife, you have for reasens best known to your conscience baulked
my hopes of a speedy immortality. You have willfully tried to break down my hopes of an immense,
immediate income to flow out of them poems for luxuries, jewelry, charity, etc.  But I can
at least claim this at your hands, I demand honesty.  Tell me honestly what you yourself think
of them poems."

Sez I (gettin' up sort a quick and goin' into the buttery, and bringin' out a little basket),
"Here are some beautiful sweet apples, won't you have one?"

"Apples, at such a time as this;" sez Miss Tutt

"When the slumberin' world trembles before the advancin' tread of a new poet -- When the heavens
are listenin' intently to ketch the whispers of an Ardelia's fate -- Sweet apples! in such
a time as this!" sez she.  But she took two.

"I demand the truth," sez she.  "And you are a base, trucklin' coward, if you give it not."

Sez I, tryin' to carry off the subject and the apples into the buttery; "Poetry ort to have
pains took with it."

"Jealousy!" sez Miss Tutt.  "Jealousy might well whisper this. Envy, rank envy might breathe
the suspicion that Ardelia haint been took pains with.  But I can see through it," sez she.
"I can see through it."

"Well," sez I, wore out, "if they belonged to me, and if she wuz my girl, I would throw the
verses into the fire, and set her to a trade."

She stood for a minute and bored me through and through with them eyes.  Why it seemed as if
there wuz two holes clear through my very spirit, and sole; she partly lifted that fearful
lookin' umberell as if to pierce me through and through; it wuz a fearful seen.

At last she turned, and flung the apple she wuz a holdin' onto the floor at my feet -- and
sez she, "I scorn 'em, and you too."  And she kinder stomped her feet and sez, "I fling off
the dust I have gethered here, at your feet."

Now my floor wuz clean and looked like yeller glass, almost, it wuz so shinin' and spotless,
and I resented the idee of her sayin' that she collected dust off from it.  But I didn't say
nothin' back.  She had the bag of poetry on her arm, and I didn't feel like addin' any more
to her troubles.

But Ardelia, after her mother had swept out ahead, turned round and held out her hand, and
smiled a sweet but ruther of a despondent and sorrowful smile, and I kissed her warmly.  I
like Ardelia.  And what I said, I said for her good, and she knew it. I like Ardelia.

Well, Miss Tutt and Ardelia went from our house to Eben Pixley's. They are distant relatives
of hern, and live about 3 quarters of a mile from us.  The Pixleys think everything of Ardelia
but they can't bear her mother.  There has been difficulties in the family.

But Ardelia stayed there mor'n two weeks right along.  She haint very happy to home I believe.
And before she went back home it wuz arranged that she should teach the winter's school and
board to Miss Pixley's.  But Miss Pixley wuz took sick with the tyfus before she had been there
two weeks -- and, for all the world, if the deestrict didn't want us to board her.  Josiah
hadn't much to do, so he could carry her back and forth in stormy weather, and it wuz her wish
to come.  And it wuz Josiah's wish too, for the pay wuz good, and the work light -- for him.
And so I consented after a parlay.

But I didn't regret it.  She is a good little creeter and no more like her mother than a feather
bed is like a darnin' needle.  I like Ardelia: so does Josiah.

III.

THE CHERITY OF THE JONESVILLIANS.

We have been havin' a pound party here in Jonesville.  There wuz a lot of children left without
any father or mother, nobody only an old grandma to take care of 'em, and she wuz half bent
with the rheumatiz, and had a swelled neck, and lumbago and fits.

They lived in an old tumble-down house jest outside of Jonesville. The father wuz, I couldn't
deny, a shiftless sort of a chap, good-natured, always ready to obleege a neighbor, but he
hadn'nt no faculty.  And I don't know, come to think of it, as anybody is any more to blame
if they are born without a faculty, than if they are born with only one eye.  Faculty is one
of the things that you can't buy.

He loved to hunt.  That is, he loved to hunt some kinds of things. He never loved to hunt stiddy,
hard work, and foller on the trail of it till he evertook success and captured it.  No, he
druther hunt after catamounts and painters, in woods where catamounts haint mounted, and painters
haint painted sence he wuz born.

He generally killed nothin' bigger than red squirrels and chipmunks. The biggest game he ever
brought down wuz himself.  He shot himself one cold day in the fall of the year.  He wuz gettin'
over a brush fence, they s'posed the gun hit against somethin' and went off, for they found
him a layin' dead at the bottom of the fence.

I always s'posed that the shock of his death comin' so awful sudden unto her, killed his wife.
She had been sick for a long spell, she had consumption and dropsy, and so forth, and so forth,
for a long time, and after he wuz brought in dead, she didn't live a week.  She thought her
eyes of him, for no earthly reason as I could ever see.  How strange, how strange a dispensation
of Providence it duz seem, that some women love some men, and vicy versey and the same.

But she did jest about worship him, and she died whisperin' his name, and reachin' out her
hands as if she see him jest ahead of her.  And I told Josiah I didn't know but she did.  I
shouldn't wonder a mite if she did see him, for there is only the veil of mystery between us
and the other world at any time, and she had got so nigh to it, that I s'pose it got so thin
that she could see through it.

Just as you can see through the blue haze that lays before our forest in Injun summer.  Come
nigh up to it and you can see the silvery trunks of the maples and the red sumac leaves, and
the bright evergreens, and the forms of the happy hunters a passin' along under the glint of
the sunbeams and the soft shadows.

They died in Injun summer.  I made a wreath myself of the bright-colored leaves to lay on their
coffins.  Dead leaves, dead to all use and purpose here, and yet with the bright mysterious
glow upon them that put me in mind of some immortal destiny and blossoming beyond our poor
dim vision.  Jane Smedley wuz a good woman, and so wuz Jim, good but shiftless.

But I made the same wreath for her and Jim, and the strange mellow light lay on both of 'em,
makin' me think in spite of myself of some happy sunrisin' that haply may dawn on some future
huntin' ground, where poor Jim Smedley even, may strike the trail of success and happiness,
hid now from the sight of Samantha, hid from Josiah.

Wall, they died within a week's time of each other, and left nine children, the oldest one
of 'em not quite fifteen.  She, the oldest one, wuz a good girl, only she had the rickets so
that when she walked, she seemed to walk off all over the house backwards, and sideways, and
every way, but when she sot down, she wuz a good stiddy girl, and faithful; she took after
her mother, and her mother took after her grandmother, so there wuz three takin' after each
other, one right after the other.

Jane wuz a good, faithful, hard-workin' creeter when she wuz well, brought up her children
good as she could, learnt 'em the catechism, and took in all kinds of work to earn a little
somethin' towards gettin' a home for 'em; she and her mother both did, her mother lived with
'em, and wuz a smart old woman, too, for one that wuz pretty nigh ninety.  And she wuzn't worrysome
much, only about one thing  --  she wanted a home, wanted a home dretfully.  Some wimmen are
so; she had moved round so much, from one poor old place to another, that she sort o' hankered
after bein' settled down into a stiddy home.

Wall, there wuz eight children younger than Marvilla, that wuz the oldest young girl's name.
Eight of 'em, countin' each pair of twins as two, as I s'pose they ort.  The Town buried the
father and mother, which wuz likely and clever in it, but after that it wouldn't give only
jest so much a week, which wuz very little, because it said, Town did, that they could go to
the poor-house, they could be supported easier there.

I don't know as the Town could really be blamed for sayin' it, and yet it seemed kinder mean
in it, the Town wuz so big, and the children, most of 'em, wuz so little.

But any way, it wuz jest sot on it, and there wuz the end of it, for you might jest as well
dispute the wind as to dispute the Town when it gets sot.

Wall, the old grandma said she would die in the streets before she would go to the poor-house.
She had come from a good family in the first place,

They say she run away and left a good home and got married, and did dretful poor in the married
state.  He waz shiftless and didn't have nothin' and didn't lay up any.  And she didn't keep
any of her old possessions only jest her pride.  She kept that, or enough of it to say that
she would die on the road before she would go to the poor-house.  And once I see her cry she
wanted a home so bad.

And lots of folks blamed her for it, blamed the old woman awfully. They said pride wuz so wicked.
Wimmen who would run like deers if company came when they wuzn't dressed up slick, they would
say the minute they got back into the room, all out of breath with hurryin' into their best
clothes, they'd say a pantin' "That old woman ought to be made to go to the poorhouse, to take
the pride out of her, pride wuz so awfully, dretfully wicked, and it wuz a shame that she wuz
so ongrateful as to want a home of her own."  And then they would set down and rest.

Wall, the family wuz in a sufferin' state.  The Town allowed 'em one dollar a week.  But how
wuz ten human beings to live on a dollar a week.  The children worked every chance they got,
but they couldn't earn enough to keep 'em in shoes, let alone other clothin' and vittles. 
And the old house wuz too cold for 'em to stay in durin' the cold weather, it wuz for Grandma
Smedley, anyway, if the children could stand it she couldn't.  And what wuz to be done.  A
cold winter wuz a cumin' on, and it wouldn't delay a minute because Jim Smedley had got shot,
and his wife had follered him, into, let us hope, a happier huntin' ground than he had ever
found in earthly forests.

Wall, I proposed to have a pound party for 'em.  I said they might have it to our house if
they wanted it, but if they thought they wanted it in a more central place (our house wuz quite
a little to one side), why we could have it to the schoolhouse.

I proposed to Josiah the first one.  He wuz a settin' by the fire relapsed into silence.  It
wuz a cold night outside, but the red curtains wuz down at our sitting-room winders, shettin'
out the cold drizzlin' storm of hail and snow that wuz a deseendin' onto the earth.  The fire
burned up warm and bright, and we sot there in our comfortable home, with the teakettle singin'
on the stove, and the tea-table set out cosy and cheerful, for Josiah had been away and I had
waited supper for him.

As I sot there waitin' for the tea-kettle to bile (and when I say bile, I mean bile, I don't,
mean simmer) the thought of the Smedleys would come in.  The warm red curtains would keep the
storm out, but they couldn't keep the thought of the children, and the feeble old grandmother
out of the room.  They come right in, through the curtains, and the firelight, and everything,
and sot right down by me and hanted me.

And what curious creeters thoughts be, haint they? and oncertain, too.  You may make all your
plans to get away from 'em.  You may shet up your doors and winders, and set with a veil on
and an umbrell up - but good land! how easy they jest ontackle the doors and windows, with
no sounds of ontacklin' and come right in by you.

First you know there they be right by the side of you, under your umbrell, under your veil,
under your spectacles, a lookin' right down into your soul, and a hantin' you.

And then agin, when you expect to be hanted by 'em, lay out to, why, they'll jest stand off
somewhere else, and don't come nigh you.  Don't want to.  Oncertain creeters, thoughts be,
and curious, curious where they come from, and how.

Why, I got to thinkin' about it the other day, and I got lost, some like children settin' on
a log over a creek a ridin'; there they be, and there the log is, but they don't seem to be
there, they seem to be a floatin' down the water.

And there I wuz, a settin' in my rockin' chair, and I seemed to be a floatin' down deep water,
very deep.  A thinkin' and a wonderin'. A thinkin' how all through the ages what secrets God
had told to man when the time had come, and the reverent soul below was ready to hear the low
words whispered to his soul, and a wonderin' what strange revelation God held now, ready to
reveal when the soul below had fitted itself to hear, and comprehend it.

Ah! such mysteries as He will reveal to us if we will listen.  If we wait for God's voice.
If we did not heed so much the confusing clamor of the world's voices about us.  Emulation,
envy, anger, strife, jealousy; if we turned our heads away from these discords, and in the
silence which is God's temple, listened, listened, -- who knows the secrets He would make known
to us?

Secrets of the day, secrets of the night, the sunshine, the lightning, the storm.  The white
glow of that wonderful light that is not like the glow of the sun or of the moon, but yet lighteth
the world.  That strange light that has a soul - that reads our thoughts, translates our wishes,
overleaps distance, carrying our whispered words after holding our thoughts for ages, and then
unfoldin' 'em at will.  What other wondrous mysteries lie concealed, wrapped around by that
soft pure flame, mysteries that shall lie hidden until some inspired eye shall be waiting,
looking upward at the moment when God's hand shall draw back the shining veil for an instant,
and let him read the glowing secret.

Secrets of language! shall some simple power, some symbol be revealed, and the nations speak
together?

Secrets of song! shall some serene, harmonious soul catch the note to celestial melodies?

Secrets of sight! shall the eyes too dim now, see the faces of the silent throngs that surround
them, "the great cloud of witnesses"?

Secrets of the green pathways that lead up through the blue silent fields of space - shall
we float from star to star?

Secrets of holiness! shall earthly faces wear the pure light of the immortals?

But oh! who shall be the happy soul that shall be listening when the time has fully come and
He shall reveal His great secret?  The happy soul listening so intently that it shall catch
the low, clear whisper.

Listening, maybe, through the sweet twilight shadows for the wonderful secret, while the silver
shallop of the moon is becalmed over the high northern mountains, as if a fleet of heavenly
guests had floated down through the clear ocean waves of the sky to listen too - to hear the
wonderful heavenly secret revealed to man - and a clear star looks out over the glowing rose
of the western heavens, looking down like God's eye, searching his soul, searching if it be
worthy of the great trust.

Maybe it will be in the fresh dawning of the day, that the great secret will grow bright and
clear and luminous, as the dawning of the light.

Maybe it will be in the midst of the storm - a mighty voice borne along by the breath of the
wind and the thunder, clamoring and demanding the hearer to listen.

Oh! if we were only good enough, only pure enough, what might not our rapt vision discern?

But we know not where or when the time shall be fully come, but who, who, shall be the happy
soul that shall, at the time, be listening?

Oh! how deep, how strange the waters wuz, and how I floated away on 'em, and how I didn't.
For there I wuz a settin in my own rockin' chair and there opposite me sot my own Josiah a
whittlin', for the "World" hadn't come, and he wuz restless and ill at ease, and time hung
heavy on his hands.

There I sot the same Samantha - and the thought of the Smedleys, the same old Smedleys, was
a hantin' of me, the same old hant, and I says to my Josiah, says I: "Josiah, I can't help
thinkin' about the Smedleys," says I.  "What do you think about havin' a pound party for 'em,
and will you take holt, and do your part?"

"Good land, Samantha!  Are you crazy?  Crazy as a loon?  What under the sun do you want to
pound the Smedleys for?  I should think they had trouble enough without poundin' 'em.  Why,"
says he, "the old woman couldn't stand any poundin' at all, without killin' her right out and
out, and the childern haint over tough any of 'em.  Why, what has got into you?  I never knew
you to propose anything of that wicked kind before.  I sha'n't have anything to do with it.
If you want 'em pounded you must get your own club and do your own poundin'."

Says I, "I don't mean poundin' 'em with a club, but let folks buy a pound of different things
to eat and drink and carry it to 'em, and we can try and raise a little money to get a warmer
horse for 'em to stay in the coldest of the weather."

"Oh!" says he, with a relieved look.  "That's a different thing. I am willin' to do that. 
I don't know about givin' 'em any money towards gettin' 'em a home, but I'll carry 'em a pound
of crackers or a pound of flour, and help it along all I can."

Josiah is a clever creeter (though close), and he never made no more objections towards havin' it.

Wall, the next day I put on my shawl and hood (a new brown hood knit out of zephyr worsted,
very nice, a present from our daughter Maggie, our son Thomas Jefferson's wife), and sallied
out to see what the neighbor's thought about it.

The first woman I called on wuz Miss Beazley, a new neighbor who had just moved into the neighborhood.
They are rich as they can be, and I expected at least to get a pound of tea out of her.

She said it wuz a worthy object, and she would love to help it along, but they had so many
expenses of their own to grapple with, that she didn't see her way clear to promise to do anything.
She said the girls had got to have some new velvet suits, and some sealskin sacques this winter,
and they had got to new furnish the parlors, and send their oldest boy to college, and the
girls wanted to have some diamond lockets, and ought to have 'em but she didn't know whether
they could manage to get them or not, if they did, they had got to scrimp along every way they
could.  And then they wuz goin' to have company from a distance, and had got to get another
girl to wait on 'em.  And though she wished the poor well, she felt that she could not  dare
to promise a cent to 'em.  She wished the Smedley family well -- dretful well -- and hoped
I would get lots of things for 'em.  But she didn't really feel as if it would be safe for
her to promise'em a pound of anything, though mebby she might, by a great effort, raise a pound
of flour for 'em, or meal.

Says I dryly (dry as meal ever wuz in its dryest times), "I wouldn't give too much.  Though,"
says I, "A pound of flour would go a good ways if it is used right."  And I thought to myself
that she had better keep it to make a paste to smooth over things.

Wall, I went from that to Miss Jacob Hess'es, and Miss Jacob Hess wouldn't give anything because
the old lady wuz disagreeable, old Grandma Smedley, and I said to Miss Jacob Hess that if the
Lord didn't send His rain and dew onto anybody only the perfectly agreeable, I guessed there
would be pretty dry times.  It wuz my opinion there would be considerable of a drouth.

There wuz a woman there a visitin' Miss Hess -- she wuz a stranger to me and I didn't ask her
for anything, but she spoke up of her own accord and said she would give, and give liberal,
only she wuz hampered.  She didn't say why, or who, or when, but she only sez this that "she
wuz hampered," and I don't know to this day what her hamper wuz, or who hampered her.

And then I went to Ebin Garven'ses, and Miss Ebin Garven wouldn't help any because she said
"Joe Smedley had been right down lazy, and she couldn't call him anything else."

"But," says I, "Joe is dead, and why should his children starve because their pa wasn't over
and above smart when he wuz alive?" But she wouldn't give.

Wall, Miss Whymper said she didn't approve of the manner of giving.  Her face wuz all drawed
down into a curious sort of a long expression that she called religus and I called somethin'
that begins with "h-y-p-o" -- and I don't mean hypoey, either.

No, she couldn't give, she said, because she always made a practise of not lettin' her right
hand know what her left hand give.

And I said, for I wuz kinder took aback, and didn't think, I said to her, a glancin' at her
hands which wuz crossed in front of her, that I didn't see how she managed it, unless she give
when her right hand was asleep.

And she said she always gave secret.

And I said, "So I have always s'posed -- very secret."

I s'pose my tone was some sarcastic, for she says, "Don't the Scripter command us to do so?"

Says I firmly, "I don't believe the Scripter means to have us stand round talkin' Bible, and
let the Smedleys starve," says I. "I s'pose it means not to boast of our good deeds."

Says she, "I believe in takin' the Scripter literal, and if I can't git my stuff there entirely
unbeknown to my right hand I sha'n't give."

"Wall," says I, gettin' up and movin' towards the door, "you must do as you're a mind to with
fear and tremblin'."

I said it pretty impressive, for I thought I would let her see I could quote Scripter as well
as she could, if I sot out.

But good land! I knew it wuz a excuse.  I knew she wouldn't give nothin' not if her right hand
had the num palsy, and you could stick a pin into it -- no, she wouldn't give, not if her right
hand was cut off and throwed away.

Wall, Miss Bombus, old Dr. Bombus'es widow, wouldn't give -- and for all the world -- I went
right there from Miss Whymper'ses. Miss Bombus wouldn't give because I didn't put the names
in the Jonesville Augur or Gimlet, for she said, "Let your good deeds so shine."

"Why," says I, "Miss Whymper wouldn't give because she wanted to give secreter, and you won't
give because you want to give publicker, and you both quote Scripter, but it don't seem to
help the Smedleys much."

She said that probably Miss Whymper was wrestin' the Scripter to her own destruction."

"Wall," says I, "while you and Miss Whymper are a wrestin' the Scripter, what will become of
the Smedleys?  It don't seem right to let them 'freeze to death, and starve to death, while
we are a debatin' on the ways of Providence."

But she didn't tell, and she wouldn't give.

A woman wuz there a visitin', Miss Bombus'es aunt, I think, and she spoke up and said that
she fully approved of her niece Bombus'es decision.  And she said, "As for herself, she never
give to any subject that she hadn't thoroughly canvassed."

Says I, "There they all are in that little hut, you can canvass them at any time.  Though,"
says I, thoughtfully, "Marvilla might give you some trouble."  And she asked why.

And I told her she had the rickets so she couldn't stand still to be canvassed, but she could
probably follow her up and canvass her, if she tried hard enough.  And says I, "There is old
Grandma Smedley, over eighty, and five children under eight, you can canvass them easy."

Says she, "The Bible says, `Search the Sperits.'"

And I was so wore out a seein' how place after place, for three times a runnin the Bible was
lifted up and held as a shield before stingy creeters, to ward off the criticism of the world
and their own souls, that I says to myself -- loud enough so they could hear me, mebbe, "Why
is it that when anybody wants to do a mean, ungenerous act, they will try to quote a verse
of Scripter to uphold 'em, jest as a wolf will pull a lock of pure white wool over his wolfish
foretop, and try to look innocent and sheepish."

I don't care if they did hear me, I wuz on the step mostly when I thought it, pretty loud.

Wall, from Miss Bombus'es I went to Miss Petingill's.

Miss Petingill is a awful high-headed creeter.  She come to the door herself and she said,
I must excuse her for answerin' the door herself.  (I never heard the door say anything and
don't believe she did, it was jest one of her ways.)  But she said I must excuse her as her
girl wuz busy at the time.

She never mistrusted that I knew her hired girl had left, and she wuz doin' her work herself.
She had ketched off her apron I knew, as she come through the hall, for I see it a layin' behind
the door, all covered with flour.  And after she had took me into the parlor, and we had set
down, she discovered some spots of flour on her dress, and she said she "had been pastin' some
flowers into a scrap book to pass away the time."  But I knew she had been bakin' for she looked
tired, tired to death almost, and it wuz her bakin' day.  But she would sooner have had her
head took right off than to own up that she had been doin' housework -- why, they say that
once when she wuz doin' her work herself, and was ketched lookin' awful, by a strange minister,
that she passed herself off' for a hired girl and said, "Miss Petingill wasn't to home, and
when pressed hard she said she hadn't "the least idee where Miss Petingill wuz."

Jest think on 't once -- and there she wuz herself.  The idee!

Wall, the minute I sot down before I begun my business or anything, Miss Petingill took me
to do about puttin' in Miss Bibbins President of our Missionary Society for the Relief of Indignent
Heathens.

The Bibbins'es are good, very good, but poor.

Says Miss Petingill: "It seems to me as if there might be some other woman put in, that would
have had more influence on the Church."

Says I, "Haint Miss Bibbins a good Christian sister, and a great worker?"

"Why yes, she wuz good, good in her place.  But," she said, "the Petingills hadn't never associated
with the Bibbins'es."

And I asked her if she s'posed that would make any difference with the heathen;  if the heathen
would be apt to think less of Miss Bibbins because she hadn't associated with the Petingills?

And she said, she didn't s'pose "the heathens would ever know it; it might make some difference
to 'em if they did," she thought, "for it couldn't be denied," she said, "that Miss Bibbins
did not move in the first circles of Jonesville."

It had been my doin's a puttin' Miss Bibbins in and I took it right to home, she meant to have
me, and I asked her if she thought the Lord would condemn Miss Bibbins on the last day, because
she hadn't moved in the first circles of Jonesville?

And Miss Petingill tosted her head a little, but had to own up, that she thought "He wouldn't."

"Wall, then," sez I, "do you s'pose the Lord has any objections to her working for Him now?"

"Why no, I don't know as the Lord would object."

"Wall," sez I, "we call this work the Lord's work, and if He is satisfied with Miss Bibbins,
we ort to be."

But she kinder nestled round, and I see she wuzn't satisfied, but I couldn't stop to argue,
and I tackled her then and there about the Smedleys.  I asked her to give a pound, or pounds,
as she felt disposed.

But she answered me firmly that she could't give one cent to the Smedleys, she wuz principled
against it.

And I asked her, "Why?"

And she said, because the old lady wuz proud and wanted a home, and she thought that pride
wuz so wicked, that it ort to be put down.

Wall, Miss Huff, Miss Cephas Huff, wouldn't give anything because one of the little Smedleys
had lied to her.  She wouldn't encourage lyin'.

And I told her I didn't believe she would be half so apt to reform him on an empty stomach,
as after he wuz fed up.  But she wouldn't yield.

Wall, Miss Daggett said she would give, and give abundant, only she didn't consider it a worthy
object.

But it wuzn't nothin' only a excuse, for the object has never been found yet that she thought
wuz a worthy one.  Why, she wouldn't give a cent towards painting the Methodist steeple, and
if that haint a high and worthy object, I don't know what is.  Why, our steeple is over seventy
feet from the ground.  But she wouldn't help us a mite -- not a single cent.

Take such folks as them and the object never suits 'em.  They won't come right out and tell
the truth that they are too stingy and mean to give away a cent, but they will always put the
excuse onto the object -- the object don't suit 'em. 

Where is the King so desired? Why not come?

Bring
him, bring him here, then, to the point ... - Well, there ved the
case - said Abu-el-casino. - Speech - Sultan said.

And the captain began his story this way: IV - "With the signs that
gave the El-Baici crazy, and aided by the kindness of character that
distinguishes me - said Abu-el-friendly Casín - I managed to take
in the immediate neighborhood to the Fortress of the madman certain
news recommended.

I knew his name was Ben-Farding, and dwelt in the depths of these
underground palaces are located in the Citadel, which once were temples
where they worshiped the idols of the kings Rumi.

Ben-Farding is possessed of madness stranger than you can imagine.

Think your specific gravity is such that gradually and by dint of years is piercing the earth, spreading
out as it is, and that this day will come that will cross the globe,
finding its outlet by the opposite antipodes.

In the long episodes that have such a long trip, you will learn all the secrets of nature, or,
rather, the will or conquering surprising, then, or she will have to
suspend their action, or the hidden elaboratorios of her womb should
have successively in enduring and visiting scholar as curious as persevering
observer.

After leaving the hole opposite Ben-Farding, will as wise as Sulayman, and as powerful as Nimrod.
be obeyed of good and evil geniuses, send in animals and birds; the Simorgue come to take your
orders and will prevail over all the earth. Ben-Farding believed to be in the depths of the underground,
where it is now, not having fallen there own or others' feet, but
because the severity of his body has been drilled and land to the
place where you are.

In this crazy respectable went downstairs to see to make him understand the orders of my master,
and promptly through mansions so dark, I turn three hundred axes, and not find them so near,
I sent set fire to the touch and dresses fifty captives, and throw in front of me to light the way.
Ben-Farding not surprised at my untimely visit, and, on the contrary,
told me point by point to it: Zahorí must also, in my mind.

But the transport here has been impossible. To my friendly overtures was so impassive that
I became convinced that enters your folly not to fear death, or believed
intangible as the wind, or invulnerable as if made of iron.

I have used my skill known, and had applied for my medications infallible desist from their strange
stubbornness, not to suspect that our Ben-Farding could not resist
my healing method, or rather, my means of transport .. . - "So you
do not want to come? - cried like a lion Sultan ... - There is just
the case - said the friendly African captain of the guard -.

Failure to object to appear before the noble presence Prince of the
believers, but says he can not separate at will for a moment of very
slow task that is in the sweet calm labored seven centuries ago. thousandth
atom A more subtle point to stop for drilling, turning away voluntarily
from the site it occupies, it was an unpardonable.

The trap door is make his first duty, but consents to be transported here in grace of the generous,
the never defeated, the wise, powerful, beloved Alahí, winner, Prince
of Believers, my lord, if the bed itself in as it awaits its future greatness
is carried on the shoulders hundred twenty-five ... - It is a giant
- said the Sultan - heavy as a mountain, I understand the foundation
that has in his fantasy to believe that land can be sinking slowly
... - Well, that's the case - said the friendly African captain of
the guard - it is a weevil that Ben-Farding on, which does not three
feet, and except for his head, which is fat like Al-Cuba of the mosque,
and his feet are like two many long and broad leaves of banana, otherwise
believe that their gravity is not up to twenty adarmes . - Well -
said the Sultan -, know, kind Abu-el-Casino, which I'm falling in
love with this precious Ben-Farding, and have him do enough for me
and before my eyes.

Take a sleeve of fifty-five and over seventy porters aljameles of
masonry bearing walls to the building in Fajalans now, and I
bring it here to point at the moment, directing yourself maneuvering.
- Then there's the case - again replicate Abu-el-Casín - and is that
Ben-Farding requires that those aljameles and porters are to be precisely,
only the illustrious dignitaries, tycoons, high character, profound
statesman, divine orators and wise counselors of the couch. - I tell
you, Abu-el-friendly Casín - joyfully exclaimed the Sultan - who this
madman is the most deliciously capricious imagination can devise more
humorous, I declare on his benefactor, and I hope him the happy outcome
of this adventure.

But what do those nasty critters from my couch that advice and have been slow
and that have not rushed for portage on his back my good Ben-Farding,
 the liberator of my wife , which has to be my first friend if
their works relate to the strangeness of his fantasies funny? - Well, that's
the case - said Abu-el-Casín - it is that these respectable people do not
fall in the income the manager in implementing the mandates of the
 Prince of the believers and the funny-wise directions of the trap
habitation of the Alcazaba is your servant, the friendly Abu-el-casino,
captain of the guard in Africa. - Hello , troop! - he said, turning
to those venerable men.

And they pretended that until there
habíanse unwary, which if not so interesting overheard dialogue,
without knowing how they met up, as if the had moved a unique and
powerful spring.

What kindness! was only filling in his velvet
cushion that Vizier, lips very speedy, he explained in his eloquent
peroration with extremely noble independence which is the difference
of a robbery of a conspiracy.

By noting the friendly Abu-el- Casín non-perpendicularity of the legs of the Vizier, was to get
to him, saying with a suppressed voice, that resembled the hissing of a serpent: "He has raised
and ennobled roots Mulesaif wise ..."

When this discrete character, understanding hailstorm approaching him, he answered very sweet accent:
- Yes, I am ready, friendly Abu-el-Casín, but I have kept stuffed
in my position, being more ready to give my person suddenly; is ie,
more quickly, a more appropriate setting to bring on the backs that
Ben-Farding discreet, which will be the best friend of our Sultan.
- Allah save them both off!

For now - seriously answered the friendly captain African guard -
incorporaos and id, if necessary, and will advise you on how and when you
have to take a stand on all fours with your worthy brothers. Meanwhile,
the same Abu-el-Casín boasted and review all those respectable Wazir, ministers,
Kadis, speakers, writers and poets who composed wise couch, and found
that, coupled with carefully one by one, and taking their names to
avoid confusion, there were only one hundred and twelve wise men together.

The Sultan, alarmed at this disappointment,
which left maimed the number of porters and fixed by the capricious
aljameles Ben-Farding for carrying it, went to Abu-el-casino and said:
- Here, kind captain African guard, how they trances and cases that
miss the wisdom.

What we will use trace to carry discrete compliance
requirements because of my good friend Ben-Farding? The friendly Abu-el-Casín
leaned his forehead and he replied, smiling: - careless as to that point,
Prince of the believers, because while these good friends the address
to the Alcazaba, steep for now on its two hind legs, I personally will
pass by the school and the academy I will give a tour of libraries
and Bek-Faral Melij Aben, and gather the thirteen men who we need
to complete the amazing shot that Ben-Farding requires us, among the
most venerable literary work there and are fatigued by happiness in
the world, defeating the science.

I flatter myself that this inevitable substitution we must thank
the Ben-Farding wise. - Go and work - said the Sultan. - Hear and obey
- said Abu-el -Casino.

Indeed, the friendly African captain of the guard came first in the college with great looks
and ease in remote schools and kindergartens in solitude and proper
for the trial, looked built for the fertile banks of the Darro.

There
he found large numbers of doctors and Alfaquis studying day and night on
the book down from heaven, in the manifestation of the decrees of Allah, in a
word, in the suras and verses of the Koran God. - What are you doing?
- asked Abu-el-Casín some venerable old white and grown a beard,
broad, broad forehead, who sat on the lawn of green grass and under
a canopy of laurels. - Here - responded - we are composing prayers
to be recited morning through the streets and fields to Allah, the
Almighty, we send down rain, fertile and pleasant, we withdraw the
locusts, voracious and ravenous. recite altacabiras also praise and
gentle voice and clean heart and emotion. - And you, how do you occupy?
- also asked Abu-el-Casín other old men of little eyes sunken, narrow
forehead, blunt nose and a gesture that portrayed time and envy vanity.
- About Us - answered - we strive to discover in our study and set
the night on which Allah sent the holy book and God and his prophet
Mohammed encouraged.

When we determine
this point so essential, and we know how month falls this night of
mercy, whether in the Remade or in the month of Safer, we will overcome
all the doctors in our old age and those that blindly follow their decisions
and decrees.

Then we'll get to the head of them all, we will obey and respect us, impaled some, pursue and
win all great honor and, above all, great benefit. Helpful Abu-el-Casín grabbed four of these
good friends and put them on the way to the Citadel, and he went to the
academy, where many scientists disputed on grammar, philosophy, dialectics
and other sciences. - Who is that good friend? - said the friendly
Abu-el-casino, seeing one in a wide circle of listeners talking and
gesticulating with such faith as their own pleasure. - He - he said
- is the famous Wadar-the-FRANCIS, oracle of our century, the deposit
of eloquence, the treasury of beautiful phrases, urn of tropes and
figures of speech, and also - he added in a whisper - broad chest
and reasonable and overweening vanity tinajón candor. - He believes
- he added a mocking countenance student, stand there and present
the case - that learning the irregularities and variations concave
verbs and sick, you learn to know men, and strife and swears that
the stores needed to govern the state hilación with the metric and
the art of the consonants.

The friendly Abu-el-casino, to hear such a review
he said to himself: "I have the 100,205th aljamel I needed to complete my
account" and taking the eloquent El-Wadar by the sleeve of his jubba
interrupted him in his pleasant exercise, feeling the disappointment
that he, not so much by the position it would occupy between Ben-Farding
aljameles As for the black rage disgustillo and not heard well into
the twentieth own speech he had already begun to deliver to his audience,
and it would have been turning in and out more rouge and makeup and
bright colors of palabrillas that the nineteen remaining talks and
trumpets his lips that day.

Following the friendly African captain of
the guard entered the library and Abu-Melik Ben-Farax, and in this
eye halter to four poets who wrote verses Casida paths, thus assuming
direct the human race, and the other four writers atrailló serious
refuting facts, disproving the old chronicles, criticizing the ancient
writings, pouring and removing the mistrust traditional faith in everything,
made a miserable history of controversy.

These people were in his writings, not the accurate portrayal of the past centuries, but its peculiar
and petty way to see and appreciate the great deeds of the Caliphs, sultans and heroes , honor
and glory of Islam.

Allah will be nice to everyone! Abu-el-casino, meanwhile, directing many magnates to the Alcazaba,
said joyfully: - What tasia, what's so great shot of wisdom and intelligence! Ben-Farding Only
a king of madness, can have such an idea, but only I, Abu-el-friendly
Casín, African captain of the guard, I can give life to such a thought,
I can carry it out, I can do with all unmitigated consequences ...
And laughed like a basket, in short, came to the Alcazaba.

V The story goes that a few moments of this immense crowd filled a few streets and squares
divided the Alhambra and the old Roman Fortress. The inhabitants of villages
and hamlets immediate large, rustic and picturesque, but their number
was impossible to pass in review, left to come to this city of roses,
freshness and perfume, excited with the relationship of the adventures
to be had, and that trim the ends and they betrayed charms and wonders,
more strongly aroused public curiosity.

The nuances and varied Jaragüí and vivid flowers from their gardens and orchards, were more
faint and less wealthy than the colors and Capellaro Marlotes of
the young men, and silks, veils and touch of the shepherd who flocked
to Enter the gate of Elvira to be in the show.

Perhaps to a happier and galani enhancement of abundance and the joy, all brought their cármenes and
farmhouses, for exchange or gift, something to offer pleasant to taste,
smell or sight. Here, girls and spicy white veil and size bias, with bouquets
of syringa offered, musk scent of jasmines and red, others are there,
matching the white blossoms with buds of roses of Alexandria and small
pieces of candid bunches with bright red lilies and irises, offered
eloquent symbols and emblems of love for the beautiful and in love.

For the guys
here had branches of trees laden with fruit, here the golden grapefruit
and citron, and there the amascena the Alloza, others in green clubs
weaving cattails and lotus, and armed by gangs, according to the neighborhoods
of the city or the rival villages, attacked and wrestled in skirmishes
of new species, others were falling away many goldfinches and verderoles
cordless subjects and following them that huge competition between
the birds, and perched on the shoulders of the owner when they tired
child, never mistaken in such confusion and chaos.

On that side, the village occupied in baskets of reeds and rushes, under a thousand fanciful figures,
honey and flour, icing and Alfakhar. The African slaves sold jams and pastries, made with ajonjo
caniamum and rejoice the spirit, not intoxicate like wine.

The black esclavillos in vase carving or fine white dust from the Rambla, offered with the clear
water and the freshest of the purest sources and named. The merchants of little trays deployed
in India straw straps and ribbons that flattering taste and enthusiasm of the girls were tempted
to buy the gallants and young men.

Viejas of evil-looking crossed to and fro, carrying in his hand a ring or ornament, were coming
to it or to another chorus of veiled beauties or entering a house or another,
giving a date, giving a ticket, receiving a loving flower meaning,
no more zealous than the Argos could warn or surprise his mysterious
mission.

The boys knights of the city, carrying
in his hands odoriferous water bottles and scents, the shed where
there were loved and cherished her, pulling them and recognizing them
in so much confusion on the colors they wore.

The jugglers and acrobats entertained here and there on people's curiosity with a thousand wonderful
luck great: this command and obedience were the vermin and wild animals
brought from the interior of Africa, where, in unison, made out of
trees growing land was covered with leaves and flowers, ripening fruit,
and caught the unbelievers liked.

There improvised between the stones, and with a single word, a picturesque
waterfall and water games, and everywhere multiplying the wonders
and charms.

Perhaps some Christian taken captive at the border, noble status, or any gentleman of malcontents
and fugitives from the court of Castile, also walked from that crowd, recalling the evening in
his heart of Seville and Cordoba and the Guadalquivir orchards and
celebrations. The moedines crying in the towers of the mosques are
serious and measured, fakirs and devotees and repeated singing the verses
and altacabiras, while the bustle of the riotous and curious people
headed for the Citadel, where he had his den Ben-Farding mysterious.

All were eager to pass and review your Figure eyes and waist as foreign
wonderful character.

The
crowd in the streets are steep, and the women and children from the
windows and roofs of neck and drew spun head over power to spot as
soon as possible to authorized Accompanying that should precede the
habitation of the underground of the Alcazaba.

Finally, were seen twenty-four deformed executioners, who were as
nice colorful troupe of African captain of the guard Abu-el-Casino,
which came with two separate whips in their hands shaking right and
left to clear the ground and keep reasonable distance from the curious
and impertinent.

Incontinentia looked at one hundred and twelve great men of the State
and individuals wisest of the Divan, which with the addition of appendix
and his thirteen companions, chosen leg among the most distinguished
poets, speakers, and speakers alcatibes schools, libraries and academia
pulled a huge machine, which had installed the crazy Ben-Farding in
ponderous iron bed, neither more nor less than a tortoise in a shell
overwhelming.

Like all public curiosity keenly aroused, it is not completely satisfied, because for Ben-Farding
not suffer the light of day with the painful impression that they were threatened with eyes like
hers, so many years had been buried in the darkness of those underground
had empastelado enratonado or her person or in a cone of paper alcartaz
pyramidal figure, some flowers embroidered on it tipped pins for cracks
that could breathe so mild that crazy wallpaper. - I tell you, friend
Jargul - said it under one of the onlookers who were watching the
strange spectacle in Calle de Elvira, turning to another side Moor
had - that in less than twenty-four hours we have seen two processions
capricious, without catch a glimpse of the two mysterious people conducted
on them.

The first was, say, a pretty girl is; say it
is a fool; of it that we saw no litter and the cardboard in which it is
embedded. Never we, the people often, we see that the crust of things!
- Shut up and look, Albolalit - replied the other -.

Sucrase What you look at what you do not
care or could not know? Meanwhile, solázate me to see these Wazir
and Kadis, send us and whip us, and those vociferous speakers, hack writers
and poets who deceive us and stupefied, how they train in carrying
on his back the madness and what is worse, under the direction of
the friendly welcome Abu-el-casino, captain of the guard in Africa.

The more often people have no healthy pleasure to see when it reaches
those who humiliated humiliate him daily.

When
such a dish before us, we all hit it with a quart buckets and a half, our fill and take our revenge.
Mira Why tip them while leaning with his whip to the venerable Abu-el-Seid
and Abentomiz, that Ahilan with others in the herd, the friendly
Abu-el-casino, captain of the guard in Africa.

I remember even with pleasure the canes that
these gentlemen sent me arrimar not know how far from severed economy
that I used to apply on bread to sell at the market every morning.

It was already dark when that second procession entered the Alhambra, serving as the pleasant Abu-bastonero
the casino, African captain of the guard, who, going to stay on his
throne that awaited the Sultan, told the latter, playing before ten
times the earth with his forehead: - Prince of the believers, and
comes crazy on the backs of wisdom.

The Sultan was lost in samples of joy and the most intimate joy. The very wide room, illuminated
with a thousand lamps arabesque, was filled first with all members
of the divan, and second, with appendix of thirteen elected coadjutor
and hunted by Abu-el-casino, and also with the catafalque that where,
as in pie, is home to the whimsical Ben-Farding. - Take away - said
the Sultan - the hood of brown sugar and come to my arms my best friend,
the prince of the nonsense, the king of madness.

Forty informal Wazir, with eight hundred eighty hands and fingers, they rushed in droves to give effect
to the will of the Sultan, when a little voice gangozuela, but not altogether unpleasant, it was left
to hear within that shell, as sometimes the chirping chick in its
egg, said earnestly: - Do not do this, my brother, Mohamad powerful.

Before I discovered and descapiroten, strength is shut off all those lights. Abu-el-casino and has
told me: when he came to me, had to take water to extinguish the
slaves that he wisely turned into torches.

The darkness is what's best for now. - I get it - answered Sultan -. Ask
yourself as you say. And in an instant the room was in complete darkness,
every director or Vizier gave so strong a blow torch More immediately,
he killed her at one point, and while agitated wind rattled the doors
as if there was an earthquake. - Then - "Ben said Farding - brother
Mohamad, and can be bareheaded in the cowl that shelters me, that
bothers me right now. - You will be obeyed, king of madness - replied
Sultan.

And
he rose from his throne as groping, removed the covering of brown sugar,
adding: - Breathe and solázate, king of madness. - I am indeed the
king of madness - Ben-Farding said. - - Why not? - Sultan disturbed
articulated. And some clarity to meet the royal chamber, he would
have seen the color of the comb and yellow sulfur bath.

Certainly, the Prince of the believers should have said to himself "If this avechucho not the king
of madness, and after so many toils and extravagances have not found more than a madman from the
vulgar, a mad bland mediocrity, will be delivered to the despair and
desperation." Do not know where they had gone to the imaginations of
Sultan puzzled when, in the midst of darkness, was heard the voice
of Ben-Farding capricious, saying: - Dear Mohamad, why do I have to
cheat coating it with petty titles I have not won yet? "What! Is there
more to be the king of madness? But why worry, or distrust of finding
much damage remedy, relief from the evil and good outcome to such
disappointment.

The Sultan was comforted with words something so explicit, and said to himself:
"As is seen, the king of insanity is a force to be fabulous to be nonsensical
content with it, it will be a crazy serious and lofty, and one as captain
of a numerous and chosen the most topped Taifa.
  There wuz every color you could think on
almost, in her gown and some stars a shinin' through the floatin' drapery and a half moon restin'
up on her cloudy foretop like a beautiful orniment.

(I s'pose mebby it is proper to describe sunset in this way on goin' to such a dressy place,
though it haint my style to do so, I don't love to describe sunset as a female and don't, much
of the time, but I love to see things correspond.)

Wall, we descended from the cars and went to the boardin' place provided for us beforehand
by the look out of friends.  It wuz a good place, there haint no doubt of that, good folks;
good fare and clean.

Ardelia parted away from us at the depo.  She wuz a goin' to board to a smaller boardin' house
kep' by a second cousin of her father's brother's wife's aunt.  It wuz her father's request
that she should get her board there on account of its bein' in the family.  He loved "to see
relations hang together;" so he said, and "get their boards of each other."  But I thought
then, and I think now, that it wuz because they asked less for the board. Deacon Tutt is close.
But howsumever Ardelia went there, and my companion and me arrove at the abode where we wuz
to abide, with no eppisode only the triflin' one of the driver bein' dretful mistook as to
the price he asked to take us there.

I thought, and Josiah thought, that 50 cents wuz the outlay of expendatur he required to carry
us where we would be; it wuz but a short distance.  But no!  He said that 5 dollars wuz what
he said, that is, if we heard anything about a 5.  But he thought we wuz deef, and dident hear
him.  He thought he spoke plain, and said 4 dollars for the trip.

And on that price he sot down immovible.  They arged, and Josiah Allen even went so far as
to use language that grated on my nerve, it wuz so voyalent and vergin' on the profane.  But
there the man sot, right onto that price, and he had to me the appeerance of one who wuz goin'
to sot there on it all night.  And so rather than to spend the night out doors, in conversation
with him, he a settin' on that price, and Josiah a shakin' his fist at it, and a jawin' at
it, I told Josiah that he had better pay it.  And finally he did, with groanin's that could
hardly be uttered.

Wall, after supper (a good supper and enough on't), Josiah proposed that we should take a short
walk, we two alone, for Ardelia wuz afar from us, most to the other end of the village, either
asleep or a writin' poetry, I didn't know which, but I knew it wuz one or the other of 'em.
And I wuz tired enough myself to lay my head down and repose in the arms of sleep, and told
my companion so, but he said:

"Oh shaw!  Let old Morpheus wait for us till we get back, there'll be time enough to rest then."

Josiah felt so neat, that he wuz fairly beginnin' to talk high learnt, and classical.  But
I didn't say nothin' to break it up, and tied on my bonnet with calmness (and a double bow
knot) and we sallied out.

Soon, or mebby a little after, for we didn't walk fast on account of my deep tucker, we stood
in front of what seemed to be one hull side of a long street, all full of orniments and open
work, and pillows, and flowers, and carvin's, and scallops, and down between every scollop
hung a big basket full of posys, of every beautiful color under the heavens.  And over all,
and way back as fur as we could see, wuz innumerable lights of every color, gorgeousness a
shinin' down on gorgeousness, glory above, a shinin' down on glory below.  And sweet strains
of music wuz a floatin, out from somewhere, a shinin' somewhere, renderin' the seen fur more
beautiful to all 4 of our wraptured ears.

And Josiah sez, as we stood there nearly rooted to the place by our motions, and a picket fence,
sez he dreamily,

"I almost feel as if we had made a mistake, and that this is the land of Beuler."  And he murmured
to himself some words of the old him:

"Oh Beuler land! Sweet Beuler land!"

And I whispered back to him and sez - "Hush they don't have brass bands in Beulah land."

And he sez, "How do you know what they have in Beuler?"

"Wall," sez I, "'taint likely they do."

But I don't know as I felt like blamin' him, for it did seem to me to be the most beautiful
place that I ever sot my eyes on.  And it did seem fairly as if them long glitterin' chains
and links of colored lights, a stretchin' fur back into the distance sort a begoned for us
to enter into a land of perfect beauty and Pure Delight.

And then them glitterin' chains of light would jine onto other golden, and crimson, and orange,
and pink, and blue, and amber links of glory and hang there all drippin' with radiance, and
way back as fur as we could see.  And away down under the shinin' lanes the white statues stood,
beautiful snow-white females, a lookin' as if they enjoyed it all.  And the lake mirrowed back
all of the beauty.

Right out onto the lake stood a fairy-like structure all glowin' with big drops of light and
every glitterin' drop reflected down in the water and the fountain a sprayin' up on each side.
Why it sprayed up floods of diamonds, and rubys, and sapphires, and topazzes, and turkeys,
and pearls, and opals, and sparklin' 'em right back into the water agin.

And right while we stood there, neerly rooted to the spot and gazin' through extacy and 2 pickets,
the band gin a loud burst of melody and then stopped, and after a minute of silence, we hearn
a voice angel-sweet a risin' up, up, like a lark, a tender-hearted, golden-throated lark.

High, high above all the throngs of human folks who wuz cheerin' her down below - up above
the sea of glitterin' light - up above the bendin' trees that clasped their hands together
in silent applaudin' above her, up, up, into the clear heavens, rose that glorious voice a
singin' some song about love, love that wuz deathless, eternal.

Why it seemed as if the very clouds wuz full of shadowy faces a bendin' down to hear it, and
the new moon, shaped just like a boat, had glided down, down the sky to listen.

If the man of the moon was there he wuz a layin' in the bottom of the boat, he wuzn't in sight.
But if he heard that music I'll bet he would say he wuzn't in the practice of hearin' any better.
And Josiah stood stun still till she had got done, and then he sort a sithed out:

"Oh, it seems as if it must be Beuler land!  Do you s'pose, Samantha, Beuler land is any more
beautiful?"

And I sez, "I haint a thinkin' about Beulah."  I sez it pretty middlin' tart, partly to hide
my own feelin's, which wuz perfectly rousted up, and partly from principle, and sez I, "Don't
for mercy's sake call it Beuler."

Josiah always will call it so.  I've got a 4th cousin, Beulah Smith (my own age and unmarried
up to date), and he always did and would call her Beuler.  Truly in some things a pardner's
influence and encouragement fails to accomplish the ends aimed at.

Wall, it wuz after some words that I drew Josiah away from that seen of enchantment - or he
me, I don't exactly know which way it wuz - and we wended onwards in our walk.

The hull broad streets wuz full of folks, full as they could be, all on 'em perfect strangers
to us and who knew what motives or weapons they wuz a carryin' with 'em; but we knew we wuz
safe, Josiah and me did, for way up over all our heads, stood a big straight soldier, a volunteer
volunteerin, to see to the hull crew on 'em below, a seein' that they behaved themselves. 
His age wuz seventy-seven as near as I could make out but he didn't look more'n half that.
He had kep' his age remarkable.

Wall, it wuz, if I remember right, jest about now that we see a glitterin' high up over our
heads some writen in flame.  I never see such brilliant writin, before nor don't know as I
ever shall ag'in.

And Josiah stopped stun still, and stood a lookin' perfectly dumfoundered at it.  And finally
he sez, "I'd give a dollar bill if I could write like that."

I see he wuz deeply rousted up for 2 cents is as high as he usually goes in betted.  I see
he felt deep and I didn't blame him.  Why," sez he, "jest imagine, Samantha, a hull letter
wrote like that! how I'd love to send one back to Uncle Nate Gowdey.

"How Uncle Nate's eyes would open, and he wouldn't want no spectacles nor nothin' to read it
with, would he?  I wonder if I could do it," sez he, a beginnin' to be all rousted up.

But I sez, "Be calm," for so deep is my mind that I grasped the difficuties of the undertaken'
at once.  "How could yon send it, Josiah Allen?  Where would you get a envelop?  How could
you get it into the mail bag?"  Sez I, "When anybody would send a letter wrote like that, they
would want to write it on sheets of lightnin', and fold it up in the envelopin' clouds of the
skies, and it should be received by a kneelin' and reverent soul.  Who is Uncle Nate that he
should get it?  He has not a reverent Soul and he has also rheumatiz in his legs."

And then I thought, so quick and active is my mind when it gets to startin' off on a tower,
I thought of what I had hearn a few days before, of how the secret had been learnt by somebody
who lived right there in the village, of floatin' letters up at sea from one ship to another,
sigualin' out in letters of flame -

"Help!  I'm a sinkin'!" or "Danger ahead!  Look out!"

And I thought what it must be to stand on a dusky night on a lone deck and see up on the broad,
dark; lonesome sky above, a sudden message, a flash of vivid lightnin', takin' to itself the
form of language.  And I wondered to myself if in the future we should use the great pages
of the night-sky to write messages from one city to another, or from sea to land, of danger
and warnin'; and then I thought to myself, if souls clog-bound to earth are able to accomplish
so much, who knows but the freed soul goin' outward and onward from height to height of wisdom
may yet be able to signal down from the Safe Land messages of help and warnin' to the souls
it loved below.

The souls a sailin' and a driftin' through the dark night of despair - a dashin' along through
fog and mist and darkness aginst rocks.  What it would be to one kneelin' in the lonesome night
watches by a grave, if the dark sky could grow luminous and he could read, - "Do not despair!
I am alive!  I love you!"

Or, in the hour of the blackest temptation and dread, when the earth is hollow and the sky
a black vault, and the only way of happiness on God's earth seems down the dangerous, beautiful
way, God-forbidden, what would it be to have the empty vault lit up with "Danger ahead!  We
will help you! be patient a little longer!"

Oh how fur my thoughts wuz a travellin', and at what a good jog, but not one trace did my companion
see on my forward of these thoughts that wuz a passin' through my foretop: and at that very
minute, we came up nigh enough to see that right back of the glitterin' language overhead,
went a long line of big, glowin' stars of glory way up over our heads, and leadin' down a gentle
declivity and Josiah sez, "Let's foller on, and see what it will lead us to, Samantha."

"Wall," sez I, "light is pretty generally, safe to foller, Josiah Allen."  And so we meandered
along, keepin' our 2 heads as nigh as we could under that long glitterin' chain of golden drops
that wuz high overhead.  And on, and on, we follered it dilligently; till for the land's sake!
if it didn't lead us to another one of them openwork buildin's, fixed off beautiful, and we
could see inside 2 big wells like, with acres of floor seemin'ly on each side of 'em, and crowds
of folks a walkin' about and settin' at little tables and most all of 'em a drinkin'.

The water they drinked we could see wuz a bubblin' up and a runnin' over all the time, in big
round crystal globes.  And up, up on a slender pole way up over one of the wells hung another
one of them crystal bowls, a bubblin' over with the water and sparklin'.

And ag'in Josiah asked me if I thought Beuler land could compare with it?

And I told him ag'in kinder sharp, That I wuzn't a thinkin' about Beuler, I didn't know any
sech a place or name.  I wish he would call things right.

Wall, he wuz so dead tired by this time, that we sot sail homewards; that is, my feet wuz tired,
and my bones, but my mind seemed more rousted up than common.

VI.

SARATOGA BY DAYLIGHT.

Wall, the next mornin' Josiah and me sallied out middlin' early to explore still further the
beauties and grandness of Saratoga.  I had on a black straw bonnet, a green vail, and a umbrell.
I also have my black alpacky, that good moral dress.

My dress bein' such a high mission one choked me.  It wuz so high in the neck it held my chin
up in a most uncomfortable position, but sort a grand and lofty lookin'.  My sleeves wuz so
long that more'n half the time my hand wuz covered up by 'em and I wuz too honerable to wear
'em for mits; no, in the name of principle I wore 'em for sleeves, good long sleeves, a pattern
to other grandmas that I might meet.

I felt that when they see me and see what I wuz a doin' and endurin' fur the cause of female
dressin' they would pause in their wild career, and cover up their necks and pull their sleeves
down.

Wall, it haint to be expected that I could walk along carryin' such hefty emotions as I wuz
a carryin', and havin' my neck held high and stiddy both by principle and alpacky, and see
to every step I wuz a takin'.  And, first I knew, right while I was enjoyin' the loftiest of
these emotions, I ketched my foot in sunthin', and most fell down.  Instinctively (such is
the power of love) I put out my hand and clutched at the arm of my pardner. But he too wuz
nearly fallin' at the same time.  It wuz a narrow chance that we wuz a runnin' from having
our prostrate forms a layin' there outstretched on the highway.

Instinctively I sez, "Good land!" and Josiah sez -- wall, it is fur from me to tell what he
said, but it ended up with these words, "Dumb them dumb sidewalks anyway;" and sez he, "I should
think it would pay to have a little less gilt paint and spangles and orniments overhead and
a few more solid bricks unless they want more funerals here, dumb 'em!"

Sez I,"Be calm! who be you a talkin' about? who do you want to bring down your fearful curses
on, Josiah Allen?"

"Why, onto the dumb bricks," sez he.

He wuz agitated and I said no more.  But four times in that first walk, did I descend almost
precipitously into declivities amongst the bricks, risin' simultaneously on similar elevations.

It wuz a fearful ordeel and I felt it so, but upheld by principle and Josiah, I moved onwards,
through what seemed to be 5 great throngs and masses of people, 3 on the ground and 2 hinted
up above us on tall pillows.

Them immense places overhead long as the streets, wuz kinder scalloped out and trimmed off
handsum with railin's, etc.  And on it -- oh! what a vast congregation of heads of all sorts
and sizes and colors.  And oh! what a immense display of parasols; why no parasol store in
the land could begin with what I see there.

I can truly say that I thought I knew somethin' about parasols;, havin' owned 3 different ones
in the course of my life, and havin' one covered over.  I thought I knew somethin' of their
nater and habits, which is a good deal, so I had always s'posed, like a umbrell's.  But good
land!  I gin up that I knew them not, nor never had.

Why anybody could learn more on 'em through one jerney down that street, than from a hull lifetime
in Jonesville.  Truly travel is very upliftin' and openin' and spreadin' out to the mind, both
in parasols and human nater.

Wall, them 2 masses over our heads wuz 2, then the one in which we wuz a strugglin' and the
one opposite to it made 4.  For anybody with any pretence to learnin' knows that twice 2 is
4.  And then in the middle of the broad street was a bigger mass of chariots and horsemen,
and carts and carriages, and great buggies and little ones, and big loads of barrels, and big
loads of ladies, and then a load of wood, and then a load of hay, and then a pair of young
folks pretty as a picture.  And then came some high big coaches as big as our spare bedroom,
and as high as the roof on our horse barn, with six horses hitched to e'm, all runnin' over
on top with men; and wimmen, and children, and parasols, and giggles, and ha ha's.  And a man
wuz up behind a soundin' out on a trumpet, a dretful sort of a high, sweet note, not dwindlin'
down to the end as some music duz, but kinder crinklin' round and endin' up in the air every time.

Josiah wuz dretful took with it and he told me in confidence that he laid out when he got home
to buy a trumpet and blow out jest them strains every time he went into Jonesville or out of
it.  He said it would sound so sort a warlike and impressive.

I expostulated aginst the idee.  But sez he, "You'll enjoy it when you get used to it."

"Never!" sez I.

"Yes you will," sez he, "and while I live I lay out that you shall have advantages, and shall
enjoy things new and uneek."

"Yes," sez I feelin'ly, "I expect to, Josiah Allen, as long as I live with you."  And I sithed.
But I had little time to enjoy even sithin', for oh! the crowd that wuz a pressin' onto us
and surroundin' us on every side, some on 'em curius and strange lookin', some on 'em beautiful
and grand.  Pretty young girls lookin' sweet enough to kiss, and right behind 'em a Chinese
man with a long dress, and wooden shoes, and his hair in a long braid behind, and his eyes
sot in sideways.  And then would come on a hull lot of wimmen in dresses ev'ry color of the
rainbow, and some men.  Then a few childern, lookin' sweet as roses, with their mothers a pushin'
the little carts ahead on 'em.  And if you'll believe it, I don't s'pose you will, but it is
true, that lots of black ma's had childern jest as white as snow, and pretty as rosebuds, took
after their fathers I s'pose.  But I don't believe in a mixin' of the races.  And when I see
'em a kissin' the pretty babys, I begun to muse a very little on the feelin's of the indignent
South, at havin' a colered girl set in the same car with 'em, or on a bench in the same school
room.

I mewsed on how they held the white forms clost to their black breasts at birth, and in the
hour of death -- the black lips pressed to the white cheeks and lips, in both cases.  And all
the way between life and death they mingle clost as they can, some in some cases like the hill
of knowledge.  Then the contact is too clost, when they sot out to climb up by 'em.  Truly
there are deep conundrums and strange ones, all along through life; though the white man may
be, and is, cleer up out of his way, on the sunshiny brow of the hill, and the black man at
the foot, way down amongst the shadows and darkness of the low grounds.  They don't come very
nigh each other.  But the arms that have felt the clasp and the lips that have felt the kisses
of that very same black climber all through life, moves 'em and shouts 'em to "go down," to
"go back,"

"The contact is getting too clost, danger is ahead."  Curious, haint it?  Jest as if any danger
is so dangerous as ignorance and brutality.  Curious, haint it?  But I am a eppisodin', and
to resoom.

Wall, right after the babies we'd meet a Catholic priest with a calm and fur away look on his
face, a lookin' at the crowd as if he wuz in it, but not of it.  And then a burgler, mebby,
anyway a mean lookin' creeter, ragged and humble.  And then 2 or 3 men foreign lookin', jabberin'
in a tongue I know nothin' of, nor Josiah either.  And then some more childern, and wimmen,
and dogs, and parasols, and men, and babies, and Injuns, and Frenchmen, and old young wimmen,
and young old ones, and handsome ones, and hombly ones, and parasols, and some sweet young
girls ag'in, and some black men, and some white men, and some more wimmen, and parasols, and
silk, and velvet, and lace, and puckers, and raffles, and gethers, and gores, and flowers,
and feathers, and fringes, and frizzles, and then some men, some Southerners from the South,
some Westerners from the West, some Easterners from the East, and some Cubebs from Cuba, and
some Chinamen from China.

Oh! what a seen!  What a seen! back and forth, passin' and repassin', to and fro, parasols,
and dogs, and wimmen, and men, and babies, and parasols, to and fro, to and fro.  Why, if I
stood there long so crazed would I have become at the seen, that I should have felt that Josiah
wuz a To and I wuz a Fro, or I wuz a parasol and he wuz a dog.

And to prevent that fearful catastrophe, I sez, "If we ever get beyond this side of the village
that seems all run together, if we ever do get beyond it, which seems doubtful, le's go and
sit down, in some quiet spot, and try to collect our scattered minds."  Sez I, "I feel curius,
Josiah Allen!" and sez I, "How do you feel?"

His answer I will not translate; it was neither Biblical nor even moral.  And I sez agin, "Hain't
it strange that they have the village all run together with no streets turnin' off of it."
Sez I, "It makes me feel queer, Josiah Allen, and I am a goin' to enquire into it."  So we
wended our way some further on amongst the dense crowd I have spoken of, only more crowded
and more denser, and anon, if not oftener, Josiah's head would be scooped in by passin' parasols,
and then in low, deep tones, Josiah would use words that I wouldn't repeat for a dollar bill,
till at last I asked a by bystander a standin' by, and sez I, "Is this village all built together
-- don't you have no streets a turnin' off of it?"

"Yes," sez he, "you'll find a street jest as soon as you get by this hotel."

I stopped right in my tracts; I wuz dumbfoundered.  Sez I, "Do you mean to say that this hull
side of the street that we have been a traversin' anon, or long before anon, -- do you say
that this is all one buildin'?"

"Yes mom," sez he.

Sez I, in faint axents, "When shall we get to the end on it?"

Sez he, "You have come jest about half way."

Josiah gin a deep groan and turned him round in his tracts and sez, "Le's go back this minute."

I too thought of the quiet haven from whence we had set out, with a deep longin', but sech
is the force and strength of my mind that I grasped holt of the situation and held it there
tight.  If we wuz half way across it wouldn't be no further to go on than it would to go back.
Such wuz my intellect that I see it to once, but Josiah's mind couldn't grasp it, and with
words murmured in my ears which I will never repeat to a livin' soul he wended on by my side
through the same old crowd -- parasols, and wimmen, and dogs, and babies, and men, and parasols,
and Injuns, and Spanards, and Creoles, and pretty girls, and old wimmen, and puckers, and gethers,
and bracelets, and diamonds, and lace, and parasols. Several times, if not more, wuz Josiah
Allen scooped in by a parasol held by a female, and I felt he wuz liable to be torn from me.
His weight is but small.  3 times his hat fell off in the operation and wuz reskued with difficulty,
and he spoke words I blush to recall as havin' passed my pardner's lips.

Wall, in the fullness of time, or a little after, for truly I wuz not in a condition to sense
things much, we arrove at a street and we gladly turned our 2 frames into it, and wended our
way on it, goin' at a pretty good jog.  The crowd a growin' less and less and we kep a goin',
and kep a goin', till Josiah sez in weary axents:

"Where be you a goin', Samantha?  Haint you never goin' to stop? I am fairly tuckered out."

And I sez in faint axents, "I would fain reach a land where parasols and puckers are not and
dogs and diamonds are no more."

I wuz middlin' incoherent from my agitation.  But I meant well.  I wuz truly in hopes I would
reach some quiet place where Josiah and me could set down alone.  Where I could look in quiet
and repose upon that dear bald head, and recooperate my strength. 

Sources and presents him under the moss with a divine music, and among the branches overhead, flocks
of warblers warble your notes will sound, and everything conspires to prevent the wood composition of
his speech.

Everything conspires to the grove prevent the composition of his
speech.

Mr subprefect aromas drunk, drunk music, seeks in vain to resist the charm that invades again.
Placed his elbows on the grass, beautiful coat unzips and sputtering two or three times: - Ladies
and managed ones.

Lords and administrative ones ... Dear Sirs and Manda ... then walk
to citizens, and the Muse of the agricultural fair vese forced to
cover his face.

Cover your face, O Muse of the agricultural fair!

When, after an hour, the people of the subprefactura, disturbed by his
master, enter the grove, watching in horror a show that makes them
back.

Mr. prefect, bare-chested as a bohemian, he was lying face down on the grass. He had removed his
coat, and chewing flowers, Mr. prefect composed verses. THE POET MISTRAL
When I woke up last Sunday and sit up in bed, I thought for a moment,
that was in the rue du Faubourg-Montmartre.

It was raining, the sky was gray, the mill sad. " I brushed away the idea of going home that day of rain,
and sentimental to the point eager to go to warm a bit to that of
Frederic Mistral, the great poet who resides in Maillane, village
which is three leagues of my pine trees.

Said and done : a branch of myrtle stake my Montaigne, a blanket,
and the road!

Not a soul in the fields ... Our beautiful Catholic Provence on Sunday gives rest to the ground
... Dogs welcome in the homes, farms closed ... Occasionally, a galley of "ordinary" with the dripping
tent, an old, covered her head with her shawl color of dried leaves; mules decorated with trim
esparto blue and white, strawberry red, silver bells, pulling a cart in which the people of
the farms go to Mass, then, down there among the shreds of mist,
a boat on the river and a fisherman standing , launching his casting
net. absolutely impossible to read on the road that day.

It rained in torrents, and the north wind threw the water buckets
in the face ... I did the walk of a hitch, and after walking three
hours, I saw before me in the end the three cipresitos in guarécese
through which wind the region of Maillane.

Not even a cat walking through the streets of the village, the whole world was at mass. When I passed
in front of the church, the Piporro buzzed, and I saw the candles shine
through the multi-colored stained glass. The poet dwells at the end
of the municipality, in the second season left home on the road Saint-Remy,
a one-story house with a garden in front ... I go very slowly ... No
one! The classroom door is closed, but I hear that after her walk
and talk out loud ... I know a lot that happened and that voice ...
I pause a moment in the whitewashed with lime corredor, laying his hand
on the latch of the door, very excited.

My heart beats. What a shock! There. Working ... "I will wait to finish the verse? Faith, much worse!
Inside! * * * * * Ah, Paris! Maillane When the poet came to visit you
to teach your Mireya Paris, and saw the city Chactas suit with straight
collar and top hat, which bothered him as well as its glory, they
believed that it was Mistral ... No, it was not him.

Throughout the world there is nothing more than a Mistral, which surprised
me last Sunday in their hamlet, with a felt hat with wide brim at
the ear, without vest of jacket, with its red Catalan belt squeezing
the kidneys, eyes bright with the fire of inspiration in her cheeks,
her sweet smile, beautiful, elegant as a Greek shepherd, and light
walking, hands in his pockets composing verses. - Hello!

Do you here? "- shouted Mistral, a jump arrojándoseme neck .-- What a great idea you had to
come!

... Just today is the feast of Maillane. We Avignon music, bullfights, processions, entertainment,
and this will be great ... My mother will soon return from Mass, lunch,
and then see how the pretty girls dance.

As I spoke, I looked thrilled that paper parlor clear that for a long time since I had seen
and where I spent hours and so beautiful. All was the same. Always
the same yellow sofa tables, two straw chairs, the Venus de Milo,
and the Venus of Arles in the fireplace, the portrait of the poet
by Hébert, photograph by Stephen Carjat, and in a corner near window,
the desktop, a humble official registration table, completely packed
with old big books and dictionaries.

In the midst of that desk was a large open book ... It was Calendal
the new poem by Frederic Mistral, which will see the spotlight this
year on Christmas Day.

Mistral for seven years working in that poem, and about six months
he wrote the last verse, however, has not yet decided to leave him.

Clearly, there's a verse that conclusion, a more sonorous rhyme to
find ... Although written Mistral of Provence, polishing his lines
as if everyone could read in that language and have him on account
of their efforts to good worker ... Oh, brave poet!

Mistral De Montaigne could also say: Remember the one who, like ask
him why he took so much work in an art that could only come to the
attention of few people, said: "Few need.

I have only one. I have enough to none. "* * * * * I was in the
hands Calendal notebook and hojeábalo deeply moved ... A band of fifes
and drums sounded suddenly on the street in front of the window, and
behold Mistral running to the closet, takes out his glasses and bottles,
put the table in the middle of the room, and opens the door to the
musicians, telling - You must not laugh ... Come to give me the dawn
... I am a councilman.

People invaded the little room. They put the drums on the chairs, the old flag in a corner,
and the wine circulated Trasañejo. After consuming several bottles to the health of Don Federico,
to talk seriously about the party, whether the entertainment will
be as beautiful as the year above, whether the bulls are brave, vans
musicians to give the home dawn of the other council members. In that
moment comes Mistral's mother.

At one point set the table, a beautiful white tablecloth and two
covers.

I know the custom of the House: I know that when Mistral has invited his mother sits at the
table ... The poor old woman does not speak more than the Provencal,
and it would great anguish if I had to talk with French ... On the
other hand, is missing in the kitchen.

Good God, what more complete meal they gave me that morning! A piece of roast goat, mountain cheese,
mostillo, figs, grapes, muscat, all sprinkled with that exquisite
Château-neuf of the Popes, a very beautiful red color in the glasses
... For dessert, I will seek book of the poem and put it on the table
in front of Mistral. - We agreed to go - the poet said, smiling. -
No, no! Calendal!

Calendal! Mistral compromises and sweet musical voice, keeping time of the verses with his hand,
starts reading the first song: From a lovesick lass, now has the
misfortune, sing, God willing, a son of Cassis, an unhappy fisherman
anchovies ... Outside was heard the ringing of bells coming to vespers,
the rockets exploded in the square, passed and returned to spend fifes
and drums in the streets.

Camargue bulls bellowing, led to the fight.

Leaning on the tablecloth, with tears in their eyes, hear the history
of Provencal pescadorcillo. * * * * * Calendal is only a fisherman,
love transforms him into a hero ... To win the heart of his beloved,
the beautiful Esterella, attacks miraculous companies, and the twelve
labors of Hercules are nothing when compared to theirs.

Once, as he happened to get rich, invent formidable gear and drag the port all fish of the
sea. Again, going to challenge in its own nest of eagles to a terrible bandit Ollionles throats,
Count Severan, including thugs and bullies ... Brave young lad is that warmer Calendal! One
day at Sainte-Beaume faced with two games of craftsmen who had gone there to air their disputes
with great blows of a bar, on the tomb of the master Yago, a Provencal built armor Solomon's temple,
if you do not get angry. Calendal launches amid the carnage and put peace to talk only with
fellow ... Companies superhuman! ... Up on the rocks of Lure, a cedar forest was inaccessible,
where one woodcutter never dared to go. Calendal and will remain there for thirty days completely
alone. For thirty days, you hear the sound of his ax, that resonates
with the collapse in the logs.

Ruge the forest, one after another giant old trees fall and roll
to the bottom of the abyss, and when Calendal down, and there is not
a cedar in the mountains ... After all and as a reward for such feats,
the anchovy fishermen get Esterella love, and was appointed consul
for the inhabitants of Cassis.

This is the story of Calendal.

But what matters Calendal? What lives, particularly in the poem is Provence, Provence in the
sea, the mountains of Provence, with its history, customs, traditions, landscapes, whole and free innocent
people has found great poet prior to death ... And now, delineate railroad, telegraph poles
planted, expel the Provençal language schools!

Provenza has to live eternally and Calendal Mireya!

* * * * * - Enough poetry! - Mistral said, closing his notebook .-- It is necessary to see
the fun. We left.

The whole town was on the streets, a gust of cold wind had dissipated the clouds of heaven, shining
happily on the red roofs, wet with rain. We arrived in time to witness
the procession returned. During an hour was what an endless parade
of penitents with hoods, white penitents, blue penitents, penitents
gray guilds veiled girls, red banners with gold flowers, large images,
some wood shameful and conducted in four shoulders, and other china
colorful as idols with large bouquets in hand, layered chorus, incense,
canopies of green velvet, surrounded by white silk crucifixes, all
this fluttering in the wind, between the light of the candles and
the sun, amid psalms of litanies and the bells that never ceased to
touch the alarm.

After the procession and placed back the saints in their shrines,
we went to see the bulls later era games, the struggles of men, the
three falls The ahorcagato, the game in the skin and the whole apparatus
of the party fun Provencal ... Night was falling when we returned
to Maillane.

In plaza in front of the cafe where he spends his evenings playing Mistral his game with his friend
Zidore, had lit a bonfire beautiful ... We organized the entertainment.
Cut paper lanterns shone everywhere among the dark, youth took place,
and then, a roll of drums, the flames started around one run rampant,
boisterous, which had not ceased overnight.

* * * * * After dinner, rendered extremely tired to run again, we went to the bedroom of Mistral. It's
a modest peasant's bedroom with two large beds. The walls are plastered; sort are exposed ceiling
beams ... Four years ago, when the Academy awarded the prize Mireya
author of three thousand francs, it occurred to Ms. Mistral an idea.
- Do not you think that wallpaper your bedroom ceiling and put him?
- Asked his son. - No, no! - Mistral said .-- This is the money of
the poets can not be touched.

And the bedroom was once again naked.

But while the money lasted poets, who have come to Mistral found
his purse open ... I had the room I carried the manuscript of Calendal,
and encourage them to read me another place to sleep.

Mistral elected the episode of the dishes.

In short is this: being celebrated a great meal, somewhere. Placed on the table a beautiful
Moustiers earthenware dishes.

At the bottom of each plate is a matter of Provence, drawn in blue on the glass, there is contained
all the region's history.

It is worth seeing the beautiful love that is described that beautiful crockery, a verse for
each plate, as many short poems in a simple and scholarly work, finishing with a description
of the Theocritus.

When I Mistral recited his poems in this beautiful Provençal language,
Latin in more than three-quarters, formerly spoken by the queen and
now include only the monks, I admired in my heart that man.

And
thinking of the dilapidated state in which he found his mother tongue
and what she's done with, imaginábame one of those ancient palaces
of the princes of Baux you see in the Alpilles: homeless, handrails
on the steps, without glass in the windows, broken clover warheads,
corroded by rust shield doors, chickens pecking in the courtyard,
pigs rooting under the slender columns of the galleries, the donkey
grazing inside the chapel, where it grows grass, pigeons drink in
large fonts of holy water, overflowing with rain water, and finally,
among the rubble two or three families of laborers who have built
huts around the ancient palace.

And then the day comes that the child one of those peasant falls in love with these great ruins
and is outraged to see them thus desecrated, hastily thrown cattle courtyard
outside, and coming to his aid fairies, rebuilt itself the monumental
staircase, again to put boards on walls and windows in the fixtures,
rebuild the towers, re-gild the throne room and gets up the vast palace
of old, where they found lodging potatoes and empresses.

This restored palace is the Provençal language. Mistral is the son of the farmer. THE ORANGES
Oranges in Paris is the sad aspect of fallen fruit, taken together with the trees. When they arrive,
in rainy and cold winter, their bright flavor crust and overgrown,
these countries mild flavor, give them a strange air, somewhat bohemian.
During the nights of fog, are sadly paying for sidewalks, street
carts piled up, the mean radiance of a red paper lantern.

A dull and weak cry, lost in the rumble of cars and the noise of the buses, serves as escort.
- Twenty cents Valencia oranges! For the three quarters of Paris, that
fruit brought from afar, from vulgar roundness, where the tree is not
has left nothing but an insignificant green stalk, part of the candy,
confectionery.

The tissue that is involved, the accompanying festivities, contribute
to that impression.

As January
approaches, especially the thousands of oranges scattered on the streets,
all these shells thrown in the mud of the creek, they think of a giant
Christmas tree to shake the branches over Paris artificial fruit
curds.

No corner some where not visible. After the clean glass showcase, chosen and decorated, at the
door of prisons and asylums, between packets of biscuits and small
piles of apples in front of the colonnades of dancing and drama on
Sunday.

And its exquisite aroma mingles with the smell of gas, the creaking
of the bulkheads, the dust from the sidewalks of paradise. So forget
that it takes to produce oranges orange, for, while the fruit sent
to us directly from the south tucked into drawers, the tree overwintering
range, cut, transformed, disguised, appears only once, and for a short
time outdoors in public places.

For it is necessary to see the
oranges in the countries that produce them: in the Balearic Islands in
Sardinia, Corsica, Algeria, between the air blue gold, in the warm
Mediterranean atmosphere.

I'll never forget a grove of orange trees that I saw Blidah doors. Oh how they were beautiful!
Among the foliage dark, glossy, lacquered, fruits had the luster of colored
glasses, and gilded the air that surrounded with the aura of splendor
that surrounds the bright colored flowers. Some possible to see clear
through the walls of the branches of the small town, the minaret
of a mosque, the dome of a marabout, and atop the huge mass of Atlas,
green at the base, snow on top, and cover of white leather, with whitecaps,
with the white flakes fallen.

While I was there one night because of some unknown
phenomenon from thirty years ago, that area of winter frosts on the
city agitose asleep and woke Blidah processed, powdered white.

At the Algerian air, so soft and so pure, resembled pearl powder,
with hints of peacock feathers.

The most beautiful was the forest of orange trees.

The snow kept green leaves intact and upright as sherbet dishes over
lacquer, and all the fruits dusted with frost offered a smooth and
beautiful tone, a discrete radiation, such as gold ensured transparent
white fabric.

That produced a vague impression a party of church, low red cassocks albs lace, golden lace altar
surrounded by wire ... However, my fondest memories in the field of oranges come from Barbicaglia,
a large garden next to Ajaccio, where I spent siesta during the hot hours. Orange, and spaced higher
there than in Blidah, reached the road, only separated from the garden by a hedge and ditch. The
sea, the vast blue sea, its vast plains stretching immediately after
the garden. What good hours I spent in that garden! On top of my head,
orange blossom and fruit aromas burned their essences. A mature orange
tree gave off, from time to time, falling near me as lethargic from
the heat, with a dull noise and echo in the packed earth. To seize
it, I reach out enough. They were superb fruit a purplish red inside. Parecíanme
exquisite, and then the horizon was so beautiful!

Between the sheets smelled the sea in dazzling blue spaces like pieces of broken glass that mirrors
between the mists of the air. At the same time that the movement of the
waves stirring the air over long distances, the rhythmic murmur that
rocks us like an invisible boat, the heat, the smell of oranges ...
Ah, how I could sleep in the Garden of Barbicaglia!

However, sometimes at the most pleasant nap, startled despertábanme drumbeats. Military musicians
were unhappy rehearsed down there on the road. Through the hedge clear shining copper drums
and I saw the big white aprons over red pants. To shelter a bit of the dazzling light of the dusty
road reflectors sent them mercilessly, the poor devils situábanse
by the garden, in the short shadow of the hedge. And brave as they
joined the din, and stifling heat, the suffering!

Then, coming out of my hypnotic power, entertained me throwing some
of those beautiful fruits of red gold that hung within reach of my
hand.

The drummer who stopped pointing. A moment of hesitation, a look around to find out where they would orange
pride he tumbled into the ditch; recogíala after lightly and bite mouth full, even unpeeled. I
remember well that about Barbicaglia, separated only by a low wall, was a rather strange little
garden, which dominated me from height it was. It was a corner of
land, common design.

Its streets, bright sand, beribboned box of green farmland, the two
cypress trees of his front door, dábanle appearance of a house in
Marseille.

Not a shadow line. At bottom, a white stone building, with basement
windows at ground level.

At first I thought it was fifth, but after looking more closely, that finished off the cross and
an inscription in stone, and whose text could not tell, I did recognize
a Corsican family tomb.

On the outskirts
of Ajaccio many of these mortuary chapels, which rise lonely surrounded
by gardens. The family goes there on Sundays to visit their dead.

Understood in this way death is so sad that in the confusion of the
cemeteries.

Just steps friends disturb the silence. From my room I watched the comings and goings of an old circulating
evenly through the malls. All day was trimming the trees, digging, watering, cutting spent flowers
with meticulous care.

Then at sunset, entered the chapel where lay the dead of his family, kept the hoes, rakes, large
showers all this calmly, with the serenity of a gardener in a cemetery. However, without realizing
it, that good man worked with some meditation, quieting the noise
and the vault door always closed quietly, as if he believes the of
awakening to some.

In the midst of silence, the settlement did not disturb the little garden or a bird, and its
vicinity there was nothing sad, but the sea was thus more massive, the highest heaven, and in that
endless siesta around it transcended the feeling of eternal rest, between nature intoxicating,
overwhelming, full of life. IN TRAVEL NOTES Milianah I'll drive
to you now to a nice little city in Algeria, two or three hundred
miles from the mill, to spend the day there ... This will make a little
change so many drums and cicadas ... ... Threat rain, the sky is gray,
mist envelops the mountain peaks Zacca. Gloomy Sunday ... In my little
room inn, whose window overlooks the Arab walls, lighting cigarettes
try to distract me ... All the guest library has been put at my disposal,
from a very detailed history of the census of population and some
novels of Paul de Kock, I found a tattered volume of Montaigne ... I open
the book where he wants to open, and re-read the remarkable letter
in which the author describes the death of La Boétie ... Here am I
so gloomy and dark as I was never ... Few drops of rain fall.

  Dretful smart, knowin' waters they be, fairly sparklin' and flashin' with
light and brightness, and intelligence. They are for the healin' and refreshin' of ,the nations,
and the nations are all here this summer, a bein' healed by 'em.  But still I lay a good deal
to that air.

Amongst the things that Aunt Polly told me about wimmen that day, wuz this, that Ardelia Tutt
had got a new Bo, Bial Flamburg, by name.

She said Mr. Flamburg had asked Ardelia's 3d cousin to introduce him to her, and from that
time his attentions to her had been unremittent, voyalent, and close.  She said that to all
human appearance he wuz in love with her from his hat band down to his boots and she didn't
know what the result would be, though she felt that the situation wuz dangerus, and more'n
probable Abram Gee had more trouble ahead on him.  (Aunt Polly jest worships Abram Gee, jest
as everybody duz that gets to know him well.) And I too, felt that the situation wuz dubersome.
For Ardelia I knew wuz one of the soft little wimmen that has got to have men a trailin' round
after 'em; and her bein' so uncommon tender hearted, and Mr. Flamburg so deep in love, I feared
the result.

Wall, I wuz jest a thinkin' of this that day after dinner when Josiah proposed a walk, so we
sot out.  He proposed we should walk through the park, so we did.  The air wuz heavenly sweet
and that park is one of the most restful and beautiful places this side of Heaven, or so it
seemed to us that pleasant afternoon.  The music was very soft and sweet that day, sweet with
a undertone of sadness, some like a great sorrowful soul in a beautiful body.

The balmy south wind whispered through the branches of the bendin' trees on the hill where
we sot.  The light was a shinin' and a siftin' down through the green leaves, in a soft golden
haze, and the music seemed to go right up into them shadowy, shinin' pathways of golden misty
light, a climbin' up on them shadowy steps of mist and gold, and amber, up, up into the soft
depths of the blue overhead - up to the abode of melody and love.

Down the hill in the beautiful little valley, all amongst the fountains and windin' walks and
white statutes, and green, green, grass, little children wuz a playin'.  Sweet little toddlers,
jest able to walk about, and bolder spirits, though small, a trudgin' about with little canes,
and jumpin' round, and havin' a good time.

Little boys and little girls (beautiful creeters, the hull on 'em), for if their faces, every
one on 'em, wuzn't jest perfect! They all had the beauty of childhood and happiness.  And crowds
of older folks wuz there.  And some happy young couples, youths and maidens, wuz a settin'
round, and a wanderin' off by themselves, and amongst them we see the form of Ardelia, and
a young man by her side.

She wuz a leanin' on the stun railin' that fences in the trout pond.  She wuz evidently a lookin'
down pensively at the shinin' dartin' figures of the trout, a movin' round down in the cool waters.

I wuzn't nigh enough to 'em to see really how her companion looked, but even at that distance
I recognized a certain air and atmosphere a surroundin' Ardelia that I knew meant poetry.

And Josiah recognized it too, and he sez to me, "We may as well go round the hill and out to
the road that way," sez he, (a pointin' to the way furthest from Ardelia) "and we may as well
be a goin'."

That man abhors poetry.

Wall, we wandered down into the high way and havin' most the hull afternoon before us, we kinder
sauntered round amongst the stores that wuz pretty nigh to where we wuz.  There is some likely
good lookin' stores kep' by the natives, as they call the stiddy dwellers in Saratoga.  Good
lookin' respectable stores full of comfort and consolation, for the outer or inner man or woman.
(I speak it in a mortal sense).

But with the hundred thousand summer dwellers, who flock here with the summer birds, and go
out before the swallers go south, there comes lots of summer stores, and summer shops, and
picture studios, etc., etc.  Like big summer bird's-nests, all full and a runnin' over with
summer wealth, to be blowed down by the autumn winds.  These shops are full of everything elegant
and beautiful and useful.  The most gorgeous vases and plaks and chiner ware of every description
and color, and books, and jewelry, and rugs, and fans, and parasols, and embroideries, and
laces, and etc., etc., etc.

And one shop seemed to be jest full of drops of light, light and sunshine, crystalized in golden,
clear, tinted amber.  There wuz a young female statute a standin' up in the winder of that
store with her hands outstretched and jest a drippin' with the great glowin' amber drops. 
Some wuz a hangin' over her wings for she was a young flyin' female.  And I thought to myself
it must be she would fly better with all that golden light a drippin' about her.

Josiah liked her looks first rate.  And he liked the looks of some of the pictures extremely.
There wuz lots of places all full of pictures.  A big collection of water colors, though as
Josiah said and well said, How they could get so many colors out of water wuz a mystery to him.

But my choice out of all the pictures I see, wuz a little one called "The Sands of Dee."  It
wuz "Mary a callin' the cattle home."  The cruel treacherus water wuz a risin' about her round
bare ankles as she stood there amongst the rushes with her little milk-bucket on her arm.

Her pretty innocent face wuz a lookin' off into the shadows, and the last ray of sunset was
a fallin' on her.  Maybe it wuz the pity on't that struck so hard as I looked at it, to know
that the "cruel, crawli'n foam" wuz so soon to creep over the sweet young face and round limbs.
And there seemed to be a shadow of the comin' fate, a sweepin' in on the gray mist behind her.

I stood for some time, and I don't know but longer, a lookin' at it, my Josiah a standin' placidly
behind me, a lookin' over my shoulder and enjoyin' of it too, till the price wuz mentioned.
But at that fearful moment, my pardner seized me by the arm, and walked me so voyalently out
of that store and down the walk that I did not find and recover myself till we stood at the
entrance to Philey street.

And I wuz so out of breath, by his powerful speed, that she didn't look nateral to me, I hardly
recognized Philey.  But Josiah hurried me down Philey and wanted to get my mind offen Mary
Dee I knew, for he says as we come under a sign hangin' down over the road, "Horse Exchange,"
sez he, "What do you say, Samantha, do you spose I could change off the old mair, for a camel
or sunthin'? How would you like a camel to ride?"

I looked at him in speechless witherin' silence, and he went on hurridly, "It would make a
great show in Jonesville, wouldn't it, to see us comin' to meetin' on a camel, or to see us
ridin' in a cutter drawed by one.  I guess I'll see about it, some other time."

And he went on hurridly, and almost incoherently as we see another sign, over the road - oh!
how vollubly he did talk - "Quick, Livery."

"I hate to see folks so dumb conceeted!  Now I don't spose that man has got any hosses much
faster than the old mair."

"'Wing's!'  Shaw!  I don't believe no such thing - a livery on wings.  I don't believe a word
on't.  And you wouldn't ketch me on one on 'em, if they had!"

"'Yet Sing!"' sez he, a lookin' accost the street into a laundry house.  "What do I care if
you do sing?  'Taint of much account if you do any way.  I sing sometimes, I yet sing," says he.

"Sing," sez I in neerly witherin' tone.  "I'd love to hear you sing, I haint yet and I've lived
with you agoin' on 30 years."

"Wall, if you haint heerd me, it is because you are deef," sez he.

But that is jest the way he kep' on, a hurryin' me along, and a talkin' fast to try to get
the price of that picture out of my head.  Anon, and sometimes oftener, we would come to the
word in big letters on signs, or on the fence, or the sides of barns, "Pray."  And sometimes
it would read, "Pray for my wife!"  And Josiah every time he came to the words would stop and
reflect on 'em.

"`Pray!'  What business is it of yourn, whether I pray or not? `Pray for my wife!'  That haint
none of your business."

Sez he, a shakin' his fist at the fence, "'Taint likely I should have a wife without prayin'
for her.  She needs it bad enough," sez he once, as he stood lookin' at it.

I gin him a strange look, and he sez, "You wouldn't like it, would you, if I didn't pray for you?"

"No," sez I, "and truly as you say, the woman who is your wife needs prayer, she needs help,
morn half the time she duz."

He looked kinder dissatisfied at the way I turned it, but he sez, "'Plumbin' done here!'"

"I'd love to know where they are goin' to plum.  I don't see no sign of plum trees, nor no
stick to knock 'em off with."  And agin he sez, "You would make a great 'fuss, Samantha, if
I should say what is painted up right there on that cross piece.  You would say I wuz a swearin'."

Sez I coldly, (or as cold as I could with my blood heated by the voyalence and rapidity of
the walk he had been a leadin' me,) "There is a Van in front of it.  Van Dam haint swearin'."

"You would say it wuz if I used it," sez he reproachfully.  "If I should fall down on the ice,
or stub my toe, and trip up on the meetin' house steps, and I should happen to mention the
name of that street about the same time, you would say I wuz a swearin'."

I did not reply to him; I wouldn't.  And ag'in he hurried me on'ards by some good lookin' bildin's,
and trees, and tavrens, and cottages, and etc., etc., and we come to Caroline street, and Jane,
and Matilda, and lots of wimmen's names.

And Josiah sez, "I'll bet the man that named them streets wuz love sick!"

But he wuzn't no such thing.  It was a father that owned the land, and laid out the streets,
and named 'em for his daughters.  Good old creeter!  I wuzn't goin' to have him run at this
late day, and run down his own streets too.

But ag'in Josiah hurried me on'ards.  And bimeby we found ourselves a standin' in front of
a kind of a lonesome lookin' house, big and square, with tall pillows in front.  It wuz a standin'
back as if it wuz a kinder a drawin' back from company, in a square yard all dark and shady
with tall trees.  And it all looked kinder dusky, and solemn like.  And a bystander a standin'
by told us that it wuz "ha'nted."

Josiah pawed at it, and shawed at the idee of a gost.

But I sez, "There! that is the only thing Saratoga lacked to make her perfectly interestin',
and that is a gost!"

But agin Josiah pawed at the idee, and sez, "There never wuz such a thing as a gost! and never
will be."  And sez he, "what an extraordenary idiot anybody must be to believe in any sech
thing." And ag'in he looked very skernful and high-headed, and once ag'in he shawed.

And I kep' pretty middlin' calm and serene and asked the bystander, when the gost ha'nted,
and where?

And he said, it opened doors and blowed out lights mostly, and trampled up stairs.

"Openin', and blowin', and tramplin'," sez I dreamily.

"Yes," sez the man, "that's what it duz."

And agin Josiah shawed loud.  And agin I kep' calm, and sez I, "I'd give a cent to see it."
And sez I, "Do you suppose it would blow out and trample if we should go in?"

But Josiah grasped holt of my arm and sez, "'Taint safe! my dear Samantha! don't le's go near
the house."

"Why? " sez I coldly, "you say there haint no sech thing as a gost, what are you afraid on?"

His teeth wuz fairly chatterin'.  "Oh! there might be spiders there, or mice, it haint best to go."

I turned silently round and started on, for my companion's looks was pitiful in the extreme.
But I merely observed this, as we wended onwards, "I have always noticed this, Josiah Allen,
that them that shaw the most at sech things, are the ones whose teeth chatter when they come
a nigh 'em, showin' plain that the shawers are really the ones that believe in 'em."

"My teeth chattered," sez he, "because my gooms ache."

"Well," sez I, "the leest said the soonest mended."  And we went on fast ag'in by big houses
and little, and boardin' houses, and boardin' houses, and boardin' houses, and tavrens, and
tavrens, and he kept me a walkin' till my feet wuz most blistered.

I see what his aim wuz; I had recognized it all the hull time.

But as we went up the stairway into our room, perfectly tuckered out, both on us, I sez to
him, in weary axents, "That picture wuz cheap enough, for the money, wuzn't it?"

He groaned aloud.  And sech is my love for that man, that the minute I heard that groan I immegetly
added, "Though I hadn't no idee of buyin' it, Josiah."

Immegetly he smiled warmly, and wuz very affectionate in his demeener to me for as much as
two hours and a half.  Sech is the might of human love.

His hurryin' me over them swelterin' and blisterin' streets, and showin' me all the beauty
and glory of the world, and his conversation had no effect, skercely on my mind.  But what
them hours of frenzied effert could not accomplish, that one still, small groan did.  I love
that man.  I almost worship him, and he me, vise versey, and the same.

We found that Ardelia Tutt had been to see us in our absence.  She had been into our room I
see, for she had dropped one of her mits there.  And the chambermaid said she had been in and
waited for us quite a spell - the young man a waitin' below on the piazza, so I s'posed.

I expect Ardelia wanted to show him off to us and I myself wuz quite anxus to see him, feelin'
worried and oncomfertable about Abram Gee and wantin' to see if this young chap wuz anywhere
nigh as good as Abram.

Well about a hour after we came back, Josiah missed his glasses he reads with.  And we looked
all over the house for 'em, and under the bed, and on the ceilin', and through our trunks and
bandboxes, and all our pockets, and in the Bible, and Josiah's boots, and everywhere.  And
finely, after givin' 'em up as lost, the idee come to us that they might possibly have ketched
on the fringe of Ardelia's shawl, and so rode home with her on it.

So we sent one of the office-boys home with her mit and asked her if she had seen Josiah's
glasses.  And word come back by the boy that she hadn't seen 'em, and she sent word to me to
look on my pardner's head for 'em, and sure enough there we found 'em, right on his foretop,
to both of our surprises.

She sent also by the boy a poem she had wrote that afternoon, and sent word how sorry she wuz
I wuzn't to home to see Mr. Flamburg. But I see him only a day or two after that, and I didn't
like his looks a mite.

But he said, and stuck to it, that his father owned a large bank, that he wuz a banker, and
a doin' a heavy business.

Wall, that raised him dretfully in Ardelia's eyes; she owned up to me that it did.  She owned
to me that she lead always thought she would love to be a Banker's Bride.  She thought it sounded
rich. She said, "banker sounded so different from baker."

I sez to her coolly, that "it wuz only a difference of one letter, and I never wuz much of
a one to put the letter N above any of the others, or to be haughty on havin' it added to,
or diminished from my name."

But she kep' on a goin' with him.  She told me it wuz real romanticle the way he got aquanted
with her.  He see her onbeknown to her one day, when she wuz a writin' a poem on one of the
benches in the park.

"A Poem on a Bench!"

She wuz a settin' on the bench, and a writin' about it, she was a writin' on the bench in two
different ways.  Curius, haint it?

But to resoom.  He immegetly fell in love with her.  And he got a feller who wuz a boardin'
to his boardin' place to interduce him to Ardelia's relative, Mr. Pixley, and Mr. Pixley interduced
him to Ardelia.  He told Ardelia's relatives the same story -  That his father wuz a banker,
that he owned a bank and wuz doin' a heavy business.

Wall, I watched that young chap, and watched him close, and I see there wuz one thing about
him that could be depended on, he wuz truthful.

He seemed almost morbid on the subject, and would dispute himself half a hour, to get a thing
or a story he wuz tellin' jest exactly right.  But he drinked; that I know for I know the symptoms.
Coffee can't blind the eyes of her that waz once Smith, nor peppermint cast a mist before 'em.
My nose could have took its oath, if noses wuz ever put onto a bar of Justice - my nose would
have gin its firm testimony that Bial Flamburg drinked.

And there wuz that sort of a air about him, that I can't describe exactly - a sort of a half
offish, half familier and wholly disagreeable mean, that can be onderstood but not described.
No, you can't picture that liniment, but you can be affected by it. Wall, Bial had it.

And I kep' on a not likin' him, and kep' stiddy onwards a likin' Abram Gee.  I couldn't help
it, nor did'nt want to.  And I looked out constant to ketch him in some big story that would
break him right down in Ardelia's eyes, for I knew if she had been brought up on any one commandment
more'n another, it wuz the one ag'inst lyin'.  She hated lyin'.

She had been brought up on the hull of the commandments but on that one in particeler; she
wuz brung up sharp but good.  But not one lie could I ketch him in.  And he stuck to it, that
his father wuz a banker and doin' a heavy business.

Wall, it kep' on, she a goin' with him through ambition, for I see plain, by signs I knoo,
that she didn't love him half as well as she did Abram.  And I felt bad, dretful bad, to set
still and see Ambition ondoin' of her.  For oft and oft she would speak to me of Bial's father's
bank and the heft of the business he wuz a doin'.

And I finally got so worked up in my mind that I gin a sly hint to Abram Gee, that if he ever
wanted to get Ardelia Tutt, he had better make a summer trip to Saratoga.  I never told Ardelia
what I had done, but trusted to a overrulin' destiny, that seems to enrap babys, and lunatiks,
and soft little wimmen, when their heads get kinder turned by a man, and to Abram's honest
face when she should compare it with Bial Flamburg's, and to Abram's pure, sweet breath with
that mixture of stale cigars, tobacco, beer, and peppermint.

But Abram wrote back to me that his mother wuz a lyin' at the p'int of death with a fever -
that his sister Susan wuz sick a bed with the same fever and couldn't come a nigh her and he
couldn't leave what might be his mother's death-bed.  And he sez, if Ardelia had forgot him
in so short a time, mebby it wuz the best thing he could do, to try and forget her.  Anyway,
he wouldn't leave his dying mother for anything or anybody.

That wuz Abram Gee all over, a doin' his duty every time by bread and humanity.  But he added
a postscript and it wuz wrote in a agitated hand - that jest as soon as his mother got so he
could leave her, he should come to Saratoga.

IX.

JOSIAH 'S FLIRTATIONS.

They say there is a sight of flirtin' done at Saratoga.  I didn't hear so much about it as
Josiah did, naturally there are things that are talked of more amongst men than women.  Night
after night he would come home and tell me how fashionable it wuz, and pretty soon I could
see that he kinder wanted to follow the fashion.

I told him from the first on't that he'd better let it entirely alone.  Says I, "Josiah Allen,
you wouldn't never carry it through successful if you should undertake it -- and then think
of the wickedness on't."

But he seemed sot.  He said "it wuz more fashionable amongst married men and wimmen, than the
more single ones," he said "it wuz dretful fashionable amongst pardners."`

"Wall," says I, "I shall have, nothin' to do with it, and I advise you, if you know when you
are well off, to let it entirely alone."

"Of course," says he, fiercely, "You needn't have nothin' to do with it.  It is nothin' you
would want to foller up.  And I would ruther see you sunk into the ground, or be sunk myself,
than to see you goin' into it.  Why," says he, savagely, "I would tear a man lim from lim,
if I see him a tryin' to flirt with you." (Josiah Allen worships me.)  "But," says he, more
placider like, "men have to do things sometimes, that they know is too hard for their pardners
to do -- men sometimes feel called upon to do things that their pardners don't care about --
that they haint strong enough to tackle.  Wimmen are fragile creeters anyway."

"Oh, the fallacy of them arguments -- and the weakness of 'em.

But I didn't say nothin' only to reiterate my utterance, that "if he went into it, he would
have to foller it up alone, that he musn't expect any help from me."

"Oh no!" says he.  "Oh! certainly not."

His tone wuz very genteel, but there seemed to be sumthin' strange in it.  And I looked at
him pityin'ly over my specks.  The hull idea on it wuz extremely distasteful to me, this talk
about flirtin', and etc., at our ages, and with our stations in the Jonesville meetin' house,
and with our grandchildren.

But I see from day to day that he wuz a hankerin' after it, and I almost made up my mind that
I should have to let him make a trial, knowin' that experience wuz the best teacher, and knowin'
that his morals wuz sound, and he wuz devoted to me, and only went into the enterprize because
he thought it wuz fashionable.

There wuz a young English girl a boardin' to the same place we did.  She dressed some like
a young man, carried a cane, etc.  But she wuz one of the upper 10, and wuz as pretty as a
picture, and I see Josiah had kinder sot his eyes on her as bein' a good one to try his experiment
with.  He thought she wuz beautiful.  But good land!  I didn't care.  I liked her myself. 
But I could see, though he couldn't see it, that she wuz one of the girls who would flirt with
the town pump, or the meetin' house steeple, if she couldn't get nobody else to flirt with.
She wuz born so, but I suppose ontirely unbeknown to her when she wuz born.

Wall, Josiah Allen would set and look at her by the hour -- dretful admirin'.  But good land!
I didn't care.  I loved to look at her myself.  And then too I had this feelin' that his morals
wuz sound.  But after awhile, I could see, and couldn't help seein', that he wuz a tryin' in
his feeble way to flirt with her. And I told him kindly, but firmly, "that it wuz somethin'
that I hated to see a goin' on."

But he says, "Well, dumb it all, Samantha, if anybody goes to a fashionable place, they ort
to try to be fashionable.  'Taint nothin' I want to do, and you ort to know it."

And I says in pityin' axents but firm, "If you don't want to, Josiah, I wouldn't, fashion or
no fashion."

But I see I couldn't convince him, and there happened to be a skercity of men jest then --
and he kep' it up, and it kep' me on the key veav, as Maggie says, when she is on the tenter
hooks of suspense.

I felt bad to see it go on, not that I wuz jealous, no, my foretop lay smooth from day to day,
not a jealous hair in it, not one -- but I felt sorry for my companion.  I see that while the
endurin' of it wuz hard and tejus for him (for truly he was not a addep at the business; it
come tuff, feerful tuff on him), the endin' wuz sure to be harder.  And I tried to convince
him, from a sense of duty, that she wuz makin' fun of him -- he had told me lots of the pretty
things she had said to him -- and out of principle I told him that she didn't mean one word
of 'em.  But I couldn't convince him, and as is the way of pardners, after I had sot the reasen
and the sense before him, and he wouldn't hear to me, why then I had to set down and bear it.
Such is some of the trials of pardners?

Wall, it kep' agoin' on, and a goin' on, and I kep' a hatin' to see it, for if anybody has
got to flirt, which I am far from approvin' of, but if I have got to see it a goin' on, I would
fain see it well done, and Josiah's efforts to flirt wuz like an effort of our old mair to
play a tune on the melodian, no grace in it, no system, nor comfort to him, nor me.

I s'pose the girl got some fun out of it; I hope she did, for if she didn't it wuz a wearisome
job all round.

Wall, a week or so rolled on, and it wuz still in progress.  And one day an old friend of ours,
Miss Ezra Balch, from the east part of Jonesville, come to see me.  She come to Saratoga for
the rheumatiz, and wuz gettin' well fast, and Ezra was gettin' entirely cured of biles, for
which he had come, carbunkles.

Wall, she invited Josiah and me to take a ride with 'em, and we both accepted of it, and at
the appointed time I wuz ready to the minute, down on the piazza, with my brown cotton gloves
on, and my mantilly hung gracefully over my arm.  But at the last minute, Josiah Allen said
"he couldn't go."

I says "Why can't you go?"

"Oh," he says, kinder drawin' up his collar, and smoothin' down his vest, "Oh, I have got another
engagement."

He looked real high-headed, and I says to him:

"Josiah Allen didn't you promise Druzilla Balch that you would go with her and Ezra to-day?"

"Wall yes," says he, "but I can't."

"Why not?" says I.

"Wall, Samantha, though they are well meanin', good people, they haint what you may call fashionable,
they haint the upper 10."

Says I, "Josiah Allen you have fell over 15 cents in my estimation, sense we have begun talkin',
you won't go with 'em because they haint fashionable.  They are good, honest Christian Methodists,
and have stood by you and me many a time, in times of trouble, and now," says I, "you turn
against 'em because they haint fashionable."  Says I, "Josiah Allen where do you think you'll
go to?"

"Oh, probable down through Congress Park, and we may walk up as fur as the Indian Encampment.
I feel kinder mauger to-day, and my corns ache feerful."  (His boots wuz that small that they
wuz sights to behold, sights!)  "We probably shan't walk fur," says he.

I see how 'twuze in a minute.  That English girl had asked him to walk with her, and my pardner
had broken a solemn engagement with Ezra and Druzilla Balch to go a walkin' with her.  I see
how 'twuz, but I sot in silence and one of the big rockin' chairs, and didn't say nothin'.

Finally he says, with a sort of a anxious look onto his foreward:

"You don't feel bad, do you Samantha?  You haint jealous, are you?"

"Jealous!" says I, a lookin' him calmly over from head to feet -- it wuz a witherin' look,
and yet pitiful, that took in the hull body and soul, and weighed 'em in the balances of common
sense, and pity, and justice.  It wuz a look that seemed to envelop him all to one time, and
took him all in, his bald head, his vest, and his boots, and his mind (what he had), and his
efforts to be fashionable, and his trials and tribulations at it, and -- and everything.  I
give him that one long look, and then I says:

"Jealous?  No, I haint jealous."

Then silence rained again about us, and Josiah spoke out (his conscience was a troublin' him),
and he says:

"You know in fashionable life, Samantha, you have to do things which seem unkind, and Ezra,
though a good, worthy man, can't understand these things as I do."

Says I: "Josiah Allen, you'll see the day that you'll be sorry for your treatment of Druzilla
Balch, and Ezra."

"Oh wall," says he, pullin' up his collar, "I'm bound to be fashionable.  While I can go with
the upper 10, it is my duty and my privilege to go with 'em, and not mingle in the lower classes
like the Balches."

Says I firmly, "You look out, or some of them 10 will be the death of you, and you may see
the day that you will be glad to leave 'em, the hull 10 of em, and go back to Druzilla and
Ezra Balch."

But what more words might have passed between us, wuz cut short by the arrival of Ezra and
Druzilla in a good big carriage, with Miss Balch on the back seat, and Ezra acrost from her,
and a man up in front a drivin'.  It wuz a good lookin' sight, and I hastened down the steps,
Josiah disappearin' inside jest as quick as he ketched sight of their heads.

They asked me anxiously "where Josiah wuz and why he didn't come?" And I told 'em, "that Josiah
had told me that mornin' that he felt manger, and he had some corns that wuz a achin'."

So much wuz truth, and I told it, and then moved off the subject, and they seein' my looks,
didn't pursue it any further.  They proposed to go back to their boardin' place, and take in
Deacon Balch, Ezra's brother from Chicago, who wuz stayin' there a few days to recooperate
his energies, and get help for tizick.  So they did.  He wuz a widowed man.  Yes, he was the
widower of Cornelia Balch who I used to know well, a good lookin' and a good actin' man.  And
he seemed to like my appeerance pretty well, though I am fur from bein' the one that ort to say it.

And as we rolled on over the broad beautiful road towards Saratoga Lake, I begun to feel better
in my mind.

The Deacon wuz edifyin' in conversation, and he thought, and said, "that my mind was the heftiest
one that he had ever met, and he had met hundreds and hundreds of 'em."  He meant it, you could
see that, he meant every word he said.  And it wuz kind of comfortin' to hear the Deacon say
so, for I respected the Deacon, and I knew he meant just what he said.

He said, and believed, though it haint so, but the Deacon believed it, "that I looked younger
than I did the day I wuz married."

I told him "I didn't feel so young."

"Wall," he said, "then my looks deceived me, for I looked as young, if not younger."

Deacon Balch is a good, kind, Christian man.

His conversation was very edifyin', and he looked kinder good, and warm-hearted at me out of
his eyes, which wuz blue, some the color of my Josiah's.  But alas!  I felt that though some
comforted and edified by his talk, still, my heart was not there, not there in that double
buggy with 2 seats, but wuz afur off with my pardner. I felt that Josiah Allen wuz a carryin'
my heart with him wherever he wuz a goin'.  Curious, haint it?  Now you may set and smile,
and talk, and seem to be enjoyin' yourself first-rate, with agreeable personages all around
you, and you do enjoy yourself with that part of your nater.  But with it all, down deep under
the laughs, and the bright words, the comfort you get out of the answerin' laughs, the gay
talk, under it all is the steady consciousness that the real self is fur away, the heart, the
soul is fur away, held by some creeter whether he be high, or whether he be low, it don't matter
-- there your heart is, a goin' towards happiness, or a travellin' towards pain as the case
may be -- curious, haint it?

Wall, Ezra and Druzilla wanted to go to the Sulphur Springs way beyend Saratoga Lake, and as
the Deacon wuz agreeable, and I also, we sot out for it, though, as we all said, it wuz goin'
to be a pretty long and tegus journey for a hot day.  But we went along the broad, beautiful
highway, by the high, handsome gates of the Racing Park, down, down, by handsome houses and
shady woods, and fields of bright-colored wild flowers on each side of the road, down to the
beautiful lake, acrost it over the long bridge, and then into the long, cool shadows of the
bendin' trees that bend over the road on each side, while through the green boughs, jest at
our side we could ketch a sight of the blue, peaceful waters, a lyin' calm and beautiful jest
by the side of us -- on, on, through the long, sheltered pathway, out into the sunshine for
a spell, with peaceful fields a layin' about us, and peaceful cattle a wanderin' over 'em,
and then into the shade agin, till at last we see a beautiful mountin', with its head held
kinder high, crowned with ferns and hemlocks, and its feet washed by the cool water of the
beautiful lake.

The shadows of this mountin', tree crowned, lay on the smooth, placid wave, and a white sail
boat wuz a comin' round the side on't, and floatin' over the green, crystal branches, and golden
shadows.  It wuz a fair seen, seen for a moment, and then away we went into the green shadows
of the woods again, round a corner, and here we wuz, at the Sulphur Springs.

It wuz a quiet peaceful spot.  The house looked pleasant, and so did the Landlord, and Landlady,
and we dismounted and walked through a long clean hall, and went out onto a back piazza and
sot down.  And I thought as I sot there, that I would be glad enough to set there, for some
time.  Everything looked so quiet and serene.  The paths leadin' up the hills in different
directions, out into the green woods, looked quiet; the pretty, grassy backyard leadin' down
to the water side looked green and peaceable, and around all, and beyond all, wuz the glory
of the waters.  They lay stretched out beautiful and in heavenly calm, and the sun, which wuz
low in the West, made a gold path acrost 'em, where it seemed as if one could walk over only
a little ways, into Perfect Repose.  The Lake somehow looked like a glowin' pavement, it didn't
look like water, but it seemed like broad fields of azure and palest lavender, and pinky grey,
and pearly white, and every soft and delicate color that water could be crystalized into. 
And over all lay the glowin', tender sunset skies -- it wuz a fair seen.  And even as I looked
on in a almost rapped way, the sun come out from behind a soft cloud, and lay on the water
like a pillow of fire jest as I dream that pillow did, that went ahead of my old 4 fathers.

The rest on 'em seemed to be more intent on the lemonade with 2 straws in 'em.  I didn't make
no fuss.  They are nice, clean folks, I make no doubt.  I wouldn't make no fuss and tell on
the hired man -- women of the house have enough to worry 'em anyway. But he had dropped some
straws into our tumblers, every one on 'em, I dare presume to say they had been a fillin' straw
ticks.  I jest took mine out in a quiet way, and throwed 'em to one side. The rest on 'em,
I see, and it wuz real good in 'em, drinked through 'em, as we used to at school.  It wuz real
good in Druzilla, and Ezra, and also in the Deacon.  It kinder ondeared the hull on 'em to
me.  I hope this won't be told of, it orto be kep -- for he wuz a goodnatured lookin' hired
man, black, but not to blame for that -- and good land! what is a straw? -- anyway they wuz clean.

There wuz some tents sot up there in the back yard, lookin' some as I s'pose our old 4 fathers
tents did, in the pleasant summer times of old.  And I asked a bystander a standin' by, whose
tents they wuz, and he said they wuz Free Thinkers havin' a convention.

And I says, "How free?"

And he said "they wuz great cases to doubt everything, they doubted whether they wuz or not,
and if they wuz or when, and if so, why?"

And he says, "won't you stay to-night over and attend the meetin'?"

And I says, "What are they goin' to teach tonight?"

And he says, "The Whyness of the What"

I says, "I guess that is too deep a subject for me to tackle," and says I, "Don't they believe
anything easier than that?"

And he says, "They don't believe anything.  That is their belief -- to believe nothin'."

"Nothin'!" says I.

"Yes," says he, "Nothin'."  And, says he, "to-morrer they are goin' to prove beyond any question,
that there haint any God, nor anything, and never wuz anything."

"Be they?" sez I.

"Yes," says he, "and won't you come and be convinced?"

I looked off onto the peaceful waters, onto the hills that lay as the mountains did about Jerusalem,
onto the pillow of fire that seemed to hold in it the flames of that light that had lighted
the old world onto the mornin' of the new day, -- and one star had come out, and stood tremblin'
over the brow of the mountain and I thought of that star that had riz so long time ago, and
had guided the three wise men, guided 'em jest alike from their three different homes, entirely
unbeknown to each other, guidin' 'em to the cradle where lay the infant Redeemer of the world,
so long foretold by bard and prophet.  I looked out onto the heavenly glory of the day, and
then inside into my heart, that held a faith jest as bright and undyin' as the light of that
star -- and I says, "No, I guess I won't go and be convinced."

Wall, we riz up to go most immediately afterwerds, and the Deacon (he is very smart) observed:

"How highly tickled and even highlarious the man seemed in talkin' about there not bein' any
future."  And he says, "It wuz a good deal like a man laughin' and clappin' his hands to see
his house burn down"

And I sez, "it wuz far wurse, for his home wouldn't stand more'n a 100 years or so, and this
home he wuz a tryin' to destroy, wuz one that would last through eternity."  "But," says I,
"it hain't built by hands, and I guess their hands hain't strong enough to tear it down, nor
high enough to set fire to it."

And the Deacon says, "Jest so, Miss Allen, you spoke truthfully, and eloquent."  (The Deacon
is very smart.)

When we got into the buggy to start, the Deacon says, "I would like to resoom the conversation
with you, Josiah Allen's wife, a goin' back."

And Druzilla spoke right out and says, "I will set on the front seat by Ezra."  I says, "Oh
no, Druzilla, I can hear the Deacon from where I sot before."

But the Deacon says, Talkin' loud towards night always offected his voice onpleasantly, mebby
Druzilla and he had better change seats.

Again I demurred.  And then Druzilla said she must set by Ezra, she wanted to tell him sumthin'
in confidence.

And so it wuz arraigned, for I felt that I wuz not the one to come between pardners, no indeed.
The road laid peacefuller and beautifuller than ever, or so it seemed under the sunset glory
that sort o' hung round it.  Jest about half way through the woods we met the English girl,
a stridin' along alone, each step more'n 3 feet long, or so it seemed to me.  There wuz a look
of health, and happy determination on her forwerd as she strided rapidly by.

I would have fain questioned her concernin' my pardner, as she strode by, but before I could
call out, or begon to her she wuz far in the rearwerd, and goin' in a full pressure and in
a knot of several miles an hour.

Wall, from that minute I felt strange and curious.  And though Druzilla and Ezra was agreeable
and the Deacon edifyin', I didn't seem to feel edified, and the most warm-hearted looks didn't
seem to warm my heart none, it wuz oppressed with gloomy forebodings of, Where wuz my pardner?
They had laid out to set out together. Had they sot?  This question was a goverin' me, and
the follerin' one: If they had sot out together, where wuz my pardner, Josiah Allen, now? 
As I thought these feerful thoughts, instinctively I turned around to see if I could see a
trace of his companion in the distance.  Yes, I could ketch a faint glimpse of her as she wuz
mountin' a diclivity, and stood for an instant in sight, but long before even, she disopeered
agin, for her gait wuz tremendous, and at a rate of a good many knots she wuz a goin', that
I knew.  And the fearful thought would rise, Josiah Allen could not go more than half a knot,
if he could that.  He wuz a slow predestinatur any way, and then his corns was feerful, and
never could be told -- and his boots had in 'em the elements of feerful sufferin'.  It wuz
all he could do when he had 'em on to hobble down to the spring, and post-office.  Where? where
wuz he? And she a goin' at the rate of so many knots.

Oh! the agony of them several minutes, while these thoughts wuz rampagin through my destracted
brain.

Oh! if pardners only knew the agony they bring onto their devoted companions, by their onguarded
and thoughtless acts, and attentions to other females, gin without proper reseerch and precautions,
it would draw their liniments down into expressions of shame and remorse.  Josiah wouldn't
have gone with her if he had known the number of knots she wuz a goin', no, not one step --
then why couldn't he have found out the number of them knots -- why couldn't he?  Why can't
pardners look ahead and see to where their gay attentions, their flirtations that they call
mild and innercent, will lead 'em to?  Why can't they realize that it haint only themselves
they are injurin', but them that are bound to 'em by the most sacred ties that folks can be
twisted up in?  Why can't they realize that a end must come to it, and it may be a fearful
and a shameful one, and if it is a happiness that stops, it will leave in the heart when happiness
gets out, a emptiness, a holler place, where like as not onhappiness will get in, and mebby
stay there for some time, gaulin' and heart-breakin' to the opposite pardner to see it go on?

If it is indifference, or fashion, or anything of that sort, why it don't pay none of the time,
it don't seem to me it duz, and the end will be emptier and hollerer then the beginnin'.

In the case of my pardner it wuz fashion, nothing but the butterfly of fashion he wuz after,
to act in a high-toned, fashionable manner, like other fashionable men.  And jest see the end
on't why he had brought sufferin' of the deepest dye onto his companion, and what, what hed
he brought onto himself -- onto his feet?

Oh! the agony of them several moments while them thoughts was a rackin' at me.  The moments
swelled out into a half hour, it must have been a long half hour, before I see far ahead, for
the eyes of love is keen - a form a settin' on the grass by the wayside, that I recognized
as the form of my pardner.  As we drew nearer we all recognized the figure -- but Josiah Allen
didn't seem to notice us.  His boots was off, and his stockin's, and even in that first look
I could see the agony that was a rendin' them toes almost to burstin'.  Oh, how sorry I felt
for them toes!  He was a restin' in a most dejected and melancholy manner on his hand, as if
it wuz more than sufferin' that ailed him -- he looked a sufferer from remorse, and regret,
and also had the air of one whom mortification has stricken.

He never seemed to sense a thing that wuz passin' by him, till the driver pulled up his horses
clost by him, and then he looked up and see us.  And far be it from me to describe the way
he looked in his lowly place on the grass.  There wuz a good stun by him on which he might
have sot, but no, he seemed to feel too mean to get up onto that stun; grass, lowly, unassumin'
grass, wuz what seemed to suit him best, and on it he sot with one of his feet stretched out
in front of him.

Oh! the pitifulness of that look he gin us, oh! the meakinness of it.  And even, when his eye
fell on the Deacon a settin' by my side, oh! the wild gleam of hatred, and sullen anger that
glowed within his orb, and revenge!  He looked at the Deacon, and then at his boots, and I
see the wild thought wuz a enterin' his sole, to throw that boot at him.  But I says out of
that buggy the very first thing the words I have so oft spoke to him in hours of danger:

"Joisiah, be calm!"

His eye fell onto the peaceful grass agin, and he says: "Who hain't a bein' calm?  I should
say I wuz calm enough, if that is what you want."

But, oh, the sullenness of that love.

Says Ezra, good man -- he see right through it all in a minute, and so did Druzilla and the
Deacon -- says Ezra, "Get up on the seat with the driver, Josiah Allen, and drive back with us."

"No," says Josiah, "I have no occasion, I am a settin' here," (looking round in perfect agony)
"I am a settin' here to admire the scenery."

Then I leaned over the side of the buggy, and says I, "Josiah Allen, do you get in and ride,
it will kill you to walk back; put on your boots if you can, and ride, seein' Ezra is so perlite
as to ask you."

"Yes, I see he is very perlite, I see you have set amongst very perlite folks, Samantha," says
he, a glarin' at Deacon Balch as if he would rend him from lim to lim, "But as I said, I have
no occasion to ride, I took off my boots and stockin's merely -- merely to pass away time.
You know at fashionable resorts," says he, "it is sometimes hard for men to pass away time."

Says I in low, deep accents, "Do put on your stockin's, and your boots, if you can get 'em
on, which I doubt, but put your stockin's on this minute, and get in, and ride."

"Yes," says Ezra, "hurry up and get in, Josiah Allen, it must be dretful oncomfortabe a settin'
down there in the grass."

"Oh, no!" says Josiah, and he kinder whistled a few bars of no tune that wuz ever heard on,
or ever will be heard on agin, so wild and meloncholy it wuz -- "I sot down here kind o' careless.
I thought seein' I hadn't much on hand to do at this time o' year, I thought I would like to
look at my feet -- we hain't got a very big lookin' glass in our room."

Oh, how incoherent and over-crazed he was a becomin'!  Who ever heard of seein' anybody's feet
in a lookin' glass -- of dependin' on a lookin' glass for a sight on 'em?  Oh, how I pitied
that man! and I bent down and says to him in soothin' axents: "Josiah Allen, to please your
pardner you put on your stockin's and get into this buggy.  Take your boots in your hand, Josiah,
I know you can't get 'em on, you have walked too far for them corns.  Corns that are trampled
on, Josiah Allen, rise up and rends you, or me, or anybody else who owns 'em or tramples on
'em.  It hain't your fault, nobody blames you.  Now get right in."

"Yes, do," says the Deacon.

Oh! the look that Josiah Allen gin him.  I see the voyolence of that look, that rested first
on the Deacon, and then on that, boot.

And agin I says, "Josiah Allen."  And agin the thought of his own feerful acts, and my warnin's
came over him, and again mortification seemed to envelop him like a mantilly, the tabs goin'
down and coverin' his lims -- and agin he didn't throw that boot.  Agin Deacon Balch escaped
oninjured, saved by my voice, and Josiah's inward conscience, inside of him.

Wall, suffice it to say, that after a long parley, Josiah Allen wuz a settin' on the high seat
with the driver, a holdin' his boots in his hand, for truly no power on earth could have placed
them boots on Josiah Allen's feet in the condition they then wuz.

And so he rode on howewards, occasionally a lookin' down on the Deacon with looks that I hope
the recordin' angel didn't photograph, so dire, and so revengeful, and jealous, and -- and
everything, they wuz.  And ever, after ketchin' the look in my eye, the look in his'n would
change to a heart-rendin' one of remorse, and sorrow, and shame for what he had done.  And
the Deacon, wantin' to be dretful perlite to him, would ask him questions, and I could see
the side of Josiah's face, all glarin' like a hyena at the sound of his voice, and then he
would turn round and ossume a perlite genteel look as he answered him, and then he glare at
me in a mad way every time I spoke to the Deacon, and then his mad look would change, even
to one of shame and meakinness.  And he in his stockin' feet, and a pertendin' that he didn't
put his boots on, because it wuzn't wuth while to put 'em on agin so near bed-time.  And he
that sot out that afternoon a feelin' so haughty, and lookin' down on Ezra and Druzilla, and
bein' brung back by 'em, in that condition -- and bein' goured all the time by thoughts of
the ignominious way his flirtin' had ended, by her droppin' him by the side of the road, like
a weed she had trampled on too hardly.  And a bein' gourded deeper than all the rest of his
agonies, by a senseless jealousy of Deacon Balch -- and a thinkin' for the first time in his
life, what it would be, if her affections, that had been like a divine beacon to him all his
life, if that flame should ever go out, or ever flicker in its earthly socket -- oh, those
thoughts that he had seemed to consider in his own mad race for fashion -- oh, how that sass
that had seemed sweet to him as a gander, oh how bitter and poisonous it wuz to partake of
as a goose. 

The sun was very low and, increasingly fell into the water quickly, putting behind him the whole
horizon. The wind freshened, the island was of purple. Because of the space passed me with a big
bird flying lazy: it was the eagle that came to the shelter to the tower ... The sea mists rose slowly.
He soon saw himself as only white foam scallop around island ...
Suddenly, over my head, came a great surge of quiet birth.

Was on the lighthouse. Leaving the island in darkness, the light beam would fall far offshore,
and there I was surrounded by darkness, under those great light waves that just splashed me to step
... But the wind was freshening. It was necessary to pick up. Groping closed the door and ran
thick iron bars, then and always groping, climbing an iron ladder, which trembled and sounded
with my steps and reached the top of the lighthouse. Of course, there they had light. Imagine
a giant lamp Jail, six rows of lighters, around which revolve slowly the walls of the lantern, a
huge enclosed by glass lens, others open to a large fixed window that
preserves the wind to the flame .. .

Upon entering dazzled me.

These coppers, these tins, these white metal reflectors, these curved
glass walls that turn with large blue circles, all that mirage, that whole
pile of lights, me dizzy for a moment. Yet , my eyes gradually got used
to it, I concluded by sitting at the foot of the lamp, next to the
lighthouse keeper who read his Plutarch aloud, for fear of falling
asleep.

There were, the darkness, the abyss. In the balcony that surrounds
the window, the wind howling like a madman running. Creaks lighthouse, the
sea bream. At the end of the island in the surf, waves simulate cannon
firing.

Sometimes an invisible finger touches the glass: a night bird attracted to
light, and crashing his head against the glass. Within the flashlight
shining and warm, nothing but the constant crackle of the flame,
the noise of falling oil drop by drop, and the chain from unwinding,
and a monotonous voice that intones the life of Demetrius Phalerian.

* * * * * middle of the night, rose the lighthouse keeper, last reviewed their matches, and went
down. On the stairs we stumbled with the colleague in the second quarter, who was up rubbing
his eyes, he gave the pumpkin and Plutarch. Then when we went to bed, we entered a time in
the back room, made a mess of strings, heavy weights, tin deposits, hawser, and there, in the light of
oil lamp, the lighthouse keeper wrote in the great book of the lighthouse open
constantly. Midnight. Ship to the horizon view. Heavy seas. Tempest. THE
AGONY OF THE GOLETA "light" mistral Since we launched the other night
to the coast of Corsica, let me refer you to them a sad story that
sea fishermen often speak over there in the evening, and about which
has provided me the chance very interesting data. two or three years
ago it occurred. paddled in the sea of Sardinia, accompanied by seven
or eight policemen from the sea.

Painful journey for a novice!

Throughout the month of March we had not enjoyed a single good day. The east wind we had fought fiercely
and the sea abonanzaba. One evening, which capeábamos the storm, our ship took refuge at the entrance
of the Strait of Bonifacio, in the midst of an archipelago of islets. His appearance was reassuring
large bare rocks, inhabited by birds, some wormwood bushes, thickets of mastic, and here and there
in the mud some logs that were beginning to rot, but, in my belief, for
the night, these rocks were preferable sinister in the cabin of an
old boat half filled, where the waves came as Peter for his house,
and with it we had to make.

As soon as we landed and while the sailors lit a fire to cook fish
soup called me the pattern, and showing a small white stone wall,
lost in the mists at the end of the island, he said: - Will you come
to the cemetery? - A cemetery, Lionetti pattern!

Well, where are we? - In the Lavezzi islands, sir.

Here were buried the six hundred men of the frigate Light, in the very
place that was lost ten years ago ... Poor people! They are much visited
and fortunately we came to tell us good morning, since we're on it ...
- With pleasure on my part, master. * * * * * What sadness breathes
the cemetery of the Light!

... I see him still, with its low brick wall, its rusty iron gate
and difficult to open, with hundreds of black crosses hidden in the
grass.

Neither a crown of evergreens, or a memory, anything!

... Ah, unhappy abandoned dead, how cold it must feel in his grave coincidence! One moment we were
there knees. The master read aloud. Huge schooners, the only guardians of the cemetery, flew over
our heads with confusing their hoarse cries the cries of the sea.

When it was over to pray, sadly back toward the corner where the boat was moored. They wasted no time sailors
during our absence. We found a blazing bonfire guarded by a rock and that smoked pot. We sat in
a circle, with feet together by the fire, and soon had everyone on
their knees, in a red clay pot, two slices of brown bread with lots of
broth. No one spoke during lunch: we were wet, we had hunger, and also the
proximity of the cemetery ... Yet to leave the pots, lit our pipes and
started to chat a bit.

Naturally, the topic of our conversation was the Light. - But tell me, how the disaster occurred?
- Asked the master, who with his head in his hands, looked at the fire thoughtfully. - That how
the disaster occurred? - good old Lionetti He answered, sighing bitterly
.-- Ah, sir, nobody in the world could say.

All we know is that Light, full of troops to the Crimea, had sailed
from Toulon yesterday afternoon, in bad weather.

Still night, the storm began to get worse.

Wind, rainfall, sea rowdy as ever.

In the morning the wind subsided a bit, but the sea was still as fierce, and all that, a bloody
haze of the devil that was impossible to distinguish a lantern on your doorstep. You can not even
imagine, sir, what traitors are those mists. That nothing matters,
no one takes my head that the Light had lost the helm of dawn, because,
it was dense fog, without a breakdown, the captain had not come to
crash here.

He was an expert sailor, whom everyone knew.

He had commanded the naval station in Corsica for three years and
knew the coast as well as I do not know anything else. - And what
time is supposed to hit the Light? - It had to be at noon, yes, sir
, at noon ... But gad! with the sea mist, that noon was not lighter
than a dark night as pitch ... A Coast Customs told me that day, having
left his house to secure the shutters, close to half past eleven,
a gust of wind took his cap, and exposing himself to be led by the
surf, he began run after it on all fours along the beach.

You will understand that the police do not spare the money and a cap is expensive. Well, it seems
that in lifting a head when our man was very close to him, in the fog, high board a ship fleeing a
capella, Lavezzi leeward islands. This ship was going so fast that the Customs barely had time to see
it well.

However, it is thought to be the Light, as half an hour later the
pastor of the islands heard in these rocks ... But just coming here
the pastor that I speak to you, he will tell the event ... Good morning,
Palombo!

... Come warm up a little fear not, man. Timidly approached us a hooded man, whom I saw from before
prowling around our campfire, and which was taken by one of the crew,
not knowing that one pastor had on the island.

It was an old leper, almost completely idiotic, attacked by some unknown
disease that made her lips scorbutic a big nose, who could not look
without disgust.

Had great difficulty to make him understand what it was. Then, rising with a finger lip sick,
the old man told us that, indeed, from his hut he heard that day, around noon, an ugly crack
in the rocks. As the whole island was covered by water, there was no able to leave, and only
the next day was when he opened the door, saw the coast filled with
debris and corpses washed up there by the sea.

Terrified, he fled in haste to his boat to go to Bonifacio to find people. He sat the pastor,
overcome having said so much, and the pattern resumed his speech: - Yes, sir, this poor old man was
he who warned us. I was almost mad with fear, and since then has
the birds head.

The truth is that there was reason for it ... Imagine hundred dead bodies on the sand, mixed
with wood chips and scraps of fabric ... Poor Light!

... The sea had suddenly
crushed and shattered in such a way that the pastor Palombo has barely been able
to find among all the residues with which to make a fence for his
hut ... As for men, almost all disfigured, horribly mutilated ...
inspired pity to see them clinging to each other, in clusters ...
Here were the captain in dress uniform, the chaplain with the stole
around his neck, in a corner between two boulders, a boy with eyes
open ... seemed still alive, but no! It was decided that nobody else
got rid ... At this point, the pattern is interrupted, shouting: -
Beware, Nardi, turns off the light!

Nardi threw it into the brazier two or three pieces of tarred planks, to be inflamed, and Lionetti
continued: - The saddest part of this story is this: Three weeks before the disaster, a small
sloop, which went to the Crimea, as well as the Light, was wrecked in the same way and at almost
the same site, except that this time we could save the crew of engineers and twenty soldiers aboard ...
Clearly, those poor drawing pens were not in his element! They were led to Bonifacio and
stayed two days with us in the marina ... After it dried well and stood up, good night, good luck!
Returned to Toulon, where they returned to be shipped to Crimea! ... Do you not guess in what
ship? ... In the Light, sir ... We saw all twenty, lying among the dead, in the place where
we are now ... I myself met a sergeant pretty thin mustache, a dandy
in Paris, who had stayed at my house and had made us laugh all the
time with their stories ... When found there, it broke my heart ...
Ah, Holy Mother ... And in saying this, the honest Lionetti shook,
stirred the ashes of his pipe and crawled in his capotón, giving me
good night ... For some time, continued to speak softly sailors ...
Then, one after another, went out the pipes ... No one said a word
more ... Pastor funky old ... And I was only dreaming I awake in the
middle of the crew asleep.

* * * * * Impressed by the mournful tale he had heard, I tried to
reconstruct in imagination the deceased and the poor ship history
this agony whose only witnesses were the birds schooners.

Some details that caught my attention, the captain in dress uniform, stole the Chaplain, twenty
soldiers of engineers, ayudáronme to find all the details of the drama ... I saw the frigate
set sail from Toulon, at dusk ... Sale of the port. There swells and gale-force wind, but the captain
is a brave sailor, and everyone is calm on board ... At dawn, the mist rises
from the sea. Begin all anxious. All the crew is on deck. The captain
did not leave the poop ... In the steerage, where they stuck the
soldiers, the darkness is complete, the atmosphere is warm.

Some are sick, lying on their mats. The vessel header horribly can not stand. Talking cliques
sitting on the floor, hugging the banks, you need to shout to be heard. Some are beginning
to be frightened ... It is not the case for less! Wrecks are common in these
parts, if not, let them say the "tracer", and what they mean is to
scare anyone.

Especially, your first sergeant, a Parisian who is always joking, put chicken meat with their
chanzonetas. - A wreck! ... Well, if it is the funniest thing a shipwreck. We left the pass with
a cold bath, and then lead us to Bonifacio, to eat blackbirds in
Lionetti master's house. And " tracer "laughs you laugh ... Suddenly
you hear a crunch ... What is that? What?

... - The rudder is gone - says a draft of water sailor, which runs across the deck. - Bon voyage!
- Sergeant yells that crazy, but This is no longer excite laughter. Great commotion on the bridge.
The fog prevented from seeing.

The ratings go from one place to another in horror, groping ... There is no rudder! Unable to
maneuver ... The Light, off course, run as fast as the wind ... This is when you watch the customs,
are the eleven-thirty. A bow of the frigate sounds a gun ... The breakers, the breakers! ...
All concluded: there is no hope, goes straight to the coast ... The captain descended to his cabin
... After a moment, resumed his place on deck in full uniform ...
Spruce wanted to die.

In the steerage referred anxious soldiers, without question ... The patients seek up ... sargentito
no longer the laughing ... Then the door opens and appears on the threshold of the chaplain
with his stole, saying: - On my knees, my children all obey. With thundering voice, the priest began
the prayers for the dying.

Ensues suddenly a tremendous shock, a scream, only one, a loud cries,
arms extended, hands symbol, eyes lost in which is reflected in the
speed of lightning the tragic vision of death ... Mercy!

All night I the same, dreaming, remembering, ten years of the event,
the soul of the poor ship whose remains surrounded me.

In the distance, in the Strait, the storm raged, the storm, the flame of the fire bowed down
on either side with the gusts of wind, and heard our boat danced on
the rocks, cracking the ropes. THE CUSTOMS An old craft of customs, half-covered,
was the Emilia, Porto-Vecchio, on board which made that trip to the
Lavezzi Islands gloomy. To shelter it from wind, waves and rain,
there was only one tarred small pavilion, large enough to contain barely
a table and two bunk beds. With such meager resources, see our sailors deserve
the weather looks bad. dripping faces, blouses deployed steaming water
as linen hung out to dry in an oven , and the unfortunate passing
of winter and for days, the nights inclusive, huddled in their seats
wet, shivering between unhealthy dampness, because he could not light
a fire on board, and sometimes it was difficult to reach the shore
... Neither one of these men complained.

In the toughest time, always with the same serenity
I saw the same good humor.

And yet, how sad life of those police officers from the sea!

Married almost all of them, with wife and children on the ground, remain for months and separated
children tacking so dangerous for those costs, fed moldy bread and
onions wild.

Never drink wine, never eat meat, because meat and wine, expensive cost, and his salary is only five
hundred francs a year! Imagine if you will be dark in the shack down
there in the navy, and if children will be well shod! ... It does not matter!
All these people seem happy with their lot. A stern, in front of the
cabin was a large bucket full of rain water, where the crew quench
thirst, and I remember that embarrassed the last crop, each one of
those poor devils shook his bowl with ah! satisfaction, an expression
of being so funny and endearing.

The one who showed more joy and satisfaction to all of Bonifacio was a natural, roasted, small
and stocky, who was called Palombo.

This time we spent singing even in the midst of the largest temporary . When the waves took the
color of lead, when the dark sky by the closure often we filled the hail and sale all the storm
was coming, then, between the absolute silence and anxiety on board began to hum the calm voice
of Palombo: No, sir, is a great honor. Liset is honest and not to faith ... It stays in the
village ... a. .. And many that were the gusts that made the sails
creaking, shaking and flooding the boat, he still heard the song
of the Customs, where a seagull balanced on the crest of the waves.

The wind was accompanied at times with
excessive force, and could not hear the words, but after every stroke
of the sea, the murmur dripping water, constantly could hear the chorus
of the song: Liset is honest and not to faith ... It stays in the village
... a. .. But there came a day of strong wind and rain, which already I
did not hear. It was so extraordinary case, I took the head of the
cabin: - Hey, Palombo!

Do not sing today?

Palombo did not respond.

He was still lying in your bank. I approached him. Castañeteábanle teeth,
the mouth was trembling all over. - You have a puncture - I was told his
fellow afflicted. They call it a stab puncture side, pleurisy.

This great closure leaden, dripping water that boat, that poor feverish wrapped in an old rubber coat
that shone in the rain like a fur seal: I have never seen anything more dismal. The cold, wind and the
swaying of the waves quickly worsen his illness the poor customs.

I undertook the delirium and needed to dock. After much time and no small efforts, we at dusk in
a barren and silent ensenadita, encouraged only by the circular flight
of some birds.

On the beach could see, erguíanse high cliffs, intricate maze of green shrubs, dark green and evergreen.
Down by the water, a little white house, shuttered gray, was the post of Customs. In the midst
of the desert, that building the state, with numbers as a uniform
cap, produced a disagreeable impression of unspeakable distress.

The poor Palombo was landed there. Sad asylum for the sick! Customs found the preparing to feed
the fireside, with his wife and children.

All those people had pale faces, yellow, large eyes shaded by a fever. The mother, still young,
with a baby in her arms, shivered when he spoke to us. - It is a lethal place - I whispered the inspector
.-- We feel the need to relieve our customs every two years. Marsh fever kills them. However, they
wanted to go look for a modest fee.

To find the nearest Sartène had to go up, ie, six or eight miles away.
How do you manage?

Our sailors were completely
exhausted with fatigue, and could not send one of the children so
far.

Then the woman, leaning out, called: - Cecco! ... Cecco! And in came a very sturdy strapping
young man, a true hunter type of forbidden or bandito, with his brown
wool hat and goat hair coat .

Upon landing I had already noticed him, seeing him sitting at the
door with red pipe between his teeth and a gun between his legs, but
I do not know why, had fled at our approach.

Perhaps he thought police were with us.

When he entered the customs blushed a bit. - Is my cousin - told
us .-- There is no fear of it being lost in the thickets.

Said to him after a few words in a low voice, pointing to the patient.
Bowed without replying man , whistled to his dog and ran at full
speed, rifle on shoulder, leaping from rock to rock with great strides.

Durante, this time, the children, who seemed
terrified by the presence of the inspector, concluded soon to eat
the chestnuts and white cheese.

And always water, just water on the table!

However, so well had been a drink of wine to small! Ah, misery! Finally, the mother went upstairs
to bed, the father, lighting the lamp, he went to inspect the coast, and we continue to ensure
our patient, which turned in his bed as if he were still at sea, buffeted by the waves. To slake
his puncture, heated stones and bricks, putting them on the side. Once or twice, as I approached
his bed, the poor man met me, and to thank me laboriously hand held out a paw so hot and scratchy as one
of those bricks removed from the fire. sad evening!

Outside
the temporary upsurge end of the day, and it meant a crash, a volley,
an anchorage of foam, the battle between the rocks and water.

A gust of
wind offshore occasionally penetrated into the creek and enveloped
our home.

He knew by the sudden increase in the flames, which lit up suddenly
the sullen faces of the sailors, grouped around the fireplace watching
the fire with the placid expression that the habit of the beautiful
views and vast horizons .

Also, sometimes, Palombo He complained softly.

Then all eyes turned towards the dark corner, where the poor fellow
was in the throes of death, far from his family and helpless, and heartbroken
breasts, big sighs could be heard . That is all that inspired those
maritime workers, patients and sweet, the sense of his own misfortune.

Nothing riots or strikes.

Only a sigh! However, I believe. Passing one of them in front of me to throw a beam of wood on the
fire, he said softly and moved: - You see, sir, that in our profession is sometimes suffer many
sorrows! THE OLD - What's that, Uncle Azam? A letter? - Yes, sir ...
a letter that came from Paris. And a little proud Azam was the good
guy that the letter came from Paris!

I do not.

Something told me that this Parisian Jean-Jacques Street, falling on
my table so suddenly and so early, going to waste my entire morning. I
was not wrong, as you can judge for yourselves.

It read: * * * * * "My friend, I need to do me a favor. Close your mill for a day, and go at once
to Eyguières, a lugarón that is three or four miles of your residence,
a walk, as they say.

When you arrive, ask for the convent of the orphans. After the monastery,
you'll see a one-story house contains gray shutters and a little
garden behind.

Sign in without knocking, the door is always open, and when you enter gives many calls out: -
Good morning, good people! I am a friend of Mauritius .-- Then you will see two old people, oh! but old, very
old, archiviejos, lie down arms from the back of their big armchairs, and hug for me, wholeheartedly,
as if they were up to you. After you speak, they ask for me, and
I will be the only topic of conversation a thousand chocheces will
tell you that you must listen without laughing.

  But," sez I, "you
will never go into that undertakin' with my consent, Josiah Allen."

"Why," sez he, "it would be a beautiful recreation; so uneek."

But at that minute Miss Flamm gin the order to turn round and start for the Moon, or that is
how I understood her, and I whispered to Josiah and sez, "She means to go in the buggy, for
the land's sake!"

And Josiah sez, "Wall, I haint a goin' and you haint.  I won't let you go into anythin' so
dangerus.  She will probably drive into a baloon before long, and go up in that way, but jest
before she drives in, you and I will get out, Samantha, if we have to walk back."

"I never heard of anybody goin' up in a baloon with two horses and a buggy," sez I.

"Wall, new things are a happenin' all the time, Samantha.  And I heard a feller a talkin' about
it yesterday.  You know they are a havin' the big political convention here, and he said, (he
wuz a real cute chap too,) he said, 'if the wind wasted in that convention could be utilized
by pipes goin' up out of the ruff of that buildin' where it is held,' he said, 'it would take
a man up to the moon.'  I heerd him say it.  And now, who knows but they have got it all fixed.
There wuz dretful windy speeches there this mornin'.  I hearn 'em, and I'll bet that is her
idee, of bein' the first one to try it; she is so fashionable.  But I haint a goin' up in no
sech a way."

"No," sez I.  "Nor I nuther.  It would be fur from my wishes to be carried up to the skies
on the wind of a political convention. "Though," sez I reasonably, "I haint a doubt that there
wuz sights, and sights of it used there."

But jest at this minute Miss Flamm got through talkin' with her relatives about the road, and
settled down to caressin' the dog ag'in, and Josiah hadn't time to remark any further, only
to say, "Watch me, Samantha, and when I say jump, jump."

And then we sot still but watchful.  And Miss Flamm kissed the dog several times and pressed
him to her heart that throbbed full of such a boundless love for him.  And he lifted his head
and snapped at a fly, and barked at my companion with a renewed energy, and showed his intellect
and delightful qualities in sech remarkable ways, that filled Miss Flamm's soul deep with a
proud joy in him. And then he went to sleep a layin, down in her lap, a mashin' down the delicate
lace and embroidery and beads.  He had been a eating the beads, I see him gnaw off more than
two dozen of 'em, and I called her attention to it, but she said, "The dear little darlin'
had to have some such recreation."  And she let him go on with it, a mowin' 'em down, as long
as he seemed to have a appetite for 'em. And ag'in she called him "angel."  The idee of a angel
a gnawin' off beads and a yelpin'!

And I asked her, and I couldn't help it.  How her baby wuz that afternoon, and if she ever
took it out to drive?

And she said she didn't really know how it wuz this afternoon; it wuzn't very well in the mornin'.
The nurse had it out somewhere, she didn't really know just where.  And she said, no, she didn't
take it out with her at all -- fur she didn't feel equal to the care of it, in this hot weather.

Miss Flamm haint very well I could see that.  The care of that dog is jest a killin' her, a
carryin' it round with her all the time daytimes, and a bein' up with it so much nights.  She
said it had a dretful chill the night before, and she had to get up to warm blankets to put
round it; "its nerves wuz so weak," she said, "and it wuz so sensative that she could not trust
it to a nurse."  She has a hard time of it; there haint a doubt of it.

Wall, it wuz anon, or jest about anon, that Miss Flamm turned to me and sez, "Moon's is one
of the pleasantest places on the lake. I want you to see it; folks drive out there a sight
from Saratoga."

And then I looked at Josiah, and Josiah looked at me, and peace and happiness settled down
ag'in onto our hearts.

Wall, we got there considerably before anon and we found that Moon's insted of bein' up in
another planet wuz a big, long sort a low buildin' settled right down onto this old earth,
with a immense piazza stretchin' along the side on't.

And Miss Flamm and Josiah and me disembarked from the carriage right onto the end of it.  But
the dog and her relatives stayed back in the buggy and Josiah spoke bitterly to me ag'in but
low, "They think it would hurt 'em to associate with me a little, dumb 'm; but I am jest as
good as they be any day of the week, if I haint dressed up so fancy."

"That's so," sez I, whisperin' back to him, "and don't let it worry you a mite.  Don't try
to act like Haman," sez I.  "You are havin' lots of the good things of this world, and are
goin' to have some fried potatoes.  Don't let them two Mordecais at the gate, poison all your
happiness, or you may get come up with jest as Haman wuz."

"I'd love to hang'em," sez he, "as high as Haman's gallows would let 'em hang."

"Why," sez I, "they haint injured you in any way.  They seem to eat like perfect gentlemen.
A little too exclusive and aristocratic, mebby, but they haint done nothin' to you."

"No," sez he, "that is the stick on it, here we be, three men with a lot of wimmen.  And they
can't associate with me as man with man, but set off by themselves too dumb proud to say a
word to me, that is the dumb of it."

But at this very minute, before I could rebuke him for his feerful profanity, Miss Flamm motioned
to us to come and take a seat round a little table, and consequently we sot.

It was a long broad piazza with sights and sights of folks on it a settin' round little tables
like our'n, and all a lookin' happy, and a laughin', and a talkin' and a drinkin' different
drinks, sech as lemonade, etc., and eatin' fried potatoes and sech.

And out in the road by which we had come, wuz sights and sights of vehicles and conveyances
of all kinds from big Tally Ho coaches with four horses on 'em, down to a little two wheeled
buggy.  The road wuz full on'em.

In front of us, down at the bottom of a steep though beautiful hill, lay stretched out the
clear blue waters of the lake. Smooth and tranquil it looked in the light of that pleasant
afternoon, and fur off, over the shinin' waves, lay the island. And white-sailed boats wuz
a sailin' slowly by, and the shadow of their white sails lay down in the water a floatin' on
by the side of the boats, lookin' some like the wings of that white dove that used to watch
over Lake Saratoga.

And as I looked down on the peaceful seen, the feelin's I had down in the wild wood, back of
the Gizer Spring come back to me. The waves rolled in softly from fur off, fur off, bringin'
a greetin' to me unbeknown to anybody, unbeknown to me.  It come into my heart unbidden, unsought,
from afur, afur.

Where did it come from that news of lands more beautiful than any that lay round Mr. Moons'es,
beautiful as it wuz.

Echoes of music sweeter fur than wuz a soundin' from the band down by the shore, music heard
by some finer sense than heard that, heavenly sweet, heavenly sad, throbbin' through the remoteness
of that country, through the nearness of it, and fillin' my eyes with tears.  Not sad tears,
not happy ones, but tears that come only to them that shet their eyes and behold the country,
and love it.  The waves softly lappin' the shore brought a message to me; my soul hearn it.
Who sent it?  And where, and when, and why?

Not a trace of these emotions could be read on my countenance as I sot there calmly a eatin'
fried potatoes.  And they did go beyond anything I ever see in the line of potatoes, and I
thought I could fry potatoes with any one: Yes, such wuz my feelin's when I sot out for Mr.
Moons'es.  But I went back a thinkin' that potatoes had never been fried by me, sech is the
power of a grand achievment over a inferior one, and so easy is the sails taken down out of
the swellin' barge of egotism.

No, them potatoes you could carry in your pocket for weeks right by the side of the finest
lace, and the lace would be improved by the purity of 'em.  Fried potatoes in that condition,
you could eat 'em with the lightest silk gloves one and the tips of the fingers would be improved
by 'em; fried potatoes, jest think on't!

Wall, we had some lemonade too, and if you'll believe it, -- I don't s'pose you will but it
is the truth, -- there wuz straws in them glasses too.  But you may as well believe it for
I tell the truth at all times, and if I wuz a goin' to lie, I wouldn't lie about lemons.  And
then I've always noticed it, that if things git to happenin' to you, lots of things jest like
it will happen. That made twice in one week or so, that I had found straws in my tumbler. 
But then I have had company three days a runnin', rainy days too sometimes.  It haint nothin'
to wonder at too much.  Any way it is the truth.

Wall, we drinked our lemonade, I a quietly takin' out the straws and droppin' 'em on the floor
at my side in a quiet ladylike manner, and Josiah, a bein' wunk at by me, doin' the same thing.

And anon, our carriage drove up to the end of the piazza agin and we sot sail homewards.  And
the dog barked at Josiah almost every step of the way back, and when we got to our boardin'
place, Miss Flamm shook hands with us both, and her relatives never took a mite of notice of
us, further than to jump down and open the carriage door for us as we got out.  (They are genteel
in their manners, and Josiah had to admit that they wuz, much as his feelin's wuz hurt by their
haughtiness towards him.)

And then the dog, and Miss Flamm and Miss Flamm's relatives drove off.

XI.

VISIT TO THE INDIAN ENCAMPMENT.

It wuz a fair sunshiny mornin' (and it duz seem to me that the fairness of a Saratoga mornin'
seems fairer, and the sunshine more sunshiny than it duz anywhere else), that Josiah and Ardelia
and me sot sail for the Indian Encampment, which wuz encamped on a little rise of ground to
the eastward of where we wuz.

Ardelia wuz to come to our boardin' place at halfpast 9 A. M., forenoon, and we wuz to set
out together from there.  And punctual to the very half minute I wuz down on the piazza, with
my mantilly hung over my arm and my umberel in my left hand. Josiah Allen was on the right
side on me.  And as Ardelia hadn't come yet we sot down in a middlin' quiet part of the piazza,
and waited for her.  And as we sot there, I sez to Josiah, as I looked out on the fair pleasant
mornin' and the fair pleasant faces environin' of us round, sez I, "Saratoga is a good-natured
place, haint it, Josiah?"

And he said (I mistrust his corns ached worse than common, or sunthin'), he said, he didn't
see as it wuz any better-natured than Jonesville or Loontown.

And I sez, "Yes it is, Josiah Allen."  Sez I, folks are happier here and more generous, the
rich ones seem inclined to help them that need help to a little comfort and happiness.  Jest
as I have always said, Josiah Allen.  When folks are happy, they are more inclined to do good."

"Oh shaw!" sez Josiah.  "That never made no difference with me."

"What didn't?" sez I.

"I'm always good," sez he, and he snapped out the words real snappish, and loud.

And I sez mildly, "Wall, you needn't bring the ruff down to prove your goodness."

And he went on: "I don't see as they are so pesky good here; I haint seen nothin' of it."

"Wall," sez I, "when I look over Yaddo, and Hilton Park, it makes me reconciled, Josiah, to
have men get rich; it makes me willin', Josiah."

And he sez (cross), He guessed men would get rich whether I wuz willin' or not; he guessed
they wouldn't ask me.

"Wall, you needn't snap my head off, Josiah Allen," sez I, "because I love to see folks use
their wealth to make pleasant places for poor folks to wander round in, and forget their own
narrow rocky roads for a spell.  It is a noble thing to do, Josiah Allen; they might have built
high walls round 'em if they had been a mind to, and locked the gates and shet out all the
poor and tired-out ones, But they didn't, and I am highly tickled at the thought on't, Josiah
Allen."

"Wall, I don't shet up our sugar lot, do I? and I have never heerd you say one word a praisin'
me up for that."

"That is far different, Josiah Allen," sez I, "there is nothin' there that can git hurt, only
stumps.  And you have never laid out a cent of money on it.  And they have spent thousands
and thousands of dollars; and the poorest little child in Saratoga, if it has beauty-lovin'
eyes, can go in and enjoy these places jest as much as the owners can.  And it is a sweet thought
to me, Josiah Allen."

"Oh wall," sez he, "you have probable said enough about it."

Now I never care for the last word, some wimmen do, but I never do.  But still I wuzn't goih'
to be shet right eff from talkin' about these places, and I intimated as much to him, and he
said, "Dumb it all!  I could talk about 'em all day, if I wanted to, and about Demorist's Woods
too."

"Wall," sez I, "that is another place, Josiah Allen, that is a likely well-meanin' spot.  Middlin'
curius to look at," sez I, reesonably.  "It makes one's head feel sort a strange to see them
criss-cross, curius poles, and floors up in trees, and ladders, and teterin' boards, and springs,
etc., etc., etc.  But it is a well-meanin' spot, Josiah Allen.  And it highly tickled me to
think that the little fresh air children wuz brung up there by the owner of the woods and the
poor little creeters, out of their dingy dirty homes, and filthy air, wandered round for one
happy day in the green woods, in the fresh air and sunshine.  That wuz a likely thing to do,
Josiah Allen, and it raises a man more in my estimation when he's doin' sech things as that,
than to set up in a political high chair, and have a lot of dirty hands clapped, and beery
breaths a cheerin' him on up the political arena."

"Oh wall," sez Josiah, "the doin's in them woods is enough to make anybody a dumb lunatick.
The crazyest lookin' lot of stuff I ever set eyes on."

"Wall, anyway," sez I, "it is a good crazy, if it is, and a well-meanin' one."

"Oh, how cross Josiah Allen did look as he heered me say these words.  That man can't bear
to hear me say one word a praisin' up another man, and it grows on him.

But good land!  I am a goin' to speak out my mind as long as my breath is spared.  And I said
quite a number of words more about the deep enjoyment it gin' me to see these broad, pleasure
grounds free for all, rich and poor, bond and free, hombly and handsome, etc., etc.

And I spoke about the charitable houses, St. Christiana's home, and the Home for Old Female
Wimmen, and mentioned the fact in warm tones of how a good, noble-hearted woman had started
that charity in the first on't.

And Josiah, while I wuz talkin' about these wimmen, became meak as a lamb.  They seemed to
quiet him.  He looked real mollyfied by the time Ardelia got there, which wuz anon.  And then
we sot sail for the Encampment.

The Encampment is encamped on one end of a big, square, wild-lookin' lot right back of one
of the biggest tarvens in Saratoga.  It is jest as wild lookin' and appeerin' a field as there
is in the outskirts of Loontown or Jonesville.  Why Uncle Grant Hozzleton's stunny pasture
don't look no more sort a broke up and rural than that duz.  I wondered some why they had it
there, and then I thought mebby they kep' it to remember Nater by, old Nater herself, that
runs a pretty small chance to be thought on in sech a place as this.

You know there is so much orniment and gildin' and art in the landscape and folks, that mebby
they might forget the great mother of us all, that is, right in the thickest of the crowd they
might, but they have only to take these few steps and they will see Ma Nater with her every-day
dress on, not fixed up a mite.  And I s'pose she looks good to 'em.

I myself think that Mother Nater might smooth herself out a little there with no hurt to herself
or her children.  I don't believe in Mas goin' round with their dresses onhooked, and slip-shod,
and their hair all stragglin' out of their combs.  (I say this in metafor.  I don't spose Ma
Nater ever wore a back comb or had hooks and eyes on her gown; I say it for oritory, and would
wish to be took in a oritorius way.

And I don't say right out, that the reeson I have named is the one why they keep that place
a lookin' so like furey, I said, MEBBY.  But I will say this, that it is a wild-lookin' spot,
and hombly.

Wall, on the upper end on't, standin' up on the top of a sort of a hill, the Indian Encampment
is encamped.  There is a hull row of little stores, and there is swings, and public diversions
of different kinds, krokay grounds, etc., etc., etc.

Wall, Ardelia stopped at one of these stores kep' by a Injun, not a West, but a East one, and
began to price some wooden bracelets, and try 'em on, and Josiah and me wandered on.

And anon, we came to a tent with some good verses of Scripter on it;  good solid Bible it wuz;
and so I see it wuz a good creeter in there anyway.  And I asked a bystander a standin' by,
Who wuz in there, and Why, and When?

And he said it wuz a fortune-teller who would look in the pamm of my hand, and tell me all
my fortune that wuz a passin' by.  And I said I guessed I would go in, for I would love to
know how the children wuz that mornin' and whether the baby had got over her cold.  I hadn't
heerd from 'em in over two days.

Josiah kinder hung 'round outside though he wuz willin' to have me go in.  He jest worships
the children and the baby.  And he sees the texts from Job on it, with his own eyes.

So I bid him a affectionate farewell, and we see the woman a lookin' out of the tent and witnessin'
on't.  But I didn't care. If a pair of companions and a pair of grandparents can't act affectionate,
who can?  And the world and the Social Science meetin' might try in vain to bring up any reeson
why they shouldn't.

So I went in, with my mind all took up with the grandchildern. But the first words she sez
to me wuz, as she looked close at the pamm of my hand, "Keep up good spirits, Mom; you will
get him in spite of all opposition."

"Get who?" sez I, "And what?"

"A man you want to marry.  A small baldheaded man, a amiable-lookin', slender man.  His heart
is sot on you.  And all the efferts of the light-complected woman in the blue hat will be in
vain to break it up.  Keep up good courage, you will marry him in spite of all," sez she, porin'
over my pamm and studyin' it as if it wuz a jography.

"For the land's sake!" sez I, bein' fairly stunted with the idees she promulgated.

"Yes, you will marry him, and be happy.  But you have had a sickness in the past and your line
of happiness has been broken once or twice."

Sez I, "I should think as much; let a woman live with a man, the best man in the world for
20 years, and if her line of happiness haint broke more than once or twice, why it speaks well
for the line, that is all.  It is a good, strong line."

"Then you have been married?" says she.

"Yes, Mom," sez I.

"Oh, I see, down in the corner of your hand is a coffin, you are a widow, you have seen trouble.
But you will be happy.  The mild, bald gentleman will make you happy.  He will lead you to
the altar in spite of the light-complected woman with the blue bat on."

Ardelia Tutt had on a blue hat, the idee!  But I let her go on. Thinkses I, "I have paid my
money and now it stands me in hand to get the worth on't."  So she comferted me up with the
hope of gettin' my Josiah for quite a spell.

Gettin' my pardner!  Gettin' the father of my childern, and the grandparent of my grandchildren!
Jest think on't, will you?

But then she branched off and told me things that wuz truly wonderful.  Where and how she got
'em wuz and is a mistery to me. True things, and strange.

Why it seemed same as if them tall pines, that wuz a whisperin' together over the Encampment
wuz a peerin' over into my past, and a whisperin' it down to her.  Or, in some way or other,
the truth wuz a bein' filtered down to her comprehension through some avenue beyond our sense
or sight.

It is a curious thing, so I think, and so Josiah thinks.  We talked it over after I came out,
and we wuz a wanderin' on about the Encampment.  I told him some of the wonderful things she
had told me and he didn't believe it.  "For," sez he, "I'll be hanged if I can understand and
I won't believe anything that I can't understand!"

And I pointed with the top of my umberel at a weed growin' by the side of the road, and sez
I, "When you tell me jest how that weed draws out of the back ground jest the ingredients she
needs to make her blue foretop, and her green gown, then I'll tell you all about this secret
that Nater holds back from us a spell, but will reveel to us when the time comes."

"Oh shave!" sez Josiah, "I guess I know all about a jimson weed. Why they groin; that is all
there is about them.  They grow, dumb 'em.  I guess if you'd broke your back as many times
as I have a pullin' 'em up, yon would know all about' em.  Dumb their dumb picters," sez he,
a scowlin' at 'em.

It wuz the same kind of weed that growed in our onion beds.  I recognized it.  Them and white
daisies, our garden wuz overrun by 'em both.

But I sez, "Can you tell how the little seed of this weed goes down into the earth and selects
jest what she wants out of the great storehouse below?  She never comes out in a pink head-dress
or a yellow gown.  No, she always selects what will make the blue. It shows that it has life,
intelligence, or else it couldn't think, way down under the ground, and grope in the dark,
but always gropin' jest right, always a thinkin' the right thing, never, never in the hundreds
and thousands of years makin' a mistake.  Why, you couldn't do it, Josiah Allen, nor I couldn't.

"And we set and see these silent mysteries a goin' on right at our door-step day by day, and
year by year, and think nothin' of it, because it is so common.  But if anything else, some
new law, some new wonder we don't understand comes in our way, we are ready to reject it and
say it is a lie.  But you know, Josiah Allen," sez I, jest ready to go on eloquent -

But I wuz interrupted jest here by my companion hollerin' up in a loud voice to a boy, "Here!
you stop that, you young scamp!  Don't you let me see you a doin' that agin!"

Sez I, "What is it, Josiah Allen?"

"Why look at them young imps, a throwin' sticks at that feeble old woman, over there."

I looked, and my own heart wuz rousted up with indignation.  I stood where I couldn't see her
face, but I see she wuz old, feeble, and bent, a withered poor old creeter, and they had marked
up over her, her name, Aunt Sally.

I too wuz burnin' indignant to see a lot of young creeters a throwin' sticks at her, and I
cried out loud, "Do you let Sarah be."

They turned round and laughed in our faces, and I went on: "I'd be ashamed of myself if I wuz
in your places to be a throwin' sticks at that feeble old woman.  Why don't you spend your
strengths a tryin' to do sunthin' for her?  Git her a home, and sunthin' to eat, and a better
dress.  Before I'd do what you are a doin' now, I'd growvel in the dust.  Why, if you wuz my
boys I'd give you as good a spankin' as you ever had."

But they jest laughed at us, the impudent Greeters.  And one of the boys at that minute took
up a stick and threw it, and hit Sarah right on her poor old head.

Sez Josiah, "Don't you hit Sarah agin."

Sez the boys, "We will," and two of 'em hit her at one time.  And one of 'em knocked the pipe
right out of her mouth.  She wuz a smokin', poor old creeter.  I s'pose that wuz all the comfort
she took.  But did them little imps care?  They knocked her as if they hated the sight of her. V. - THE
COUNTRY FLAMENCO general idea of Flanders .-- .-- The race, literature and art .-- Flemish Ghent:
its structure and alderredores .-- Monuments and civil institutions, the Belfry and traditions. - Monuments and
religious institutes, the "Beguine." - Works of art, the Museum of
paintings, the botanical garden and zoo. 405 CAP.

VI .-- THE MARITIME REGION .-- The city of Bruges, general appearance
.-- .-- Monuments and institutes various objects of art and religious
practices .-- Ostend, his outlook, his bathroom, his company .-- The
trade and fisheries of the Belgians.

417 CAP. Ostend VII .-- OF PARIS .-- The northwestern Courtrai Belgium and the border .-- .--
.-- The city of Lille Arras .-- Donai. 426 INTRODUCTI ON. The good description
of a trip, although it requires certain conditions little vulgar,
is a less laborious than generally thought.

But traveling, or travel is an art to know more delicate and difficult
than many think.

When traveling purely for enjoyment and shake the annoyance, is not nothing but wander into a country
or moving vegetate.

The pseudo-traveler, driven by curiosity without consequences, it
seems then the sheet that floats in the whirl of a hurricane, without
enduring trend or significance.

The journey is a complex art research methods at the same time intelligent fad. He requires,
first, living qualities of impressionability, poetic imagination,
severe criterion, curiosity and freedom of spirit observation together,
and the other, time, money, patience, knowledge of languages and certain
benefits applicable to the country being visited.

Therefore, when undertaking a series of trips, rather than travel in Europe, I understand well,
without hallucinations, disadvantages of my personal position. Colombian
by birth but cosmopolitan by my convictions, I belong to my country
above all Colombia, which I can not be absent long.

But eager to seek the truth, following and comparing the various movements of peoples more
advanced in civilization I had to reconcile two equally compelling
needs .-- Unable to have more than five years in Europe, I had perforce
to be reduced to careful study of the two more advanced societies
- France and England, - and as to the others, to make quick trips
allow me to feel and understand only the most characteristic and salient
facts, forms or the most visible phenomena of European civilization.

It's all these great ways that a child of the New World, eager to light
but experience, can get the synthetic notion of rotation and the
nature of that civilization.

If I had to go to European readers, or not writes the narrative of my humble travels, or have
attempted to give these other proportions, tracing a method that would allow
me undertake studies of any serious or significant, under the measure
of my feeble strength

.


"Wall," sez I, "if you feel like that, Josiah Allen, it is not fur from me to balk you in your
search for beauty.  I too admire loveliness, Josiah Allen, and seek after it."  And sez I,
"I will faithfully follow at your side, and together we will bask in the rays of beauty, together
will we be lifted up and inspired by the immortal spirit of loveliness."

So payin' our 30 cents we advanced up the steps, I expectin' soon to be made happy, and Josiah
held up by the expectation of soon havin' his eyes blest by that vision of enchantin' beauty,
he had so long dremp of.

He advanced onto the pen first and before I even glanced down into the deep where as I s'posed
she set on a rock a combin' out her long golden hair, a singin' her lurin' and enchanted song,
to distant mariners she had known, and to the one who wuz a showin' of her off, before I had
time to even glance at her, the maid, I was dumbfounded and stood aghast, at the mighty change
that came over my pardner's linement.

He towered up in grandeur and in wrath before me.  He seemed almost like a offended male fowl
when ravenin' hawks are angerin' of it beyond its strength to endure.  I don't like that metafor;
I don't love to compare my pardner to any fowl, wild or tame; but my frenzied haste to describe
the fearful seen must be my excuse, and also my agitation in recallin' of it.

He towered up, he fluttered so to speak majestically, and he says in loud wild axents that
must have struck terror to the soul of that mariner, "Where is the hair-comb?"

And then he shook his fist in the face of that mariner, and cries out once agin, "Where is
them long golden tresses?  Bring 'em on this instant!  Fetch on that hair-comb, in a minute's
time, or I'll prosecute you, and sue you, and take the law to you - !" 

The microscopic food is a kind of milk is offered without asking. The very
fate of the world, hunger exists only in the earth at sea is averted,
is unknown.

No effort of movement, no one is cured of seeking food. Life must
float like a dream. What forces being used?

In anything you can afford, and reserves for love. * * * The real work, the work of the great
world of the seas is: love and multiply

.
  Do you s'pose I'm goin' to pay out
my money for seein' that dried-up mummy of the hombliest thing ever made on earth, the dumbdest,
hombliest; with 2 or 3 horse hairs pasted onto its yellow old shell!  Do you spose I'm goin'
to be cheated by seein' that, into thinkin' it is a beautiful creeter a playin' and combin'
her hair?  Bring on that beautiful creeter a combin' out her long, golden hair this instant,
and bring out the comb and I'll give you five minutes to do it in."

He wuz hoorse with emotion, and he wuz pale round his lips as anything and leis eyes under
his forward looked glassy.  I wuz fearful of the result.

Thinkses I, I will look and see what has wrecked my pardner's happiness and almost reasen.
I looked in and I see plain that his agitation was nothin' to be wondered at.  It did truly
seem to be the hombliest, frightfulest lookin' little thing that wuz ever made by a benignant
Providence or a taxy-dermis.  I couldn't tell which made it.  I see it all, but I see also,
so firm, sot is my reasun onto its high throne on my heart, I see that to preserve my pardner's
sanity, I must control my reasun at the sight that had tottered my pardner's.

I turned to him, and tried to calm the seethin' waters, but he loudly called for the comb,
and for the tresses, and the lookin' glass.  And, askin' in a wild' sarcastic way where the
song wuz that she sung to mariners?  And hollerin' for him to bring on that rock at that minute,
and them mariners, and ordered him to set her to singin'.

The idee! of that little skeletin with her skinny lips drawed back from her shinin' fish teeth,
a singin'.  The idee on't!

But truly, he wuz destracted and knew not what he did.  The mariner in charge looked destracted.
And the bystanders a standin' by wuz amazed, and horrowfied by the spectacle of his actin'
and behavin'.  And I knew not how I should termonate the seen, and withdraw him away from where
he wuz.

But in my destraction and agony of sole, I bethought me of one meens of quietin' him and as
it were terrifyin' him into silence and be the meens of gettin' on him to leave the seen. 
I begoned to Ardelia to come forward and I sez in a whisper to her, "Take out your pencil and
a piece of paper and stand up in front of him and go to writin' some of your poetry,"

And then I sez agin in tender agents, "Be calm, Josiah."

"And I tell you that I won't be calm!  And I tell you," a shakin' his fist at that pale mariner,
"I tell you to bring out -- "

At that very minute he turned his eyes onto Ardelia, who stood with a kind of a fur-away look
in her eyes in front of him with the paper in her hand, and sez he to me, "What is she doin'?"

"She is composin' some poetry onto you, Josiah Allen," sez I, in tremblin' axents; for I felt
that if that skeme failed, I wuz undone, for I knew I had no ingredients there to get him a
extra good meal.  No, I felt that my tried and true weepon wuz fur away, and this wuz my last hope.

But as I thought these thoughts with almost a heatlightnin' rapidety, I see a change in his
liniment.  It did not look so thick and dark; it began to look more natural and clear.

And sez he in the same old way I have heerd him say it so many times, "Dumb it all!  What duz
she want to write poetry on me for?  It is time to go home."  And so sayin', he almost tore
us from the seen.

I gin Ardelia that night 2 yards of lute-string ribbon, a light pink, and didn't begrech it.
But I have never dast, not in his most placid and serene moments - I have never dast, to say
the word "Mermaid' to him.

Truly there is something that the boldest female pardner dassent do.  Mermaids is one of the
things I don' dast to bring up.  No! no, fur be it from me to say "Mermaid" to Josiah Allen.

XII.

A DRIVE TO SARATOGA LAKE.

Josiah and me took a short drive this afternoon, he hirin' a buggy for the occasion.  He called
it "goin' in his own conveniance," and I didn't say nothin' aginst his callin' it so.  I didn't
break it up for this reasun, thinkses I it is a conveniance for us to ride in it, for us 2
tried and true souls to get off for a minute by ourselves.

Wall, Josiah wuz dretful good behaved this afternoon.  He helped me in a good deal politer
than usual and tucked the bright lap-robe almost tenderly round my form.

Men do have sech spells.  They are dretful good actin' at times. Why they act better and more
subdueder and mellerer at sometimes than at others, is a deep subject which we mortals cannot
as yet fully understand.  Also visey versey, their cross, up headeder times, over bearin' and
actin'.  It is a deep subject and one freighted with a great deal of freight.

But Josiah's goodness on this afternoon almost reached the Scripteral and he sez, when we first
sot out, and I see that the horse's head wuz turned towards the Lake.  Sez he, "I guess we'll
go to the Lake, but where do you want to go, Samantha?  I will go anywhere you want to go."

And he still drove almost recklessly on lakewards.  And sez he, "We had better go straight
on, but say the word, and you can go jest where you want to."  And he urged the horse on to
still greater speed.  And he sez agin, "Do you want to go any particular place, Samantha?"

"Yes," sez I, "I had jest as leves go there as not."

"Wall, I knew there would be where you would want to go."  And he drove on at a good jog. 
But no better jog than we had been a goin' on.

Wall the weather wuz delightful.  It wuz soft and balmy.  And my feelin's towered my pardner
(owin' to his linement) wuz soft and balmy as the air.  And so we moved onwards, past the home
of one who wuz true to his country, when all round him wuz false, who governed his state wisely
and well, held the lines firm, when she wuz balky, and would have been glad to take the lines
in her teeth and run away onto ruin; past the big grand house of him who carried a piece of
our American justice way off into Egypt and carried it firm and square too right there in the
dark.  I s'pose it is dark.  I have always hearn about its bein' as dark as Egypt.  Wall, anyway
he is a good lookin' man.  They both on 'em are and Josiah admitted it - after some words.

Wall anon, or perhaps a little after, we came to where we could see the face of Beautiful Saratoga
Lake, layin' a smilin' up into the skies.  A little white cloud wuz a restin' up on the top
of the tree-covered mountain that riz up on one side of the lake, and I felt that it might
be the shadow form of the sacred dove Saderrosseros a broodin' down over the waters she loved.

That she loved still, though another race wuz a bathin' their weary forwards in the tide. 
And I wondered as I looked down on it, whether the great heart of the water wuz constant; if
it ever heaved up into deep sithes a thinkin' of the one who had passed away, of them who once
rested lightly on her bosem, bathed their dark forwards and read the meanin' of the heavens,
in the moon and stars reflected there.

I don't know as she remembered 'em, and Josiah don't.  But I know as we stood there, a lookin'
down on her, the lake seemed to give a sort of a sithe and a shiver kind a run over her, not
a cold shiver exactly, but a sort of a shinin', glorified shiver.  I see it a comin' from way
out on the lake and it swept and sort a shivered on clean to the shore and melted away there
at our feet. Mebby it wuz a sort o' sithe, and mebby agin it wuzn't.

I guess it felt that it wuz all right, that a fairer race had brought fairer customs and habits
of thoughts, and the change wuz not a bad one.  I guess she looked forward to the time when
a still grander race should look down into her shinin' face, a race of free men, and free wimmen;
sons and daughters of God, who should hold their birthright so grandly and nobly that they
will look back upon the people of to-day, as we look back upon the dark sons and daughters
of the forest, in pity and dolor.

I guess she thought it wuz all right.  Any way she acted as if she did.  She looked real sort
o' serene and calm as we left her, and sort o' prophetic too, and glowin'.

Wall, we went by a long first rate lookin' sort of a tarven, I guess.  It wuz a kind of a dark
red color, and dretfully flowered off in wood - red wood.  And there we see standin' near the
house, a great big round sort of a buildin', and my Josiah sez,

"There! that is a buildin' I like the looks on. That is a barn I like; built perfectly round.
That is sunthin' uneek.  I'll have a barn like that if I live.  I fairly love that barn." 
And he stopped the horse stun still to look at it.

And I sez in sort o' cool tones, not entirely cold, but coolish: "What under the sun do you
want with a round barn?  And you don't need another one."

"Wall, I don't exactly need it, Samantha, but it would be a comfert to me to own one.  I should
dearly love a round barn."

And he went on pensively, - "I wonder how much it would cost.  I wouldn't have it quite so
big as this is.  I'd have it for a horse barn, Samantha.  It would look so fashionable, and
genteel. Think what it would be, Samantha, to keep our old mair in a round barn, why the mair
would renew her age."

"She wouldn't pay no attention to it," sez I.  "She knows too much."  And I added in cooler,
more dignifieder tones, but dretful meanin' ones, "The old mair, Josiah Allen, don't run after
every new fancy she hears on.  She don't try to be fashionable, and she haint high-headed,
except," sez I, reasenably, "when you check her up too much."

"Wall," sez he, "I am bound to make some enquiries.  Hello!" says he to a bystander a comin'
by.  "Have you any idee what such a barn as that would cost?  A little smaller one, I don't
need so big a one.  How many feet of lumber do you s'pose it would take for it?  I ask you,"
sez he, "as between man and man."

I nudged him there, for as I have said, I didn't believe then, and I don't believe now, that
he or any other man ever knew or mistrusted what they meant by that term "as between man and
man." I think it sounds kind o' flat, and I always oppose Josiah's usin' it; he loves it.

Wall, the man broke out a' laughin' and sez he, "That haint a barn, that is a tree."

"A tree!" sez I, a sort o' cranin' my neck forward in deep amaze. And what exclamation Josiah
Allen made, I will not be coaxed into revealin'; no, it is better not.

But suffice it to say that after a long explanation my companion at last gin in that the man
wuz a tellin' the truth, and it wuz the lower part of a tree-trunk, that growed once near the
Yo Semity valley of California.  Good land! good land!

Josiah drove on quick after the man explained it, he felt meachin', but I didn't notice his
linement so much, I wuz so deep in thought, and a wonderin' about it; a wonderin' how the old
tree felt with her feet a restin' here on strange soil - her withered, dry old feet a standin'
here, as if jest ready to walk away restless like and feverish, a wantin' to get back by the
rushin' river that used to bathe them feet in the spring overflow of the pure cold mountain
water.  It seemed to me she felt she was a alien, as if she missed her strong sturdy grand
old body, her lofty head that used to peer up over the mountains, and as if some day she wuz
a goin' to set off a walkin' back, a tryin' to find 'em.

I thought of how it had towered up, how the sun had kissed its branches, how the birds had
sung and built their nests against her green heart, hovered in her great, outstretched arms.
The birds of a century, the birds of a thousand years.  How the storms had beat upon her; the
first autumn rains of a thousand years, the first snow-flakes that had wavered down in a slantin'
line and touched the tips of her outstretched fingers, and then had drifted about her till
her heart wuz almost frozen and she would clap her cold hands together to warm 'em, and wail
out a dretful moanin' sound of desolation, and pain.

But the first warm rain drops of Spring would come, the sunshine warmed her, she swung out
her grand arms in triumph agin, and joined the majestic psalm of victory and rejoicing with
all her grand sisterhood of psalmists.  The stars looked down on her, the sun lit her lofty
forward, the suns and stars of a thousand years.  Strange animals, that mebby we don't know
anything about now, roamed about her feet, birds of a different plumage and song sung to her
(mebby).

Strange faces of men and women looked up to her.  What faces had looked up to her in sorrow
and in joy?  I'd gin a good deal to know.  I'd have loved to see them strange faces touched
with strange pains and hopes.  Tribulations and joys of a thousand years ago.  What sort of
tribulations wuz they, and what sort of joys?  Sunthin' human, sunthin' that we hold in common,
no doubt. The same pain that pained Eve as she walked down out of Eden, the same joy that Adam
enjoyed while they and the garden wuz prosperus, wuz in their faces most probable whether their
forwards wuz pinted or broad, their faces black, copper colored or white.

And the changes, the changes of a thousand years, all these the old tree had seen, and I respected
her dry dusty old feet and wuz sorry for 'em.  And I reveryed on the subject more'n half the
way home, and couldn't help it.  Anyway my revery lasted till jest before we got to the big
gate of the Race Course.

And right there, right in front of them big ornamental doors, we see Miss G. Washington Flamm,
with about a thousand other carriages and wagons and Tally ho's and etcetry, and etcetry. 
Josiah thinks there wuz a million teams, but I don't.  I am mejum; there wuzn't probable over
a thousand right there in the road.

Miss Flamm recognized us and asked us if we didn't want to go in. Wall, Josiah wuz agreeable
to the idee and said so.  And then she said sunthin' to the man that tended to the gate, probably
sunthin' in our praise, and handed him sunthin', it might have been a ten cent piece, for all
I know.

But anyway he wuz dretful polite to us, and let us through.  And my land! if it wuzn't a sight
to behold!  Of all the big roomy places I ever see all filled with vehicles of all shapes and
sizes and folks on foot and big high platforms, all filled with men and wimmen and children!
And Josiah sez to me, "I thought the hull dumb world wuz there outside in the road, and here
there is ten times as many in here."

And I sez, "Yes, Josiah, be careful and not lose me, for I feel like a needle in a hay mow."

He looked down on me and sort a smiled.  I s'pose it wuz because I compared myself to a needle,
and he sez, "A cambric needle, or a darnin' needle?"

And I sez, "I wouldn't laugh in such a time as this, Josiah Allen." Sez I, "Do jest look over
there on the race course."

And it wuz a thrillin' seen.  It wuz a place big enough for all the horses of our land to run
'round in and from Phario's horses down to them of the present time.  And beautiful broad smooth
roads cut in the green velvet of the grass, and horses goin' 'round jest like lightnin', with
little light buggys hitched to 'em, some like the quiver on sheet lightnin' (only different
shape) and men a drivin' 'em.

And then there wuz a broad beautiful race course with little clusters of trees and bushes,
every little while right in the road, and if you'll believe it, I don't s'pose you will, but
it is the livin' truth, when them horses, goin' jest like a flash of light, with little boys
all dressed in gay colors a ridin' 'em -- when them horses came to them trees instid of goin'
'round 'em, or pushin' in between 'em, or goin' back agin, they jumped right over 'em.  I don't
spose this will be believed by lots of folks in Jonesville and Loontown, but it is the truth,
for I see it with both my eyes.  Josiah riz right up in the buggy and cheered jest as the rest
of 'em did, entirely unbeknown to himself, so he said, to see it a goin' on.

Why he got nearly rampant with excitement.  And so did I, though I wouldn't want it known by
Tirzah Ann's husband's folks and others in Jonesville.  They call it "steeple chasin'" so if
they should hear on't, it wouldn't sound so very wicked any way.  I should probable tell 'em
if they said too much, "That it wuz a pity if folks couldn't get interested in a steeple and
chase it up."  But between you and me I didn't see no sign of a steeple, nor meetin' house
nor nuthin'.  I s'pose they gin it that name to make it seem more righter to perfessors.  I
know it wuz a great comfort to me.  (But I don't think they chased a steeple, and Josiah don't,
for we think we should have seen it if they had.)

Wall, as I say, we wuz both dretfully interested, excited, and wrought up, I s'pose I ort to
say, when a chap accosted me and says to me sunthin' about buyin' a pool.  And I shook my head
and sez, "No, I don't want to buy no pool."

But he kep' on a talkin' and a urgin', and sez, "Won't you buy a French pool, mom, you can
make lots of money out of it."

"A pool," sez I in dignified axents, and some stern, for I wuz weary with his importunities.
"What do I want a pool for?  Don't you s'pose there's any pools in Jonesville, and I never
thought nothin' on 'em, I always preferred runnin' water.  But if I wuz a goin' to buy one,
what under the sun do you s'pose I would buy one way off here for, hundreds of miles from Jonesville?"

"I might possibly," sez I, not wantin' to hurt his feelin's and tryin' to think of some use
I could put it tot " might if you had a good small American pool, that wuz a sellin' cheap;
and I could have it set right in our back yard, clost to the horse barn, why I might possibly
try to make a dicker with you for it.  I might use it for raisin' ducks and geese, though I'd
rather have a runnin' stream then.  But how under the sun you think I could take a pool home
on a tower, how I could pack it, or transport it, or drive it home is a mystery to me."

Again he sez mechinecally, "Lots of wimmen do get 'em."

"Wall, some wimmen," sez I mildly, for I see he wuz a lookin' at me perfect dumbfoundered.
I see I wuz fairly stuntin' him with my eloquence.  "Some wimmen will buy anything if it has
a French name to it.  But I prefer my own country, land or water.  And some wimmen," sez I,
"will buy anything if they can get it cheap, things they don't need, and would be better off
without, from a eliphant down to a magnificent nothin' to call husband.  They'll buy any worthless
and troublesome thing jest to get 'em to goin'. Now such wimmen would jest jump at that pool.
But that haint my way.  No, I don't want to purchase your pool."

Sez he, "You are mistaken, mom!"

"No I haint," sez I firmly and with decesion.  "No I haint.  I don't need no pool.  It wouldn't
do me no good to keep it on my hands, and I haint no notion of settin' up in the pool or pond
business, at my age."

"And then," sez I reasonably, "the canal runs jest down below our orchard, and if we run short,
we could get all the water we wanted from there.  And we have got two good cisterns and a well
on the place."

Sez he, "What I mean is, bettin' on a horse.  Do you want to bet on which horse will go the
fastest, the black one or the bay one?"

"No," sez I, "I don't want to bet."

But he kep' on a urgin' me, and thinkin' I had disappinted him in sellin' a pool, or rather
pond, I thought it wouldn't hurt me to kinder gin in to him in this, so I sez mildly, "Bettin'
is sunthin' I don't believe in, but seein' I have disappinted you in sellin' your water power,
I don't know as it would be wicked to humor you in this and say it to please you.  You say
the bay horse is the best, so I'll say for jest this once - There!  I'll bet the bay one will
go the best."

"Where is your money?" sez he.  "It is five dollars for a bet. You pay five dollars and you
have a chance to get back mebby 100."

I riz right up in feerful dignity, and the buggy and I sez that one feerful word to him, "Gamblin'!"
He sort a quailed.  But sez he, "you had better take a five-dollar chance on the bay horse."

"No," sez I, with a freezin' coldness, that must have made his ears fairly tingle it wuz so
cold, "no I shall not gamble, neither on foot nor on horseback."

Then I sot down and I sez in the same lofty tones to Josiah Allen, "Drive on, Josiah, instantly
and to once."

He too had heerd the fearful word and his princeples too wuz rousted up.  He driv right on
rapidly, out of the gate and into the highway.  But as he druv on fast and almost furius I
heerd him murmur words to himself, that accounted for his eager looks while the man wuz dickerin'
about the pool.  He sez, "It is dumb hard work pumpin' water for so many head of cattle." 
He thought a pool would come handy, so I see.  But it wuz all done and I would have done the
same thing if it was to do over agin, so I didn't say nuthin', but kep' a serene silence, and
let him drive along in quiet; and anon, I see the turbelence of his feelin's subsided in a measure. 

Water, figurines, the easy habit of tog, then silk, velvet, the hat
... - Hat! - Exclaimed John in the height of stupefaction. - Yes,
and you can not imagine how good he falls.

It seems that has taken
him a lifetime ... You remember the handkerchief on the head with
the pick up and the loop?

... Who knew! What transitions! ... What I say ... Those who have genius, learning in the blink
of an eye. The Spanish race is huge, man, for the assimilation of all that part of the way ... But if you had
to see you ...! Yo, I confess, I was amazed, absorbed, soak ... Oh my God, came Jacinta, and Villalonga
had to sidestep very violent ... "I tell you I was astounded. Salmeron's
speech was admirable ... but most admirable ... I still think I'm
seeing that face of the son of the desert, and that horizontal movement
of the eyes and the gallantry of gestures.

Great man, but I thought: 'Do not worth your philosophies, you've
got a great, and see the army you have.

" He spoke after Castelar. What discursazo!, What value of man!,
How they grew!

It seemed to touch the ceiling. When he concluded: 'A vote, to vote ...'». Jacinta out again without
saying anything. He suspected that in his absence perhaps the villains talking about another matter,
and left with the intention of returning and cautious approach. "And the man ... Who was he? "Asked
the Dauphin I felt the heat of a feverish curiosity. - Ii - I'll tell you ... since I saw him, I said,
'I know that face. " But I could not fall into who he was. Pez came and talked ... He also wanted
to recognize.

We devanábamos brains. Finally we realized that we had seen days earlier in that subject at the office
of director of the Treasury. I believe that this payment was talking
about guns ordered from England.

You have a Catalan accent, mustache and goatee spends ... fifty years
... quite unpleasant.

As you will see, like Joaquin and I watched both, the guy that is
scales.

She did not seem as shameful timaba ... ... And how cute she was
with her shame!

Remember
that discolored palm with black capes? So much improved, because it is thicker, more full of face
and body. Santa Cruz was a little stunned.

Barbarita voice was heard that came with your daughter. "I left ...-- stampede followed Villalonga
- a announce to the friends who had started the vote ... At your feet, Barbarita ... I well, and you?
Here was counting ... Then said I ran ...». - Towards Greda Street. - No ... friends had moved to a
house on Calle de Alcalá, Casa-Irujo, which has windows to the park
from the Ministry of War ... I climb and I am very discouraged them.

I looked with them to the windows overlooking Buenavista, and saw nothing ... "But when to expect?
What are you thinking ?...». Honestly, I thought that the blow had flattened and Pavia dared
not throw the troops into the streets. Serrano, impatient, cleaned the windows fogged, to
look, and nothing could be seen below.

"My general - I said - I see a black belt, so suddenly in the dark
of night, like a socket ... Look good, do not be a line of men ?».--
"And what do they do there against the wall ?».--« You see, you see,
the base moves.

It looks like a snake around the entire building and is now unscrewed
... You see, ... the tip extends into the ramps are ».--« Soldiers
- whispered the general, and at the same moment came four inches Zalamero
with speaking out, saying: "The vote follows: the advantage that led
to the top Salmerón Castelar now takes ... nine votes ... but yet
to be half the Congress vote ...». anxiety on all sides ... I was
playing then go there, to bring the final outcome of the vote ...
After, after ... Turco pick up my street, and entering Congress, I
met a journalist who went out: "The proposition has ten votes ahead.

We Handle ministry. "Pobre Emilio! ... I. In the room were voting and the top rows. I took a look
and left. I turned the corner, thinking about what he had seen in Buenavista, the black ribbon threaded
into the building ... Figueras went up the ladder of the watch, and
I said, 'You do think, will there brawl tonight?

" . And I replied: 'Go away quiet teacher, there will be nothing ...». "I think - said with
sarcasm - that this goes Pateta. I laughed. And a little goes a doorman, and I said very calmly
in the world, the street of the guilder had troops. "Really? Visions of you. What troops or
my foot! ". I was new. I stuck my snout in the door of the clock. "I do not move from here - I
thought, looking at the table -. Now you will see what is cinnamon ...». were reading the outcome
of the vote. They read the names of all voters without missing one. Suddenly appear through the
door in the corner of several fifths Ferdinand commanded by an officer, and are planted next to the stairs
of the table. They seemed theater troupes. On the other door came an old colonel of the Guardia
Civil.

"Colonel Iglesias - Barbarita said, who wished the story ended -. In good fled the country ... Well,
Jacinto, suppose you have lunch with us. "- Well, I believe - said the Dolphin -. Today was not loose,
and soon mom, it's late. Barbarita and Jacinta left. "And what did Salmerón?. - I put all my
attention on Castelar, and saw him put his hand in the eye and say, what
shame! In the table raised a frightful din ... shouting protests.

Since the watch saw a mass of people, all standing ... Not distinguish the president. ... The fifth
stationary All of a sudden bang, a shot rang out in the hallway ... - He began the rout ...
But tell me something else, boy. I can not keep my thoughts ... Wore a hat, you say? - Who? ... Ah, that!
- Yes, hat, and much pleasure - Buddy said so emphatically as if
it continues narrating the historic event - and elegant blue dress
and velvet coat ... - You are in kidding?

Velvet coat. - Go ... and skins, a superb coat. I liked so much ... Jacinta that came without
warning ... or with the sound of footsteps or in any other way. Villalonga spun on the final concept
as a vane driven by a strong gust of wind. "The coat I wore ... my fur coat ... I mean, in that
I tore a flap breaks loose ... skin flap ...». I mean - When you put under the bench. - I do not
got under no bank, namesake. What I did was put in safety like other so he could thunder . - Look,
look, my dear wife - Santa Cruz said, showing his wife the vest, which
took off just as -.

See how the latter hangs button below.

Will you please tell Rafaela pegárselo or to paste it, or ultimately call the Colonel Iglesias. -
Come here - Jacinta said crossly, coming out again. - I was in great
trouble, camaraíta - Villalonga said with a chuckle -.

Is it a clue? As you will see, other details. She was wearing turquoise earrings, which were divine
grace on that dark complexion pale. Oh, and what God's ears turquoise! I have eaten those. When we
saw them up, we decided to follow the couple to find out where he lived. All the people in
Prague who had watched her, and she seemed to run more than proud.

... We left behind after ... Alcala Street, Hazard, Caballero de Gracia,
 they front, behind us. At last they started back on the streets
of the Fang.

They called the watchman, opened, entered. In a house that is on the
North sidewalk between the store plaster figures and the establishment
of asses milk ... there.

Jacinta came with the vest. - Come ... to see ... Do you send your
ladyship something else? - Nothing more, my dear, thank you very much.

He says this monster who was not afraid and that it went so quiet ... I do not think so. - But fear
of what ... If I was in on it ... I'll tell you the last detail to be surprised. The guns that put
in the mouth Pavia streets were downloaded.

And you see that happened inside.

Two shots into the air, as well as disband the birds perched in a tree when you give him two slaps below
and disbanded the assembly of the Republic. - Lunch is on the table.

Now can you come - said the wife, who came before them worried. -
Stomachs, to defend himself!

Few words the Dauphine had caught the flight which had, in his view, no relation to that of
the Courts, Colonel Church and Ministry Palanca. Undoubtedly the
coast was clear.

It was necessary to discover, pursue and destroy the pirate at all
costs.

In the table the conversation dealt on the same subject, and Villalonga,
after retelling the case with all chapter and verse for the ears D.
Baldomero, added several details that gave color to the story. - Ah!

Castelar had strokes admirable. "And the federal Constitution ?...». - "Burning in Cartagena.
- How well said! - The only one who refused to leave the premises was
Diaz Quintero, which began to shout and struggle with civilian guards
... The deputies and the president left the room through the door
and stood watch at the library to let them out.

Castelar went with two friends on the street of the guilder, and retired to his home, where he
had a severe attack of bile.

These references were loose or news in this sad story as shelled
grapes left on the bottom of the basket after removing clusters.

It was more mature, and
perhaps because of this the tastiest. - Iii - In the following days,
the observer noted Jacinta and suspicious that her husband came home
tired as a man who has gone far.

It was the perfect image of the runner who comes and goes and goes
up stairs and find the business streets without looking.

I was crestfallen as they lose money, as the hunter eager to desperna from mountain to mountain
pass without seeing vermin which may be hunted, like the absent-minded artist who is escaping from
the edge of understanding the idea or image happy for him a world
worth .

His wife tried to recognize him, throwing him the probe of curiosity
which lead were jealous, but the Dauphin kept his thoughts far back
and when he warned probing attempts, found himself further down yet.

It was the poor Juanito Santa Cruz submitted to horrific ordeal of a fixed idea. He went out, investigated,
searched, and women that, vision unlikely to upset Villalonga had not appeared anywhere. Is it
dream or fiction vain sense of his friend? The caretaker of the house indicated by Jacinto was paid
to give any information of it demanded, but only of benefit that John
got from his indiscretion was complacent in the second guesthouse
had lived a man and a woman, "she dame "for two days only.

After they had disappeared ... The caretaker stated with remarkable acuity that, in his opinion,
the man had gone away by train, and the individual, ma'am ... or whatever ... walked around Madrid.
But where the hell were you? This was what had to be ascertained.

With all his talent could not be satisfactorily explained Juan interest, curiosity or loving desire awoke
in him a person who had seen two years earlier with indifference
and even revulsion.

           
           The shape, the sly way, the soul
           
           of the world was to blame.

There was enough that the
unhappy young woman abandoned, miserable and maybe smelly adventurous
melts into the elegant, clean and attractive, to the disdain of the
man of the century, which pays homage to the art staff, was changed
into a burning desire to see themselves that transformation itself
admirable, this marvel of our age of silk.

"If this is nothing more than curiosity, curiosity ...-- was said
Santa Cruz, heating up its troubled soul -.

Certainly when I see it stay just like that, but I want her, want to
see it at all costs.

.. and until we see it, I will not believe the metamorphosis. " And this idea dominated him
so, that their search unsuccessful producíale unspeakable pain, and was exalted, and finally
He imagined that was on him a great, irreparable misfortune.

To end of boring and disorder, a day was Villalonga with new stories. "I learned that that man
is a shyster ... No longer in Madrid.

What of the rifles was a scam ... counterfeit letters.

"- But it ... - She has seen yesterday Joaquín Pez ... Calm down, man, do not go to give something.
Where do you say? Then by some unknown street. The street does not matter. She was dressed with
the utmost humility ... You say, like me, and velvet coat? ... What about the hat? ... And the
turquoise? ... It seems to me that I still had Joaquin said the turquoise ... No, no, did not say
this, because if they had been I should not have seen. I was on my headscarf, whether knotted under
the chin, and a black shawl of much use, and a large bundle of clothes
in hand ... Can you explain this?

Right? Well, I do ... The coat was a mess, and perhaps other items of clothing ... - As if I
saw it - Johnny said with a quick insight -.

Joaquin saw her go into a pawnshop. - Man, what talentazo you! ... Green with handle ... - But
did not see her leave, no later followed to see where you live? - That I touched you ... Also he would
have done. But consider, Christian soul, that Joaquin is the Board of Tariffs and valuations, and
just had meeting that afternoon, and our friend went to the ministry with the timeliness of a Fish.
John stayed behind with this news more thoughtful and worse mood,
feeling intensifies symptoms of evil suffered, and mainly stayed in
her imagination, evil spirits with a mixture of nervous unleash accentuated
by the disappointment.

Why was despised when he was, and asked when it became very different
what was it? ... The rogue ideal, alas, how will the eternal? And
poor Jacinta, all these, descrismándose demonches to find out what
pleases or mania seized the minds of his intelligent husband.

This was always considerate and kind to her she did not want him
to complain, but to achieve it needed to appeal to his own damaged
mind, take your wife in ways that did not have, and requires wider
shoulders, taller, woman, paler ... and those in the turquoise ears
... If Jacinta comes to discover this secret escondidísimo the soul
of Juanito Santa Cruz, fixed for divorce.

But these things were very deep in the deepest caverns to the bottom
of the sea and not come to her Jacinta probe nor all the lead in the
world.

Every day dominated by his frenzy researcher, visited Santa Cruz different houses, each worse
reputation than others, those mysterious, these available to the public. Not finding what you're
looking at what appears higher He descended from step to step, visited places he had been a few times
and others where there had never been. Found familiar faces and friends, unfamiliar faces and disgusting,
and all asked for news, looking curious choice to typhus that consumed him. No longer touch a
door behind which they could hide the shame shameful loss or destruction.

Their explanations seemed what they were not the ardor with which he practiced and the humanitarian
nature that wore. It looked like a father, a brother who looks to the garment desalted loved one who
has fallen in the dark labyrinth of vice.

And I wanted to explain away his concern and even Christian philanthropic reasons he drew from his rich
understanding sophistries. "It is a matter of conscience. I can not let it fall into the misery
and abjection, being, as I am responsible ... Oh, my wife forgive me, but a wife, intelligent,
can not bear the moral reasons, yes, moral I have to proceed in this way. "And whenever I went by
night through the streets, all black or brown package seemed to him that it was seeking. Ran,
looked closely ... and was not. At times he felt distinguish it from afar, and the shape is lost
in the crowd like a drop in the water. The human silhouettes in the
dark clear the moving crowd seem whisked away in the corners and doorways,
brought him decomposed and alarmed.

Women saw many in the dark here, there, illuminated by the clarity of the stores, but hers did
not appear. Entered all the cafes, even in some bars came, sometimes
alone, sometimes accompanied by Villalonga. I went with the certainty
of finding in this or that part, but to get the picture that went
with it, as a creature of his own eyes faded into reality.

"It seems that wherever I go - said with profound boredom - took his disappearance, and I'm condemned
to banish it from my view with my desire to see it!." Villalonga told him he ought to be patient, but
his friend did not have it, was losing the serenity of his character, and lamented that a
man so serious and well balanced as he so upset a mere whim, a toughness of mind, restlessness of unsatisfied
curiosity. "Things of nerves, right Jacintillo? This mischievous imagination ... It's like when you
was sick and delirious waiting to see out a letter that never left.

Frankly, I thought I was stronger against this terrible neurosis of the letter does not come out. "A very
cold night, entered the Dauphin in house is not too late, in a sorry state. He felt bad,
unable to pinpoint what it was. Sank down in a chair and leaned on
one side with signs of intense pain. He went to his loving wife, very
frightened to see him and hear the moans and pitiful that escaped
his lips, along with an ugly expression that easily forgives men who
have.

"What are you, little baby?". The dolphin is hand pressed the left
side.

Jacinta thought at first that her husband had stuck a knife. She screamed
... looked, I had no blood ... "Ah!

Are you hurt? ... Poor child!

That would be cool ... Wait, I'll put a hot cloth ... give you rubbed with ... Barbarita ...». came
with arnica and his son looked alarmed, but before making any choice, threw it a good scolding because
did not attempt the North crudísimo dry wind in those days ruled. So
John began to shiver, giving teeth chattered. The cold was so severe
he fell into the words of complaint out of her mouth and sprayed. The
mother and wife watched in horror consulted with one another in silence
on the severity of those symptoms ... Madrid is far east.

Sale of hunting a Christian through the streets, night after night. Where is the beef? Pull over
here, pull over there, and nothing. The answer does not fall. And the more neglected is the
hunter, is creeping up behind the thin pneumonia, he says, pulls,
and lets me dry. .-- Madrid in January 1886.

END OF THE FIRST PART * * * * * Part II-I-Maximiliano Rubin - i - The venerable store gold handle
that since time immemorial was in the arcades of silver, the streets
of San Felipe Neri and Hunting disappeared, if I mistake not, in the
early days of the revolution of '68.

Fell on the same date, then, two things secular, the throne that
he and the store, if not as old as the Spanish monarchy, but the Bourbons
eral, since its foundation dating back to 1640, as a sign saying very
badly painted in the shelving.

This establishment had only one door, and above it this short sign:
Rubin.

Federico Ruiz, who had years has a habit of writing articles on the Dark but unmistakable traces of
the Jewish race in modern Spain (items which made him a pamphlet publishers of the magazine that
published for free), argued that Rubin's name was Jewish and was
used by some converts who remained here after the expulsion.

  "Don't you see the place at the side for 'em to draw the Toboggen up, and
the little flights of steps for 'em to go up the hill?"

"Wall," sez I, in deep amaze, and auxins as ever to get information on deep subjects, "where
duz the fun come in, is it in walkin' way over the plain and up the hills, or is it in comin'
down?"

And she said she didn't know exactly where the fun lay, but she s'posed it wuz comin' down.
Anyway, they seemed to enjoy it first rate.  And she said it wuz a pretty sight to see 'em
all on a bright clear night, when the sky wuz blue and full of stars, and the earth white and
glistenin' underneath to see 7 or 800, all dressed up in to gayest way, suits of white blankets,
gay borders and bright tasseled caps of every color, and suits of every other pretty color
all trimmed with fur and embroideries, to see 'em all a laughin' and a talkin', with their
cheeks and eyes bright and glowin', to see 'em a comin' down the slide like flashes of every
colored light, and away out over the white glistenin' plains; and then to see the long line
of happy laughin' creeters a walkin' back agin' drawin' the gay Toboggens.  She said it wuz
a sight worth seein'.

"Do they come down alone?" sez Josiah.

"Oh no!" sez she.  "Boys and their sweethearts, men and wives, fathers and mothers and children,
sometimes 4 on a Toboggan."

Sez Josiah, lookin' anamated and clever, "I'd love to take you on one on 'em, Samantha.'

"Oh no!" sez I, "I wouldn't want to be took."

But a bystander a standin' by said it wuz a sight to behold to stand up on top and start off.
He said the swiftness of the motion, the brightness of the electric lights ahead, the gleam
of the snow made it seem like plungin' down a dazzlin' Niagara of whiteness and glitterin'
light; and some, like bein' shot out of a cannon.  Why, he said they went with such lightnin'
speed, that if you stood clost by the slide a waitin' to see a friend go by, you might stand
so near as to touch her, but you couldn't no more see her to recognize her, than you could
recognize one spoke from another in the wheel of a runaway carriage.  You would jest see a
red flash go by, if so be it wuz a red gown she had on.  A red flash a dartin' through the
air, and a disappearin' down the long glitterin' lane of light.

You could see her a goin' back, so they said, a laughin' and a jokin' with somebody, if so
be she walked back, but there wuz long sleighs to carry 'em back, them and their Toboggens,
if they wanted to ride, at the small expenditure of 10 cents apiece. They go, in the fastest
time anybody can make till they go on the lightnin', a way in which they will go before long,
I think, and Josiah duz too.

"They said there wuzn't nothin' like it.  And I said, "Like as not."  I believed 'em.  And
then the woman said, "This long room we wuz a standin' in," for we had gone back into the house,
durin' our interview, this long room wuz all warm and light for 'em to come into and get warm,
and she said as many as 600 in a night would come in there and have supper there.

And then she showed us the model of a Toboggen, all sculped out, with a man and a woman on
it.  The girl wuz ahead sort a drawin' the Toboggen, as you may say, and her lover.  (I know
he wuz, from his looks.)  He wuz behind her, with his face right clost to her shoulder.

And I'll bet that when they started down that gleamin' slide, they felt as if they 2 wuz alone
under the stars and the heavens, and wuz a glidin' down into a dazzlin' way of glory.  You
could see it in their faces.  I liked their faces real well.

But the sight on 'em made Josiah Allen crazier'n ever to go too, and he sez, "I feel as if
I must Toboggen, Samantha!"

Sez I, "Be calm! Josiah, you can't slide down hill in July."

"How do you know?" sez he, "I'm bound to enquire."  And he asked the woman if they ever Toboggened
in the summer.

"No, never!" sez she.

And I sez, "You see it can't be done."

"She never see it tried," sez he.  "How can you tell what you can do without tryin'?" sez he
lookin' shrewdly, and longingly, up the slide.  I trembled, for I knew not what the next move
of his would be.  But I bethought me of a powerful weepon I had by me. And I sez, "The driver
will ask pay for every minute we are here."

And as I sez this, Josiah turned and almost flew down the steps and into the buggy.  I had
skairt him.  Truly I felt relieved, and sez I to myself, "What would wimmen do if it wuzn't
for these little weepons they hold in their hands, to control their pardners with."  I felt happy.

But the next words of Josiah knocked down all that palace of Peace, that my soul had betook
herself to.  Sez he, "Samantha Allen, before I leave Saratoga I shall Toboggen."

Wall, I immegetly turned the subject round and talked wildly and almost incoherently on politicks.
I praised the tariff amost beyond its deserts.  I brung up our foreign relations, and spoke
well on 'em.  I tackled revenues and taxation, and hurried him from one to the other on 'em,
almost wildly, to get the idee out of his head.  And I congratulated myself on havin' succeeded.
Alas! how futile is our hopes, sometimes futiler than we have any idee on!

By night all thoughts of danger had left me, and I slept sweetly and peacefully.  But early
in the mornin' I had a strange dream. I dreamed I wuz in the woods with my head a layin' on
a log, and the ground felt cold that I wuz a layin' on.  And then the log gin way with me,
and my head came down onto the ground.  And then I slept peaceful agin, but chilly, till anon,
or about that time, I beard a strange sound and I waked up with a start.  It wuz in the first
faint glow of mornin' twilight.  But as faint as the light wuz, for the eye of love is keen,
I missed my beloved pardner's head from the opposite pillow, and I riz up in wild agitation
and thinkses I, "Has rapine took place here; has Josiah Allen been abducted away from me? 
Is he a kidnapped Josiah?"

At that fearful thought my heart begun to beat so voyalently as to almost stop my breath, and
I felt I wuz growin' pale and wan, wanner, fur wanner than I had been sense I came to Saratoga.
I love Josiah Allen, he is dear to me.

And I riz up feelin' that I would find that dear man and rescue him or perish in the attempt.
Yes, I felt that I must perish if I did not find him.  What would life be to me without him?
And as I thought that thought the light of the day that wuz a breakin', looked sort of a faint
to me, and sickish.  And like a flash it came to me, the thought that that light seemed like
the miserable dawns of wretched days without him, a pale light with no warmth or brightness in it.

But at that very minute I heard a noise outside the door, and I heard that beloved voice a
sayin' in low axents the words I had so often heard him speak, words I had oft rebuked him
for, but now, so weak will human love make one, now, I welcome them gladly -- they sounded
exquisitely sweet to me.  The words wuz, "Dumb 'em!"

And I joyfully opened the door.  But oh! what a sight met my eye. There stood Josiah Allen,
arrayed in a blanket he had took from our bed (that accounted for my cold feelin' in my dream).
The blanket wuz white, with a gay border of red and yellow.  He had fixed it onto him in a
sort of a dressy way, and strapped it round the waist with my shawl strap.  And he had took
a bright yeller silk handkerchief of hisen, and had wrapped it round his head so's it hung
down some like a cap, and he wuz a tryin' to fasten it round his forward with one of my stockin'
supporters. He couldn't buckle it, and that is what called forth his exclamations.  At his
feet, partly upon the stairs, wuz the bolster from our bed (that accounted for the log that
had gin way).  And he had spread a little red shawl of mine over the top on't, and as I opened
the door he wuz jest ready to embark on the bolster, he waz jest a steppin' onto it.  But as
he see me he paused, and I sez in low axents, "What are you a goin' to do, Josiah Allen?"

"I'm a goin' to Toboggen," sez he.

Sez I, "Do you stop at once, and come back into your room."

"No, no!" sez he firmly, and preparin' to embark on the bolster, "I am a goin' to Toboggen.
And you come and go to.  It is so fashionable," sez he, "such a genteel diversion."

Sez I, "Do you stop it at once, and come back to your room. Why," sez I, "the hull house will
be routed up, and be up here in a minute."

"Wall," sez he, "they'll see fun if they do and fashion.  I am a goin', Samantha!" and be stepped
forward.

Sez I, "They'll see sunthin' else that begins with a f, but it haint fun or fashion.'  And
agin I sez, "Do you come back, Josiah Allen.  You'll break your neck and rout up the house,
and be called a fool."

"Oh no, Samantha! I must Toboggen.  I must go down the slide once."  And he fixed the bolster
more firmly on the top stair.

"Wall," sez I, feelin' that I wuz drove to my last ambush by him, sez I, "probably five dollars
won't make the expenses good, besides your doctor's bill, and my mornin'.  And I shall put
on the deepest of crape, Josiah Allen," sez I.

I see he wavered and I pressed the charge home.  Sez I, "That bolster is thin cloth, Josiah
Allen, and you'll probably have to pay now for draggin' it all over the floor.  If anybody
should see you with it there, that bolster would be charged in your bill.  And how would it
look to the neighbors to have a bolster charged in your bill?  And I should treasure it, Josiah
Allen, as bein' the last bill you made before you broke your neck !"

"Oh, wall," sez he, "I s'pose I can put the bolster back."  But he wuz snappish, and he kep'
snappish all day.

He wuzn't quelled.  Though he had gin in for the time bein' I see he wuzn't quelled down. 
He acted dissatisfied and highheaded, and I felt worried in my mind, not knowin' what his next
move would be.

Oh! the tribulations it makes a woman to take care of a man.  But then it pays.  After all,
in the deepest of my tribulations I feel, I do the most of the time feel, that it pays.  When
he is good he is dretful good.

Wall, I went over to see Polly Pixley the next night, and when I got back to my room, there
stood Josiah Allen with both of his feet sort a bandaged and tied down onto sumthin', which
I didn't at first recognize.  It waz big and sort a egg shaped, and open worked, and both his
feet wuz strapped down tight onto it, and he wuz a pushin' himself round the room with his
umberell.

And I sez, "What is the matter now, Josiah Allen; what are you a doin' now?"

"Oh I am a walkin' on snow-shoes, Samantha!  But I don't see," sez he a stoppin' to rest, for
he seemed tuckered out, "I don't see how the savages got round as they did and performed such
journeys.  You put 'em on, Samantha," sez he, "and see if you can get on any faster in 'em."

Sez I, coldly, "The savages probable did'nt have both feet on one shoe, Josiah Allen, as you
have.  I shall put on no snowshoes in the middle of July; but if I did, I should put 'em on
accordin' to a little mite of sense.  I should try to use as much sense as a savage any way."

"Why, how it would look to have one foot on that great big snow-shoe.  I always did like a
good close fit in my shoes.  And you see I have room enough and to spare for both on 'em on
this. Why it wouldn't look dressy at all, Samantha, to put 'em on as you say."

Sez I very coldly, "I don't see anything over and above dressy in your looks now, Josiah Allen,
with both of your feet tied down onto that one shoe, and you a tryin' to move off when you
can't. I can't see anything over and above ornamental in it, Josiah Allen."

"Oh! you are never willin' to give in that I look dressy, Samantha.  But I s'pose I can put
my feet where you say.  You are so sot, but they are too big for me -- I shall look like a fool."

I looked at him calmly over my specks, and sez I, "I guess I sha'n't notice the difference
or realize the change.  I wonder," sez I, in middlin' cold axents, "how you think you are a
lookin' now, Josiah Allen."

"Oh! keep a naggin' at me!" sez he.  But I see he wuz a gittin' kinder sick of the idee.

"What you mean by puttin' 'em on at all is more than I can say," sez I, "a tryin to walk on
snowshoes right in dog-days."

"I put 'em on," Samantha, sez he, a beginnin' to unstrap 'em, "I put 'em on because I wanted
to feel like a savage."

"Wall," sez I, "I have seen you at times durin' the last 20 years, when I thought you realized
how they felt without snow-shoes on, either."

(These little interchanges of confidence will take place in every-day life.)  But at that very
minute Ardelia Tutt rapped at the door, and Josiah hustled them snow-shoes into the closet,
and that wuz the last trial I had with him about 'em.  He had borrowed 'em.

Wall, Ardelia wuz dretful pensive, and soft actin' that night, she seemed real tickled to see
us, and to get where we wuz.  She haint over and above suited with the boardin' place where
she is, I think.  I don't believe they have very good food, though she won't complain, bein'
as they are relations on her own side.  And then she is sech a good little creeter anyway.
But I had my suspicions.  She didn't seem very happy.  She said she had been down to the park
that afternoon, she and the young chap that has been a payin' her so much attention lately,
Bial Flamburg.  She said they had sot down there by the deer park most all the afternoon a
watchin' the deer.  She spoke dretful well of the deer.  And they are likely deer for anything
I know.  But she seemed sort a pensive and low spirited.  Mebby she is a beginnin' to find
Bial Flamburg out.  Mebby she is a beginnin' to not like his ways.  He drinks and smokes, that
I know, and I've mistrusted worse things on him.

XIV.

LAKE GEORGE AND MOUNT McGREGOR.

It wuz on a nice pleasant day that Ardelia Tuit, Josiah Allen, and me, met by previous agreement
quite early in the mornin', A. M., and sot out for Lake George.  It is so nigh, that you can
step onto the cars, and go out and see George any time of day.

It seemed to me jest as if George wuz glad we had come, for there wuz a broad happy smile all
over his face, and a sort of a dimplin' look, as if he wanted to laugh right out.  All the
beckonin' shores and islands, with their beautiful houses on 'em, and the distant forests,
and the trees a bendin' over George, all seemed to sort a smile out a welcome to us.  We had
a most beautiful day, and got back quite late in the afternoon, P. M.

And the next day, a day heavenly calm and fair, Josiah Allen and me sot sail for Mount McGregor
-- that mountain top that is lifted up higher in the hearts of Americans than any other peak
on the continent -- fur higher.  For it is the place where the memory of a Hero lays over all
the peaceful landscape like a inspiration and a benediction, and will rest there forever.

The railroad winds round and round the mountain sometimes not seemin'ly goin' up at all, but
gradually a movin' in' on towards the top, jest as this brave Hero did in his career.  If some
of the time he didn't seem to move on, or if some of the time he seemed to go back for a little,
yet there wuz a deathless fire inside on him, a power, a strength that kep' him a goin' up,
up, up, and drawin' the nation up with him onto the safe level ground of Victory.

We got pleasant glimpses of beauty, pretty pictures on't, every little while as we wended our
way on up the mountains. Reacted, and was at that moment to reveal everything he felt for her, when
Martin and his parents came, and the outcome had been presented many times on that day, was again
cut short.

It was necessary to start, hello to all and held out my hand warmly
Val, but she dropped hers in mine with indifference, while the other
flowed from her waist bouquet of jasmine and dropping withered on the
piano.

I felt oprimírseme the heart, and when I reached the street, two tears, which seemed blood gushed
from my eyes and ran down his face.

X few months after leaving the school where he had spent years so
sad.

Martin, who had already gone too, was with his family in the countryside
and therefore could not say goodbye to Valentina.

My uncle was waiting in Buenos Aires with a placement in a commercial house, I came to Buenos Aires
and met my aunt as bad as usual, always dominated by politics, always
taking part in all significant events that took place.

It was six years since I saw it, and yet, I did minimal compliance even the smallest kindness
to my arrival. He had gained so much weight and his sanguine temperament had developed considerably.
My uncle was the same.

The only one not in the house was Alejandro: the rogue Brown had
kept his promise, one day a terrible argument with my aunt, the horses
bolted down the slope of the violent Canyon Landeau Recoleta and overturned
in a ditch This was shattered and mangled my aunt who was hoisted
through the window with his cap on his neck and dressed in an inconvenient
mess.

I had changed in twenty years things in Buenos Aires! Dr. Trevexo, the
cleverest man of his time, he, diplomat, lawyer and journalist ablest
of the Republic, had disappeared from public sight, and had only spent
twenty years!

The shopkeepers at that time had died or had closed their shops, no longer ruled the public. My Aunt
Medea had taken part in two revolutions ching and belonged to the opposition.
  They looked some like a stanchol for a horse, and
some like a pair of galluses that criminals are hung on.

Josiah wuzn't able to work it right and it did require a deep mind to get into one without
peril.  And he wuz on the brink of a catastrophe.  I got him out by siezin' the chair and holdin'
it tight, till he dismounted from it -- which he did with words unadapted to the serenity of
the atmosphere.  And then we went out the broad pleasant door-yard up into the tarven, and
my companion got some coffee, and some refreshments, to refresh ourselves with.  And then he,
feelin' clever and real affectionate to me (owin' partly I s'pose to the good dinner), we wended
our way down to the cottage where the Hero met his last foe and fell victorious.

We went up the broad steps onto the piazza, and I looked off from it, and over all the landscape
under the soft summer sky, lay that same beautiful tender inspired memory.  It lay like the
hush that follows a prayer at a dyin' bed.  Like the glow that rests on the world when the
sun has gone down in glory.  Like the silence full of voices that follows a oriter's inspired
words.

The air, the whole place, thrilled with that memory, that presence that wuz with us, though
unseen to the eyes of our spectacles.  It followed us through the door way, it went ahead on
us into the room where the pen wuz laid down for the last time, where the last words wuz said.
That pen wuz hung up over the bed where the tired head had rested last.  By the bedside wuz
the candle blowed out, when he got to the place where it is so light they don't need candles. The
figure for a moment that I can forgive her is a new insult, it is an idea that a soul can only be
as miserable as theirs. - Forgiveness never degrades.

It is the virtue that most ennobles human being - the cleric said, surprised. D. Álvaro stuck
a long look angry.

After disdainfully shrugged and said: - OK: let it.

What matters is that, since it has brought, will take you immediately
to that lady. - I would beg her to, but not forgive, we allow at least
talk to you ... You may have to make some disclosures. - I'm curious.

You can keep his revelations or entrust to whom he pleases ... For my part (you hear what I'm going
to tell you) - while she took the doll with clenched hand, - for
my part, now or ever will cross the floor with her ... You can tell
them.

Father Gil dropped his head and remained silent while the primogeniture began pacing restlessly
around the room with his hands in his pockets.

From time to time he drew on his face a sarcastic smile and let out through the nose a slight
huff accusing tension your spirit, reveals the tension whistle steam
boiler. - Since it can not be - said after a while the priest gently,
- you understand, D. Álvaro, this woman can not go to sleep outside
the house without giving fuel to the gossip, without renewing talks
should not be renewed.

For selfishness, if not for charity, should you allow your wife sleep in this house today because I
do not think that suits you shock the population.

D. Álvaro continued its rough ride without a word, as if he had not heard the proposition of the
priest. After a while he stood in front of him and staring at him, said: - Okay. Tell him, if
you like, there is no objection to sleep in this house ... although
very little is needed dignity to accept - lowering his voice and emphasizing
the syllables .-- And if you want money for the trip back, Osuna will
provide it. - I thank you for this courtesy, but I leave sorry - replied
smiling P. Gil .-- Any sacrifice would be to erase from his memory
the offense received and again welded chain of their marriage.

How would this time be a man eloquent! ... - The eloquence, Mr. toilets,
has served in this world to committing large vile, but I think it would
be no greater than that which you propose. - For you are a vile what
for me would be a noble and generous act, himself a follower of Christ.

We understand in regard to what is dignity or indignity ... - I'm sorry for you, father - said the
primogeniture, extending his hand. - And I for you, D. Álvaro.

Good night. When he was alone he He walked a few more moments, then stood at the bell rope and pulled
hard.

Not long in coming Ramiro. - The woman is there ... You want me to
take? - Asked the old man, without waiting for his master's orders.
- No. Lead them to the room, turn on all lights and tell Dolores that
you upload.

The servant stood still, looking at him with surprise. - - Are you going to allow that ... - Silence!
- mayorazgo energetically exclaimed, bringing his finger to his lips .-- Do as I say immediately.
The old man walked away grumbling.

At once the maiden. - Dolores, tell the cook to prepare dinner for the lady who is down, and to do all he
knows. Light up the room, take out the fine china, blue and manages the cabinet cabinet making better clothes
to put on the bed ... You do not miss anything

.


And when hastened on by the shock, and the suspense, death seemed to be near him, so near that
it seemed as if the burden must needs be light -- the tardy justice that came to him must have
seemed like an insult, but if he thought so he never said it; no, brave and patient, he wuz
on duty.

And all through the long, long time that he looked through the shadows for a more sure foe
than had ever lain in Southern ambush for him, he wuz on duty.  Not an impatient word, not
an anxious word.  Of all the feerin', doubtin', hopin', achin' hearts about him, he only wuz calm.

For, not only his own dear ones, but the hull country, friends and foes alike, as if learnin'
through fear of his loss how grand a hero he wuz, and how greatly and entirely he wuz beloved
by them all, they sent up to Heaven such a great cloud of prayers for his safety as never rose
for any man.  But he only wuz calm, while the hull world wuz excited in his behalf.

For the sight of his patient work, the sight of him who stopped dyin' (as it were) to earn
by his own brave honest hand the future comfort of his family, amazed, and wonderin' at this
spectacle, one of the greatest it seems to me that ever wuz seen on earth, the hull nation
turned to him in such a full hearted love, and admiration, and worship, that they forgot in
their quicker adorin' heart-throbs, the slower meaner throbs they had gin him, this same brave
Hero, jest as brave and true-hearted in the past as he wuz on his grand death-bed.

They forgot everything that had gone by in their worship, and I don't know but I ort to.  Mebby
I had.  I shouldn't wonder a mite if I had.  But all the while, all through the agony and the
labor, and when too wearied he lay down the pen, -- he wuz on duty.

Waitin' patiently, fearlessly, till he should see in the first glow of the sunrise the form
of the angel comin' to relieve his watch, the tall, fair angel of Rest, that the Great Commander
sent down in the mornin' watches to relieve his weary soldier, that divinest angel that ever
comes to the abode of men, though her beauty shines forever through tears, led by her hand,
he has left life's battle-field forever; and what is left to this nation but memory, love,
and mebby remorse.

But little matters it to him, the Nation's love or the Nation's blame, restin' there by the
calm waters he loved.  The tides come in, and the tides go out; jest as they did in his life;
the fickle tide of public favor that swept by him, movin' him not on his heavenly mission of
duty and patriotism.

The tides go out, and the tides come in; the wind wails and the wind sings its sweet summer
songs; but he does not mind the melody or the clamor.  He is resting.  Sleep on, Hero beloved,
while the world wakes to praise thee.

Wall, we sot sail from Mount McGregor about half-past four P. M., afternoon.  And we wound
round and round the mountain side jest as he did, only goin' down into the valley instid of
upwards. But the trees that clothed the bare back of the mountain looked green and shinin'
in the late afternoon sunlight, and the fields spread out in the valley looked green and peaceful
under the cool shadows of approachin' sunset.

And right in the midst of one of these fields, all full of white daisies, the cars stopped
and the conductor sung out: "Five minutes' stop at Daisy station.  Five minutes to get out
and pick daisies."

And sez Josiah to me in gruff axents, when I asked him if he wuz goin' to get out and pick
some.  Sez he, "Samantha, no man can go ahead of me in hatin' the dumb weeds, and doin' his
best towards uprootin' 'em in my own land; and I deeply sympathize with any man who is over
run by 'em.  But why am I beholdin' to the man that owns this lot?  Why should I and all the
rest of this carload of folks, all dressed up in our best too, lay hold and weed out these
infernal nuisances for nothin'?"

Yes, he said these fearfully profane words to me and I herd him in silence, for I did not want
to make a seen in public.  Sez I, "Josiah, they are pickin' 'em because they love 'em."

"Love 'em!"  Oh, the fearful, scornful unbelievin' look that came over my pardner's face, as
I said these peaceful words to him. And he added a expletive which I am fur from bein' urged
to ever repeat.  It wuz sinful.

"Love 'em!"  Agin he sez.  And agin follerd a expletive that wuz still more forcible, and still
more sinful.  And I felt obliged to check him which I did.  And after a long parlay, in which
I used my best endeavors of argument and reason to convince him that I wuz in the right on't,
I see he wuzn't convinced.  And then I spoke about its bein' fashionable to get out and pick
'em, and he looked different to once.  I could see a change in him. All my arguments of the
beauty and sweetness of the posies had no effect, but when I said fashionable, he faltered,
and he sez, "Is it called a genteel diversion?"

And I sez, "Yes."

And finally he sez, "Wall, I s'pose I can go out and pick some for you.  Dumb their dumb picters."

Sez I, "Don't go in that spirit, Josiah Allen."

"Wall, I shall go in jest that sprit," he snapped out, "if I go at all."  And he went.

But oh! it wuz a sight to set and look on, and see the look onto his face, as he picked the
innocent blossoms.  It wuz a look of such deep loathin', and hatred, combined with a sort of
a genteel, fashionable air.

Altogether it wuz the most curius, and strange look, that I ever see outside of a menagery
of wild animals.  And he had that same look onto his face as he came in and gin 'em to me.
He had yanked'em all up by their roots too, which made the Bokay look more strange.  But I
accepted of it in silence, for I see by his mean that he wuz not in a condition to brook another
word.

And I trembled when a bystander a standin' by who wuz arrangin' a beautiful bunch of 'em, a
handlin' 'em as flowers ort to be handled, as if they had a soul, and could feel a rough or
tender touch, -- this man sez to Josiah, "I see that you too love this beautiful blossom."

I wuz glad the man's eyes wuz riveted onto his Bokay, for the ferocity of Josiah Allen's look
wuz sunthin' fearful.  He looked as if he could tear him lim' from lim'.

And I hastily drawed Josiah to a seat at the other end of the car, and voyalently, but firmly,
I drawed his attention off onto Religion.

I sez, "Josiah, do you believe we had better paint the steeple of the meetin'-house, white
or dark colered?"

This wuz a subject that had rent Jonesville to its very twain. And Josiah had been fearfully
exercised on it.  And this plan of mine succeeded.  He got eloquent on it, and I kinder held
off, and talked offish, and let him convince me.

I did it from principle.

XV.

ADVENTURES AT VARIOUS SPRINGS.

A few days after this, Josiah Allen came in, and sez he, "The Everlastin' spring is the one
for me, Samantha!  I believe it will keep me alive for hundreds and hundreds of years."

Sez I, "I don't believe that, Josiah Allen."

"Wall, it is so, whether you believe it or not.  Why, I see a feller just now who sez he don't
believe anybody would ever die at all, if they kep' themselves' kind a wet through all the
time with this water."

Sez I, "Josiah Allen, you are not talkin' Bible.  The Bible sez, 'all flesh is as grass.'"

"Wall, that is what he meant; if the grass wuz watered with that water all the time, it would
never wilt."

"Oh, shaw!" sez I.  (I seldom say shaw, but this seemed to me a time for shawin'.)

But Josiah kep' on, for he wuz fearfully excited.  Sez he, "Why, the feller said, there wuz
a old man who lived right by the side of this spring, and felt the effects of it inside and
out all the time, it wuz so healthy there.  Why the old man kep' on a livin', and a livin'
till he got to be a hundred.  And he wuz kinder lazy naturally and he got tired of livin'.
He said he wuz tired of gettin' up mornin's and dressin' of him, tired of pullin' on his boots
and drawin' on his trowsers, and he told his grandson Sam to take him up to Troy and let him die.

"Wall, Sam took him up to Troy, and he died right away, almost. And Sam bein' a good-hearted
chap, thought it would please the old man to he buried down by the spring, that healthy spot.
So he took him back there in a wagon he borrowed.  And when he got clost to the spring, Sam
heard a sithe, and he looked back, and there the old gentleman wuz a settin' up a leanin' his
head on his elbo and he sez, in a sort of a sad way, not mad, but melanecolly, `You hadn't
ort to don it, Sam.  You hadn't ort to. I'm in now for another hundred years.'"

I told Josiah I didn't believe that.  Sez I, "I believe the waters are good, very good, and
the air is healthy here in the extreme, but I don't believe that."

But he said it wuz a fact, and the feller said he could prove it. "Why," Josiah sez, "with
the minerals there is in that spring, if you only take enough of it, I don't see how anybody
can die." And sez Josiah, "I am a goin' to jest live on that water while I am here."

"Wall," sez I, "you must do as you are a mind to, with fear and tremblin'."

I thought mebby quotin' Scripture to him would kinder quell him down, for he wuz fearfully
agitated and wrought up about the Everlastin' spring.  And he begun at once to calculate on
it, on how much he could drink of it, if he begun early in the mornin' and drinked late at night.

But I kep' on megum.  I drinked the waters that seemed to help me and made me feel better,
but wuz megum in it, and didn't get over excited about any on 'em.  But oh! oh! the quantities
of that water that Josiah Allen took!  Why, it seemed as if he would make a perfect shipwreck
of his own body, and wash himself away, till one day he came in fearful excited agin, and sez
he, in agitated axents, "I made a mistake, Samantha.  The Immortal spring is the one for me."

"Why?" sez I.

"Oh, I have jest seen a feller that has been a tellin' me about it."

"What did he say?" sez I, in calm axents.

"Wall, I'll tell you.  It has acted on my feelin's dretful."  Says he, "I have shed some tears."
(I see Josiah Allen had been a cryin' when he came in.)

And I sez agin, "What is it?"

"Wall," he said, "this man had a dretful sick wife.  And he wuz a carryin' her to the Immortal
spring jest as fast as he could, for he felt it would save her, if he could get her to it.
But she died a mile and a half from the spring.  It wuz night, for he had traveled night and
day to get her there, and the tarvens wuz all shut up, and he laid her on the spring-house
floor, and laid down himself on one of the benches.  He took a drink himself, the last thing
before he laid down, for he felt that he must have sunthin' to sustain him in his affliction.

"Wall, in the night he heard a splashin', and he rousted up, and he see that he had left the
water kinder careless the night before, and it had broke loose and covered the floor and riz
up round the body, and there she wuz, all bright and hearty, a splashin' and a swimmin' round
in the water."  He said the man cried like a child when he told him of it.

And sez Josiah, "It wuz dretful affectin'.  It brought tears from me, to hear on't.  I thought
what if it had been you, Samantha!"

"Wall," sez I, "I don't see no occasion for tears, unless you would have been sorry to had
me brung to."

"Oh!" sez Josiah, "I didn't think!  I guess I have cried in the wrong place."

Sez I coldly, "I should think as much."

And Josiah put on his hat and hurried out.  He meant well.  But it is quite a nack for pardners
to know jest when to cry, and when to laff.

Wall, he follered up that spring, and drinked more, fur more than wuz good for him of that
water.  And then anon, he would hear of another one, and some dretful big story about it, and
he would foller that up, and so it went on, he a follerin' on, and I a bein' megum, and drinkin'
stiddy, but moderate.  And as it might be expected, I gained in health every day, and every
hour.  For the waters is good, there haint no doubt of it.

But Josiah takin' em as he did, bobbin' round from one to the other, drinkin' 'em at all hours
of day and night, and floodin' himself out with 'em, every one on 'em -- why, he lost strength
and health every day, till I felt truly, that if it went on much longer, I should go home in
weeds.  Not mullein, or burdock, or anything of that sort, but crape.

But at last a event occurred that sort a sot him to thinkin' and quelled him down some.  One
day we sot out for a walk, Josiah and Ardelia Tutt and me.  And in spite of all my protestations,
my pardner had drinked 11 glasses full of the spring he wuz a follerin' then.  And he looked
white round the lips as anything. And Ardelia and I wuz a sittin' in a good shady place, and
Josiah a little distance off, when a man ackosted him, a man with black eyes and black whiskers,
and sez, "You look pale, Sir.  What water are you a drinkin'?"

And Josiah told him that at that time he wuz a drinkin' the water from the Immortal spring.

"Drinkin' that water?" sez the man, startin' back horrefied.

"Yes," sez Josiah, turnin' paler than ever, for the man's looks wuz skairful in the extreme.

"Oh! oh!" groaned the man.  "And you are a married man?" he groaned out mournfully, a lookin'
pitifully at him.  "With a family?"

"Yes," sez Josiah, faintly.

"Oh dear," sez the man, "must it be so, to die, so -- so lamented?"

"To die!" sez Josiah, turnin' white jest round the lip.

"Yes, to die!  Did you not say you had been a drinkin' the water from the Immortal spring?"

"Yes," sez Josiah.

"Wall, it is a certain, a deadly poison."

"Haint there no help for me?" sez Josiah.

"Yes," sez the man, "You must drink from the Live-forever spring, at the other end of the village.
That water has the happy effect of neutralizin' the poisons of the Immortal spring.  If anything
can save you that can.  Why," sez he, "folks that have been entirely broke down, and made helpless
and hopeless invalids, them that have been brung down on their death-beds by the use of that
vile Immortal water, have been cured by a few glasses of the pure healin' waters of the Live-forever
spring.  I'd advise you for your own sake, and the sake of your family, who would mourn your
ontimely decese, to drink from that spring at once."

"But," sez Josiah, with a agonized and hopeless look, "I can't drink no more now."

"Why?" sez the man.

"Because I don't hold any more.  I don't hold but two quarts, and I have drinked 11 tumblers
full now."

"Eleven glasses of that poison?" sez the man.

"Wall, if it is too late I am not to blame.  I've warned you. Farewell," sez he, a graspin'
holt of Josiah's hand.  "Farewell, forever.  But if you do live," sez he, "if by a miricle
you are saved, remember the Live-forever spring.  If there is any help for you it is in them
waters."

And he dashed away, for another stranger wuz approachin' the seen.

I, myself, didn't have no idee that Josiah wuz a goin' to die. But Ardelia whispered to me,
she must go back to the hotel, so she went.  I see she looked kinder strange, and I didn't
object to it.  And when we got back she handed me some verses entitled:

"Stanzas on the death of Josiah Allen."

She handed 'em to me, and hastened away, quick.  But Josiah Allen didn't die.  And this incident
made him more megum.  More as I wanted him to be.  Why, you have to be megum in everything,
no matter how good it is.  Milk porridge, or the Bible, or anything. You can kill yourself
on milk porridge if you drink enough.  And you can set down and read the Bible, till you grow
to your chair, and lose your eyesight.

Now these waters are dretful good, but you have got to use some megumness with 'em, it stands
to reason you have.  Taint megum to drink from 10 to 12 glasses at a time, and mix your drinks
goin' round from spring to spring like a luny.  No; get a good doctor to tell you what minerals
you seem to stand in need on the most, and then try to get 'em with fear and tremblin'.  You'll
get help I haint a doubt on't.  For they are dretful good for varius things that afflict the
human body.  Dretful!

XVI.

AT A LAWN PARTY.

Wall, the very next mornin' Miss Flamm sent word for Josiah and me to come that night to a
lawn party.  And I sez at once, "I must go and get some lawn."

Sez Josiah, "What will you do with it?"

And I sez, "Oh, I s'pose I shall wrap it round me, I'll do what the rest do."

And sez Josiah, "Hadn't I ort to have some too?  If it is a lawn party and everybody else has
it, I shall feel like a fool without any lawn."

And I looked at him in deep thought, and through him into the causes and consequences of things,
and sez I, "I s'pose you do ort to have a lawn necktie, or handkerchief, or sunthin'."

Sez he, "How would a vest look made out of it, a kinder sprigged one, light gay colors on a
yaller ground-work?"

But I sez at once, "You never will go out with me, Josiah, with a lawn vest on."  And I settled
it right there on the spot.

Then he proposed to have some wrapped round his hat, sort a festooned.  But I stood like marble
aginst that idee.  But I knew I had got to have some lawn, and pretty soon we sallied out together
and wended our way down to where I should be likely to find a lawn store.

And who should we meet a comin' out of a store but Ardelia.  Her 3d cousin had sent her over
to get a ingregient for cookin'. Good, willin' little creeter!  She walked along with us for
a spell.  And while she wuz a walkin' along with us, we come onto a sight that always looked
pitiful to me, the old female that wuz always a' sittin' there a singin' and playin' on a accordeun.
And it seemed to me that she looked pitifuller and homblier than ever, as she sot there amongst
the dense crowd that mornin' a singin' and a playin'.  Her tone wuz thin, thin as gauze, hombly
gause too.  But I wondered to myself how she wuz a feelin' inside of her own mind, and what
voices she heard a speakin' to her own soul, through them hombly strains.  And, ontirely unbeknown
to myself, I fell into a short revery (short but deep) right there in the street, as I looked
down on her, a settin' there so old, and patient and helpless, amongst the gay movin' throng.

And I wondered what did she see, a settin' there with her blind eyes, what did she hear through
them hombly tones that she wuz a singin' day after day to a crowd that wuz indifferent to her,
or despised her?  Did she hear the song of the mornin', the spring time of life?  Did the song
of a lark come back to her, a lark flyin' up through the sweet mornin' sky over the doorway
of a home, a lark watched by young eyes, two pairs of 'em, that made the seein' a blessedness?
Did a baby's first sweet blunders of speech, and happy laughter come back to her, as she sot
there a drawin' out with her wrinkled hands them miserable sounds from the groanin' instrument?
Did home, love, happiness sound out to her, out of them hombly strains?  I'd have gin a cent
to know.

And I'd have gin a cent quick to know if the tread -- tread -- tread of the crowd goin' past
her day after day, hour after hour, seems to her like the trample of Time a marchin' on.  Did
she hear in 'em the footsteps of child, or lover, or friend, a steppin' away from her, and
youth and happiness, and hope, a stiddy goin' away from her?

Did she ever listen through the constant sound of them steps, listen to hear the tread of them
feet that she must know wuz a comin' nigh to her -- the icy feet that will approach us, if
their way leads over rocks or roses?

Did she hate to hear them steps a comin' nearer to her, or did she strain her ears to hear
'em, to welcome 'em?  I thought like as not she did.  For thinkses I to myself, and couldn't
help it, if she is a Christian she must be glad to change that old accordeun for a harp of
any size or shape.  For mournfuller and more melancholy sounds than her voice and that instrument
made I never hearn, nor ever expect to hear, and thin.

Poor, old, hombly critter, I gin her quite a lot of change one day, and she braced up and sung
and drawed out faster than ever, and thinner.  Though I'd have gladly hearn her stop.

When I come up out of my revery, I see Ardelia lookin' at her stiddy and kind a sot.  And I
mistrusted trouble wuz ahead on me, and I hurried Josiah down the street.  Ardelia a sayin'
she had got to turn the corner, to go to another place for her 3d cousin.

Jest as we wuz a crossin' a street my companion drawed my attention to a sign that wuz jest
overhead, and sez lie, "That means me, I'm spoke of right out, and hung up overhead."

And sez I, "What do you mean?"

Sez he, "Read it -- 'The First Man-I-Cure Of The Day.'  That's me, Samantha; I haint a doubt
of it.  And I s'pose I ort to go in and be cured.  I s'pose probably it will be expected of
me, that I should go in, and let him look at my corns."

Sez I, "Josiah Allen, I've heerd you talk time and agin aginst big feelin' folks, and here
you be a talkin' it right to yourself, and callin' yourself the first man of the day."

"Wall," sez he firmly, "I believe it, and I believe you do, and you'd own up to it, if you
wuzn't so aggravatin'."

"Wall, sez I mildly, "I do think you are the first in some things, though what them things
are, I would be fur from wantin' to tell you.  But," I continued on, "I don't see you should
think that means you.  Saratoga is full of men, and most probable every man of 'em thinks it
means him."

"Wall," sez he, "I don't think it means me, I know it.  And I s'pose," he continued dreamily,
"they'd cure me, and not charge a cent."

"Wall," sez I, "wait till another time, Josiah Allen."  And jest at this minute, right down
under our feet, we see the word "Pray," in big letters scraped right out in stun.  And Josiah
sez, "I wonder if the dumb fools think anybody is goin to kneel down right here in the street,
and be run over.  Why a man would be knocked over a dozen times, before he got through one
prayer, Now I lay me down to sleep, or anything."

"Wall," sez I, mildly, "I don't think that would be a very suitable prayer under the circumstances.
It haint expected that you'd lay down here for a nap -- howsumever," sez I reesunably "their
puttin' the word there shows what good streaks the folks here have, and I don't want you to
make light on't, and if you don't want to act like a perfect backslider you'll ceese usin'
such profane language on sech a solemn subject."

Wall, we went into a good lookin'store and I wuz jest a lookin' at some lawn and a wonderin'
how many yards I should want, when who should come in but Miss Flamm to get a rooch for her neck.

And she told me that I didn't need any lawn, and that it wuz a Garden party, and folks dressed
in anything they wuz a mind to, though sez she, "A good many go in full dress."

"Wall," sez I calmly, "I have got one."  And she told me to come in good season.

That afternoon, Josiah a bein' out for a walk, I took out of my trunk a dress that Alminy Hagidon
had made for me out of a very full pattern I had got of a peddler, and wanted it all put in,
so's it would fade all alike, for I mistrusted it wouldn't wash. It wuz gethered-in full round
the waist, and the sleeves wuz set in full, and the waist wuz kinder full before, and it had
a deep high ruffle gathered-in full round the neck.  It wuz a very full dress, though I haint
proud, and never wuz called so.  Yet anybody duz take a modest pleasure in bein' equal to any
occasion and comin' up nobly to a emergency.  And I own that I did say to myself, as I pulled
out the gethers in front, "Wall, there may be full dresses there to-night, but there will be
none fuller than mine."

And I wuz glad that Alminy had made it jest as she had.  She had made it a little fuller than
even I had laid out to have it, for she mistrusted it would shrink in washin'.  It wuz a very
full dress.  It wuz cambrick dark chocolate, with a set flower of a kind of a cinnamon brown
and yellow, it wuz bran new and looked well.

Wall, I had got it on, and wuz contemplatin' its fullness with complacency and a hand-glass,
a seein' how nobly it stood out behind, and how full it wuz, when Josiah Allen came in.  I
had talked it over with him, before he went out -- and he wuz as tickled as I wuz, and tickleder,
to think I had got jest the right dress for the occasion.  But he sez to me the first thing
--  "You are all wrong, Samantha, full dress means low neck and short sleeves."

Sez I, "I know better!"

Sez he, "It duz."

Sez I, "Somebody has been a foolin' you, Josiah Allen!  There ain't no sense in it.  Do you
s'pose folks would call a dress full, when there wuzn't more'n half a waist and sleeves to
it. I'd try to use a little judgment, Josiah Allen! "

But he contended that he wuz in the right on't.  And he took up his best vest that lay on the
bed, and sot down, and took out his jack knife and went a rippin' open one of the shoulders,
and sez I, "What are you doin', Josiah Allen?"

"Why, you can do as you are a mind to, Samantha Allen," sez he. "But I shall go fashionable,
I shall go in full dress."

Sez I, "Josiah Allen  do you look me in the face and say you are a goin' in a low neck vest,
and everything, to that party to-night?"

"Yes, mom, I be.  I am bound to be fashionable."  And he went to rollin' up his shirt sleeves
and turnin' in the neck of his shirt, in a manner that wuz perfectly immodest.

I turned my head away instinctively, for I felt that my cheek wuz a gettin' as red as blood,
partly through delicacy and partly through righteous anger.  Sez I, "Josiah Allen, be you a
calculatin' to go there right out in public before men and wimmen, a showin' your bare bosom
to a crowd?  Where is your modesty, Josiah Allen?  Where is your decency?"

Sez he firmly, "I keep 'em where all the rest do, who go in full dress."

I sot right down in a chair and sez I, "Wall there is one thing certain; if you go in that
condition, you will go alone.  Why," sez I, "to home, if Tirzah Ann, your own daughter, had
ketched you in that perdickerment, a rubbin' on linement or anything, you would have jumped
and covered yourself up, quicker'n a flash, and likeways me, before Thomas Jefferson.  And
now you lay out to go in that way before young girls, and old ones, and men and wimmen, and
want me to foller on after your example.  What in the world are you a thinkin' on, Josiah Allen?"

"Why I'm a thinkin, on full dress," sez be in a pert tone, a kinder turnin' himself before
the glass, where he could get a good view of his bones.  His thin neck wuzn't much more than
bones, anyway, and so I told him.  And I asked him if he could see any beauty in it, and sez
I, "Who wants to look at our old bare necks, Josiah Allen?  And if there wuzn't any other powerful
reeson of modesty and decency in it, you'd ketch your death cold, Josiah Allen, and be laid
up with the newmoan.  You know you would," sez I, "you are actin' like a luny, Josiah Allen."

"It is you that are actin' like a luny," sez he bitterly.  "I never propose anything of a high
fashionable kind but what you want to break it up.  Why, dumb it all, you know as well as I
do, that men haint called as modest as wimmen anyway.  And if they have the name, why shouldn't
they have the game?  Why shouldn't they go round half dressed as well as wimmen do?  And they
are as strong agin; if there is any danger to health in it they are better able to stand it. Much has
changed!

How beautiful my daughter has been Holy Virgin! - Heart told me so, cute, my daughter, Adela
mimicked. If I am your daughter, if you love me so much, why did
not you come to me?

Dolores warn you. Why do not you went to talk to me?

I got very angry. - Ay! cried the black.

Do not tell me this girl is killing me ... His mercy was not alone.
- No. I went with mom, Carmen, the woman and her sister Panchita Moya.

What was so special? - Pretty girl of my eyes. - Speak, explain.
- I can now, my child. - What !

Do not you think Mom ask his blessing? - Yes, girl.

I, I wish in my soul, come ... From the point reached by Miss Havana,
I run and throw myself at your feet ... - Why have not done so?

Who has prevented you? - Miss it. - Mom?

No, it can be.

You are wrong, you dream, Maria de Regla. - I mistake not, nor sleep, Adelita girl. I wish! Miss
has banned set foot in this house. - How come I do not know anything
about that?

Who has been with such a story? - There was no story, Adelita girl.

Dolores told me that Miss had a conversation with the master on me
... - You see?

Dolores misunderstood. Mother is not angry with you.

And if not, I now find out. - Do not, Adelita girl, no, for the love
of God, "replied the slave so scared, holding the girl in a chant
of her dress.

By itself, or not, you'd better not see me Miss now.

"Is the doctor? - Well, I want to see you in private. Arrange mode.

With Dolores tell thee.

What do you want the doctor? - For a tan that have brought the mountain
bitten by dogs. - Bitten by the dogs!

Adela repeated. Ay! It must be very serious case when they call the
doctor. If you have broken! Probably.

Those
dogs are like beasts. How awful, my God! Mateu, said aloud, looking around him. Things started
very strange indeed to find Elizabeth on the family under whose roof was hosted and wit as weighted
Tinaja.

A keen interest in the fate of the nurse, former nurse of his tender friend, now banished from the
family home and moved, horrified by what he had heard about the slave,
bitten by ferocious dogs, all outrageous things to her, Elizabeth
could not hide Leonardo, nor his intense dislike or their deep emotions.
- What do you have?

What has given you? he asked. - I do not know, "she said.

I feel bad. - I thought, "continued Leonard, you had affected the black tale of wounded. Do not be silly.
What we bet you have not been more the thing? Do not spend a few scratches? If you knew the nurse
would think like me.

Mom can not see for crying. Nor should we ever give full credence
to what they say blacks. All exaggerate and bulge. - What was, Adela?
Rosa asked from his seat listening to her call the doctor.

The nurse was gone in an instant, and before his mother Adela answered the Mayoral appeared on horseback,
preceded by her two beautiful mastiffs aloud to account for everything that bell- had happened. It
was this tall, lean meat, but members of sturdy, very brown face, black-eyed, curly hair and thick
beard, whose big sideburns covering both sides of the face until
it touches the corners of the mouth , which it seemed smaller.

Despite the wide-brimmed hat as he always wore, both in the field
at home outdoors than indoors, because often made use of it as a nightcap,
when I took to talk with Don Candido found himself while the top of
his forehead looked like a white man, nose, cheek and hands but no
one would say were a mulatto were so burnt from the sun.

He came armed as they say, to the teeth, tape machete, dagger out
of silver shining like that, and the ponderous whip, the handle, made
of a slice of orange wild gun was not only less terrible for being
blunt.

He began by saying: - Holy evenings have the toa Don Candido with the company. I'm coming to participasle
have brought to Peter brichi some bite. It was necessary Atoja arresistió and dogs. - Who has captured?
the master asked calmly. - The assumed Francisco Estévez, Maroons take nombráa pa. - Do you
know where they have captured? - In the reeds of La Begoña, very
close to the mountains. - Was he alone?

What others? - NAA is known about them, Don Candido, neither Peter
nor decislo Quie.

I figure it will be biraslo pa to sing. I have come to where the Don Candido
pa tell me what I do with Peter.'s Very emperrao ... Where you do
you have Don Liborio? asked the master after a long pause. - In the
infirmary. - What, is so spoiled? - why not, Don Candido.

I have it in the stocks of nursing pa greater safety, and I wanted the
hurt ponesle crickets, and then I was willing figure with bad intentions.
His eyes are two tomatoes Mauro and I repaired it when you put the Assyrian
the black eyes is to make a fechuría quieen.

I say to the gentleman who is that black emperrao mu. See if Mr. dog,
when I put in the stocks he said - the man does not die but once,
and that "he was working cansao pa his master." The lord should know
that after the black pick and speak Assyrian is because, as my friend
Moya, who is present, they have stuck my head Guinea.

Tragáo hastily they have here that when you go straight for anklets
their land. - Aberrations of ignorance! exclaimed the priest. - Yes,
Don Candido, continued Mayoral, is asking that black leather and the
dead mass. They smiled at the priest and Don Candido, and he said: - In
time, Don Liborio, in time ripen the grapes. For now I do not think
should whip. He will recover from the bites, and then there rather than
punish him for his absence, one of the most serious that can be committed
on these farms.

Synonyms, escaped slave, to deprive the master of his services without
cause and quite powerful, for about less time, is unforgivable; not only
himself, but by bad example for their peers. You will be punished,
do not hesitate. Who would not be sponsoring.

In another black appear the same lack any light.

A well that Peter can resist a novena ... He has good hock. A otherwise. Did not he know that
Estevez's departure that black was mine?

Did not
you informed that I was here? - Yes, sir, I knew Toit and I told
him to come to the dwelling house and Spook deliver pa received any
capture, a doubloon to four.

But answer me and says he preferred to sleep in the bush.

Besides, what they saw did not want blacks meek, for they gave him
the blow to the Maroons, also had to dir where The Narrow to see if
he took the forty blacks to be suescelencia juyeron to the Count of
Fernandina week passes up, and I had errands to Mayoral ñamar ...
At that point the parade at the Batey La Tinaja between the house
and boiler house, and more than 300 slaves to their endowment, and
the Mayoral saying "licensed" was to get his head to review them and
give them the final orders through the contramayorales, who were also
slaves.

From a safe distance had preceded the noise of conversation and the
sound of the prisons of prisoners .

Two of them wore chains, with bar across two branches and chain hanging
around his waist, and walked with great difficulty, because to move
had to describe half circles, and with one foot to the other.

One wore shackles, which hung a string of about six feet long, the bottom would crimp the
ring of a mass as heavy iron clock, which, when walking, was force
to take the arm, failing which the friction of the ring grind the
shin bone, although he had wrapped with a cloth.

The same is occasionally stopped and raised his voice in a melancholy
tone and timbre of Argentina, which resounded everywhere saying: -
"Here's Chilala, Maroon" .

Penados or not, male or female, all brought something to the head,
no heart beams, and Ramon branches that both horses like in Cuba,
now bunches of green or ripe plantains, palm kernel pray for pigs;
this a pumpkin, that an armful of firewood.

A few, fifteen or twenty, wearing a shirt and canvas trousers new
or a few months of use and were intact, the suit of the other consisted
of rags, through whose holes are black meat saw and without luster.

None wearing shoes, the odd, rawhide sandals, adjusted to the foot
by laces hibiscus, either yagua Arique of which are no less resistant.

Females, thirty to thirty-five all on going riots among men hardly be distinguished by anything
but the kind of cut burlap sack that covered the body from shoulders to just below the knees, without
sleeves, so that nothing is missing the crude imitation of Roman tunic
. - Ajila! shouted Don Liborio with his booming voice, traveling
on horseback the disordered ranks as a general who commanded an evolution.

Whereupon, without hindrance, by the mere habit, most formed, but the lazy, clumsy, disabled by prisons,
by too much cargo or the rush that took the front to close the ranks, those were left behind,
less visible than others. Against this unfortunate outbreak of cholera Mayoral. Peaked and
began to whip lashes spread right and left, without distinguishing
innocent of guilty, to achieve the desired training.

If this is how you have reasoned with the slave at all times and
countries, can expect them to be an exception to this generally the
lords of La Tinaja?

No way.

In his view, as in most of the masters, the black was not the thing spoken
by Roman law.

There was quite a difference.

For them, they understood that only right that twisted the fulfillment
of their whims and caprices, the man-thing of ancient Rome may not
think it was a working machine, whilst the man-thing today, were fully
convinced, he thought at least three things: how to avoid work in
the blood burn his holder, and always act in opposition to his views,
wishes and interests.

For the love in general, black is a compound monstrous stupidity, cynicism, hypocrisy, meanness
and wickedness, and the only method for him to fill without complaint, hesitation or delay
the task that wishes to impose is that of force, violence, the whip.'s
black means for evil, it is common saying among the masters.

Therefore, in respect of them, who does not conceal that Mayoral not forgive failure, which, as
lightning strikes that offends, that on all occasions has enough strength and courage to "bring to heel
'people as perverse and ungovernable, that is worthy, more worthy of consideration and respect.
It has always been more admired most heretics inquisitor sent the pyre. This explains why, after
the Mayoral ordered the tomb, and all the load released at his feet, no matter if forage or fruit,
whose result they burst with the fall, giving occasion for the Mayoral
hiciese new use of the whip, the lords of La Tinaja approved and welcomed
the punishment because it was clear that the perpetrators had acted
of malice and stupidity and not because of the previous obfuscation
bashing.

Doña Rosa, Christian woman and kind to his peers, who confessed often, giving alms to the poor,
who loved their children, which in theory at least was willing to
forgive the faults of others so that God, who is in heaven, forgive
their own, Dona Rosa, Sorry to say, seeing the contortions of those
whom the tip of the braided leather whip of the overseer opened furrows
on their backs or arms, smiled, perhaps believing grotesque spectacle,
or exclaim, exclamation that made people choir which was surrounded:
- Hase seen people more gross! the rickshaw pullers also smiled and
Leocadio Aponte, along with two men more, that from the lean-to of
the great stable of talent, attracted by the continuing outbreak of
the dreaded leather, safe witnessed the scene and cleared the field
is expected to go out and collect fodder for the horses that were
taken over immediately.

If we add that in these circumstances until the Mayoral dogs showed their joy so unusual, we
do not say anything new. This, while Don Liborio spoke with the masters of wit, remained lying
at the feet of his horse, but just went to black, placed at his sides and did
not lose sight or their eyes or the movement of his right arm, no
doubt awaiting the order to lie on the victim and to top it.

It is declared here, however, that not
all women present joined in the chorus that has been mentioned before.
Doña Juana, in contrast, kept his eyes to see, and forbade the policy
of retreat and was fatal to hear the blows and the cries of the victims
deaf . In the same case were the nieces of this lady and her two minor
daughters Gamboa, but they had even the expedient of taking refuge
in the courtyard.

Beyond the continued Meneses, Cocco and Leonardo, as Don Candido called to him and ordered him to accompany
her to the hospital and doctor minutely informed of what happened to the prison. In a little
private conversation with the priest and the captain, added - I want to accustom (a child) to
these things early, because I am or see that other day I die and
he will replace me by necessity in managing the flow, especially in
the administration of this estate, which for more than a source belongs.

This must be his estate. In this task, Don Candido imperative that
Leonardo was born, repugnant and all the visit, and given that it was
not disobey, nor excuse either, pretend you accompany her friends
and sisters. They gave them without difficulty, just as Rosa, especially
since they offered to go more willingly Meneses and Cocco.

Isabel suddenly declined, but urged and musing that he might have occasion to exercise his visit
an act of mercy, he gave too, and when Leonardo left arm, said the
move to Dona Rosa and smiling in a friendly tone: - I have. - Well
done, "said Rosa. - Good partner," said Dona Teresa, the wife of Captain
Peña, Leonardo and Isabella while descending the steps of the portico
batey. - Beautiful!

Dona said Nicole, the wife of Moya. - Do not you, Rosa, (said to his own Don Candido to the cloth,
mentally agreeing with the timely observation of the two women), more and more successful the idea
of marrying as soon as possible Leonardo Isabel? - Yes, Rosa said absently. - She's a good thing
I have. And it is known that Leonardo is in love. Then the marriage
is a brake ... I did not know Don Liborio concurrent counting pen [46]
more than a dozen. But he was good and happy memory for faces, so that,
except for seven runaway slaves, eight patients in the hospital and
twenty-eight assigned to the various units of the farm, carpenters,
masons, blacksmiths, grooms and servants, the other, to the number
of 306, male, female, single, married, young and old, he had no doubt
of one after another had passed before his eyes and entered the hut.

Content on this particular closed the cover, the bolt went horizontal figure of T, and threw the
key, which, together with the whip hung from a nail fixed to the
doorpost of your house, at the outside lean-below.

  And he tried
to not look at the waltzin' no more than he could help, and I did too. But in spite of himself
he had to see how clost the young girls wuz held; how warmly the young men embraced 'em.  And
as he looked on, agin I see the hot blush of shame mantillied Josiah's cheeks, and again he
sez to me in almost warm axents, "I realize what you have rescued me from, Samantha."

And I sez, "You couldn't have looked Elder Minkley in the face, could you? if you had gone
into that shameful diversion."

"No, I couldn't, nor into yourn nuther.  I couldn't have looked nobody in the face, if I had
gone on and imposed on any young girl as they are a doin', and insulted of her.  Why," sez
he, "if it wuz my Tirzah Ann that them, men wuz a embracin', and huggin', and switchin' her
round, as if they didn't have no respect for her at all, -- why, if it wuz Tirzah Ann, I would
tear 'em 'em from lim."

And he looked capable on't.  He looked almost sublime (though small).  And I hurried him away
from the seen, for I didn't know what would ensue and foller on, if I let him linger there
longer. He looked as firm and warlike as one of our bantam fowls, a male one, when hawks are
a hoverin' over the females of the flock.  And when I say Bantam I say it with no disrespect
to Josiah Allen. Bantams are noble, and warlike fowls, though small boneded.

I got one more glimps of Miss Flamm jest as we left the tarven. She wuz a standin' up in the
parlor, with a tall man a standin' up in front of her a talkin'.  He seemed to be biddin' of
her good-bye, for he had holt of her hand, and be wuz a sayin' as we went by 'em, sez he, "I
am sorry not to see more of you."

"Good land!" thinkses I, "what can the man be a thinkin' on? the mean, miserable creeter! 
If there wuz ever a deadly insult gin to a woman, then wuz the time it wuz gin.  Good land!
good land!"

I don't know whether Miss Flamm resented it, or not, for I hurried Josiah along.  I didn't
want to expose him to no sich sights, good, innocent old creeter.  So I kep' him up on a pretty
good jog till I got him home.

XVII.

A TRIP TO SCHUYLERVILLE.

It wuz a lovely mornin' when my companion and me sot out to visit Schuylerville to see the
monument that is stood up there in honor of the Battle of Saratoga, one of 7 great decisive
battles of the world.

Wall, the cars rolled on peacefully, though screechin' occasionally, for, as the poet says,
"It is their nater to," and rolled us away from Saratoga.  And at first there wuzn't nothin'
particularly insperin' in the looks of the landscape, or ruther woodscape.  It wuz mostly woods
and rather hombly woods too, kinder flat lookin'. But pretty soon the scenery became beautiful
and impressive.  The rollin' hills rolled down and up in great billowy masses of green and
pale blue, accordin' as they wuz fur or near, and we went by shinin' water, and a glowin' landscape,
and pretty houses, and fields of grain and corn, etc., etc.  And anon we reached a place where
"Victory Mills" wuz printed up high, in big letters.  When Josiah see this, he sez, "Haint
that neighborly and friendly in Victory to come over here and put up a mill?  That shows, Samantha,"
sez he, "that the old hardness of the Revolution is entirely done away with."

He wuz jest full of Revolutionary thoughts that mornin', Josiah Allen wuz.  And so wuz I too,
but my strength of mind is such, that I reined 'em in and didn't let 'em run away with me.
And I told him that it didn't mean that.  Sez I, "The Widder Albert wouldn't come over here
and go to millin', she nor none of her family."

"But," sez he, "the name must mean sunthin'.  Do you s'pose it is where folks get the victory
over things?  If it is, I'd give a dollar bill to get a grist ground out here, and," sez he,
in a sort of a coaxin' tone, "le's stop and get some victory, Samantha."

And I told him, that I guessed when he got a victory over the world, the flesh, or the -- David,
he would have to work for it, he wouldn't get it ground out for him.  But anon, he cast his
eyes on sunthin' else and so forgot to muse on this any further.  It wuz a fair seen.

Anon, a big manufactory, as big as the hull side of Jonesville almost, loomed up by the side
of us.  And anon, the fair, the beautiful country spread itself out before our vision.  While
fur, fur away the pale blue mountains peeked up over the green ones, to see if they too could
see the monument riz up to our National Liberty.  It belonged to them, jest as much as to the
hill it wuz a standin' on, it belongs to the hull liberty-lovin' world.

Wall, the cars stopped in a pretty little village, a clean, pleasant little place as I ever
see, or want to see.  And Josiah and me wended our way up the broad roomy street, up to where
the monument seemed to sort a beegon to us to come.  And when we got up to it; we see it wuz
a sight, a sight to behold.

The curius thing on't wuz, it kep a growin' bigger and bigger all the time we wuz approachin'
it, till, as we stood at its base, it seemed to tower up into the very skies.

There wuz some flights of stun steps a leadin' up to some doors in the side on't.  And we went
inside on't after we had gin a good look at the outside.  But it took us some time to get through
gazin' at the outside on't.

Way up over our heads wuz some sort a recesses, some like the recess in my spare bed-room,
only higher and narrower, and kinder nobler lookin'.  And standin' up in the first one, a lookin'
stiddy through storm and shine at the North star, stood General Gates, bigger than life considerable,
but none too big; for his deeds and the deeds of all of our old 4 fathers stand out now and
seem a good deal bigger than life.  Yes, take 'em in all their consequences, a sight bigger.

Wall, there he stands, a leanin' on his sword.  He'll be ready when the enemy comes, no danger
but what he will.

On the east side, is General Schuyler a horsback, ready to dash forward against the foe, impetuous,
ardent, gallant.  But oh! the perils and dangers that obstruct his pathway; thick underbrush
and high, tall trees stand up round him that he seemin'ly can't get through.

But his gallant soldiers are a helpin' him onward, they are a cuttin' down the trees so's he
can get through 'em and dash at the enemy.  You see as you look on him that he will get through
it all.  No envy, nor detraction, nor jealousy, no such low underbrush full of crawlin' reptiles,
nor no high solid trees, no danger of any sort can keep him back.  His big brave, generous
heart is sot on helpin' his country, he'll do it.

On the south side, is the saddest sight that a patriotic American can see.  On a plain slab
stun, lookin' a good deal like a permanent grave-stun, sot up high there, for Americans to
weep over forever, bitter tears of shames, is the name, "Arnold."

He wuz a brave soldier; his name ort to be there; it is all right to have it there and jest
where it is, on a gravestun.  All through the centuries it will stand there, a name carved
by the hand of cupidity, selfishness, and treachery.

On the west side, General Morgan is standin' up with his hands over his eyes; lookin' away
into the sunset.  He looked jest like that when he wuz a lookin' after prowlin' red skins and
red coats; when the sun wuz under dark clouds, and the day wuz dark 100 years ago.

But now, all he has to do is to stand up there and look off into the glowin' heavens, a watchin'
the golden light of the sun of Liberty a rollin' on westward.  He holds his hand over his eyes;
its rays most blind him, he is most lost a thinkin' how fur, how fur them rays are a spreadin',
and a glowin',way, way off, Morgan is a lookin' onto our future, and it dazzles him. We first discuss
the case had to be your husband. But you're the little surprise and theatrical effect. We shall
see ... You know, dear, the deal is a deal.

I have struggled with God's help to reason Mr. Izquierdo. Finally satisfied with six real
1500. The remainder of the ten thousand real for me, that even though I've managed to win ... By tomorrow,
I'll go after noon, you also see the holy rooms. He mounted his very
Jacinta contains.

He had
made his will, he had his toy. That could very well be a trifle, but she had her reasons for doing
so. The plan designed to introduce the family Pitusa and place in
it, revealing certain cleverness.

He thought that nothing should say at the Dauphin soon. Deposit its finding in his sister's house
to put Candelaria presentable. Then say it was an orphan abandoned on the streets, picked for
her ... not a word concerning the mother who could be no less the father of such doll. Every touch
was in the side would look to see Juan. "Diríale something mysterious voice of the blood? Would you
recognize in the poor child the factions of ...? The dramatic interest of this cast Jacinta sacrificing
the convenience of the procedures of this case. Imagining what would happen, the disruption
of the infidel, his forgiveness, and a thousand romantic things and details
you guessed, it produced in his soul a joy similar to the artist
who creates or compounds, and also a bit of revenge, as in so noble
soul could occur this passion. - ii - When was the fourth the Dauphin,
Barbarita this made him take a cup of tea with cognac.

In the dining room was still the noise, but the mood was calmer. "Now -" the mother - have stuck with
the policy strand. Samaniego said that until two or three hundred heads cut off, there will be no peace.
The Marquis is by the shedding of blood, and Estupiñá asked why he
had not accepted the deputation which offered him ... He got it exactly
like a turkey, and said he did not want to get into ... - She said
that - jumped Juanito, stopping drinking. - That yes, my son said
he did not want to get into these ... I do not know why. - Do not
say that, Mom. you also not alter the truth of the texts. - But son,
if you've heard me. - Although I've heard, I hold that he could not
say that .. . go. - What then? - The Marquis could not get to say
... I put my mind to meddle said ... If I know how people speak fine.

Barbarita laughed. - Well, yes ... you're right, well, it was ...
I did not want to interfere ... - You see?

... Jacinta. - What is it, spoiled
child? - Choose to send a message to Aparisi. Come at once. - Why?

Do you know what time it is? - Once you know the reason, the plant here in one leap. - But why?
- There is nothing! Do you think going to let that happen to interfere? I want to know how to shake
that fly ... The two ladies entered the joke as she fixed the bed. Wilhelmina had left the house without
saying goodbye, and little by little they were going the other.

Before midnight, all was quiet, and the parents retired to their
room after they were ordered to Jacinta very targeted for the Dolphin
not homeless.

This seemed fast asleep, and his wife went to bed without sleep,
with the intention more prepared to act as sentinel at rest.

There was less than an hour, when John woke up restless, began to
speak in a somewhat broken.

Jacinta thought he was delirious, and sat up in bed, but was not
delirious, but uneasiness with some impertinence.

He tried to calm him with loving words, but he did not give a party.

"Do you want to call ?».--« No, it's late and I do not want to alarm
... I'm just nervous.

I have been terrified to sleep. It looks and all day in this pit
of boredom.

The sheets
are burning and my body is cold. "


And then we clim a long flight of stairs and we see some more pictures, all round that room.
Alto relieved agin, or he must have been relieved, and happified to see 'em, they wuz so impressive.
I myself had from 25 to 30 emotions a minute while I stood a lookin' at em -- big lofty emotions
too.

There waz Jennie McCrea a bein' dragged offen her horse, and killed by savages.  A dreadful
sight -- a woman settin' out light-hearted toward happiness and goin' to meet a fearful doom.
Dreadful sight that has come down through the centuries, and happens over and over agin amongst
female wimmen.  But here it wuz fearful impressive for the savages that destroyed her wuz in
livin' form, they haint always materialized.

Yes, it wuz a awful seen.  And jest beyond it, wuz Burgoyne a scoldin' the savages for the
cruelty of the deed.  Curius, haint it?  How the acts and deeds of a man that he sets to goin',
when they have come to full fruition skare him most to death, horrify him by the sight.  I'll
bet Burgoyne felt bad enough, a lookin' on her dead body, if it wuz his doin's in the first
place, in lettin' loose such ignerance and savagery onto a strugglin' people.

Yes, Mr. Burgoyne felt bad and ashamed, I haint a doubt of it. His poet soul could suffer as
well as enjoy -- and then I didn't feel like sayin' too much aginst Mr. Burgoyne, havin' meditated
so lately in the treachery of Arnold, one of our own men doin' a act that ort to keep us sort
a humble-minded to this day.

And then there wuz the killin' and buryin' of Frazier both impressive.  He wuz a gallant officer
and a brave man.  And then there wuz General Schuyler (a good creeter) a turnin' over his command
to Gates.  And I methought to myself as I looked on it, that human nater wuz jest about the
same then; it capered jest about as it duz now in public affairs and offices.  Then there wuz
the surrender of Burgoyne to Gates.  A sight impressive enough to furnish one with stiddy emotions
for weeks and weeks.  A thinkin' of all he surrendered to him that day, and all that wuz took.

The monument is dretful high.  Up, up, up, it soars as if it wuz bound to reach up into the
very heavens, and carry up there these idees of ourn about Free Rights, and National Liberty.
It don't go clear up, though.  I wish it did.  If it had, I should have gone up the high ladder
clear to the top.  But I desisted from the enterprise for 2 reasons, one wuz, that it didn't
go, as I say, clear up, and the other wuz that the stairs wuzn't finished.

Josiah proposed that he should go up as he clim up our well, with one foot on each side on't.
He said he wuz tempted to, for he wanted dretfully to look out of them windows on the top.
And he said it would probable be expected of him.  And I told him that I guessed that the monument
wouldn't feel hurt if he didn't go up; I guessed it would stand it.  I discouraged the enterprise.

And anon we went down out of the monument, and crossed over to the good-lookin' house where
the man lives who takes care of the monument, and shows off its good traits, a kind of a guardian
to it.  And we got a first-rate dinner there, though such is not their practice.  And then
he took us in a likely buggy with 2 seats, and a horse to draw it, and we sot out to see what
the march of 100 years has left us of the doin's of them days.

Time has trampled out a good many of 'em, but we found some.  We found the old Schuyler mansion,
a settin' back amongst the trees, with the old knocker on it, that had been pulled by so many
a old 4 father, carryin' tidin's of disappointment, and hope, and triumph, and encouragement,
and everything.  We went over the threshold wore down by the steps that had fell there for
a hundred years, some light, some heavy steps.

We went into the clean, good-lookin' old kitchen, with the platters, and shinin' dressers and
trays; the old-fashioned settee, half-table and half-seat.  And we see the cup General Washington
drinked tea out of, good old creeter.  I hope the water biled and it wuz good tea, and most
probable it wuz.  And we see lots of arms that had been carried in the war, and cannon balls,
and shells, and tommy-hawks, and hatchets, and arrows, and etc., etc.  And down in one room
all full of other curiosities and relicts, wuz the skull of a traitor.  I should judge from
the looks on't that besides bein' mean, he wuz a hombly man.  Somebody said folks had made
efforts to steal it.  But Josiah whispered to me, that there wuzn't no danger from him, for
he would rather be shet right up in the Tombs than to own it, in any way.

And I felt some like him.  Some of his teeth had been stole, so they said.  Good land! what
did they want with his teeth!  But it wuz a dretful interestin' spot.  And I thought as I went
through the big square, roomy rooms that I wouldn't swap this good old house for dozens of
Queen Anns, or any other of the fashionable, furbelowed houses of to-day.  The orniments of
this house wuz more on the inside, and I couldn't help thinkin' that this house, compared with
the modern ornimental cottages, wuz a good deal like one of our good old-fashioned foremothers
in her plain gown, compared with some of the grandma's of to-day, all paint, and furbelows,
and false hair.

The old 4 mothers orniments wuz on the inside, and the others wuz more up on the roof, scalloped
off and gingerbreaded, and criss-crossed.

The old house wuz full of rooms fixed off beautiful.  It wuz quite a treat to walk throngh'em.
But the old fireplaces, and mantle tray shelves spoke to our hearts of the generations that
had poked them fires, and leaned up against them mantle trays.  They went ahead on us through
the old rooms; I couldn't see 'em, but I felt their presence, as I follered 'em over the old
thresholts their feet had worn down a hundred years ago.  Their feet didn't make no sound,
their petticoats and short gowns didn't rustle against the old door ways and stair cases.

The dear old grandpas in their embroidered coats, didn't cast no shadow as they crossed the
sunshine that came in through the old-fashioned window panes.  No, but with my mind's eye (the
best eye I have got, and one that don't wear specks) I see 'em, and I follerd 'em down the
narrow, steep stair case, and out into the broad light of 4 P. M., 1886.

Anon, or shortly after, we drove up on a corner of the street jest above where the Fish creek
empties into the Hudson, and there, right on a tall high brick block, wuz a tablet, showin'
that a tree once stood jest there, under which Burgoyne surrendered.  And agin, when I thought
of all that he surrendered that day, and all that America and the world gained, my emotions
riz up so powerful, that they wuzn't quelled down a mite, by seein' right on the other side
of the house wrote down these words, "Drugs, Oils, etc."

No, oil couldn't smooth 'em down, nor drugs drug 'em; they wuz too powerful.  And they lasted
jest as soarin' and eloquent as ever till we turned down a cross street, and arrove at the
place, jest the identical spot where the British stacked their arms (and stacked all their
pride, and their ambitious hopes with 'em).  It made a high pile.

Wall, from there we went up to a house on a hill, where poor Baroness Riedesel hid with her
three little children, amongst the wounded and dyin' officers of the British army, and stayed
there three days and three nights, while shots and shells wuz a bombardin' the little house
-- and not knowin' but some of the shots had gone through her lover husband's heart, before
they struck the low ruff over her head.

What do you s'pose she wuz a thinkin' on as she lay hid in that suller all them three days
and three nights with her little girls' heads in her lap?  Jest the same thoughts that a mother
thinks to-day, as she cowers down with the children she loves, to hide from danger; jest the
same thoughts that a wife thinks today when her heart is out a facing danger and death, with
the man she loves.

She faced danger, and died a hundred deaths in the thought of the danger to them she loved.
I see the very splinters that the cruel shells and cannon balls split and tore right over her
head.  Good honorable splinters and not skairful to look at today, but hard, and piercin',
and harrowin' through them days and nights.

Time has trampled over that calash she rode round so much in (I wish I could a seen it); but
Time has ground it down into dust. Time's hand, quiet but heavy, rested down on the shinin'
heads of the three little girls, and their Pa and Ma, and pushed 'em gently but firmly down
out of sight; and all of them savages who used to follow that calash as it rolled onwards,
and all their canoes, and war hoops, and snowshoes, etc., etc.

Yes, that calash of Miss Riedesel has rolled away, rolled away years ago, carryin' the three
little girls, their Pa and Ma and all the fears, and hopes, and dreads, and joys, and heartaches
of that time it has rolled on with 'em all; on, on, down the dusty road of Oblivion, -- it
has disappeared there round the turn of road, and a cloud of dust comes up into our faces,
as we try to follow it.  And the Injuns that used to howl round it, have all follered on the
trail of that calash, and gone on, on, out of sight.  Their canoes have drifted away down the
blue Hudson, away off into the mist and the shadows.  Curius, haint it?

And there the same hills and valleys lay, calm and placid, there is the same blue sparklin'
Hudson.  Dretful curius, and sort a heart breakin' to think on't -- haint it?  Only jest a
few more years and we, too, shall go round the turn of the road, out of sight, out of sight,
and a cloud of dust will come up and hide us from the faces of them that love us, and them,
too, from the eyes of a newer people.

All our hopes, all our ambitious, all our loves, our joys, our sorrows, -- all, all will be
rolled away or floated away down the river, and the ripples will ripple on jest as happy; the
Sunshine will kiss the hills jest as warmly, and lovin'ly; but other eyes will look on 'em,
other hearts will throb and burn within 'em at the sight.

Kinder sad to think on, haint it?

XVIII.

THE SOCIAL SCIENCE MEETING.

One day Josiah and me went into a meetin' where they wuz kinder fixin' over the world, sort
a repairin' of it, as you may say. Some of the deepest, smartest speeches I ever hearn in my
life, I hearn there.

You know it is a middlin' deep subject.  But they rose to it. They rose nobly to it.  Some
wuz for repairin' it one way, and some another -- some wanted to kinder tinker it up, and make
it over like.  Some wanted to tear it to pieces, and build it over new.  But they all meant
well by the world, and nobody could help respectin' 'em.

I enjoyed them hours there with 'em, jest about as well as it is in my power to enjoy anything.
They wuz all on 'em civilized Christian folks and philanthropists of different shades and degrees,
all but one.  There wuz one heathen there.  A Hindoo right from Hindoostan, and I felt kinder
sorry for him.  A heathen sot right in the midst of them folks of refinement, and culture,
who had spent their hull lives a tryin' to fix over the world, and make it good.

This poor little heathen, with a white piller case, or sunthin' wound round his head (I s'pose
he hadn't money to buy a hat), and his small black eyes lookin' out kinder side ways from his
dark hombly little face, rousted up my pity, and my sympathy.  There had been quite a firm
speech made against allowin' foreigners on our shores.  And this little heathen, in his broken
speech, said, It all seemed so funny to him, when everybody wuz foreigners in this country,
to think that them that got here first should say they owned it, and send everybody else back.
And he said, It seemed funny to him, that the missionarys we sent over to his land to teach
them the truth, told them all about this land of Liberty, where everybody wuz free, and everybody
could earn a home for themselves, and urged 'em all to come over here, and then when they broke
away from all that held 'em in their own land, and came thousands and thousands of milds, to
get to this land of freedom and religion,then they wuz sent back agin, and wuzn't allowed to
land.  It seemed so funny.

And so it did to me.  And I said to myself, I wonder if they don't lose all faith in the missionarys,
and what they tell them. I wonder if they don't have doubts about the other free country they
tell 'em about.  The other home they have urged 'em to prepare for, and go to.  I wonder if
they haint afraid, that when they have left their own country and sailed away for that home
of Everlastin' freedom, they will be sent back agin, and not allowed to land.

But it comferted me quite a good deal to meditate on't, that that land didn't have no laws
aginst foreign emigration.  That its ruler wuz one who held the rights of the lowest, and poorest,
and most ignerent of His children, of jest as much account as he did the rights of a king.
Thinkses I that poor little head with the piller case on it will be jest as much looked up
to, as if it wuz white and had a crown on it.  And I felt real glad to think it wuz so.

But I went to every meetin' of 'em, and enjoyed every one of 'em with a deep enjoyment.  And
I said then, and I say now, for folks that had took such a hefty job as they had, they done
well, nobody could do better, and if the world wuzn't improved by their talk it wuz the fault
of the world, and not their'n.

And we went to meetin' on Sunday mornin' and night, and hearn good sermons.  There's several
high big churches at Saratoga, of every denomination, and likely folks belong to the hull on
'em: There is no danger of folks losin' their way to Heaven unless they want to, and they can
go on their own favorite paths too, be they blue Presbyterian paths, or Methodist pasters,
or by the Baptist boat, or the Episcopalian high way, or the Catholic covered way, or the Unitarian
Broadway, or the Shadow road of Spiritualism.

No danger of their losin' their way unless they want to.  And I thought to myself as I looked
pensively at the different steeples, "What though there might be a good deal of'wranglin',
and screechin', and puffin' off steam, at the different stations, as there must always be where
so many different routes are a layin' side by side, each with its own different runners, and
conductors, and porters, and managers, and blowers, still it must be, that the separate high
ways would all end at last in a serener road, where the true wayfarers and the earnest pilgrims
would all walk side by side, and forget the very name of the station they sot out from.

I sez as much to my companion, as we wended our way home from one of the meetin's, and he sez,
"There haint but one right way, and it is a pity folks can't see it."  Sez he a sithin' deep,
"Why can't everybody be Methodists?"

We wuz a goin' by the 'Piscopal church then, and he sez a lookin' at it, as if he wuz sorry
for it, "What a pity that such likely folks as they be, should believe in such eronious doctrines.
Why," sez he, "I have hearn that they believe that the bread at communion is changed into sunthin'
else.  What a pity that they should believe anything so strange as that is, when there is a
good, plain, practical, Christian belief that they might believe in, when they might be Methodists.
And the Baptists now," sez he, a glancin' back at their steeple, "why can't they believe that
a drop is as good as a fountain?  Why do they want to believe in so much water?  There haint
no need on't.  They might be Methodists jest as well as not, and be somebody."

And he walked along pensively and in deep thought, and I a feelin' somewhat tuckered didn't
argue with him, and silence rained about us till we got in front of the hall where the Spiritualists
hold their meetin's, and we met a few a comin' out on it and then he broke out and acted mad,
awful mad and skernful, and sez he angrily, "Them dumb fools believe in supernatural things.
They don't have a shadow of reason or common sense to stand on.  A man is a fool to gin the
least attention to them, or their doin's.  Why can't they believe sunthin' sensible?  Why can't
they jine a church that don't have anything curius in it?  Nothin' but plain, common sense
facts in it: Why can't they be Methodists?"

"The idee!" sez he, a breakin' out fresh.  "The idee of believin' that folks that have gone
to the other world can come back agin and appear.  Shaw!" sez he, dretful loud and bold.  I
don't believe I ever heard a louder shaw in my life than that wuz, or more kinder haughty and
highheaded.

And then I spoke up, and sez, "Josiah, it is always well, to shaw in the right place, and I
am afraid you haint studied on it as much as you ort.  I am afraid you haint a shawin' where
you ort to."

"Where should I shaw?" sez he, kinder snappish.

"Wall," sez I, "when you condemn other folkses beliefs, you ort to be careful that you haint
a condemin' your own belief at the same time.  Now my belief is grounded in the Methodist meetin'
house like a rock; my faith has cast its ancher there inside of her beliefs and can't be washed
round by any waves of opposin' doctrines.  But I am one who can't now, nor never could, abide
bigotry and intolerance either in a Pope, or a Josiah Allen.

"And when you condemn a belief simply on the ground of its bein' miraculous and beyond your
comprehension, Josiah Allen, you had better pause and consider on what the Methodist faith
is founded.

"All our orthodox meetin' houses, Presbyterian, Baptist, Methodist, Episcopalian, every one
on 'em, Josiah Allen, are sot down on a belief, a deathless faith in a miraculous birth, a
life of supernatural events, the resurrection of the dead, His appearance after death, a belief
in the graves openin' and the dead comin' forth, a belief in three persons inhabitin' one soul,
the constant presence and control of spiritual influences, the Holy Ghost, and the spirits
of just men.  And while you are a leanin' up against that belief, Josiah Allen, and a leanin'
heavy, don't shaw at any other belief for the qualities you hold sacred in your own."

He quailed a very little, and I went on.

"If you want to shaw at it, shaw for sunthin' else in it, or else let it entirely alone.  If
you think it lacks active Christian force, if you think it is not aggressive in its assaults
at Sin, if you think it lacks faith in the Divine Head of the church, say so, do; but for mercy's
sake try to shaw in the right place."

"Wall," sez he, "they are a low set that follers it up mostly, and you know it."  And his head
was right up in the air, and he looked very skernful.

But I sez, "Josiah Allen, you are a shawin' agin in the wrong place," sez I.  "If what you
say is true, remember that 1800 years ago, the same cry wuz riz up by Pharisees, `He eats with
Publicans and sinners.'  They would not have a king who came in the guise of the poor, they
scerned a spiritual truth that did not sparkle with worldly lustre.

"But it shone on; it lights the souls of humanity to-day.  Let us not be afraid, Josiah Allen.
Truth is a jewel that cannot be harmed by deepest investigation, by roughest handlin'.  It
can't be buried, it will shine out of the deepest darkness.  What is false will be washed away,
what is true will remain.  For all this frettin', and chafing, all this turbelence of conflectin'
beliefs, opposin' wills, will only polish this jewel.  Truth, calm and serene, will endure,
will shine, will light up the world."

He begun to look considerable softer in mean, and I continued on: "Josiah Allen, you and I
know what we believe the beautiful religion (Methodist Episcopal) that we both love, makes
a light in our two souls.  But don't let us stand in that light and yell out, that everybody
else's light is darkness; that our light is the only one.  No, the heavens are over all the
earth; the twelve gates of heaven are open and a shinin' down on all sides of us.

"Jonesville meetin' house (Methodist Episcopal) haint the only medium through which the light
streams.  It is dear to us, Josiah Allen, but let us not think that we must coller everybody
and drag 'em into it.  And let us not cry out too much at other folkses superstitions, when
the rock of our own faith, that comforts us in joy and sorrow, is sot in a sea of supernaturalism.

"You know how that faith comforts our two souls, how it is to us, like the shadow of a great
rock in a weary land, but they say, their belief is the same to them, let us not judge them
too hardly.  No, the twelve gates of heaven are open, Josiah Allen, and a shinin' down onto
the earth.  We know the light that has streamed into our own souls, but we do not know exactly
what rays of radience may have been reflected down into some other lives through some one of
those many gates.

"The plate below has to be prepared, before it can ketch the picture and hold it.  The light
does not strike back the same reflection from every earthly thing.  The serene lake mirrors
back the light, in a calm flood of glory, the flashin' waterfall breaks it into a thousand
dazzlin' sparkles.  The dewy petal of the yellow field lily, reflects its own ray of golden
light back, so does the dark cone of the pine tree, and the diamond, the opal, the ruby, each
tinges the light with its own coloring, but the light is all from above.  And they all reflect
the light, in their own way for which the Divine skill has prepared them.

"Let us not try to compel the deep blue Ocean waves and the shinin' waterfall, and the lily
blow, to reflect back the light, in the same identical manner.  No, let the light stream down
into high places, and low ones, let the truth shine into dark hearts, and into pure souls.
God is light.  God is Love.  It is His light that shines down out of the twelve gates, and
though the ruby, or the amethyst, may color it by their own medium, the light that is reflected,
back is the light of Heaven.  And Josiah Allen," sez I in a deeper, earnester tone, "let us
who know so little ourselves, be patient with other ignerent ones.  Let us not be too intolerent,
for no intolerence, Josiah Allen is so cruel as that of ignerence, an' stupidity."

Sez Josiah, "I won't believe in anything I can't see, Samantha Allen."

I jest looked round at him witheringly, and sez I, "What have you ever seen, Josiah Allen,
I mean that is worth sein'?  Haint everything that is worth havin' in life, amongst the unseen?
The deathless loves, the aspirations, the deep hopes, and faiths, that live in us and through
us, and animate us and keep us alive, -- Whose spectacles has ever seen 'em?  What are we,
all of us human creeters, any way, but little atoms dropped here, Heaven knows why, or how,
into the midst of a perfect sea of mystery, and unseen influences.  What hand shoved us forwards
out of the shadows, and what hand will reach out to us from the shadows and draw us back agin?
Have you seen it Josiah Allen?  You have felt this great onseen force a movin' you along, but
you haint sot your eyes on it.

"What is there above us, below us, about us, but a waste of mystery, a power of onseen influences?.

"You won't believe anything you can't see: -- Did you ever see
old Gravity, Josiah Allen, or get acquainted with him?  Yet his
hands hold the worlds together.  Who ever see the mysterious
sunthin' in the North that draws the ship's compass round?  Who
ever see that great mysterious hand that is dropped down in the
water, sweepin' it back and forth, makin' the tides come in, and
the tides go out?  Who ever has ketched a glimpse of them majestic
fingers, Josiah Allen?  Or the lips touched with lightnin', whose
whispers reach round the world, and through the Ocean? Mater pullchra,
pullchrior filia! - Said the doctor, outlining in his dark face a smirk
and swagger always with his hands over his stomach. - Well, young
people - he said to White, - I have a thirst, I have an ice cream
, Don Ramón, - he added to my uncle, - you take me for ice cream.
 

Will you permit me, to leave him by his uncle? - In order that the next waltz is mine ...-- I replied.
- Oh, well clear! we have a formal commitment - he said, and releasing the arm, playfully gave
my Uncle Ramon and both were removed from the group. - Is not it
true that my daughter is charmante? - said Dr. Montifiori to see retire.
- It's a lady, my dear doctor, full of attractions, and you will allow
me to reiterate my most enthusiastic congratulations and sincere congratulations
- the doctor answered, Laps, using the dulcet tone of his voice. -
A Nereid, a real Houri, is the beauty of Dido and the passage of a
goddess ...-- doctor said the other excitedly. - We have no role to
play in this dance ... Many démodé mom and can not glide all the girls
without being offended.

Therefore, my dear de las Vueltas, is that I love women ... Variety
easy!

... Last night was Fleur d'Eglantier apetitosísima in chansonette ... Quelle chatte! ... - Yes,
and what he sang? - Oh, mon cher! Mon sang Oscar!

... were in the avant-scène, with attachés in the Turkish embassy,
and the very ricotona myself singing to me all the couplets ... the
room was burning with envy!

... I was beyond reproach ... painted my shoes, my yellow gloves, a coat collar of silkskin ... in
short, splendid! We took my coupe clarence and dinner at the Cafe de Paris superbly ... a armoricains
and homard, Sempé only that is able to provide on this earth impossible!

" What woman so flirtante! ... Mon
petit Pichonot called me! In this moment my uncle came back with White
Ramón buffet. - Start our waltz, Miss, and I claim it.

Man, you stay with your friends and me back
mate, is not it ? - I told my Uncle Ramon. - I lay it, if she agrees
- he said, as White, it appears smiling in his arm, left to my uncle
and we drove back from that group, which formed one of the most interesting
pictures of the room.

The waltz again; entered the great hall and we got lost in the sea of
dancers. White had spent his interesting pallor to a soft red, which
revealed that cause involuntary arousal in women and dance music.

The last waltz I had danced with a fierce drive and a twenty.

His blue
eyes, melancholy and somewhat ecstatic usually were illuminated with an intense
fire, his mouth ajar betrayed that seductive softness that pervades
the whole delicate organism of women in the fleeting hours of the party.
We sat on a couch at the end of the piece that we danced, and as I tried
to keep a certain respectful distance, throwing himself on the back
of the seat, and bowing her head gracefully, he said: - Why so far?

Come here more ... take my fan, give me air, choking me ... I obeyed mechanically, and as I
approached gently brushed his knee, which can be sensed through the garment and felt his touch warm
flesh. - Closer, abaníqueme you ... well ... Oh, now !...-- breath
and sighed with all your soul, and, sigh, the curves of her breast
fell off a moment of tulle and covered them again draw your sober
but voluptuous bust.

I my partner had come all that good taste allows.

Fortunately at that time a team was organized, and compact line of
couples covered us in the eyes of the world.

Sometimes a dance is just a desert. The music broke away and White and I, on our couch, we enjoyed
the advantage that nobody cared about us. - What about your father?

How long have died ?...-- asked in a tone full of tenderness. - Twenty
years ago, when I was a child ...-- I replied. - It is sad without
father or mother, so young ... - Very sad, Blanca. - And more so because
you have no luck and fortune is now indispensable in Buenos Aires.

But fortunately life should be abominable. At least, I do not conceive. - Do not you believe
in love? ... - Alone? - Keenly watched me. - Yes - I said looking at her. - No! - she answered me with
indifference ...--¿ wants to be my friend?

Do you want to keep my confidence? ... I am a strange woman, strange. I have not ever loved and I do not
know if I've ever felt, be called love, but never even love a lot, I would never marry a poor man.
I have horror, fear, poverty ... - It is sad - I replied, - be a man who does not love, it must
be something terrible in life ... - I think not.

You can love your husband, love him as a friend ... At last the husband is nothing around ten years.
How do you envisage that Don Ramon, his uncle, is in love with Mistress Medea? Impossible!
- No, Blanche!

But if you marry a man who does not love, how can you close your
soul forever, you flower in the world at last?

... - But, not closing it, my friend ... I do not know if one day I
fall in love, but if such a thing happened, single or married, I
would follow the rule of my passions ... - Married ?...-- also asked,
approaching as much as possible. - Married, too - he said, his breath
face me drunk.

The woman was maddening at the time. On the night, but July was warm,
and balconies that overlook the street from Peru, were parted: we
were sitting near the third balcony. A couple of those that are formed
with a mom boring and a companion of commitment, came to sit beside
us and we devoted a candid look of curiosity.

I seized the opportunity to invite Blanca we abandon the field to
the enemy and she accepted.

Walking past the balcony door, cried: - What a splendid night "- and was stopped for a moment on the
door frame - the heat is so unbearable in the room! - Indeed, the night is superb - I said - "go
out to the balcony? - I added my word accompanied with a slight pressure in the arm that was linked
to mine. - I said we criticize ...-- .-- This world does not see
so well these things ... but I do not care anything about him, go
out, - he said resolutely, and taking the road itself the door, opened
it and together we entered the balcony.

It was three o'clock in the morning and a waning moon, illuminated
the roofs of the sleeping city, the street was deserted, gas lanterns,
with its red light flickered, forming from the corner of the club
to the Retiro a path that seemed lit by footlights.

As you enter the balcony, a couple we had narrowed again and doors
from outside, which prevailed in the shade, made a strange contrast
that brightly lit room in which the different inks of the costumes,
music and noise, producing a varied and constant movement. - We have
enclosed - White said ...--¡ is original!

... - Are you
afraid of being alone with me ?...-- asked. - Fear me!

I have never had ... What could be afraid of you?

... - Me?
... nothing but the admiration you inspire me to make me take this moment
to do something crazy. - What madness? - I said, leaning back with
a smile of pleasure. - ...-- This will answered, and advancing on
the balcony space to the corner where the fence ends, pushed gently,
I took a second one of his gloves, took her hand, I took my mouth,
I put my arms around the neck and covered it with kisses and dumb
that she shunned just intense, somewhat coldly laughing breathlessly
irritating.

The town clock struck at that time three in the morning, and the
echo of the bell died away in the silence of the night. - "You know
I have a ravenous hunger and feel cold - he told me - enter - and
his face, he uttered these words, did not reflect the slightest impression
of what had just happened. - White - told - Do you love me?

... - I do not know - I answered .-- What do you want to know?

"Although I love, I would not marry you!

... - Why? - "Because you have nothing.

I am a woman I love much the world and luxury ... I need a husband who is able to provide me with all my
tastes ... Let this, and, now, love me, keep loving me, I'll give all my heart - he said laughing.
And changing his tone and how adopting a resolution, he added: - I have hunger, did you hear? Take
me to dinner!

We left the balcony and went back into the room. I had blood on his
head, but this woman was cold as a tombstone.

The
dining room staircase met Don Benito Fernanda who was walking yet. - How are you, my daughter
- Fernanda said, running her hand over face - you have fun? - Ah, much, much, Mom - Then said
White. - And you, Don Benito?

... Know I have to thank him for his companion.

He is a master; waltzing beautifully ... - Nothing but the waltz? - Don Benito asked sarcastically.
- Oh, nothing!

No woman chic dancing else ... Is not that right, Mom? - Why not? ... Crews are rule at a
dance. - For us there!

We have spent the past on the balcony ... - What you say, Blanca?
- Fernanda asked in a tone of surprise. - Yes, Mom, on the balcony!

Don Benito looked at me with a smile full of mischief and I made a supreme effort to contain my excitement.
But White, with sudden resolution, I dragged heavily on the arm that
had grabbed me and pulled me out of the landing where we had stopped.
- Well, what does that matter? - White asked retiring and looking
at the ...--¿ mother has something wrong with what we've done - and
shrugging his shoulders with a jerk, he added with a laugh: - Come
to dinner!

We entered the room we all know: a large living room which lacks much to be well placed. That night, Canale,
as usual, had been the big horseshoe table with central table, and
she had raised the same catafalque paperboard and pulp of sugar every
year.

The execrable dinner at the Club del Progreso, and the decoration of the table has a lot of
the decorations of church: the ham in jelly shelves, turkeys and galantines covered by all the
flags of the world. In short, there sits one with the indifference with which Raul and feel Nevers
at the banquet of wallpaper of the first act of the Huguenots.

The young man approached us and gave us the letter. Asked White bisque
and made us to serve champagne.

She was the
daughter of the father, the delicacies of the table seduced more than anything
else. He devoured the first plate and drained the cup forward. We had
sat at one end of the table, flowers and ornamental plants covered
us in front of the neighbors.

I had approached White enough to assist her, but she do not
know whether intentionally or not, closed the distance as close as possible
to my seat. - You do not drink anything - I said - do you have fear
of losing your head? - No ... if you lose, I would lose it with you
- I replied. - Yo!

... would be useless, I have very strong head for the champagne ... Let us drink again ... drink
to our friendship! - I raised the cup with her, and together they hurried their content. - You
are a woman of ice - I said. - Me?

What nonsense! you do not know me, what I am is a capricious woman ... Do you think that ice with
a woman you would have done what he did tonight? "No. .. the day I come to love, love like no other.
- Me? - I do not know anyone, and you, if you can make me happy, to another, if you is not ...
At that now beginning to dawn, the first dawn of day we drew behind
the towers of San Francisco and the horizon began to faintly stained
red ink.

We left the table and approached the glass to admire that picture
sublime before which paled the dancing lights.

White was leaning on my arm and dropped his body on mine weakly.
- It's pretty early - I said, pressing with passion ... - No! - I
said - I like the night ... let's go, the sun tremble surprise me
in the street - and crawling with force, descended the stairs and
made me drive it to the toilet. - ...-- Bye said shaking his hand.
- Goodbye - I squeezing mine said that his fingers were printed thin
and nervous.

In turn, I met Don Benito had just left his companion. - And ...
How are you, White? - Cold as marble - I said. - Ah, my son - he said
- the girl is like a mother, a statue that one can shake, kiss and
steal; but a statue, not moving never without music ... - What music?
- I asked. - Innocent! the pound sterling, a score that does not support
school rivalries - and putting his coat on his arm, and assembling
the claque, led me out and brought me into the coupe which he began
shooting just rang the door coup.

Fatigue gave me that night, but I could not rest. White's image appealed to me involuntarily mocking
one appeared to walk and stop in my way as giving me time to catch
up, and when I thought having her around, the vision disappeared,
leaving in my dream the light path of her red dress that seemed to
dissolve in the air at dazzling impalpable flakes of fire.

XII The next day I ate at my Aunt Medea with Don Benito and Uncle
Ramon.

We did the story of the dance before sitting down to eat, but to take
our seats, the conversation changed the subject. My aunt had had
a furious quarrel that day in Philanthropic Society about bazaar do not
know what their colleagues had been allowed to completely ignore it. When
you hear us talking about the ball, forced us to shut up, walked two
or three sentences hurtful to my uncle, having been allowed to attend
the club and began to tell their journey.

It seems that this had been a field of Agramante: the emotion of my aunt
had been put to a vote three times and three times he had been rejected.

Furious,
as she only knew when he itched to get rabies, had left the Society with
the hat all crooked, roaring like a lioness, with her skirt tucked
up, and on foot, with short, quick step, had come to his house without
interrupting colossal series of curses that had been fired from their
hated classmates.

My aunt was sitting at
the table without appetite, excited as ever by the altercation I
just tell without details.

His eyes, more congested than usual, shone in a sinister way.

My Uncle Ramon went from a gentle humor to a complete annihilation,
blasted under fire from those feline eyes.

The broad face of my aunt revealed the startling reflection of your
veins drowned by the waves of thick blood lazy and motionless.

When sitting at the table had been assaulted thousand inconveniences
unknown to her, sudden hot flashes that reddened his cheeks momentarily
lax fire blows to the eye, stabbing pains in the neck, lightning,
darkening, beats and whatnot vague forebodings of a sudden attack
crossed poking their imagination and making occasional cry of despair
with some agitation: - Jesus, God, do I have?



The old Banker told Ardelia that when his neighbor got home he would take her back to Saratoga,
which he did.  He had been to the village for necessaries, but he turned right round and carried
her back to Mr. Pixleyses.  And I s'pose Ardelia paid him, mebby as high as 75 cents.  As for
Bial, he tramped off into the house, and she didn't see him agin, nor didn't want to. Wall,
I s'pose it wuz durin' that ride on the wheelbarrow, that Ardelia's ambition quelled to softer
emotions.  I s'pose so.  She never owned it right up to me, but I s'pose so.

Bial Flamburg hadn't lied a word to her.  In all her agony she realized that.  But she had
built a high towerin' structure of ambition on what he said, and it had tottered.  And as is
natural in times of danger, the heart turns instinctively to its true love, she thought of
Abram Gee, she wanted him.  And as if in answer to her deep and lovin' thought, who should
come out to the buggy to help her out at Mr. Pixleyses gate, but Abram Gee?  He had come unexpected,
and on the eight o'clock train, and wuz there waitin' for her.

If Bial Flamburg had been with her, he wouldn't have gone a nigh the buggy, but he see it was
a old man, and he rushed out. Ardelia couldn't walk a step on her feet (owin' to bein shaken
up, in bones and feelin's), and Abram jest took her in his strong lovin' arms and carried her
into the house, and she sort a clung round his neck, and seemed tickled enough to see him,

But she wuz dretful shook up and agitated, and it wuzn't till way along in the night some time,
that she wuz able to write a poem called, "a lay on a wheelbarrow; or, the fallen one."

Which I thought when I read it, wuz a good name for it, for truly she had fell, and truly she
had lay on it.  Howsumever, Ardelia wrote that jest because it wuz second nater to write poetry
on every identical thing she ever see or did.

She wuz glad enough to get rid of Bial Flamburg, and glad enough to go back to her old love.
Abram wuz too manly and tender to say a word to Ardelia that night on the subject nearest to
his heart.  No, he see she needed rest.  But the next day, when they wuz alone together, I
s'pose he put the case all before her.  All his warm burnin' love for her, all his jealousy,
and his wretchedness while she wuz a waverin' between Banks and Bread, how his heart had been
checked by the thought that Bial would vault over him, and in the end hold him at a discount.

Why, I s'pose he talked powerful and melted Ardelia's soft little heart till it wuz like the
softest kind of dough in his hands. And then he went on tenderly to say, how he needed her,
and how she could mould him to her will.  I s'pose he talked well, and eloquent, I s'pose so.
Anyhow she accepted him right there in full faith and a pink and white cambric dress.

And they came over and told me about it in the afternoon P. M. And I felt well and happy in
my mind, and wished 'em joy with a full heart and a willin' mind.

They are both good creeters.  And she bein' so soft, and he so kinder hardy and stout-hearted,
I believe they will get along firstrate.  And when she once let her mind and heart free to
think on him, she worships him so openly and unreservedly (though soft), that I don't, believe
there is a happier man in the hull country.

Wall, I lay out to give'em a handsome present when they be married, which will be in the fall.
Mother Gee (who has got as well as can be expected) is goin' to live with Susan.  And I'm glad
on't.  Mother Gee is a good old female no doubt, but it is resky work to take a new husband
to live with, and when you take a mother-in-law too it adds to the resk.

But she is goin' to live with Susan; it is her prefference.

And Abram has done so well, that he has bought another five acres onto his place, and is a
goin' to fix his house all over splendid before the weddin' day.  And Ardelia is to go right
from the altar to her home -- it is her own wishes.

She knows enough in her way, Ardelia duz.  And she has a wisdom of the heart which sometimes
I think, goes fur ahead of the wisdom of the head.  And then agin, I think they go well together,
wisdom of the head and the heart too.  (The times I think this is after readin' her poetry.)

But any way she will make Abram a good soft little wife, lovin' and affectionate always.  And
good land! he loves her to that extent that it wouldn't make no difference to him if she didn't
know enough to come in when it rained.  He would fetch her in, drippin' and worship her, damp
or dry.

XX.

AN ACCIDENT WITH RESULTS.

Wall, it wuz on the very day before we laid out to leave for home.  I wuz a settin' in my room
a mendin' up a rip in my pardner's best coat, previous to packin' in his trunk, when all of
a sudden Miss Flamm's hired girl came in a cryin', and sez I, "What is the matter?"

And sez she, "Ah!  Miss Flamm has sent for you and Mr. Allen to come over there right away.
There has been a axident."

"A axident!" sez I.

"Yes," sez she.  "The little girl has got hurt, and they don't think she will live.  Poor little
pretty thing," sez the hired girl, and busted out a cryin' agin.

"How did she get hurt?" sez I, as I laid down the coat, and went to tyin' on my bunnet mekanically.

"Wall, the nurse had her out with the baby and the little boys. And we s'pose she had been
drinkin' too much.  We all knew she drinked, and she wuzn't in a condition to go out with the
children this mornin', and Miss Flamm would have noticed it and kep' 'em in, but the dog wuz
sick all night, and Miss Flamm wuz up with it most all night, and she felt wore out this mornin'
with her anxtety for the dog, and her want of sleep, and so they went out, and it wuzn' more'n
half an hour before it took place. She left the baby carriage and the little boys and girl
in a careless place, not knowin' what she wuz about, and they got run over.  The baby and the
little boys wuzn't hurt much, but they think the little girl will die.  Miss Flamm went right
into a caniption fit," sez she, "when she wuz brung in."

"It is a pity she hadn't went into one before," sez I very dryly, dry as a chip almost.  My
axents wuz fairly dusty they wuz so dry.  But my feelin's for Miss Flamm moistened up and melted
down when I see her, when we went into the room.  It didn't take us long for they are still
to the tarven, and we met Josiah Allen at the door, so he went with us.

Yes, Miss Flamm felt bad enough, bad enough.  She has got a mother's heart after all, down
under all the strings and girtins, and laces, and dogs, etc., etc., that have hid it, and surrounded
it.  Her face wuz jest as white and deathly as the little girl's, and that wuz jest the picture
of stillness and death.  And I remembered then that I had heard that the little girl wuz her
favorite amongst her children, whenever she had any time to notice 'em.  She wuz a only daughter
and a beauty, besides bein' smart.

The doctor had been there and done what he could, and go gone away.  He said there wuz nothin'
more to do till she came out of that stuper, if she ever did.

But it looked like death, and there Miss Flamm sot alone with her child, and her conscience.
She wuzn't a cryin' but there wuz a look in her eyes, in her set white face that went beyond
tears, fur beyond 'em.  She gripped holt of my hand with her icy cold ones, and sez she, "Pray
for me!"  She wuz brung up a Methodist, and knew we wuz the same.  My feelin's overcame me
as I looked in her face and the child's, both lookin' like dyin' faces, and I sez with the
tears a jest runnin' down my cleeks and a layin' my hand tender on her shoulder, "Is there
anything I can do for you, you poor little creeter?"

"Pray for me," sez she agin, with her white lips not movin' in a smile, nor a groan.

Now my companion, Josiah Allen, is a class-leader, and though I say it that mebby shouldn't
-- That man is able in prayer.  He prays as if he meant what he said.  He don't try to show
off in oritory as so many do, or give the Lord information.  He never sez, "Oh Lord, thou knowest
by the mornin' papers, so and so." No, he prays in simple words for what he wants.  And he
always seems to feel that somebody is nigh to him, a hearin' him, and if it is best and right,
his requests will be granted.

So I motioned for that man to kneel down by the bed and pray, which he did.  He wuz to the
fore side of the bed, and Miss Flamm and I on the other side.  Wall, Josiah commenced his prayer,
in a low earnest askin' voice, then all of a sudden he begun to hesitate, waver, and act dretful
agitated.  And his actions and agitations seemed to last for some time.  I thought it wuz his
feelin's overcomin' of him, and of course, my hand bein' over my eyes in a respectful, decent
way, I didin't see nothin'.

But at last, after what wuz seemingly a great effort, he began to go on as usual agin.  About
that time I heard sunthin' hit the wall hard on the other side of the room, and I heard a yelp.
But then everything wuz still and Josiah Allen made a good prayer. And before it wuz through
Miss Flamm laid her head down onto my shoulder, and busted into tears.

And what wuz rooted up and washed away by them tears I don't know, and I don't s'pose anybody
duz.  Whether vanity, and a mistaken ambition, and the poor empty successes of a fashionable
life wuz uprooted and floated away on the awakened, sweepin' tide of a mother's love and remorse;
whether the dog floated down that stream, and low necked dresses, and high hazardus slippers,
and strings for waists and corsets, and fashion, and folly, and rivalry, and waltzin', and
glitter, and buttons, and show; whether they all went down that stream, swept along like bubbles
on a heavin' tumultuous tide, I don't know, nor I don't s'pose anybody duz.

But any way, from that day on Miss Flamm has been a different woman.  I stayed with her all
that night and the next day, she a not leavin' the child's bed for a minute, and we a not gettin'
of her to, much as we tried to; eatin' whatever we could make her eat right there by the bedside.
And on the 2d day the doctor see a change in the child and she began to roust a little out
of that stuper, and in a week's time, she wuz a beginnin' to get well.

We stayed on till she wuz out of danger and then we went home. But I see that she wuz to be
trusted with her children after that.  She dismissed that nurse, got a good motherly one, who
she said would help her take care of the children for the future; only help her, for she should
have the oversight of 'em herself, always.

The hired girl told me (Miss Flamm never mentioned it to me), and she wuz glad enough of it,
that the dog wuz dead.  It died the day the little girl wuz hurt.  The hired girl said the
doctor had told Miss Flamm, that it couldn't live long.  But it wuzn't till we wuz on our way
home that I found out one of the last eppisodes in that dog's life.  You see, sick as that
dog wuz, it wuz bound to bark at my pardner as long as it had a breath left in its body. And
Josiah told me in confidence (and it must be kep', it is right that it should be); he said
jest after he had knelt down and began to pray he felt that dog climb up onto his heels, and
pull at his coat tails, and growl a low mad growl, and naw at 'em.

He tried to nestle round and get it off quietly but no, there it stood right onto Josiah Allen's
heels, and hung on, and tugged at them coat-tails, and growled at 'em that low deep growl,
and shook 'em, as if determined to worry 'em off.  And there my companion wuz.  He couldn't
show his feelin's in his face; he had got to keep his face all right towards Miss Flamm.  And
his feelin's was rousted up about her, and he wuz a wantin', and knew he wuz expected, to have
his words and manner soothin' and comfortin', and that dog a standin' on his heels and tearin'
off his coat-tails.

What to do he didn't know.  He couldn't stop his prayer on such a time as this and kill a dog,
though he owned up to me that he felt like it, and he couldn't keep still and feel his coat-tails
tore off of him, and be growled at, and shook, and pawed at all day. What reason assumed I envy
the love of others more fortunate, who could reward the sky with them their virtues, and the
Prophet his courage and constancy?

Abenza Oh!, Showed these reasons it clearer understanding my worried
mind , but never managed to boot it the first seal of anger, or something
else indefinable feeling.

Could it be that the human heart is always set as the center of the universe, and it considers that
all ideas of grandeur, beauty, sublime they have to go it alone?

Is it me, vain and proud (I am ashamed to say), I believed with the right
only in the world that the love of unseen beauty, as well as my imagination
painted her as gifted heaven?

Or, dear Abenza, the power of this blood burning of Saudi encouraging
my chest, will, like in all our tribe, the fatal gift of light from
the faintest idea of love of the horrific volcano delirium and jealousy?
What have I given by you by my side in those moments of longing and
sorrow, and find comfort in your tips and best experience?

But it was in vain, the solitude was my only company, do not hide that in wings of my thoughts coming,
which iris comforter, more flattering hope to dispel those anger.

I could not give merely an uncertain perhaps the mullioned windows open, the wandering of the pigeons
and prowling around me that the bar and the letter .

Embedded in these rants, and more loving than ever flower box where they had so rosy scene,
returned to enjoy their freshness, at that point further enhanced
with gentle streams of light that the moon, all full of your drive,
shed among the festoons of green that was so florida mansion.

Oh dear friend! That was for me the day of illusions, still wandering in my fancy so contrary
thoughts, not knowing how many hours of the night would run, when
I had another appearance no less strange than the first. Catur ALICAK
OR TWO MINISTERS AND HOW MANY ARE may the sad be removed from its
sadness, but never the evil of his wickedness.

Judgement Arabic. Caleb rode gently in a magnificent Egyptian donkey, going the route, from
Esbilia, the right guide to the city of Cordoba, the Caliph then purple. In proportion as the
distance from the road is shortened, the donkey showed himself very
light and walkers, as if the smell of a great city and famous court
will announce the next meeting of some individuals of his large family.

The donkey, I say, so calm itchy and a pasitrote so quiet and smooth,
the rider, giving his fantasy in his mind was saying this: "In the
schools of Cuf few equals, and none stood out on my reputation: I
know with semicolons the Suras [15] of the Koran, the Sunna decisions
[16] and those of Cadiz.

"My verses are sung by the beauties of the harem, my notes from the
Wazir reads history, no one can shame for my actions and greater fortune,
good and bad I want to hate me.

Oh, good Allah! Apply How well did the study and imitate the Catur
idiot!

And how much better I was to follow the principles of fair not the
perversity of Alicak!

Oh good Allah, what I expected this as complete! "However much recreation
that Caleb had his crazy thoughts, to enter a mall that shaded the path
along which he walked him out of his brooding voice that was singing
this way: Everyone looks their equal: tit for tat, tit for tat, fortune
sitting inside to know that a fool arrives, it will surely come to
meet me, that the log to the log reach, and everything seeks its center.

Everyone looks equal, tit for tat, tit for tat. Caleb was surprised not so
much the philosophical sense of the mantra as the accent of the singer,
who sounded like something worth their knowledge and familiarity, and
wanted to prick his traveling companion, but it was not necessary,
because the donkey, by a superior instinct, decided to jog very gentle
and powerful.

A short distance walker and hiker met, and what would be the pleasant surprise of them both when they
were recognized by two former classmates, Caleb and Catur.

  For I knew not what unguarded word he might drop as he vainly tried to grip hold
on't, and it eluded his efferts and came down on the ground every time, a carryin' with it,
I s'pose, portions of his fingernails, broke off in the fray.

Wall, he wuz a strugglin' with it and with his feelin's, for I kep' on a sayin', "Josiah, do
be calm!  Do be careful about usin' a profane word so nigh home and at this time of day, and
you jest home from a tower."

And he kep' his feelin's nobly under control, and never said a word, only to wonder "what under
the High Heavens a woman wanted to lug round a ton of stuns in her trunk for."  And anon sayin'
that he would be dumbed if he didn't leave it right there on the platform.

Savin' these few slight remarks that man nobly restrained himself, and lugged and lifted till
the blood almost gushed through his bald head.  And right in the midst of the fray, a porter
came up and went to liftin' the trunk in the usual highheaded, haughty way Railroad officials
have.  But anon a change came over his linement.  And as it fell back from his fingers to the
platform for the 3d time, he broke out in a torrent of swearin' words dretful to hear.

I felt as if I should sink through the "Democrat".  But Josiah listened to the awful words
with a warm glow of pleasure and satisfaction a beamin' from his face.  I never saw him look
more complacent.  And as the man moistened his hands and with another frightful burst of profanity
histed it into the end of the buggy.

Wall, I gin the man a few warnin' words aginst profanity, and Josiah gin him a quarter for
liftin' in the trunk, he said, and we drove off in the meller glow of the summer sunset.

But it wuz duskish before we got to the turn of the road, and considerable dark before we got
to the Corners.  But we went on tbgough the shadows, a feelin' we could bear 'em, for we wuz
together, and we wuz a goin' home.

And pretty soon we got there! I will protect the opening day of hunting, and I'm sure there has to
happen to anything unpleasant.

It is an old male and lively rascal yet, even though he has already
mentioned the horseshoe in the chest and some scattered white feathers the
body.

