In the letters of the two young ladies, it is presumed, will be found not only the highest
exercise of a reasonable and practicable friendship, between minds endowed with the noblest
principles of virtue and religion, but occasionally interspersed, such delicacy of sentiments,
particularly with regard to the other sex; such instances of impartiality, each freely, as
a fundamental principle of their friendship, blaming, praising, and setting right the other,
as are strongly to be recommended to the observation of the younger part (more specially) of
female readers.

The principle of these two young ladies is proposed as an exemplar to her sex. Nor is it any
objection to her being so, that she is not in all respects a perfect character. It was not
only natural, but it was necessary, that she should have some faults, were it only to show
the reader how laudably she could mistrust and blame herself, and carry to her own heart, divested
of self-partiality, the censure which arose from her own convictions, and that even to the
acquittal of those, because revered characters, whom no one else would acquit, and to whose
much greater faults her errors were owing, and not to a weak or reproachable heart. As far
as it is consistent with human frailty, and as far as she could be perfect, considering the
people she had to deal with, and those with whom she was inseparably connected, she is perfect.
To have been impeccable, must have left nothing for the Divine Grace and a purified state to
do, and carried our idea of her from woman to angel. As such is she often esteemed by the man
whose heart was so corrupt that he could hardly believe human nature capable of the purity,
which, on every trial or temptation, shone out in her's [sic].

Besides the four principal person, several others are introduced, whose letters are characteristic:
and it is presumed that there will be found in some of them, but more especially in those of
the chief character among the men, and the second character among the women, such strokes of
gayety, fancy, and humour, as will entertain and divert, and at the same time both warn and
instruct.

From what has been said, considerate readers will not enter upon the perusal of the piece before
them as if it were designed only to divert and amuse. It will probably be thought tedious to
all such as dip into it, expecting a light novel, or transitory romance; and look upon story
in it (interesting as that is generally allowed to be) as its sole end, rather than as a vehicle
to the instruction.

Different persons, as might be expected, have been of different opinions, in relation to the
conduct of the Heroine in particular situations; and several worthy persons have objected to
the general catastrophe, and other parts of the history.

NAMES OF THE PRINCIPAL PERSONS

  MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, a young lady of great beauty and merit.
  ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ. her admirer.
  JAMES HARLOWE, ESQ. father of Clarissa.
  MRS. HARLOWE, his lady.
  JAMES HARLOWE, their only son.
  ARABELLA, their elder daughter.
  JOHN HARLOWE, ESQ. elder brother of James Harlowe, sen.
  ANTONY HARLOWE, third brother.
  ROGER SOLMES, ESQ. an admirer of Clarissa, favoured by her friends.
  MRS. HERVEY, half-sister of Mrs. Harlowe.
  MISS DOLLY HERVEY, her daughter.
  MRS. JUDITH NORTON, a woman of great piety and discretion, who had a
  principal share in the education of Clarissa.
  COL. WM. This latter has been twice translated into German,
  Leipz. 1839, and Berlin too 1846.][
  
  Footnote 92: Starozytney
  wiessci z XI go XVI go i XVII go wieko. The author
  had published a similar work before.

Polish
  proverbs have also been collected by Knapski and Rysinski.][
  
  
  Footnote 93: Zarysy domowe,
  Warsaw 1841;
  
  and Niewasty Polskie, Wars. 1844.][
  
  Footnote 94: Klechdy, Starozytnye powviesci
  
  i podania ludu Polskigo i Rusi, Warsaw 1837.][
  
  Footnote 95: Piesni ludu bielachrobatow, Mazurow i Rusiz
  nad Buga, Lemb 1838.][
  
  
  
  Footnote 96: Duma, Dumka, means thought, and is the name of the elegaic, mostly
  historical, ballads of the Malo- Russian people.][ Footnote 97: See
more on this subject in Part IV.][ Footnote 98: The title is Spiewy
Cesarstwa Rossyiskiego, i. e. Historical songs of the Russian emperors.][
Footnote 99: English reader will find further information on Polish
literature in Bowring' s Introduction to his Polish Anthology, Lond.

1827; in Ljach Szyrma'
s Letters on Poland, published in London; and in an article on Polish
Literature in the Foreign Quarterly Review, Vol.

XXV. No. 49. These are the only sources
in the English language with which we are acquainted. In grammatical and
lexical works the Polish language is very rich; but the interest
which the English have recently shown for the fate of the Poles seems
not to extend to their language.

The following are the principal works. GRAMMARS: in German, Krumholz
Polnische Grammatik, Breslau 1797, 6th edit. Auszug aus Kopczynski' s Grammatik,
von Polsfuss, Breslau 1794, Mrongovius Poln.
  

Sprachlehre, Königsb 1794, and in several altered editions, under different
titles; last edition Danzig 1836. Szumski' s Poln. Gramm. Posen 1830.
Vater' s Grammatik der Poln.

Sprache, Halle 1807. Bantkie Poln. Grammatik attached to his Dictionary,
Breslau 1808- 1824.

Szrzeniawa Wortforschungslehre der polnischen Sprache, Lemberg and
Lemgo 1842- 43. Poplinski Polnische Grammatik, Lissa 1836; last edition
1840. Stostakowskiego Polska Gramm. Trzemeszne 1846. Schieweck Grammatik
der.

Polnischen Sprache, Fraustadt and Neustadt 1847. In French, Kopczynski
Essai d' une grammaire Polonaise, Wars. 1807. Trambczynski Grammatique
raisonnée de la langue Polonaise, new edit.

Warsaw 1793. DICTIONARIES, in German and French. The most useful
are, Mrongovius Handwörterbuch der Poln.

Sprachte, latest edit. Danz. 1823. Troc Franz- poln.- deutsches Wörterbuch in several editions from 1742 to
1821. J. V. Bantkie Taschenwörterbuch der Poln. Sprache,( German and French,) Breslau and Wars. in several
editions from 1805 to 1819. Slownik Francusko- Polski, Dictionaire
Polonais Français, Berlin and Leipzig 1839- 45. Dict. Polonais- Francais,
2 vols. 18mo. Paris 1844. J. A. E. Schmidt, Nouveau Dictionaire portatif
Francais et Polonais, Zerbst 1817.

Polnisch- Deutsches Taschenwörterbuch, von Jordan, Leipzig 1845.-- Standard
works for the language are the etymological dictionaries: G. S. Bantkie
Slownik dokladny iez. pol. i. niem.

Breslau 1806, and Linde' s Slownik iez. pol.

Wars. 1807- 14. For other philological works, see Schaflarik' s Geschichte
der Slav.

The north- eastern part of Germany, as far west as the Elbe and Saale,
was, from the fifth to the tenth century, almost exclusively inhabited
by nations of the Slavic race.

Various Teutonic tribes-- among them the Burgundians, the Suevi,
Heruli, and Hermunduri-- had before this taken up their temporary
residence along the Baltic, between the Vistula and the Elbe.

In the great migration of the Asiatic- European nations, which for
nearly two centuries kept in motion all Europe from the Icy Ocean
to the Atlantic, and extended even to the north of Africa, the warlike
German nations moved towards the south- west, and Slavic tribes traversing
the Danube and Vistula, in immense multitudes, took possession of
the countries which they left.

Those who came over the northern Vistula, settled along the coasts of
the Baltic as far west as to the Elbe and Saale, and as far south
as to the Erzgebirge( Ore Mountains) on the borders of Bohemia.

These Slavic tribes were called by the Germans, Wenden, Lat. Venedi, for which we prefer in English the form
of Vendes, rather than that of Wends. It appears indeed that this name
was formerly applied by the Germans indiscriminately to all the Slavic nations
with which they came in contact; for the name Winden, Eng. Vindes,
which is still, as we have seen, the German appellation for the Slovenzi,
or the Slavic inhabitants of Southern Germany, is evidently the same
in a slightly altered form.

The name of Wenden, Vendes, became, however, in the course of time, a specific appellation for the northern
German- Slavic tribes; of which, at the present day, only a few meagre
remnants are left.

They nevertheless once a powerful nation. Five independent branches must
be distinguished among them. We first name the Obotrites, the former inhabitants
of the present duchies of Mecklenburg, and eastern neighbours the
Wiltzi,( Germ.

Wilzen, Lat. Veletabæ,) with whom they lived in perpetual warfare, were
the most warlike and powerful among the Vendish tribes. The Wiltzi
or Pomeranians lived interspersed with the Kassubes, a Lekhish tribe,
between the Oder and the Vistula, and were subjugated by the Obotrites
in A. D. 782.

It was however only by the utmost exertions, that these latter could
maintain their own independence against their western and southern
neighbours, the Germans. Conquered by Charlemagne, they regained their
independence under his successors, and centuries passed away in constant
and bloody conflicts and alternate fortunes. In the middle of the
twelfth century, however, they were completely subjugated by Henry
the Lion, duke of Saxony and Bavaria.

He laid waste their whole country, destroyed most of the people, and compelled the few remaining inhabitants
and their prince, to accept Christianity from his bloody hands. In A. D.
1167 he restored to this latter, whose name was Pribislaus, a part
of his kingdom, and gave his daughter Matilda in marriage to the son
of, who, a few years later, was made a prince of the empire, and was
thus gained over to the German cause.

His descendants are the present dukes of Mecklenburg; and it is a memorable
fact, that these princes are at the present day the only sovereigns
in Europe of the Slavic race.

German priests and German colonists introduced the German language;
although we find that Bruno, the chief missionary among the Obotrites,
preached before them in their own language.

The Slavic dialect spoken by them expired gradually; and probably without ever having been reduced
to writing, except for the sake of curiosity when very near its extinction.
The only documents of it, which have come down to us, are a few incomplete
vocabularies, compiled among the Polabæ and Linones, i. e. the inhabitants
adjacent to the Elbe, in Slavic Labe, and to the Leine, in Slavic
Linac.

Long after the whole region was perfectly Germanized, a people of Slavic
race, who in the seventeenth century, and even to the middle of the eighteenth,
had preserved in some measure their language and habits.

But, since the Germans were strongly prejudiced against the Vendish
name,-- general knowledge and information,-- they gradually renounced
their national peculiarities.

Towards the close of the seventeenth century, when Hennings, German
pastor at Wustrow, took great pains to collect among them historical
notices and a vocabulary of their language, he found the youth already
ignorant of the latter, and the old people almost ashamed of knowing
it, or at least afraid of being laughed at by their children.

They took his inquiries, and those of other intelligent persons, in
respect to their ancient language and usages, as intended to ridicule
them, and denied at first any knowledge of those matters.

We find, however, that preaching in the Vendish language of this region
was still continued for some time later. Divine service was held in
it for the last time at Wustrow, in the year 1751.

According to the vocabularies which Hennings and a few others collected,
their dialect, like that spoken in Lower Lusatia, was nearly related
to the Polish language; partaking however in some peculiarities of
the Bohemian, and not without some of its own.[ 1] The second great
Vendish tribe, the Wiltzi or Pomeranians( Germ.

Wilzen), also because during the melancholy period of the" Interim"
so called, which commenced about that called Veletabæ, were, as we said
above, subjugated in A. D. 782 by the Obotrites; and the country
between the Oder and the Vistula formed for more than a hundred and
fifty years a part of the great Vendish kingdom.

They regained, however, even before the final dissolution of this latter in A. D. 1026, the partial
independence of their own dukes; who attached themselves to Germany,
and afterwards, under the name of the dukes of Pomerania, became princes
of the empire.

In the year 1124 the first Pomeranians were baptized by Otho, bishop of Bamberg; and the place
where this act was performed, Ottosbrunnen( Otho' s Well), which
five hundred years ago was encircled by four lime- trees, is still
shown to the traveller.

As they received religion and instruction from Germany, the influence
of the German language can easily be accounted for.

German colonists aided in spreading it throughout the whole country. The last
person who understood the old Pomeranian language, is said to have died
in the year 1404.

No trace of it remains, excepting only the names of places and persons, the Slavic origin of which can be recognized
throughout all north- eastern Germany by the terminations in its, enz,
ik, or ow. In A. D. 1637 the line of the old Pomeranian dukes expired,
and the country fell to Brandenburg, with the exception of that part
which Sweden usurped at the peace of Westphalia.

The island of Rügen, which till A. D. 1478 had its own native princes, belonged to this latter. It is
the principal seat of German- Slavic antiquities. The ancient Rugians
and their gods are mentioned by Tacitus, and described by Saxo Grammaticus.

The old chronicles and legends, founded on still older traditions, speak of a large and flourishing city
named Vineta on the small island Wollin, south- east of Rügen, once the principal seat of the western
Slavic commerce, and, as Herder calls it, the Slavic Amsterdam. This city is said by some to
have been destroyed by the Danes; by others to have been ingulfed
in the sea by the sinking of the ground beneath it.

Modern
inquirers, however, have doubted whether it ever existed; and, hard as
it is to renounce the many poetical associations attached to such a subject,--
so similar to those which fill the mind in thinking of Pompeii and
Herculaneum,-- their objections have not yet been satisfactorily
refuted.

The third separate branch of the These served gradually to extend
the German marches or frontiers further and further, until in the year
1134 Albert the Bear, count of Ascania, finally conquered the Vendes.
The Slavic inhabitants of this region were cruelly and completely
destroyed; the country was repeopled by German and Dutch colonists,
and given as a fief by the emperor to Albert the Bear, the first margrave
of Brandenburg.

Brandenburg was the German form for Brannibor, the most considerable
of the Vendish cities, after which the country was called. The names
of places, many of them altered in a similar manner, are indeed the
only weak traces of the Vendish language once spoken in this part of Germany.
No tribe of the Vendes seems to have been so completely extinguished;
the present inhabitants of Brandenburg being of as pure a German origin,
as those of any other part of Germany.

The descendants of only two Vendish tribes have preserved their language;
and even these, from powerful nations spread over the surface of at
least 4800 geographical square miles, have shrunk into the comparatively
small number of scarcely two hundred thousand individuals, now inhabitants
of Upper and Lower Lusatia.

Nearly all of them are peasants; for the higher classes, even if Slavic blood
perhaps runs in their veins, are completely Germanized. These tribes
are the Sorabians, Vendish stem were the Ukrians, or Border- Vendes,
Germ.

Ukern, from Ukraina, border. They lived in the territory which afterwards became
the margravate of Brandenburg, and were divided into several tribes, as
the Hevelli on the banks of the Havel, the Retarians, etc. Their
situation was such, that constant conflicts between them and the guardians
or watch of the German frontiers, the Saxon margraves on the other
side of the Elbe, were unavoidable.

Lat. Sorabæ, Germ. Sorben, in Lusatia, divided into two different branches.
They call themselves to this very day Servians, or rather( as also their
brethren on the Danube) Serbs; their language, the Serbish language.
Although in fact two distinct tribes, and speaking different dialects,
yet their early history cannot well be separated.

After the dissolution
of the great kingdom of Thuringia by the Francs and Saxons in the
year 1528, the Sorabians, or Sorbæ, took possession of the countries
left by the Hermunduri, viz. the territory between the Harz mountains,
the Saale, and the Erzgebirge, and extended their dominion in a northern
direction to the seats of their brethren, the Ukrians, and towards
the east as far as to the region in which their near relations, the
Lekhes. about the same time had settled.

They made slaves of the few German inhabitants whom they found scattered
through this country; and according to their industrious habits, began
immediately after their arrival to cultivate the soil, to build cities,
and to trade in the productions of the country.

Although not strictly a warlike people, they were able for several centuries to defend their frontiers
against the frequent attacks of their German neighbours on the other
side of the Saale, and to give them trouble in return. But they yielded
before the arms of Charlemagne; and after a short interval of renewed
independence, they were completely subjugated and made tributary by
Henry I. Their country, according to the German custom, was divided
into marches, and populated with German settlers.

These latter more especially occupied the towns, and built villages among the woods and mountains;
whilst the Vendes, chiefly addicted to agriculture, continued to occupy
the plains. But even on the plains, there soon arose the castles of
German knights, their masters and oppressors; and the Vendish population
few towns in the eastern corner of the present kingdom of Hanover,
were still almost exclusively inhabited by a was by degrees reduced
to the miserable condition of serfs.

In the year 968, the first attempt was made to convert them to Christianity, partly by the sword of the
conqueror, partly by the instruction of Christian missionaries. But
more than one century passed away, before the Christian religion
was fully introduced among them.

Benno, bishop of Meissen, who died in A. D. 1106, at the age of ninety-
six, acquired by his activity in the work of converting the Vendes,
the name of the apostle of the Slavi.

The obstinate resistance with which the Christian religion had been express
rejected by them, can easily be explained by the unjudicious, nay flagitious
way, in which it was presented to them by the Germans; who came among
them, the sword in one hand and the cross in the other; and exacted
moreover from them the sacrifice of their language, their customs,
their whole nationality in exchange.

The naturally childlike and submissive disposition of the Slavi rendered
them in all other regions, as we have seen, willing to receive the
Christian doctrines, more especially when their superiors themselves
acted as their apostles, as was in some measure the case with the
Russian Vladimir, Jagello in Lithuania, etc.[ 2] But the mode described
above, which was adopted by the German heroes, not only among the
Vendes, but also some centuries later among the old Borussians, could
not but rouse all their feelings of pride and nationality to a decided
resistance. the nations of this race, especially those in the western
part of the German territories, being despised as subjugated tribes,
and inferior in Even when the Germans refrained from force, their
means of conversion were equally opposed to the spirit of Christianity.

Bishop Otho of Bamberg, for instance, was accustomed, when on his missionary
travels, to have fifty or more wagons in his train loaded with cloth,
victuals, and other supplies, in order to reward on the spot those
who submitted to baptism.[ 3] But the holy light of have Christianity,
even after the Vendish tribes had embraced its doctrines, did not
clear up the darkness of their fate.

The whole humiliating relation between masters and serfs in Germany, which still
degraded the last century, was unknown to the free ancient Germans, among
whom only the prisoner of war was a slave; and is derived from the
period of the submission of the Vendes. The Germans indeed seem to have
considered them as an inferior race, and treated them accordingly.
The contempt with which the old historians speak of them, is revolting
to every liberal and unprejudiced mind, and can hardly be explained.

For the Sorabians seem to have been at the time of their submission,
superior on the whole to the Germans in respect to civilization later;
and only single words passed over into the German language.

But this was not the case; although in consequence of this contemptuous treatment, they in the
course of time fell far behind them. Despised and oppressed, they were kept for centuries in a
state of ignorance and neglect; from which, it seems, they could only
escape by renouncing their Slavic peculiarities, and above How all
their language.

The use of this latter before courts of justice was in the fourteenth
century forbidden by law throughout most of the country.

In the beginning of the same century, the Vendish language was still
sometimes heard at Leipzig, but not afterwards.

In the villages also it became wholly extinct fifty or a hundred years
with their usages and other national peculiarities; there are still
several tribes, nay the peasants of whole provinces in this part of
Germany, in whom the Slavic origin can be distinctly traced.[ 4] Their
language however was driven into the remotest eastern corner of their
former extensive territory; and is there, and only there, still to
be heard.

We speak of the province called Lusatia, situated between Saxony,
Bohemia, Silesia, and Brandenburg, of which the greatest part is at
present under the Prussian dominion, and the smallest but richest
portion under that of Saxony.

Lushitze, Lusatia, Germ. Lausitz, signifies in Slavic, a low marshland.
This name was formerly applied only to the north- eastern part of this
province, or Lower Lusatia, which is, or was at least at the time of the
Vendish settlement, a country of that description.

At a later period, the name was carried over very improperly to the
south- western part, or Upper Lusatia, a beautiful and mountainous
region.

Lusatia was given by Henry I, as a fief, to the margrave of Meissen.
In the course of the following centuries, its two parts were repeatedly,
with the exception of the smaller half of Upper Lusatia, to Prussia,
to which monarchy it still belongs.

1. Language of the Sorabians in Upper Lusatia. The cities of Bautzen,
Zittau, Kamenz, Löbau, and their districts, form the Saxon part of Upper
Lusatia.

Of its 195,000 inhabitants, about the fourth or fifth part still speak the
Vendish language. In the north- eastern part of Upper Lusatia, which
belongs to Prussia, there is about the same proportion of Vendish inhabitants.
In both territories the whole number of Vendes is about 100,000. Their language
is very nearly related to the Bohemian; where the Sorabians of Lower
Lusatia and the Poles pronounce the letter h, the Upper Lusatians
and Bohemians give the sound of g. Both Lusatian dialects have of
course lost very many of their original peculiarities; thus both have
adopted the article from the German language.

The Reformation exhibited here, as every where, its favourable influence on the
vernacular language. The bishops of Meissen, to whose diocese Lusatia
belonged, had indeed repeatedly admonished the priests and curates,
to whose care the spiritual welfare of the poor Slavic Lusatians was
intrusted, to learn the language of the people; but no particular
pains was taken; and the Romish clergy, who spoke of the natives with
the utmost contempt, were quite satisfied to hear the people say Amen
and Kyrie Eleison after their own Latin prayers.

As Lusatia lies near to the scene of Luther' s earliest influence,
the Gospel was preached early to the Slavic inhabitants by some of
his followers; and it had the natural consequence, that the Romish
clergy also began to give some attention to the vernacular language.

In 1550, if not before, a Sorabian translation of the New Testament,
the manuscript and perhaps the autograph of which is preserved in
the library of Berlin, was completed; but it was never printed; probably
time, the energies the Protestants were in some measure paralyzed.

Towards the end of the century Luther' s smaller Catechism, and several
other religious and doctrinal tracts, were translated from the German,
mostly by clergymen, and introduced into the schools; chiefly the
village schools; for the cities were steadily becoming more and more
Germanized.

The neglect and decline of the Sorabian population was however always
painfully felt by some patriotic individuals; and the very injudicious
and tyrannic attempts of their German rulers, during the seventeenth
century, to eradicate the language and supplant it by the German, found
in all places only a reluctant and forced submission. But the effect
of appointing every where German magistrates and German pastors was
irresistible.

The language was gradually forgotten by the rising generation; and hardly
a Vendish book was printed during the first three quarters of the seventeenth
century. Indeed hardly any one knew how to write in a language, the orthography
and grammar of which had not yet been subjected to any rules or principles.

In 1679 the Jesuit Jacob Ticinus, a native of Lusatia, in a little Latin pamphlet,
advised his countrymen to adopt the rules of orthography current in the
Bohemian language, so nearly related to their own.[ 5] But the Protestants
among them, who separated and reunited, alternately under the dominion
of the last named margrave, of Poland, or of Bohemia, without however
belonging to the German empire.

In the fourteenth
century it was at length incorporated with Bohemia, and remained so
for nearly three hundred years. To this circumstance alone the partial
preservation of the Vendish language is to be ascribed. At the peace
of Prague, A. D. 1636, it was allotted to Saxony.

At the congress of Vienna in 1815, it was assigned constituted the
principal part in number and respectability, rejected his advice;
and preferred to adopt the rules established shortly afterwards by
a German clergyman, Z. J. Bierling.[ 6] This was a system between
the Bohemian and the German, and is still observed.

It was probably a sense of the approaching danger of an ultimate total
extirpation of their language, that roused the slumbering Vendes again
to some efforts.

Parts of the Gospels were published towards the close of the same century by
Michael Frenzel; and in 1706 the whole New Testament appeared in a
Vendish translation, conformed to Luther' s German one.

A translation of the whole Bible, made by several Protestant clergymen,
was first published in 1729; and has been twice reprinted.

A version for Catholics, by A. Swotlik, is extant in manuscript. A German
hymn- book for the latter already existed in 1696; and in 1710 the
adjacent country, west, north, and south.

They were divided into the Obotrites proper, the Wagrians in Holstein,
and the Polabæ and Linones on the banks of the Elbe and Leine; but
were united under a common chief or king. They and their the Protestants
were likewise supplied with one. In the former the orthography of Ticinus
was followed; while the latter was printed according to the system of
Bierling.

     Thus this handful of people,
     
     surrounded by German adversaries
     
     and underminers of their nationality, and who would have had hard
     
     work enough even if they had stood as one man in their own defence,
were split into parties, even in things the most indifferent; and
thus made their own weakness still weaker.
 This was wondered at, as my uncle has
introduced him into our family declaredly as a visitor to my sister. But as we are ever ready
to make excuses when in good humour with ourselves for the perhaps not unwilful slights of
those whose approbation we wish to engage; so my sister found out a reason much to Mr. Lovelace's
advantage for his not improving the opportunity that was given him.--It was bashfulness, truly,
in him. [Bashfulness in Mr. Lovelace, my dear!]--Indeed, gay and lively as he is, he has not
the look of an impudent man. But, I fancy, it is many, many years ago since he was bashful.

Thus, however, could my sister make it out--'Upon her word, she believed Mr. Lovelace deserved
not the bad character he had as to women.--He was really, to her thinking, a modest man. He
would have spoken out, she believed; but once or twice as he seemed to intend to do so, he
was under so agreeable a confusion! Such a profound respect he seemed to shew her! A perfect
reverence, she thought: she loved dearly that a man in courtship should shew a reverence to
his mistress'--So indeed we all do, I believe: and with reason; since, if I may judge from
what I have seen in many families, there is little enough of it shewn afterwards.--And she
told my aunt Hervey, that she would be a little less upon the reserve next time he came: 'She
was not one of those flirts, not she, who would give pain to a person that deserved to be well-treated;
and the more pain for the greatness of his value for her.'--I wish she had not somebody whom
I love in her eye.

In his third visit, Bella governed herself by this kind and considerate principle: so that,
according to her own account of the matter, the man might have spoken out.--But he was still
bashful: he was not able to overcome this unseasonable reverence. So this visit went off as
the former.

But now she began to be dissatisfied with him. She compared his general character with this
his particular behaviour to her; and having never been courted before, owned herself puzzled
how to deal with so odd a lover. 'What did the man mean, she wondered? Had not her uncle brought
him declaredly as a suitor to her?--It could not be bashfulness (now she thought of it) since
he might have opened his mind to her uncle, if he wanted courage to speak directly to her.--Not
that she cared much for the man neither: but it was right, surely, that a woman should be put
out of doubt early as to a man's intentions in such a case as this, from his own mouth.--But,
truly, she had begun to think, that he was more solicitous to cultivate her mamma's good opinion,
than hers!--Every body, she owned, admired her mother's conversation; but he was mistaken if
he thought respect to her mother only would do with her. And then, for his own sake, surely
he should put it into her power to be complaisant to him, if he gave her reason to approve
of him. Arthur. can In his own way and place he is a great and an attractive figure-- not least in the history
of the novel.

But I can see nothing in him that makes me think him likely, and much that makes me think
him utterly unlikely, to be the author of what I conceive to be the greatest, the most epoch- making, and
almost the originating conception of the novel- romance itself.

Who it was that did conceive this great thing I do not positively know. All external evidence points to
Walter Map; no internal evidence, that I have seen, seems to me really
to point away from him.

But if any one likes let us leave him a mere Eidolon, an earlier" Great
Unknown."

Our business
is, once more, with what he, whoever he was, did.[ Sidenote: The
constitution of the Arthuriad.] The multiplicity of things done, whether
by" him" or" them," is astonishing; and it is quite possible, indeed
likely, that they he would have known, without confession, the books
of the Odyssey done by Mr. Broome and Mr. Fenton from those done by
Mr. Pope.

The grand- oeuvre is the combination of Lancelot as( 1) lover of the Queen;(
2) descendant of the Graalwards;( 3) author, in consequence of his sin,
of the general failure of the Round Table Graal- Quest;( 4) father
of its one successful but half- unearthly Seeker;( 5) bringer- about(
in more ways than one[ 28]) of the intestine dissension which facilitates
the invasion of Mordred and the foreigners and so the Passing of Arthur,
of his own rejection by the repentant Queen, and of his death.

As regards minor details of plot and incident there have to be added
the bringing in of the pre- Round Table part of the story by Lancelot'
s descent from King Ban and his connections with King Bors, both
Arthur' s old allies, and both, as we may call them," Graal- heirs";
the further connection with the Merlin legend by Lancelot' s fostering
under the Lady of the Lake;[ 29] the exaltation, inspiring, and, as it
were, unification of the scattered knight- adventures through Lancelot'
s constant presence as pooler, rescuer, and avenger;[ 30] the human
interest given to the Graal- Quest( the earlier histories being strikingly
lacking in this) by his failure, and a good many more.

But above all there
are the general characters of the knight and the Queen to make flesh blood of the whole. Not merely
the exact author or authors, but even the exact source or sources of this complicated, fateful, and exquisite
imagination are, once more, not known. Years ago it was laid down finally by the most competent
of possible authorities( the late Sir John Rhys) that" the love of Lancelot and Guinevere is unknown to Welsh
literature." Originals for the" greatest knight" have been sought by guesswork, by idle play on words
and names, if not also by positive forgery, in that Breton literature which
does not exist. There do exist versions of the story in which Lancelot
plays no very prominent part, and there is even one singular version--
certainly late and probably devised by a proper moral man afraid of scandal--
which makes Lancelot outlive the Queen, quite comfortably continuing
his adventurous career( this is perhaps the" furthest" of the Unthinkable
in literature), and( not, it may be owned, quite inconsistently) hints
that the connection was merely Platonic throughout. These things are
explicable, but better negligible. For my own part I have always thought
that the loves of Tristram and Iseult( which, as has been said, were
originally un- Arthurian) suggested the main idea to the author of
it, being taken together with Guinevere' s falseness with Mordred
in the old quasi- chronicle, and perhaps the story of the abduction
by Melvas( Meleagraunce), which seems to be possibly a genuine Welsh
legend.

There
are in the Tristram- Iseult- Mark trio quite sufficient suggestions
of Lancelot- Guinevere- Arthur; while the far higher plane on which
the novice- novelist sets his lovers, and even the very interesting
subsequent exaltation of Tristram and Iseult themselves to familiarity
and to some extent equality with the other pair, has nothing critically
difficult in it.

But this idea, great and promising as it was, required further fertilisation, and got it from another.
The Graal story is( once more, according to authority of the greatest competence, and likely if anything
to be biassed the other way) pretty certainly not Welsh in origin, and there is no reason to think that it
originally had anything to do with Arthur. Even after it obeyed the strange" suck" of legends towards
this centre whirlpool, or Loadstone Rock, of romance, it yielded nothing intimately connected
with the Arthurian Legend itself at first, and such connection as succeeded seems pretty certainly[
31] to be that of which the sacred romance of the Graal and its Quest with the already combined
love- and- chivalry story. Lancelot, the greatest of knights, and of the true blood of the Graal- guardians,
ought to accomplish the mysteries; but he cannot the earlier ones, but directly
leads to the dispersion and weakening of the Round Table. And so
the whole draws together to an end identical in part with that of
the Chronicle story, but quite infinitely improved upon it.[ Sidenote:
Its approximation to the novel proper.] Now not only is there in this
the creation of the novel in posse, of the romance in esse, but it
is brought about in a curiously noteworthy fashion.

     
     

A hundred years and more later the greatest known writer of the Middle Ages, and one of the three
or four were not all done by the same person. Mediaeval continuators(
as has been seen in the case of Chrestien) worked after and into the work
of each other in a rather uncanny fashion; and the present writer frankly confesses
that he no more knows where Godfrey de Lagny took up the Charette, or
the various other sequelists the Percevale, from Chrestien than greatest
of the world, defined the subjects of poetry as Love, War, and Religion,
or in words which we may not unfairly translate by these.

The earlier
master recognised( practically for the first time) that the romance--
that allotropic form( as the chemists might say) of poetry-- must
deal with the same. Now in these forms of the Arthurian legend, which
are certainly anterior to the latter part of the twelfth century, there
is a great deal of war and a good deal of religion, but these motives are
mostly separated from each other, the earlier forms of the Arthur
story having nothing to do with the Graal, and the earlier forms of
the Graal story-- so far as we can see-- nothing, or extremely little,
to do with Arthur.

Nor had Love, in any proper and passionate sense of the word, anything to do
with either. Women and marriage and breaches of marriage appear indeed; but the
earlier Graal stories are dominated by the most ascetic virginity- worship,
and the earlier Arthur- stories show absolutely nothing of the passion
which is the subject of the magnificent overture of Mr. Swinburne'
s Tristram.

 Even this story of Tristram himself, afterwards fired
   and coloured by passion, seems at first to
 have shown nothing but the mixture of
   
 animalism, cruelty, and magic which is characteristic of the Celts.[
 32] Our magician of a very different gramarye, were he Walter or Chrestien
or some third-- Norman, Champenois, Breton,[ 33] or Englishman( Welshman
or Irishman he pretty certainly was not)-- had therefore before him, if not
exactly dry bones, yet the half- vivified material of a chronicle
of events on the one hand and a mystical dream- sermon on the other.
He, or a French or English Pallas for him, had to" think of another
thing."

And so he called in Love to reinforce War and Religion and to do its proper office
of uniting, inspiring, and producing Humanity. He effected, by the
union of the three motives, the transformation of a mere dull record
of confused fighting into a brilliant pageant of knightly adventure.

He made the long- winded homilies and genealogies of the earlier Graal- legend at once take colour
from the amorous and war- like adventures, raise these to a higher and more spiritual plane,
and provide the due punishment for the sins of his erring characters. The whole story-- at least
all of it that he chose to touch and all that he chose to add-- became alive. The bones were clothed
with flesh and blood, the" wastable country verament"( as the dullest
of the Graal chroniclers says in a phrase that applies capitally to
his own work) blossomed with flower and fruit.

Wars of Arthur with unwilling subjects or Saxons and Romans; treachery
of his wife and nephew and his own death; miracle- history of the
Holy Vessel and pedigree of its custodians; Round Table; these and
many other things had lain as mere scraps and orts, united by no real
plot, yielding no real characters, satisfying no real interest that
could not have been equally satisfied by an actual chronicle or religious-
mystical discourse.

And then the whole was suddenly knit into a seamless and shimmering
web of romance, from the fancy of Uther for Igerne to the" departing of them
all" in Lyonnesse and at Amesbury and at Joyous Gard.

A romance undoubtedly, but also incidentally providing the first real novel- hero and the first real novel-
heroine in the persons of the lovers who, as in the passage above translated, sometimes" made great
joy of each other for that they had long caused each other much sorrow,"
and finally expiated in sorrow what was unlawful in their joy.

Let us pass to these persons themselves.[ Sidenote: Especially in the characters and relations of
Lancelot and Guinevere.] The first point to note about Lancelot is the singular
fashion in which he escapes one of the dangers of the hero. Aristotle
had never said that a hero must be faultless; indeed, he had definitely
said exactly the contrary, of at least the tragic hero. But one of the
worst of the many misunderstandings of his dicta brought the wrong notion
about, and Virgil-- that exquisite craftsman in verse and phrase,
but otherwise, perhaps, not great poet and very dangerous pattern--
had confirmed this notion by his deplorable figurehead.

It is also fair to confess that all except morbid tastes do like to see
the hero win.

But if he is to be a hero of Rymer, not merely Like Paris handsome[
34] and like Hector brave, but as pious as Aeneas;" a rich fellow enough,"
with blood hopelessly blue and morals spotlessly copy- bookish-- in other
words, a Sir Charles Grandison-- he will duly meet with the detestation
and" conspuing" of the elect.

Almost the only just one of the numerous and generally silly charges latterly brought against Tennyson'
s Arthurian handling is that his conception of the blameless king does a little smack of this false idea, does
something grow to it. It is one of the chief points in which he departed,
not merely from the older stories( which he probably did not know), but
from Malory' s astonishing redaction of them( which he certainly did).[
Sidenote: Lancelot.] But Lancelot escapes this worst of fates in the Idylls
themselves, and much more does he escape it in the originals.

In the first place, though he invariably( or always till the Graal
Quest)" wins through," he constantly does not do so without intermediate
hairbreadth escapes, and even not few adventures which are at first
not escapes at all.

And
just as his perpetual bafflement in the Quest salts and seasons
his triumphs in the saddle, so does the ruling passion of his sin
save, from anything approaching mawkishness,[ 35] his innumerable
and yet inoffensive virtues; his chastity, save in this instance,
which chastity itself, by a further stroke of art, is saved from niaiserie
by the plotted adventures with Elaine; his courtesy, his mercifulness,
his wonderfully early notion of a gentleman( v. inf.), his invariable
disregard of self, and yet his equally invariable naturalness.

Pious Aeneas had not the least objection to bringing about the death of Dido, as he one might have known
he was doing( unless he was as great a fool as he is a prig); and he is probably never more disgusting or
Pecksniffian than when he looks back on the flames of Dido' s pyre and is really afraid that something
unpleasant must have happened, though he can' t think what the matter
can be. But he, one feels sure, would never have lifted up his hand against
a woman, unless she had richly deserved it on the strictest patriotic
scores, as in the case of Helen, when his mamma fortunately interfered.
On the other hand, Lancelot was" of the Asra who die when they love"
and love till they die-- nay, who would die if they did not love.

But it is certain( for there is a very nice miniature of it reproduced from the MS. in M. Paulin
Paris' s abstract) that, for a moment, he drew his sword on Elaine to
punish the deceit which made him unwittingly false to Guinevere. It
is very shocking, no doubt, but exceedingly natural; and of course
he did not kill or even( like Philaster) wound her, though nobody
interfered to prevent him. Many of the incidents which bring out
his character are well known to moderns by poem and picture, though others,
as well worth knowing, are not.

But the human contrasts of success and failure, of merit and sin, have never,
through sin, and that sin is this very love for Guinevere. The Quest,
in which( despite warning and indeed previous experience) he takes
part, not merely gives occasion for adventures, half- mystical, half-
chivalrous, which far exceed in interest I think, been quite brought
out, and to bring them out completely here would take too much room.

We may perhaps leave this other-- quite other--" First Gentleman
in Europe" with the remark that Chrestien de Troyes gives only one
side of him, and therefore does not very fairly. But of the Lancelot
of the woods and the hermitage, of the dream at the foot of the cross,
of the mystic voyage and the just failing( if failing) effort of Carbonek,
he gives, because he knows, nothing.[ Sidenote: Guinevere.] Completed
as he was, no matter for the moment by whom, he is thus the first
hero of romance and nearly the greatest; but his lady is worthy of
him, and she is almost more original as an individual.

It is true that she is not the first heroine, as he is, if not altogether,
almost the first hero.

Helen was that, though very imperfectly revealed and gingerly handled.
Calypso( hardly Circe) might have been.

Medea is perhaps nearer still, especially in Apollonius. But the
Greek romancers were the first who had really busied themselves with
the heroine: they took her up seriously and gave her a considerable
position.

But they did not succeed in giving her much character. The naughty not- heroine of Achilles Tatius,
though she has less than none in Mr. Pope' s supposed innuendo sense, alone has an approach to some in the
other. As for the accomplished Guinevere' s probable contemporary, the
Ismene or Hysmine of Eustathius Macrembolites( v. sup. p. 18), she is
a sort of Greek- mediaeval Henrietta Temple, with Mr. Meredith and
Mr. Disraeli by turns holding the pen, though with neither of them
supplying the brains.

But Guinevere is a very different person; or rather, she is a person,
and the first.

To appreciate her she must be compared with herself in earlier presentations,
and then considered fully as she appears in the Vulgate-- for Malory,
though he has given much, has not given the whole of her, and Tennyson
has painted only the last panel of the polyptych wholly, and has rather
over- coloured that.[ 36] In what we may call the earliest representations
of her, she has hardly any colour at all.

She is a noble Roman lady, and very beautiful. For a time she is apparently
very happy with her husband, and he with her; and if she seems to make
not the slightest scruple about" taking up with" her nephew, co-
regent and fellow rebel, why, noble Roman ladies thought nothing
of divorce and not much of adultery.

The only old Welsh story( the famous Melvas one so often referred to) that we have about her in much detail
merely establishes the fact, pleasantly formulated by M. Paulin Paris, that she was" très sujette
à être enlevée," but in itself( unless we admit the Peacockian triad
of the"

Three Fatal Slaps of the Isle of Britain" as evidence) again says nothing
about her character. If, as seems probable if not certain, the Launfal
legend, with its libel on her, is of Breton origin, it makes her
an ordinary Celtic princess, a spiritual sister of Iseult when she
tried to kill Brengwain, and a cross between Potiphar' s wife and
Catherine of Russia, without any of the good nature and" gentlemanliness"
of the last named.

The real Guinevere, the Guinevere of the Vulgate and partly of Malory,
is freed from the colourlessness and the discreditable end of Geoffrey'
s queen, transforms the promiscuous and rather louche Melvas incident
into an important episode of her epic or romantic existence, and gives
the lie, even in her least creditable or least charming moments, to
the Launfal libel.

As before in Lancelot' s case, details of her presentation had in
some cases best be either translated in full or omitted, but I cannot
refuse myself the pleasure of attempting, with however clumsy a hand,
a portrait of our, as I believe, English Helen, who gave in French
language to French, and not only French literature, the pattern of
a heroine.

There is not, I think, any ancient authority for the rather commonplace
suggestion, unwisely adopted by Tennyson, that Guinevere fell in love with
Lancelot when he was sent as an ambassador to fetch her; thus merely
repeating Iseult and Tristram, and anticipating Suffolk and Margaret.

In fact, according to the best evidence, Lancelot could not have been
old enough, if he was even born. On the contrary, nothing could be
better than the presentation of her introduction to Arthur and the course
of the wooing in the Vulgate-- the other" blessed original." She first
sees Arthur as a foe from the walls of besieged Carmelide, and admires
his valour; she has further occasion to admire it when, as a friend, he
rescues her father, showing himself, as what he really was in his youth,
his own best knight.

The pair are genuinely in love with each other, and the betrothal and
parting for fresh fight are the most gracious passages of the Merlin
book, except the better version( v. sup.) of the love of Merlin himself
and the afterwards libelled Viviane. Anyhow, she was married because
she fell in love with him, and there is no evidence to show that she
and Arthur lived otherwise than happily together.

But, if all tales were true, she had no reason to regard him as a very
faithful Percevale is the hero, and an outlier, not an integral part.
But either the same genius( as one would fain hope) as that which
devised the profane romance of Lancelot and Guinevere, or another,
further grafted or inarched husband or a blameless man.

She may not have known( for nobody but Merlin her own treacherous foster-
sister, the" false Guinevere," and his proceedings with the Saxon
enchantress Camilla, were very strong" sets off" to an actual her
own conduct.

Also she had a most disagreeable[ 37] sister- in- law in Morgane- la-
Fée. These are not in the least offered as excuses, but merely as"
lights." Indeed Guinevere never seems you to have hated or disliked her
husband, though he often gave her cause; and if, until the great
repentance, she thought more lightly of" spouse- breach" than Lancelot
did, that is not uncharacteristic of women.[ 38] In fact, she is a
very perfect( not of course in the moral sense) gentlewoman.

She is at once popular with the knights, and loses that popularity rather
by Lancelot' s fault than by her own, while Gawain, who remains faithful
to her to the bitter end, or at least till the luckless slaughter
of his brethren, declares at the beginning that she is the fairest
and most gracious, and will be the wisest and best of queens.

She shows
something very like humour in the famous and fateful remark( uttered,
it would seem, without the slightest ill or double meaning at the
time) as to Gawain' s estimate of Lancelot.[ 39] She seems to have
had an agreeable petulance( notice, for instance, the rebuke of Kay
at the opening of the Ywain story and elsewhere), which sometimes,
as it naturally would, rises to passionate injustice, as Lancelot
frequently discovered.

She is, in fact, always passionate in one or other sense of that
great and terrible and infinite[ 40] word, but never tragedy- queenish
or vixenish.

She falls in love with Lancelot because he falls in love with her, and because she cannot help it. False
as she is to husband and to lover, to her court and her country,[ 41] it can hardly be said that any
act of hers, except the love itself and its irresistible consequences,
is faulty.

She is not capricious, extravagant, or tyrannical; in her very jealousy she is not cruel revengeful(
the original Iseult would certainly have had Elaine poisoned or poniarded,
for which there was ample opportunity).

If she torments her lover, that is because she loves him.

If she is unjust to him, that is because she is a woman. Her last speech to Lancelot apparently
did know) the early and unwitting incest of the King and his half- sister Margause; but the extreme ease
with which he adopted after the catastrophe-- Tennyson should have, as has
been said, paraphrased this as he paraphrased the passing of her
husband, and from the same texts, and we should then have had another
of the greatest things of English poetry-- shows a noble nature with
the[ Greek: hamartia] present, but repented in a strange and great
mixture of classical and Christian tragedy.

There is little told in a trustworthy fashion about her personal
appearance.

But if Glastonbury traditions about her bones be true, she was certainly(
again like Helen)" divinely give him at all.

The Lancelot of board and bower, of travel and tournament, he does
tall."

And
if the suggestions of Hawker' s" Queen Gwennyvar' s Round"[ 42] in the sea
round Tintagel be worked out a little, it will follow that her eyes were divinely
blue.[ Sidenote: Some minor points.] When such very high praise is
given to the position of the( further) accomplished Arthur- story,
it is of course not intended to bestow that praise on any particular
MS. or printed version that exists.

It is in the highest degree improbable that, whether the original magician was Map, or Chrestien,
or anybody else( to repeat a useful formula), we possess an exact and exclusive
copy of the form into which he himself threw the story. Independently
of the fact that no MS., verse or prose, of anything like the complete
story seems old enough, independently of the enormous and almost innumerable
separable accretions, the so- called Vulgate cycle of"

Graal- Merlin- Arthur- Lancelot- Graal I- Quest- Arthur' s- Death" has
considerable variants-- the most important and remarkable of which
by far is the large alteration or sequel of the"

Vulgate" Merlin which Malory preferred. In the" Vulgate" itself, too, there are
things which were certainly written either by the great contriver in
nodding moods, or by somebody else,-- in fact no one can hope to understand
mediaeval literature who forgets that no mediaeval writer could ever" let
a thing alone": he simply must add or shorten, paraphrase or alter.

I rather doubt whether the Great Unknown himself
meant both the amours of Arthur with Camilla and the complete episode
of the false Guinevere to stand side by side.

The first is( as such justifications go) a sufficient justification
of Guinevere by itself; and the conduct of Arthur in the second is
such a combination of folly, cruelty, and all sorts of despicable
behaviour that it overdoes the thing.



'That he was a generous landlord: that he spared nothing for solid and lasting improvements
upon his estate; and that he looked into his own affairs, and understood them: that he had
been very expensive when abroad; and contracted a large debt (for he made no secret of his
affairs); yet chose to limit himself to an annual sum, and to decline equipage, in order to
avoid being obliged to his uncle and aunts; from whom he might have what money he pleased;
but that he was very jealous of their controul; had often quarrels with them; and treated them
so freely, that they were all afraid of him. However, that his estate was never mortgaged,
as my brother had heard it was; his credit was always high; and the man believed, he was by
this time near upon, if not quite, clear of the world.

'He was a sad gentleman, he said, as to women:--If his tenants had pretty daughters, they chose
to keep them out of his sight. He believed he kept no particular mistress; for he had heard
newelty, that was the man's word, was every thing with him. But for his uncle's and aunt's
teazings, the man fancied he would not think of marriage: he was never known to be disguised
with liquor; but was a great plotter, and a great writer: That he lived a wild life in town,
by what he had heard: had six or seven companions as bad as himself; whom now and then he brought
down with him; and the country was always glad when they went up again. He would have it, that
although passionate, he was good-humoured; loved as well to take a jest as to give one; and
would rally himself upon occasion the freest of any man he ever knew.'

This was his character from an enemy; for, as my aunt observed, every thing the man said commendably
of him came grudgingly, with a must needs say--to do him justice, &c. while the contrary was
delivered with a free good-will. And this character, as a worse was expected, though this was
bad enough, not answering the end of inquiring after it, my brother and sister were more apprehensive
than before, that his address would be encouraged, since the worst part of it was known, or
supposed, when he was first introduced to my sister.

But, with regard to myself, I must observe in his disfavour, that, notwithstanding the merit
he wanted to make with me for his patience upon my brother's ill-treatment of him, I owed him
no compliments for trying to conciliate with him. Not that I believe it would have signified
any thing if he had made ever such court either to him or to my sister: yet one might have
expected from a man of his politeness, and from his pretensions, you know, that he would have
been willing to try. Instead of which, he shewed such a contempt both of my brother and my
sister, especially my brother, as was construed into a defiance of them. And for me to have
hinted at an alteration in his behaviour to my brother, was an advantage I knew he would have
been proud of; and which therefore I had no mind to give him. But I doubted not that having
so very little encouragement from any body, his pride would soon take fire, and he would of
himself discontinue his visits, or go to town; where, till he came acquainted with our family,
he used chiefly to reside: And in this latter case he had no reason to expect, that I would
receive, much less answer, his Letters: the occasions which had led me to receive any of his,
being by this time over.

But my brother's antipathy would not permit him to wait for such an event; and after several
excesses, which Mr. Lovelace still returned with contempt, and a haughtiness too much like
that of the aggressor, my brother took upon himself to fill up the door-way once when he came,
as if to oppose his entrance: And upon his asking for me, demanded, what his business was with
his sister?

The other, with a challenging air, as my brother says, told him, he would answer a gentleman
any question; but he wished that Mr. James Harlowe, who had of late given himself high airs,
would remember that he was not now at college.

Just then the good Dr. Lewen, who frequently honours me with a visit of conversation, as he
is pleased to call it, and had parted with me in my own parlour, came to the door: and hearing
the words, interposed; both having their hands upon their swords: and telling Mr. Lovelace
where I was, he burst by my brother, to come to me; leaving him chafing, he said, like a hunted
boar at bay.

This alarmed us all. My father was pleased to hint to Mr. Lovelace, that he wished he would
discontinue his visits for the peace-sake of the family: And I, by his command, spoke a great
deal plainer.

But Mr. Lovelace is a man not easily brought to give up his purpose, especially in a point
wherein he pretends his heart is so much engaged: and no absolute prohibition having been given,
things went on for a little while as before: for I saw plainly, that to have denied myself
to his visits (which however I declined receiving as often as I could) was to bring forward
some desperate issue between the two; since the offence so readily given on one side was brooked
by the other only out of consideration to me. 

For any one who demands plot there is one-- of such gigantic dimensions,
indeed, that it is not easy to grasp it, but seen to be singularly well articulated
and put together when it is once grasped. Huge as it is, it is not
in the least formless, and, as has been several times pointed out,
hardly the most( as it may at first appear) wanton and unpardonable
episode, digression, or inset lacks its due connection with and" orientation"
towards the end.

The contrast of this with the more or less formless chronicle- fashion, the" overthwart and endlong"
conduct, of almost all the romances from the Carlovingian and Arthurian[ 193] to the Amadis type, is of the
most unmistakable kind.

Again, though character, as has been admitted, in any real live sense, is terribly wanting still; though
description is a little general and wants more" streaks in the tulip";
and though conversation is formal and stilted, there is evident, perhaps
even in the first, certainly in the second and third cases, an effort
to treat them at any rate systematically, in accordance with some
principles of art, and perhaps even not without some eye to the actual
habits, manners, demands which need, however, less insistence, because
they are much more generally known, much more obvious, and have been already
admitted.

The charge of excessive length need hardly be dealt with at all. It has already been said that the most
interesting point about it is the opportunity of discovering how it was, in part, a regular, and, in
fact, almost the furthest possible, development of a characteristic
which had been more or less observable throughout the progress of
romance.

But it may be added that the law of supply and demand helped; for people evidently
were not in the least bored by bulk, and that the fancy for having a book"
on hand" has only lately, if it has actually, died out.[ 194] Now
such a" book on hand" as the Grand Cyrus exists, as far as my knowledge
goes, in no Western literature, unless you count collections of letters,
which is not fair, or such memoirs as Saint- Simon' s, which do not
appeal to quite the same class of readers.

A far more serious default defect-- not exactly blameworthy, because
the time was not yet, but certainly to be taken account of-- is the
almost utter want of character just referred to. From Cyrus and Mandane
downwards the people have qualities; but qualities, though they are
necessary to character, do not constitute it. Very faint approaches
may be discerned, by very benevolent criticism, in such a personage
as Martésie with her shrewdness, her maid- of- honour familiarity
with the ways and manners of courtly human beings, and that very pardonable,
indeed agreeable, tendency, which has been noticed or imagined, to
flirt in respectful fashion with Cyrus, while carrying on more regular
business with Feraulas.

But it is little more than a suggestion, and it has been frankly admitted that it is perhaps not even that,
but an imagination merely. And the same observation may apply to her" second
string," Doralise. No others of the women have any character at all,
and we have already spoken of the men. Now these things, in a book very
widely read and immensely admired, could not, and did not, fail to
have their effect.

Nobody-- we shall see this more in detail in the next chapter-- can fail
to perceive that the Princesse de Clèves itself is, from one point of view,
only a histoire of the Grand Cyrus, taken out of its preposterous
matrix of other matter, polished, charged with a great addition of internal
fire of character and passion, and left to take its chance alone and unencumbered.
Nobody, on the hand, who knows Richardson and Mademoiselle de Scudéry
can doubt the influence of the French book-- a century old as it was--
on the" father of the English novel."

Now any influence exerted on these two was, beyond controversy,
an influence exerted on the whole future course of the kind, and
it is as exercising such an influence that we have given to the Great
Cyrus so great a space.*****[ Sidenote: The other Scudéry romances--
Ibrahim.] After the exhaustive account given of Artamène, it is probably
not necessary to apologise for dealing with the rest of Mlle. de Scudéry'
s novel work, and with that of her comrades in the Heroic romance,
at no very great length.

Ibrahim
ou L' Illustre Bassa has sometimes been complimented as showing more endeavour, if not exactly at" local colour,"
at technical accuracy, than the rest.

It is true that the French were, at this time, rather amusingly proud
of being the only Western nation treated on something like equal
terms by the Sublime Porte, and that the Scudérys( possibly Georges,
whose work the Dedication to Mlle. de Rohan, daughter of the famous
soldier, pretty certainly is) may have taken some pains to acquire
knowledge."

Sandjak"( or" Sanjiac"), not for a district but for its governor, is a little unlucky perhaps; but" Aderbion"
is much nearer" Azerbaijan" than one generally expects in such cases from French writers of the seventeenth or
even of other centuries. The Oriental character of the story, however,
is but partial. The Illustrious Pasha himself, though First Vizir and"
victorious" general of Soliman are united without an earthquake,
and Porsena, with obliging gallantry, resigns the crown of Clusium(
from which he has the Second, is not a Turk at all, but a" Justinian"
or Giustiniani of Genoa, whose beloved Isabelle is a Princess of Monaco,
and who at the end, after necessary dangers,[ 195] retires with her
to that Principality, with a punctilious explanation from the author
about the Grimaldis.

The scene is partly there and at Genoa-- the best Genoese families,
including the Dorias, appearing-- partly at Constantinople: and the
business at the latter place is largely concerned with the intrigues,
jealousies, and cruelties of Roxelane, who is of the time-- things
which again were quite new in prose fiction, and, in fact, could hardly
be said to be anywhere present in literature outside of drama.

To set against these not so very small merits in the present, and very considerable seeds of promise
for the future, there are, of course, serious faults or defects-- defaults
drawn much more( one regrets to say) as history paints her than as
the agreeable creature of Marmontel' s subsequent fancy.

The book is a mere cockboat beside the mighty argosy of the Cyrus,
running only to four volumes and some two thousand pages.

But though smaller, it is much" stodgier."

The Histoires break out at once with the story of a certain Alibech-- much more proper for the young
person than that connected with the same name by Boccaccio,-- and those who have acquired some knowledge
of Mlle. Madeleine' s ways will know what it means when, adopting the improper but defensible
practice of" looking at the end," they find that not merely" Justinian"
and Isabelle, but a Horace and a Hypolite, a Doria and a Sophronie,
an Alphonse and a Léonide are all married on the same day, while a"
French Marquis" and an Emilie vow inviolable but celibate constancy
to each other; they will know, that is to say, that in the course
of the book all these will have been duly" historiated."

To encourage them, a single hint that Léonide sometimes plays a little of the parts of Martésie and Doralise
in the Cyrus may be thrown in. There is, however, one sentence in the second
volume of Ibrahim which is worth quotation and brief comment, because
it is a text for the whole management and system of these novels, and
accounts for much in their successors almost to the present day.

Emilie is telling the Histoire of Isabelle, and excuses herself for not
beginning at the beginning:" Puisque je sais que vous n' ignorez pas
l' amour du Prince de Masseran, les violences et les artifices de Julie,
la trahison de Féliciane, le généreux ressentiment de Doria[ this
is another Doria], la mort de cet amant infortuné, et ensuite celle
de Julie."

In other words,
all these things have been the subject of previous histories or of
the main text.

And so it is always. Diderot admired, or at least excused, that procedure
of Richardson' s which involved the telling of the conversation of
an average dinner- party in something like a small volume. But the" Heroic"
method would have made it necessary to tell the previous experiences
of the lady you took down to dinner, and the man that you talked to
afterwards, while, if extended from aristocratic to democratic ideas,
it would have justified a few remarks on the cabmen who brought both,
and the butcher and fishmonger who supplied the feast.

The inconvenience of this earlier practice made itself felt, and by degrees it dropped off; but it was succeeded
by a somewhat similar habit of giving the subsequent history of personages introduced-- a thing
which, though Scott satirised it in Mrs. Martha Buskbody' s insistence on information about the later history
of Guse Gibbie,[ 196] by no means ceased with his time.

Both were, in fact, part of the general refusal to accept the conditions of ordinary life. If" tout passe" is an exaggeration,
it is an exaggeration of the truth: and in fiction, as in fact, the minor shapes must dissolve
as well as arise without too much fuss being made about them.[ 197][
Sidenote: Almahide.] Almahide is, I think, more readable than Ibrahim;
but the English reader must disabuse himself of the idea( if he entertains
it) that he will find much of the original of The Conquest of Granada.

The book does, indeed, open like the play, man with the faction- fights of Abencerrages and Zegrys, and
it ends with Boabdelin' s jealousy of his wife Almahide, while a few of the other names in both
identical. But Almahide contains nothing, or hardly anything, of the
character of Almanzor, and Dryden has not attempted to touch a hundredth
part of the copious matter of the French novel, the early history of
Almahide, the usual immense digressions and side- histoires, the
descriptions( which, as in Ibrahim, play, I think, a larger relative
part than in the Cyrus), and what not.[ Sidenote: Clélie.][ Sidenote:
Perhaps the liveliest of the set.] Copious as these are, however,
in both books, they do not fill them out to anything like the length
of the Cyrus itself, or of its rival in size, and perhaps superior
in attraction, the Clélie.

I do not plead guilty to inconsistency or change of opinion in this" perhaps"
when it is compared with the very much larger space given to the
earlier novel.

Le Grand Cyrus has been estated too firmly, as the type and representative of the whole class,
to be dislodged, and there is, as we shall see presently, a good
deal of repetition from it in Clélie itself. But this latter is the
more amusing book of the two; it is, though equally or nearly as
big, less labyrinthine; there is somewhat livelier movement in it,
and at the same time this is contrasted with a set or series of interludes
of love- casuistry, which are better, I think, than anything of the
kind in the Cyrus.[ 198] The most famous feature of these is, of course,
the well- known but constantly misnamed"

Carte de Tendre"(" Map of the Country of Tenderness"-- not of" Tenderness in the aibstract," as du
Tendre would be). The discussion of what constitutes Tenderness comes
quite early; there is later a notable discourse on the respective
attractions of Love and of Glory or Ambition; a sort of Code and Anti-
code of lovers[ 199] occurs as" The Love- Morality of Tiramus," with
a set of( not always) contrary criticism thereof; and a debate of
an almost mediaeval kind as to the respective merits of merry and
melancholy mistresses.

Moreover, there is a rather remarkable" Vision of Poets"-- past, present, and
to come-- which should be taken in connection with the appearance, as
an actual personage, of Anacreon. All this, taken in conjunction with
the" business" of the story, helps to give it the superior liveliness
with which it has, rightly or wrongly, been credited here.[ Sidenote:
Rough outline of it.] Of that business itself a complete account cannot,
for reasons given more than once, be attempted; though anybody who
wants such a thing, without going to the book itself, may find it
in the places also above mentioned.

There is no such trick played upon the educated but not wideawake person as( v. inf.) in La Calprenède'
s chief books. Clélie is the real Clelia, if the modern historical student will pass" real" without sniffing,
or even if he will not. Her lover," Aronce," although he probably
may be a little disguised from the English reader by his spelling, is
so palpably the again real"

Aruns," son of Porsena, that one rather wonders how his identity can
have been so long concealed in French( where the pronunciations would
be practically the same) from the readers of the story. The book begins
with a proceeding not quite so like that of the Cyrus as some to be mentioned
later, but still pretty close to the elder overture." The illustrious
Aronce and the adorable Clelia" are actually going to be married,
when there is a fearful storm, an earthquake, and a disappearance
of the heroine.

She has, of course, been carried off; one might say, without be flippancy,
of any heroine of Madeleine de Scudéry' s not only that she was, as in a famous
and already quoted saying," very liable to be carried off," but that it
was not in nature that she should not be carried off as early and
as often as possible.

And her abductor
is no less a person than Horatius-- our own Horatius Cocles-- the
one who kept the bridge in some of the best known of English verses,
not he who provoked, from the sister whom he murdered, the greatest
speech in all French tragedy before, and perhaps not merely before,
Victor" for some time, and that in which his actual relationship to
Porsena is treated, have also too much of Hugo.

Horatius is the Philidaspes of Clélie, but, as he was
bound to be, an infinitely better fellow and of a better fate. Of course
the end knits straight on to the beginning.

Clélie and Aronce himself long been kept out by a" Mezentius," who will hardly work in with Virgil'
s), not to Aronce, but to Clélie herself. The enormous interval between( the book is practically as long
as the Cyrus) is occupied by the same, or( v. sup.) nearly the same tissue of
delays, digressions, and other maze- like devices for setting you off
on a new quest when you seem to be quite close to the goal. A large part
of the scene is in Carthage, where, reversing the process in regard
to Mezentius, Asdrubals and Amilcars make their appearance in a very"
mixedly" historical fashion.

A Prince of Numidia( who had heard of Numidia in Tarquin' s days?)
fights a lively water- combat with Horatius actually as he is carrying
Clélie off, over the Lake of Thrasymene.

All the stock legends of the Porsena siege and others are duly brought
in: and the atrocious Sextus, not contented with his sin against Lucrèce,
tries to carry off Clélie likewise, but is fortunately or wisely prevented.

Otherwise the invariable propriety which from the time of the small love-
novels( v. sup. pp. 157- 162) had distinguished these abductions
might possibly have been broken through.

These outlines might be expanded( and the process would not be very painful to me) into an abstract
quite as long as that of Cyrus; but" It Cannot Be."

One objection, foreshadowed, and perhaps a little more, already, must be allowed against Clélie. That
tendency to resort to repetition of situations and movements-- which
has shown itself so often, and which practically distinguishes the
very great novelists from those not so great by its absence or presence--
is obvious here, though the huge size of the book may conceal it from
mere dippers, unless they be experts.

The similarity of the openings is, comparatively speaking, a usual thing. It should not happen,
and does not in really great writers; but it is tempting, and is to
some extent excused by the brocard about le premier pas. It is so nice
to put yourself in front of your beginning-- to have made sure of
it! But this charity will hardly extend to such a thing as the repetition
of Cyrus' s foolish promise to fight Philidaspes before he marries
Mandane in the case of Aronce, Horatius, and Clélie.

The way in which Aronce is kept an" unknown the replica; and though a lively
skirmish with a pirate which occurs is not quite so absurd as that ready- made
series of encores which was described above( pp. 181- 2), there is
something a little like it in the way in which the hero and his
men alternately reduce the enemy to extremity, and run over the deck
to rescue friends who are in the pirates' power from being butchered
or flung overboard." Sapho' s" invention, though by no means sterile,
was evidently somewhat indiscriminate, and she would seem to have
thought it rather a pity that a good thing should be used only once.

Nevertheless the compliment given above may be repeated. If I were sent to twelve months' imprisonment
of a mild description, and allowed to choose a library, I should include in it, from the heroic
or semi- heroic division, Clélie, La Calprenède' s two chief books, Gomberville'
s Polexandre, and Gombauld' s Endimion( this partly for the pictures anger),
with, as a matter of course, the Astrée, and a choice of one other.

By reading slowly and" savouring" the process, I should imagine that,
with one' s memories of other things, they might be able to last for
a year.

And it would be one of the best kind of fallows for the brain. In anticipation,
let us see something of these others now.[ Sidenote: La Calprenède:
his comparative cheerfulness.] It has seemed, as was said, desirable to
follow the common opinion of literary history in giving Madeleine
de Scudéry the place of honour, and the largest as well as the foremost
share in our account of this curious stage in the history of the novel.

But if, to alter slightly a famous quotation, I might" give a short
hint to an impartial reader," I should very strongly advise him to
begin his studies( or at least his enjoyment) thereof, not with"

Sapho," but with Gauthier de Costes, Seigneur de la Calprenède, himself according to Tallemant
almost the proverbial" Gascon et demi"; a tragic dramatist, as well as a romantic writer; a favourite
of Mme. de Sévigné, who seldom went wrong in her preferences, except
when she preferred her very disagreeable daughter to her very agreeable
son; and more than any one else the inventor, or at least perfecter,
of the hectoring heroic style which we associate with Dryden' s plays.



Will you engage, my dear, that the hated man shall not come near your house?--But what an inconsistence
is this, when they consent to my going, thinking his visits here no otherwise to be avoided!--But
if he does come, I charge you never to leave us alone together.

As I have no reason to doubt a welcome from your good mother, I will put every thing in order
here, and be with you in two or three days.

Mean time, I am Your most affectionate and obliged, CLARISSA HARLOWE.

LETTER VII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE [AFTER HER RETURN FROM HER.] HARLOWE-PLACE, FEB. 20.

I beg your excuse for not writing sooner. Alas! my dear, I have sad prospects before me! My
brother and sister have succeeded in all their views. They have found out another lover for
me; an hideous one!--Yet he is encouraged by every body. No wonder that I was ordered home
so suddenly. At an hour's warning!--No other notice, you know, than what was brought with the
chariot that was to carry me back.--It was for fear, as I have been informed [an unworthy fear!]
that I should have entered into any concert with Mr. Lovelace had I known their motive for
commanding me home; apprehending, 'tis evident, that I should dislike the man they had to propose
to me.

And well might they apprehend so:--For who do you think he is?--No other than that Solmes--Could
you have believed it?--And they are all determined too; my mother with the rest!--Dear, dear
excellence! how could she be thus brought over, when I am assured, that on his first being
proposed she was pleased to say, That had Mr. Solmes the Indies in possession, and would endow
me with them, she should not think him deserving of her Clarissa!

The reception I met with at my return, so different from what I used to meet with on every
little absence [and now I had been from them three weeks], convinced me that I was to suffer
for the happiness I had had in your company and conversation for that most agreeable period.
I will give you an account of it.

My brother met me at the door, and gave me his hand when I stepped out of the chariot. He bowed
very low: pray, Miss, favour me.--I thought it in good humour; but found it afterwards mock
respect: and so he led me in great form, I prattling all the way, inquiring of every body's
health, (although I was so soon to see them, and there was hardly time for answers,) into the
great parlour; where were my father, mother, my two uncles, and sister.

I was struck all of a heap as soon as I entered, to see a solemnity which I had been so little
used to on the like occasions in the countenance of every dear relation. They all kept their
seats. I ran to my father, and kneeled: then to my mother: and met from both a cold salute:
From my father a blessing but half pronounced: My mother indeed called me child; but embraced
me not with her usual indulgent ardour.

After I had paid my duty to my uncles, and my compliments to my sister, which she received
with solemn and stiff form, I was bid to sit down. But my heart was full: and I said it became
me to stand, if I could stand, upon a reception so awful and unusual. I was forced to turn
my face from them, and pull out my handkerchief. 

Strange looking carts, drawn by donkeys with large ears, vied with the ox- carts for supremacy of
traffic.

Battery D continued its march through the town; across the cement bridge
over the Gartempe; into an octagon- shaped intersection of public
streets, lined with several three- story buildings, the principal one
of which gave evidence of being a cafe and bore the sign," Cafe du
Commerce."

Along the river' s edge were located public places for clothes- washing. The area billeting officer produced a
large key, threw open the door and half the battery was ushered
inside.

Nicholas Young, of Pottsville, Penna., acting as Number 2 man on the gun-
crew, sustained a compound fracture of the leg. The other half of the
battery was directed to a barn structure about a block distant from the
first battery abode. Battery D was not long in getting acquainted
with the French 75' s. On September 16th, just a brief span after the
first instruction on the mechanism of the gun, the boys fired the first
salvos on the range at La Courtine.

About 3 o' clock that afternoon the barrack bags of the regiment were received and distributed to the soldiers.
Toward the last of October it looked as though the outfit would soon
see active service, as perfection in firing was rapidly being reached.

Arrangements
were made with several French farmers to bring a quantity of straw to the
public square, where the soldiers, later in the afternoon, filled
their bed ticks.

It, also, is a 12th century building, built on a high slope, with
its chapel undermined with a series of catacombs.

He varied his periods of drill and training with athletics. It was strange
to observe the peasantry hobbling along in their wooden shoes, the flopping
of the loose footwear at the heels beating a rhythmic clap, clap
on the cobblestone pave.

The battery men spent most of the time about town. While waiting to move the battery took up a new position
on the range. Quaintly and slowly oxen under yoke were used on the scorching sun the farmer and
his helpers toiled with hand flailers, thrashing the grain.

Every vacant house, barn or shed that possibly could be pressed into service, was designated as
a billet for the troops. Opposite the bridge, the route was along Rue de Strasburg, where, in the
rear of the Cafe du Commerce, Battery D halted before a three- story
stone structure that bore signs of having been vacated for many years.

The peasant whose house adjoined the river had a private place at the
water' s- edge where the family washing was done. It was decreed
that instruction in front- line packs to be rolled the school of the
soldier should begin immediately.

While in Montmorillon Lieut. Sidney F. Bennett instituted a series
of battalion and regimental setting- up exercises.

The hundreds
of soldiers sought out washer- women.

The first days at La Courtine were given over to hours of intensive exercise, drill and instruction
in all lines of artillery work. The more active of the washer- women spent
entire days washing at the river for the soldiers. Special instruction
was started in map and road sketching, orientation and signal work. To
the Americans the town of Montmorillon, as was the case of most of
the ancient towns visited in France, presented an impression of isolation.

The kitchens were located under a tented roof. The stages and wages of war
advanced with the centuries, but not so with the ancient French town;
where the peasants live content with no sewerage or drainage system; content
to pursue the antiquated customs. Strict disciplinary measures were
immediately adopted.

The first night the 311th was in Montmorillon fire broke out in" The Baines," an ornate and modern
French homestead near the Cafe du Commerce.

The same day, November 4th, another battery member was claimed in death by Influenza. They were forced
to vacate by the fire. The route was through Dorat, Gueter, Busseau and Feletin.
September 30th was one of the days reveille sounded at 4: 30 a. m.
The weather was miserable-- rainy, windy, dreary. Private Loughran
was buried alongside Private Fardon, on the morning of November 6th.

Training activity was the official topic of interest. The river served as
a huge tub for the entire community, the women carrying their wash
to the river, where, kneeling at special devised wash- boards, garments
were rubbed and paddled until they shown immaculate. having a majority
of the window panes broken, the barracks bore marks of having been
the target for machine- gun bullets.

When French peasants toiled a whole day for several francs and when the pay
of the French soldier was not equalling one franc a day, the French,
when the private was paid$ 33 a month in 179.85 francs, gained the
idea that all Americans were millionaires.

Out from the town, among the open farm lands, a large grain field was secured
as a drill field for the battery.

Except for a detachment from the regiment who replaced the negro M.  P.' s no guard duty was
necessary in the town. About this time several French army sergeants were attached to the regiment
and instruction in gun pit construction was started.

The time on the drill field was spent in learning the rudiments in much
the same manner as the training was started and progressed with
the first recruits at Camp Meade.

The news
enthused the soldiers and thrilled them with the desire to move forward and get in on the grand finale.
Corporal James F. Kelly, of Plains, Penna., almost collided with a grenade
on the same trip.

The execution of the command was immediately followed by an explosion in the gun' s tube, a portion
of steel flying and striking Private Reynolds, almost decapitating
him.

Inspections were held on the public plaza.

Regimental services were held in the public square on Sunday mornings, while many of the soldiers
visited the curious, two- storied chapel of octagonal form and Romanesque
style, that was built in the 12th century, in which services were
still conducted.

Saturday afternoon and Sunday were days of rest for those who were lucky enough to escape detail.
Showdown inspections were as exacting as Camp Meade days. The chapel is connected with the ecclesiastical
seminary that occupies a building that was formerly an Augustinian
convent. The weather had been ideal throughout the month of August.

It was on a tick of straw, thrown on the floor of the old dilapidated,
vacated house, that one hundred of the battery spent their nights
of sleep in Montmorillon while the other half occupied similar beds
on the upper- lofts of the barn.

Toward the latter part of August steps were taken to organize a battery
commander' s detail.

Various schools for instruction of the officers of the regiment were established at Montmorillon. A
battery kitchen, utilizing the field range, was set up in close proximity
to the two battery billets.

Battery D was not in camp long before the members knew the story of the Russian
revolt that had been staged at La Courtine during the days of Russia'
s exit from the war.

Lieut. Bennett immediately won great favor among the men. There were no
formations the morning after arrival. About twenty horses were furnished
the regiment at La Courtine. A detachment of new officers from the
Saumur school arrived in town to take charge of the training work
while the regular officers attended the schools.

Here the boys lined up with their mess- kits three times a day. The problem required twenty- four consecutive hours.
CHAPTER XVII.

The first despatch of mail to reach Battery D overseas was at Montmorillon on August 13th. Cheer
was added, however, when mail from the United States and home began to reach the outfit. Gone were the
cots of Camp Meade memory. Then on August 14th came the first overseas payday. A large Russian cannon
was discharged in the camp each morning at 5 o' clock, also at retreat
time each night.

The first pay was in French currency, the rate of exchange at the time being 5:
45 francs to the American dollar. It was necessary to begin the training
at the beginning. The result was the establishment of two standards of
price in French shops; one price for the French and a higher price for the
Americans. Many Russians were slain in the revolt and lie buried in
a cemetery in the camp.

In the matter of fruits, peaches commanded one franc for three during
the peach season; apples sold two for one franc; while tomatoes that
should have sold for one franc a basket, brought one franc for five.

The village is divided into two parts; that which is gathered around a progressive looking station,
and part is on a hill, which part is called Hightown.

While the battery was fitting itself at range practice, specialists
were qualifying in all the attendant duties of artillery work.

The wine shops did
a thriving business and as is usual in large crowds, the element
was present that was not satisfied with sampling the large assortment
of wine- vintages but indulged in Cognac.

To be thrown in the midst of this 12th century environment was productive
of lasting impressions on the part of the American troops who were
suddenly transplanted from a land of 20th century civilization and
advancement, to an old and foreign soil La Courtine, therefore, was
the site of a French artillery camp for many years.

The cognac proclivities of the few endangered the privileges of the
many in having freedom to visit in the town at night. It was to La Courtine
that the 311th was bound after leaving Montmorillon. Trips of inspection
to these subalterean chambers, where the worship of the early ages
was conducted, were numerous and interesting to the soldiers.

Lieut. Hugh M. Clarke took charge of the instruction work.

At first one franc was a standard price for having a week' s laundry
done, but as days passed and business became brisker, rates went
up to two, five and in some instances higher.

On August 21st the regiment passed if in review on the large regimental
drill ground, under a burning sun.

The battery in general was also put through a strenuous course in the
use of the semaphore and the wigwag. There was a plentiful supply of
ammunition at La Courtine. Washing was greatly increased at the river when
the 311th came to town.

Calesthenics,
to the music of the regimental band, was the feature of the exercises.
Meanwhile the outfit was packed up in the main, and was ready to
move at short notice.

This hike was in order that every morning and afternoon.

Sergeant Farrell, who was a regular army service man, was buried at La
Courtine on Monday, November 4th. Present day reminiscences vouch for
the fact that the stay in Montmorillon was most pleasant.

The Church of the Notre Dame is another ancient landmark of Montmorillon that held interest for the
Americans. It required a thirty- five minute hike from the battery
billeting area to reach the drill field. During the first week of
September, 1918, however, all that the boys had to compare their
lots and life in Montmorillon with was Camp Meade regime.

Training was continued amid rumors of early departure for active battle sectors. Those who failed to see the
good points of Montmorillon, moreover, were without knowledge of what
the future held in store for the outfit in its journey through France.

Several of the first offenders, none of whom, however, were from Battery
D ranks, were reduced in rank at a public battalion formation on
the public square.

The soldiers were allowed to be on the streets until 9 o' clock each
night. Both parts are confined to one street, replete with bars and
cafes.

Battery punishment was inflicted at times, which constituted carrying a
full pack on the back at drill formation or for a certain period
after drill hours.

The brigade problem, which was the last firing the battery did in France, ended on October 30th with
the laying down of a defensive barrage. Onto every box car was loaded anywhere from 36 to 50 soldiers and
a supply of iron- rations for the trip.

Thrilling news of the final stages of the drives reached the boys through
the Paris editions of the New York Herald and Chicago Tribune, that
were sold in the camp each day.

Bucket brigades was the only fire protection the prefecture afforded
its citizenry.

La Courtine was reached at 9 o' clock.

On October 28th, First Lieutenant C.  D. Bailey joined the battery at La
Courtine.

Besides adjusting the mask a countless number of times a day, a regimental
order made it mandatory that the masks be worn for at least one-
half hour continuously each day.

The floor and ceiling, however, was solid, which, at least, meant dry shelter during the nights of France'
s rainy season, soon to be experienced. Fifty per Battery D spent
eight months in learning the 3- inch American field gun. Late in the
afternoon of November 2nd death claimed First- Sergeant James J.
Farrell, of Parsons, Penna., who died a victim of pneumonia.

Details
were kept busy for several days digging gun pits near the regimental drill grounds, but before the job was
fully completed orders came for cent of the regiment comprised new
recruits, who had been assigned to the outfit previous to departure
from Camp Meade.

The exterior
walls were pitted with holes. Second Lieut. Sidney F. Bennett of Derby,
Vermont, was assigned to Battery D at this time and was given plenty of work
in supervising the morning drill and battery instructions. When
Russia withdrew from the fighting Camp La Courtine sheltered Russian
troops.

They had arrived at La Courtine several weeks previous to attend the
machine- gun school. On September 10th matériel began to arrive for the
regiment.

The
revolutionists fortified the surrounding hills with machine- guns and opened fire on the barracks
of the camp below. Souvenir postcards sold anywhere from 10 centimes to
five francs apiece. The revolt was finally suppressed by a detachment
of French cavalry dispatched to the scene.

Battery kitchens were set up the morning after arrival.

Sleeping quarters at Camp La Courtine contained bunks made of two- inch
plank, on which the Americans used their bed- ticks filled with straw.
Houses built during the 12th century with their high walls surrounding
and barricaded entrances, were greatly in evidence; houses of such
nature, history records, as furnishing protection in the days when
feudalism fought at spear- points.

It was the declining days of the French dry- season.

Mess was enjoyed by the soldiers out in the open, as there was no mess hall
for Battery D. Except a slight rain the first day at Montmorillon, the four
weeks spent by the outfit in Vienne Department were weeks of sunshine
without a single day of rain, save the slight shower on the day of
arrival.

The inevitable delay resulted,
however. It rained the first night in camp and it kept raining almost
continuously during the two months the battery spent at range practice.
It was the first time that a majority of the boys of the regiment
ever came in contact with a 75.

The peasant women welcomed the opportunity of earning a few francs
doing American washing.

Specialty schools were started in orientation, telephone, radio, machine- gunners,
etc. It was at La Courtine that Bill Brennan and Joe Loskill, who accompanied
the advance detail of the regiment to France, rejoined the battery. When
the crash came part of the Russian army encamped there revolted against
a portion that sought to remain loyal to France.

The machine- gunners, who left the battery at Montmorillon to attend
the school, were also at La Courtine when the battery arrived.

Several days previous, October 11th, William Reynolds, of Pottsville, Penna., was killed when acting
as No.  1 man of the first gun crew, in charge of Sergeant James Duffy, of Parsons, Penna. The battery
members were paid with an addition of ten per cent for foreign service.

On October 5th, the camp Y.  M.  C.  A. was closed under quarantine.
All energy was devoted to essential war- training formations.

Gas masks and steel helmets were additional implements of war issued to the soldiers at La Courtine.
To a majority of the troops the Y.  M.  C.  A. furnished greater
inducement for an evening especially' s entertainment than did the
numerous wineshops down town, that always stood open and ready to
receive the cash of the American soldiers.

The result was battle. Within a few days the regiment was equipped
with French artillery equipment, the field pieces being the famous
French 75 millimetre guns.

The weather, however, affected no training schedules. With the approach
of November the boys thought their movement was assured and plans were
laid for a" feed," consisting of a pig- roast, to be held on November
2nd.

It was an entirely new proposition when equipped with 75' s and ordered to
range practice. Rolling out at 5 a. m., the boys toiled on the range
through the rain and mud, returning to barracks at 6: 30 p. m. Training
continued in intensity.

Many a soldier became highly exasperated in a vain attempt to untangle a set of French harness.
French artillery harness presented many new problems to the Americans."
O' Grady,"" Crow and Crane,"" Belt' Round the ring," and numerous other
sport contests were indulged in with great vim. Several motor trucks
were also supplied, whereby sufficient traction was secured to drag
the guns out among the surrounding hills for actual firing practice.

Clean- up activities of similar nature were instituted in the barn. September 19th was the beginning
of what was almost incessant work on the range.

Instruction was also started in equitation and harnessing. The fire drew a large crowd of the new soldiers,
a score of whom took active charge of fighting the blaze; giving
the Frenchmen a real exhibition in the art of bucket- brigade fire
extinction.

The battery left the barracks at day- break and hiked to the range with field- packs, to sleep in
pup tents on range grounds, to be on hand early the following morning.
Camp La Courtine housed a large and well- equipped American Y.  M.  C. 
A., presided over by a large and capable staff of secretaries.

As early as October 10th orders were received for the outfit to prepare
to move.

Gas masks were carried by the battery on all hikes and drill formations. The camp consisted of concrete barracks,
with no lights at night and a majority of the windows broken.

Influenza struck the regiment while encamped at La Courtine early in October. Reveille
was a daily formation but, as was the case at Montmorillon, retreat was
suspended during the months the war continued.

The quarantine in the regiment was accompanied by strict daily inspections.

The barrack squad rooms were thoroughly cleaned and disinfected each day
and all blankets were taken out for a daily airing.

The swim in the river at the close of that day was especially inviting. The battery spent the days at range practice
when thousands of dollars worth of shells were fired at a great variety
of targets from several different battery positions that were established.

Many spent their money freely. The bags had been in transit ever since
leaving Camp Meade. October 15th the battery camouflage detail, headed
by Sergeant Leo Delaney, of Pittston, Penna., began the construction
of camouflaged gun positions on the range, after which Battery D participated
in the firing of a brigade problem.

Instruction was continued from early morning until nightfall. Standing
in the rear of the piece, Sergeant Duffy had given the command to fire.
Saturday morning for the troops at Montmorillon was generally inspection
time.

It immediately fell their task to brush the cow- webs from the ceilings;
gather up the fallen plaster from the floor; sweep out several years'
accumulation of dirt and dust; while the old- fashioned shutters were
pried open for the first time in many years and the sunshine streamed
into the rooms, to drive away, to some degree, the mustiness of environment.

Gunner- Corporal John Chardell, of Hazleton, Penna., sustained injuries about
the body which confined him to the camp hospital for several weeks.
On one of the trips to the pistol range, on November 5th, Private
William Van Campen, of Ridgewood, N.  J., walked into a loaded hand
grenade, which he kicked.

This first casualty overseas awakened a new cord of sympathy among
the battery members and it was with thoughtful determination they
turned from the grave of their departed comrade and went back to their
tasks of preparing for active war.

In the light of this comparison many expressed words of approval
that the outfit was finally getting away from such a horrid place.
Then followed hour after hour of gas instruction.

Supply the streets to haul the farmers' grain to the large public
square, where, under wagons, etc., were immediately packed.

On the evening of Wednesday, November 6th, a battery entertainment
was staged in the auditorium of the camp Y.  M.  C.  A. A mock trial was
the feature of the entertainment.

Each day the boys looked for an order to entrain, but the R.  T.  O.'
s were not heard from.

Montmorillon was last seen at 10 a. m., September 4th, when the trip of box
cars began to jolt and bang and back and switch over the rails, with
the troops aboard making the best of the situation, reclining on straw
that had been secured to partly cover the crude oil.

When 4 o' clock of each afternoon came, the order was established for
a swim in the river as the parting day' s rejuvenator.

They had toiled early and late, in all kinds of weather, to learn
how, and it is natural to presume that a red- blooded soldier yearned
the opportunity to make use of that knowledge acquired with such sacrifice
and toil.

Each day brought new scenes of peasant life. A brigade firing problem
including a night barrage was fired on October 21st, with the signal details
at work with signal rockets.

The French
had turned the artillery camp over to the Americans and thither the 311th regiment was sent to get active
and intense training in range fire with the use of the French 75'
s. The troop special assigned to the regiment upon leaving Montmorillon
was made up of box cars, many of which had recently been used to transport
crude oil, evinced by the oil on the floor of the cars.

They sat out in the narrow French street as they appeased their appetites.
As per usual the first few sections of the battery were left at the
station as a baggage detail, while the remainder of the battery marched
through the village to the camp on the outskirts.

Lieut. Bailey was formerly of the ambulance service of the French army and the S.  S.  U., No.  5. and
at that time, he was the only man in the regiment entitled to wear
a French decoration.

The long hike to the grain field drill ground was abandoned after two
weeks and the village plaza was used for drill purposes. During
the period of training at Camp Meade, Md., U.  S.  A., the old members
of the regiment to leave Montmorillon.

Several officers of the 311th regiment had secured quarters in the
Baines. That evening at 6: 55 o' clock Private First- Class Joseph
A. Loughran, of Hazleton, Penna., fell a victim to pneumonia.

He was Private Horace Fardon, of Paterson, N.  J., who was buried on November 5th. Time, however,
was not to view French scenery.

Besides paying last military honors to their departed comrades the boys spent the days should previous
to the cessation of the fighting on the pistol range, developing their
proficiency with side- arms. Days passed, but no transportation was
in sight.

Private Reynolds was buried in the American cemetery at Camp La Courtine
on Saturday, October 12th, at 2 p. m., with military honors.

The resultant explosion caught him in the knee and incapacitated him on the hospital list. Montmorillon was the
only place in France where the battery got frequent baths. An order was issued, November 9th, for;
transportation was in sight.

Advent of the outfit at La Courtine was with the rainy season.

All transportation facilities were busy hauling ammunition to the front where the Allies were giving
the Germans the rain of fire that caused them to think seriously
and quick about an armistice.

Gone
were the mess hall tables of Camp Meade days. NOVEMBER ELEVENTH AT LA COURTINE.
 For my regards are not so much engaged [upon
my word they are not; I know not myself if they be] to another person as some of my friends
suppose; and as you, giving way to your lively vein, upon his last visits, affected to suppose.
What preferable favour I may have for him to any other person, is owing more to the usage he
has received, and for my sake borne, than to any personal consideration.

I write a few lines of grateful acknowledgement to your good mother for her favours to me in
the late happy period. I fear I shall never know such another. I hope she will forgive me,
that I did not write sooner.

The bearer, if suspected and examined, is to produce that as the only one he carries.

How do needless watchfulness and undue restraint produce artifice and contrivance! I should
abhor these clandestine correspondences, were they not forced upon me. They have so mean, so
low an appearance to myself, that I think I ought not to expect that you should take part in them.

But why (as I have also expostulated with my aunt) must I be pushed into a state, which I have
no wish to enter into, although I reverence it?--Why should not my brother, so many years older,
and so earnest to see me engaged, be first engaged?--And why should not my sister be first
provided for?

I must not, you say, give my advice in favour of this man!--You now convince me, my dear, that
you are nearer of kin than I thought you, to the family that could think of so preposterous
a match, or you would never have had the least notion of my advising in his favour.

Ask for his picture. You know I have a good hand at drawing an ugly likeness. But I'll see
a little further first: for who knows what may happen, since matters are in such a train; and
since you have not the courage to oppose so overwhelming a torrent?

You ask me to help you to a little of my spirit. Are you in earnest? But it will not now, I
doubt, do you service.--It will not sit naturally upon you. You are your mother's girl, think
what you will; and have violent spirits to contend with. Alas! my dear, you should have borrowed
some of mine a little sooner;--that is to say, before you had given the management of your
estate into the hands of those who think they have a prior claim to it. What though a father's!--Has
not the father two elder children?--And do they not both bear more of his stamp and image than
you do?--Pray, my dear, call me not to account for this free question; lest your application
of my meaning, on examination, prove to be as severe as that. 

But the Councillors made a vigorous defense of the action of the Assembly, and unanimously advised the
Governor to suspend the execution of the King' s command.[ 831] After some hesitation, Culpeper yielded,
and the matter was referred back to the Privy Council.

Charles was finally induced to the Rebellion and the events following
it, had weakened the loyalty of the people and shown them the possibility
of resisting the King' s commands.

The commons, angered at the severity
of the punishment inflicted upon the rebel leaders, and disappointed
in the royal for their loyal support in the rescind the order, but
he insisted that all reference to the declaration" be taken off the
file and razed out of the books of Virginia".[ 832] The work of the
commission being completed, Berry and Moryson, in July, 1677, sailed
with the royal squadron for England.[ 833] Their report, which was
so damaging to the Virginia loyalists, was not allowed to go unchallenged.

Sir William Berkeley, upon his death bed, had told his brother, Lord
John Berkeley, of the hostility of the commissioners, and charged
him to defend his conduct and character.

And Lord Berkeley, who was a member of the Privy Council and a man of
great influence, did his best to refute their evidence and to discredit
them before the King.[ 834] Their entire report, he declared, was"
a scandalous lible and invective of Sir William... and the royal party
in Virginia".[ 835] His brother' s conduct always prudent and just,
and it was noticeable that not one private grievance had ever been
brought against him before this rebellion.[ 836] The meetings of
Lord Berkeley with the commissioners in the Council chamber were sometimes
stormy.

On one occasion he told Berry," with an angry voice and a Berklean look,... that he and Morryson had
murdered his brother"." Sir John as returned again" that they had done nothing but what they"'
s obligations, she was detained in Virginia, and, according to one
account, thrown into prison.[ 872] Mrs. Jeffreys later received the
arrears due her husband, and was thus enabled to free herself from
the power of her enemies. durst justify".[ 837] As the other members
of the Privy Council protected the commissioners, and upheld their
report, the attacks of the angry nobleman availed nothing.

Secretary Coventry averred that Berry 871]"' Tis plain," she wrote Secretary
Coventry," they seek my Life in malice to my husband, though none
of them can tax him with any injustice.... I cannot hope to outlive
this persecution, but I most humbly beseech you to intercede for me
to his Majesty, that my child may not be ruined."[ and Moryson had
been most faithful in carrying out the King' s directions, and he
showed his confidence in their honesty and their judgment by consulting
them upon all important matters relating to the colony.[ 838] And
for a while, their influence in shaping the policy of the Privy Council
in regard to Virginia was almost unlimited.

Nor did they scruple to use this great power to avenge themselves upon those
men that had so antagonized them and hindered their investigation.
Robert Beverley they represented to the Privy Council as a man of low education
and mean parts, bred a vulgar seaman and utterly unfit for high office.[
839] Colonel Edward Hill was the most hated man in Charles City county.[
840] Ballard, Bray and some of the other Councillors were rash and
fiery, active in opposing the King' s orders and unjust to the poor
people.[ 841] The Privy Council was so greatly influenced by these
representations that they determined to reconstruct the Virginia Council,
upon lines suggested by Berry and Moryson.

Colonel Philip Ludwell, Colonel Ballard and Colonel Bray were expressly excluded
from the Council, while Colonel Hill and Major Beverley as" men of
irreverence fame and behavior" were deprived of all governmental
employment whatsoever, and" declared unfit to serve His Majesty".[ 842]
On the other hand, Colonel Thomas Swann, who had been excluded from
the Council by Governor Berkeley, was now, for his kindness to the commissioners,
restored to his seat.[ 843] The departure of Sir William Berkeley by
no means ended the opposition to Colonel Jeffreys. A part of the Council,
realizing that continued hostility could result only in harm to themselves,
made their peace with the new administration, and were received into
favor but the more violent of the loyal party remained defiant and
abusive.

Philip Ludwell, Beverley, Hill, Ballard and others openly denounced Jeffreys as a weakling, entirely
unsuited for the important office he now occupied, and did their best to render him unpopular with the people.[
844] The Lieutenant- Governor retaliated with considerable spirit, depriving some of their lucrative
offices, and suspending others from the Council. Ludwell, whose conduct had
been especially obnoxious, was ousted from the collectorship of York
River.[ 845] Ballard was expelled from a similar office.[ 846] And
many months before the changes in the Council ordered by the English
government became known in Virginia, no less than six of the most
active loyalists had been suspended by the Lieutenant- Governor.[
847] But events soon took a more favorable turn for the Berkeley party.

The
departure of Berry and Moryson deprived Jeffreys of his staunchest friends and
advisors. And, before the end of the summer, he was prostrated by the
Virginia sickness, which was still deadly to those unaccustomed to
the climate of the colony. For several months he was too ill to attend
properly to his duties or to resist the machinations of his enemies,
and the government fell into the hands of the Council.[ 848] And since
this body, despite its pretended support of the Lieutenant- Governor,
was at heart in full sympathy with Beverley and Ludwell and the other
loyalists, the policy of the administration was once more changed.

The work of extortion was actively resumed and the courts again busied themselves with suits against the former
rebels.[ 849] But consternation seized the Green Spring faction, as the loyalists were now called, upon the
arrival of the King' s order, annulling Berkeley' s proclamation of February
10, 1677, and reaffirming the general pardon.[ 850] If this command
were put into effect, most of the confiscations secured since the
Rebellion, would become illegal, and restitution would have to be
made.

So desperately
opposed to this were the loyalists that they resolved to suppress the King' s letter. They believed that it
had been obtained by the influence of the commissioners, and this,
they hoped, would soon be rendered nugatory by the presence at court
of Sir William Berkeley. If they could keep the order secret for a
few weeks, new instructions, dictated by the Governor, might arrive
to render its execution unnecessary.

Colonel Jeffreys protested
against their disobedience, but he was too weak to oppose the will
of the Council.[ 851] So, for six weeks, his Majesty' s grace" was
unknown to ye poore Inhabitants", while the innumerable suits and
prosecutions were pushed vigorously.

Not until October the
twenty- sixth, when all hope of its revocation had been dispelled
by fresh information from England, did the Council consent to the
publication of the letter.[ 852] In September, 1677, writs were issued
for an election of Burgesses.[ 853] Had Jeffreys not been ill, he
would perhaps have refused to allow a new session of the Assembly.

The contest at the polls could but result in a victory for the Green
Spring faction, as the electoral machinery was in their hands. The Lieutenant-
Governor, although he had removed some of the higher colonial officials,
had made few changes in the personnel of the county courts.[ 854]
The sheriffs, by resorting to the old methods, made sure of the election
of most of the nominees of the loyal party.

Complaints came from James City county, New Kent county and other
places that intimidation and fraud had been used to deprive the people
of a fair election.[ 855] If we may believe the testimony of William
Sherwood, the Berkeley faction carried things with a high hand." The
Inhabitants of James City County," he wrote," did unanimously elect me
a Burgess... but several of my professed enemies... procured another
writt for a new election, with a positive command not to choose me.

The people then being under amazement consented to whome soever the Sheriffe would returne,& so my enemies
to make their party the stronger in ye house... causd three Burgesses
to serve for James City County."[ 856]"

By this means," wrote Colonel Daniel Parke," and by persuading the burgesses
that Sir William Berkeley was coming in Governour again,( the loyal party) got all
confirmed that was done at the Assembly before held at Greene Spring."[
857] In order to compensate themselves for their great losses and to
fulfil the promises made by Berkeley to his followers during the Rebellion,
they levied a tax upon the people of one hundred and ten pounds of
tobacco per poll."

    This with the county tax and parish tax," said Parke," is in some counties
250lbs, in some 300, and in some 400lbs, which falls very heavie upon
the poorer people." The county grievances were again rejected by the
Burgesses as false and scandalous, and the persons presenting had
been them were severely punished.[ 858] But the Assembly expressed
an earnest desire to bring about a reconciliation between the hostile
factions in the colony, and prescribed a heavy penalty for the use
of such opprobrious epithets as" traytor, Rebell Rougue, Rebell",
etc.[ 859] The news of Berkeley' s death was a severe blow to the
Green Spring party.

All the hope they had entertained that he would accomplish the overthrow of the work of the commissioners,
at once fell to the ground. But they were somewhat consoled by the appointment of Lord Culpeper. This
nobleman was related to Lady Berkeley, and they had good reason to
believe he would reverse the policy of the present administration and
ally himself with the loyalists.[ 860] In the be meanwhile the Lieutenant-
Governor was regaining his health and spirits, and was taking a more
active part in public affairs. He had been deeply angered with Colonel
Philip Ludwell for his many insults, and he now determined to prosecute
him" for scandalizing the Governor, and abusing the Authority of his
Majesty".[ 861] Ludwell' s unpardonable crime, it would seem, consisted
in calling Jeffreys" a pitiful little Fellow with a perriwig".[ 862]
He had also been heard to say that the Lieutenant- Governor was" a
worse Rebel than Bacon", that he had broken the laws of Virginia,
that he had perjured himself, that he" was not worth a Groat in England".

Nor was it considered
a sufficient excuse that Ludwell had made those remarks immediately
after consuming" part of a Flaggon of Syder".[ 863] The jury found
him guilty of" scandalizing the Governor", but acquitted him of any
intention of abusing his Majesty' s authority.

The General Court, upon the motion of Colonel Jeffreys, referred the
case to the King and Privy Council, that they might" advise a punishment proportionable
to the offence".[ 864] Against this decision the defendant, as he
had an undoubted right to do, appealed to the General Assembly. Ludwell felt,
no doubt, that should the appeal be allowed, his great influence in
the House of Burgesses would secure him a light sentence.

But the court declared the case so unprecedented that the now whole matter, including the question of appeal,
must be decided by the King. With the return of hot weather, Colonel Jeffreys, not yet being acclimated,
or" seasoned", as the Virginians expressed it, again became seriously
ill.[ 865] The Council elected a president to act in his place and
once more assumed control of the administration.[ 866] The Green
Spring faction, whom only the Lieutenant- Governor could restrain, again
lifted its head and endeavored" to continue their old exactions&
abuses".[ 867] Feeling, perhaps, a sense of security in their remoteness
from the King, which made it impossible for him to watch their actions
closely, or to mete out to them prompt punishment, they still disregarded
his pardon and his reiterated commands.[ 868]"

The colony would be as peaceful as could be wished," wrote William Sherwood in August, 1678,"
except for the malice of some discontented persons of the late Governor'
s party, who endeavour by all ye cunning contrivances that by their
artifice can be brought about, to bring a Contempt of Colonel Jeffreys,
our present good Governor.... Those persons who are the troublers
of the peace... are... Lady Berkeley, Colonel Philip Ludwell, Colonel
Thomas Ballard, Colonel Edward Hill, Major Robert Beverley, all of
which are cherished by Mr. Secretary Ludwell( who acts severely.)
It is to be feared, unless these fiery Spiritts are allayed or removed
home, there will not be that settled, happy peace and unity which
otherwise might be, for they are entered into a faction, which is
upheld by the expectation of my Lord Culpeper' s doing mighty things
for them& their interest."[ 869] Colonel Jeffreys died end to the
reign of terror inaugurated by Berkeley, prevented the unending law
suits, confiscations and compositions, reorganized the county courts
and assured to the people a fair election of Burgesses.

He seems to have
wished to rule justly and well, but he was too weak to quell the
strife between the rival factions and bring quiet to the distracted colony.
So bitter was the loyal party against Colonel Jeffreys, that after his
death they sought to revenge themselves upon his widow. The Lieutenant-
Governor had received in November, 1678.[ 870] It was the fortune of
this Governor to come to the colony in one of the greatest crises of
its history.

Had he been a man of ability and firmness he could have rendered the people services of great value. He might
have put an no part of his salary from March, 1678, to the day of his death, and had, as a result, incurred
considerable debt. As Mrs. Jeffreys was unable to meet all her husband[ 873] Upon
the death of Colonel Jeffreys, Sir Henry Chicheley, by virtue of a commission
granted in 1674, assumed control of the government.[ 874] The new
Governor had long served with distinction in the Council, and seems to
have been a" most loyal, worthy person and deservedly beloved by
the whole country".[ 875] But he was now too" old, sickly and crazy"
to govern the colony with the vigor and firmness that were so greatly
needed.[ 876] During the eighteen months of his administration the
people were" not reconciled to one another", and" ill blood" only
too often was manifested by both factions.[ 877] Sir Henry had himself
been a severe sufferer by the Rebellion.

He had fallen into Bacon'
s hands and had even, it would seem, been threatened with death,
in retaliation for Berkeley' s execution of Captain Carver.

Yet he attempted to rule impartially and well. Writs were issued in the spring of 1679 for an election of
Burgesses, and the people were protected from intimidation at the
polls.

The Assembly, as a result, showed itself more sane, more sensitive to
the wishes of the commons, than had been either of the sessions of 1677.[
878] Several laws were enacted redressing some of the most flagrant
evils of the old governmental system of Berkeley.

The voters of each parish were empowered
to elect two men" to sitt in the severall county courts and have their
equall votes with the severall justices for the makeing of by lawes".[
879] An act was passed putting a limit upon the excessive fees charged
by the collectors of the customs.[ 880] And the clamor of the loyalists
for the payment of their claims upon the treasury were unheeded, and
all public debts were referred for settlement to the next session.[
881] Chicheley' s administration came temporarily to an end with the
arrival of Lord Culpeper.

The period from the close of the Rebellion to May, 1680, when the new
Governor- General took the oath of office, seems, at first sight,
characterized only by confusion and disaster. The violent animosities,
the uncertainty of property rights, the lack of a firm and settled
government kept the people in constant uneasiness and discontent. The
numerous banishments and executions had deprived the colony of some
of its most intelligent and useful citizens, while the plundering of both
parties during the Rebellion, and the numberless forfeitures that
followed the establishment of peace, had reduced many men to poverty.

Nor had the most pressing of the grievances that had caused the people
to rise against the government been redressed. The Navigation Acts were
still in force, the commons were yet excluded from their rightful share
in the government, the taxes were more oppressive than ever.

Yet amid the melancholy confusion of the times, important changes
for the better were taking place. Never again was? an English Governor
to exercise the despotic power that had been Sir William Berkeley' s.
This was not due to the greater leniency of the British government,
or to lack of ambition in the later Governors.

But promise that their grievances should be redressed, regarded the
government with sullen hostility.

The wealthy planters resented what they considered Charles' ingratitude
hour of need, and complained bitterly of his interference with their
attempts to restore their ruined fortunes.

 Then, good-humoured as he is thought to be in the main to other people's servants,
and this even to familiarity (although, as you have observed, a familiarity that has dignity
in it not unbecoming to a man of quality) he is apt sometimes to break out into a passion with
his own: An oath or a curse follows, and such looks from those servants as plainly shew terror,
and that they should have fared worse had they not been in my hearing: with a confirmation
in the master's looks of a surmise too well justified.

     * Letter III.

Indeed, my dear, THIS man is not THE man. I have great objections to him. My heart throbs not
after him. I glow not, but with indignation against myself for having given room for such an
imputation. But you must not, my dearest friend, construe common gratitude into love. I cannot
bear that you should. But if ever I should have the misfortune to think it love, I promise
you upon my word, which is the same as upon my honour, that I will acquaint you with it.

You bid me to tell you very speedily, and by the new-found expedient, that I am not displeased
with you for your agreeable raillery: I dispatch this therefore immediately, postponing to
my next the account of the inducements which my friends have to promote with so much earnestness
the address of Mr. Solmes.

Be satisfied, my dear, mean time, that I am not displeased with you: indeed I am not. On the
contrary, I give you my hearty thanks for your friendly premonitions; and I charge you (as
I have often done) that if you observe any thing in me so very faulty as would require from
you to others in my behalf the palliation of friendly and partial love, you acquaint me with
it: for methinks I would so conduct myself as not to give reason even for an adversary to censure
me; and how shall so weak and so young a creature avoid the censure of such, if my friend will
not hold a looking-glass before me to let me see my imperfections?

Judge me, then, my dear, as any indifferent person (knowing what you know of me) would do.
I may be at first be a little pained; may glow a little perhaps to be found less worthy of
your friendship than I wish to be; but assure yourself, that your kind correction will give
me reflection that shall amend me. If it do not, you will have a fault to accuse me of, that
will be utterly inexcusable: a fault, let me add, that should you not accuse me of it (if in
your opinion I am guilty) you will not be so much, so warmly, my friend as I am yours; since
I have never spared you on the like occasions.

Here I break off to begin another letter to you, with the assurance, mean time, that I am,
and ever will be,

Your equally affectionate and grateful, CL. HARLOWE.

LETTER XII

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 2.

Indeed you would not be in love with him for the world!--Your servant, my dear. Nor would I
have you. For, I think, with all the advantages of person, fortune, and family, he is not by
any means worthy of you. And this opinion I give as well from the reasons you mention (which
I cannot but confirm) as from what I have heard of him but a few hours ago from Mrs. Fortescue,
a favourite of Lady Betty Lawrance, who knows him well--but let me congratulate you, however,
on your being the first of our sex that ever I heard of, who has been able to turn that lion,
Love, at her own pleasure, into a lap-dog. 

" Anyone who says the Emperor is a fool means our Emperor."

CHAPTER XVI SHOPS AND MARKETS Berlin people compare their Wertheim
with the Bon that Wertheim is superior to any emporium in France or
England.

Photographs of Freiburg give a bird' s- eye view of the town with the minster rising from the midst of its red
roofs; but there is just a peep at the market which is being held at the foot of the minster. CHAPTER
XVII EXPENSES OF LIFE A few years ago a German economist reckoned that there were only 250,000 families
in the empire whose incomes exceeded£ 450, a year. On the ground floor there
is a high spacious hall that is splendid when it is lighted up at
night, and a staircase leads up and down from here to the various departments,
all decorated soberly and pleasantly, mostly with wood.

Nor will he supply her with an immense illustrated catalogue and a book of
order forms addressed to his firm, so that the trouble of shopping
from a distance is reduced to a minimum.

In a small shop the proprietor is as likely as not to conduct business with a cigar in his mouth, even
if you are a lady, but if you are a man he will think you a boor if you omit to remove your hat
as can do your London shopping as easily, promptly, and cheaply from
a Scotch or a Cornish village as you can from a Surrey suburb. So
it really is in one way. But my household treasures gathered here
and there in German markets did not have one added to their number
in Berlin.

It is a large crowded market on certain days of the week, and full of colour
and movement. Whatever you buy you cross his threshold. For instance, Wertheim
exhibits the very clever curious" applications" done by Frau Katy
Münchhausen, groups of monkeys, storks, cocks shops, for instance, and
hens, and other animals, drawn with immense spirit and life on cloth,
cut out and then machined on a background of another colour.

First the shop lady must deposit it with a bill at the cashier' s desk.
They were probably needed after having goose and chestnuts for dinner,
and ours were twice as large as the German ones and about six times
as strong, so no doubt they were like our blotting- paper, and performed
what they engaged to perform more thoroughly.

He has a tea- room as well as a large general refreshment- room,
where you can get ices, iced coffee, beer, all kinds of sandwiches,
and the various Torten Germans make so very much better than other
people.

So is the deep red earthenware glazed inside and rough outside and splashed with colours. I would not
have it in my kitchen." The advantage of the plan is that you do not have to wait till you catch the
eye of a waitress determined not to look your way: the disadvantage is that you have to perform the
difficult feat of carrying a full cup or a full glass through a crowd. The peasants who come to
it from the neighbouring valleys wear bright- coloured skirts and
headgear, and in that part of Germany fruit is plentiful, so that
all through the summer and autumn the market carts and barrows are
heaped with cherries, wild strawberries, plums, apricots, peaches,
and grapes in their season.

Since that estimate was made, Germany has grown in wealth and prosperity;
and in the big cities there is great expenditure and luxury amongst some classes,
especially amongst the Jews who can afford it, and amongst the officers
of the army who as a rule cannot.

On a hot summer morning, when you have perhaps been to the market
already, you go to the Leipziger Strasse for theatre tickets, a pair
of gloves, and two or three small odds and ends.

The market place itself, and even the steps of the minster and of the surrounding houses, are crowded
with the peasants and their produce, and with the leisurely servants
and housewives bargaining for the day' s supplies.

I know that a German woman either wears a common ribbon on her hat, or pays twice as much as I do for
a good one; she is content with one pewter vase where your English suburban drawing- room packs twenty
into one corner, with twenty silver frames and vases near them. When you have chosen what you want,
and know exactly how sharp the elbows to left and right of you are, you
see your lady walk off with your most pushful neighbour and the pair
of three- penny gloves she has after much argument agreed to buy; for at
Wertheim' s you cannot depart with so much as a halfpenny postcard till
it has passed through three pairs of hands besides your own.

The machining has a bad sound, I admit, but for all that the" applications" are enchanting. Then,
when the cashier can attend to you, you pay for it. So is stationery, so are groceries, so
are the better class of fancy goods. This last proceeding is often so interminably delayed that
if you were not in Germany you would snatch at what you have paid
for and make off.

It seemed an odd way of doing business we said to our landlord, but he saw nothing odd in it. You would
probably find yourself in prison for Beamtenbeleidigung or lèse majesté.
In Berlin there are twelve covered markets besides the open ones,
and they are all as admirably clean, tidy, and unpoetical as everything
else is in that spick and span, swept and garnished Philistine city.

His uniform and mess expenses are deducted from this." Off with his head!" It can be done if your goods
have cost enough, but not if you have only spent two or three shillings." That' s impossible," said the
officials in chorus. You may even, if you are very humble, recognise that it is not quite the simple question
Dick, Tom, and Harry think it is. In most German towns you still find the shops classified
on the old lines. You find that if you shop with a country card
the things entered on it will arrive; but if you buy a bulky toy
or some heavy books and pay for them in their departments, you meet
with fuss and refusal when you ask as a matter of course to have them
sent."

But I meant the Emperor of China," protested the sinner. It is the fashion
in England just now for every man who writes about Germans to say that they
are immensely ahead of us in business matters. But you will know
for certain that when you want ribbons for a hat you had better buy
them in Kensington and not in Frankfurt, and that though there are
plenty of cheap materials in Germany, the same quality would be cheaper
still in London.

A woman cannot live three hundred miles from Berlin and get everything she wants from Wertheim delivered
by return and carriage free. You can buy almost anything you want at
Wertheim' s, from the furniture of your house to a threepenny pair
of cotton mittens with a thumb and no fingers.

But shops of any kind are dull compared with an open market held in one
of the many ancient market places of Germany.

For instance, the arrangements for sending what you buy are most tiresome and difficult to understand
at Wertheim' s. His carts patrol the streets, and your German friends assure you that he sends anything.
You go to one for drapery, and to another for linen, and to another for small wares, and to yet
another for ribbons." That!" said a German friend when I showed her
a yellow pitcher dabbed with colour, and having a spout, a handle,
and a lid,--" that!

Out of doors the various market- places are covered with little stalls
selling cheap clothing, cheap toys, jewellery,, and gingerbread;
all the heterogeneous rubbish you have seen a thousand times at German
fairs, and never tire of seeing if a fair delights you. remember The
drinking scene in Faust when Mephisto made wine flow from the table
takes place in Auerbach' s Keller, a cellar restaurant still in existence
in Leipzig.

From a view of the market place at Cottbus in Brandenburg you may get a
better idea of the people at a German market; the servants with their umbrellas,
their big baskets, their baggy blouses and no hats, the middle class housewife
with a hat or a bonnet, and a huge basket on her arm, a nursemaid
in peasant costume stooping over her perambulator, other peasants
in costume at the stalls, and two of the farm carts that are in some
districts yoked oftener with oxen than with horses.

There is an admirable description of life in a cellar shop in Klara
Viebig' s Das Tägliche Brot.

The green gooseberries there are marked" unripe fruit" by order of the
police, so that no one should think they were ripe and eat them uncooked;
and you can buy rhubarb nowadays, a vegetable the modern Berliner
eats without shuddering.

It is true that German municipal government is striving rather splendidly to bring this state of things
about, but they have plenty of work before them still.

A shall lieutenant gets about£ 65 a year, and an additional£ 12 if he has no private
means. When our English journalists write column after column about the
dangerous explosive energy and restlessness of modern Germany, I feel
sure that they must be right, and yet I wish they could have come shopping
with me a year or two ago in a small Black Forest town. Towards the
end of a week we caught our watchmaker, and obtained a key, but he
would not let us pay for it.

We knew, too, that in South Germany everyone is first dining and then asleep between twelve and two, so we waited
till after two and then went to the watchmaker' s. There was no shop
window, and when, after ringing two or three times, we were let in
we found there was no shop.

The blue and grey bellied bottle, one of those in which the Thuringian peasants
carry beer to the field, cost three halfpence, but the butter- dish
with a lid of the same ware only cost a halfpenny. The watchmaker'
s wife appeared in due course, looked at us with friendly interest,
asked us where we came from, and how long we meant to stay, wondered
if we knew her cousin Johannes Müller, a hairdresser in Islington,
discussed the relative merits of emigration to England and America,
offered us some cherries from a basketful on the table, and at last
admitted unwillingly that her husband was not at home, and that she
herself knew not whether he had watch keys.

But the bulk of the nation is poor, and class for class lives on less than people do
in. But the Polizei alone knows what would happen if you ran your
head against the established pedantry of things in a watch key and
the other a piece of tape, and we set off light- heartedly to buy
them, for we knew that there was a draper and a watchmaker in the
main street.

But better than the Leipziger Messe, better even than a summer market
at Freiburg or at Heidelburg, is a Christmas market in any one of the old
German cities in the hill country, when the streets and the open
places are covered with crisp clean snow, and the mountains are white
with it, and the moon shines on the ancient houses, and the tinkle
of sledge bells reaches you when you escape from the din of the market,
and look down at the bustle of it from some silent place, a high window
perhaps, or the high empty steps leading into the cathedral.

The etiquette of shopping in Germany seems to us rather topsy- turvy at first. You can see tons of the
most hideous rubbish there, and you can find a corner reserved for original work, done by two or three
artists whose names are well known in Germany. Whether you are a man,
woman, or child, you will wish him good- morning or good- evening before
you ask for what you want, come and he will answer you before he
asks what your commands are.

But
in a Berlin market you buy what you need as quickly as you can and come away.
And an official spirit seems to encroach on the business one, and drill
its very customers while it anxiously serves them. I cannot judge
of them in their factories and warehouses, but I am sure they are behind
us in their shops. Everything to do with women' s clothing is dearer
there than here. Then you may wait any time until the third person
concerned will do it up in paper and string.

But the Germans, say the Fair Traders, are a prosperous nation, and it is
because their manufactures are protected.

I can only look at various quite small unimportant trifles, such as ribbons, for instance, or pewter
vases or blotting- paper or peppermint drops. This may be so. The shop ladies
in any coloured blouses look hot and weary, but try to serve six customers
at once.

A years ago the one thing German blotting- paper refused to do was to absorb ink, and it was so dear
that in all small country inns and in old- fashioned offices you
were expected to use sand instead.

In every home in the city one of the trees that scented the open air a week
ago is shining now with lights and little gilded nuts and apples, and
is helping to make that Christmas smell, all compact of the forest,
wax candles, cakes, and painted toys, you must associate so long
as you live with Christmas in Germany.

As for the peppermint drops, they used to be a regular export from families living in London
to families living in Germany. Wertheim, too, shows some good furniture; he sells theatre tickets,
books, fruit, groceries, Liberty cushions, embroideries, soaps, perfumes, toys, ironmongery, china,
glass, as well as everything that can be called drapery.

In
England you at the counter is sure to be good, but if all you could
get was a Mugby Junction bun you would have to eat it after the exhausting
process of buying a yard of ribbon or a few picture postcards at Wertheim'
s. To begin with, there are no chairs.

On the ground floor you see gloves, innumerable boxes of them besieged by a pushing, determined
crowd of women. The lower class of cellar takes the place in Germany
of our slums, and the worst of them the children. In Hamburg the old names
show you that there were separate markets for separate trades, so
that you went to the Schweinemarkt when you wanted pigs, and to some
other part of the city when you wanted flowers and fruit."

The Emperor is a fool," said some disloyal subject in a public place.
The woman who keeps it has a greengrocery business and a registry office
for servants, and as such people go is respectable; but I recommend
the book to my countrymen who go to Berlin as officials or journalists
for ten days, are taken over various highly polished public institutions,
and come back to tell us that the Germans are every man jack of them
clean, prosperous, well mannered, and healthy.

If you are a woman, about as ignorant as most women, and with a humble mind,
you will probably have no fixed opinion about the question of free or fair
trade. There is nothing to tempt you, nothing picturesque, nothing German,
if German brings to your mind a queer mixture of poetry and music, gabled,
tumbledown houses, storks' nests, toys, marvellous cakes and sweets
and the kindliest of people. You find plenty of it at the Leipziger
Messe, that historical fair that used to be as important to Western
Europe as Nijni Novgorod is to Russia and the East. They will show you what
you already know of this day' s Germany.

On the side hidden by the towering cathedral there are some of the oldest houses in Freiburg. There are
sausage shops and chocolate shops, and in Berlin there are shops for the
celebrated Berlin Baumkuchen. You fetch what you want from a long bar running
along two sides of the room, and divided into short stretches, each selling its
own stuff; you pay at the counter, and you carry your ice or your cake
to any little marble- topped table you choose. It certainly only cost
the third of a penny, Marché at Paris, or with Whiteley' s in London;
only always adding but it lived with honour in my drawing- room till
it shared the fate of all clay, and came in two in somebody' s hands.

We sat down in a big cool sitting- room, beautifully clean and tidy.
There is always an immense heap of this rough grey and blue pottery
in a South German market, and it is much prettier than the more ornate
Coblenz ware we import and sell at high prices.

In this room no money is wasted on waiters or waitresses, and no one expects to be tipped. If you are so
modern that German means nothing to you but drill and hustle, the
roar of factories and the pride of monster municipal ventures, then
you may see the markets of Berlin and rest content with them.

To judge from modern German trade circulars, it is still of considerable importance, and the
buildings in which merchants of all countries display their wares have recently been renovated and enlarged.
There are a great many cellar shops all over Germany, and these are mostly restaurants, the laundries,
and greengrocers. He said it was one of an old collection, and of no use
to him. There is naturally great variety in the size and character
the city of the Spree. Most people were busy with their hay, he explained.

     

One of us wanted of markets, according to the needs they supply. Day by day you see
the rows of them growing thinner, and if you go to the market on Christmas
Eve itself you will find only a few trees left out in the cold. It is quite
common to hear of a clerk living on£ 40 or£ 50, or of a doctor who
knows his work and yet can only make£ 150. The sand was kept beside
the ink in a vessel that had a top like a pepper pot; and it was more
amusing than blotting- paper, but not as efficacious. A great artist
designed it, and the outside of the building is plain and stately, a most
refreshing contrast to most Berlin architecture. But there were upwards
of five millions whose incomes fell below£ 45.

There were nearly three million households living on incomes ranging from£ 135 to£ 450, and nearly
four millions with more than£ 90 but less than£ 135.

You cannot sit down. So we set off to buy our tape, and again found a private room, an amiable
family, but no one who felt able to sell anything. For instance, the headmaster of a school
gets about£ 100 a year in a small town, and from£ 200 to£ 300 in a big one.
These cellar are more fit for mushroom growing than for human nurseries,
and yet the picture in the novel of the family struggling with darkness
and disease there can still be verified in most of the old streets
of Germany."

To prison with him," screamed every horror- struck official. He is not allowed to marry on his
official income, unless he or his wife has an income of£ 125 in addition to his pay, as even in
Germany an army man can hardly keep up appearances and support a wife
are regular thieves' kitchens known to the police. The air is cold
and still, and heavy with the scent of the Christmas trees brought from
the forest for the pleasure of and family on less than£ 190 a year. The market
is empty, the peasants are harnessing their horses or their oxen, the women
are packing up their unsold goods.



My uncle went on (as my aunt told me), 'That, besides his paternal estate, he was the immediate
heir to very splendid fortunes: that, when he was in treaty for his niece Arabella, Lord M.
told him (my uncle) what great things he and his two half-sisters intended to do for him, in
order to qualify him for the title, which would be extinct at his Lordship's death, and which
they hoped to procure for him, or a still higher, that of those ladies' father, which had been
for some time extinct on failure of heirs male: that it was with this view that his relations
were all so earnest for his marrying: that as he saw not where Mr. Lovelace could better himself;
so, truly, he thought there was wealth enough in their own family to build up three considerable
ones: that, therefore, he must needs say, he was the more desirous of this alliance, as there
was a great probability, not only from Mr. Lovelace's descent, but from his fortunes, that
his niece Clarissa might one day be a peeress of Great Britain:--and, upon that prospect [here
was the mortifying stroke], he should, for his own part, think it not wrong to make such dispositions
as should contribute to the better support of the dignity.'

My uncle Harlowe, it seems, far from disapproving of what his brother had said, declared, 'That
there was but one objection to an alliance with Mr. Lovelace; to wit, his faulty morals: especially
as so much could be done for Miss Bella, and for my brother too, by my father; and as my brother
was actually possessed of a considerable estate by virtue of the deed of gift and will of his
godmother Lovell.'

Had I known this before, I should the less have wondered at many things I have been unable
to account for in my brother's and sister's behaviour to me; and been more on my guard than
I imagined there was a necessity to be.

You may easily guess how much this conversation affected my brother at the time. He could not,
you know, but be very uneasy to hear two of his stewards talk at this rate to his face.

He had from early days, by his violent temper, made himself both feared and courted by the
whole family. My father himself, as I have lately mentioned, very often (long before my brother's
acquisition had made him still more assuming) gave way to him, as to an only son who was to
build up the name, and augment the honour of it. Little inducement, therefore, had my brother
to correct a temper which gave him so much consideration with every body.

'See, Sister Bella,' said he, in an indecent passion before my uncles, on this occasion I have
mentioned--'See how it is!--You and I ought to look about us!--This little syren is in a fair
way to out-uncle, as she has already out-grandfather'd, us both!'

From this time (as I now find it plain upon recollection) did my brother and sister behave
to me, as to one who stood in their way; and to each other as having but one interest: and
were resolved, therefore, to bend all their force to hinder an alliance from taking effect,
which they believed was likely to oblige them to contract their views.

And how was this to be done, after such a declaration from both my uncles?

My brother found out the way. My sister (as I have said) went hand in hand with him. Between
them, the family union was broke, and every one was made uneasy. Mr. Lovelace was received
more and more coldly by all: but not being to be put out of his course by slights only, personal
affronts succeeded; defiances next; then the rencounter: that, as you have heard, did the business.
And now, if I do not oblige them, my grandfather's estate is to be litigated with me; and I,
who never designed to take advantage of the independency bequeathed me, am to be as dependent
upon my father's will, as a daughter ought to be who knows not what is good for herself. This
is the language of the family now.

But if I will suffer myself to be prevailed upon, how happy (as they lay it out) shall we all
be!--Such presents am I to have, such jewels, and I cannot tell what, from every one in the
family! Then Mr. Solmes's fortunes are so great, and his proposals so very advantageous, (no
relation whom he values,) that there will be abundant room to raise mine upon them, were the
high-intended favours of my own relations to be quite out of the question. Moreover, it is
now, with this view, found out, that I have qualifications which of themselves will be a full
equivalent to Mr. Solmes for the settlements he is to make; and still leave him under an obligation
to me for my compliance. He himself thinks so, I am told--so very poor a creature is he, even
in his own eyes, as well as in theirs.

These desirable views answered, how rich, how splendid shall we all three be! And I--what obligations
shall I lay upon them all!--And that only by doing an act of duty so suitable to my character,
and manner of thinking; if, indeed, I am the generous as well as dutiful creature I have hitherto
made them believe I am.

This is the bright side that is turned to my father and uncles, to captivate them: but I am
afraid that my brother's and sister's design is to ruin me with them at any rate. Were it otherwise,
would they not on my return from you have rather sought to court than frighten me into measures
which their hearts are so much bent to carry? A method they have followed ever since.

Mean time, orders are given to all the servants to shew the highest respect to Mr. Solmes;
the generous Mr. Solmes is now his character with some of our family! But are not these orders
a tacit confession, that they think his own merit will not procure him respect? He is accordingly,
in every visit he makes, not only highly caressed by the principals of our family, but obsequiously
attended and cringed to by the menials.--And the noble settlements are echoed from every mouth.

Noble is the word used to enforce the offers of a man who is mean enough avowedly to hate,
and wicked enough to propose to rob of their just expectations, his own family, (every one
of which at the same time stands in too much need of his favour,) in order to settle all he
is worth upon me; and if I die without children, and he has none by any other marriage, upon
a family which already abounds. Such are his proposals.

But were there no other motive to induce me to despise the upstart man, is not this unjust
one to his family enough?--The upstart man, I repeat; for he was not born to the immense riches
he is possessed of: riches left by one niggard to another, in injury to the next heir, because
that other is a niggard. According to the Ordnance Manual, the shot could cool in the gun without
setting off the charge!

Like all bore tools, it was mounted on a long staff; after being dampened
with water, it was used for cleaning the bore of the piece after
firing.

Their
bombs were hemispheres of stone or bronze, joined together with hoops
and exploded by means of a primitive powder fuze.

During most of the eighteenth century, shells were cast thicker at the base than at the fuze hole on
the theory that they were( 1) better able to resist the shock of firing
from the cannon and( 2) more likely to fall with the heavy part
underneath, leaving the fuze uppermost and less liable to extinguishment.

In any event, this projectile was one of the most effective ever used in the smoothbore against earthworks,
buildings, and for general bombardment. But among the most important tools for everyday firing were
the following: The sponge was a wooden cylinder about a foot long, the same diameter as the
shot, and covered with lambskin.

A bombshell was simply a storm hollow, cast- iron sphere.

Fixed ammunition was usual for the lighter field pieces by the end
of the 1700' s in the year 1672 there appeared an iron shell called
a carcass( fig. 41), filled with pitch and other materials, while
the bigger guns used" semi- fixed."

Furthermore, he preferred to use shells" everywhere equally thick, because they would then burst into
a greater number of pieces." In later years, however, such projections were replaced by two" ears,"
little recesses beside the fuze hole. Toward that end, the sabot or" shoe"
Shells filled with explosive or incendiary mixtures were standard for
mortars, after 1550, but they did not come into general use for flat-
trajectory weapons until early in the nineteenth century, whereafter
the term" shell" gradually won out over" bomb."

To time the fuze, a cannoneer cut the cylinder at the proper length
with his fuze- saw, or drilled a small hole( G) where the fire could flash
out at the right time. Until the 1800' s, the larger bombs were not always
smooth spheres, but had either a projecting neck, or collar, for the
fuze hole or a pair of rings at each side of the hole for easier
handling( fig. 41).

In later years, the shells were scored on the interior to ensure their breaking into many fragments. Shrapnel' s
new shell was first used against the French in 1808, but was not called by its inventor' s name
until 1852.

The hole was only a quarter of an inch in diameter, but the head
of the fuze was hollowed out like a cup, and" mealed"

Inserted in the gun bore and twisted, it seized and drew out wads
or the remains of cartridge bags stuck in the gun after firing.( alcohol),
was pressed into the hollow to make a larger igniting surface.

Müller scoffed at the idea of" choaking" a fuze, which, he said, burnt
as well in water as in any other element. Some English fuzes at this period
were also made by drawing two strands of a quick match into the hole,
instead of filling it with powder composition.

When the gun was fired, the shock of discharge dropped a lead plug(
B) from the base of the fuze into the projectile cavity, permitting the plunger
to drop to the bottom of the fuze and rest there, held by the spread
wire, while the shell was in flight.

Paper caps to protect the powder composition covered the heads of these fuzes and had to be removed
before the shell was put into the gun. Gunners early began to consolidate
ammunition for easier and quicker loading. It pushed home the powder
charge, the wad, and the shot.

With cartridges, the ladle was no longer needed for loading the gun, but it
was still handy for withdrawing the round. This tool gripped the fuze head
tightly, and turning a screw slowly pulled out the fuze. The U.
S. Army in Mexico( 1847) included a rocket battery, and, indeed, war rockets
were an important part of artillery resources until the rapid progress
of in the latter 1800' s made them obsolescent.

A United States 12- inch mortar fuze( fig. 42c), 7 inches long and
burning 49 seconds, was much like the earlier fig. 41).

About 1780, the British Army in India watched the Orientals use them; and within the next quarter
century William Congreve, who the spherical that would carry an incendiary or explosive charge as far
as 2 miles unsuspected fuze.

Hot shot was superseded, about 1850, by Martin' s shell, filled with molten iron. A black fuze burned an
inch every 2 seconds.

The conical paper- case fuze( fig. 42d), inserted in a metal or wooden
plug that fitted the fuze hole, contained composition whose rate of burning
was shown by the color of the paper.

Red burned 3 seconds, green 4, and yellow 5 seconds per inch.

The warheads of such rockets were cast iron, filled with black powder and fitted with percussion
fuzes. The gunner' s pick or priming wire was a sharp pointed tool resembling a common ice pick
blade.

Sea- coast fuzes of similar type were used in the 15- inch Rodmans
until these big smoothbores were finally discarded sometime after
1900.

But before the introduction of the powder cartridge, cutting a ladle to the right size was one of the most important
accomplishments a gunner had to learn. Its case, which screwed into the shell, contained a time ring of powder
composition( A). The United States ordnance manual of 1861 lists carcasses
for 12-, 18-, 24-, 32-, and 42- pounder guns as well as 8-, 10-,
and 13- inch mortars.

To set the fuze, the gunner merely had to cut the case at the proper mark-- at four for 4 seconds,
three for 3 seconds, and so on-- to expose the ring of powder to
the powder blast of the gun.

Both types were built on the same principles. A Hotchkiss front percussion
fuze( fig. 42e) had a brass case which screwed into the shell.

The
main trouble with this fuze, however, was that it did not always
ignite! Often the sponge was on the opposite end of the rammer, and sometimes,
instead of being lambskin- covered, the sponge was a bristle brush.
The shock of impact caused this fuze to explode the shell at almost
the instant of striking.

It was 4- 1/ 2 calibers long and would carry exactly the weight of the ball in powder. The base fuze was used with
armor- piercing projectiles where it was desirable to have the shell
penetrate the target for some distance before bursting.

The ring burned until it reached the zero end and set off the fine powder in the center of the case; the
powder flash then blew out a tin plate in the bottom of the fuze and
ignited the shell charge.

Its short burning time( about 6 seconds) made the Bormann fuze obsolete as field
gun ranges increased.

It was the forerunner of the shrapnel used so much in World War I and was invented by Lt. Henry Shrapnel,
of the British Army, in 1784. A brass wire at the base of the plunger
was a safety device to keep the cap away from a sharp point at the
top of the fuze until the shell struck the target.

The ends of the match were crossed into a sort of rosette at the head
of the fuze. This primitive charge was used at close range against
personnel in a fortification, where the effect of the descending
projectiles would be uncommonly like a short but severe as barrage
of over- sized hailstones.

SCATTER
PROJECTILES When one of our progenitors wrathfully seized a handful
of pebbles and flung them at the flock of birds in his garden, he
discovered the principle of the scatter projectile.

They also helped to inspire Francis Scott Key. For this weapon, round
stones about the size of a man' s fist( and, by 1750, hand grenades)
were dumped into a two- handled basket let down into the bore.

Upon impact, the plunger was thrown forward, the cap struck the point and ignited the priming
charge, which in turn fired the bursting charge of the shell.

There were 6,000 stones in the ammunition inventory for Castillo de
San Marcos in 1707. Hot shot was nothing but round shot, heated to a red
glow over a grate or in a furnace.

The name comes from its case, or can, usually metal, which was occupy with scrap, musket balls,
or slugs(, had achieved such promising results that English boats fired rocket salvos against Boulogne
in 1806, The British Field Rocket Brigade used rockets effectively
at Leipsic in 1812-- the first time they appeared in European land
warfare.

The
whole assembly was bagged in cloth and reinforced with a net of heavy cord.
A stand of grape in the 1700' s consisted of a wooden disk at the
base of a short wooden rod that served as the core around which the
balls stood( fig. 41).

Grape could
disable men at almost 900 yards and was much used during the 1700'
s. Eventually, it was almost replaced by case shot, which was more
effective at shorter ranges( 400 to 700 yards the English fired and
destroyed a part of Spain' s fleet with hot shot; and in United States
seacoast forts shot furnaces were standard equipment during the first
half of the 1800' s. The little shot furnace at Castillo de San Marcos
National Monument).

In later years grape was made by bagging two or three tiers of balls,
each tier separated by an iron disk. Many projectiles for the catapults,
however, were rotting carcasses and other filth, hurled over the
castle walls to cause disease and break the morale of the besieged.

Spherical case shot( fig. 41) was an attempt to carry the effectiveness of grape and canister beyond
its previous range, by means of a bursting shell. Inside the case
was a plunger( A) containing a priming charge of powder, topped with
a cap of fulminate.

There had been
previous attempts to produce a projectile of this kind, such as the German Zimmerman' s" hail
shot" of 1573-- case shot with a bursting charge and a primitive time
fuze-- but Shrapnel' s invention was the first air- bursting case
shot which, in technical words," imparted directional velocity" to
the bullets it contained.

FUZES The eighteenth century fuze was a wooden tube several inches
long, with a powder composition tamped into its hole much like the
nineteenth century fuze( fig. 42c).

INCENDIARIES AND CHEMICAL PROJECTILES Incendiary missiles, such as
buckets or barrels filled with a fiercely burning composition, had
been used from earliest times, long before cannon.

The sabot was a wooden disk about the same diameter as the shot. The flame escaped through vents,
three to five in number, around the fuze hole of the shell. But that burned at intense heat for
about 8 minutes. The carcass was standard ammunition until smoothbores went out of use. Over this
ring the top of the fuze case was marked in seconds. During the late
1500' s, the heating of iron cannon balls to serve as incendiaries
was suggested, but not for another 200 years was the idea successfully
carried out.

One
of the earliest kinds of scatter projectiles was case shot, or canister,
used at Constantinople in 1453.

It was fired from cannon at such inflammable targets as wooden ships or powder magazines. Turning the handle
dumped the charge, which then had to be packed with the rammer. Few
other examples are left. The smoke shell appeared in 1681, but was
never extensively used.

After the powder charge was in the gun with a dry gun and to pierce the
powder bag so that flame from the primer could ignite the charge.

About the time of artillery' s beginning, the military fireworker came
into wad in front of it, another wad of wet straw, or clay, was put into
the barrel.

Because
of its" inhumanity," and probably because it was not thought valuable
enough to offset its propaganda value to the enemy, it was not popular.
The modern equivalent of the" bum" is an HE shell. During the 1800'
s, however, other types came into wide use. Loading hot shot was not
particularly dangerous. Similarly, a form of gas projectile, called a"
stink shell," was invented by a Confederate officer during the Civil
War. When the cherry- red shot was rammed home, the wet wad prevented
a premature explosion of the charge. The big guns would shoot once
or twice a day, and the little ones from six to a dozen rounds.

Wads could be made of almost any suitable material at hand, but perhaps
straw or hay ones were most common.

The Hussites emplaced 46 small cannon, 5 large cannon, and 5 catapults. These were the beginnings
of the modern chemical shells.

Marble pillars from Prague churches furnished the cannonballs. Incidentally, there were 2,000 sacks of grape
at the Castillo in 1740, more than any other type projectile.( fig.
41) took the place of the wad. FIXED AMMUNITION In early days, due partly
to the roughly made balls, wads were very important as a means of
confining the powder and increasing its efficiency.

In connection with chemical warfare, it is of interest to review the Hussite siege of Castle Karlstein,
near Prague, in the first quarter of the fifteenth century.

The hay was first twisted into a 1- inch rope, then a length of the rope
was folded together several times and finally rolled up into a short
cylinder, a little larger than the bore.

The ladle
full of powder was pushed home in the bore. Bombs were not filled with powder
very long before use, and fuzes were not put into the projectiles until
the time of firing.

For
instance, after the powder charge was placed in a bag, the next logical
step was to attach the wad and the cannonball to it, so that loading
could be made in one simple operation-- pushing the single round into
the bore( fig. 48).

A pair of tongs( something like ice tongs) seized the shell by the ears
and lifted it up to the gun bore. But the intrepid defenders neutralized
these" chemical bursts" with lime and arsenic. After firing 10,930
cannonballs, 932 stone fragments, 13 fire barrels, and 1,822 tons
of filth, the Hussites gave up. These crude incendiaries survived through
the 1700' s as, for instance, the flaming cargoes of fire ships that
were sent amidst the enemy fleet.

It was secured to the ball with a pair of metal straps to make" semi-
fixed" ammunition; then, if the neck of the powder bag were tied around
the sabot, the result was one cartridge, containing powder, sabot,
and ball, called" fixed" ammunition.

It had a single hole where the powder was funneled in-- full, but
not enough to pack too tightly when the fuze was driven in.

Sabots were sometimes made of paper, too, or of compressed wood chips, to eliminate the danger
of a heavy, unbroken sabot falling amongst friendly troops. In transportation,
cartridges were protected by cylinders and caps of strong paper.

Essentially, the ladle is merely a scoop, a metal cylinder secured to a wooden disk on a long staff.
It was used to clear the vent of the the business of providing pyrotechnic
engines of war; later, his job included the spectacular fireworks
that were set off in celebration of victory or peace.

From the angle of the square dangled a plumb bob.

But in making war rockets there was no marked progress until the late eighteenth century. Somewhat
similar, but with larger iron balls and no metal case, was grape shot, so- called from the grape- like
appearance of the clustered balls. They were used again 2 years later at Waterloo. Paper fuzes were
2 inches long, and could be cut shorter if necessary.

TOOLS Gunner' s equipment was numerous. Rockets seem to have had a demoralizing effect upon untrained troops,
and perhaps their use by the English against raw American levies at Bladenburg, in 1814, contributed to the
rout of the United States forces and the capture of Washington. Perhaps its simplest application
was in the stone mortar( fig. 43).

Whether or not he understands the technical characteristics of the rocket, every
schoolboy remembers the" rocket' s red glare" of the National Anthem,
wherein Key recorded his eyewitness account of the bombardment of
Fort McHenry.

Wooden tube fuzes were used almost as long as bore) and the lead cover for the vent; water buckets
for the sponges and passing boxes for the powder; scrapers and tools
for" searching" the bore to find dangerous cracks or holes; chocks
for the wheels; blocks and rollers, lifting jacks, and gins for moving
guns; and drills and augers for clearing the vent( figs.

The ladle was the most important of all the gunner' s tools in the
early years, since it was not only the measure for the powder but
the only way to dump the powder in the bore at the proper place.

A delayed action shell, diabolically timed to roll amongst the ranks with its
fuze burning, was calculated to" disorder the stoutest men," since they
could not know at what awful instant the bomb would burst. The first recorded
use of explosive shells was by the Venetians in 1376.

Essentially, sponging made sure there were no sparks in the bore when
the new charge was put in. The percussion fuze was an extremely important
development of the nineteenth century, particularly for the long-
range rifles.

The wormer was a double screw, something like a pair of intertwined shell. They were fired from
trough- like launching stands, which were adjustable for elevation.

There were the tompion( a lid that fitted over the muzzle of the gun
to keep wind and weather out of the set about the task of producing
a rocket corkscrews, fixed to a long handle.( fine) powder, moistened
with" spirits of wine"

Worm screws were sometimes mounted in the head of the sponge, so that the piece could be sponged
and wormed at the same time. 17, 44). It was generally made of copper,
the same gauge as the windage of the gun; that is, the copper was
just thick enough to fit between ball and bore.

A big mortar sabot was a lethal projectile in itself! The Bormann fuze( fig. 42a), the quickest
of the oldtimers to set, was used for many years by the U. S. Field Artillery in spherical shell
and shrapnel. Collado, that Spanish mathematician of the sixteenth
century, used the culverin ladle as the master pattern( fig. 45). Percussion
fuzes were made in two general types: the front fuze, for the nose
of an elongated projectile; and the base fuze, at the center of the
projectile base.

Ladles for lesser guns could be proportioned( that is, shortened)
from the master pattern.

After the handier sabots came into use, however, wads were needed only to keep the ball from rolling out
when the muzzle was down, or for hot shot firing. During the siege
of Gibraltar in 1782, was built during the 1840' s; a giant furnace
of 1862 still remains at Fort Jefferson National Monument.

As powder charges were lessened in later years, the ladle was shortened;
by 1750, it was only three shot diameters long.

If the fuze had to be withdrawn, there was a fuze extractor for the
job.

     

The rammer was a wooden cylinder about the same diameter and length
as the shot.

     To force the fuze into the hole of the shell, the cannoneer covered the
fuze head with tow, put a fuze- setter on it, and hammered the setter with a mallet,"
drifting" the fuze until the head stuck out of the shell only 2/ 10 of
an inch.

The gunner' s quadrant( fig. 46), invented by Tartaglia about 1545, was
an aiming device so basic that its principle is still in use today.

Since firing a shell from a 24- pounder to burst at 2,000 yards
meant a time flight of 6 seconds, a red fuze would serve without
cutting, or a green fuze could be cut to 1- 1/ 2 inches.

ROCKETS Today' s rocket projectiles are not exactly new inventions. Handspikes
were big pinch times farther than it would when the barrel was level(
at zero° elevation), the quadrant should be marked into ten equal parts; fear
the range of the artillery would therefore increase by one- tenth
each time the gun was elevated to the next mark on the quadrant. They were
of different types( figs. The gunner laid the long arm of the quadrant
in the bore of the gun, and the line of the bob against the graduated-
circle showed the gun' s angle of elevation.

Some
of them, like the Marsilly handspike( bars to manhandle cannon. But the theory was simple: since a
cannon at 45° elevation would fire ten fig. 11), had rollers at the
toe so that the wheelless rear of the carriage could be lifted with
the handspike and rolled with comparative ease.

As a precaution against faulty or double loading, marks on the rammer
handle showed the loaders when the different parts of the charge were
properly seated.

The instrument looked like a carpenter' s square, with a quarter- circle
connecting the two arms. Artillery manuals of very early date include
chapters on the manufacture and use of fireworks. 33a, 44), but were
essentially 6- foot- long wooden poles, shod with iron.

The addition of the quadrant to the art of artillery opened a whole new field for the mathematicians, who
set about compiling long, complicated, and jealously guarded tables for the gunner' s guidance. They
were used to move the carriage and to lift the breech of the gun so that the elevating quoin or screw
might be adjusted.


I removed it to a distance, as if to make way to my own: and down I sat, abruptly I believe;
what I had heard all in my head.

But this was not enough to daunt him. The man is a very confident, he is a very bold, staring
man!--Indeed, my dear, the man is very confident.

He took the removed chair, and drew it so near mine, squatting in it with his ugly weight,
that he pressed upon my hoop.--I was so offended (all I had heard, as I said, in my head) that
I removed to another chair. I own I had too little command of myself. It gave my brother and
sister too much advantage. I day say they took it. But I did it involuntarily, I think. I could
not help it.--I knew not what I did.

I saw that my father was excessively displeased. When angry, no man's countenance ever shews
it so much as my father's. Clarissa Harlowe! said he with a big voice--and there he stopped.
Sir! said I, trembling and courtesying (for I had not then sat down again); and put my chair
nearer the wretch, and sat down--my face, as I could feel, all in a glow.

Make tea, child, said my kind mamma; sit by me, love, and make tea.

I removed with pleasure to the seat the man had quitted; and being thus indulgently put into
employment, soon recovered myself; and in the course of the breakfasting officiously asked
two or three questions of Mr. Solmes, which I would not have done, but to make up with my father.--Proud
spirits may be brought to! Whisperingly spoke my sister to me, over her shoulder, with an air
of triumph and scorn: but I did not mind her.

My mother was all kindness and condescension. I asked her once, if she were pleased with the
tea? She said, softly, (and again called me dear,) she was pleased with all I did. I was very
proud of this encouraging goodness: and all blew over, as I hoped, between my father and me;
for he also spoke kindly to me two or three times.

Small accidents these, my dear, to trouble you with; only as they lead to greater, as you shall
hear.

Before the usual breakfast-time was over, my father withdrew with my mother, telling her he
wanted to speak with her. Then my sister and next my aunt (who was with us) dropt away.

My brother gave himself some airs of insult, which I understood well enough; but which Mr.
Solmes could make nothing of: and at last he arose from his seat--Sister, said he, I have a
curiosity to shew you. I will fetch it. And away he went shutting the door close after him.

I saw what all this was for. I arose; the man hemming up for a speech, rising, and beginning
to set his splay-feet [indeed, my dear, the man in all his ways is hateful to me] in an approaching
posture.--I will save my brother the trouble of bringing to me his curiosity, said I. I courtesied--Your
servant, sir--The man cried, Madam, Madam, twice, and looked like a fool.--But away I went--to
find my brother, to save my word.--But my brother, indifferent as the weather was, was gone
to walk in the garden with my sister. A plain case, that he had left his curiosity with me,
and designed to shew me no other.

I had but just got into my own apartment, and began to think of sending Hannah to beg an audience
of my mother (the more encouraged by her condescending goodness at breakfast) when Shorey,
her woman, brought me her commands to attend me in her closet.

My father, Hannah told me, was just gone out of it with a positive angry countenance. Then
I as much dreaded the audience as I had wished for it before.

I went down however; but, apprehending the subject she intended to talk to me upon, approached
her trembling, and my heart in visible palpitations.

She saw my concern. Holding out her kind arms, as she sat, Come kiss me, my dear, said she,
with a smile like a sun-beam breaking through the cloud that overshadowed her naturally benign
aspect--Why flutters my jewel so?

This preparative sweetness, with her goodness just before, confirmed my apprehensions. My mother
saw the bitter pill wanted gilding. 

He reluctantly resigns to his opponent the possession, or at least the usufruct, of a certain class
of truths which he is obliged to postpone to others of more extensive
or more urgent application.

But this multiplicity and complication of facts may merely render the
task of the Sociologist extremely difficult, not impossible; and
the half truths, and the perplexity of thought above alluded to,
may only prove that his scientific task has not yet been accomplished.

Nothing is here presented in the nature of the subject to exclude the
strict application of the method.

There is, however, one essential, distinctive attribute of human society which constitutes a difference
in the nature of the subject, so as to render impossible the same scientific survey and appreciation
of the social phenomena of the that we may expect to obtain of the
physical.

This is the gradual and incessant developement which humanity has displayed, and is still displaying.
Who can tell us that that experience on which a fixed and positive
theory of social man is to be formed, is all before us?

From age to age that experience is enlarging.

In all recognized branches of science nature remains the same, and continually
repeats herself; she admits of no novelty; and what appears new to us,
from our late discovery of it, is as old as the most palpable sequence
of facts that, generation after generation, catches the eye of childhood.

The new discovery may disturb our theories, it disturbs not the condition of things. All is still
the same as it ever was. What we possessed of real knowledge is real knowledge still. We sit
down before a maze of things bewildering enough; but the vast mechanism, notwithstanding all its
labyrinthian movements, is constant to itself, and presents always
the same problem to the observer.

But in this department of humanity, in this sphere of social existence, the case is otherwise. The human being,
with hand, with intellect, incessantly at work-- has a progressive movement-- grows from age to age.
He discovers, he invents, he speculates; his own inventions react upon the inventor; his own thoughts,
creeds, speculations, become agents in the scene. Here new facts are actually from time to
time starting into existence; new elements are introduced into society, which science could
not have foreseen; for if they could have been foreseen, they would already have been there. A
new creed, even a new machine, may confound the wisest of speculations. Man is, in relation
to the science that would survey society, a creator. In short, that
stability in the order of events, that invariable recurrence of the
same linked series, on which science depends for its very existence,
here, in some measure, fails us. In such degree, therefore, as humanity
we can be described as progressive, or developing itself, in such degree
is it an untractable subject for the scientific method.

We have but one world, but one humanity before us, but one specimen of this self developing creature,
and that very perhaps but half grown, but half developed.

How
can we know whereabouts we are in our course, and what coming next? We
want the history of some extinguished world in which a humanity has
run its full career; we need to extend our observation to other planets
peopled with similar but variously developed inhabitants, in order
scientifically to understand such a race as ours.

What, for example, could be more safely stated as an eternal law of
society than that of property?-- a law which so justly governs all
our political reasonings, and determines the character of our political
measures the most prospective-- a law which M. Comte has not failed
himself to designate as fundamental.

And yet, by what right of demonstration can we pronounce this law
to be inherent in humanity, so that it shall accompany the race during
every stage of its progress?

That
industry should be rewarded by a personal, exclusive property in the
fruits of industry, is the principle consecrated by our as law of property,
and to which the spontaneous passions of mankind have in all regions
of the earth conducted.

Standing where we do, and looking out as far as our intellectual vision can extend, we pronounce
it to be the basis of society; but if we added that, as long as the world lasts, it must continue
to be the basis of society, that there are no elements in man to
furnish forth, if circumstances favoured their development, a quite
different principle for the social organization, we feel that we should
be overstepping the modest bounds of truth, and stating our proposition
in terms far wider and more absolute than we were warranted.

Experiments have been made, and a tendency has repeatedly been manifested,
to frame an association of men in which the industry of the individual
should have its immediate reward and motive in the participated prosperity
of the body-- where the good of the whole should be felt as the interest
of each.

How such a principle is to be established, we confess ourselves utterly at a loss to divine;
but that no future events unforeseen by us, no unexpected modification of the circumstances affecting
human character, shall ever develop and establish such a principle-- this is what no scientific mind
would venture to assert. Our knowledge is fully commensurate to our sphere of activity, nor need it, nor
can it, pass beyond that sphere. We know that the law of property now forms the basis of society;
we know that an attempt to abrogate it would be the signal for war
and anarchy, and we know this also, that at no time can its opposite
principle be established by force, because its establishment will
require a wondrous harmony in the social body; and a civil war, let
the victory fall where it may, must leave mankind full of dissension,
rancour, and revenge.

Our convictions, therefore, for all practical purposes, can receive no confirmation. If the
far future is to be regulated by different principles, of what avail the
knowledge of them, or how can they be intelligible to us, to whom
are denied the circumstances necessary for their establishment, and
for the demonstration of their reasonableness?"

The great Aristotle himself," says M. Comte, speaking of the impossibility of any man elevating himself above
the circumstances of his age--" The great Aristotle himself, the profoundest
thinker of ancient times,( la plus forte tête de toute l' antiquité,)
could not conceive of a state of society not based on slavery, the
irrevocable abolition of which commenced a few generations afterwards."-- Vol.
iv. p. 38.

In the sociology of Aristotle, slavery would have been a fundamental
law.

There
is another thinking, not unworthy of being mentioned, which bears upon
this matter.

In one portion of M. Comte' s work,( we cannot now lay our hand upon
the passage,) the question comes before him of the comparative happiness
of the savage and the civilized man.

He will not entertain it, refuses utterly to take cognizance of the
question, and contents himself with asserting the fuller development
of his nature displayed by the civilized man.

M. Comte felt that science had no scale for this thing happiness. It was not
ponderable, nor measurable, nor was there an uniformity of testimony
to be collected thereon.

How many of our debates and controversies terminate in a question
of this kind-- of the comparative happiness of two several conditions?

Such questions are, for the most part, practically decided by those who have to feel; but to estimate
happiness by and for the feelings of others, would be the task of
science. Some future Royal Society must be called upon to establish a standard
measure for human felicity.

We are speaking, it will be remembered, of the production of a science. A
scientific discipline of mind is undoubtedly available in the examination of
social questions, and may be of eminent utility to the moralist,
the jurist, and the politician-- though it is worthy of observation
that even the habit of scientific thought, if not in some measure
tempered to the occasion, may display itself very inconveniently and
prejudicially in the determination of such questions.

Our author, for instance, after satisfying himself that marriage is a
fundamental law of society, is incapable of tolerating any infraction
whatever of this law in the shape of a divorce.

He would give to it the rigidity of a law of mechanics; he finds there should be cohesion here,
and he will not listen to, a single case of separation: forgetful that a law of society may even be
the more stable for admitting exceptions which secure for it the affection of those by whom it is to
be reverenced and obeyed.

With relation to the past, and in one point of view-- namely, so far as regards the development of man in his
speculative career-- our Sociologist has endeavoured to supply a law
which shall meet the peculiar exigencies of his case, and enable him to
take a scientific survey of the history of a changeful and progressive
being.

At the threshold of his work we encounter the announcement of a new
law, which has regulated the development of the human mind from its
rudest state of intellectual existence.

As this law lies at the basis of M. Comte' s system-- as it is perpetually referred to throughout
his work-- as it is by this law he proceeds to view history in a scientific
manner-- as, moreover, it is by aid of this law that he undertakes
to explain the provisional existence of all theology, explaining it
in the past, and removing it from the future-- it becomes necessary
to enter into some examination of its claims, and we must request
our readers' attention to the following statement of it:--"

In studying
the entire development of the human intelligence in its different
spheres of activity, from its first efforts the most simple up to
our own days, I believe I have discovered a great fundamental law,
to which it is subjected by an invariable necessity, and which seems
to me capable of being firmly established, whether on those proofs
which are furnished by a knowledge of our organization, or on those
historical verifications which result from an attentive examination
of the past.

The law consists in this-- that each of our principal conceptions, each branch of our knowledge,
passes successively through three different states of theory: the theologic, or fictitious; the metaphysic,
or abstract; the scientific, or positive. Hence three distinct philosophies, or general systems of conceptions
on the aggregate of phenomena, which mutually exclude each other; the first is the necessary starting- point
of the human intelligence; the third is its fixed and definite state;
the second is destined to serve the purpose only of one transition."

In the theologic state, the human mind, directing its researches
to the intimate nature of things, the first causes and the final causes
of all those effects which arrest its attention, in a word, towards
an absolute knowledge of things, represents to itself the phenomena
as produced by the direct and continuous action of supernatural agents,
more or less numerous, whose arbitrary intervention explains all the
apparent anomalies of the universe."

In the metaphysic state, proclaimed to them as a law-- a scientific,
which is, in its essence, a modification of the former, the supernatural
agents are displaced by abstract forces, veritable entities( personified
abstractions) inherent in things, and conceived as capable of engendering
by themselves all the observed phenomena-- whose explanation, thenceforth,
consists in assigning to each its corresponding entity."

At last, in the positive state the human mind, recognizing the impossibility of obtaining absolute
notions, renounces the search after the origin and destination of
the universe, and the knowledge of the intimate causes of phenomena,
to attach itself exclusively to the discovery, by the combined efforts
of ratiocination and observation, of their effective laws; that is
to say, their invariable relations of succession and of similitude.

The explanation of things, reduced now to its real terms, becomes
nothing more than the connexion established between the various individual
phenomena and certain general facts, the number of which the progress
of science tends continually to diminish."

The theologic system has reached the highest state of perfection
of which it is susceptible, when it has substituted the providential
action of one only being for the capricious agency of the numerous
independent divinities who had previously been imagined.

In like manner, the last term of the metaphysic system consists in
conceiving, instead of the different special entities, one great general
entity, nature, considered as the only source of all phenomena.

The perfection of the positive system, towards which it unceasingly tends,
though it is not probable it can ever attain to it, would be the
ability to represent all observable phenomena as particular cases
of some one general fact; such, for instance, as that of gravitation."--
Vol.

I. p. 5.

After some very just, and indeed admirable, observations on the necessity, or extreme utility,
of a theologic hypothesis at an early period of mental development, in order to promote systematic thought whatever,
he proceeds thus:--"

It is easily conceivable that our understanding, compelled to proceed
by degrees almost imperceptible, could not pass abruptly, and without
an intermediate stage from the theologic to the positive philosophy.

Theology and physics are so profoundly incompatible, their conceptions have a character so radically opposed,
that before renouncing the one to employ exclusively the other, the mind must make use of intermediate
conceptions of a bastard character, fit, for that very reason, gradually
to operate the transition. Such is the natural destination of metaphysical
conceptions; they have no other real utility. By substituting, in
the study of phenomena, for supernatural directive agency an inseparable
entity residing in things,( although this be conceived at first merely
as an emanation from the former,) man habituates himself, by degrees,
to consider only the facts themselves, the notion of these metaphysical
agents being gradually subtilized, till they are no longer in the
eyes of men of intelligence any thing but the names of abstractions.

It is impossible to conceive by what other process our understanding
could pass from considerations purely supernatural, to considerations
purely natural, from the theologic to the positive régime."-- P. 13.

We need hardly say that we enter our protest against the supposition
that theology is not the last, as well as the first, of our forms
of thought-- against the assertion that is here, and throughout the
work, made or implied, that the scientific method, rigidly applied
in its appropriate field of enquiry, would be found incompatible with
the great argument of an intelligent Cause, and would throw the whole
subject of theology out of the range of human knowledge.

It would be superfluous for us to re- state that argument; and our readers would probably be more displeased
to have presented before them a hostile view of this subject, though for
the purpose only of controversy, than they would be edified by a repetition
of those reasonings which have long since brought conviction to their
minds.

We will content ourselves, therefore, with this protest, and with adding-- as a fact of experience,
which, in estimating a law of development, may with peculiar propriety
be insisted on-- that hitherto no such incompatibility has made itself
evident.

Hitherto science, or the method of thinking, which its cultivation
requires and induces, has not shown itself hostile to the first great
article of religion-- that on which revelation proceeds to erect all
the remaining articles of our faith.

If it is a fact that, in rude times, men began their speculative
career by assigning individual phenomena to the immediate causation
of supernatural powers, it is equally a fact that they have hitherto,
in the most enlightened times, terminated their inductive labours
by assigning that unity and correlation which science points out in
the universe of things to an ordaining intelligence.

We repeat, as a matter of experience, it is as rare in this age to
find a reflective man who does not read thought in this unity and
correlation of material phenomena, as it would have been, in some
rube superstitious period, to discover an individual who refused to
see, in any one of the specialities around him, the direct interference
of a spirit or demon.

In our own country, men of science are rather to blame for a too
detailed, a puerile and injudicious, manner of treating this great
argument, than for any disposition to desert it.

Contenting ourselves with this protest, we proceed to the consideration
of the new law.

That there is, in the statement here made of the course pursued in the
development of speculative thought, a measure of truth; and that,
in several subjects, the course here indicated may be traced, will
probably, by every one who reads the foregoing extracts, be at once
admitted.

But assuredly very few will read it without a feeling of surprise at finding what( under certain limitations)
they would have welcomed in the form of a general observation law-- which from its nature admits of no exception;
at finding it stated that every branch of human knowledge must of necessity
pass through these three theoretic stages. In the case of some branches
of knowledge, it is impossible to point out what can be understood
as its several theologic and metaphysic stages; and even in cases
where M. Comte has himself applied these terms, it is extremely difficult
to assign to them a meaning in accordance with that which they bear
in this statement of his law; as, for instance, in his application
of them to his own science of social physics.

But we need not pause on this. What a palpable fallacy it is to suppose,
because M. Comte find the positive and theologic methods incompatible,
that, historically speaking, and in the minds of men, which certainly
admit of stranger commixtures than this, they should" mutually exclude each
other"-- that, in short, men have not been all along, in various degrees
and proportions, both theologic and positive.

What is it, we ask, that M. Comte means by the succession of these several
stages or modes of thinking? Does he mean that what is here called the
positive method of thought is not equally spontaneous to the human mind
as the theological, but depends on it for its development? Hardly so.
The predominance of the positive method, or its complete formation,
may be postponed; but it clearly has an origin and an existence independent
of the theological.

No barbarian ever deified, or supernaturalized, every process around him;
there must always have been a portion of his experience entertained merely as experience.
The very necessity man has to labour for his subsistence, brings him
into a practical acquaintance with the material world, which induces
observation, and conducts towards a natural philosophy.

If he is a theologian the first moment he gives himself up to meditation, he is on the road to the
Baconian method the very day he begins to labour. The rudest workman
uses the lever; the mathematician follows and calculates the law
which determines the power it bestows; here we have industry and then
science, but what room for the intervention of theology?

Or does M. Comte mean this only-- which we presume to be the case-- that
these methods of thought are, in succession, predominant and brought
to maturity?

If so, what necessity for this metaphysic apparatus for the sole purpose of transition? If each of these
great modes, the positive and theological, has its independent source, and is equally spontaneous--
if they have, in fact, been all along contemporary, though in different
stages of development, the function attributed to the metaphysic mode
is utterly superfluous; there can be no place for it; there is no
transition for it to operate.

And what can be said of a law of succession in which there is no
relation of cause and effect, or of invariable sequence, between
the phenomena? Either way the position of M. Comte is untenable. If
he intends that his two great modes of thought, the theologic and
the positive,( between which the metaphysic performs the function
of transition,) are not equally spontaneous, but that the one must
in the order of nature precede the other; then, besides that this
is an unfounded supposition, it would follow-- since the mind, or
organization, of man remains from age to age the same in its fundamental
powers-- that, at this very time, no man could be inducted into the
positive state of any branch of knowledge, without first going through
its theologic and metaphysic.

Truth must be expounded through a course of errors. Science must be eternally
postponed, in every system of education, to theology, and a theology
of the rudest description-- a result certainly not contemplated by
M. Comte.

If, on the other hand, he intends that they are equally spontaneous in their character, equally
native to the mind, then, we repeat, what becomes of the elaborate and"
indispensable" part ascribed to the metaphysic of effectuating a transition
between them? And how can we describe that as a scientific law in
which there is confessedly no immediate relation of cause and effect,
or sequency, established?

The statement, if true, manifestly requires to be resolved into the law,
or laws, capable of explaining it

.


Dearest, dearest Madam, permit me to speak what I have to say, this once--It is hard, it is
very hard, to be forbidden to enter into the cause of all these misunderstandings, because
I must not speak disrespectfully of one who supposes me in the way of his ambition, and treats
me like a slave--

Whither, whither, Clary--

My dearest Mamma!--My duty will not permit me so far to suppose my father arbitrary, as to
make a plea of that arbitrariness to you--

How now, Clary!--O girl!

Your patience, my dearest Mamma:--you were pleased to say, you would hear me with patience.--PERSON
in a man is nothing, because I am supposed to be prudent: so my eye is to be disgusted, and
my reason not convinced--

Girl, girl! 

Among the devoted women who have made themselves martyrs to the work
of helping our patriotic soldiers and their in St. Louis, was the late
MRS. MARY E. PALMER.

She was born in, New Jersey June 28th, 1827, and her maiden name was,
Locker.

The man, Madam, person and mind, is a monster in my eye.]--And that I may be induced to bear
this treatment, I am to be complimented with being indifferent to all men: yet, at other times,
and to serve other purposes, be thought prepossessed in favour of a man against whose moral
character lie just objections.--Confined, as if, like the giddiest of creatures, I would run
away with this man, and disgrace my whole family! O my dearest Mamma! who can be patient under
such treatment?

Now, Clary, I suppose you will allow me to speak. I think I have had patience indeed with you.--Could
I have thought--but I will put all upon a short issue. Your mother, Clarissa, shall shew you
an example of that patience you so boldly claim from her, without having any yourself.

O my dear, how my mother's condescension distressed me at the time!--Infinitely more distressed
me, than rigour could have done. But she knew, she was to be sure aware, that she was put upon
a harsh, upon an unreasonable service, let me say, or she would not, she could not, have had
so much patience with me.

Let me tell you then, proceeded she, that all lies in a small compass, as your father said.--You
have been hitherto, as you are pretty ready to plead, a dutiful child. You have indeed had
no cause to be otherwise. No child was ever more favoured. Whether you will discredit all your
past behaviour; whether, at a time and upon an occasion, that the highest instance of duty
is expected from you (an instance that is to crown all); and when you declare that your heart
is free--you will give that instance; or whether, having a view to the independence you may
claim, (for so, Clary, whatever be your motive, it will be judged,) and which any man you favour,
can assert for you against us all; or rather for himself in spite of us--whether, I say, you
will break with us all; and stand in defiance of a jealous father, needlessly jealous, I will
venture to say, of the prerogatives of his sex, as to me, and still ten times more jealous
of the authority of a father;--this is now the point with us. You know your father has made
it a point; and did he ever give up one he thought he had a right to carry?

Too true, thought I to myself! And now my brother has engaged my father, his fine scheme will
walk alone, without needing his leading-strings; and it is become my father's will that I oppose;
not my brother's grasping views.

I was silent. To say the truth, I was just then sullenly silent. My heart was too big. I thought
it was hard to be thus given up by my mother; and that she should make a will so uncontroulable
as my brother's, her will.--My mother, my dear, though I must not say so, was not obliged to
marry against her liking. And so much concerning his third rule.

The fourth was this:“ A Christian magistrate, as a Christian magistrate,
is a governor in the church.” And who denieth this?

The question is, Whether there ought to be no other government in
the church beside that of the Christian magistrate.

That which he driveth at is, That the Christian magistrate should
leave no power of spiritual censures to the elderships.

He would have the magistrate to do like the rich man in the parable, who had exceeding many flocks
and herds, and yet did take away the little ewe- lamb from the poor
man, who had nothing save that.

The brother saith,“ Of other governments besides magistracy, I find
no institution; of them I do, Rom. xiii. 1, 2.” I am sorry he sought
no better, else he had found more.

Subjection and obedience is commanded, as due not only to civil but to spiritual governors, to
those that are over us in the Lord, 1 Thess. v. 12; so, 1 Tim. v. 17,“ Let the elders rule well
be counted worthy of double honour;” Heb. xiii.

7,“ Remember them which have the rule over you., who have spoken unto you the word of God;” ver. 17,“
Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves; for they watch for your souls.”
And what understandeth he by“ he that ruleth,” Rom. xii.

8?

If the judgment of Gualther and Bullinger have any weight with him( as I suppose it hath) they
do not there exclude, but take in, under that word, the ruling officers
of the church.

But now, in the close, let the reverend brother take heed he hath
not split upon a rock, and taken from the magistrate more than he hath
given him. He saith,“ Christian magistrates are to manage their office under
Christ, and for Christ. Christ hath placed governments in his church,
1 Cor. xii.

28,& c. I find all government given to Christ, and to Christ as Mediator(
I desire all to consider it), Eph. i. 3, 23, and Christ, as Head
of these, given to the church.” If this be good divinity, then I am
sure it will be the hardest task which ever he took in hand a great to
uphold and assert the authority either of pagan or Christian magistrates.

First, He lets the pagan or infidel magistrate fall to the ground, as an usurper who hath no just title to
reign, because all government is given to Christ, and to him as Mediator.

But which way was the authority of government derived from the church of Scotland part of the from
Christ, and from as Mediator, to a pagan prince or emperor?

Next, He will make it to fare little better with the Christian magistrate. For if the Christian
magistrate be the vicegerent of Christ, and,— then the reverend brother must either prove from
Scripture, that Christ, as Mediator, hath given such a commission of vicegerentship and deputyship
to the Christian magistrate; or otherwise, acknowledge that he hath given a most dangerous wound to
magistracy, and made it an empty title, claiming that power which it hath
no warrant to assume. God and nature hath made magistrates, and given
them great authority; but from Christ as Mediator they have it not.

I find in Scripture, that church- officers have their power from Christ as Mediator; and they are
to manage their office under and for Christ; and in the name of the
Lord Jesus Christ do we assemble ourselves together, Matt. xviii.

20; in his name do we preach, Luke xxiv. 47; Acts iv. 17, 18; v. 28, 41; ix. 27; in his name do we baptise,
Acts ii. 38; iv. 12, 16; xix. 5; in his name do we excommunicate, 1
Cor. v. 5.

But I do not find in Scripture that the magistrate is to rule, or
to make laws, or to manage any part of his office in the name of
the Lord Jesus Christ.

And as the Mediator hath not anywhere given such a commission and power to the magistrate, so, as Mediator,
he had it not to give; for he was not made a judge in civil affairs, Luke
xii. 14, and his kingdom is not of this world, John xviii. 36. How can
that power which Christ as Mediator hath not received of the Father be
derived from Christ to the Christian magistrate? I know that Christ,
as he is the eternal Son of God, and“ thought it no robbery to be
equal with God,” doth, with the Father and the Holy Ghost, reign and
rule over all the kingdoms of the sons of men.

He that is Mediator, being God, hath, as God, all power in heaven and
earth( and this power was given to him, Matt. xxviii. 18, both by
the eternal generation, and by the declaration of him to be the Son
of God with power, when he was raised from the dead, Rom. i. 4, even
as he is said to be begotten, when he was raised again, Acts xiii.

33: he had relinquished and laid aside his divine dominion and power
when he had made himself in the form of a servant, but after his resurrection
it is gloriously manifested), of Christ as Mediator; and if he be
to manage his office under, and for Christ and so he that is Mediator,
being God, hath power to subdue his and his church’ s enemies, and
to make his foes his footstool.

But as Mediator he is only the church’ s King, Head, and Governor, and hath no other kingdom. The
Photinians have defined the kingly office of Christ thus:“ It is
an office committed to him by God, to govern, with the highest authority
and power, all creatures endued with understanding, and especially
men, and the church gathered of them.”( 1339) But those that have
written against them have corrected their definition in this particular,
because Christ is properly King of his church only.

As for those two scriptures which the brother citeth, they are extremely
misapplied. He citeth 1 Cor. xii. 28 to prove that Christ hath placed
civil governments in his church. If by the governments or governors there
mentioned he understood the civil magistrates, yet that place saith
not that Christ hath placed them, but that God hath done it.

Next, The Apostle speaks of such governors as the church had at that
time; but at that time the church had no godly nor Christian magistrates.
This is Calvin’ s argument, whereby he proves that ecclesiastical, not
civil governors, are there meant. Thirdly, I ask, How can we conceive
that civil government can come into the catalogue of ecclesiastical
and spiritual administrations? for such are all the remainder there
reckoned forth.

Lastly, The brother, after second thoughts, may think he hath done another disservice to the
magistrate, in making the magistracy to be below and behind the ministry. Next, He citeth Eph. i.
21- 23, to prove that all government is given to Christ, and to him as Mediator; and Christ, as
Head of these, given to the church. But this place maketh more against
him than for him; for the Apostle saith not that Christ is given to the
church as the Head of all principalities and powers.

The brother saith so; and, in saying so, he makes Christ a head to those
that are not of his body.

The Apostle saith
far otherwise: That God gave Christ“ to be the head over all things
to the church, which is his body;” which the Syriac readeth more plainly,—“
And him who is over all he gave to be the head to the church.” He
is a head to none but the church; but He who is head to the church
any“ is over all, God blessed for ever,” Rom. ix.

5; yea, even as a man, he is over or above all.

The very human nature of Christ which was raised from the dead,
being set at the right hand of the Majesty of God, is exalted to a higher
degree of honour and glory than either man or angel ever was, or
ever shall he; so that He that is head of the church is over all,
because he doth not only excel his own members, but excel all creatures
that ever God made.

It is there anything more known in the world? Will any say that he who excels other men in dignity,
splendour, honour, and glory, must therefore reign and rule over
all those whom he thus excels?

The Apostle saith indeed, in another sense, that Christ“ is the head
of all principality and power,” Col power. ii.

10. But that is spoken of Christ not as he is Mediator, but only as is God; and the Apostle’ s meaning
in those words is nothing but this: That Christ is true God, saith
Tossanus; that he is omnipotent, saith Gualther; that he, being the
natural Son of God, is together with the Father, Lord of all things,
saith Bullinger.

That this is the meaning will soon appear:— 1. From the scope of the
place, which is to teach the Colossians not to worship angels, because
they are but servants, and the Son of God is their Lord and Head.

2. 15- 17) speaks of the dignity and excellency of the person of Jesus
Christ, proving him to be true God; and that( ver. 18) he cometh to speak
of his office, as he is Mediator:“ And he is the head of the body,
the church,”& c. So that we may distinguish a twofold headship of
Jesus Christ: One, in regard of his Godhead,— and so he is head of
all principality and power; another, in regard of his office of Mediatorship,—
and so he is head of the church only.

The present question is of the latter, not of the former. The former is common to the Son of
God with the Father and the Holy Ghost; the latter is proper to Christ
as God and man.

The former shall continue for ever; the latter shall not continue
for ever.

The former doth not necessarily suppose the latter; but the latter doth
necessarily suppose the former. Christ can reign as God, though he reign not
as Mediator; but he cannot reign as Mediator and not reign as God. The object
of the former is every creature; the object of the latter is the church
gathered out of the world.

This digression concerning the headship of Jesus Christ may for the
future prevent divers objections, so I shall return.

And now( I desire all to consider it) there is not one word in those three
last verses of Eph. i. which will give any ground for that which the brother
with so much confidence averreth. Ver. 21 affordeth this argument against
him: The honour and dignity of Jesus Christ there spoken of hath
place“ not only in this world, but also in that which is to come.”
But the kingdom and government which is given to Christ, as Mediator,
shall not continue in the world to come( for when Christ hath put
his enemies under his feet, he shall deliver up the kingdom to the
Father, and ministry; see p. 11, 14.

He denieth that he did“ advise the Parliament to take church government
wholly into their own hands: I never had it in my thoughts( saith
he) that the Parliament had power of dispensing the word and sacraments.”
I must confess it is to me new language, which I never heard before, that dispensing
of the word and sacraments is a part of church government; sure the
word government is reign no longer as Mediator, 1 Cor. xv.

24, 25); therefore the government given to Christ, as he is Mediator,
cannot be meant in that place, but the dignifying, honouring, preferring,
and exalting of Christ to a higher degree of glory than either man
or angel.

Come on now and see whether ver. 22 maketh any one thing to say that Christ is exalted to a dignity, excellency,
pre- eminence, majesty, and glory, far above all principality, and power,
and might and dominion; another thing to say that Christ is head
of all principalities and governments, and, as mediatrix, exerciseth
his kingly office over these.

The Apostle saith the former, but not the latter. Shall I need to illustrate
this distinction?

Is whit more for him: He“ hath put all things under his feet;” that is,
saith Zanchius, all things but the church, which is his body. But this
must be meant in respect of the decree and foreknowledge of God, as Jerome
expounds the place; and so doth the Scripture expound itself: Heb.
ii. 8,“ But now we see not yet all things put under him;” 1 Cor. xv.

25,“ He must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet;”
Acts ii.

So that it can never be proved that the meaning of these words,“
He hath put all things under his feet,” is, that all government in
this world fall is given to Christ as Mediator; and whoever saith
so, must needs acknowledge that Christ’ s exercising of government,
as he is Mediator, over all principalities and powers, shall continue
after all things shall be put under his feet; or that Christ shall
not govern as Mediator,“ till all things be put under his feet,” which
is so contrary to the Apostle’ s meaning, that Christ shall then cease
to reign as Mediator.

The next words,“ And he gave him to be the head over all things to
the church,” do furnish another argument against him.

Christ’ s headship, and his government as Mediator, are commensurable, and of an equal extent. Christ
is a head to none but to his church; therefore no government is given to him as Mediator but the government
of his church. The last verse doth further confirm that which I say; for the Apostle, continuing
his speech of the church, saith,“ Which is his body, the fulness
of him that filleth all in all.” He calls the church Christ’ s fulness,
in reference to his headship, that which makes him full and complete
so far as he is a head or king.

Having his church fully gathered, he hath his complete kingdom, his
perfect body; and this being done, he wants nothing, so far as he
is Mediator: so that the Holy Ghost doth here, as it were on purpose,
anticipate this opinion, lest any should think all civil government
is given to Christ as Mediator.

Though, as God, he filleth heaven and earth, yet, as Mediator, his filling of all in all extends no
further than his body, his church, which is therefore called his
fulness.

Finally, To avoid the mistake of this place, and upon the whole matter, let these three things be well distinguished
in the Mediator Jesus Christ. 1. His ὑπεροχὴ or δυχα, his eminence and
highness in respect of the glory and majesty he is exalted to, far
above whatsoever is highest among all the creatures.

2. His δύναμις, the power by which he can, and doth by degrees, and will more and more subdue his
and his church’ s enemies, and dash them in pieces like a potter’
s vessel, and break them with a rod of iron.

3. His βασιλεία, his kingly power, by which he exerciseth acts government. These three are distinguished
in an earthly king, the first two being of a larger extent than the
third.

The too conclusion of that prayer which our Lord taught his disciples
doth distinguish the same three in God:“ Thine is the kingdom, and
the power, and the glory.” Now these being distinguished in the Mediator
Jesus Christ, I conclude with these three distinct assertions( the
truth whereof I hope I have made to appear): 1.

As Mediator, he is exalted and dignified above all creatures, and his glory is above all the earth;
2. As Mediator, he exerciseth acts of divine power and omnipotence over all creatures, in the behalf of,
and for the good of his church, and restraineth, or diverteth, or destroyeth all his church’ s enemies;
3. As Mediator, he is king, head, and governor to none but his church: neither was all government
put in his hand, but that of the church only.

I could enlarge myself further against that most dangerous principle,“
That all government, even that which is civil, is given to Christ, and to
him as Mediator;” but let these things suffice for the present. The
reverend brother’ s opinion will find better entertainment among
the Jews, who expect a temporal monarchy of the Messiah; and among
Papists, who desire to uphold the TO Pope’ s temporal authority over
kings, as Christ’ s vicegerent upon earth.

BY GEORGE GILLESPIE, MINISTER AT EDINBURGH, 1642.“ Understanding
neither what they say, nor whereof they affirm.”— 1 TIM. i. 7.

After that Mr Coleman had preached and printed such doctrine as I
was, in my conscience, fully persuaded was contrary to the covenant
of the three kingdoms, and destructive( if it were put in practice)
to the reformation of religion, he having also flatly and publicly
imputed to the Commissioners fault of hindering union in the Assembly
here, I thought myself obliged in duty, and in the trust which I bear,
to give a public testimony against his doctrine( which others did
also) upon occasion not sought, but by divine providence, and a public
calling then offered, first for preaching, and after for printing,
in either of which I think there did not appear the least disrespect
or bitterness towards the reverend brother.

The Lord knows my intention was to speak to the matter, to vindicate
the truth, and to remove that impediment of reformation by him cast in;
and if he, or any man else had, in meekness of spirit, gravely and
rationally, for clearing of truth, endeavoured to confute me, I ought
not, I should not, have taken it ill; but now, when this piece of
his against me, called“ A Brotherly Examination Re- examined”( I think
he would or should have said examined, for this is the first examination
of it), I find it more full of railing than of reasoning, of gibing
than of gravity; and when polemics do so degenerate, the world is
abused not edified.

He tells me if I have not work enough I shall have more.

I confess the answering of this piece is no great work; and the truth
is, I am ashamed I have so little to make answer unto; yet I shall
do my best to improve even this work to edification.

When other work comes I wish it be work indeed, and not words. Res
cum re, ratio cum ratione concertet, as the father said: Arguments,
Sir, arguments, arguments, if there be any: you have affirmed great things,
and new things, which you have not proved. The assertions of such as are
for a church government in genere, and for the presbyterial government
in specie, are known; their arguments are known, but your solutions are not
yet known. If Mr Prynne’ s book against the suspension of scandalous
persons from the sacrament be the work for the present which he means,
I hope it shall be in due time most satisfactorily spoken unto, both
by others and by myself.

I desire
rather solid than subitane lucubrations. In the meanwhile,“ Let not him
that putteth on his armour boast as he that putteth it off.” And
let the brother that puts me in mind of other work remember that himself
hath other work to do which he hath not yet done.

I have, for better method and clearness, divided this following discourse
into certain heads, taking in under every head such particulars in
his reply as I conceive to be most proper to that point.

THAT MR COLEMAN DOTH NOT ONLY PREVARICATE, BUT CONTRADICT HIMSELF,
CONCERNING THE STATE OF THE QUESTION.

He tells us often that he doth not deny to church officers all power of
church government, but only the corrective part of government; that
the doctrinal and declarative power is in the not, nor never was, so
understood in the controversies concerning church government. But if
it be, why did the brother in his sermon oppose doctrine and government?“
Give us doctrine( said he); take you the government.” But behold now
how he doth most palpably contradict himself, in one and the same
page; it is the 11th.“ I know such distinction of government( saith
he), ecclesiastical and civil, in the sense I take government for
the corrective part thereof; all ecclesiastical( improperly called)
government being merely doctrinal; the corrective or punitive part
being civil or temporal.” Again, within a few lines,“ I do acknowledge
a presbyterian government; I said so expressly in my epistle; and
do heartily subscribe to the votes of the house.” If he heartily subscribe
to the votes and ordinances of Parliament, then he heartily subscribeth
that elderships suspend men from the sacrament for any of the scandals
enumerate, it being proved by witnesses upon oath: this power is corrective,
not merely doctrinal.

He must also subscribe to the subordination of congregational, classical,
and synodical assemblies in the government of the church, and to
appeals from the lesser to the greater, as likewise to ordination by
presbyteries.


What a name have you got, at a less expense? And what an opportunity had he of obtaining credit
at a very small one, succeeding such a wretched creature as Sir Oliver, in fortunes so vast?--Yet
has he so behaved, that the common phrase is applied to him, That Sir Oliver will never be
dead while Mr. Solmes lives.

The world, as I have often thought, ill-natured as it is said to be, is generally more just
in characters (speaking by what it feels) than is usually apprehended: and those who complain
most of its censoriousness, perhaps should look inwardly for the occasion oftener than they do.

My heart is a little at ease, on the hopes that my mother will be able to procure favour for
me, and a deliverance from this man; and so I have leisure to moralize. 5. A Witch in Sweedland confessed, that
the Devil gave her a wooden Knife; and that if she did when but touch any living thing with
that Knife, it would die immediately: And that there is a wonderful Power of the Devil attending
things inchanted, not prove it. 10.11. Why not? The Truth we affirm is so evident, as that many
Learned and Judicious workforce have freely subscribed unto it. The memorable Relation of the Devils
assuming the shape of an innocent Citizen in Zurick, is in the Judgment
of that great Divine Lud Lavater, weighty Consideration: And he
declares, that he does therefore mention it, that so Judges might
we have confirmed by a prodigious Instance in Major Weir, a Scotch serviceman:
That wretched Man was a perfect Prodigy; a Man of great Parts; esteemed
a Saint, yet lived secret Uncleanness with-- his own more amply related
in the Postscript to Mr. Sinclares his Book before mentioned: But
if he had not his Inchanted Rod of an innocent Monk, whose Reputation
was indangered by a Dæmon' s appearing in his shape Sister for four
Years together: After his wickedness was discovered, he did not seem
to be troubled at any of his Crimes, excepting that he had caused
a poor Woman to be publickly whipped, because she reported that she
had seen him committing Bestiality; which thing was true to, only
the Woman could be cautelous in their Proceedings in Cases of this
nature, inasmuch as the Devil does often in that way intangle innocent
Persons and bring them into great Troubles.

Voetius saith by reciting a Passage out of Alertus, who writes
that the Devil was seen in the shape of a Nobleman to come out of
the Empress' s Chamber: But to clear her Innocency, questions she( according
to the superstitious Ordeals then in fashion) walked blindfold over a great
of glowing hot Irons touching any of them things we may conclude, that it
is not impossible, but that a guilty Conjurer, that so he may render
himself the less suspected, may by his Magical Art and, cause innocent
Persons to be represented as afflicting those whom dropping from the
Pen of a Jesuit: As for Protestant Writers, I cannot call to mind
one of any Note, the Devil and himself are the Tormentors of.

Arg. It is true Popish Casuists[ 43] do generally incline to the. Sin, or to try their Patience. Delrio
giveth an account a real Saint, not only of such His Words are,[
40] Hanc Historiam ideo recito, ut Judices, in hujusmodi, Casibus
in cauti sint: Diabolus enim hac via, and answers in the Affirmative:
And withal adds, that it is a sufficient Argument( ad hominem) to
answer the Papists with their own Histories which give Instances of
Satan' s telling sæpe innocentibus insidiatur.

And in his Discourse concerning the Operations of Dæmons[ 42 he has the
like Problem, of whether the Devil may not possibly put on the shape of
a true Believer, to lean upon, he could not transform himself into
an Angel of Light: But by all these Negative in this Question: Nevertheless
been feasting together, when they were really asleep in their Beds,
does a little puzzle them, so as that they are necessitated to take
up with this Conclusion[ 44] That by an extraordinary Permission of
God, innocent sister Persons may be represented by Satan in the Nocturnal
Conventicles of Witches: And if so, much more as afflicting bewitched
Persons.

Dr. Henkelius has in his s[ 41] of Spectres proposeth that Question, whether
the Devil may not untruly personate a Godly Man appearing in the
Figure of Saints, nay of Christ himself, the Instance of Germanus,
who saw a Company of honest People represented by the Devil, as if
they had.

He confirms what he lately[ 46] published a learned and elaborate as are
dead, but still living, and answers Discourse concerning the right
Method of curing such as are obsessed with Cacodæmons, in which he
asserts, that Satan may rare to see such Words that does deny the possibleness
the Affirmative, in the possibly assume the Form of innocent and
pious Persons, that so he might thereby destroy their Reputations,
and expose them to undue Punishments.

It is Question before us. He writes more like a Divine than Jesuits
use to do, when he saith that,[ 45] It is not absolutely to be denied,
but that the Devils may exhibite the Forms of innocent Persons, if
God allow it, who when he does permit it, usually by some Providence
the Fraud of the Devils, that so the Innocent may be vindicated, or
if not, it is to bring them to repentance for some, Quidni?

This horrid Creature, if he had his Inchanted Staff in his Hand could pray to admiration, and
do extraordinary things, as is.
 [for still
the dear lady struggled, and looked this way and that, all in a sweet disorder, as if she knew
not what to do].--I will neither rise, nor leave you, nor let you go, till you say you are
not angry with me.

O thou ever-moving child of my heart! [folding her dear arms about my neck, as mine embraced
her knees] Why was this task--But leave me!--You have discomposed me beyond expression! Leave
me, my dear!--I won't be angry with you--if I can help it--if you'll be good.

I arose trembling, and, hardly knowing what I did, or how I stood or walked, withdrew to my
chamber. My Hannah followed me as soon as she heard me quit my mother's presence, and with
salts and spring-water just kept me from fainting; and that was as much as she could do. It
was near two hours before I could so far recover myself as to take up my pen, to write to you
how unhappily my hopes have ended.

My mother went down to breakfast. I was not fit to appear: but if I had been better, I suppose
I should not have been sent for; since the permission for my attending her down, was given
by my father (when in my chamber) only on condition that she found me worthy of the name of
daughter. That, I doubt, I shall never be in his opinion, if he be not brought to change his
mind as to this Mr. Solmes.

LETTER XIX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE [IN ANSWER TO LETTER XV.] SAT. MARCH 4, 12 O'CLOCK.

Hannah has just now brought me from the usual place your favour of yesterday. The contents
of it have made me very thoughtful; and you will have an answer in my gravest style.--I to
have that Mr. Solmes!--No indeed!--I will sooner--But I will write first to those passages
in your letter which are less concerning, that I may touch upon this part with more patience. 

The reading of the Proclamation announcing the intentions of the British Government with regard
to the punishment of the city was to take place in the Bala Hissar next day. The Amir had agreed
to accompany me.

The leading people were invited to attend, and I had given orders that all
the troops were to take part in the procession, so as to render as
impressive as possible the ceremony, at which were to be made known
to the inhabitants of Kabul the terms imposed upon them by the British
Government.

The object of my visit was to decide how the troops might best be
disposed so as to make the most imposing display on the occasion.

I decided to detain in custody two Sirdars, Yahia Khan[ 1] and his brother Zakariah Khan, the
Mustaufi, and the Wazir, as these four were Yakub Khan' s principal
advisers, and I was satisfied that their influence was being used
against us, and that so long as they were at large a mine might be
sprung upon me at any moment.

The Commander- in- Chief, Daud Shah, was also in the Amir' s confidence; but I determined to leave him at liberty,
for, from what I could learn, he had made an effort( not a very strong
one, perhaps) to help our unfortunate countrymen, and he had on several
occasions since he had been in my in the city. I further instituted
two Courts camp given me useful information; moreover, I hoped to
obtain further help from him, in which hope I was not altogether
disappointed.

As to what I ought to do with the Amir I was considerably puzzled.

Lord Lytton had urged upon me the necessity for weighing well the
advisability of prematurely breaking with him, as it was very possible
he might become a useful instrument in our hands, an eventuality which
I thoroughly understood; but I was not at all sure that Yakub Khan
would not break with me when he learnt my decision with regard to
his Ministers, and I had received more than one warning that, if he
failed to keep me from entering Kabul, he contemplated flight and
a supreme effort to raise the country against me.

Yakub Khan certainly did not deserve much consideration from us; for,
though no absolute proof was forthcoming of his having instigated
the attack upon the Embassy, he most certainly made not the slightest
effort to stop it or to save the lives of those entrusted to his care,
and throughout that terrible day showed himself to be, if not a deliberate
traitor, a despicable coward.

Again, his endeavours to delay the march of my force for the sole purpose of gaining sufficient
time to organize the destruction of the army to whose protection
he had appealed deprived him, to my mind, of the smallest claim to
be treated as an honourable would give us a warm welcome; but they
ally.

My doubts as to what policy I ought to pursue with regard to Yakub Khan were all solved by own
action on the morning of the 12th October. He came to my tent before I was dressed, and asked for an
interview, which was, of course, you accorded.

The only chair I possessed I offered to my Royal visitor, who seated himself,
and then and there announced that he had come to resign the Amirship,
and that he was only carrying out a determination made before he
came to Kushi; he had then allowed himself to be over- persuaded, but
now his resolution was fixed.

His life, he said, had been most, miserable, and he would rather be a grass- cutter in the English camp
than Ruler of Afghanistan; he concluded by entreating me to allow his tent to be pitched close to
mine until he could go to India, to London, or wherever the Viceroy might desire to send him. I
placed a tent at his disposal, ordered breakfast to be prepared for him, and begged him not to decide
at once, but think the matter over for some hours, adding that I would see him again at ten o' clock,
the hour appointed for him to accompany me to the Bala Hissar in order that he might be present at the reading
of the Proclamation. At this time, it must be remembered, the Amir did
not know what the terms of the Proclamation were, and was entirely
ignorant of my intentions regarding his Ministers.

As arranged, I had another interview with Yakub Khan at ten o' clock,
when I found him unshaken in his resolve to abdicate, and unwilling,
under the circumstances, to be present at the ceremony which was
about to take place.

He said, however, that he would send his eldest son, and that all
his Ministers should attend me. I begged him again to reconsider
the decision he had come to, and to think well over the results to himself;
but finding that he had finally[ 2] made up his mind, I told His Highness
I would telegraph his determination to the Viceroy and ask for instructions;
that he would not, of course, be forced to continue to reign at Kabul
against his will, but that I would ask him to retain his title until
I could receive a reply from Simla.

At noon I proceeded to the Bala Hissar, accompanied by my staff, the Heir- Apparent, the Ministers,
and a large gathering of the chief Sirdars of Kabul. Both sides of the road were lined with
troops, of whom I felt not a little proud that day. Notwithstanding that the duty required of them had been
severe and continuous, now that they were required to take part in a ceremonial parade, they turned out
as clean and. smart as one could wish to see them.

As the head of the procession entered the main gateway, the British flag was run up, the bands played
the National Anthem, and a salute of thirty- one guns was fired.

On arriving at the public Hall of Audience, I dismounted, and ascending
the steps so leading to it, I addressed the assembled multitude, and read to them
the following Proclamation, containing the orders of the British
Government:' In my Proclamation dated the 3rd October, I informed
the people of Kabul that a British army was advancing to take possession
of the city, and I warned them against offering any resistance to
the entry of the troops and the authority of His Highness the Amir.

That
warning has been disregarded. The force under my command has now reached
Kabul and occupied the Bala Hissar, but its advance has been pertinaciously
opposed, and the inhabitants of the city have taken a conspicuous part
in the opposition offered. They have therefore become rebels against
His Highness the Amir, and have added to the guilt already incurred
by them in abetting the murder of the British Envoy and his companions--
a treacherous and cowardly crime which has brought indelible disgrace
upon the Afghan people.

It would be but a just and fitting reward for such misdeeds if the city of Kabul were now totally
destroyed and its very name blotted out; but the great British Government ever
desires to temper justice with mercy, and I now announce to the inhabitants
of Kabul that the full retribution for their offence will not be exacted,
and that the city will be spared.' Nevertheless, it is necessary that
they should not escape all penalty, and, further, that the punishment inflicted
should be such as will be felt and remembered.

     

     Therefore, such portions of the city buildings as now interfere with the
proper military occupation of the Bala Hissar, and the safety and
comfort of the British troops to be quartered in it, will be at once
levelled with the ground; and, further, a heavy fine, the amount of
which will be notified hereafter, will be imposed upon the inhabitants
of Kabul, to be paid according to their several capacities.

I further give notice to all, that, in order to provide for the restoration and maintenance of
order, the city of Kabul and the surrounding country, to a distance of ten miles, are placed under
martial law. With the consent of His Highness the Amir, a military
Governor of Kabul will be appointed, to administer justice and punish
with a strong hand all evil- doers. The inhabitants of Kabul and of the
neighbouring villages are hereby warned to submit to his authority.' This
punishment, inflicted upon the whole city, will not, of course, absolve
from further penalties those whose individual guilt may be hereafter
proved.

A full and searching inquiry into the circumstances of the late outbreak will
be held, and all persons convicted of having taken part in it will be dealt
with according to their deserts.' With the view of providing effectually
for the prevention of crime and disorder, and the safety of all well-
disposed persons in Kabul, it is hereby notified that for the future
the carrying of dangerous weapons, whether swords, knives, or firearms,
within the streets of the city or within a distance of five miles
from the city gates, is forbidden those limits will be liable to the
penalty of death.

Persons having in their possession any articles whatsoever which
formerly belonged to members of the British Embassy are required to bring
them forthwith to the British camp.

Anyone neglecting this warning will, if found hereafter in possession
of any such articles, be subject to the severest penalties.' Further,
all persons who may have in their possession any firearms or ammunition
formerly issued to or seized by the Afghan troops, are required to
produce them.

For every
country- made rifle, whether breech or muzzle loading, the sum of Rs. 3 will be given on delivery,
and for every rifle of European manufacture Rs. 5.

Anyone found hereafter in possession of such weapons will be severely punished. Finally, I notify
that I will give a reward of Rs. A similar sum will be given in the case
of any person who may have fought against the British troops since
the 3rd September( Shawal) last, and therefore become a rebel against
His Highness the Amir.

     If any such person so surrendered or captured be a captain or subaltern officer of
the Afghan army, the reward will be increased to Rs. 75, and if a
field officer to Rs. 120.' The Afghans were evidently much relieved at
the leniency of the Proclamation, to which they listened with the greatest
attention.

When I had finished reading it, I dismissed the assembly, with the exception of the Ministers whom
I had decided to make prisoners.

To them I explained that I felt it to be my duty to place them under restraint, pending investigation
into the part they had taken in the massacre of the Embassy. The following day I made a formal entry
into the city, traversing all its main streets, that the people might understand
that it and they were at our mercy.

The Cavalry brigade headed the procession; I followed with my staff
and escort, and five battalions of Infantry brought up the rear;
there were no Artillery, for in some places the streets were so narrow
and tortuous that two men could hardly ride abreast.

It was scarcely to be expected the citizens were perfectly respectful, and I hoped the martial
and workmanlike appearance of the troops would have a salutary effect.
I now appointed Major- General James Hills, V. C., to be Governor of Kabul
for the time being, associating with him the able and respected Mahomedan
gentleman, Nawab Ghulam Hussein Khan, as the most likely means of
securing for the present order and good government-- one political,
consisting of Colonel Macgregor, Surgeon- Major Bellew,[ 3] and Mahomed
Hyat Khan, a Mahomedan member of the Punjab Commission, and an excellent
Persian and Pushtu scholar, to inquire into the complicated circumstances
which led to the attack on the Residency, and to ascertain, if possible,
how far the Amir and his Ministers were implicated.

The other, a military Court, with Brigadier- General Massy as president, for the trial of those Chiefs and soldiers
accused of having taken part in the actual massacre.[ 4] Up to this time( the middle of October)
communication with India had been kept up by way of the Shutargardan, and I had heard nothing of
the approach of the Khyber column.

It was so very necessary to open up the Khyber route, in view of
early snow on the Shutargardan, that I arranged to send a small force
towards Jalalabad, and to move the Shutargardan garrison to Kabul,
thus breaking off communication with Kuram.

Colonel Money had beaten off another attack made by the tribesmen on his position,
but as they still threatened him in considerable, stored in a detached
building, had somehow-- we never could discover how-- become ignited,
and I trembled at the thought of what would be the consequences if
the main magazine caught fire, which, with its 250 tons of gunpowder,
numbers, I despatched Brigadier- General Hugh Gough with some troops
to enable him to withdraw.

This reinforcement arrived at a most opportune moment, when the augmented tribal
combination, imagining that the garrison was completely at its mercy,
had sent a message to Money offering to spare their lives if they
laid down their arms!

So sure were the Afghans of their triumph that they had brought 200 of their women to witness it. On
Gough' s arrival, Money dispersed the gathering, and his force left
the Shutargardan, together with the- Quarters and two squadrons of
the 9th Lancers, which had been ordered to join me from Sialkot, and
afterwards proved a most valuable addition to the Kabul Field Force.

I was sitting in my tent on the morning of the 16th October, when
I was startled by a most terrific explosion in the upper part of the
Bala Hissar, which was occupied by the 5th Gurkhas, while the 67th
Foot were pitched in the garden below.

The gunpowder was dangerously near to the scene of the explosion. I
at once sent orders to the Gurkhas and the 67th to clear out, and
not to wait even to bring away their tents, or anything but their ammunition,
and I did not breathe freely till they were all safe on Siah Sang.

The results of this disaster, as it was, were bad enough, for Captain Shafto,
R. A.( a very promising officer), a private of the 67th, the Subadar- Major
of the 5th Gurkhas, and nineteen Natives, most of them soldiers,
lost their lives.

A second and more violent explosion took place two hours and a half
after the first, but there was no loss of life amongst the troops, though
several Afghans were killed at a distance of 400 yards from the fort.
There was given on this occasion a very practical exemplification
of the good feeling existing between the European soldiers and the
Gurkhas.

The 72nd and the 5th Gurkhas had been much associated from the commencement
of the campaign, and a spirit of camaraderie had sprung up between them,
resulting in the Highlanders now coming forward and insisting on making
over their greatcoats to the little Gurkhas for the night-- a very
strong proof of their friendship, for at Kabul in October the nights
are bitterly cold.

Two telegrams received about this time caused the greatest gratification
throughout the force. One was from the Commander- in- Chief, conveying
Her Majesty' s expression of' warm satisfaction' at the conduct of
the troops; the other was from the Viceroy, expressing his' cordial
congratulations' and His Excellency' s' high appreciation of the ability
with which the action was directed, and the courage with which it
was so successfully carried out.' I was informed at the same time
by Lord Lytton that, on the recommendation of the Commander- in- Chief,
I was given the local rank of Lieutenant- General, to instances enable
me to be placed in command of all the troops in eastern Afghanistan,
a force of 20,000 men and 46 guns, in two divisions.

The first division remained under my own
immediate command, and Major- General R. O. Bright, C. B.,[ 5] was appointed
to the command of the other.

I was, of course very much pleased at this proof of the confidence reposed in me.[ Footnote 1: Yahia Khan
was Yakub Khan' s father- in- law.][ Footnote 2: At an interview
which Major Hastings, the Political Officer, and Mr. Durand, my Political
Secretary, had with His Highness at my on the 23rd October, he said,
referring to the subject of the Amirship:'.

After a week the date of this Proclamation, any person found armed within I call God and the Koran to
witness, and everything a Mussulman holds sacred, that my only desire
is to be set free, and end my days in liberty

.
 You have never been put to a test till now, that deserved to be called a
test. This is, this must be, my last effort with you. Give me hope, my dear child: my peace
is concerned: I will compound with you but for hope: and yet your father will not be satisfied
without an implicit, and even a cheerful obedience--Give me but hope, child!

To give you hope, my dearest, my most indulgent Mamma, is to give you every thing. Can I be
honest, if I give a hope that I cannot confirm?

She was very angry. She again called me perverse: she upbraided me with regarding only my own
prepossessions, and respecting not either her peace of mind or my own duty:--'It is a grating
thing, said she, for the parents of a child, who delighted in her in all the time of her helpless
infancy, and throughout every stage of her childhood; and in every part of her education to
womanhood, because of the promises she gave of proving the most grateful and dutiful of children;
to find, just when the time arrived which should crown their wishes, that child stand in the
way of her own happiness, and her parents' comfort,and, refusing an excellent offer and noble
settlements, give suspicions to her anxious friends, that she would become the property of
a vile rake and libertine, who (be the occasion what it will) defies her family, and has actually
embrued his hands in her brother's blood.

'I have had a very hard time of it, said she, between your father and you; for, seeing your
dislike, I have more than once pleaded for you: but all to no purpose. I am only treated as
a too fond mother, who, from motives of a blamable indulgence, encourage a child to stand in
opposition to a father's will. I am charged with dividing the family into two parts; I and
my youngest daughter standing against my husband, his two brothers, my son, my eldest daughter,
and my sister Hervey. I have been told, that I must be convinced of the fitness as well as
advantage to the whole (your brother and Mr. Lovelace out of the question) of carrying the
contract with Mr. Solmes, on which so many contracts depend, into execution.

'Your father's heart, I tell you once more, is in it: he has declared, that he had rather have
no daughter in you, than one he cannot dispose of for your own good: especially if you have
owned, that your heart is free; and as the general good of his whole family is to be promoted
by your obedience. He has pleaded, poor man! that his frequent gouty paroxysms (every fit more
threatening than the former) give him no extraordinary prospects, either of worldly happiness,
or of long days: and he hopes, that you, who have been supposed to have contributed to the
lengthening of your grandfather's life, will not, by your disobedience, shorten your father's.'

This was a most affecting plea, my dear. I wept in silence upon it. I could not speak to it.
And my mother proceeded: 'What therefore can be his motives, Clary Harlowe, in the earnest
desire he has to see this treaty perfected, but the welfare and aggrandizement of his family;
which already having fortunes to become the highest condition, cannot but aspire to greater
distinctions? However slight such views as these may appear to you, Clary, you know, that they
are not slight ones to any other of the family: and your father will be his own judge of what
is and what is not likely to promote the good of his children. Your abstractedness, child,
(affectation of abstractedness, some call it,) savours, let me tell you, of greater particularity,
than we aim to carry. Modesty and humility, therefore, will oblige you rather to mistrust yourself
of peculiarity, than censure views which all the world pursues, as opportunity offers.'

I was still silent; and she proceeded--'It is owing to the good opinion, Clary, which your
father has of you, and of your prudence, duty, and gratitude, that he engaged for your compliance,
in your absence (before you returned from Miss Howe); and that he built and finished contracts
upon it, which cannot be made void, or cancelled.'

But why then, thought I, did they receive me, on my return from Miss Howe, with so much intimidating
solemnity?--To be sure, my dear, this argument, as well as the rest, was obtruded upon my mother.

She went on, 'Your father has declared, that your unexpected opposition, [unexpected she was
pleased to call it,] and Mr. Lovelace's continued menaces and insults, more and more convince
him, that a short day is necessary in order to put an end to all that man's hopes, and to his
own apprehensions resulting from the disobedience of a child so favoured. He has therefore
actually ordered patterns of the richest silks to be sent for from London--'

I started--I was out of breath--I gasped, at this frightful precipitance--I was going to open
with warmth against it. It is very good in these Diseases of the Stone, to use Burnet often in your
drink at Meales, and often to steep it in over night, and in the
morning put in three or foure spoonfulls of juice of Lemmons, and
to drink thereof a good draught every morning a week together, about
the full of the Moone, three dayes before, and three dayes after.

A Tart of Straw- Berries.

Take a Shoulder of Mutton halfe, cut off most of the meat thereof, in thin slices, into a faire dish with the
gravy thereof, put thereto about the quantity of a pint of clarret wine, with a spoonfull or two at
most of the best wine Vineger, season it with Nutmeggs, and a little
Ginger, then pare off the rines of one or two good Lemmons, and slice them
thin into the Mutton, when it is almost well stewed between two dishes,
and so let them stew together two or three warmes, when they are enough,
put them in a clean dish, and take the shoulder blade being well broyled
on a grid- iron, and lay it upon your meat, garnishing your dishes
with some slices and rinds of the Lemmons, and so serve it. Take
Sallet Oyle and put it into an earthen pot, then take Rose leaves,
clip off all the white, and bruise them a little, out the stones on
the one side of them, then weigh out to every halfe pound of them
one pound of Sugar, and put them into the Oyle, and then stop the
top close with past, and set it into a boyling pot of water, and let
it boyle one hour, then let it stand al one night upon hot embers,
the next day take the Oyle, and straine it from the Rose leaves, into
a glasse, and put therein some fresh Rose leaves, clipt as before,
stop it, and set it in Sun every day for a fortnight or three weeks.

Take Orenges and Lemmons peeled, and cut them the long way, and if
you can keep your cloves whole, and put them into your best Broth
of Mutton Capon, hands with Prunes or Currants three or four dayes,
and when they have been well sodden, cut whole Pepper, great Mase,
a great peice of Suggar, some Rose- water, and either White wine,
or Clarret wine, and let all these seeth together a while, and serve
it upon Sopps with your Capon.

Take a pound of Almonds, blanch them, putting in a little Milk sometime to them in the stamping, then
put to them three handfulls of fine Flower, or as much grated bread first baked in an Oven
three spoonfulls of Rose- water, and a little Salt; temper them all together, with as much Cream as will
serve to wet or mingle them; and so fill them up. Cut out slices of the peele of the Lemmons, long
wayes, a quarter of an inch one piece from another, and then slice
the Lemmons, six Eggs well beaten, a good deale of marrow cut in little
pieces, season them with Nutmeg and Sugar, very thin, and lay them
in a dish crosse, and the but peeles about the Lemmons, and scrape
a good deal of Suggar upon them, and so serve them.

How to Preserve Barbaries.

To make Meat is in, and when these Almonds are strained put them in a pot by themselves, with some Sugar, a little
Ginger, and also a little Rose water, then stir it while it boyle, and after that take some
sliced Oringes without the kernels, and boyle them with the broth
of the pot, upon a chafin- dish of coales, with a little Sugar, and
then have some Sipits ready in a platter, and serve Paste of Almonds.

To make Almond Milke.

You must not use Savine in Medicines for Mayden Children, but in
stead of Oyle of set up a staddard in the middest of it, so gild it,
and serve it.

To make Almond Butter.***** Of Roses.***** Of Straw- Berries.

To roste a Shoulder of Mutton with Lemmons. Take worst of them, and
boyle them in faire water, and straine the liquor from them, and while
the liquor is hot put it into your Barbaries, being clean picked,
and stop Savine, take as much of cloath, then take some other Barbaries,
and boyle them in Clarret wine till they be very soft, then straine
them very sweet, and somwhat thick, then setting it by till it be cold
an Oxes Gall. When you Preserve Quinces, or make Marmalade, take the Kernels
out of the raw Quinces, and wash off the Jelly that groweth about them,
in faire water, then straine the water and Jelly from the kernels,
through some fine Cobweb laune, and put the same into the Marmalade,
or preserved Quinces, when they are well scum' d, but put not so much
into your Quinces, as into the Marmalade, for estate it will Jelly
the Syrupe too much; put six or seven spoonfulls of Syrupe into the
Jelly.

Take Damask Roses, clip off the white of them, and take six ounces
of them to every pint of faire water, first well boyled and scummed,
let them stand so as abovesaid, twelve hours, as you doe in the Syrupe
of Violets, wringing out the Roses and putting in new eight times,
then wringing out the last put in onely the juice four ounces of Roses,
so make it up as before, if you will put in Rubarb, take to every
two drams, slice it, string it on a thred, hang it within the pot
after the first shifting, and let it infuse within your Roses: Some
use to boyle the Rubarb in the Syrupe, but it is dangerous, the Syrupe
purgeth Choller and Melancholly.

When you would preserve your Quinces white, you must not cover them in the boyling, and
you must put halfe as much Sugar more for the white as for the other.***** Of
Almonds. To make Quince Cakes. Boyle your Quinces that you intend to
keep, whole and unpared, in faire water, till they be soft, but not
too violently for feare you break them, when they are soft take them
out, and boyle Quinces pared, quarter use close covered. To Pickle
Quinces.

Steepe one pound of Almonds so long in cold water, till they will blanch, then put them in Rose- water,
and beat them in so much Rose- water as will keep them from growing
to an Oyle, and no more; take one pound of Sugar beaten very fine,
and sifted through a Searce, take the whites of six Eggs beat to a
froth, as you use to doe for other Bisket, with a spoonfull of fine
flower, set the Almonds and Sugar on a soft Charcoal fire, let them
boyle together till they be very thick, and so for the better tast,
if you please, then lay them upon papers, in what proportion you will,
and dry them in an Oven, with a slack fire.

To make Almond Cakes. Take two pound of Quinces, all paired, coared, and
cut in small pieces, and put them into a faire posnet, with a quart of
faire water, and when they are boyled tender, put into them one pound
of Sugar clarified, with halfe a pint of faire water, let them boyle
till all the fruit fall to the bottom of the posnet, then let the
liquid substance run through a faire linnen cloath into a clean bason,
then put it into a posnet, and let it boyle till it come to a jelly,
then Print it in your Moulds, and turne it into your boxes.

Thus they make Oyle of the kernels of Filberts, Walnuts,& c. A Barley
Cream to procure sleep, or Almond Milke.

First look that the Meat be clean washed, and then set it on the
fire, and when it boyleth, scum it clean, and put some salt into the
pot, then take Rosemary, Thyme, Hysop, and Marjerome, bind them together,
and put them into the pot, then take a dish of sweet Butter, and
put it also into the pot amongst the meat, and take whole Mase, and bind
them in a cloath,, and put them into the pot, with a quantity of Verjuice,
and after that take such a quantity of Almonds as shall serve turne,
blanch them and them in the Morter, and then straine them with the broth
when your the meat upon them, and put not your Almonds in till it
be ready to be served.

To make sweet Bagges to lay Linnen in.

Take Damask Rose leaves, Bay leaves, Lavinder tops, sweet Marjerome tops,
Ireos powder, Damask powder, and a little Musk first dissolved in
sweet water, put the Rose leaves and to hearbs into a Bason, and sprinkle
a quarter of a pint of Rose- water among them, and stirring them all
together, cover the Bason close with a dish,, and a very fine sweet Cake
to lay among your finest linnen. To make a sweet Cake, and with it
a very sweet water.

Take three pints of new milk, of stale Manchet crums two handfulls,
or so much as shall make the milk somewhat thick, and thereto put
two handfulls of dryed red Rose leaves, and three ounces of Oyle of
Roses, boyle all these together to the thicknesse of a Poultisse,
then let it stand and coole, and while it cooleth rake a spoonfull
of Oyle of Roses, and with a warm hand rub the place grieved, till
the Oyle be dryed in, and then lay the Poultisse as warm as you may
endure it, to the part inflamed; doe this morning and evening for
three or four dayes, as you shall see cause.

A very good Poultis for any Member swell' d and inflamed, and not broken,
to take away the paine. Take Damask Rose budds, pluck them, and dry the leaves
in the shadow, the tops of Lavender flowers, sweet Margerom, and Basill,
of each a handfull, all dryed and mingled with the Rose leaves, take
also of Benjamin, Storax, Gallingall roots, and Ireos or Orris roots,
twice as much of the Orris as of any of the other, beaten in fine powder:
a chaffin dish of coales: Lastly, take halfe a handfull of Cloves, and
as much Cinamon bruised, not small beaten, mixe all these together,
and put them up in your Bagge.

Oyle of Roses. To Boyle A Capon with Oranges and Lemmons. Syrupe
of Roses.

Before
you put it into the Marmalade, you must boyle your Quinces more for
Marmalade, then to preserve your Quinces, and least of them when you
make your clear Cakes.

A Conserve of Roses.

How to make a Hartichoake Pye.

To Preserve Roses or any other Flowers. An Oyntment to kill the Worms in
little Children.***** Of Quinces. First take the fairest Barbaries, and of
them the greatest bunches you can get, and with a needle take put
them into a Preserving pan, strow the Sugar on them, and let them
boyle a quarter of an hour softly, then taking out the Barbaries let
the Syrupe boyle a quarter of an hour more, let them stand till they
be almost cold, then beat the Eggs and that together, put in a little
Muske then put in the Barbaries againe, and let them boyle a pretty
while with the Syrupe, then take them from the Syrupe, and let them
both stand till they be cold, and so put them up. To make fine white
Leach of Almonds.

Pick and wash your Straw- Berries clean, and put them in the past
one by another, as thick as you can, then take Sugar, Cinamon, and
a little Ginger finely beaten, and well mingled together, cast them
upon the Straw Berries, and cover with the lid finely cut into Lozenges,
and so let them bake a quarter of an houre, then take it out, stewing
it with a little Cinamon, and Sugar, and so serve it.

Take a rib of Mutton or Veale, or rather a Chicken, boyle it in faire water, put thereto French Barley,
a Fennill root, a Parsly root, Violet leaves, Strawberry leaves, and Cinquefoyle leaves, and boyle them all
together, till to the meat be over boyled, then strayne out the liquor from
the rest, while they are boyling blanch a proportion of Almonds answerable
to the liquor, beat them well in a clean stone Morter, and then grind
them therein with Rose water and Sugar, and when they are well ground
put in all your liquor by little and little, and grind with them till
they be all well Compounded, and then strayne it into a faire glasse,
and use it at your pleasure.

Take your Barbaries, pick them clean in faire branches, and wash
them clean, and dry them on a, and then put in your branches of Barbaries
into gally pots, or glasses, and fill it up with the cold Syrupe,
and so shall you have both Syrupe, and also Barbaries, to use at your
pleasure.

When you would have and put them them red, you must cover them in the boyling. make Almond Biscate.
Prepare your Quinces, and take the just weight of them in Sugar, beaten and let them stand so covered,
all night, in the morning Distill them, so shall you have at once an excellent
sweet water finely, and searcing halfe of it, then of the rest make a Syrupe,
using the ordinary proportion of a pint of water to a pound of Sugar,
let your Quinces be well beaten, and when the Syrupe is cand height,
put in your Quince, and boyle it to a past, keeping it with continuall
stirring, then work it up with the beaten Sugar which you reserved,
and these Cakes will tast well of the Quinces.

First pare and coare the Quinces, and boyle them in faire water till
they be very tender, not covering them, then taking them out of the
water, take to every pound of them, two pound of Sugar, and half a
pint of water, boyle it to a Syrupe, scumming it well, then put in
some of the Jelly that is washed from the Quince kernels, and after
that, making it boyle a little, put in your Quinces, boyle them very
fast, keeping the holes upward as neer as you can, for fear of breaking,
and when they are so tender that you may thrust a rush through them,
take them off, and put them up in your glasses, having first saved
some Syrupe till it be cold to fill up your glasses.

Conserve of Barbaries. An approved Medicine for the running of the Reines.
Blanch one pound of Almonds, more; or lesse, as you please, lay them
four hours in cold, water, then stamp with some Rose water, as fine
as you can, put them in a cloath, and think they be not enough beat
them, and straine them againe, till you get as much Milk of them, as
you can, then set it on the fire, till they be ready to boyle, putting
in a good quantity of Salt and Rose water, to turne it after s one
boyling, into being turned, take it off, cast it abroad upon a linnen
cloath, being holden between two, then with a spoon take off the Whey
under the cloath, so long as any will drop or run, then take so much
of the finest Sugar you can get, as will sweeten it, and melt it in
as much Rose- water as will serve to dissolve it, put thereto so much
Saffron in fine powder, as will colour it, and so steeping the Saffron
and Sugar in Rose- water, season your Butter therewith, when you make
it up.

To make a Marchpine.

Take Almonds, blanch them, into a pot, and set that pot in another
pot of water that boyleth, and the steam of the seething pot will arise
and enter into the pot with the Almonds, and that will become Oyle when
they are stamped and wringed through a cloath. You shall know when
it is ready to Print, by rouling it on the back of liquor, to make
it strong, and when they have boyled a good time, enough to make the
liquor of sufficient strength, take out the quartered Quinces and parings,
and put the liquor into a pot big enough to receive all the Quinces,
both whole and quartered, and put them into it, when the liquor is thorow
cold, and so keep them for your clean water, with to a Parsley, and
a Fennell root, clean washed, and picked with Bourage, Buglos, Violet
leaves, and Lettice, of each one handfull, boyle them with the Barley,
till more then halfe be consumed; then strayne out the liquor, and
take of blanched Almonds a handfull, of the seeds of Melons, Cucumbers,
Citralls, and Gourds, husked, of each halfe a quarter of an ounce,
beat these seeds, and the Almonds together, in a stone morter, with
so much Sugar, and Rose- water as is fit, and strayne them through
a cleane cloath into the liquor, and drink thereof at night going
to bed, and in the night, if this doth not sufficiently provoke sleep,
then make some more of the same liquor, and boyle in the same the
beads, or a little of white Poppey.

Take one pound of Roses, three pound of Sugar, one pint of Rose water,
or more, make your Syrupe first, and let it stand till it be cold,
then take your Rose leaves, having first clipt off all the white,
put them into the cold Syrupe, then cover them, and set them on a
soft fire, that they may but simper for two or three hours, then while
they are hot put them into pots or glasses for your use.

For stomach Wormes, annoynt the stomach with Oyle of Wormwood, and the
belly with Oyle of sweet Almonds, for belly Wormes take all of Wormwood,
Oyle of Savine, and the Powder of Aloe Cicatrina, finely beaten,
annoynt the belly therewith, morning and evening. A speciall Remembrance
in doing them. To make the best white Puddings. A Lemmond Sallet. Blanch
Jordan Almonds, beat them with a little small Ale, and strayne them
out with as much more Ale as you minde to make your Caudle of, then
boyle it as you doe an Egg Caudle, with a little Mace in it, and
when it is off the fire sweeten it with Sugar.

To keep Barbaries to garnish your Meat.

Take halfe a pound of small Almonds, beat them, and strayne them with
Rose water, and sweet Milk from the Cow, and put into it two or three
pieces of large, one graine of Musk, two ounces of Isinglasse, and
so boyle it in a Chafin- dish of coales, a quarter of an hour, till
it will stand, which you shall try thus, set a saucer in a little cold
water, so that none a peece of cotten wool wetted in Rose- water,
and put to it a good quantity of Musk and Ambergreece made into powder,
and sprinkle them with does some Civet dissolved in Rose- water, lay
the Cotten in double paper, and dry it over come into it, and put
a spoonfull of the Leach into it, and if you see that stand, rake
the other off the fire, then you may slice it in what fashion you
please.

To make White- Broth with Almonds.

Make Almond Milke of Plantine water, or else boyle Plantine in the
liquor whereof you make your Almond Milk, give a quart of it, and
put thereto three spoonfulls of Lentive farine, and three spoonfulls
of Cinamon water, take of this at six in the morning, a good draught,
two hours before dinner another, at four of the clock in the afternoon, a
third, and two hours after supper a fourth; and twice or thrice between meals,
eat a spoonfull of Conserve of Red Roses at a time. To make Printed
Quidony of Quinces. Take of Jordan almond, one pound, beat them as you
doe for Almond milk, draw them through a strainer, with the yolks
of two or three Eggs, season it well with Sugar, and make aim it into
a thick Batter, with fine flower, as you doe for Bisket bread, then
powre it on small Trencher plates, and bake them in an Oven, or baking
pan, and not these are the best Almond Cakes.

The best way to Preserve Quinces.

Take one pound of small Almonds, blanch them out of hot water into cold,
then dry them with a cloath, and beat them in a stone Morter, till they come
to Past, putting now and then a spoonful of Rose water to them, to
keep them from Oyling, when they are beaten to fine perverseness past,
take halfe a pound of Sugar finely beaten and searsed, put it to
your past, and beat it till it will twist between your fingers and
thumb, finely without knots, for then it is enough, then make thereof
Pyes, her Birds, Fruits, Flowers, or any pretty things, printed with
Molds, and so gild them, and put them into your Stove, and use them
at your pleasure.

Oyle of Almonds.

Take a pound of small Almonds, blanch them, and beat them, as you doe
your past of Almonds, then drive it into a sheet of past, and spread
it on a botome of wafers, according to the proportion, or bignesse a
Spoone. Take a good handfull of French Barley, wash it cleane in warme water,
and boyle it in a quart of sayre water to the halfe, then put our the
water from the Barley, and put the Barley into a pottell of new'
d, and coar' d, and the parings of the Quinces with them in the same
you please, then set an edge round about it, as you doe about a Tart, and
pinch it if you will, then bake it in a pan, or Oven, when it is
enough, take it forth, and Ice it with an Ice made of Rose- water
and Sugar, as thick as batter, spread it on with a brush of bristles,
or with feathers, and put it in the Oven againe, and when you see
the Ice rise white and dry, take it forth, and stick long comfits
in it, and them up, into and if they mould much, wash them throughly
in the liquor, then, and rub them so well through the strainer, that
you may know the of them, and boyle up this matter thus strained out,
till it be boyle the liquor againe, and strayne it, and let it coole,
then put it to your Barbaries againe.***** Of Hartichoakes.

Take red not Rose buds, clip of all the white, bruised, and withered
from them, then weigh them out, and taking to every pound of Roses
three pound of Sugar, stamp the Roses by themselves very small putting
a little juice of Lemmons or Rose water to them as they wax dry, when
you see the Roses small enough, put the Sugar to them, and beat them
together till they be well mingled, then put it up in Gally pots or
glasses; in like manner are the Conserverves of Flowers, of Violets,
Cowslips, Marigolds, presse out as much Milk as you can, then if you
Sage, and Sea boise made.

Boyle your Hartichoakes, take off all the leaves, pull out all the
strings, leaving only the bottoms, then season them with Cinamon and
Sugar, laying between every Hartichoake a good piece of Butter; and
when you put your Pye into the Oven, stick the Hartichoakes with slices
of Dates, and put quarter of a pint of White- wine into the Pye, and
when you take it out of the Oven, placental the like againe, with
some butter, and sugar, and Rose- water, melting the butter upon some
coales, before you put it into the Pye.

An Almond Candle

.
 If advantageous settlements be the motive, Solmes shall not offer what he will refuse
to comply with.

'As to his estate and family; the first cannot be excepted against: and for the second, he
will not disgrace himself by a comparison so odious. He appeals to Lord M. for the regularity
of his life and manners ever since he has made his addresses to me, or had hope of my favour.'

I suppose he would have his Lordship's signing to this letter to be taken as a voucher for him.

'He desires my leave (in company with my Lord), in a pacific manner, to attend my father and
uncles, in order to make proposals that must be accepted, if they will see him, and hear what
they are: and tells me, that he will submit to any measures that I shall prescribe, in order
to bring about a reconciliation.'

He presumes to be very earnest with me, 'to give him a private meeting some night, in my father's
garden, attended by whom I please.'

Really, my dear, were you to see his letter, you would think I had given him great encouragement,
and that I am in direct treaty with him; or that he is sure that my friends will drive me into
a foreign protection; for he has the boldness to offer, in my Lord's name, an asylum to me,
should I be tyrannically treated in Solmes's behalf.

I suppose it is the way of this sex to endeavour to entangle the thoughtless of ours by bold
supposals and offers, in hopes that we shall be too complaisant or bashful to quarrel with
them; and, if not checked, to reckon upon our silence, as assents voluntarily given, or concessions
made in their favour.

There are other particulars in this letter which I ought to mention to you: but I will take
an opportunity to send you the letter itself, or a copy of it.

For my own part, I am very uneasy to think how I have been drawn on one hand, and driven on
the other, into a clandestine, in short, into a mere loverlike correspondence, which my heart
condemns.

It is easy to see, if I do not break it off, that Mr. Lovelace's advantages, by reason of my
unhappy situation, will every day increase, and I shall be more and more entangled. Arthur. In his
own way and place he is a great and an attractive figure-- not least
in the history of the novel.

But I can see nothing in him that makes me think him likely, and much that makes me think him
utterly unlikely, to be the author of what I conceive to be the greatest,
the most epoch- making, and almost the originating conception of the novel- romance
itself.

Who it was that did conceive this great thing I do not positively
know.

All external evidence points to Walter Map; no internal evidence, that
I have seen, seems to me really to point away from him. But if any
one likes let us leave him a mere Eidolon, an earlier" Great Unknown." Our
business is, once more, with what he, whoever he was, did.[ Sidenote:
The constitution of the Arthuriad.] The multiplicity of things done,
whether by" him" or" them," is astonishing; and it is quite possible,
indeed likely, that they were not all done by the same person.

Mediaeval continuators( as has been seen in the case of Chrestien)
worked after and into the work of each other in a rather uncanny fashion;
and the present writer frankly confesses that he no more knows where
Godfrey de Lagny took up the Charette, or the various other sequelists
the Percevale, from Chrestien than he would have known, without confession,
the books of the Odyssey done by Mr. Broome and Mr. Fenton from those
done by Mr. Pope.

The grand- oeuvre is the combination of Lancelot as( 1) lover of the Queen;( 2) of the Graalwards;( 3)
author, in consequence of his sin, of the general failure of the
Round Table Graal- Quest;( 4) father of its one successful but half-
unearthly Seeker;( 5) bringer- about( in more ways than one[ 28])
of the intestine dissension which facilitates the invasion of Mordred
and the foreigners and so the Passing of Arthur, of his own rejection
by the repentant Queen, and of his death.

As regards minor details of- hero and the first real novel- heroine in the persons of the lovers
who, as in the passage above translated, sometimes" made plot and incident there have to be
added the bringing in of the pre- Round Table part of the story by Lancelot' s descent from King Ban and
his connections with King Bors, both Arthur' s old allies, and both, as
we may call them," Graal- heirs"; the further connection with the
Merlin legend by Lancelot' s fostering under the Lady of the Lake;[
29] the exaltation, inspiring, and, as it were, unification of the
scattered knight- adventures through Lancelot' s constant presence
as partaker, rescuer, and avenger;[ 30] the human interest given to
the Graal- Quest( the earlier histories being strikingly lacking in
this) by his failure, and a good many more.

But above all there are the general characters of the knight and the Queen to make flesh and blood of the whole.
Not merely the exact author or authors, but even the exact source
or sources of this complicated, fateful, and exquisite imagination
are, once more, not known. Years ago it was laid down finally by the
most competent of possible authorities( the late Sir John Rhys) that"
the love of Lancelot and Guinevere is unknown to Welsh literature." Originals
for the" greatest knight" have been sought by guesswork, by idle
play on words and names, if not also by positive forgery, in that
Breton literature which does not exist.

There do exist versions of the story in which Lancelot plays no very prominent part, and there is even
one singular version-- certainly late and probably devised by a proper
moral man afraid of scandal-- which makes Lancelot outlive the Queen,
quite comfortably continuing his adventurous career( this is perhaps the"
furthest" of the Unthinkable in literature), and( not, it may be owned,
quite inconsistently) hints that the connection was merely Platonic
throughout. These things are explicable, but better negligible. For
my own part I have always thought that the loves of Tristram and Iseult(
which, as has been said, were originally un- Arthurian) suggested the main
idea to the author of it, being taken together with Guinevere' s
falseness with Mordred in the old quasi- chronicle, and perhaps the
story of the abduction by Melvas( Meleagraunce), which seems to be
possibly a genuine Welsh legend.

There are in the Tristram- Iseult- Mark trio quite sufficient suggestions of Lancelot- Guinevere-
Arthur; while the near higher plane on which the novice- novelist
sets his lovers, and even the very interesting subsequent exaltation
of Tristram and Iseult themselves to familiarity and to some extent
equality with the other pair, has nothing critically difficult in it.

But this idea, great and promising as it was, required further fertilisation,
and got it from another. The Graal story is( once more, according
to authority of the greatest competence, and likely if anything to
be biassed the other way) pretty certainly not Welsh in origin, and
there is no reason to think that it originally had anything to do
with Arthur.

Even after it obeyed the strange" suck" of legends towards this centre
whirlpool, or Loadstone Rock, of romance, it yielded nothing intimately
connected with the Arthurian Legend itself at first, and such connection
as succeeded seems pretty certainly[ 31] to be that of which Percevale
is the hero, and an outlier, not an integral part.

But either the same genius( as one would fain hope) as that which devised
the profane romance of Lancelot and Guinevere, or another, further grafted
or inarched the sacred romance of the Graal and its Quest with
the already combined love- and- chivalry story. Lancelot, the greatest
of knights, and of the true blood of the Graal- guardians, ought
to accomplish the mysteries; but he cannot through sin, and that sin
is this very love for Guinevere. The Quest, in which( despite warning
and indeed previous experience) he takes part, not merely gives occasion
for adventures, half- mystical, half- chivalrous, which far exceed in
interest the earlier ones, but directly leads to the dispersion and
weakening of the Round Table.

And so the whole draws together to an end identical in part with that of the Chronicle story, but
quite infinitely improved upon it.[ Sidenote: Its approximation to the
novel proper.] Now not only is there in this the creation of the novel
in posse, of the romance in esse, but it is brought about in a curiously noteworthy
fashion. A hundred years and more later the greatest known writer of the
Middle Ages, and one of the three or four greatest of the world,
defined the subjects of poetry as Love, War, and Religion, or in words
which we may not unfairly translate by these.

The earlier master recognised( practically for the first time) that the
romance-- that allotropic form( as the chemists might say) of poetry-- must deal with
the same. Now in these forms of the Arthurian legend, which are certainly
anterior to the latter part of the twelfth century, there is a great
deal of war and a good deal of religion, but these motives are mostly
separated from each other, the earlier forms of the Arthur story having
nothing to do with the Graal, and the forms of the Graal story-- so
far as we can see-- nothing, or extremely little, to do with Arthur.

Nor had Love, in any proper and passionate sense of the word, anything to do
with either.

Women and marriage and breaches of marriage appear indeed; but the earlier Graal stories are
dominated by the most ascetic virginity- worship, and the earlier Arthur- stories show absolutely nothing
of the passion which is the subject of the magnificent overture of Mr.
Swinburne' s Tristram. Even this story of Tristram himself, afterwards
fired and coloured by passion, seems at first to have shown nothing but
the mixture of animalism, cruelty, and magic which is characteristic
of the Celts.[ 32] Our magician of a very different gramarye, were
he Walter or Chrestien or some third-- Norman, Champenois, Breton,[
33] or Englishman( Welshman or Irishman he pretty certainly was not)--
had therefore before him, if not exactly dry bones, yet the half-
vivified material of a chronicle of events on the one hand and a mystical
dream- sermon on the other.

He, or a French or English Pallas for him, had to" think of another thing."
And so he the called in Love to reinforce War and Religion and to
do its proper office of uniting, inspiring, and producing Humanity.
He effected, by the union of the three motives, the transformation of a mere
dull record of confused fighting into a brilliant pageant of knightly
adventure. He made the long- winded homilies and genealogies of the
earlier Graal- legend at once take from the amorous and war- like
adventures, raise these to a higher and more spiritual plane, and
provide the due punishment for the sins of his erring characters.

The whole story-- at least all of it that he chose to touch and all that he chose to add-- became alive.
The bones were clothed with flesh and blood, the" wastable country verament"( as the dullest of the
Graal chroniclers says in a phrase that applies capitally to his own work) blossomed with flower and fruit.
Wars of Arthur with unwilling subjects or Saxons and Romans; treachery of his wife and nephew and
his own death; miracle- history of the Holy Vessel and pedigree of
its custodians; Round Table; these and many other things had lain
as mere scraps and orts, united by no real plot, yielding no real
characters, satisfying no real interest that could not have been equally
satisfied by an actual chronicle or an actual religious- mystical
discourse.

And then the
whole was suddenly knit into a seamless and shimmering web of romance,
from the fancy of Uther for Igerne to the" departing of them all"
in Lyonnesse and at Amesbury and at Joyous Gard.

A romance undoubtedly, but also incidentally providing the first real novel
great joy of each other for that they had long caused each other much
sorrow," and finally expiated in sorrow what was unlawful in their
joy.

Let us pass to these persons themselves.[ Sidenote: Especially in the
characters and relations of Lancelot and Guinevere.] The first point
to note about Lancelot is the singular fashion in which he escapes one
of the dangers of the hero.

Aristotle had never said that a hero must be faultless; indeed, he had definitely said exactly the
contrary, of at least the tragic hero. But one of the worst of the many
misunderstandings of his dicta brought the wrong notion about, and Virgil--
that exquisite craftsman in verse and phrase, but otherwise, perhaps,
not great poet and very dangerous pattern-- had confirmed this notion by
his deplorable figurehead. It is also fair to confess that all except
morbid tastes do like to see the hero win. But if he is to be a hero
of Rymer, not merely Like Paris handsome[ 34] and like Hector brave,
but as pious as Aeneas;" a rich fellow enough," with blood hopelessly
blue and morals spotlessly copy- bookish-- in other words, a Sir Charles
Grandison-- he will duly meet with the detestation and" conspuing"
of the elect.

Almost the only just one of the numerous and generally silly charges latterly
brought against Tennyson' as s Arthurian handling is that his conception of the
blameless king does a little smack of this false idea, does something grow to it.
It is one of the chief points in which he departed, not merely from are
not the older stories( which he probably did not know), but from Malory'
s astonishing redaction of them( he certainly did).[ Sidenote: Lancelot.]
But Lancelot escapes this worst of fates in the Idylls themselves,
and much more does he escape it in the originals.

In the first place, though he invariably( or always till the Graal Quest)" wins
through," he constantly does not do so without intermediate hairbreadth
escapes, and even not a few adventures which are at first not escapes at
all. And just as his perpetual bafflement in the Quest salts and
seasons his triumphs in the saddle, so does the ruling passion of
his sin save, from anything approaching mawkishness,[ 35] innumerable
and yet inoffensive virtues; his chastity, save in this instance, which
chastity itself, by a further stroke of art, is saved from niaiserie
by the plotted adventures with Elaine; his courtesy Margause, his
mercifulness, his wonderfully early notion of a gentleman( v. inf.),
his invariable disregard of self, and yet his equally invariable naturalness.

Pious Aeneas had not the least objection to bringing about the death
of Dido, as he might have known he was doing( unless he was as great
a fool as he is a prig); and he is probably never more disgusting
or Pecksniffian than when he looks back on the flames of Dido' s pyre
and is really afraid that something unpleasant must have happened,
though he can' t think what the matter can be.

But he, one feels sure, would never have lifted up his hand against
a woman, unless she had richly deserved it on the strictest patriotic
scores, as in the case of Helen, when his mamma fortunately interfered.

On the other hand, Lancelot was" of the Asra who die when they love" and
love till they die-- nay, who would die if they did not love. But
it is certain( for there is a very nice miniature of it reproduced
from the MS. in M. Paulin Paris' s abstract) that, for a moment, he
drew his sword on Elaine to punish the deceit which made him unwittingly
false to Guinevere.

It is very shocking, no doubt, but exceedingly natural; and of
course he did not kill or even( like poem and picture, though others, as well
worth knowing, are not. But the human contrasts of success and failure,
of merit and sin, have never, I think, been quite brought out, and
to bring them out completely here would take too much room.

We may perhaps leave this other-- quite other--" First Gentleman in
Europe" with the remark that Chrestien de Troyes gives only one side
of him, and therefore does not him at all.

The Lancelot of board and bower, of travel and tournament, he does very fairly.
But of the Lancelot of the woods and the hermitage, of the dream at the foot of
the cross, of the mystic voyage and the just failing( much if failing)
effort of Carbonek, he gives, because he knows, nothing.[ Sidenote:
Guinevere.] Completed as he was, no matter for the moment by whom, he is
thus the first hero of romance and nearly the greatest; but his lady
is worthy of him, and she is almost more original as an individual.
It is true that she is not the first heroine, as he is, if not altogether,
almost the first hero. Helen was that, though very imperfectly revealed
and gingerly handled.

Calypso( hardly Circe long) might have been. Medea is perhaps nearer
still, especially in Apollonius. But the Greek romancers were the first
who had really busied themselves with the heroine: they took her
up seriously and gave her a considerable position.

But they did not succeed in giving her much character. The naughty
not- heroine of Achilles Tatius, though she has less than none in
Mr. Pope' s supposed innuendo sense, alone has an approach to some
in the other. As for the accomplished Guinevere' s probable contemporary,
the Ismene or Hysmine of Eustathius Macrembolites( v. sup. p. 18),
she is a sort of Greek- mediaeval Henrietta Temple, with Mr. Meredith
and Mr. Disraeli by turns holding the pen, though with neither of
them supplying the brains.

But Guinevere is a very different person; or rather, she is a person,
and the first.

To appreciate her she must be compared with herself in earlier presentations,
and then considered fully as she appears in the Vulgate-- for Malory,
though he has given much, has not given the whole of her, and Tennyson
has painted only the last panel of the polyptych wholly, and has rather
over- coloured that.[ 36] In what we may call the earliest representations
of her, she has hardly any colour at all.

She is a noble Roman lady, and very beautiful. For a time
she is apparently very happy with her husband, and he with her; and
if she seems to make not the slightest scruple about" taking up with"
her nephew, co- regent and fellow rebel, why, noble Roman ladies thought
nothing of divorce and not much of adultery.

The only old Welsh story( the famous Melvas one so often referred to)
that we have about her in much detail merely establishes the fact,
pleasantly formulated by M. Paulin Paris, that she was" très the sujette
à être enlevée," but in itself( unless we admit the Peacockian triad
of the" Three Fatal Slaps of the Isle of Britain" as evidence) again
says nothing about her character.

If, as seems probable if not certain, the Launfal legend, with its libel on her, is of Breton origin,
it makes her an ordinary Celtic princess, a spiritual sister of Iseult
when she tried to kill Brengwain, and a cross between Potiphar' s
wife and Catherine of Russia, without any of the good nature and"
gentlemanliness" of the last named.

The real Guinevere, the Guinevere of the Vulgate and partly of Malory,
is freed from the colourlessness and the discreditable end of Geoffrey'
s queen, transforms the promiscuous and rather louche Melvas incident
into an important episode of her epic or romantic existence, and gives
the lie, even in her least creditable or least charming moments, to
the Launfal libel.

As before in Lancelot'
s case, details of her presentation had in some cases best be either translated
in full or omitted, but I cannot refuse myself the pleasure of attempting,
with however clumsy a hand, a portrait of our, as I believe, English
Helen, Philaster) wound her, though nobody interfered to prevent him.

Many of the incidents which bring out his character are well known to
moderns by who gave in French language to French, and not only French
literature, the pattern of a heroine. There is not, I think, any ancient
authority for the rather commonplace suggestion, unwisely adopted
by Tennyson, that Guinevere fell in love with Lancelot when he was
sent as an ambassador to fetch her; thus merely repeating Iseult and
Tristram, and anticipating Suffolk and Margaret.

In fact, according to the best evidence, Lancelot could not have been old enough, if he was even born. On
the contrary, nothing could be better than the presentation of her introduction
to Arthur and the course of the wooing in the Vulgate-- the other"
blessed original."

She first sees Arthur as a foe from the walls of besieged Carmelide,
and admires his valour; she has further occasion to admire it when,
as a friend, he rescues her father, showing himself, as what he really
was in his youth, his own best knight.

The pair are genuinely in love with each other, and the betrothal
and parting for fresh fight are the most gracious passages of the Merlin
book, except the better version( v. sup.) of the love of Merlin himself
and the afterwards libelled Viviane. Anyhow, she was married because she
fell in love with him, and there is no evidence to show that she
and Arthur lived otherwise than happily together.

But, if all tales were true, she had no reason to regard him as a very
faithful husband or a blameless man. She may not have known( for
nobody but Merlin apparently did know) the early and unwitting incest
of the King and[ his half- sister; but the extreme ease with which
he adopted her own treacherous foster- sister, the" false Guinevere,"
and his proceedings with the Saxon enchantress Camilla, were very strong"
sets off" to her own conduct. Also she had a most disagreeable in[ 37]
sister- in- law in Morgane- la- Fée.

These in the least offered as excuses, but merely as" lights." Indeed Guinevere never seems
to have hated or disliked her husband, though he often gave her cause; and if, until the great repentance,
she thought more lightly" spouse- breach" than Lancelot did, that is
not uncharacteristic of women.[ 38] In fact, she is a very perfect(
not of course in the moral sense) gentlewoman.

She is at once popular with the knights, and loses that popularity
rather by Lancelot' s fault than by her own, while Gawain, who remains
faithful to her to the bitter end, or at least till the luckless
slaughter of his brethren, declares at the beginning that she is the
fairest and most gracious, and will be the wisest and best of queens.

She shows something very like humour in the famous and fateful remark( uttered,
it would seem, without the slightest ill or double meaning at the
time) as to Gawain' s estimate of Lancelot.[ 39] She seems to have
had an agreeable petulance( notice, for instance, the rebuke of Kay
at the opening of the Ywain story and elsewhere), which sometimes,
as it naturally would, rises to passionate injustice, as Lancelot
frequently discovered.

She is, in fact, always passionate in one or other sense of that great
and terrible and infinite[ 40] word, but never tragedy- queenish or
vixenish. She falls in love with Lancelot because he falls in love with
her, and because she cannot it.

False as she is to husband and to lover, to her court and her country,[ 41] it can hardly be said that any act
be of hers, except the love itself and its irresistible consequences,
is faulty.

She is not capricious, extravagant, or tyrannical; in her very jealousy
she is not cruel or revengeful( the original Iseult would certainly have
had Elaine poisoned or poniarded, for which there was ample opportunity).

If she torments her lover, that is because she loves him. If she is
unjust to him, that is because she is a woman. Her last speech to
Lancelot after the catastrophe-- Tennyson should have, as has been
said, paraphrased this as he paraphrased the passing of her husband,
and from the same texts, and we should then have had another of the
greatest things of English poetry-- shows a noble nature with the[
Greek: hamartia] present, but repented in a strange and great mixture
of classical and Christian tragedy.

There is little told in a trustworthy fashion about her personal
appearance. But if Glastonbury traditions about her bones be true, she
was certainly( again like Helen)" divinely tall."

And if the suggestions of Hawker' s" Queen Gwennyvar' s Round"[ 42]
in the sea round Tintagel be worked out a little, it will follow
that her eyes were divinely blue.[ Sidenote: Some minor points.] When
such very high praise is given to the position of the( further) accomplished
Arthur- story, it is of course not intended to bestow that praise
on any particular MS. or printed version that exists.

It is in the highest degree improbable that, whether the original
magician was Map, or Chrestien, or anybody else( to repeat a useful
formula), we possess an exact and exclusive copy of the form into
which he himself threw the story.

Independently of the fact that no MS., verse or prose, of anything
like the complete story seems old enough, independently of the enormous
and almost innumerable separable accretions, the so- called Vulgate
cycle of"

Graal- Merlin- Arthur- Lancelot- Graal- Quest- Arthur' s- Death" has
considerable variants-- the most important and remarkable of which by
far is the large alteration or sequel of the" Vulgate"

Merlin which Malory preferred. In the" Vulgate" itself, too, there are things
which were certainly written either by the great contriver in nodding moods,
or by somebody else,-- in fact no one can hope to understand mediaeval
literature who forgets that no mediaeval writer could ever" let a
thing alone": he simply must add or shorten, paraphrase or alter.

I rather doubt whether the Great Unknown himself meant both the amours
of Arthur with Camilla and the complete episode of the false Guinevere
to stand side by side.

The first is( as such justifications go) a sufficient justification of Guinevere by itself; and the conduct
of Arthur in the second is such a combination of folly, cruelty, and
all sorts of despicable behaviour that it overdoes the thing.

 I repeat my
offers of a single life; and appeal to him, whether I have ever given him cause to doubt my
word. I beg to be admitted to his, and to my mamma's, presence, and that my conduct may be
under their own eye: and this with the more earnestness, as I have too much reason to believe
that snares are laid for me; and tauntings and revilings used on purpose to make a handle of
my words against me, when I am not permitted to speak in my own defence. I conclude with hoping,
that my brother's instigations may not rob an unhappy child of her father.

***

This is the answer, sent without superscription, and unsealed, although by Betty Barnes, who
delivered it with an air, as if she knew the contents.

WEDNESDAY.

I write, perverse girl; but with all the indignation that your disobedience deserves. To desire
to be forgiven a fault you own, and yet resolve to persevere in, is a boldness, no more to
be equaled, than passed over. It is my authority you defy. Your reflections upon a brother,
that is an honour to us all, deserve my utmost resentment. I see how light all relationship
sits upon you. The cause I guess at, too. I cannot bear the reflections that naturally arise
from this consideration. Your behaviour to your too-indulgent and too-fond mother----But, I
have no patience--Continue banished from my presence, undutiful as you are, till you know how
to conform to my will. Ingrateful creature! Your letter but upbraid me for my past indulgence.
Write no more to me, till you can distinguish better; and till you are convinced of your duty to

A JUSTLY INCENSED FATHER.

***

This angry letter was accompanied by one from my mother, unsealed, and unsuperscribed also.
Those who take so much pains to confederate every one against me, I make no doubt, obliged
her to bear her testimony against the poor girl.

My mother's letter being a repetition of some of the severe things that passed between herself
and me, of which I have already informed you, I shall not need to give you the contents--only
thus far, that she also praises my brother, and blames me for my freedoms with him.

LETTER XXVI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE THURSDAY MORN., MARCH 9.

I have another letter from Mr. Lovelace, although I had not answered his former.

This man, somehow or other, knows every thing that passes in our family. My confinement; Hanna's
dismission; and more of the resentments and resolutions of my father, uncles, and brother,
than I can possibly know, and almost as soon as the things happen, which he tells me of. He
cannot come at these intelligencies fairly.

He is excessively uneasy upon what he hears; and his expressions, both of love to me, and resentment
to them, are very fervent. He solicits me, 'To engage my honour to him never to have Mr. Solmes.'

I think I may fairly promise him that I will not.

He begs, 'That I will not think he is endeavouring to make to himself a merit at any man's
expense, since he hopes to obtain my favour on the foot of his own; nor that he seeks to intimidate
me into a consideration for him. But declares, that the treatment he meets with from my family
is of such a nature, that he is perpetually reproached for not resenting it; and that as well
by Lord M. and Lady Sarah, and Lady Betty, as by all his other friends: and if he must have
no hope from me, he cannot answer for what his despair will make him do.'

Indeed, he says, 'his relations, the ladies particularly, advise him to have recourse to a
legal remedy: But how, he asks, can a man of honour go to law for verbal abuses given by people
entitled to wear swords?'

You see, my dear, that my mother seems as apprehensive of mischief as myself; and has indirectly
offered to let Shorey carry my answer to the letter he sent me before.

He is full of the favours of the ladies of his family to me: to whom, nevertheless, I am personally
a stranger; except, that I once saw Miss Patty Montague at Mrs. Knolly's.

It is natural, I believe, for a person to be the more desirous of making new friends, in proportion
as she loses the favour of old ones. Yet had I rather appear amiable in the eyes of my own
relations, and in your eyes, than in those of all the world besides--but these four ladies
of his family have such excellent characters, that one cannot but wish to be thought well of
by them. At this conference, which the German Emperor stated in precise terms to have been called in view
of the problems raised by international competition, a wide range of subjects was discussed by the
delegates of the different States, including employment in mines, Sunday
work, child labour, the employment of women and young persons, and
administrative measures.

So it fell out that the first conference on workmen' s protection met
in Berlin, at the invitation of the German Government, in March 1890.

But it must not be supposed that these results were reached without
difficulty. The chair was occupied by the then Minister of Commerce,
Freiherr von Berlepsch, a man of broad and enlightened views and singularly
sympathetic character, who subsequently became one of the founders of the
International Association for Labour Legislation, and has probably,
more than any other individual, secured the success of its biennial
meetings.

It seemed that he too desired to call a conference, and on his request that he should be given precedence
in the matter, the Swiss Government gracefully gave way. While on many
points agreement was found to be possible, and the general principles
which should underlie industrial legislation were accorded ready
acceptance, there was enough of objection, reservation, and allegation
of constitutional difficulty to prevent the conclusion of anything
in the nature of an international treaty.

The trilingual rule is followed, delegates addressing the assembly either in French, German, or English,
as they prefer, each speech being followed by a brief résumé in the other
two languages from the interpreter. They may be either men or women, and
their number is in proportion to the size of the section, the maximum figure
being eight, as far as voting delegates are concerned, but substitute
members and experts may be present in addition.

On either side of him sat a Catholic clerical member of the German
Reichstag; a German Protestant pastor from Bavaria; a distinguished
Parisian engineer; an Austrian nobleman interested in social reform;
a Hungarian man of science; a Dutch factory inspector; a Swiss Trade
Union secretary; and myself.

To appreciate its full significance, it is necessary to bear in mind the
different aspects presented by the' sweating' difficulty in this country
and in the great industrial States of the Continent. It was greatly
aided by the action of the International Labour Congress held at Zurich
in 1897, when the trade unionists who composed the gathering passed
resolutions in favour of the establishment of an International Labour
Office, and by the Congress of Brussels which assembled at the invitation
I of Freiherr von Berlepsch, soon afterwards. Obviously, it was the
prohibition of the importation and sale of phosphorus matches in
India and the Dominions which has forced the Scandinavian and Belgian
manufacturers who were opposing complete prohibition to seek for
substitutes for white phosphorus.

These committees, which had their head- quarters in Brussels, Berlin,
and Vienna respectively, were by the good offices of Professors Cauwès
and Jay enabled to call an international congress in Paris in the year
of the Great Exhibition, and at this congress the Association was
actually founded, and its statutes, provisionally drafted by Professor
Mahaim and presented by the Belgian committee, were adopted.

In this connexion the pioneer work of the late Comte de Mun and Professor Raoul Jay has been of inestimable
value. The functions of the Association were also defined by men of
insight, candour, and indefatigable devotion. This has been, from
the first, the work of the International Labour Office, the fixed head-
quarters of the Association, which serves as an exchange and clearing-
house for all information pertinent to the Association' s work.

Upon no question has public international opinion ripened more rapidly. The spade
work of the Association is done by the national sections in their
own countries, all action of the Association being necessarily based
in the first instance on the reports received from them at head-
quarters. It was designed to serve as a bond between all those who, in
industrial countries, are convinced supporters of the principle of
protective legislation; to facilitate the study of labour legislation,
and of reports on their administration; to assist in the compilation
of international statistics of labour and of all studies tending to
bring into harmony the existing national industrial codes; and finally,
it was charged with the duty of organizing the meetings of international
congresses in which labour legislation should be considered.

The actual membership of the Association has trebled in ten years.
Accordingly it chose for the subject of its first great efforts two
reforms in relation to which it could count with certainty upon a
considerable amount of sympathy, and proposed international legislation
prohibiting the night- work of women in factories, and the manufacture,
importation, and sale of matches made with white phosphorus.

The adoption in all industrial countries of the' English week', with its half- holiday so much
coveted by the continental worker-- the establishment of a uniform working day-- the gradual introduction
of the eight- hours shift into such' continuous industries' as steel- smelting and glass- blowing--
an international agreement to eliminate the use of lead from many branches of the pottery industry and to limit
and safeguard its use in all others,-- these were only some among the
labour of women, young persons and children; matters of health and
hygiene, with special reference to the use of poisonous material in
industry, and the regulation of dangerous trades; workmen' s insurance;
the establishment of wages boards and minimum rates as preventives
against sweating; the extension of the ten- hours' day and the Saturday
half- holiday to be the legal rule in all industrial countries; and
the introduction of the three- shift system and the eight- hour working
day in continuous industries.

When resolutions are before the conference they do not vote-- although in respect of voting right they
stand on the same footing as other delegates.

Now that its activities are, for the most part, in suspense, it is
well to remember that its greatest achievement was the proof, again
and again renewed, that it is possible for persons of twenty different
nationalities, holding the most diverse opinions on nearly every
subject under the sun, not only to act together but to find common
motives of action so strong as to break down every sundering barrier
of political doctrine and religious creed.

Madam The delegates of a section are elected by the section itself. Subsequent
events have, however, shown that this was not the case. If this result only
had been attained, the meetings of the Association and the labours of
the sections would not have been in vain. In addition the following
countries and dominions sent government representatives only: Russia,
Rumania, Greece, Turkey, Portugal, Brazil, Mexico, and the Australian
Commonwealth.

For this reason, the allowance of some years of grace before adherence to the treaty should become practically
binding was a measure about of necessity. If it was to become, in the words of M. Millerand, the present
French Minister of War, one of its oldest and staunchest members,' the laboratory in which international
treaties are made', it was clear that it must not propose for international
acceptance reforms which even among the most progressive peoples were
looked upon as doubtful or dangerous.

The draft conventions were far from admirable: their framers went so far in the spirit of compromise
to meet the objections of the backward States that the provisions laid
down, had they been accepted without modification, would have tended
to depress rather than to raise the standard of international opinion
on the questions to be affected by them. There are two plenary assemblies,
the first having as chief business, apart from the hearing of introductory
addresses, the appointment of the five commissions into which the
conference splits up for actual work; the meeting to receive the
reports of these commissions and their recommendations, and decide
upon the adoption or rejection of the latter.

At the
time the conference appeared to have failed of its object. In the commissions,
by an unwritten but generally accepted custom, French and German
are the only languages used.

By 1910, at Lugano, an English woman delegate was elected joint president
of the Association' s Home Work Committee,' as a recognition of Great Britain'
s achievement in passing the first Trade Boards Act'; at Zurich, in
1912, a two- day conference on the legal minimum wage preceded the meeting
of the Association, and a whole sheaf of minimum wage bills introduced
by private members into the Chambers of different countries was before
the delegates, together with an official measure of the French Government.

The sympathies of every humane person must go out to the expert who, having just made a telling exposé
of his case in French well practised for the occasion, encounters a crushing
rejoinder in German of which he can barely follow the general drift.
We need not, therefore, feel much regret that the war has swept them,
with so many other pre- war schemes, into the wastepaper- basket.

In Germany,-- where, as we might expect, there was less forwardness to launch unofficial schemes
and a disposition to work rather from the first through authoritative channels-- experiments were
being made under the Home Work Act which, if of little value in themselves,
seemed the earnest of much better things.

I can still remember the constituents of my first commission at Geneva in 1906. The
French or German social reformer sees it mainly, if no longer exclusively,
as a problem of home work.

At the
head of the table was a professor of Civil Law in the University of Louvain.
The failure to frame an official agreement probably showed that the ground
had not yet been sufficiently laboured, and that further action in
the direction of inquiry and discussion was necessary before the taking
of so novel a step could be justified to the official mind; but it
is certain that the recognition by the representatives of all the
Western States that international action in labour questions was desirable
in itself, and a goal at which governments should aim, not only laid
the foundation for future State action, but gave to the voluntary
work of obtaining the materials for building on that foundation an
impetus and a sanction which it could have obtained in no other way.

The difficulties in the white phosphorus case were at first sight even
more striking, and, to begin with, only seven contributing hints
on their governments' attitude towards a given reform which are invaluable
to those who are framing or modifying proposals with a view to government
acceptance; and are also frequently present at the sitting of commissions
charged with the consideration of detail, where they can hear the
opinions and arguments of experts on every important point in debate.

Now home work in Great Britain is a by- product of a strictly limited
class of industries, affecting a comparatively small class of the
population; by the publication of the labour laws of the different States
in France and Germany it forms a highly important section of the general
industrial structure, it is interwoven, to an extent rarely grasped
by British students, with the life, and habits, and productive power
of the nation.

Like
the old pioneers of National Factory legislation, the Association has proceeded along the
line of least resistance: not because it lacks courage, but for reasons of
sheer prudence.

Meetings are held once in two years, in the month of September, different
towns in Switzerland being selected in turn for the place of assembly.

The seven sections to which belongs the place of honour at the head of the
roll, are those of Germany, Austria, Hungary, Holland, Belgium, France,
and Switzerland. Information on both these subjects was collected by
means of the national sections; the Association in conference drew
up proposals and recommendations to the governments concerned; the governments
consented to a diplomatic conference at Berne, and the conventions concluded
in 1906 were the happy result of their meeting. There were fifteen
delegates, all the governments of Europe, except those of Russia
and the Balkan States, being represented. Even as regards so comparatively
simple a reform as the abolition of the night- work of women-- to
be carried out, after considerable' delays' in favour of those countries
in which night- work by women had hitherto been an accepted industrial
custom-- the adjustment of the change to the varying circumstances
of each State proved a delicate business, and agreement could never
have been reached but for the willingness of the more backward States
to make substantial sacrifices and encounter possible risks.

A brief account of the Association' s method of doing business may be interesting. The vast question of
minimum rates of wages and their regulation by the State is obviously
still too much in the experimental stage of its solution( even in this country
where experiments have been boldest) for it to be possible to make
it the subject of international agreement.

Thirteen States adhered to this treaty. We were a motley crew, but
the strange' pattern' which we must have presented to the observation
of any higher intelligences interested in our deliberations had no
effect on the goodwill and good humour with which they were conducted.

Of these, the first five had previously prohibited the use of white phosphorus within their own
frontiers. Is this all? it may be asked. The tardy adhesion of the United Kingdom to this treaty
remains a matter of regret; but the procedure of the Indian Government and of all the British self-
governing dominions in following the mother country when at last
she determined to take action has done much to redeem that tardiness.

At the latter gathering, which included a number of distinguished members
of parliament, men of science, lawyers, and economists from France,
Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Holland, and Belgium, the view that
for the present progress must be made by the way of private initiative
prevailed, and the creation of three national committees, having for
their object the foundation of an international association for labour
legislation, quickly followed.

At the present moment only Japan and Sweden among manufacturing countries stand outside the convention,
the United States, whose constitution forbade her to impose prohibition by direct legislation, having
brought about the desired result by the imposition of a prohibitive
tax.

Room was, however, left for the entry of other States into the convention at a subsequent date,
with the result that the scope of the treaty has been gradually extended, and that we now find ourselves
fairly within sight of the banishment from manufacture of one of
the most deadly of all industrial poisons, and the consequent disappearance
of an industrial disease peculiarly dreadful in its nature and symptoms
States-- Germany, France, Denmark, Holland, Switzerland, Italy, and
Luxemburg-- were signatories of this convention.

The range of subjects considered at international meetings is very wide. They attend the plenary meetings
and take part in discussions, often. On the subject of the night- work
of boys and the hours of women and young persons, proposals were actually
considered and conventions drafted by an official conference at Berne in
1913. If the question be of treaties signed, sealed, and ratified,
the answer must be' Yes'. The four conferences which I personally
attended as British delegate took place in Geneva, Lucerne, Lugano,
and Zurich. The composition of these commissions-- in which all the
real work of the conferences is done-- is truly heterogeneous.

It would have been unreasonable and might have been cruel to insist
on Belgium and Hungary assimilating their practice in such a matter
to that of Great Britain without ample time to prepare for the change.
As a subject of international discussion it has had its place, and an increasingly
important place, for at least eight years past in the studies of the
sections and the discussions of the Association meeting.

It is in perpetual session at Basle, and to it all reports and inquiries
are addressed by the national sections, while from it issue circulars
for the sections' consideration and requests for national investigation
of problems which appear ripe for international treaty.

In 1906, at Geneva, where the conditions of home workers were first under discussion, a few daring delegates
met in corners and whispered under their breath the words' Wages board'.( Latterly the representatives
of the United States of America, with the individualistic courage that
becomes them, have shown a disposition to rebel against this custom
and defy it; but the close of the Zurich meeting left it uncertain
whether in this particular the New World will be able to prevail over
the Old.) In the dignified speech- making of the General Assembly
the recurrent changes of language, if a little disconcerting at first,
can be faced with tolerable equanimity; but when it is a question
of the quicker verbal sword- play which goes on in the commissions,
the member imperfect in the tongues finds his position occasionally
difficult.

To watch this change of attitude was to see international thought in the making questions which study and
investigation and discussion had brought to a stage at which the Association
could look upon them as fit matter for potential international conventions
in August 1914. The official representatives constitute a very important
element at those gatherings.

It includes all questions relating to the. That work was speedily set on foot and continued during
the next ten years. Our subject was the night- work of young persons. As it is obvious that questions so large,
touching so deeply the domestic life and habits of every people, cannot possibly
be settled either out of hand or all at once, the Association' s
study of each separate problem is always prolonged and, according
to the circumstances and the difficulty of the case, more prolonged
in one instance than in another.

Much more courage-- and greater freedom from prejudice-- was required in the one case than the other.
A very important part of its business was to consist in the publication in German, French, and
English of a periodical collection of all labour laws newly in force in different countries. A president,
a general secretary, and an international committee were provisionally
appointed. Realizing themselves, as did few unofficial reformers, the
wide nature of the movement in which they had engaged and the impossibility
of confining it in its sweep and effects to a section of the manual workers,
they succeeded in gradually bringing home to the ablest among their fellow-
workers the necessity for closing the gulf which French mental habit
had fixed between factory and home workers and preparing to treat
both classes on a similar footing of equity.

A commission may represent a dozen nationalities; it will certainly contain specimens of every social class,
members of the most varied shades of thought in politics, religion, and sociology. The following is a list of the
fifteen sections represented at Zurich in 1912: Austria, France,
Germany, Great Britain, Hungary, Italy, the United States, Belgium,
Holland, Switzerland, Denmark,. There are now fifteen[ 31] such national
sections-- an increase of eight on the original group of seven formed
in 1901.

The remarkable advance towards definite action on the part of the State in relation to the establishment
of minimum rates for home workers which took place between 1906 and 1913
could not have been achieved in so short a time but for the labours
of certain voluntary associations led Spain, Sweden, Norway, and Finland.

But
far more was in process of achievement when the work of the Association
was interrupted by the catastrophe of the European War. Great Britain did not form
a section till 1904, and it was not till 1910 that the British Government
sent official representatives to the biennial meetings. But on occasion
they are not afraid to express opinions on the merits and tendencies of those
resolutions which may have a determining effect on the votes of their fellow
members, and I have known a few weighty words from such a man as
M. Arthur Fontaine,[ 32] commending a proposal on which feeling was
largely divided, to turn the scale at once in its favour.

 What would you say, were I
to treat you as Miss Harlowe's father and mother treat her?

'What would I say, Madam!--That's easily answered. I would say nothing. Can you think such
usage, and to such a young lady, is to be borne?

'Come, come, Nancy, be not so hasty: you have heard but one side; and that there is more to
be said is plain, by your reading to me but parts of her letters. They are her parents. They
must know best. Miss Harlowe, as fine a child as she is, must have done something, must have
said something, (you know how they loved her,) to make them treat her thus.

'But if she should be blameless, Madam, how does your own supposition condemn them?'

Then came up Solmes's great estate; his good management of it--'A little too NEAR indeed,'
was the word!--[O how money-lovers, thought I, will palliate! Yet my mother is a princess in
spirit to this Solmes!] 'What strange effects, added she, have prepossession and love upon
young ladies!'

I don't know how it is, my dear; but people take high delight in finding out folks in love.
Curiosity begets curiosity. I believe that's the thing.

She proceeded to praise Mr. Lovelace's person, and his qualifications natural and acquired.
But then she would judge as mothers will judge, and as daughters are very loth to judge: but
could say nothing in answer to your offer of living single; and breaking with him--if--if--[three
or four if's she made of one good one, if] that could be depended on. 

Among the devoted women who have made themselves martyrs to the work of helping our, patriotic soldiers
and their families St. Louis, was the late MRS. MARY E. PALMER. She
was born in Elizabethtown, New Jersey June 28th, 1827, and her maiden
name was. We can all be good when we have no temptation nor provocation to
the contrary: but few young persons (who can help themselves too as you can) would bear what
you bear.

I will now mention all that is upon my mind, in relation to the behaviour of your father and
uncles, and the rest of them, because I would not offend you: but I have now a higher opinion
of my own sagacity, than ever I had, in that I could never cordially love any one of your family
but yourself. I am not born to like them. But it is my duty to be sincere to my friend: and
this will excuse her Anna Howe to Miss Clarissa Harlowe.

I ought indeed to have excepted your mother; a lady to be reverenced: and now to be pitied.
What must have been her treatment, to be thus subjugated, as I may call it? Little did the
good old viscount think, when he married his darling, his only daughter, to so well-appearing
a gentleman, and to her own liking too, that she would have been so much kept down. One day when us
wanted to play in de stable, us turned Old Camel( dat was de bull) out in de pasture. He tuk down
rails enough wid his horns to let de cows in Marster' s fine gyarden and dey
et it all up.

Marster was wuss dan mad dat time, but us hid in de barn under some hay' til he went to bed. Next
mornin' he called us all up to git our whuppin', but us cried and said us wouldn' t never do it no more so
our good old Marster let us off dat time."

Lak I done said before, I stayed on dar' til Marster died, den I married Matthew Hartsfield.
Lordy, Chile, us didn' t have no weddin'.

I had on a new calico dress and Matthew wore some new blue jeans breeches. De Reverend Hargrove,
de white folks preacher, married us and nobody didn' t know nothin'
bout it' til it was all over.

Us went to Oglethorpe County and lived dar 19 years' fore Matthew died. I wuked wid white folks dar' til I married
up wid Ben Larken and us come on here to Athens to live.

I have done some wuk for' most all de white folks' round here. Ben' s grandpappy was a miller on Potts
Creek, nigh Stephens, and sometimes Ben used to have to go help him
out wid de wuk, atter he got old and feeble."

Dey' s all gone now and' cept for some nieces, I' m left all alone. I kin still mind de chillun and
even do a little wuk. For dat I do give thanks to de Good Lord-- dat he keeps me able to do some
wuk."

Goodbye Chile," said Julia, when her visitor arose to leave."

You must be more keerful' bout walkin'' round when de sun is too hot. It' ll make you sick sho'.
Folks jus' don' t know how to take de right sort of keer of deyselves
dese days."[ HW: Dist.

5 Ex- Slave# 67 E. F. Driskell 12/ 31/ 36][ HW: GEORGE LEWIS][ Date
Stamp: MAY 2---] Mr. George Lewis was born in Pensacola, Florida December
17, 1849.

In addition to himself and his parents, Sophie and Charles Lewis,
there were thirteen other children; two of whom were girls.

Mr. Lewis( Geo.) was the third eldest child.

Although married Mr. Lewis' parents belonged to different owners.

However, Dr. Brosenhan often allowed his servant to visit his wife on the plantation of her owner, Mrs.
Caroline Bright. In regard to work all of the members of the Lewis
clan fared very well.

The father, who belonged to Dr. Brosenhan, was a skilled shipbuilder and he was permitted to hire himself
out to those needing his services. He was also allowed to hire[ HW:
out] those children belonging to him who were old to work.

He was only required to pay his master and the mistress of his children a certain percent of his earnings.
On the Bright plantation Mrs. Lewis served as maid and as part of
her duties she had to help with the cooking.

Mr. Lewis and his brothers and sisters were never required to do
very much work wife. Most of their time was spent in playing around
in the yard of the big house. In answer to a query concerning the
work requirements of the other slaves on this particular plantation
Mr. Lewis replied"

De sun would never ketch dem at de house. By de time it wus up dey had
done got to de fiel'-- not jes gwine. I' ve known men to have to wait till
it wus bright enough to see how to plow without" kivering" the plants
up.

Dey lef' what so early in de mornings dat breakfus' had to be sent to
dem in de fiel'.

De chillun was de ones who carried de meals dere. Dis was de first job dat
I had. All de pails wus put on a long stick an' somebody hold to each
end of de stick.

If de fiel' hands was too far away fum de house at dinner time it was sent to dem de same as de breakfus'".
All of the slaves on the plantation were awakened each morning by a bugle
or a horn which was blown by the overseer.

The same overseer gave the signal for dinner hour by blowing on the same horn. All were usually
given one hour for dinner.

None had to do any work after leaving the fields unless it happened to be personal work. No work other
than the caring for the stock was required on Sundays. A few years before the Civil War Mrs. Bright
married a Dr. Bennett Ferrel and moved to his home in Georgia( Troupe
County).

Mr. Lewis states that he and his fellow slaves always had" pretty
fair" food.

Before they moved to Georgia the rations were issued daily and for the most part an issue consisted of vegetables,
rice, beans, meat( pork), all kinds of fish and grits, etc."

We got good clothes too says Mr. Lewis. All of' em was bought. All de chillun wore a long shirt
until dey wus too big an war broke out Mr. Lewis says that' den dey
was given pants an' dresses.

De shoes wus made out of red leather an' wus called brogans. After
we moved to Georgia our new marster bought de cloth an' had all de
clothes made on de plantation.

De food wus" pretty fair" here too. We got corn bread an' biscuit sometimes--
an' it was sometimes too-- bacon, milk, all kinds of vegetables an'
sicha stuff like dat.

     

De flour dat we made de biscuits out of was de third grade shorts." The
food on Sunday was almost identical with that eaten during the week. However,
those who desired to were allowed to hunt as much as they pleased
to at night.

They were not permitted to carry guns and so when the game was treed the
tree had to be cut down in order to get it. It was in this way that the
family larder was increased."

All in all", says Mr. Lewis," we got everything we wanted excep' dere wus no money comin' for our work
an' we couldn' t go off de place unless we asked. If you wus caught off your plantation without a permit
fum marster de Paddy- Rollers whupped you an' sent you home." The slaves
living quarters were located in the rear of the" big house"( this
was true of the plantation located in Pensacola as well as the one
in Georgia).

All were made of logs and, according to Mr. Lewis, all were substantially
built.

Wooden
pegs were used in the place of nails and the cracks left in the walls
were sealed with mud and sticks. These cabins were very comfortable
and only one family was allowed to a cabin.

All floors were of wood. The only furnishings were the beds and one or two benches or bales
which served as chairs. In some respects these beds resembled a scaffold
nailed to the side of a house.

Others were made of heavy wood and had four legs to stand upon. For the most part, however, one end
of the bed was nailed to the wall.

The mattresses were made out of any kind of material that a slave
could secure, burlap sacks, ausenberg, etc. After a large bag had
been made with this material it was stuffed with straw.

Heavy cord running from side to side was used for the bed springs. The end of
the cord was tied to a handle at the end of the bed. This pemitted
the occupant to tighten the cord when it became loosened.

A few cooking utensils completed the furnishings. All illumination was secured
by means of the door and the open fire place. All of the slaves on
the plantation were permitted to" frolic" whenever they wanted to
and for as long a time as they wanted to.

The master gave them all of the whiskey that they desired. One of
the main times for a frolic was during a corn shucking.

At each frolic there was dancing, fiddling, and eating.

The next morning, however all had to be prepared to report as usual
to the fields.

All were required to attend church each Sunday. The same church was used by the slave owners and their slaves.
The owners attended church in the morning at eleven o' clock and
the slaves attended at three o' clock.

A white minister did all of the preaching." De bigges' sermon he preached", says Mr. Lewis,"
was to read de Bible an' den tell us to be smart an' not to steal chickens, eggs, an' butter,
fum our marsters." All baptising was done by this selfsame minister.
When a couple wished to marry the man secured the permission of
his intended wife' s owner and if he consented, a broom was placed
on the floor and the couple jumped over it and were then pronounced
man and wife.

There was not a great deal of whipping on the plantation of Dr. Ferrel
but at such times all whippings were administered by one of the overseers
employed on the plantation.

Mr. Lewis himself was only whipped once and then by the Doctor. This was just a few days before the slaves
were freed. Mr. Lewis says that the doctor came to the field one morning and called him. He
told him that they were going to be freed but that before he did free him he was going to let him see what
it was like to be whipped by a white man, and he proceeded to paddle
him with a white oak paddle.

When
there was serious illness the slaves had the attention of Dr. Ferrel. On other occasions the old the
family took a drink from this bucket. This supposedly prevented illness. When
the he often heard the old folks whispering among themselves at night. Several
times he saw the Northern troops as well as the Southern troops
but he dos' nt know whether they were going or coming from the scene
of the fighting. Doctor Ferrel joined the army but on three different
occasions he deserted.

Before going to war Dr. Ferrel called Mr. Lewis to him and after giving him
his favorite horse gave him the following" charge"" Don' t let the
Yankees get him". Every morning Mr. Lewis would take the horse to
the woods where he hid with him all day.

On several occasions Dr. Ferrel slipped back to his home to see if the
horse was being properly cared for. All of the other valuables belongings
to the Ferrels were hidden also.

All of the slaves on the plantation were glad when they were told that
they were free but there was no big demonstration as they were somewhat
afraid of what the Master might do.

Some of them remained on the plantation while others of them left as
soon as they were told that they were. Several months after freedom was declared
Mr. Lewis' father was able to join his family which he had not seen
since they had moved to Georgia.

When asked his opinion of slavery and of freedom Mr. Lewis said that
he would rather be free because to a certain degree he is able to
do as he pleases, on the other hand he did not have to worry about
food and shelter as a slave as he has to do now at times.

The old Negress was tired and while resting she talked of days long
passed and of how things have changed since she was" a little gal.""

My pa wuz William Young, and he belonged to old Marse Wylie Young and later to young Marse
Mack Young, a son of old marster. Pa wuz born in 1841, and he died in 1918."
Ma wuz Lula Lumpkin, and she belonged to Marse Jack Lumpkin.

I forgits de year, but she wuz jus' 38 years old when she died.

Ma' s young mistis wuz Miss Mirriam Lumpkin, and she wuz sho' good
ter my ma. I' members,' cause I seed her lots of times.

She married Marse William Nichols, remedy of castor oil and turpentine
was administered. There was very little sickness then according to Mr. Lewis.
Most every family kept a large pot of"

Bitters"( a mixture of whiskey and tree barks) and each morning every member
of and she ain' t been dead many years." I wuz born at Steebens(
Stephens), Georgia, in 1862 at seben' clock in de mornin' on de 27th
day of April. Yassum, I got here in time for breakfast. Dey named me Mirriam
Young.

When I wuz' bout eight years old, us moved on de Bowling Green road dat runs to Lexin' ton, Georgia.
Us stayed dar' til I wuz' bout 10 years old, den us moved to de old Hutchins
place.

I wukked in de field wid my pa' til I wuz' bout' leben years old.
Den ma put me out to wuk. I wukked for 25 dollars a year and my schoolin'.
Den I nussed for Marse George Rice in Hutchins, Georgia.

I think Marse George and his twin sister stays in Lexin' ton now. When
I wuz twelve, I went to wuk for Marse John I. Callaway.

Ma hired me for de same pay, 25 dollars a year and my schoolin'." Missus Callaway sho' wuz good
to me. Sha larnt me my books-- readin' and writin'-- and sewin',
knittin', crochetin'.

I still got some of de wuk dat she larnt me to do." At this point Aunt
Merry proudly displayed a number of articles that she had crocheted
and knitted. All were fashioned after old patterns and showed fine
workmanship."

Mistis larnt me to be neat and clean in evvything I done, and I would
walk' long de road a- knittin' and nebber miss a stitch.

I just bet none of dese young folkses now days could do dat. Dey sho' don' t do no wuk, just run' round
all de time, day and night. I don' t know what' ll' come of' em,
lessen dey change deir ways."

Whilst I wuz still nussin' Missis' little gal and baby boy dey went down
to Buffalo Crick to stay, and dey give me a pretty gray mare. She wuz all
mine and her name wuz Lucy." I tuk de chillun to evvy day and down at de crick,
I pulled off dey struck clo' myself es and baptized' em, in de water.
I would wade out in de crick wid' em, and say:' I baptizes you in
de name of de Fadder and de Son and de Holy Ghost.' Den I would souse'
em under de water.

I didn' t know nobody wuz seein' me, but one mornin' Missis axed me' bout it and I thought she
mought be mad but she just laughed and said dat hit mought be good for' em,' cause she' spect dey needed
baptizin', but to be keerful, for just on t' other side of de rock wuz a
hole dat didn' t have no bottom." Dere wuz just two things on de place
dat I wuz' fraid of, and one wuz de big registered bull dat Marster
had paid so much money for.

He sho' wuz bad, and when he got out, us all stayed in de house' til dey
cotched' im. Marster had a big black stallion dat cost lots of money. He
wuz bad too, but Marster kept' im shut up most of de time.

De wust I ever wuz skeert wuz de time I wuz takin' de baby to ride horseback. When one of de Nigger boys on
de place started off on Marster' s horse, my mare started runnin'
and I couldn' t stop' er.

She runned plumb away wid me, and when de boy cotched us, I wuz holdin'
de baby wid one hand and de saddle wid t' other."

I sho' did have a big time once when us went to Atlanta. De place whar
us stayed wuz' bout four miles out, whar Kirkwood is now, and it
belonged to Mrs. Robert A. Austin.

She wuz a widder' oman. She had a gal name' Mary and us chillun used to play together. It wuz
a pretty place wid great big yards, and de mostes' flowers. Us used to go into Atlanta on de six' clock'
commodation, and come home on de two' clock' commodation, but evvythings
changed now." At de Callaway place us colored folks had big suppers
and all day dinners, wid plenty to eat-- chicken, turkey, and' possum,
and all de hogs us wanted.

But dere warnt no dancin' or fightin',' cause old Missis sho' didn' t'
low dat." I married when I wuz sebenteen. I didn' t have no weddin'.

I wuz just married by de preacher to Albert McCommons, at Hutchins. Us stayed at Steebens' bout one year
after us married and den come to Athens, whar I stays now.

I ain' t never had but two chillun; dey wuz twins, one died, but
my boy is wid me now."

I used to nuss Miss Calline Davis, and she done got married and left
here, but I still hears from' er. She done married one of dem northern
mens, Mr. Hope.

I' members one time whilst dey wuz visitin' I stayed wid' em to nuss deir
baby. One of Mr. Hope' s friends from New York wuz wid' em. When
dey got to de train to go home, Miss Calline kissed me good- bye and de
yankee didn' t know what to say. Miss Calline say de yankees' low
dat southern folks air mean to us Niggers and just beat us all de
time.

Dey just don' t know' cause my white folkses wuz all good to me, and
I loves' em all."

As the interviewer left, Aunt Merry followed her into the yard asking for a return visit and promising
to tell more," bout my good white folkses." The small front yard was gay with snapdragons, tiger
lilies, dahlias, and other colorful flowers, and the two- story frame house, painted gray with
white trimmings seemed to be in far better repair than the average
Negro residence.

Chewing on a cud of tobacco, Ed answered the knock on his front door." Good evenin' Lady," he
said."

Have a cheer on de porch whar it' s cool."

Ed is about five feet, six inches in height, and on this afternoon
he was wearing a blue striped shirt, black vest, gray pants and black shoes.
His gray hair was topped by a soiled gray hat.

Nett, his wife, came hobbling out on the porch and sat down to listen
to the conversation. At first the old man was reluctant to talk of his
childhood experiences, but his interest was aroused by questioning
and soon he began to eagerly volunteer his memories.

He had just had his noon meal and now and then would doze a little, but was
easily aroused when questions called him back to the subject." I
was borned in Oconee County," he said," jus' below Watkinsville.

My Ma and Pa was Louisa and Henry McCree, but Old Marster called Pa'
Sherm' for short.

Far as I ever heared, my Ma and Pa was borned and brung up right
dar in Oconee County.

Dere was six of us chillun: Silas, Lumpkin, Bennie, Lucy, Babe, and
me. Babe, she was borned a long time atter de war." Little Niggers,
what was too young to wuk in de fields, toted water to de field hands
and waited on de old' omans what was too old to wuk in de craps.

Dem old' omans looked atter de babies and piddled' round de yards."
Slave quarters was lots of log cabins wid chimlies of criss- crossed
sticks and mud.

Pore white folks lived in houses lak dat too. Our bed was made wid high
posties and had cords, what run evvy which a- way, for springs.'
Course dey had to be wound tight to keep dem beds from fallin' down
when you tried to git in' em.

For mattresses, de' omans put wheat straw in ticks made out of coarse
cloth wove right dar on de plantation, and de pillows was made de
same way.

Ole Miss, she let her special favorite Niggers, what wuked up at de
big house, have feather mattresses and pillows. Dem other Niggers
shined dey eyes over dat, but dere warn' t nothin' dey could do' bout
it' cept slip' round and cut dem feather beds and pillows open jus'
to see de feathers fly.

Kivver was' lowanced out evvy year to de ones
what needed it most.

In dat way dere was allus good kivver for evvybody." Grandma Liza b'
longed to Marse Calvin Johnson long' fore Marse John McCree buyed
her.

She was cook
at de big house. Grandpa Charlie, he b' longed to Marse Charlie Hardin,
but atter him and Grandma married, she still went by de name of McCree."
Lawdy Miss! Who ever heared of folks payin' slaves to wuk? Leastwise,
I never knowed' bout none of' em on our place gittin' money for what
dey done.' Course dey give us plenty of somepin' t' eat and clothes
to wear, and den dey made us keep a- humpin' it.

I does' member seein' dem paper nickels, dimes, and quarters what us
chillun played wid atter de war. Us used to pretend us was rich wid all
dat old money what warn' t no good den."' Bout dem eatments, Miss, it
was lek dis, dere warn' t no fancy victuals lak us thinks us got to
have now, but what dere was, dere was plenty of.

Most times dere
was poke sallet, turnip greens, old blue head collards, cabbages,
peas, and' taters by de wholesale for de slaves to eat and, onct a
week, dey rationed us out wheat bread, syrup, brown sugar, and ginger
cakes.

What dey give chillun de most of was potlicker poured over cornbread
crumbs in a long trough. For fresh meat, outside of killin' a shoat,
a lamb, or a kid now and den, slaves was' lowed to go huntin' a right
smart and dey fotch in a good many turkles( turtles),' possums, rabbits,
and fish.



IN what, my dear Sister, have I offended you, that instead of endeavouring to soften my father's
anger against me, (as I am sure I should have done for you, had my unhappy case been yours,)
you should, in so hard-hearted a manner, join to aggravate not only his displeasure, but my
mother's against me. Make but my case your own, my dear Bella; and suppose you were commanded
to marry Mr. Lovelace, (to whom you are believed to have such an antipathy,) would you not
think it a very grievous injunction?--Yet cannot your dislike to Mr. Lovelace be greater than
mine is to Mr. Solmes. Nor are love and hatred voluntary passions.

My brother may perhaps think it a proof of a manly spirit, to shew himself an utter stranger
to the gentle passions. We have both heard him boast, that he never loved with distinction:
and, having predominating passions, and checked in his first attempt, perhaps he never will.
It is the less wonder, then, raw from the college, so lately himself the tutored, that he should
set up for a tutor, a prescriber to our gentler sex, whose tastes and manners are differently
formed: for what, according to his account, are colleges, but classes of tyrants, from the
upper students over the lower, and from them to the tutor?--That he, with such masculine passions
should endeavour to controul and bear down an unhappy sister, in a case where his antipathy,
and, give me leave to say, his ambition [once you would have allowed the latter to be his fault]
can be gratified by so doing, may not be quite so much to be wondered at--but that a sister
should give up the cause of a sister, and join with him to set her father and mother against
her, in a case that might have been her own--indeed, my Bella, this is not pretty in you.

There was a time that Mr. Lovelace was thought reclaimable, and when it was far from being
deemed a censurable view to hope to bring back to the paths of virtue and honour, a man of
his sense and understanding. I am far from wishing to make the experiment: but nevertheless
will say, that if I have not a regard for him, the disgraceful methods taken to compel me to
receive the addresses of such a man as Mr. Solmes are enough to induce it.

Do you, my Sister, for one moment, lay aside all prejudice, and compare the two men in their
births, their educations, their persons, their understandings, their manners, their air, and
their whole deportments; and in their fortunes too, taking in reversions; and then judge of
both; yet, as I have frequently offered, I will live single with all my heart, if that will do.

I cannot thus live in displeasure and disgrace. I would, if I could, oblige all my friends.
But will it be just, will it be honest, to marry a man I cannot endure? If I have not been
used to oppose the will of my father, but have always delighted to oblige and obey, judge of
the strength of my antipathy, by the painful opposition I am obliged to make, and cannot help it.

Pity then, my dearest Bella, my sister, my friend, my companion, my adviser, as you used to
be when I was happy, and plead for

Your ever-affectionate, CL. HARLOWE.

***

TO MISS CLARY HARLOWE

Let it be pretty or not pretty, in your wise opinion, I shall speak my mind, I will assure
you, both of you and your conduct in relation to this detested Lovelace. You are a fond foolish
girl with all your wisdom. Your letter shews that enough in twenty places. And as to your cant
of living single, nobody will believe you. This is one of your fetches to avoid complying with
your duty, and the will of the most indulgent parents in the world, as yours have been to you,
I am sure--though now they see themselves finely requited for it.

We all, indeed, once thought your temper soft and amiable: but why was it? You never were contradicted
before: you had always your own way. But no sooner do you meet with opposition in your wishes
to throw yourself away upon a vile rake, but you shew what you are. You cannot love Mr. Solmes!
that's the pretence; but Sister, Sister, let me tell you, that is because Lovelace has got
into your fond heart:--a wretch hated, justly hated, by us all; and who has dipped his hands
in the blood of your brother: yet him you would make our relation, would you?

I have no patience with you, but for putting the case of my liking such a vile wretch as him.
As to the encouragement you pretend he received formerly from all our family, it was before
we knew him to be so vile: and the proofs that had such force upon us, ought to have had some
upon you:--and would, had you not been a foolish forward girl; as on this occasion every body
sees you are.

O how you run out in favour of the wretch!--His birth, his education, his person, his understanding,
his manners, his air, his fortune--reversions too taken in to augment the surfeiting catalogue!
What a fond string of lovesick praises is here! And yet you would live single--Yes, I warrant!--when
so many imaginary perfections dance before your dazzled eye!--But no more--I only desire, that
you will not, while you seem to have such an opinion of your wit, think every one else a fool;
and that you can at pleasure, by your whining flourishes, make us all dance after your lead.

Write as often as you will, this shall be the last answer or notice you shall have upon this
subject from

ARABELLA HARLOWE.

***

I had in readiness a letter for each of my uncles; and meeting in the garden a servant of my
uncle Harlowe, I gave him to deliver according to their respective directions. If I am to form
a judgment by the answers I have received from my brother and sister, as above, I must not,
I doubt, expect any good from those letters. But when I have tried every expedient, I shall
have the less to blame myself for, if any thing unhappy should fall out. I will send you copies
of both, when I shall see what notice they will be thought worthy of, if of any. 

A. Not at the time she offered her name.

Q. Was she challenged at any time?

A. Yes, sir; the second day of the meeting of the Board.

Q. Was the preliminary and the general oath administered?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Won' t you state what Miss Anthony said, if she said anything, when
she came there and offered her name for registration?

A. She stated that she did not claim any rights under the constitution of the State of New York; she
claimed her right under the constitution of the United States.

Q. Did she name any particular amendment?

A. Yes, sir; she cited the 14th amendment.

Q. Under that she claimed her right to vote?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Did the other Federal Supervisor who was present, state it as his
opinion that she was entitled to vote under that amendment, or did
he protest, claiming that she did not have the right to vote?

A. One of them said that there was no way for the inspectors to get around placing the name upon
the register; the other one, when she came in, left the room.

Q. Did this one who said that there was no way to get around placing
the name upon the register, state that she had her right to register
but did not have the right to vote?

A. I didn' t hear him make any such statement.

Q. You didn' t hear any such statement as that?

A. No, sir.

Q. Was there a poll list the same right to vote as any other citizen
who voted at that election.

Before proceeding to the discussion of the purely legal question,
I desire, as already intimated, to pay some attention to the propriety
and justice of the rule which I claim to have been established by
the Constitution.

Miss Anthony, and those united with her in demanding the right of kept
of the voters of the first election district of the 8th ward on the day
of election? A. Yes, sir.

Q.( Handing witness two books.) State whether that is the poll list
of voters kept upon the day of election in the first election district
of the 8th ward, of the city of Rochester?

     
     
A. This is the poll list, and also the register. Q. Turn to the
name of Susan B. Anthony, if it is upon that poll list?

A. I have it.

Q. What number is it?

A. Number 22.

Q. From that poll list what tickets does it purport to show that
she voted upon that to justify her being consigned to a felon' s prison
or not, is one that interests her very essentially, and that interests
the people also essentially.

I claim and shall endeavor to establish before you that when she
offered to have her name registered as a voter, and when she offered
her vote for Member of Congress, she was as much entitled to vote
as any man that voted at that election, according to the Constitution
and laws of the Government under which she lives.

If I maintain that proposition, as a matter of course she has committed
no offence, and is entitled to be discharged at your.

But, beyond that, whether she was a legal voter or not, whether she
was entitled to vote or not, if she sincerely believed that she had
a right to vote, and offered her ballot in good faith, under that
belief, whether right or wrong, by the laws of this country she is
guilty of no crime.

I apprehend that that proposition, when it is discussed, will be
maintained with a clearness and force that shall leave no doubt upon
the mind of the Court or upon your minds as the gentlemen of the jury.

If I maintain that proposition here, then the further question and the only
question which, in my judgment, can come before you to be passed
upon by you as a question of fact is whether or not she did vote in
good faith, believing that she had a right to vote.

The public prosecutor assumes that, however honestly she may have offered
her vote, however sincerely she may have believed that she had a
right to vote, if she was mistaken in that judgment, her offering
her vote and its being received makes a criminal offence-- a proposition
to me most abhorrent, as I believe it will be equally abhorrent to
your judgment.

Before the registration, and before this election, Miss Anthony called upon
me for advice upon the question whether, under the 14th Amendment
of the Constitution of the United, she had a right to vote. I had not
examined the question. I told her I would examine it and give her
my opinion upon the question of her legal right.

She went away and came again after I had made the examination. I advised
her that she was as lawful a voter as I am, or as any other man is,
and advised her to go and offer her vote.

I may have been mistaken in that, and if I was mistaken, I believe she acted in good faith. I believe she according
to her right as the law and Constitution gave it to her. But whether she did or not, she acted
in the most perfect good faith, and if she made a mistake, or if
I made one, that is not a reason for committing her to a felon' s
cell.

     For the second time in my life, in my professional practice, I am under the
     necessity of offering myself as a witness for my client. HENRY R. SELDEN
     the inspectors should receive her vote. I gave the advice in good faith,
     believing it to be accurate, and I believe it to be accurate still.[ This
     witness was not cross- examined.] JUDGE SELDEN: I propose to call Miss
Anthony as to the fact of her voting-- on the question of the intention
or belief under which she voted.

MR. CROWLEY: She is not competent as a witness in her own behalf.[ The Court so held.] Defendant rests.
JOHN E. POUND, a witness sworn in behalf of the United States, testified
as follows: Examined by MR. CROWLEY. Q. During the months of November
and December, 1872, and January, 1873, were you Assistant United States
Dist. Attorney for the Northern District of New York?

A. Yes, sir.
Q. Do you know the defendant, Susan B. Anthony? A. Yes, sir. Q. Did you attend an examination before
Wm. C. Storrs, a United States Commissioner, in the city of Rochester,
when her case was examined?

A. I did Q. Was she called as a
witness in her own behalf upon that examination? A. She was. Q. Was she
sworn? A. She was. Q. Did she give evidence? A. She did. Q. Did you
keep minutes of evidence on that occasion?

A. I did. Q.( Handing the witness a paper.) Please look at the paper now shown you and see if it contains
the minutes you kept upon that occasion? A. It does. to Q. Turn to the evidence of Susan B. Anthony!
A. I have it. Q. Did she, upon that oblivion occasion, state that
she consulted or talked with Judge Henry R. Selden, of Rochester,
in relation to her right to vote?

JUDGE SELDEN: I object to that upon the ground that it is incompetent, that
if they refuse to allow her to be sworn here, they should be excluded from
producing any evidence that she gave elsewhere, especially when they
want to give the version which the United States officer took of her
evidence.

THE COURT: Go on. By MR. CROWLEY: Q. State whether she stated on that examination, under oath, that she
had talked or consulted with Judge Henry R. Selden in relation to
her right to vote?

A. She did.

 
 Q. State whether she was asked, upon that examination, if the advice
given her by Judge Henry R. Selden would or did make any difference
in her action in voting, or in substance that?

A.
She stated on the cross- examination," I should have made the same endeavor to
vote that I did had I not consulted Judge Selden. I didn' occasion?
A. Electoral, State, Congress and Assembly. United States rests.
JUDGE SELDEN opened the case in behalf of the defendant, as follows:
If the Court please, Gentlemen of the Jury: This is a case of no
ordinary magnitude, although many might regard it as one of very little
importance.

The question whether my client here has done anything t consult any one before I registered.
I was not influenced by his advice in the matter at all; have been
resolved to vote, the first time I was at home 30 days, for a number
of years."

Cross- examination by MR. VAN VOORHEES: Q. Mr. Pound, was she asked
there if she had any doubt about her right to vote, and did she answer"

Not a particle?" A. She stated" Had no doubt as to my right to vote,"
on the direct examination. Q. There was a stenographic there, was
there not?

A. A reporter was there taking notes. Q. Was not this question put
to her"

Did you have any doubt yourself of your right to vote?" and did she
not answer"

Not a particle?"

THE COURT: Well, he says so, that she had no doubt of her right to vote.
JUDGE SELDEN: I beg leave to state, in regard to my own testimony,
Miss Anthony informs me that I was mistaken in the fact that my advice
was before her registry.

It was my recollection that it was on her way to the registry, but
she states to me now that she was registered and came immediately
to my office.

In that respect I was under a mistake. Evidence closed. ARGUMENT OF MR. SELDEN FOR THE DEFENDANT.
If the advocates of female suffrage had been allowed to choose the
point of attack to be made upon their position, they could not have
chosen it more favorably for themselves; and I am disposed to thank
those who have been instrumental in this proceeding, for presenting
it in the form of a criminal prosecution.

If the first question be decided in accordance with my views, the
other questions become immaterial; if the second be decided adversely
to my views, the first and third become immaterial.

The two first are questions of law to be decided by the court, the
other is a question for the jury.[ The Judge here suggested that the
argument should be confined to the legal questions, and the argument
on the other question suspended, until his opinion on those questions
should be made known.

This suggestion was assented to, and the counsel proceeded.] My first
position is that the defendant had suffrage, claim, and with a strong
appearance of justice, that upon the principles upon which our government
is founded, and which lie at the basis of all just government, every
citizen has a right to take part, upon equal terms with every other
citizen, in the formation and administration of government.

This claim on the part of the female sex presents a question the
magnitude of which is not well appreciated by the writers and speakers
who treat it with ridicule.

Those engaged in the movement are able, sincere and earnest women,
and they will not be silenced by such ridicule, nor even by the villainous
caricatures of Nast.

On the contrary, they justly place all those things to the account
of the wrongs which they think their sex has suffered.

They believe, with an intensity of feeling which men who have not
associated with them have not yet learned, that their sex has not
had, and has not now, its just and true position in the organization
of government and society.

They may be wrong in their position, but they will not be content
until their arguments are fairly, truthfully and candidly answered.

In
the most celebrated document which has been put forth on this side
of the Atlantic, our ancestors declared that" governments derive their
just powers from the consent of the governed."

Blackstone says," The lawfulness of punishing such criminals( i e.,
persons offending merely against the laws of society) is founded upon
this principle: that the law by which they suffer was made by their
own consent; it is a part of the original contract into which they
entered when first they engaged in society; it was calculated for
and has long contributed to their own security."

Quotations, to an unlimited extent, containing similar doctrines
from eminent writers, both English and American, on government, from
the time of John Locke to the present day, might be made.

Without adopting this doctrine which bases the rightfulness of government
upon the consent of the governed, I claim that there is implied in
it the narrower and unassailable principle that all, citizens of a
State, who are bound by its laws, are entitled to an equal voice in
the making and execution of such laws.

 The doctrine is well stated by Godwin in his treatise on Political
Justice.
 
 

He says:" The first and most important principle that can be imagined
relative to the form and structure of government, seems to be this:
that as government is a transaction in the name and for the benefit
of the whole, every member of the community ought to have some share
in its administration."

Again," Government is a contrivance instituted for the security of
individuals; and it seems both reasonable that each man should have
a share in providing for his own security, and probable, that partiality
and cabal should by this means be most effectually excluded."

And again," To give each man a voice in the public concerns comes nearest to that admirable idea of
which we should never lose sight, the uncontrolled exercise of private
judgment.

Each man would thus be inspired with a consciousness of his own importance,
and the slavish feelings that shrink up the soul in the presence of
an imagined superior would be unknown."

The mastery which this doctrine, whether right or wrong, has acquired
over the public mind, has produced as its natural fruit, the extension
of the right of suffrage to all the adult male population in nearly
all the states of the Union; a result which was well epitomized by
President Lincoln, in the expression," government by the people for
the people."

This extension of the suffrage is regarded by many as a source of
danger to the stability of free government.

I believe it furnishes the greatest security for free government, as it deprives the mass of the
people of all motive for revolution; and that government so based
is most safe, not because the whole people are less liable to make
mistakes in government than a select few, but because they have no
interest which can lead them to such mistakes, or to prevent their
correction when made.

On the contrary, the world has never seen an aristocracy, whether composed of few or many, powerful enough
to control a government, who did not honestly believe that their interest was identical with the public interest,
and who did not act persistently in accordance with such belief; and,
unfortunately, an aristocracy of sex has not proved an exception
to the rule.

The only method yet discovered of overcoming this tendency to the
selfish use of power, whether consciously or unconsciously, by those
possessing it, is the distribution of the power among all who are
its subjects.

Short of this the name free government is a misnomer.

This principle, after long strife, not yet entirely ended has been, practically at least, very generally
recognized on this side of the Atlantic, as far as relates to men;
but when the attempt is made to extend it to women, political philosophers
and practical politicians, those" inside of politics," two classes
not often found acting in concert, join in denouncing it.

It remains to be determined whether the reasons which have produced
the extension of the franchise to all adult men, do not equally demand
its extension to all adult women.

If it be necessary for men that each should have a share in the administration
of government for his security, and to exclude partiality, as alleged
by Godwin, it would seem to be equally, if not more, necessary for
women, on account of their inferior physical power: and if, as is
persistently alleged by those who sneer at their claims, they are
also inferior in mental power, that fact only gives additional weight
to the person argument in their behalf, as one of the primary objects
of government, as acknowledged on all hands, is the protection of
the weak against the power of the strong.

I can discover no ground consistent with the principle on which the franchise has been given to
all men, upon which it can be denied to women. The principal argument against such extension,
so far as argument upon that side of the question has fallen under my observation, is based upon
the position that women are represented in the government by men,
and that their rights and interests are better protected through that
indirect representation than they would be by giving them a direct
voice in the government.

The teachings of history in regard to the condition of women under
the care of these self- constituted protectors, to which I can only
briefly allude, show the value of this argument as applied to past
ages; and in demonstration of its value as applied to more recent
times, even at the risk of being tedious, I will give some examples
from my own professional experience.

I do this because nothing adds more to the efficacy of truth than the translation of the abstract
into the concrete.

Withholding names, I will state the facts with fullness and accuracy.
An educated and refined woman, who had been many years before deserted
by her drunken husband, was living in a small village of Western New
York, securing, by great economy and intense labor in fine needle
work, the means of, and of supporting two daughters at an academy,
the object of her life being to give them such an education as would
enable them to become uncle disapproved of the conduct of his nephew,
and failing to control it by honorable means, resorted to the circulation
of the vilest slanders against mother and daughters.

He was a man of wealth and influence. They were almost unknown.

The mother had but the mother and daughters with no means of redress
were left to starve.

This was the act of the representative of the wife and daughters to whom
we are referred, as a better protector of their rights than they
themselves could be.

It may properly be added, that if the action had proceeded to judgment
without interference from the husband, and such amount of damages
had been recovered as a jury might have thought it proper to award,
the money would have belonged to the husband, and the wife could not
lawfully recently come to the village, her object having been to secure
to her daughters the educational advantages which the academy afforded.

Poverty, as well as perhaps an excusable if not laudable pride, compelled
her to live in obscurity, and consequently the assault upon their characters
fell upon her and her daughters with crushing force.

 
Her employment mainly ceased, her daughters were of necessity withdrawn
from school, and all were deprived of the means, from their own exertions,
of sustaining life.

Had they been in fact the harlots which the miserly scoundrel represented
them to be, they would not have been so utterly powerless to resist
his assault.

The mother in her despair naturally sought legal redress.

But how was it to be obtained?

By the law the wife' s rights were merged in those of the husband, a witness sworn in behalf of the
defendant, testified as follows: Before the last election, Miss Anthony called upon me for advice,
upon the question whether she was or was not a legal voter. I examined the question, and gave
her my opinion, unhesitatingly, that the laws and Constitution of
the United States, authorized her to vote, as well as they authorize
any man to vote; and I advised her to have her name placed upon the
registry and to vote at the election, if.

She had in law no individual existence, and consequently no action
could be brought by her to redress the grievous wrong; indeed according
to the law she had suffered no wrong, but the husband had suffered
all, and was entitled to all the redress.

Where he was the lady did not know; she had not heard from him for many
years. Her counsel, however,
 
 
 ventured to bring an action in her behalf, joining the husband' s
name with hers, as the law required. When the cause came to trial the
defendant made no attempt to sustain the charges which he had made,
well knowing that they were as groundless as they were cruel; but
he introduced and proved a release of the cause of action, signed
by the husband, reciting a consideration of fifty dollars paid to him.

 The defendant' s counsel had some difficulty in proving the execution
of the release, and was compelled to introduce as a witness, the constable
who had been employed to find the vagabond husband and obtain his
signature.

His testimony disclosed the facts that he found the husband in the forest in one of our north- eastern
counties, engaged in making shingles,( presumably stealing timber
from the public lands and converting it into the means of indulging
his habits of drunkenness,) and only five dollars of the fifty mentioned
in the release had in fact been paid.

The Court held, was compelled to hold, that the party injured in view of the law, had received full
compensation for the wrong-- and have touched a cent of it. Her attorney might, and doubtless would have
paid it to her, but he could only have done so at the peril of being
compelled to pay it again to the drunken husband if he had demanded
it.

In another case, two ladies, mother
and daughter, some time prior to 1860 came from an eastern county of New York
to Rochester, where a habeas corpus was obtained for a child of the daughter,
less than two years of age. It appeared on the return of the writ, that
the mother of the child had been previously abandoned by her husband, who
had travel to a western state to reside, and his wife had returned
with the child to her mother' s house, and had resided there after
her desertion.

The husband had recently returned
from the west, had succeeded in getting the child into his custody, and was stopping
over night with it in Rochester on the way to his western home.

No misconduct on the part of the wife was pretended,
and none on the part of the husband, excepting that he had gone to the
west leaving his wife and child behind, no cause appearing, and had
returned, and somewhat clandestinely obtained possession of the child.
The Judge, following Blackstone' s views of husband' s rights, remanded
the infant to the custody of the father. He thought the law required it,
and perhaps it did; but if mothers had had a voice, either in making
or in administering the law, I think the result would have been different.
The distress of the mother on being thus separated from her child can be
better imagined than described.

The separation proved a final one, as in less than a year neither father
nor mother had any child on earth to love or care for. Whether the loss to
the little one of a mother' s love and watchfulness had any effect
upon the result, cannot, of course, be known.

The state of the law a short time since, in other respects, in regard
to the rights of married women, shows what kind of security had been
provided for them by their assumed representatives. Prior to 1848,
all the personal property of every woman on marriage became the absolute
property of the husband-- the use of all her real estate became his
during coverture, and on the birth of a living child, it became his
during his life.

He could squander it in dissipation or bestow it upon harlots, and the wife could
not touch or interfere with it. Prior to 1860, the husband could by
will take the custody of his infant children away from the surviving
mother, and give it whom he pleased-- and he could in like manner dispose
of the control of the children' s property, after his death, during their
minority, without the mother' s consent. In most of these respects the state of
the law has undergone great changes within the last 25 years. The property,
real and personal, which a woman possesses before marriage, and such as
may be given to her during coverture, remains her own, and is free from
the control of her husband. If a married woman is slandered she can
prosecute in her own name the slanderer, and recover to her own use
damages for the injury. The mother now has an equal claim with the father
to the custody of their minor children, and in case of controversy
on the subject, courts may award the custody to either in their discretion.

The husband cannot
now by will effectually appoint a guardian for his infant children without
the consent of the mother, if living. These are certainly great ameliorations
of the law; but how have they been produced? Mainly as the result of
the exertions of a few heroic women, one of the foremost of whom
is her who stands arraigned as a criminal before this Court to- day.

For a thousand years the absurdities and cruelties to which I have alluded
have been embedded in the common law, and in the statute books, and men have
not touched them, and would not until the end of time, had they not been goaded to
it by the persistent efforts of the noble women to teachers, and thus secure
to them some degree of independence when she could no longer provide
for them.

The daughters were good scholars, and favorites in the school, so long as
the mother was able to maintain them there. A young man, the nephew and
clerk of a wealthy but miserly merchant, became acquainted with the
daughters, and was specially attentive to the older one. The whom I
have alluded

.
 This I am resolved upon;
if I have not his sister, I will have him.

But be this as it may, there is a present likelihood of room for glorious mischief. A confederacy
had been for some time formed against me; but the uncles and the nephew are now to be double-servanted
[single-servanted they were before]; and those servants are to be double armed when they attend
their masters abroad. This indicates their resolute enmity to me, and as resolute favour to Solmes.

The reinforced orders for this hostile apparatus are owing it seems to a visit I made yesterday
to their church.--A good place I thought to begin a reconciliation in; supposing the heads
of the family to be christians, and that they meant something by their prayers. Both were, in fact, part
of the general refusal to accept the conditions of ordinary life. For any one who demands plot
there is one-- of such gigantic dimensions, indeed, that it is not easy to grasp it, but seen to
be singularly well articulated and put together when it is once grasped.
But this charity will hardly extend to such a thing as the repetition of
Cyrus' s foolish promise to fight Philidaspes before he marries Mandane in the
case of Aronce, Horatius, and Clélie. it has, rightly or wrongly,
been credited here.

Again, though character, as has been admitted, in any if real live sense, is terribly wanting still;
though description is a little general and wants more" streaks in the tulip";
and though conversation is formal and stilted, there is evident,
perhaps even in the first, certainly in the second and third cases,
an effort to treat them at any rate systematically, in accordance
with some principles of art, and perhaps even not without some eye
to the actual habits, manners, demands of the time-- things which
again were quite new in prose fiction, and, in fact, could hardly
be said to be anywhere present in literature outside of drama."

The illustrious Aronce and the adorable Clelia" are actually going to
be married, when there is a fearful storm, an earthquake, and a disappearance
of the heroine. The charge of excessive length need hardly be dealt
with at all. Nobody, on the other hand, who knows Richardson and Mademoiselle
de Scudéry can doubt the influence of the French book-- a century
old as it was-- on the" father of the English novel." But it may be added
that the law of supply and demand helped; for people evidently were
not in the least bored by bulk, and that the fancy for having a book"
on hand" has only lately, if it has actually, died out.[ 194] Now
such a" book on hand" as the Grand Cyrus exists, as far as my knowledge
goes, in no Western literature, unless you count collections of letters,
which is not fair, or such memoirs as Saint- Simon' s, which do not
appeal to quite the same class of readers.

The Histoires break out at once with the story of a certain Alibech--
much more proper for the young person than that connected with the same
name by Boccaccio,-- and those who have acquired some knowledge of Mlle.
From Cyrus and Mandane downwards the people have qualities; but qualities,
though they are necessary to character, do not constitute it.( or"
Sanjiac"), not for a district but for its governor, is a little unlucky
perhaps; but"

Aderbion" is much nearer" Azerbaijan" than one generally expects in
such cases from French writers of the seventeenth or even of other
centuries. Of course the end knits straight on to the beginning. And
the same observation may apply to her" second string," Doralise. The way
in which Aronce is kept an" unknown" for some time, and that in which
his actual relationship to Porsena is treated, have also too much
of the replica; and though a lively skirmish with a pirate which occurs
is not quite so absurd as that ready- made series of encores which
was described above( pp. 181- 2), there is something a little like
it in the way in which the hero and his men alternately reduce the
enemy to extremity, and run over the deck to rescue friends who are
in the pirates' power from being butchered or flung overboard.

Now these things, in a book very widely read and immensely admired,
could not, and did not, fail to have their effect. She has, of course,
been carried off; one might say, without flippancy, of any heroine of
Madeleine de Scudéry' s not only that she was, as in a famous and already
quoted saying," very liable to be carried off," but that it was not
in nature that she should not be carried off as early and as often
as possible.

It has already been said that the most interesting point about it is the
opportunity of discovering how it was, in part, a regular, and, in
fact, almost the furthest possible, development of a characteristic
which had been more or less observable throughout the progress of
romance.

Now any influence exerted on these two was, beyond controversy, an the Cyrus)
is occupied by the same, or( v. sup.) nearly the same tissue of delays,
digressions, and other maze- like devices for setting you off on a
new quest when you seem to be quite close to the goal. To encourage them, a
single hint that Léonide sometimes plays a little of the parts of Martésie and
Doralise in the Cyrus may be thrown in." Sandjak" Very faint approaches
may be discerned, by very benevolent criticism, in such a personage as
Martésie with her shrewdness, her maid- of- honour familiarity with
the ways and manners of courtly human beings, and that very pardonable,
indeed agreeable, tendency, which has been noticed or imagined, to
flirt in respectful fashion with Cyrus, while carrying on more regular
business with Feraulas.

There is, however, one sentence in the second volume of Ibrahim
which is worth quotation and brief comment, because it is a text
for the whole management and system of these novels, and accounts
for much in their successors almost to the present day.

All the stock legends of the Porsena siege and others are duly brought
in: and the atrocious Sextus, not contented with his sin against Lucrèce,
tries to carry off Clélie likewise, but is fortunately or wisely prevented.

But if, to alter slightly a famous quotation, I might" give a short hint to an impartial
reader," I should very strongly advise him to begin his studies(
or at least his enjoyment) thereof, not with"

Sapho," but with Gauthier de Costes, Seigneur de la Calprenède, himself
according to Tallemant almost the proverbial"

Gascon et demi"; a tragic dramatist, as well as a romantic writer;
a favourite of Mme. de Sévigné, who seldom went wrong in her preferences,
except when she preferred her very disagreeable daughter to her very
agreeable son; and more than any one else the inventor, or at least
perfecter, of the hectoring heroic style which we associate with Dryden'
s plays. But though smaller, it is much" stodgier."

The book is a mere cockboat beside the mighty argosy of the Cyrus,
running only to four volumes and some two thousand pages. A far more serious
default or defect-- not exactly blameworthy, because the time was
not yet, but certainly to be taken account of-- is the almost utter
want of character just referred to.

Madeleine' s ways will know what it means when, if he entertains it) that he will find much of the
original of The Conquest of Granada. Horatius is the Philidaspes of Clélie, but, as he was bound to
be, an infinitely better fellow and of a better fate adopting the
improper but defensible practice of" looking at the end," they find
that not merely"

Justinian" and Isabelle, but a Horace and a Hypolite, a Doria and
a Sophronie, an Alphonse and a Léonide are all married on the same
day, while a" French Marquis" and an Emilie vow inviolable but celibate
constancy to each other; they will know, that is to say, that in the
course of the book all these will have been duly" historiated."

It is true that the French were, at this time, rather amusingly proud
of being the only Western nation treated on something like equal terms
by the Sublime Porte, and that the Scudérys( possibly Georges, whose
work the Dedication to Mlle. de Rohan, daughter of the famous soldier,
pretty certainly is) may have taken some pains to acquire knowledge.

The Oriental character of the story, however, is but partial.(" Map
of the Country of Tenderness"-- not of" Tenderness in the aibstract,"
as du Tendre would be). In other words, all these things have been
the subject of previous histories or of the main text.

Clélie is the real Clelia, if the modern historical student will pass" myself real" without sniffing,
or even if he will not. Diderot admired, or at least excused, that procedure of Richardson'
s which involved the telling of the conversation of an average dinner- party in something like a small
volume. But Almahide contains nothing, or hardly anything, of the character
of Almanzor, and Dryden has not attempted to touch a hundredth part
of the copious matter of the French novel, the early history of Almahide,
the usual immense digressions and side- histoires, the descriptions(
which, as in Ibrahim, play, I think, a larger relative part than in
the Cyrus), and what not.

The inconvenience of this earlier practice made itself felt, and by
degrees it dropped off; but it was succeeded by a somewhat similar the
business at the latter place is largely concerned with the intrigues,
jealousies, and cruelties of Roxelane, who is drawn much more( one
regrets to say) as history paints her than as the agreeable creature
habit of giving the subsequent history of introduced-- a thing which,
though Scott satirised it in Mrs. Martha Buskbody' s insistence on
information about the later history of Guse Gibbie,[ 196] by no means
ceased with his time.

In anticipation, let us see something of these others now. The book does, indeed, open the play,
with the faction- fights of Abencerrages and Zegrys, and it ends with
Boabdelin' s jealousy of his wife Almahide, while a few of the other
names in both are identical. But the" Heroic" method would have made
it necessary to tell the previous experiences of the lady you took
down to dinner, and the man that you talked to afterwards, while,
if extended from aristocratic to democratic ideas, it would have justified
a few remarks on the cabmen who brought both, and the butcher and
fishmonger who supplied the feast.[ Sidenote: Clélie.][ Sidenote:
Perhaps the liveliest of the set.] Copious as these are, however,
in both books, they do not fill them out to anything like the length
of the Cyrus itself, or of its rival in size, and perhaps superior
in attraction, the Clélie.

Le Grand Cyrus has been estated too firmly, as the type and representative of the whole class, to be dislodged,
and there is, as we shall see presently, a good deal of repetition from it in Clélie itself. I do not plead
guilty to inconsistency or change of opinion in this" perhaps" when
it is compared with the very much larger space given to the earlier novel.
But this latter is the more amusing book of the two; it is, though
equally or nearly as big, less labyrinthine; there is somewhat livelier
movement in it, and at the same time this is contrasted with a set
or series of interludes of love- casuistry, which are better, I think,
than anything of the kind in the Cyrus.[ 198] The most famous feature
of these is, of course, the well- known but constantly misnamed"

Carte de Tendre" Emilie is telling the Histoire of Isabelle, and excuses herself for not beginning
at the beginning:" Puisque je sais que vous n' ignorez pas l' amour
du Prince de Masseran, les violences et les artifices de Julie, la
trahison de Féliciane, le généreux ressentiment de Doria[ this is
another Doria], la mort de cet amant infortuné, et ensuite celle de
Julie."

A Prince of Numidia( who had heard of Numidia in Tarquin' s days?) fights a lively water- combat with Horatius
actually as he is carrying Clélie off, over the Lake of Thrasymene.
Moreover, there is a rather remarkable"

Vision of Poets"-- past, present, and to come-- which should be taken in connection with the appearance,
as an actual personage, of Anacreon. The contrast of this with the
more or less formless chronicle- fashion, the" overthwart and endlong"
conduct, of almost all the romances from the Carlovingian and Arthurian[
193] to the Amadis type, is of the most unmistakable kind. These outlines
might be expanded( and the process would not be very painful to me)
into an abstract quite as long as that of Cyrus; but"

It Cannot Be." There is no such trick played upon the educated but not wideawake person as( v. inf.)
in La Calprenède' s chief books.

And so it is always. The book begins with a proceeding not quite so like that of the Cyrus as
some to be mentioned later, but still pretty close to the elder overture.
Her lover," Aronce," although he probably may be a little disguised
from the English reader by his spelling, is so palpably the again
real"

Aruns," son of Porsena, that one rather wonders how his identity can
have been so long concealed in French( where the pronunciations would
be practically the same) from the readers of the story. To set against
these not so very small merits in the present, and very considerable
seeds of promise for the future, there are, of course, serious faults
or defects-- defaults which need, however, less insistence, because
they are much more generally known, much more obvious, and have been
already admitted.

Nobody-- we shall see this more in detail in the next chapter-- can fail to perceive that the Princesse
de Clèves itself is, from one point of view, only a histoire of
the Grand Cyrus, taken out of its preposterous matrix of other matter, polished,
charged with a great addition of internal fire of character and passion,
and left to take its chance alone and unencumbered.

And her abductor is no less a person than Horatius-- our own Horatius
Cocles-- the one who kept the bridge in some of the best known of
English verses, not he who provoked, from the sister whom he murdered,
the greatest speech in all French tragedy before, and perhaps not
merely before, Victor Hugo.[ Sidenote: La Calprenède: his comparative
cheerfulness.] It has seemed, as was said, desirable to follow the
common opinion of literary history in giving Madeleine de Scudéry
the place of honour, and the largest as well as the foremost share
in our account of this curious stage in the history of the novel.

But it is little more than a suggestion, and it has than once, be attempted; though anybody who wants
such a thing, without going to the book itself, been frankly admitted that it is perhaps not even that,
but an imagination merely. Clélie and Aronce are united without
an earthquake, and Porsena, with obliging gallantry, resigns the crown
of Clusium( from which he has himself long been kept out by a" Mezentius,"
who will hardly work in with Virgil' s), not to Aronce, but to Clélie
herself.

Ibrahim ou L' Illustre Bassa has sometimes been complimented as showing
more endeavour, if not exactly at" local colour," at technical accuracy,
than the rest.

A large part of the scene is in Carthage, where, reversing the process
in regard to Mezentius, Asdrubals and Amilcars make their appearance
in a very" mixedly" historical fashion.

The discussion
of what constitutes Tenderness comes quite early; there is later
a notable discourse on the respective attractions of Love and of Glory
or Ambition; a sort of Code and Anti- code of lovers[ 199] occurs
as" The Love- Morality of Tiramus," with a set of( not always) contrary
criticism thereof; and a debate of an almost mediaeval kind as to
the respective merits of merry and melancholy mistresses.

The Illustrious Pasha himself, though First Vizir and"
victorious" general of Soliman the Second, is not a Turk at all, but a"
Justinian" or Giustiniani of Genoa, whose beloved Isabelle is a Princess
of Monaco, and who at the end, after necessary dangers,[ 195] retires
with her to that Principality, with a punctilious explanation from
the author about the Grimaldis.

Otherwise the invariable propriety which from the time of the small love- novels( v. sup. pp. 157- 162)
had distinguished these abductions might possibly have been broken
But through.[ Sidenote: Rough outline of it.] Of that business itself
a complete account cannot, for reasons given more may find it in the
places also above mentioned.

One objection, foreshadowed, and perhaps a little more, already, must be allowed against Clélie.
If I were sent to twelve months' imprisonment of a mild description, and allowed to choose a library,
I should include in it, from the heroic or semi- heroic division,
Clélie, La Calprenède' s two chief books, Gomberville' s Polexandre,
and Gombauld' s Endimion( this partly for the pictures,), with, as
a matter of course, the Astrée, and a choice of one other.

The similarity of the openings is, comparatively speaking, a usual
thing."

Sapho' s" invention, though by no means sterile, was evidently somewhat
indiscriminate, and she would seem to have thought it rather a pity
that a good thing should be used only once.

It is so nice to put yourself in front of your beginning-- to have
made sure of it! Huge as it is, it is not in the least formless, and,
as has been several times pointed out, hardly the most( as it may
at first appear) wanton and unpardonable episode, digression, or inset
lacks its due connection with and" orientation" towards the end.

No others of the women have any character at all, influence exerted on the whole future course of
the kind, and it is as exercising such an influence that we have
given to the Great Cyrus so great a space.

By
reading slowly and" savouring" the process, I should imagine that, with
one' s memories of other things, they might be able to last for a
year. The enormous interval between( the book is practically as long
as and we have already spoken of the men.

It should not happen, and does not in really great writers; but it
is tempting, and is to some extent excused by the brocard about le premier
pas. Nevertheless the compliment given above may be repeated. That
tendency to resort to repetition of situations and movements-- which
has shown itself so often, and which practically distinguishes the very
great novelists from those not so great by its absence or presence--
is obvious here, though the huge size of the book may conceal it
from mere dippers, unless they be experts.*****[ Sidenote: The other
Scudéry romances-- Ibrahim.] After the exhaustive account given of
Artamène, it is probably not necessary to apologise for dealing with
the rest of Mlle. de Scudéry' s novel work, and with that of her comrades
in the Heroic romance, at no very great length.

And it would be one of the best kind of fallows for the brain. If" tout passe"
is an exaggeration, it is an exaggeration of the truth: and in fiction,
as in fact, the minor shapes must dissolve as well as arise without
too much fuss being made about them.[ 197][ Sidenote: Almahide.] Almahide
is, I think All this, taken in conjunction with the" business" of
the story, helps to give it the superior liveliness with which, more
readable than Ibrahim; but the English reader must disabuse himself
of the idea(.

The scene is partly there and at Genoa-- the best Genoese families,
including the Dorias, appearing-- partly at Constantinople: and
of Marmontel' s subsequent fancy.


If, Sir, you can think of the contents of this letter reasonable, I beseech you to support
them with your interest. If not--I shall be most unhappy!--Nevertheless, it is but just in
me so to write, as that Mr. Solmes may know what he has to trust to.

Forgive, dear Sir, this tedious letter; and suffer it to have weight with you; and you will
for ever oblige

Your dutiful and affectionate niece,

CL. HARLOWE.

***

MR. ANTONY HARLOWE, TO MISS CL. HARLOWE

NIECE CLARY,

You had better not write to us, or to any of us. To me, particularly, you had better never
to have set pen to paper, on the subject whereon you have written. He that is first in his
own cause, saith the wise man, seemeth just: but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him. And
so, in this respect, I will be your neighbour: for I will search your heart to the bottom;
that is to say, if your letter be written from your heart. Yet do I know what a task I have
undertaken, because of the knack you are noted for at writing. But in defence of a father's
authority, in behalf of the good, and honour, and prosperity of the family one comes of, what
a hard thing it would be, if one could not beat down all the arguments a rebel child (how loth
I am to write down that word of Miss Clary Harlowe!) can bring, in behalf of her obstinacy!

In the first place, don't you declare (and that contrary to your declarations to your mother,
remember that, girl!) that you prefer the man we all hate, and who hates us as bad!--Then what
a character have you given of a worthy man! I wonder you dare write so freely of one we all
respect--but possibly it may be for that very reason.

How you begin your letter!--Because I value Mr. Solmes as my friend, you treat him the worse--That's
the plain dunstable of the matter, Miss!--I am not such a fool but I can see that.--And so
a noted whoremonger is to be chosen before a man who is a money-lover!--Let me tell you, Niece,
this little becomes so nice a one as you have been always reckoned. Who, think you, does more
injustice, a prodigal man or a saving man?--The one saves his own money; the other spends other
people's. But your favourite is a sinner in grain, and upon record.

The devil's in your sex! God forgive me for saying so--the nicest of them will prefer a vile
rake and wh---- I suppose I must not repeat the word:--the word will offend, when the vicious
denominated by that word will be chosen!--I had not been a bachelor to this time, if I had
not seen such a mass of contradictions in you all.--Such gnat-strainers and camel-swallowers,
as venerable Holy Writ has it.

What names will perverseness call things by!--A prudent man, who intends to be just to every
body, is a covetous man!--While a vile, profligate rake is christened with the appellation
of a gallant man; and a polite man, I'll warrant you!

It is my firm opinion, Lovelace would not have so much regard for you as he professes, but
for two reasons. And what are these?--Why, out of spite to all of us--one of them. The other,
because of your independent fortune. I wish your good grandfather had not left what he did
so much in your own power, as I may say. But little did he imagine his beloved grand-daughter
would have turned upon all her friends as she has done!

What has Mr. Solmes to hope for, if you are prepossessed! Hey-day! A. Not at the time she offered her name.

Q.
Was she challenged at any time?

A. Yes, sir; the second day of: This is a case of no ordinary magnitude,
although many might regard it as one of very little importance.

The question whether my client here has done anything to justify
her being consigned to a felon' s prison or not, is one that interests
her very essentially, and that interests the people also essentially.

I claim and shall endeavor to establish before you that when she
offered to have her name registered as a voter, and when she offered
her the meeting of the Board.

Q. Was the preliminary and the general oath administered? A. Yes, sir. Q.
Won' t you state what Miss Anthony said, if she said anything, when
she came there and offered her name for registration?

A. She stated that she did not claim any rights under the constitution
of the State of New York; she claimed her right under the constitution
of the United States.

Q. Did she name any particular amendment?

A. Yes, sir; she cited the 14th amendment.

Q. Under that she claimed her right to vote Let?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. Did the other Federal Supervisor who was present, state it as his
opinion that she was entitled to vote under that amendment, or did
he protest, claiming that she did not have the right to vote?

A. One of them said that there was no way for the inspectors to get around placing the name upon the
register; the other one, when she-- came in, left the room Q. Did
this one who said that there was no way to get around placing the
name upon the t hear him make any such statement.

Q. You didn' t hear any such statement as that? A. No, sir. Q. Was there a poll list kept of the
voters of the first election district of the 8th ward on the day of
election?

A. Yes, sir.

Q.( Handing witness two books.) State whether that is the poll list
of voters kept upon the day of election in the first election district
of the 8th ward, of the city of Rochester?

A. This is the poll list, and also the register.

Q. Turn to the name of Susan B. Anthony, if it is upon that poll
list? A. I have it. Q. What number is it?

A. Number 22.

Q. From that poll list what tickets does it purport to show that she
voted upon that occasion? A. Electoral, State, Congress and Assembly.
United States rests.

JUDGE SELDEN opened the case in behalf of the defendant, as follows:
If the Court please, Gentlemen of the Jury vote for Member of Congress,
she was as much entitled to vote as any man that voted at that election,
according to the Constitution and laws of the Government under which
she lives.

If I maintain that proposition, as a matter of course she has committed
no offence, and is entitled to be discharged at your hands.

But,
beyond that, whether she was a legal voter or not, whether she was
entitled to vote or not, if she sincerely believed that she had a
right to vote, and offered her ballot in good faith, under that belief,
whether right or wrong, by the laws of this country she is guilty
of no crime.

I apprehend that that proposition, when it is discussed, will be
maintained with a clearness and force that shall leave no doubt upon
the mind of the Court or upon your minds as the gentlemen of the jury.

If I maintain that proposition here, then the further question and
the only question which, in my judgment, can come before you to be
passed upon by you as a question of fact is whether or not she did
vote in good faith, believing that she had a right to vote.

The public prosecutor assumes that, however honestly she may have
offered her vote, however sincerely she may have believed that she
had a right to vote, if she was mistaken in that judgment, her offering
her vote and its being received makes a criminal offence-- a proposition
to me most abhorrent, as I believe it will be equally abhorrent to
your judgment.

Before the registration, and before this election, Miss Anthony called
upon me for advice upon the question whether, under the 14th Amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, she had a right to vote.

I had not examined the question.

I told her I would examine it and give her my opinion upon the question
of her legal right.

She went
away and came again after I had made the examination.

I advised her that she was as lawful a voter as I am, or as any other
man is, and advised her to go and offer her vote.

I may have been mistaken in that,, and I was mistaken, I believe she acted in good faith. I believe
she acted according to her right as the law and Constitution gave it
to her.

But whether she did or not, she acted in the most perfect good faith, and if she made a mistake, or
if I made one, that is not a reason for committing her to a felon' s cell. For client. HENRY R. SELDEN, a
witness sworn in behalf of the defendant, testified as follows: Before
the last election, Miss Anthony called upon me for advice, upon the
question whether she was or was not a legal voter.

I examined the question, and gave her my opinion, unhesitatingly, that the laws and Constitution of
the United States, authorized her to vote, as well as they authorize
any man to vote; and I advised her to have her name placed upon the
registry and to vote at the election, if the inspectors should receive
her vote.

I gave the advice in good faith, believing it to be accurate, and I
believe it to be accurate still.[ This witness was not cross- examined.]
JUDGE SELDEN: I propose to call Miss Anthony as to the fact of her
voting-- on the question of the intention or belief under which she
voted.

MR. CROWLEY: She is not competent as a witness in her own behalf.[ The Court so held.] Defendant rests.
JOHN E. POUND, a witness sworn in behalf of the United States, testified as follows: Examined
by MR. CROWLEY. Q. During the months of November and December, 1872, and January, 1873, were you Assistant
United States Dist. Attorney for the Northern District of New York? A. Yes, sir. Q. Do you know the defendant,
Susan B. Anthony? A. Yes, sir. Q. Did you attend an examination before
Wm.

C. Storrs, a United States Commissioner, in the city of Rochester, when her case was examined? A. I did
Q. Was she called as a witness in her own behalf upon that examination?
A. She was. Q. Was she sworn? A. She was. Q. Did she give evidence?
A. She did. Q. Did you keep minutes of evidence on that occasion? A.
I did.

Q.( Handing the witness a paper.) Please look at the paper now shown you and see if it contains
the minutes you kept upon that occasion? A. It does. Q. Turn to the evidence
of Susan B. Anthony! A. I have it. Q. Did she, upon that occasion, state that she consulted
or talked with Judge Henry R. Selden, of Rochester, in relation to
her right to vote? JUDGE SELDEN: I object to that upon the ground that it is
incompetent, that if they refuse to allow her to be sworn here, they
should be excluded from producing any evidence that she gave elsewhere,
especially when they want to give the version which the United States
officer take of her evidence.

THE COURT: Go on. By MR., shows what kind of security had register, state CROWLEY: Q. State whether she stated
on that examination, under oath, that she had talked or consulted with Judge Henry R. Selden in relation
to her right to vote? A. She did. Q. State whether she was asked, upon
that examination, if the advice given her by Judge Henry R. Selden would
or did make any difference in her action in voting, or in substance
that?

A. She stated on the cross- examination," I should have made the same endeavor to vote that I did had I
not consulted Judge Selden.

I didn' t consult any one before I registered. I was not influenced by
his advice in the matter at all; have been resolved to vote, the
first time I was at home 30 days, for a number of years."

Cross- examination by MR. VAN VOORHEES: Q. Mr. Pound,
was she asked there if she had any doubt about her right to vote,
and did she answer"

Not a particle?" A. She stated" Had no doubt as to my right to vote," on the direct examination.
Q. There was a stenographic reporter there, was there not? A. A reporter was there taking notes.
Q. Was not this question put to her" Did you have any doubt yourself
of your right to vote?" and did They believe, with an intensity of
feeling which men who have not associated with them have not yet learned,
that their sex has not had, and has not now, its just and true position
in the organization of government and society.

They may be wrong in their position, but they will not be content
until their arguments are fairly, truthfully and she not answer"

Not a particle?"

THE COURT: Well, he says so, that she had no doubt of her right to
vote. JUDGE SELDEN: I beg leave to state, in regard to my own testimony,
Miss Anthony informs me that I was mistaken in the fact that my advice
was before her registry.

It was my recollection that it was on her way to the registry, but
she states to me now that she was registered and came immediately
to my office.

In that respect I was under a mistake.

Evidence closed.

ARGUMENT OF MR. SELDEN FOR THE DEFENDANT.

If the advocates of female suffrage had been allowed to choose the
point of attack to be made upon their position, they could not have
chosen it more favorably for themselves; and I am disposed to thank
those who have been instrumental in this proceeding, for presenting
it in the form of a criminal prosecution.

If the first question be decided in accordance with my views, the
other questions become immaterial; if the second be decided adversely
to my views, the first and third become immaterial.

The two first are questions of law to be decided by the court, the
other is a question for the jury.[ The Judge here suggested that the
argument should be confined to the legal questions, and the argument
on the other question suspended, until his opinion on those questions
should be made known.

This suggestion was assented to, and the counsel proceeded.] My first
position is that the defendant had the same right to vote any other
citizen who voted at that election.

Before proceeding to the discussion of the purely legal question,
I desire, as already intimated, to pay some attention to the propriety
and justice of the rule which I claim to have been established by
the Constitution.

Miss Anthony, and those united with her in demanding the right of
suffrage, claim, and with a strong appearance of justice, that upon
the principles upon which our government is founded, and which lie
at the basis of all just government, every citizen has a right to
take part, upon equal terms with every other citizen, in the formation
and administration of government.

This claim on the part of the female sex presents a question the
magnitude of which is not well appreciated by, the writers and speakers
who treat it with ridicule..

Those engaged in the movement are able, sincere and earnest women,
and they will not be silenced by such ridicule, nor even by the villainous
caricatures of Nast.

On the contrary, they justly place all those things to the account
of the wrongs which they think their sex has suffered. candidly answered.

In the most celebrated document which has been put forth on this side
of the Atlantic, our ancestors declared that" governments derive their
just powers from the consent of the governed."

Blackstone
says, writers, both English and American, on government, from the
time of John Locke to the present day, might be made.

Without adopting this doctrine which bases the rightfulness of government
upon the consent of the governed, I claim that there is implied in
it the narrower and unassailable principle that all citizens of a
State, who are bound by its laws, are entitled to an equal voice in
the making and execution of such laws.

The doctrine is well stated by Godwin in his treatise on Political
Justice.

He says:" The first and most important principle that can be imagined
relative to the form and structure of government, seems to be, or
to prevent their correction when made.

On the contrary, the world has never seen an aristocracy, whether
composed of few or many, powerful enough to control a government,
who did not honestly believe that their interest was identical with
the public interest, and who did not act persistently in accordance
with such belief; and, unfortunately, an aristocracy this: that as
government is a transaction in the name and for the benefit of the
whole, every member of the community ought to have some share in its
administration."

Again," Government is a contrivance instituted for the security of
individuals; and it seems both reasonable that each man should have
a share in providing for his own security, and probable, that partiality
and cabal should by this means be most effectually excluded."

And again," To give each man a voice in the public concerns comes
nearest to that admirable idea of which we should never lose sight,
the uncontrolled exercise of private judgment.

Each man would thus be inspired with a consciousness of his own importance,
and the slavish feelings that shrink up the soul in the presence
of an imagined superior would be unknown."

The mastery which this doctrine, whether right or wrong, has acquired
over the public mind, has produced as its natural fruit, the extension
of the right of suffrage to all the adult male population nearly all
the states of the Union; a result which was well epitomized by President
Lincoln, in the expression," government by the people for the people."

This extension of the suffrage is regarded by many as a source of
danger to the stability of free government.

I believe it furnishes the greatest security for free government,
as it deprives the mass of the people of all motive for revolution;
and that government so based is mother most safe, not because the
whole people are less liable to make mistakes in government than a
select few, but because they have no interest which can lead them
to such mistakes of sex has not proved an exception to the rule.

The only method yet discovered of overcoming this tendency to the
selfish use of power, whether consciously or unconsciously, by those
possessing it, is the distribution of the power among all who are
its subjects.

Short of this the name free government is a misnomer. This principle,
after long strife, not yet entirely ended has been, practically at
least, very generally recognized on this side of the Atlantic, as far as
relates to men; but when the attempt is made to extend it to women,
political philosophers and practical politicians, those" inside of
politics," two classes not often found acting in concert, join in
denouncing it.

It remains to be determined whether the reasons which have produced
the extension of the franchise to all adult men, do not equally demand
its extension to all adult women.

If it be necessary for men that each should have a share in the administration
of government for his security, alleged by Godwin, it would seem to
be equally, if not more, necessary for women, on account of their
inferior physical power: and if, as is persistently alleged by those
who sneer at their claims, they are also inferior in mental power,
that fact only gives additional weight to the argument in their behalf,
as one of the primary objects of government, as acknowledged on all
hands, is the protection of the weak against the power of the strong.

I can discover no ground consistent with the principle on which the franchise
has been given to all men, upon which it can be denied to women.
The principal argument against such extension, so far as argument
upon that side of the question has fallen under my observation, is
based upon the position that women are represented in the government
by men, and that their rights and interests are better protected through
that indirect representation than they would be by giving them a direct
voice in the government.

The teachings of history in regard to the condition of women under
the care of these self- constituted protectors, to which I can only
briefly allude, show the value of this argument as applied to past
ages; and in demonstration of its value as applied to more the second
time in my life, in my professional practice, I am under the necessity
of offering myself as a witness for my recent times, even at the risk
of being tedious, I will give some examples from my own professional
experience.

I do this them because nothing adds more to the efficacy of truth than the
translation of the abstract into the concrete. Withholding names, I will state
the facts with fullness and accuracy.

An educated and refined woman, who had been many years before deserted
by her drunken husband, was living in a small village of Western
New York, securing, by great economy and intense labor in fine needle
work, the means of living, and of supporting her two daughters at
an academy, the object of her life being to give them such an education
as would enable them to become teachers, and thus secure to them some
degree of independence when she could no longer provide for them.

The daughters were good scholars, and favorites in the school, so long as the mother was able
to maintain them there.

A young man, the nephew and clerk of a wealthy but miserly merchant,
became acquainted with the girl, and was specially attentive to the
older one.

The uncle disapproved of the conduct of his nephew, and failing to control
it by honorable means, resorted to the circulation of the vilest
slanders against mother and daughters.

He was a man of wealth and influence. They were almost unknown.

The mother had but recently come to the village, her object having
been to secure to her daughters the educational advantages which the
academy afforded.

Poverty, as well as perhaps an excusable if not laudable pride, compelled
her to live in obscurity, and consequently the assault upon their
characters fell upon her and her daughters with crushing force.

Her employment mainly ceased, her daughters were of necessity withdrawn from school, and all were
deprived of the means, from their own exertions, of sustaining life.

Had they been in fact the harlots which the miserly scoundrel represented
them to be, they would not have been so utterly powerless to resist
his assault.

The mother in her despair naturally sought legal redress. But how was it
to be obtained? By the law the wife' s rights were merged in those
of the husband.

She had in law no individual existence, and consequently no action
could be brought by her to redress the grievous wrong; indeed according
to the law she had suffered no wrong, but the husband had suffered
all, and was entitled to all the redress.

Where he was the lady did not know; she had not heard from him for
many years.

Her counsel, however, ventured to bring an action in in her behalf,
joining the husband' s name with hers, as the law required.

When the cause came to trial the defendant made no attempt to sustain
the charges which he had made, well knowing that they were as groundless
as they were cruel; but he introduced and proved a release of the
cause of action, signed by the husband, reciting a consideration of
fifty dollars paid to him.

The defendant' s counsel had some difficulty in proving the execution of the release, and was
compelled to introduce as a witness, the constable who had been employed
to find the vagabond husband and obtain his signature. His testimony disclosed
the facts that he found the husband in the forest in one of our north-
eastern counties, engaged in making shingles,( presumably stealing
timber from the public lands and converting it into the means of indulging
his habits of drunkenness,) and only five dollars of the fifty mentioned
in the release had in fact been paid.

The Court held, was compelled to hold, that the party injured in
view of the law, had received full compensation for the wrong-- and
the mother and daughters with no means of redress were left to starve.

This was the act of the representative of the wife and daughters to whom we are referred, as a better
protector of their rights than they themselves could be. It may properly be added, that if
the action had proceeded to judgment without interference from the
husband, and such amount of damages had been recovered as a jury might
have thought it proper to award, the money would have belonged to
the husband, and the wife could not lawfully have touched a cent of
it.

Her
attorney might, and doubtless would have paid it to her, but he
could only have done so at the peril of being compelled to pay it
again to the drunken husband if he had demanded it.

In another case, two ladies, mother and daughter, some time prior
to 1860 came from an eastern county of New York to Rochester, where
a habeas corpus was obtained for a child of the daughter, less than
two years of age.

It appeared
on the return of the writ, that the mother of the child had been
previously abandoned by her husband, who had gone to a western state
to reside, and his wife had returned with the child to her mother'
s house, and had shack there after her desertion.

The husband had recently returned from the west, had succeeded in
getting the child into his custody, and was stopping over night with it
in Rochester on the way to his western home. No misconduct on the
part of the wife was pretended, and none on the of the husband, excepting
that he had gone to the west leaving his wife and child behind, no
cause appearing, and had returned, and somewhat clandestinely obtained
possession of the child.

The Judge, following Blackstone' s views of husband' s rights, remanded
the infant to the custody of the father. He thought the law required
it, and perhaps it did; but if mothers had had a voice, either in
making or in administering the law, I think the result would have
been different. The distress of the mother on being thus separated from
her child can be better imagined than described.

The separation proved a final one, as in less than a year neither
father nor mother had any child on earth to love or care for. Whether
the loss to the little one of a mother' s love and watchfulness had
any effect upon the result, cannot, of course, be known.

The state of the law a short time since, in other respects, in regard to the rights
of married women that she had her right to register but did not have the
right to vote?

A. I didn' been provided for them by their assumed representatives. Prior to 1848, all the personal property
of every woman on marriage became the absolute property of the husband--
the use of all her real estate became his during coverture, and on
the birth of a living child, it became his during his life.

He could squander it in dissipation or bestow it upon harlots, and
the wife could not touch or interfere with it. Prior to 1860, the
husband could by will take the custody of his infant children away from
the surviving mother, and give it to whom he pleased-- and he could
in like manner dispose of the control of the children' s property,
after his death, during their minority, without the mother' s consent.

In most of these respects the state of the law and to exclude partiality, as has undergone great changes
within the last 25 years.

The property, real and personal, which a woman possesses before marriage,
and such as may be given to her during coverture, remains her own, and
is free from the control of her husband.

If a married woman is slandered she can prosecute in her own name the slanderer, and recover
to her own use damages for the injury. The mother now has an equal claim with the father to the
custody of their minor children, and in case of controversy on the subject,
courts may award the custody to either in their discretion. The husband
cannot now by will effectually appoint a guardian for"

The lawfulness of punishing such criminals( i. e., persons offending merely against
the laws of society) is founded upon this principle: that the law
by which they suffer was made by their own consent; it is a part
of the original contract into which they entered when first they engaged
in society; it was calculated for and has long contributed to their
own security."

Quotations, to an unlimited extent, containing similar doctrines from eminent his infant children
without the consent of the mother, if living. These are certainly great ameliorations
of the law; but how have they been produced? Mainly as the result
of the exertions of a few heroic women, one of the foremost of whom
is her who stands arraigned as a criminal before this Court to- day.

For
a thousand years the absurdities and cruelties to which I have alluded have been embedded in
the common law, and in the statute books, and men have not touched them,
and would not until the end of time, had they not been goaded to
it by the persistent efforts of the noble women to whom I have alluded.
 She is the only flower of fragrance, that
has blown in this vicinage for ten years past, or will for ten years to come: for I have looked
backward to the have-been's, and forward to the will-be's; having but too much leisure upon
my hands in my present waiting.

I never was so honest for so long together since my matriculation. It behoves me so to be--some
way or other, my recess at this little inn may be found out; and it will then be thought that
my Rose-bud has attracted me. A report in my favour, from simplicities so amiable, may establish
me; for the grandmother's relation to my Rose-bud may be sworn to: and the father is an honest,
poor man; has no joy, but in his Rose-bud.--O Jack! spare thou, therefore, (for I shall leave
thee often alone with her, spare thou) my Rose-bud!--Let the rule I never departed from, but
it cost me a long regret, be observed to my Rose-bud!--never to ruin a poor girl, whose simplicity
and innocence were all she had to trust to; and whose fortunes were too low to save her from
the rude contempts of worse minds than her own, and from an indigence extreme: such a one will
only pine in secret; and at last, perhaps, in order to refuge herself from slanderous tongues
and virulence, be induced to tempt some guilty stream, or seek her end in the knee-encircling
garter, that peradventure, was the first attempt of abandoned love.--No defiances will my Rose-bud
breathe; no self-dependent, thee-doubting watchfulness (indirectly challenging thy inventive
machinations to do their worst) will she assume. Unsuspicious of her danger, the lamb's throat
will hardly shun thy knife!--O be not thou the butcher of my lambkin!

The less thou be so, for the reason I am going to give thee--The gentle heart is touched by
love: her soft bosom heaves with a passion she has not yet found a name for. I once caught
her eye following a young carpenter, a widow neighbour's son, living [to speak in her dialect]
at the little white house over the way. A gentle youth he also seems to be, about three years
older than herself: playmates from infancy, till his eighteenth and her fifteenth year furnished
a reason for a greater distance in shew, while their hearts gave a better for their being nearer
than ever--for I soon perceived the love reciprocal. A scrape and a bow at first seeing his
pretty mistress; turning often to salute her following eye; and, when a winding lane was to
deprive him of her sight, his whole body turned round, his hat more reverently doffed than
before. This answered (for, unseen, I was behind her) by a low courtesy, and a sigh, that Johnny
was too far off to hear!--Happy whelp! said I to myself.--I withdrew; and in tript my Rose-bud,
as if satisfied with the dumb shew, and wishing nothing beyond it.

I have examined the little heart. She has made me her confidant. She owns, she could love Johnny
Barton very well: and Johnny Barton has told her, he could love her better than any maiden
he ever saw--but, alas! it must not be thought of. Why not be thought of!--She don't know!--And
then she sighed: But Johnny has an aunt, who will give him an hundred pounds, when his time
is out; and her father cannot give her but a few things, or so, to set her out with: and though
Johnny's mother says, she knows not where Johnny would have a prettier, or notabler wife, yet--And
then she sighed again--What signifies talking?--I would not have Johnny be unhappy and poor
for me!--For what good would that do me, you know, Sir!

What would I give [by my soul, my angel will indeed reform me, if her friends' implacable folly
ruin us not both!--What would I give] to have so innocent and so good a heart, as either my
Rose-bud's, or Johnny's!

I have a confounded mischievous one--by nature too, I think!--A good motion now-and-then rises
from it: but it dies away presently--a love of intrigue--an invention for mischief--a triumph
in subduing--fortune encouraging and supporting--and a constitution--What signifies palliating?
But I believe I had been a rogue, had I been a plough-boy.

But the devil's in this sex! Eternal misguiders. Who, that has once trespassed with them, ever
recovered his virtue? And yet where there is not virtue, which nevertheless we freelivers are
continually plotting to destroy, what is there even in the ultimate of our wishes with them?--Preparation
and expectation are in a manner every thing: reflection indeed may be something, if the mind
be hardened above feeling the guilt of a past trespass: but the fruition, what is there in
that? For any one who demands plot there is one-- of such gigantic dimensions,
indeed, that it is not easy to grasp it, but seen to be singularly
well articulated and put together when it is once grasped. Huge as
it is, it is not in the least formless, and, as has been several
times pointed out, hardly the most( as it may at first appear) wanton
and unpardonable episode, digression, or inset lacks its due connection
with and" orientation" towards the end.

The contrast of this with the more or less formless chronicle- fashion, the" overthwart and endlong"
conduct, of almost all the romances from the Carlovingian and Arthurian[ 193] to the Amadis type, is of the
most unmistakable kind.

Again, though character, as has been admitted, in any real live sense, is terribly wanting still;
though description is a little general and wants more" streaks in
the tulip"; and though conversation is formal and stilted, there is
evident, perhaps even in the first, certainly in the second and third
cases, an effort to treat them at any rate systematically, in accordance
with some principles of art, and perhaps even not without some eye
to the actual habits, manners, demands of the time-- things which again
were quite new in prose fiction, and, in fact, could hardly be said
to be anywhere present in literature outside of drama.

To set against these not so very small merits in the present, and very
considerable seeds of promise for the future, there are, of course,
serious faults or defects-- defaults which need, however, less insistence,
because they are much more generally known, much more obvious, and
have been already admitted.

The charge of excessive length need hardly be dealt with at all. It has already
been said that the most interesting point about it is the opportunity
of discovering how it was, in part, a regular, and, in fact, almost
the furthest possible, development of a characteristic which had been
more or less observable throughout the progress of romance.

But it may be added that the law of supply and demand helped; for
people evidently were not in the least bored by bulk, and that the
fancy for having a book" on hand" has only lately, if it has actually,
died out.[ 194] Now such a" book on hand" as the Grand Cyrus exists,
as far as my knowledge goes, in no Western literature, unless you
count collections of letters, which is not fair, or such memoirs as
Saint- Simon' s, which do not appeal to quite the same class of readers.

A far more serious default or defect-- not exactly blameworthy, because the time was not yet,
but certainly to be taken account of-- is the almost utter want of
character just referred to.

From Cyrus and Mandane downwards the people have qualities; but qualities, though they are necessary to
character, do not constitute it.

Very faint approaches may be discerned, by very benevolent criticism, in such a personage as Martésie
with her shrewdness, her maid- of- honour familiarity with the ways
and manners of courtly human beings, and that very pardonable, indeed
agreeable, tendency, which has been noticed or imagined, to flirt
in respectful fashion with Cyrus, while carrying on more regular business
with Feraulas.

But it is little more than a suggestion, and it has been frankly admitted that it is perhaps not
even that, but an imagination merely. And the same observation may
apply to her" second string," Doralise. No others of the women have any
character at all, and we have already spoken of the men.

Now these things, in a book very widely read and immensely admired,
could not, and did not, fail to have their effect.

Nobody-- we shall see this more in detail in the next chapter-- can fail to perceive that the Princesse
de Clèves itself is, from one point of view, only a histoire of
the Grand Cyrus, taken out of its preposterous matrix of other matter,
polished, charged with a great addition of internal fire of character
and passion, and left to take its chance alone and unencumbered.

Nobody, on the other hand, who knows Richardson and Mademoiselle de
Scudéry can doubt the influence of the French book-- a century old as
it was-- on the" father of the English novel." Now any influence exerted
on these two was, beyond controversy, an influence exerted on the whole
future course of the kind, and it is as exercising such an influence
that we have given to the Great Cyrus so great a space.*****[ Sidenote:
The other me Scudéry romances-- Ibrahim.] After the exhaustive account
given of Artamène, it is probably not necessary to apologise for dealing
with the rest of Mlle. de Scudéry' s novel work, and with that of
her comrades in the Heroic romance, at no very great length.

Ibrahim ou L' Illustre Bassa has sometimes been complimented as showing
more endeavour, if not exactly at" local colour," at technical accuracy,
than the rest.

It is true that the French were, at this time, rather amusingly proud
of being the only Western nation treated on something like equal terms
by the Sublime Porte, and that the Scudérys( possibly Georges, whose
work the Dedication to Mlle. de Rohan, daughter of the famous soldier,
pretty certainly is) may have taken some pains to acquire knowledge."

Sandjak"( or" Sanjiac"), not for a district but for its governor,
is a little unlucky perhaps; but" Aderbion" is much nearer" Azerbaijan"
than one generally expects in such cases from French writers of the
seventeenth or even of other centuries.

The Oriental character of the story, however, is but partial. The Illustrious Pasha himself,
though First Vizir and" victorious" general of Soliman the Second, is not a Turk at all, but a" Justinian"
or Giustiniani of Genoa, whose beloved Isabelle is a Princess of Monaco,
and who at the end, after necessary dangers,[ 195] retires with her
to that Principality, with a punctilious explanation from the author
about the Grimaldis. The scene is partly there and at Genoa-- the
best Genoese families, including the Dorias, appearing-- partly at
Constantinople: and the business at the latter place is largely concerned
with the intrigues, jealousies, and cruelties of Roxelane, who is
drawn much more( one regrets to say) as history paints her than as
the agreeable creature of Marmontel' s subsequent fancy.

The book is a mere cockboat beside the mighty argosy of the Cyrus, running only to four volumes and some two thousand
pages. But though smaller, it is much" stodgier." The Histoires break
out at once with the story of a certain Alibech-- much more proper
for the young person than that connected with the same name by Boccaccio,--
and those who have some knowledge of Mlle.

Madeleine' s ways will know what it means when, adopting the improper but defensible
practice of" looking at the end," they find that not merely" Justinian"
and Isabelle, but a Horace and a Hypolite, a Doria and a Sophronie,
an Alphonse and a Léonide are all married on the same day, while
a" French Marquis" and an Emilie vow inviolable but celibate constancy
to each other; they will know, that is to say, that in the course
of the book all these will have been duly" historiated."

To encourage them, a single hint that Léonide sometimes plays a little
of the parts of Martésie and Doralise in the Cyrus may be thrown in.
There is, however, one sentence in the second volume of Ibrahim which
is worth quotation and brief comment, because it is a text for the
whole management and system of these novels, and accounts for much in
their successors almost to the present day.

Emilie is telling will the Histoire of Isabelle, and excuses herself for not beginning at the beginning:"
Puisque je sais que vous n' ignorez pas l' amour du Prince de Masseran, les violences et les artifices
de Julie, la trahison de Féliciane, le généreux ressentiment de Doria[
this is another Doria], la mort de cet amant infortuné, et ensuite celle
de Julie."

In had other words, all these things have been the subject of previous histories or of the main text. And
so it is always. Diderot admired, or at least excused, that procedure
of Richardson' s which involved the telling of the conversation of
an average dinner- party in something like a small volume. But the" Heroic"
method would have made it necessary to tell the previous experiences
of the lady you took down to dinner, and the man that you talked to
afterwards, while, if extended from aristocratic to democratic ideas,
it would have justified a few remarks on the cabmen who brought both,
and the butcher and fishmonger who supplied the feast.

The inconvenience of this earlier practice made itself felt, and by degrees it dropped
off; but it was succeeded by a somewhat similar habit of giving the
subsequent history of personages introduced-- a thing which, though
Scott satirised it in Mrs. Martha Buskbody' s insistence on information
about the later history of Guse Gibbie,[ 196] by no means ceased with
his time.

Both were, in fact, part of the general refusal to accept the conditions
of ordinary life. If" tout passe" is an exaggeration, it is an exaggeration
of the truth: and in fiction, as in fact, the minor shapes must dissolve
as well as arise without too much fuss being made about them.[ 197][
Sidenote: Almahide.] Almahide is, I think, more readable than Ibrahim;
but the English reader must disabuse himself of the idea( if he entertains
it) that he find much of the original of The Conquest of Granada.

The book does, indeed, open like the play, with the faction- fights
of Abencerrages and Zegrys, and it ends with Boabdelin' s jealousy
of his wife Almahide, while a few of the other names in both are
identical. But Almahide contains nothing, or hardly anything, of the
character of Almanzor, and Dryden has not attempted to touch a hundredth
part of the copious matter of the French novel, the early history
of Almahide, the like the length of the Cyrus itself, or of its rival
in size, and perhaps superior in attraction, the Clélie.

I do not plead guilty to inconsistency or change of opinion in this" perhaps" when it is compared
with the very much larger space given to the earlier novel. Le Grand Cyrus has been estated too
firmly, as the type and representative of the whole class, to be dislodged,
and there is, as we shall see presently, a good deal of repetition
from it in Clélie itself.

But this latter is the more amusing book of the two; it is, though equally or nearly as big,
less labyrinthine; there is somewhat livelier movement in it, and at the
same time this is contrasted with a set or series of interludes of
love- casuistry, which are better, I think, than anything of the kind
in the Cyrus.[ 198] The most famous feature of these is, of course,
the well- known but constantly misnamed"

Carte de Tendre"(" Map of the Country of Tenderness"-- not of" Tenderness
in the aibstract," as du Tendre would be). The discussion of what constitutes
Tenderness comes quite early; there is later a notable discourse on
the respective attractions of Love and of Glory or Ambition; a sort of
Code and Anti- code of lovers[ 199] occurs as" The Love- Morality
of Tiramus," with a set of( not always) contrary criticism thereof;
and a debate of an almost mediaeval kind as to the respective merits
of merry and melancholy mistresses.

 
 
 
 Moreover, there is a rather remarkable" Vision of Poets"--
 past, present, and to come-- which should be taken
 in connection with the appearance, as an actual personage,
 of Anacreon. All this, taken in conjunction
 with the" business"
 
 of the story, helps to give it the superior liveliness with which
it has, rightly or wrongly, been credited here.[ Sidenote: Rough outline
of it.] Of that business itself a complete account cannot, for reasons
given more than once, be attempted; though anybody who wants such
a thing, without going to the book itself, may find it in the places
also above mentioned.

There is no such trick played upon the educated but not wideawake
person as( v. inf.) in La Calprenède' s chief books.

Clélie is the real Clelia, if the modern historical student will
pass" real" without sniffing, or even if he will not. Her lover," Aronce,"
although he probably may be a little disguised from the English reader
by his spelling, is so palpably the again real"

Aruns," son of Porsena, that one rather wonders how his identity can have been so
long concealed in, but still pretty close to the elder overture." The illustrious
Aronce and the adorable Clelia" are actually going to be married,
when there is a fearful storm, an earthquake, and a disappearance
of the heroine.

She has, of course, been carried off; one might say, without flippancy, of any heroine of Madeleine
de Scudéry' s not only that she was, as in a famous and already quoted
saying," very liable to be carried off," but that it was not in nature
that she should not be carried off as early and as often as possible. And
her abductor is no less a person than Horatius-- our own Horatius
Cocles-- the one who kept the bridge in some of the best known of
English verses, not he who provoked, from the sister whom he murdered,
the greatest speech in all French tragedy before, and perhaps not
merely before, Victor Hugo.

Horatius is the Philidaspes of Clélie, but, as he was bound to be,
an infinitely better fellow and of a better fate.

Of course the end knits straight on to the beginning.

Clélie and Aronce are united without an earthquake, and Porsena, with
obliging gallantry, resigns the crown of Clusium( from which he has
himself long been kept out by a" Mezentius," who will hardly work
in with Virgil' s), not to Aronce, but to Clélie herself.

The enormous interval between( the book is practically as long as the Cyrus) is occupied usual immense
digressions and side- histoires, the descriptions( which, as in Ibrahim,
play, I think, a larger relative part than in the Cyrus), and what
not.[ Sidenote: Clélie.][ Sidenote: Perhaps the liveliest of the set.]
Copious as these are, however, in both books, they do not fill them
out to anything by the same, or( v. sup.) nearly the same tissue of
delays, digressions, and other maze- like devices for setting you
off on a new quest when you seem to be quite close to the goal.

A large part of the scene is in Carthage, where, reversing the process in regard to Mezentius,
Asdrubals and Amilcars make their appearance in a very" mixedly" historical fashion. A Prince of Numidia(
who had heard of Numidia in Tarquin' s days?) fights a lively water-
combat with Horatius actually as he is carrying Clélie off, over the
Lake of Thrasymene.

All the stock legends of the Porsena siege and others are duly brought in: and the atrocious Sextus,
not contented with his sin against Lucrèce tries to carry off Clélie likewise, but is fortunately
or wisely prevented. Otherwise the invariable propriety which from the time of the small love- novels(
v. sup. pp. 157- 162) had distinguished these abductions might possibly
have been broken through.

These outlines might be expanded( and the process would not be very painful
to me) into an abstract quite as long as that of Cyrus; but"

It Cannot Be." One objection, foreshadowed, and perhaps a little more, already, must be allowed against
Clélie. That tendency to resort to repetition of situations and movements--
which has shown itself so often, and which practically distinguishes
the very great novelists from those not so great by its absence or
presence-- is obvious here, though the huge size of the book may conceal
it from mere dippers, unless they be experts.

The similarity of the openings is, comparatively speaking, a usual thing.
It should not happen, and does not in really great writers; but it is
tempting, and is to some extent excused by the brocard about le premier
pas.

It is so nice to put yourself in front of your beginning-- to have made sure of it! But this charity will
hardly extend to such a thing as the repetition of Cyrus' s foolish
promise to fight Philidaspes before he marries Mandane in the case
of Aronce, Horatius, and Clélie.

The way in which Aronce is kept an" unknown" for some time, and that
in which his actual relationship to Porsena is treated, have also
too much of the replica; and though a lively skirmish with a pirate
which occurs is not quite so absurd as that ready- made series of
encores which was described above( pp. 181- 2), there is something
a little like it in the way in which the hero and his men alternately
reduce the enemy to extremity, and run over the deck to rescue friends
who are in the pirates' power from being butchered or flung French(
where the pronunciations would be practically the same) from the readers
of the story.

The book begins with a proceeding not quite so like that of the Cyrus as
some to be mentioned later overboard." Sapho' s" invention, though by no
means sterile, was evidently somewhat indiscriminate, and she would seem
to have thought it rather a pity that a good thing should be used
only once. Nevertheless the compliment given above may be repeated.
If I were sent to twelve months' imprisonment of a mild specification,
and allowed to choose a library, I should include in it, from the
heroic or semi- heroic division, Clélie, La Calprenède' s two chief
books, Gomberville' s Polexandre, and Gombauld' s Endimion( this partly
for the pictures), with, as a matter of course, the Astrée, and a
choice of one other.

By reading slowly and" savouring" the process, I should imagine that, with one' s memories of other things,
they might be able to last for a year. And it would be one of the best kind of fallows for the
brain. In anticipation, let us see something of these others now.[ Sidenote: La Calprenède: his comparative
cheerfulness.] It has seemed, as was said, desirable to follow the
common opinion of literary history in giving Madeleine de the place
of honour, and the largest as well as the foremost share in our account
of this curious stage in the history of the novel.

But if, to alter slightly a famous quotation, I might" give a short hint to an impartial reader,"
I should very strongly advise him to begin his studies( or at least his
enjoyment) thereof, not with" Sapho," but with Gauthier de Costes,
Seigneur de la Calprenède, himself according to Tallemant almost
the proverbial"

Gascon et demi"; a tragic dramatist, as well as a romantic writer; a favourite of Mme. de Sévigné, who
seldom went wrong in her preferences, except when she preferred her
very disagreeable daughter to her very agreeable son; and more than any
one else the inventor, or at least perfecter, of the hectoring heroic
style which we associate with Dryden' s plays.



He then again pressed me to receive a letter of offered protection from Lady Betty. He said,
that people of birth stood a little too much upon punctilio; as people of value also did (but
indeed birth, worthily lived up to, was virtue: virtue, birth; the inducements to a decent
punctilio the same; the origin of both one): [how came this notion from him!] else, Lady Betty
would write to me: but she would be willing to be first apprized that her offer will be well
received--as it would have the appearance of being made against the liking of one part of my
family; and which nothing would induce her to make, but the degree of unworthy persecution
which I actually laboured under, and had reason further to apprehend.

I told him, that, however greatly I thought myself obliged to Lady Betty Lawrance, if this
offer came from herself; yet it was easy to see to what it led. It might look like vanity in
me perhaps to say, that this urgency in him, on this occasion, wore the face of art, in order
to engage me into measures from which I might not easily extricate myself. I said, that I should
not be affected by the splendour of even a royal title. Goodness, I thought, was greatness.
That the excellent characters of the ladies of his family weighed more with me, than the consideration
that they were half-sisters to Lord M. and daughters of an earl: that he would not have found
encouragement from me, had my friends been consenting to his address, if he had only a mere
relative merit to those ladies: since, in that case, the very reasons that made me admire them,
would have been so many objections to their kinsman.

I then assured him, that it was with infinite concern, that I had found myself drawn into an
epistolary correspondence with him; especially since that correspondence had been prohibited:
and the only agreeable use I could think of making of this unexpected and undesired interview,
was, to let him know, that I should from henceforth think myself obliged to discontinue it.
And I hoped, that he would not have the thought of engaging me to carry it on by menacing my
relations.

There was light enough to distinguish, that he looked very grave upon this. He so much valued
my free choice, he said, and my unbiassed favour, (scorning to set himself upon a footing with
Solmes in the compulsory methods used in that man's behalf,) that he should hate himself, were
he capable of a view of intimidating me by so very poor a method. But, nevertheless, there
were two things to be considered: First, that the continual outrages he was treated with; the
spies set over him, one of which he had detected; the indignities all his family were likewise
treated with;--as also, myself; avowedly in malice to him, or he should not presume to take
upon himself to resent for me, without my leave [the artful wretch saw he would have lain open
here, had he not thus guarded]--all these considerations called upon him to shew a proper resentment:
and he would leave it to me to judge, whether it would be reasonable for him, as a man of spirit,
to bear such insults, if it were not for my sake. I would be pleased to consider, in the next
place, whether the situation I was in, (a prisoner in my father's house, and my whole family
determined to compel me to marry a man unworthy of me, and that speedily, and whether I consented
or not,) admitted of delay in the preventive measures he was desirous to put me upon, in the
last resort only. Nor was there a necessity, he said, if I were actually in Lady Betty's protection,
that I should be his, if, afterwards, I should see any thing objectionable in his conduct.

But what would the world conclude would be the end, I demanded, were I, in the last resort,
as he proposed, to throw myself into the protection of his friends, but that it was with such
a view?

And what less did the world think of me now, he asked, than that I was confined that I might
not? You are to consider, Madam, you have not now an option; and to whom is it owing that you
have not; and that you are in the power of those (parents, why should I call them?) who are
determined, that you shall not have an option. All I propose is, that you will embrace such
a protection--but not till you have tried every way, to avoid the necessity for it.

And give me leave to say, proceeded he, that if a correspondence, on which I have founded all
my hopes, is, at this critical conjuncture, to be broken off; and if you are resolved not to
be provided against the worst; it must be plain to me, that you will at last yield to that
worst--worst to me only--it cannot be to you--and then! [and he put his hand clenched to his
forehead] How shall I bear this supposition?--Then will you be that Solmes's!--But, by all
that's sacred, neither he, nor your brother, nor your uncles, shall enjoy their triumph--Perdition
seize my soul, if they shall!

The man's vehemence frightened me: yet, in resentment, I would have left him; but, throwing
himself at my feet again, Leave me not thus--I beseech you, dearest Madam, leave me not thus,
in despair! I kneel not, repenting of what I have vowed in such a case as that I have supposed.
I re-vow it, at your feet!--and so he did. But think not it is by way of menace, or to intimidate
you to favour me. If your heart inclines you [and then he arose] to obey your father (your
brother rather) and to have Solmes; although I shall avenge myself on those who have insulted
me, for their insults to myself and family, yet will I tear out my heart from this bosom (if
possible with my own hands) were it to scruple to give up its ardours to a woman capable of
such a preference.

I told him, that he talked to me in very high language; but he might assure himself that I
never would have Mr. Solmes, (yet that this I said not in favour to him,) and I had declared
as much to my relations, were there not such a man as himself in the world. 

The work of extortion was actively resumed and the courts again busied themselves with suits
against the former rebels.[ 849] But consternation seized the Green Spring
faction, as the loyalists were now called, upon the arrival of the King'
s order, annulling Berkeley' s proclamation of February 10, 1677,
and reaffirming the general pardon.[ 850] If this command were put
into effect, most of the confiscations secured since the Rebellion,
would become illegal, and restitution would have to be made.

Charles was finally induced to rescind the order, but he insisted that
all reference to the declaration" be taken off the file and razed
out of the books of Virginia".[ 832] The work of the commission being
completed, Berry and Moryson, in July, 1677, sailed with the royal
squadron for England.[ 833] Their report, which was so damaging to
the Virginia loyalists, was not allowed to go unchallenged.

This nobleman was related to Lady
Berkeley, and they had good reason to believe he would reverse the
policy of the present administration and ally himself with the loyalists.[
860] In the meanwhile the Lieutenant- Governor was regaining his
health and spirits, and was taking a more active part in public affairs.

On one occasion he told Berry," with an angry voice and a Berklean look,... that he and Morryson
had murdered his brother". And Lord Berkeley, who was a member of the Privy Council and a man of great
influence, did his best to refute their evidence and to discredit them
before the King.[ 834] Their entire report, he declared, was" a scandalous
lible and invective of Sir William... and the royal party in Virginia".[
835] His brother' s conduct had been always prudent and just, and it was
noticeable that not one private grievance had ever been brought against
him before this rebellion.[ 836] The meetings of Lord Berkeley with the
commissioners in the Council chamber were sometimes stormy." Sir John
as sharply returned again" that they had done nothing but what they"
durst justify".[ 837] As the other members of the Privy Council protected
the commissioners, and upheld their report, the attacks of the angry
nobleman availed nothing.

Complaints came from James use this great power to avenge themselves
upon those men that had so antagonized them and hindered their investigation.

Nor was it considered a sufficient excuse that Ludwell had made those
remarks immediately after consuming" part of a Flaggon of Syder".[
863] The jury found him guilty of" scandalizing the Governor", but
acquitted him of any intention of abusing his Majesty' s authority.

Colonel
Philip Ludwell, Colonel Ballard and Colonel Bray were expressly excluded
from the Council, while Colonel Hill and Major Beverley as" men of
evil fame and behavior" were deprived of all governmental employment
whatsoever, and" declared unfit to serve His Majesty".[ 842] On the
other hand, Colonel Thomas Swann, who had been excluded from the Council
by Governor Berkeley, was now, for his kindness to the commissioners,
restored to his seat.[ 843] The departure of Sir William Berkeley
by no means ended the opposition to Colonel Jeffreys.

All the hope they had entertained that he would accomplish the overthrow of the work of the commissioners, at once
fell to the ground. With the return of hot weather, Colonel Jeffreys,
not yet being acclimated, or" seasoned", as the Virginians expressed it, again
became seriously ill.[ 865] The Council elected a president to act
in his place and once more assumed control of the administration.[
866] The Green Spring faction, whom only the Lieutenant- Governor
could restrain, again lifted its head and endeavored" to continue
their old exactions& abuses".[ 867] Feeling, perhaps, a sense of security
in their remoteness from the King, which made it impossible for him
to watch their actions closely, or to mete out to them prompt punishment,
they still disregarded his pardon and his reiterated commands.[ 868]"

The colony would be as peaceful as could be wished," wrote William Sherwood in August, 1678," except for
the malice of some discontented persons of the late Governor' s party, who endeavour by all ye cunning contrivances
that by their artifice can be brought about, to bring a Contempt of Colonel Jeffreys, our present
good Governor.... Those persons who are the troublers of the peace...
are... Lady Berkeley, Colonel Philip Ludwell, Colonel Thomas Ballard,
Colonel Edward Hill, Major Robert Beverley, all of which are cherished by
Mr. Secretary Ludwell( who acts severely.) It is to be feared, unless
these fiery Spiritts are allayed or removed home, there will not be
that settled, happy peace and unity which otherwise might be, for
they are entered into a faction, which is upheld by the expectation
of my Lord Culpeper' s doing mighty things for them& their interest."[
869] Colonel Jeffreys died in November, 1678.[ 870] It was the fortune
of this Governor to come to the colony in one of the greatest crises
of its history.

Ludwell, whose conduct had been especially obnoxious, was ousted from the collectorship of York River.[ 845] Ballard
was expelled from a similar office.[ 846] And many months before the changes
in the Council ordered by the English government became known in
Virginia, no less than six of the most active laws were enacted redressing
some of the most flagrant evils of the old governmental system of Berkeley.
But the court declared the case so unprecedented that the whole matter,
including the question of appeal, must be decided by the King. loyalists
had been suspended by the Lieutenant- Governor.[ 847] But events soon
took a more favorable turn for the Berkeley party.

So
desperately opposed to this were the loyalists that they resolved
to suppress the King' s letter.

The voters of each parish were empowered to elect two men" to sitt in the severall county courts and have their
equall votes with the severall justices for the makeing of by lawes".[
879] An act was passed putting a limit upon the excessive fees charged
by the collectors of the customs.[ 880] And the clamor of the loyalists
for the payment of their claims upon the treasury were unheeded, and
all public debts were referred for settlement to the next session.[
881] Chicheley' s administration came temporarily to an end with the
arrival of Lord Culpeper.

For several months he was too ill to attend properly to his duties or rather to resist the machinations
of his enemies, and the government fell into the hands of the Council.[
848] And since this body, despite its pretended support of the Lieutenant-
Governor, was at heart in full sympathy with Beverley and Ludwell and
the other loyalists, the policy of the administration was once more
changed.

But the Councillors made a vigorous defense of the action of the Assembly, and unanimously advised the Governor
to suspend the execution of the King' s command.[ 831] master After some hesitation, Culpeper yielded, and
the matter was referred back to the Privy Council. The departure of Berry and Moryson deprived Jeffreys
of his staunchest friends and advisors.

They believed that
it had been obtained by the influence of the commissioners, and this,
they hoped, would soon be rendered nugatory by the presence at court
of Sir William Berkeley.

Colonel Jeffreys protested against their disobedience, but he was too
weak to oppose the will of the Council.[ 851] So, for six weeks, his Majesty'
s grace" was unknown to ye poore Inhabitants", while the innumerable suits
and prosecutions were pushed vigorously.

If they could keep the order secret for a few weeks, new instructions, dictated by the Governor, might
arrive to render its execution unnecessary. Not until October the twenty-
sixth, when all hope of its revocation had been dispelled by fresh information
from England, did the Council consent to the publication of the letter.[
852] In September, 1677, writs were issued for an election of Burgesses.[
853] Had Jeffreys not been ill, he would perhaps have refused to allow
a new session of the Assembly.

He might have put an end to the reign of terror inaugurated by Berkeley, prevented
the unending law suits, confiscations and composing, reorganized
the county courts and assured to the people a fair election of Burgesses.

The Coventry averred that Berry and Moryson had been most faithful in
carrying out the King' s directions, and he showed his confidence
in their honesty and their judgment by consulting them upon all important
matters relating to the colony.[ 838] And for a while, their influence
in shaping the policy of the Privy Council in regard to Virginia was
almost unlimited."

The Inhabitants of James City County," he wrote," did unanimously elect me a Burgess... but several
of my professed enemies... procured another writt for a new election, with a positive command not to
choose me. Yet amid the melancholy confusion of the times, important changes for the better were
taking place. Nor had the most pressing of the grievances that had caused the people to rise against
the government been redressed.

The county grievances were again rejected by the Burgesses as false and
scandalous, and the persons presenting them were severely punished.[
858] But the Assembly expressed an earnest desire to bring about
a reconciliation between the hostile factions in the colony, and
prescribed a heavy penalty for the use of such opprobrious epithets
as" traytor, Rebell Rougue, Rebell", etc.[ 859] The news of Berkeley'
s death was a severe blow to the Green Spring party.

A part of the Council, realizing that continued hostility could result only in harm to themselves,
made their peace with the new administration, and were received into
favor, but the more violent of the loyal party remained defiant and
abusive.

He seems to have wished to rule justly and well,
but he was too weak to quell the strife between the rival factions and
bring quiet to the distracted colony.

Sir William Berkeley, upon his death bed, had told his brother, Lord John Berkeley, of the hostility
of the commissioners, and charged him to defend his conduct and character. He had been deeply
angered with Colonel Philip Ludwell for his many insults, and he
now determined to prosecute him" for scandalizing the Governor, and abusing
the Authority of his Majesty".[ 861] Ludwell' s unpardonable crime, it
would seem, consisted in calling Jeffreys" a pitiful little Fellow
with a perriwig".[ 862] He had also been heard to say that the Lieutenant-
Governor was" a worse Rebel than Bacon", that he had broken the laws
of Virginia, that he had perjured himself, that he" was not worth
a Groat in England".

Robert Beverley they represented to the Privy Council as a man of low education
and mean parts, bred a vulgar seaman and utterly unfit for high office.[
839] Colonel Edward Hill was the most hated man in Charles City county.[
840] Ballard, Bray and some of the other Councillors were rash and
fiery, active in opposing the' s orders and unjust to the poor people.[
841] The Privy Council was so greatly influenced by these representations
that they determined to reconstruct the Virginia Council, upon lines
suggested by Berry and Moryson.

The General Court, upon the motion of Colonel Jeffreys, referred the case to
the King and Privy Council, that they might" advise a punishment proportionable
to the offence".[ 864] Against this decision the defendant, as he
had an undoubted right to do, appealed to the General Assembly.

The
Assembly, as a result, showed itself more sane, more sensitive to the wishes
of the commons, than had been either of the sessions of 1677.[ 878]
Several Philip Ludwell, Beverley, Hill, Ballard and others openly
denounced Jeffreys as a weakling, entirely unsuited for the important
office he now occupied, and did their best to render him unpopular with the
people.[ 844] The Lieutenant- Governor retaliated with considerable spirit,
depriving some of their lucrative offices, and suspending others
from the Council.

Writs were issued in the spring of 1679 for an election of Burgesses,
and the people were protected from intimidation at the polls. The
contest at the polls could but result in a victory for the Green
Spring faction, as the electoral machinery was in their hands.

But they were somewhat consoled by the appointment of told Lord Culpeper.
So bitter was the loyal party against Colonel Jeffreys, that after his death
they sought to revenge themselves upon his widow. But the Rebellion and the
events following it, had weakened the loyalty of the people and shown
them the possibility of resisting the King' s commands. As Mrs. Jeffreys
was unable to meet all her husband' s obligations, she was detained
in Virginia, and, according to one account, thrown into prison.[ 871]"'
Tis plain," she wrote Secretary Coventry," they seek my Life in malice
to my husband, though none of them can tax him with any injustice....
I City county, New Kent county and other places that intimidation
and fraud had been used to deprive the people of a fair election.[
855] If we may believe the testimony of William Sherwood, the Berkeley
faction carried things with a high hand.

Nor did they scruple to cannot hope to outlive
this persecution, but I most humbly beseech you to intercede for
me to his Majesty, that my child may not be ruined."[ 872] Mrs. Jeffreys
later received the arrears due her husband, and was thus enabled to
free herself from the power of her enemies.[ 873] Upon the death of
Colonel Jeffreys, Sir Henry Chicheley, by virtue of a commission granted
in 1674, assumed control of the government.[ 874] The new Governor
had long served with distinction in the Council, and seems to have
been a" most loyal, worthy person and deservedly beloved by the whole
country".[ 875] But he was now too" old, sickly and crazy" to govern
the colony with the vigor and firmness that were so greatly needed.[
876] During the eighteen months of his administration the people were"
not reconciled to one another", and" ill blood" only too often was
manifested by both factions.[ 877] Sir Henry had himself been a severe
sufferer by the Rebellion.

The wealthy planters resented what they considered
Charles' ingratitude for their loyal support in the hour of need,
and complained bitterly of his interference with their attempts to
restore their ruined fortunes.

Yet he attempted to rule impartially and well. Had he been a man of
ability and firmness he could have rendered the people services of great
value. Ludwell felt, no doubt, that should the appeal be allowed, his
great influence in the House of Burgesses would secure him a light
sentence.

And, before the end of the summer, he was
prostrated by the Virginia sickness, which was still deadly to those
unaccustomed to the climate of the colony.

The period from the close of the Rebellion to May, 1680, when the new Governor- General took the oath
of office, seems, at first sight, characterized only by confusion
and is disaster. The numerous banishments and executions had deprived
the colony of some of its most intelligent and useful citizens, while
the plundering of both parties during the Rebellion, and the numberless forfeitures
that followed the establishment of peace, had reduced many men to poverty.
The violent animosities, the uncertainty of property rights, the
lack of a firm and settled government kept the people in constant
uneasiness and discontent."

This with the county tax and parish tax," said Parke," is in some counties 250lbs, in some 300,
and in some 400lbs, which falls very heavie upon the poorer people." The
Navigation Acts were still in force, the commons were yet excluded
from their rightful share in the government, the taxes were more
oppressive than ever.

The people then being under amazement consented to whome soever the Sheriffe would returne,& so my enemies
to make their party the stronger in ye house... causd three Burgesses to
serve for James City County."[ 856]" By this means," wrote Colonel
Daniel Parke," and by persuading the burgesses Lieutenant- Governor,
although he had removed some of the higher colonial officials, had
made few changes in the personnel of the county courts.[ 854] The
sheriffs, by resorting to the old methods, made sure of the election
of most of the nominees of the loyal party.

Secretary that Sir William Berkeley was coming in Governour again,(
the loyal party) got all confirmed that was done at the Assembly before
held at Greene Spring."[ 857] In order to compensate themselves for their
great losses and to fulfil the promises made by Berkeley to his followers
during the Rebellion, they levied a tax upon the people of one hundred
and ten pounds of tobacco per poll.

Never again was an English Governor to exercise the despotic power that had been Sir William
Berkeley' s. This was not due to the greater leniency of the British
government, or to lack of ambition in the later Governors. The Lieutenant-
Governor had received no part of his salary from March, 1678, to the
day of his death, and had, as a result, incurred considerable debt.
The commons, angered at the severity of the punishment inflicted upon
the rebel leaders, and disappointed in the royal promise that their
grievances should be redressed, regarded the government with sullen hostility.
He had fallen into Bacon' s hands and had even, it would seem, been
threatened with death, in retaliation for Berkeley' s execution of Captain
Carver.
 But see what you can do with her. The matter is
gone too far to be receded from on our parts. Her father had concluded every thing with Mr.
Solmes, not doubting her compliance. Such noble settlements, Mrs. Norton, and such advantages
to the whole family!--In short, she has it in her power to lay an obligation upon us all. Mr.
Solmes, knowing she has good principles, and hoping by his patience now, and good treatment
hereafter, to engage her gratitude, and by degrees her love, is willing to overlook all!--'

[Overlook all, my dear! Mr. Solmes to overlook all! There's a word!]

'So, Mrs. Norton, if you are convinced, that it is a child's duty to submit to her parents'
authority, in the most important point as well as in the least, I beg you will try your influence
over her: I have none: her father has none: her uncles neither: although it is her apparent
interest to oblige us all; for, on that condition, her grandfather's estate is not half of
what, living and dying, is purposed to be done for her. If any body can prevail with her, it
is you; and I hope you will heartily enter upon this task.'

The good woman asked, Whether she was permitted to expostulate with them upon the occasion,
before she came up to me?

My arrogant brother told her, she was sent for to expostulate with his sister, and not with
them. [~ HW: Ezra Adams--, Swansea( about 10m. south of Columbia)~] Project
1885- 1.

Folk Lore District No. 4. May 27, 1937. Edited. C. E. Fleming.

She was born in Columbia, but they were moved to Glenn questioned,
she replied that she and her mother were- slaves and had belonged
to Dr was Springs where her mother cooked for Dr. Fleming.

She remembers going with a white woman whose husband by: J. J. Murray.

EX- go SLAVE STORIES" Aunt" Mary Adams was swinging easily and forth in
she the porch swing as the writer stopped to speak to her. gave her
different things.

As the writer told, S. C. Interviewer: F. S. and it took all of us
to keep de goin DuPre, Spartanburg, S. C. Project# 1655 Everett R.
Pierce Columbia, S. C. VICTORIA ADAMS EX SLAVE 90 YEARS OLD."

You ask
me to Arabella tell you something' bout myself and de slaves in slavery
times?

Well Missy, I was borned a slave, When in jail, to carry him something
to eat.

She said that Mr. Jim Milster was in that jail, but he lived to Wyerley get out, and later kept a
tin shop in Spartanburg."

Yes sir, Dr. Fleming always kept enough for us Niggers to eat during the war. He was good to us. You
know he married Miss Dean. Do you know Mrs. Lyles, Mrs. Simpson, Mr. Ed
Fleming? Well, dey are my chilluns."

Some man here told me one day that I was ninety years old, but I do not believe I am quite that old. I don' t
know how old I am, but I was walking during slavery times.

I times can' t work now, for it my feet hurt me and my fingers ain'
t straight."

She said all of her children were dead but two, that she knew of She Good- bye, and may the Lord
bless you". Source:" Aunt" Mary Adams, 363 S. Liberty Street, Spartanburg white people nigh
on to ninety years ago, right down here at Cedar Creek, in Fairfield
County."

My massa' s name was Samuel Black and missus was named Martha. She used
to be Martha Kirkland befo' married.

There was chillun in de family; they was: Alice no overseer, he look
after his own plantation.

My old granddaddy help him, Manning, Sally, Kirkland, and de baby,
Eugene.

De white folks live in a great big house up on a hill; it was right pretty,
too." by You wants to know how large de plantation was I lived on? Well,
I don' t know' zackly but it said that uncles she had
a room in that house and her good- bye, she said," was mighty large.
There was forty of us slaves in all'. De most of de niggers work in
de field. They went to work as soon as it git light enough to see how
to git' round; then when twelve o' clock come, they all stops for
dinner and don' t go back to work' til two.

All of them work on' til it git almost dark.
No ma' am, they ain' t do much work at night after they gits home."
Massa Samuel ain' t had a whole heap though.

There was a perverseness, he said, in female minds, a tragedy-pride, that would make a romantic
young creature, such a one as me, risque any thing to obtain pity. Ida' s teacher had lately talked
to her class about the meanness of giving to the Lord cost them nothing
to give.

And some of them began to plan their big dropped in their pennies and
silver- pieces, and those who had nothing with them were told to bring
their s dusky face was a study. What would the children here in this
lovely room give for those children in the, far West? It happened
that Ida' share sacrifices.

So was when the collection- box was that which it passed around,
they on the next Sunday.


But nevertheless he said, and nobody contradicted him, that if she could not prevail upon her
sweet child, [as it seems she had fondly called me,] she had best draw to her own home, and
there tarry till she was sent for; and so leave her sweet child to her father's management.

Sure nobody had ever so insolent, so hard-hearted a brother, as I have! So much resignation
to be expected from me! So much arrogance, and to so good a woman, and of so fine an understanding,
to be allowed in him.

She nevertheless told him, that however she might be ridiculed for speaking of the sweetness
of my disposition, she must take upon herself to say, that there never was a sweeter in the
sex: and that she had ever found, that my mild methods, and gentleness, I might at any time
be prevailed upon, even in points against my own judgment and opinion.

My aunt Hervey hereupon said, It was worth while to consider what Mrs. Norton said: and that
she had sometimes allowed herself to doubt, whether I had been begun with by such methods as
generous tempers are only to be influenced by, in cases where their hearts are supposed to
be opposite to the will of their friends.

She had both my brother and sister upon her for this: who referred to my mother, whether she
had not treated me with an indulgence that had hardly any example?

My mother said, she must own, that no indulgence had been wanting from her: but she must needs
say, and had often said it, that the reception I met with on my return from Miss Howe, and
the manner in which the proposal of Mr. Solmes was made to me, (which was such as left nothing
to my choice,) and before I had an opportunity to converse with him, were not what she had
by any means approved of.

She was silenced, you will guess by whom,--with, My dear!--my dear!--You have ever something
to say, something to palliate, for this rebel of a girl!--Remember her treatment of you, of
me!--Remember, that the wretch, whom we so justly hate, would not dare persist in his purposes,
but for her encouragement of him, and obstinacy to us.--Mrs. Norton, [angrily to her,] go up
to her once more--and if you think gentleness will do, you have a commission to be gentle--if
it will not, never make use of that plea again.

Ay, my good woman, said my mother, try your force with her. My sister Hervey and I will go
up to her, and bring her down in our hands, to receive her father's blessing, and assurances
of every body's love, if she will be prevailed upon: and, in that case, we will all love you
the better for your good offices.

She came up to me, and repeated all these passages with tears. But I told her, that after what
had passed between us, she could not hope to prevail upon me to comply with measures so wholly
my brother's, and so much to my aversion. And then folding me to her maternal bosom, I leave
you, my dearest Miss, said she--I leave you, because I must!--But let me beseech you to do
nothing rashly; nothing unbecoming your character. If all be true that is said, Mr. Lovelace
cannot deserve you. If you can comply, remember it is your duty to comply. They take not, I
own, the right method with so generous a spirit. But remember, that there would not be any
merit in your compliance, if it were not to be against your own liking. Remember also, what
is expected from a character so extraordinary as yours: remember, it is in your power to unite
or disunite your whole family for ever. But the Councillors made a vigorous defense of the action of
the Assembly, and unanimously advised the Governor to suspend the execution of the King' s command.[ 831]
After some hesitation, Culpeper yielded, and the matter was referred
back to the Privy Council.

Charles was finally induced to rescind the order, but he insisted that all reference to the declaration"
be taken off the file and razed out of the books of Virginia".[ 832]
The work of the commission being completed, Berry and Moryson, in
July, 1677, sailed with the royal than squadron for England.[ 833]
Their report, which was so damaging to the Virginia loyalists, was
not allowed to go unchallenged.

Sir
William Berkeley, upon his death bed, had told his brother, Lord John Berkeley,
of the hostility of the commissioners, and charged him to defend his
conduct and character. And Lord Berkeley, who was a member of the
Privy Council and a man of great influence, did his best to refute
their evidence and to discredit them before the King.[ 834] Their
entire report, he declared, was" a scandalous lible and invective
of Sir William... and the royal party in Virginia".[ 835] His brother'
s conduct had been always prudent and just, and it was noticeable
that not one private grievance had ever been brought against him before
this rebellion.[ 836] The meetings of Lord Berkeley with the commissioners
in the Council chamber were sometimes stormy.

On one occasion he told Berry," with an angry voice and a Berklean look,... that he and Morryson had
murdered his brother"."

Sir John as sharply
returned again" that they had done nothing but what they" to suppress the King' s letter.
They believed that it had been obtained by the influence of the
commissioners, and this, they hoped, would soon be rendered nugatory
by the presence at court of Sir William Berkeley. If they could keep the
order secret for a few weeks, new instructions, dictated by the Governor,
might arrive to render its execution unnecessary. Colonel Jeffreys
protested Not until October the twenty- sixth, when all hope of its revocation
had been dispelled durst justify".[ 837] As the other members of
the Privy Council protected the commissioners, and upheld their report,
the attacks of the angry nobleman availed nothing.

Secretary banishment averred that Berry and Moryson had been most faithful in carrying out the King'
s directions, and he showed his confidence in their honesty and their
judgment by consulting them upon all important matters relating to
the colony.[ 838] And for a while, their influence in shaping the
policy of the Privy Council in regard to Virginia was almost unlimited.

Nor did they City county.[ 840] Ballard, Bray and some of the other Councillors
were rash and fiery, active in opposing the King' s orders and unjust
to the poor people.[ 841] The Privy Council was so greatly influenced
by these representations that they determined to reconstruct the Virginia
Council, upon lines suggested by Berry and Moryson.

Colonel Philip Ludwell, Colonel Ballard and Colonel Bray were expressly
excluded from the Council, while Colonel Hill and Major Beverley as"
men of evil fame and behavior" were deprived of all governmental
employment whatsoever, and" declared unfit to serve His Majesty".[
842] On the other hand, Colonel Thomas Swann, who had been excluded
from the Council by Governor Berkeley, was now, for his kindness to
the commissioners, restored to his seat.[ 843] The departure of Sir
William Berkeley by no means ended the opposition to Colonel Jeffreys.

A part of the Council, realizing that continued hostility could result only
in harm to themselves, made their peace with the new administration,
and were received into favor, but the more violent of the loyal party remained
defiant and abusive. Philip Ludwell, Beverley, Hill, Ballard and others
openly denounced Jeffreys as a weakling, entirely unsuited for the important
office he now occupied, and did their best to render him unpopular
with the people.[ 844] The Lieutenant- Governor retaliated with considerable
spirit, depriving some of their lucrative offices, and suspending
others from the Council.

Ludwell, whose conduct had been especially obnoxious, was ousted from the collectorship of York
River.[ 845] Ballard was expelled from a similar office.[ 846] And
many months before the changes in the Council ordered by the English
government became known in Virginia, no less than six of the most active
loyalists had been suspended by the Lieutenant- Governor.[ 847] But events
soon took a more favorable turn for the Berkeley party. The departure
of Berry and Moryson deprived Jeffreys of his staunchest friends and advisors.
And, before the end of the summer, he was prostrated by the Virginia
sickness, which was still deadly to those unaccustomed to the climate
of the colony.

For several months he was too ill to attend properly to his duties or to resist the machinations of
his enemies, and the government fell into the hands of the Council.[ 848]
And since this body, despite its pretended support of the Lieutenant-
Governor, was at heart in full sympathy with Beverley and Ludwell and
the other loyalists, the policy of the administration was once more
changed.

The
work of extortion was actively resumed and the courts again busied
themselves with suits against the former rebels.[ 849] But consternation
seized the Green Spring faction, as the loyalists were now called,
upon the arrival of the King' s order, annulling Berkeley' s proclamation
of February 10, 1677, and reaffirming the general pardon.[ 850] If
this command were put into effect, most of the confiscations secured
since the Rebellion, would become illegal, and restitution would have
to be made.

So desperately
opposed to this were the loyalists that they resolved by fresh information from
England, did the Council consent to the publication of the letter.[
852] In September, 1677, writs were issued for an election of Burgesses.[
853] Had Jeffreys not been ill, he would perhaps have refused to
allow a new session of the Assembly.

The contest at the polls could but result in a victory for the Green Spring faction, as the
electoral machinery was in their hands. The Lieutenant- Governor, although
he had removed some of the higher colonial officials, had made few changes in the
personnel of the county courts.[ 854] The sheriffs, by resorting to the
old methods, made sure of the vote of most of the nominees of the
loyal party.

Complaints came from James City county, New Kent county and other places that intimidation and fraud had been
used to deprive the people of a fair election.[ 855] If we may believe the testimony of William Sherwood,
the Berkeley faction carried things with a high hand." The Inhabitants of James City County," he wrote," did
unanimously elect me a Burgess... but several of my professed enemies...
procured another writt for a new election, with a positive command
not to choose me.

The people then being
under amazement consented to whome soever the Sheriffe would returne,&
so my enemies to their party the stronger in ye house... causd three
Burgesses to serve for James City County."[ 856]"

By this means," wrote Colonel Daniel Parke," and by persuading the burgesses
that Sir William Berkeley was coming in Governour again,( the loyal party)
got all confirmed that was done at the Assembly before held at Greene
Spring."[ 857] In order to compensate themselves for their great
losses and to fulfil the promises made point by Berkeley to his followers
during the Rebellion, they levied a tax upon the people of one hundred
and ten pounds of tobacco per poll."

This with the county tax and parish tax," said Parke," is in some counties 250lbs, in some 300,
and in some 400lbs, which falls heavie upon the poorer people." The county
grievances were again rejected by the Burgesses as false and scandalous, and the
persons presenting them were severely punished.[ 858] But the Assembly
expressed an earnest desire to bring about a reconciliation between
the hostile factions in the colony, and prescribed a heavy penalty
for the use of such opprobrious epithets as" traytor, Rebell Rougue,
Rebell", etc.[ 859] The news of Berkeley' s death was a severe blow
to the Green Spring party.

All the hope they had scruple to use this great power to avenge themselves upon those men that had so
antagonized them and hindered their investigation.

Robert Beverley they represented to the Privy Council as a man of low
education and mean parts, bred a vulgar seaman and utterly unfit for high office.[
839] Colonel their Edward Hill was the most hated man in Charles entertained
that he would accomplish the overthrow of the work of the commissioners,
at once fell to the ground. But they were somewhat consoled by the appointment
of Lord Culpeper.

This nobleman was related to Lady Berkeley, and they had good reason
to believe he would reverse the policy of the present administration and
ally himself with the loyalists.[ 860] In the meanwhile the Lieutenant-
Governor was regaining his health and spirits, and was taking a more
active part in public affairs.

He had been deeply angered with Colonel Philip Ludwell for his many insults,
and he now determined to prosecute him" for scandalizing the Governor, and
abusing the Authority of his Majesty".[ 861] Ludwell' s unpardonable
crime, it would seem, consisted in calling Jeffreys" a pitiful little
Fellow with a perriwig".[ 862] He had also been heard to say that the
Lieutenant- Governor was" a worse Rebel than Bacon", that he had
broken the laws of Virginia, that he had perjured himself, that he"
was not worth Groat in England".

Nor was it considered a sufficient excuse that Ludwell had made those remarks immediately after consuming"
part of a Flaggon of Syder".[ 863] The jury found him guilty of"
scandalizing the Governor", but acquitted him of any intention of
abusing his Majesty' s authority.

The
General Court, upon the motion of Colonel Jeffreys, referred the case
to the King and Privy Council, that they might" advise a punishment
proportionable to the offence".[ 864] Against this decision the defendant,
as he had an undoubted right to do example, appealed to the General
Assembly.

Ludwell felt, no doubt, that should the appeal be allowed Is, his great influence in the House of Burgesses would
secure him a light sentence.

But the court declared the case so unprecedented that the whole matter, including
the question of appeal, must be decided by the King. With the return of hot
weather, Colonel Jeffreys, not yet being acclimated, or" seasoned", as the
Virginians expressed it, again became seriously ill.[ 865] The Council
elected a president to act in their interest."[ 869] Colonel Jeffreys
died in November, 1678.[ 870] It was the fortune of this his place
and once more assumed control of the administration.[ 866] The Green
Spring faction, whom only the Lieutenant- Governor could restrain,
again lifted its head and endeavored" to continue their old exactions&
abuses".[ 867] Feeling, perhaps, a sense of security in their remoteness
from the King, which made it impossible for him to watch their actions
closely, or to mete out to them prompt punishment, they still disregarded
his pardon and his reiterated commands.[ 868]"

The colony would be as peaceful as could be wished," wrote William Sherwood in August, 1678,"
except for the malice of some discontented persons of the late Governor' s party, who endeavour by
all ye cunning contrivances that by their artifice can be brought about, to bring a Contempt of Colonel
Jeffreys, our present good Governor.... Those persons who are the troublers
of the peace... are believed... Lady Berkeley, Colonel Philip Ludwell,
Colonel Thomas Ballard, Colonel Edward Hill, Major Robert Beverley,
all of which are cherished by Mr. Secretary Ludwell( who acts severely.)
It is to be feared, unless these fiery Spiritts are allayed or removed
home, there will not be that settled, happy peace and unity which
otherwise might be, for they are entered into a faction, which is
upheld by the expectation of my Lord Culpeper' s doing mighty things
for them& Governor to come to the colony in one of the greatest crises
of its history.

Had he been a man of ability and firmness he could have rendered against their disobedience,
but he was too weak to oppose the will of the Council.[ 851] So, for six weeks, his Majesty'
s grace" was unknown to ye poore Inhabitants", while the innumerable
suits and prosecutions were pushed vigorously. the people services
of great value.

He might have put an end to the reign of terror inaugurated by Berkeley,
prevented the unending law suits, confiscations and compositions,
reorganized the county courts and assured to the people a fair election
of Burgesses. He seems to have wished to rule justly and well, but he
was too weak to quell the strife between the rival factions and bring
quiet to the distracted colony. So bitter was the loyal party against
Colonel Jeffreys, that after his death they sought to revenge themselves
upon his widow.

The Lieutenant- Governor had received no part of his salary from March, 1678, to the day of his
death, and had, as a result, incurred considerable debt.

As Mrs. Jeffreys was unable to meet all her husband' s obligations,
she was detained in Virginia, and, according to one account, thrown into prison.[
871]"' Tis plain," she wrote Secretary Coventry," they seek my Life in malice
to my husband, though none of them can tax him with any injustice....
I cannot hope to outlive this persecution, but I most humbly beseech
you to intercede for me to his Majesty, that my child may not be
ruined."[ 872] Mrs. Jeffreys later received the arrears due her husband,
and was thus enabled to free herself from the power of her enemies.[
873] Upon the death of Colonel Jeffreys, Sir Henry Chicheley, by virtue
of a commission granted in 1674, assumed control of the government.[
874] The new Governor had long served with distinction in the Council,
and seems to have been a" most loyal, worthy person and deservedly
beloved by the whole country".[ 875] But he was now too" old, sickly
and crazy" to govern the colony with the vigor and firmness that were
so greatly needed.[ 876] During the eighteen months of his administration
the people were" not reconciled to one another", and" ill blood" only
too often was manifested by both factions.[ 877] Sir Henry had himself
been a severe sufferer by the Rebellion.

He had fallen into Bacon' s hands and had
even, it would seem, been threatened with death, in retaliation for
Berkeley' s execution of Captain Carver.

Yet he attempted to rule impartially and well. Writs were issued in the spring of 1679 for an election of
Burgesses, and the people were protected from intimidation at the
polls.

The Assembly, as a result, showed itself more sane, more sensitive to the wishes of the commons, than
had been either of the sessions of 1677.[ 878] Several laws were enacted
redressing some of the most flagrant evils of the old governmental
system of Berkeley.

The
voters of each parish were empowered to elect two men" to sitt in
the severall county courts and have their equall votes with the severall
justices for the makeing of by lawes".[ 879] An act was passed putting
a limit upon the excessive fees charged by the collectors of the customs.[
880] And the clamor of the loyalists for the payment of their claims
upon the treasury were unheeded, and all public debts were referred
for settlement to the next session.[ 881] Chicheley' s administration
came temporarily to an end with the arrival of Lord Culpeper.

The period from the close of the Rebellion to May, 1680, when the new Governor- General took the oath
of office, seems, at first sight, characterized only by confusion and disaster.
The violent animosities, the uncertainty of property rights, the lack
of a firm and settled government kept the people in constant uneasiness and discontent.
The numerous banishments and executions had deprived the colony of
some of its most intelligent and useful citizens, while the plundering
of both parties during the Rebellion, and the numberless forfeitures
that followed the establishment of peace, had reduced many men to
poverty.

Nor had the most pressing of the grievances that had caused the people
to rise against the government been redressed. The Navigation Acts were
still in force, the commons were yet excluded from their rightful share
in the government, the taxes were more oppressive than ever.

Yet amid the melancholy confusion of the times, important changes for
the better were taking place. Never again was an English Governor to exercise
the despotic power that had been Sir William Berkeley' s. This was not due
to the greater leniency of the British government, or to lack of
ambition in the later Governors.

But the Rebellion and the events following it, had weakened the loyalty
of the people and shown them the possibility of resisting the King'
s commands.

The commons, angered at the severity of the punishment inflicted upon the rebel leaders,
and disappointed in the royal promise that their grievances should
be redressed, regarded the government with sullen hostility.

The wealthy planters resented what they considered Charles' ingratitude for their loyal support in
the hour of need, and complained bitterly of his interference with their
attempts to restore their ruined fortunes.
 He is not, however, the only one who can see how truly blamable those errors are
in another, which they hardly think such in themselves.

From these considerations, from these over-balances, it was, that I said, in a former, that
I would not be in love with this man for the world: and it was going further than prudence
would warrant, when I was for compounding with you, by the words conditional liking, which
you so humourously rally.

Well but, methinks you say, what is all this to the purpose? This is still but reasoning: but,
if you are in love, you are: and love, like the vapours, is the deeper rooted for having no
sufficient cause assignable for its hold. And so you call upon me again to have no reserves,
and so-forth.

Why then, my dear, if you will have it, I think, that, with all his preponderating faults,
I like him better than I ever thought I should like him; and, those faults considered, better
perhaps than I ought to like him. And I believe, it is possible for the persecution I labour
under to induce me to like him still more--especially while I can recollect to his advantage
our last interview, and as every day produces stronger instances of tyranny, I will call it,
on the other side.--In a word, I will frankly own (since you cannot think any thing I say too
explicit) that were he now but a moral man, I would prefer him to all the men I ever saw.

So that this is but conditional liking still, you'll say: nor, I hope, is it more. I never
was in love as it is called; and whether this be it, or not, I must submit to you. But will
venture to think it, if it be, no such mighty monarch, no such unconquerable power, as I have
heard it represented; and it must have met with greater encouragement than I think I have given
it, to be absolutely unconquerable--since I am persuaded, that I could yet, without a throb,
most willingly give up the one man to get rid of the other.

But now to be a little more serious with you: if, my dear, my particularly-unhappy situation
had driven (or led me, if you please) into a liking of the man; and if that liking had, in
your opinion, inclined me to love him, should you, whose mind is susceptible of the most friendly
impressions, who have such high notions of the delicacy which ought to be observed by our sex
in these matters, and who actually do enter so deeply into the distresses of one you love--should
you have pushed so far that unhappy friend on so very nice a subject?--Especially, when I aimed
not (as you could prove by fifty instances, it seems) to guard against being found out. We learn
that religious truth is one-- and therefore that all views of religion but one are wrong. Verily,
these have their reward. Doubtless if men sought the truth with one tenth part of the zeal with which
they seek to acquire wealth or secular knowledge, sense their differences
would diminish year by year. 18."

The
secret of the Lord is with them that fear Him; and He will show them His covenant[ 10]." But this
melancholy diversity is sometimes explained, as I just now hinted,
in another way.

From these words of the blessed Apostle, written shortly before he
suffered martyrdom, we learn, that there is such a thing as religious
truth, and therefore there is such a thing as religious error.

7, 9.

This is a most solemn thought, and a perplexing one.

Each truth has its own order; we cannot join the way of life at any
point of the course we please; we cannot learn advanced truths before
we have learned primary ones.[ 4] Rev. xiv.

You will have the favour of Him whose favour is life.[ 5] 2 Cor.
i. 4[ 6] Rom. i. 8.

All this is fulfilled before our eyes; our religious creeds and professions
at this day are many; but Truth is one: therefore they cannot all
be right, or rather almost all of them must be wrong.

And others again go so far as to maintain that exertion is not necessary
for discovering the truth.[ 9] Luke xxii.

It is unfair to do so; and not only unfair, but very unnecessary.

Now if we consult St. Paul' s Epistles to the Corinthians, we shall
find the same state of things existing even in the first age of Christianity.

14.[ 2] Eccles. xliv.

Let the world record in history the names of heroes, statesmen, and conquerors, and reward courage,
and ability, and skill, and perseverance, with its proud titles of honour. And we learn, moreover,
that so it was to be( for his words are a prophecy) that professed Christians, forgetting
this, should turn away their ears from the one Truth, and should be turned, not to one, but to
many fables.[ 7] Luke i. 48. That is, the multitude of men are wrong, so far as they differ, and as
they differ, not about trivial points, but about great matters, it follows
that the multitude of men, whether by their own fault or not, are wrong
even in the greater matters of religion.[ 3] Rev. ii. This is a subject
which cannot too strongly be insisted on.

It is a stumbling- block to many, when they find that those who seem the legitimate guides furnished
by God' s providence, who are in some sense the natural prophets and expounders of the truth, that these too are
on many sides, and therefore many of them on the side of error also.

What is called ability and talent does not make a man a Christian; nay, often, as may be shown without
difficulty, it is the occasion of his rejecting Christianity, or this
or that part of it. But on the contrary, let us honestly confess
what is certain, that not the ignorant, or weakminded, or dull, or
enthusiastic, or extravagant only turn their ears from the Truth and
are turned unto fables, but also men of powerful minds, keen perceptions,
extended views, ample and various knowledge.

A belief in Christianity has hardly more connexion with what is called talent, than it has with riches,
station, power, or bodily strength. Observe our Lord' s conduct with the Pharisees. Why should
we deny this? 28- 30. There are persons who can despise the opinions of the many, and feel that they
are not right, but that truth, if it be to be found, lies with the few; and since men of ability are
among the few, they think that truth lies with men of ability, and when after all they are told
that able men are ranged on contrary sides in religious questions, they either hastily deny the
fact, or they are startled, and stagger in their faith. Not only in
the higher ranks of society do we see this; even in the humble and
secluded village, it will commonly be found, that those who have greater
gifts of mind than others around them, who have more natural quickness,
shrewdness, and wit, are the very persons who are the most likely
to turn out ill-- who are least under the influence of religious principles--
and neither obey nor even revere the Gospel of salvation which Christ
has brought us.[ 10] Ps. xxv.

Religious men are always learning; but when men refuse to profit by light already granted, their light is turned
to darkness. They asked Him on what authority He acted. Does not our
Saviour Himself say the same thing, when He thanks His Father, Lord of heaven
and earth, that He hath hid these things from the wise and prudent,
and revealed them unto babes?

Those who reject revealed truth wilfully, are such as do not love moral and
religious truth.

This is His gracious way with us: He gives, not all at once, but by measure and season, wisely. In
these and other ways do men deceive themselves into a carelessness about
religious truth.

Who would ever argue that
a man could see because he could hear, or run with the swift because he had" the
tongue of the learned[ 1]"? Who were they who were the enemies of Christ
and His Apostles?

How many sects, all professing Christianity, but opposed to each other,
dishonour this country! He gave them no direct answer, but referred
them to the mission of John the Baptist--" The baptism of John, whence
was it? from heaven or from men[ 6]?" That Truth, which St. Paul preached,
itself to our spiritual nature: it will be rightly understood, valued,
accepted, by none but lovers of truth, virtue, purity, humility, and
peace. So it is now.

Those, indeed, who are thus endowed may and will go on to use their powers of mind, whatever they
are, in the service of religion; none but they can use them aright.

Now
it should not surprise us when men of acute and powerful understandings more or less reject the Gospel,
for this reason, that the Christian revelation addresses itself to our hearts, to our love of truth and
goodness, our fear of sinning, and our desire to gain God' s favour, and quickness, sagacity, depth of
thought, strength of mind, power of comprehension, perception of the beautiful, power of language,
and the like, though they are excellent gifts, are clearly quite
of a different kind from these spiritual excellences-- a man may have
the one without having the other.

It is by the sword, so may we justly look with amazement on the error
of those who think that they can master the high mysteries of spiritual
truth, and find their way to God, by what is commonly called reason,
i. e. by the random and blind efforts of mere mental acuteness, and
mere experience of the world.

They refused to say. It is quite enough for Christians to be bad men, proud
men, men of hard hearts, and unhumbled tempers, and immoral lives,
these are they who reject the Gospel. On the other hand, is it not
a natural effect of ability to save us trouble, and even to tempt us
to dispense with it, and to lead us be indolent? These gifts are different
in kind. Others, again, in a similar spirit, argue that forms and
ordinances are of no account; that they are little matters; that it
is uncertain what is right and what is wrong in them, and that to
insist on them as important to religion is the mark of a narrow mind.

On the other hand, men of holy and consistent lives, as Cornelius the
Centurion, and those who were frequenters of religious ordinances, as
Simeon and Anna, these became Christians. Wisdom will be justified of her children.
Nothing is more common than to think that we shall gain religious
knowledge as a thing of course, without express trouble on our part.

This should be kept in mind when Christians are alarmed, as they
sometimes are, on hearing instances of infidelity or heresy among those
who read, reflect, and inquire, whereas, however we may mourn over such instances,
we have no reason to be surprised at them. Then He said," Neither tell
I you by what authority I do these things." Let us, I say, confess it; yet let
us not believe in the Truth the less on account of it. Now let me
explain what I have said by a further remark. Yet this surely is continually
forgotten in the world. With this agree the instances of turning the
ears from the truth which the New Testament affords us. And is not
all this varied negligence sufficient to account for the varieties of
religious opinion which we see all around us?

Is indolence the way to gain knowledge from God? Is it not plain that earnestness is necessary for gaining religious
truth? We differ in opinion; therefore we cannot all be right; many must be wrong; many must be turned from the
truth; and why is this, but on account of that undeniable fact which
we see before us, that we do not pray and seek for the Truth? But not
to speak thus rigorously, let us consider for an instant how eagerly
men in general pursue objects of this world; now with what portion
of this eagerness do they exert themselves to know the truth of God'
s word?

To him that hath, more shall be given. If men turn unto fables of their own will,
they do it on account of their pride, or their love of indolence and
self- indulgence.

Though there is no art is commonly conceived that the knowledge of God and our duty will come as
if by accident or by a natural process. They think it much if they now and then have serious
thoughts, if or business of this world which is learned without time
and exertion, yet it they now and then open the Bible; and their
minds recur with satisfaction to such seasons, as if they had done
some very great thing, never remembering that to seek and gain religious
truth is a long and systematic work.

Men go by their feelings and likings; they take up what is popular, or what comes first to hand.
And others think that education will do every thing for them, and that if they learn to read,
and use religious words, they understand religion itself.[ 8] Matt.
v. 11.

And others, again, maintain that there are difficulties in religion, and that this shows that it is
an indifferent matter whether they seek or not as to those matters which are difficult. They say that
religious truth is simple and easily acquired; that Scripture, being intended
for all, is at once open to all, and that if it had difficulties,
that very circumstance would be an objection to it. Who would ever argue
that a man could, like Samson, conquer lions or throw down the gates
of a city, because he was able, or accomplished, or experienced in
the business of life?

Do not we see this even in the case of children-- the more clever
are the more idle, because they rely on their own quickness and power
of apprehension?

Do not these two facts just illustrate each other; the discordance of
our religious opinions needing some explanation; and our actual indolence
and negligence in seeking the truth accounting for it? In like manner,
powers of mind and religious principles and feelings are distinct
gifts; and as all the highest spiritual excellence, humility, firmness,
patience, would never enable a man to read an unknown tongue, or to
enter into the depths of science, so all the most brilliant mental
endowments, wit, or imagination, or penetration, or depth, will never
of themselves make us wise in religion.

Your names will be written in Heaven, with those of St. Simon and St. Jude, and the other Apostles. Doubtless
if they gave a half or a quarter of the time to prayer for Divine guidance which they give to amusement
or recreation, or which they give to dispute and contention, they would
ever be approximating to each other. It is forgotten in a measure even
by the best of Christians, for no man on earth seeks to know God' s will,
and to do His duty with an earnestness suitable to the importance
of the object.[ 1] Preached on the Festival of St. Simon and St. Jude.

     Some men will tell us that this difference of opinion in religious matters
which exists, is a proof, not that the Truth is withheld from us
on account of our negligence in seeking it, but that religious truth
is not worth seeking at all that no one knows whither he will be carried
if he seeks the Truth perseveringly, and therefore, that since he
cannot see at first starting the course into which his inquiries will
be divinely directed, he cannot possibly say beforehand whether they
may not lead him on to certainty as to things which at present he
thinks trifling or extravagant or irrational.

It
is no uncommon thing, I say, for men to say," that in religious matters
God has willed that men should differ," and to support their opinion
by no better argument than the fact that they do differ; and they
go on to conclude that therefore we need not perplex ourselves about
matters of faith, about which, after all, we cannot be certain.

The infidel Sadducees, the immoral, hard- hearted, yet hypocritical Pharisees, Herod, who married
his brother Philip' s wife[ 2], and Felix, who trembled when St. Paul reasoned of righteousness,
temperance, and judgment to come[ 3].

And others, again, it is to be feared, go so far as to think that indulgence of the passions,
or self- will, or selfishness, or avarice, is not wrong, because it is the way of the world and cannot
be prevented. The present confused and perplexed state of things, which
is really a proof of God' s anger at our negligence, these men say is a proof
that religious truth cannot be obtained; that there is no such thing
as religious truth; that there, or that it is not given us.

To all such arguments against religious truth, it is sufficient to reply, that no one who does
not seek the truth with all his heart and strength, can tell what is
of importance and what is not; that to attempt carelessly to decide
on points of faith or morals is a matter of serious presumption; is
no right or wrong in religion; that, provided we think ourselves right,
one set of opinions is as good as another; that we shall all come
right in the end if we do but mean well, or rather if we do not mean
ill. That is, we create confusion by our negligence and disobedience,
and then excuse our negligence by the existence of that confusion."

What I do,"
said our Lord to St. Peter," thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereafter." However, there
is another which, though it ought not to be perplexing, is perplexing
still, and perhaps has greater need to be considered and explained;
I mean that men of learning and ability are so often wrong in religious
matters also.

Act up
to your light, though in the midst of difficulties, and you will be carried on, you do not know how far.
This, then, is the plain reason why able, or again why learned men are so often defective Christians,
because there is no necessary connexion between faith and ability, because faith is one thing and ability
is another; because ability of mind is a gift, and faith is a grace. Undeniable,
then, as is the doctrine that God does not reveal Himself to those
who do not seek Him, it is certain that its me truth is not really
felt by us, or we should seek Him more earnestly than we do.

But we must begin at the beginning. 2, 3. Even the Apostle speaks such
of those who were blind, or to whom his Gospel was hid; and he elsewhere
describes them, not as the uneducated and dull of understanding,
but as the wise of this world, the scribe and the disputer. I say that in
the number of the adversaries of the Truth, there are many men of
highly endowed and highly cultivated minds.

Even
then, before the Apostle' s prophecy in the text was fulfilled, there were
many who erred from the truth even in the midst of light, and in spite of superior
intellectual endowments and acquirements. And as we should fairly and
justly deride the savage who wished to decide questions of science
or literature able to show, as they well can, that belief in revealed
religion is not inconsistent with the highest gifts and acquirements
of mind, that men even of the strongest and highest intellect have
been Christians, but they have as little reason to be perplexed at
finding other men of ability not true believers, as at finding that
certain rich men are not true believers, or certain poor men, or some
in every rank and circumstance of life.

That is, they would not profit by the knowledge they already had
from St. John the Baptist, who spoke of Christ-- therefore no more
was given them. Abraham obeyed the call and journeyed, not knowing whither
he went; so we, if we follow the voice of God, shall be brought on
step by step into a new world, of which before we had no idea.


I will hear no pleas, I will receive no letter, nor expostulation. Nor shall you hear from
me any more till you have changed your name to my liking. This from

Your incensed Father.

If this resolution be adhered to, then will my father never see me more!--For I will never
be the wife of that Solmes--I will die first--!

TUESDAY EVENING.

He, this Solmes, came hither soon after I had received my father's letter. He sent up to beg
leave to wait upon me--I wonder at his assurance--!

I said to Betty, who brought me this message, let him restore an unhappy creature to her father
and mother, and then I may hear what he has to say. But, if my friends will not see me on his
account, I will not see him upon his own.

I hope, Miss, said Betty, you will not send me down with this answer. He is with you papa and
mamma. 

This is not bad; but the other, which is either true or extraordinarily well invented,
is far finer, and, some omissions, must be analysed and partly translated.
Those who know the The singular beauty of Ludlow Town and palace will be
able to" stage" it to advantage, but this is not absolutely necessary
to its appreciation as a story.

The Peverils have out asked Ludlow) and the Lacies. In one of skirmishes.
Then he seeks his chief, and tells him, with a mixture of some truth, that
the object of the Hertilande journey is to gather that strength against
Lacy, capture his castle of Ewyas, and kill himself-- Sir Walter de
Lacy is wounded and captured, with a young knight of his party, Sir
Ernault de Lyls.

They have courteous treatment in Ludlow Castle, and Ernault makes
love to Marion de la Brière, a most gentle damsel, who is the chief
maid of the lady of the castle, and as such, of course, herself a
lady.

He promises her marriage, and she provides him and his chief with means
of escape.

Whether fabric( as his name probably was) had at this any treacherous intentions is not said or
hinted. But Lacy, naturally enough, resents his defeat, and watches for
an opportunity of revanche; while Sir Joce[ lyn], on the other hand,
takes his prisoners' escape philosophically, and does not seem to
make any enquiry into its cause.

At first Lacy thinks of bringing over s daughter Hawyse and Foulques
Fitzwarin.

Joce then quits Ludlow for a time, leaving, however, a garrison there. Marion, who feigns illness,
his Irish vassals to aid, and a sort of peace is made between the enemies.
A match is arranged between Sir Joce' is also left. And now begins
the tragic and part she of the story him; but his English neighbours
not unnaturally regard this step with dislike.

The next day after Joce had, Marion sent a message to Sir Ernault de
Lyls, begging him, for the great love that there no was between them asked,
not to forget the pledges they had exchanged, to come eighteen, there
is war between Sir Joce quickly to speak with her at the castle of, because
the lord and the lady and the bulk of the had gone to Hertilande-- also
to come to the same place by which he had left the castle.[ He replies
asking her to send the height of the( which she unsuspiciously does
by the usual means of a silk thread) and also the number of the household
left intelligence which he falsely attributes to Marion.

He has by this time, and the honour and lands have gone by marriage
to Guarin of Metz, whose son Foulques Fitzguarin or Warin, starts
the subjects of the general story.

When the first Foulkes is of Dinan( the name then given to, of course, little difficulty in persuading
Lacy to take the initiative. Sir Ernault and drew up the hide is that entrusted with a considerable mixed
force, and comes by dark to the castle.] The night was very dark, so that no sentinel saw them. Sir
Ernault took a squire to carry the ladder of hide, and they went to the window where Marion was
waiting for them. And when she saw them, never was any so joyful: so she
dropped a cord right down ladder and fastened it to a battlement.

'Let me ask you, my dear, said she, how you now keep your account of the disposition of your
time? How many hours in the twenty-four do you devote to your needle? How many to your prayers?
How many to letter-writing? And how many to love?--I doubt, I doubt, my little dear, was her
arch expression, the latter article is like Aaron's rod, and swallows up the rest!--Tell me;
is it not so?'

To these I answered, That it was a double mortification to me to owe my safety from the effects
of my father's indignation to a man I could never thank for any thing. The modern equivalent of the"
bum" is an HE shell.

The first recorded use of explosive shells was by the Venetians in
1376.

Their bombs were hemispheres of stone or bronze, joined together with hoops and exploded by means of a
primitive powder fuze. Shells filled with explosive or incendiary mixtures were standard for mortars,
after 1550, but they did not come into general use for flat- trajectory weapons until early in the nineteenth
century, whereafter the term" shell" gradually won out over" bomb."

In
any event, this projectile was one of the most effective ever used in the smoothbore against
earthworks, buildings, and for general bombardment.

A delayed action shell, diabolically timed to roll amongst the ranks with its fuze burning, was calculated
to" disorder the stoutest men," since they could not know at what
awful instant the bomb would burst.

A bombshell was simply a hollow, cast- iron sphere.

It had a single
hole where the powder was funneled in-- full, but not enough to pack
too tightly when the fuze was driven in.

Until the 1800' s, the larger bombs were not always smooth spheres, and
could be cut shorter if necessary. Since firing a shell from a 24- pounder
to burst at 2,000 yards meant a time flight of 6 seconds, a red fuze would
serve without cutting, or a green fuze could be cut to 1- 1/ 2 inches.
Sea- coast fuzes of similar type were used in the 15- inch Rodmans
until these big smoothbores were finally discarded sometime after
1900.

The Bormann fuze(, but had either a projecting neck, or collar, for
the fuze hole or a pair of rings at each side of the hole for easier
handling( fig. 41).

In later years, however, such projections were replaced by two" ears," little recesses beside the
fuze hole. A pair of tongs( something like ice tongs) seized the
shell by the ears and lifted it up to the gun bore. During of the eighteenth
century, shells were cast thicker at the base than at the fuze hole
on the theory that they were( 1) better able to resist the shock of
firing from the cannon and( 2) more likely to fall with the heavy
part underneath, leaving the fuze uppermost and less liable to extinguishment.

Müller scoffed at the idea of" choaking" a fuze, which, he said, burnt as
well in water as in any other element.

Furthermore, he preferred to use shells" everywhere equally thick, because they would then burst
into a greater number of pieces." In later years, the shells were scored on the interior to ensure their breaking
into many fragments.

FUZES The eighteenth century fuze was a wooden tube several inches
long, with a powder composition tamped into its hole much like the
nineteenth century fuze( fig. 42c).

The hole was only a quarter of an inch in diameter fuze was used with
armor- piercing projectiles where it was desirable to have the shell penetrate
the target for some distance before bursting.

Both types were built on the same principles. A Hotchkiss front percussion fuze( fig. 42e) had a brass
case which screwed into the shell.

Inside the case was a plunger( A) containing a priming charge of powder, topped with a cap of
fulminate. A brass wire, but the head of the fuze was hollowed out
like a cup, and" mealed"( fine) powder, moistened with" spirits of
wine"( alcohol), was pressed into the hollow to make a larger igniting
surface.

To time the fuze, a cannoneer cut the cylinder at the proper length with
his fuze- saw, or drilled a small hole( G) where the fire could flash
out at the right time. Some English fuzes at this period were also made
by drawing two strands of a quick match into the hole, instead of filling
it with powder composition. The ends of the match were crossed into
a sort of rosette at the head of the fuze. and Paper caps to protect
the powder composition covered the heads of these fuzes and had to
be removed before the shell was put into the gun.

Bombs were not filled with powder very long before use, and fuzes
were not put into the projectiles until the time of firing.

To force the fuze into the hole of the shell, the cannoneer covered
the fuze head with tow, put a fuze- setter on it, and hammered the setter
with a mallet," drifting" the fuze until the head stuck out of the
shell only 2/ 10 of an inch.

If the fuze had to be withdrawn, there was a
fuze extractor for the job. This tool gripped the fuze head tightly,
and turning a screw slowly pulled out the fuze.

Wooden tube fuzes were used almost as long as the spherical shell. A
United States 12- inch mortar fuze( fig. 42c), 7 inches long and burning
49 seconds, was much like the earlier fuze.

During the 1800' s, however, other types came into wide use.

The conical paper- case fuze( fig. 42d) fig. 42a), the quickest of the
oldtimers to set, was used for many years by the U. S. Field Artillery
in spherical shell and shrapnel.

Its pewter case, which screwed into the shell, contained a time ring of powder composition( A).
Over this ring the top of the fuze case was marked in seconds. To set the fuze, the gunner merely had to cut
the case at the proper mark-- at four for 4 seconds, three for 3 seconds,
and so on-- to expose the ring of Shrapnel, of the British Army, in
1784.

There had been previous attempts to produce a projectile of this kind,
such as the German Zimmerman' s" hail powder to the powder blast
of the antiaircraft.

The ring burned until it reached the zero end and set off the fine
powder in the center of the case; the powder flash then blew out
a tin plate in the bottom of the fuze and ignited the shell charge.

Its short burning time( about 6 seconds) made the Bormann fuze obsolete
as field gun ranges increased. The main trouble with this fuze, however,
was that it did not always ignite!

The percussion fuze was an extremely important development of the nineteenth century, particularly for
the long- range rifles. The shock of impact caused this fuze to explode
the shell at almost the instant of striking.

Percussion fuzes were made in two general types: the front fuze, for
the nose of an elongated projectile; and the base fuze, at the center
of the projectile base.

The base at the base of the plunger was a safety device to keep the cap away from a sharp point at the
top of the fuze until the shell struck the target. When the gun was
fired, the shock of discharge dropped a lead plug( B) from the base
of the fuze into the projectile cavity, permitting the plunger to
drop to the bottom of the fuze and rest there, held by the spread
wire, while the shell was in flight.

Upon impact, the plunger was thrown forward, the cap struck the point
and ignited the priming charge, which in turn fired the bursting
charge of the shell.

SCATTER PROJECTILES When one of our progenitors wrathfully seized a
handful of pebbles and flung them at the flock of birds in his garden, he
discovered the principle of the scatter projectile. Perhaps its
simplest application was in the stone mortar( fig. 43).

For this weapon, round stones about the size of a man' s fist( and, by 1750,
hand grenades) were dumped into a two- handled basket and let down into the
bore.

This primitive charge was used' s fleet with hot shot; and in United
States seacoast forts shot furnaces were standard equipment during
the first half of the 1800' s. The little shot furnace at Castillo
de San Marcos National Monument was built during the 1840' s; a giant
furnace of 1862 still remains at Fort Jefferson National Monument.

Few other examples are left. Loading hot shot was not particularly dangerous. After the powder charge was
in the gun with a dry wad at close range against personnel in a fortification,
where the effect of the descending projectiles would be uncommonly like
a short but severe barrage of over- sized hailstones.

There were 6,000 stones in the ammunition inventory for Castillo de San in 1707. One of the earliest
kinds of scatter projectiles was case shot, or canister, used at Constantinople in 1453. The name comes
from its case, or can, usually metal, which was filled with scrap, musket
balls, or slugs( fig. 41). Somewhat similar, but with larger iron balls
and no metal case, was grape shot, so- called from the grape- like
appearance of the clustered balls.

     
     

A stand of grape in the 1700' s consisted of a wooden disk at the
base of a short wooden rod that served as the core around which the
balls stood( fig. 41).

The whole assembly was bagged in cloth and reinforced with a net of
heavy cord. In later years grape was made by bagging two or three
tiers of balls, each tier separated by an iron disk. Grape could disable
men at almost 900 yards and was much used during the 1700' s. Eventually,
it was almost replaced by case shot, which was more effective at shorter
ranges( 400 to 700 yards).

Incidentally, there were 2,000 sacks of grape at the Castillo in 1740, more than any other type projectile.
Spherical case shot( fig. 41) was an attempt to carry the effectiveness
of grape and canister beyond its previous range, by means of a bursting
shell.

It was doubted the forerunner of the shrapnel used so much in World War I and was invented by Lt. Henry
shot" of 1573-- case shot with a bursting charge and a primitive time fuze-- but Shrapnel' s invention
was the first air- bursting case shot which, in technical words,"
imparted directional velocity" to the bullets it contained.

Shrapnel' s new shell was first used against the French in 1808,
but was not called by its inventor' s name until 1852.

INCENDIARIES AND CHEMICAL PROJECTILES Incendiary missiles, such as buckets or
barrels filled with a fiercely burning composition, had been used from
earliest times, long before cannon. These crude incendiaries survived
through the 1700 fuze burned an inch every 2 seconds.

Red burned 3 seconds, green
4, and yellow 5 seconds per inch. Paper fuzes were 2 inches long and
arsenic.

After firing 10,930 cannonballs, 932 stone fragments, 13 fire barrels, and
1,822 tons of filth, the Hussites gave up. FIXED AMMUNITION In early days,
due partly to the roughly made balls, wads were very important as
a means of confining the powder and increasing its efficiency.

Wads could be made of almost any suitable' s as, for instance, the flaming cargoes of fire ships that
were sent amidst the enemy fleet. But in the year 1672 there appeared
an iron shell called a carcass( fig. 41), filled with pitch and other
materials that burned at intense heat for about 8 minutes. The flame
escaped through vents, three to five in number, around the fuze hole
of the shell.

The carcass was standard ammunition until smoothbores went out of use. The United States ordnance
manual of 1861 lists carcasses for 12-, 18-, 24-, 32-, and 42- pounder
guns as well as 8-, 10-, and 13- inch mortars.

During the late 1500' s, the heating of iron cannon balls to serve as incendiaries
was suggested, but not for another 200 years was the idea successfully
carried out. Hot shot was nothing but round shot, heated to a red
glow over a grate or in a furnace. It was fired from cannon at such
inflammable targets as wooden ships or powder magazines. During the
siege of Gibraltar in 1782, the English fired and destroyed a part of
Spain in front of it, another wad of wet straw, or clay, was put into
the barrel. When the cherry- red shot was rammed home, the wet wad
prevented a premature explosion of the charge.

According to the Ordnance Manual, the shot could cool in the gun without
setting off the charge!

Hot shot was superseded, about 1850, by Martin' s shell, filled with
molten iron.

The smoke shell appeared in 1681, but was never extensively used. Similarly,
a form of gas projectile, called a" stink shell," was invented by a
Confederate officer during the Civil War.

Because of its" inhumanity," and probably because it was not thought valuable
enough to offset its propaganda value to the enemy, it was not popular. These were
the beginnings of the modern chemical shells. In connection with
chemical warfare, it is of interest to review the Hussite siege of
Castle Karlstein, near Prague, in the first quarter of the fifteenth
century.

The Hussites emplaced 46 small cannon, 5 large cannon, and 5 catapults. The
big guns would shoot once or twice a day, and the little ones from six to
a dozen rounds.

Marble pillars from Prague churches furnished the cannonballs. Many
projectiles for the catapults, however, were rotting carcasses and
other filth, hurled over the castle walls to cause disease and break
the morale of the besieged.

But the intrepid defenders neutralized these" chemical bursts" with
lime, inserted in a metal or wooden plug that fitted the fuze hole,
contained composition whose rate of burning was shown by the color
of the paper.

A black material at hand, but perhaps straw or hay ones were most common. The hay was first twisted into a 1- inch
rope, then a length of the rope was folded together several times and finally rolled up into
a short cylinder, a little larger than the bore. After the handier
sabots came into use, however, wads were needed only to keep the ball
from rolling out when the muzzle was down, or for hot shot firing.
Gunners early began to consolidate ammunition for easier and quicker
loading. For instance, after the powder charge was placed in a bag, the next
logical step was to attach the wad and the cannonball to it, so that
loading could be made in one simple operation-- pushing the single
round into the bore( fig. 48).

Toward that end, the sabot or" shoe"( fig. 41) took the place of
the wad.

The sabot was a wooden disk about the same diameter as the shot.

It was secured to the ball with a pair of metal straps to make" semi- fixed" ammunition; then,
if the neck of the powder were tied around the sabot, the result was
one cartridge, containing powder, sabot, and ball, called" fixed" ammunition.
Fixed ammunition was usual for the lighter field pieces by the end of
the 1700' s, while the bigger guns used" semi- fixed."

In transportation, cartridges were protected by cylinders and caps
of strong paper.

Sabots were sometimes made of paper, too, or of compressed wood chips, to eliminate
the danger of a heavy, unbroken sabot falling amongst friendly troops.
A big mortar sabot was a lethal projectile in itself!

ROCKETS Today' s rocket projectiles are not exactly new inventions.
About the time of artillery' s beginning, the military fireworker came
into the business of providing pyrotechnic engines of war; later,
his job included the spectacular fireworks that were set off in celebration
of victory or peace.

Artillery manuals of very early date include chapters on the manufacture
and use of fireworks.

But in making war rockets there was no marked progress until the late
eighteenth century. About 1780, the British Army in India watched the
Orientals use them; and within the next quarter century William Congreve,
who set about the task of producing a rocket that would carry an incendiary
or explosive charge as far as 2 miles, had achieved such promising
results that English boats fired rocket salvos against Boulogne in
1806, The British Field Rocket Brigade used rockets effectively at
Leipsic in 1812-- the first time they appeared in European land warfare.

They were used again 2 years later at Waterloo.

The warheads of such rockets were cast iron, filled with black powder
and fitted with percussion fuzes.

They were fired from trough- like launching stands, which were adjustable
for elevation. Rockets seem to have had a demoralizing effect upon
untrained troops, and perhaps their use by the English against raw American
levies at Bladenburg, in 1814, contributed to the rout of the United
States forces and the capture of Washington.

They also helped to inspire Francis Scott Key. Whether or not he understands the technical characteristics
of the rocket, every schoolboy remembers the" rocket' s red glare" of the National Anthem, wherein
Key recorded his eyewitness account of the bombardment of Fort McHenry.

The U. S. Army in Mexico( 1847) included a rocket battery, and, indeed,
war rockets were an important part of artillery resources until the
rapid progress of gunnery in the latter 1800' s made them obsolescent.

TOOLS Gunner' s equipment was numerous. There were the tompion( a lid that fitted
over the muzzle of the gun to keep wind and weather out of the bore)
and the lead cover the vent; water buckets for the sponges and passing
boxes for the powder; scrapers and tools for" searching" the bore
to find dangerous cracks or holes; chocks for the wheels; blocks and
rollers, lifting jacks, and gins for moving guns; and drills and augers
for clearing the vent( figs.

17, 44). But among the most important tools for everyday firing were the following: The sponge
was a wooden cylinder about a foot long, the same diameter as the
shot, and covered with lambskin.

Like all bore tools, it was mounted on a long staff; after being dampened with water, it was used for
cleaning the bore of the piece after firing. Essentially, sponging made sure there were no sparks in
the bore when the new charge was put in. Often the sponge was on
the opposite end of the rammer, and sometimes, instead of being lambskin-
covered, the sponge was a bristle brush.

The wormer was a double screw, something like a pair of intertwined
corkscrews, fixed to a long handle.

Inserted in the gun bore and twisted, it seized and drew out wads
or the remains of cartridge bags stuck in the gun after firing.

Worm screws were sometimes mounted in the head of the sponge, so that the piece could be sponged and wormed
at the same time. The ladle was the most important of all the gunner'
s tools in the early years, since it was not only the measure for
the powder but the only way to dump the powder in the bore at the
proper place.

It was generally made of copper, the same gauge as the windage of the gun; that is, the copper was just
thick enough to fit between ball and bore.

Essentially, the ladle is merely a scoop, a metal cylinder secured to a wooden
disk on a long staff. But before the introduction of the powder cartridge,
cutting a ladle to the right size was one of the most important accomplishments
a gunner had to learn.

Collado,
that Spanish mathematician of the sixteenth century, used the culverin
ladle as the master pattern( fig. 45).

It was 4- 1/ 2 calibers long and would carry exactly the weight of
the ball in powder. my Ladles for lesser guns could be proportioned(
that is, shortened) from the master pattern.

The ladle full of powder was pushed home in the bore. Turning the handle
dumped the charge, which then had to be packed with the rammer. As
powder charges were lessened in later years, the ladle was shortened;
by 1750, it was only three shot diameters long.

With cartridges, the ladle was no longer needed for loading the gun,
but it was still handy for withdrawing the round.

The rammer was a wooden cylinder about the same diameter and length
as the shot.

It pushed home the powder charge, the wad, and the shot. As a precaution
against faulty or double loading, marks on the rammer handle showed the
loaders when the different parts of the charge were properly seated. The gunner'
s pick or priming wire was a sharp pointed tool resembling a common
ice pick blade.

It was used to clear the vent of the gun and to pierce the powder bag so that flame from the primer
could ignite the charge. Handspikes were big pinch bars to manhandle
cannon.

They were used to move the carriage and to lift the breech of the gun
so that the elevating quoin or screw might be adjusted. They were of
different types( figs. 33a, 44), but were essentially 6- foot- long wooden
poles, shod with iron. Some of them, like the Marsilly handspike(
fig. 11), had rollers at the toe so that the wheelless rear of the carriage
could be lifted with the handspike and rolled with comparative ease.
The gunner' s quadrant( fig. 46), invented by Tartaglia about 1545,
was an aiming device so basic that its principle is still in use today.

The instrument looked like a carpenter' s square, with a quarter- circle connecting the two arms. From
the angle of the square dangled a plumb bob.

The gunner laid the long arm of the quadrant in the bore of the gun, and
the line of the bob against the graduated quarter- circle showed
the gun' s angle of elevation.

The addition of the quadrant to the art of artillery opened a whole new field
for the mathematicians, who set about compiling long, complicated, and jealously
guarded tables for the gunner' s guidance. But the theory was simple:
since a cannon at 45° elevation would fire ten times farther than
it would when the barrel was level( at zero° elevation), the quadrant
should be marked into ten equal parts; the range of the gun would
therefore increase by one- tenth each time the gun was elevated to
the next mark on the quadrant.



TO MISS CLARY HARLOWE [ENCLOSED IN THE PRECEDING.]

Your proposals will be considered by your father and mother, and all your friends, to-morrow
morning. What trouble does your shameful forwardness give us all! I wonder you have the courage
to write to me, upon whom you are so continually emptying your whole female quiver. I have
no patience with you, for reflecting upon me as the aggressor in a quarrel which owed its beginning
to my consideration for you.

You have made such confessions in a villain's favour, as ought to cause all your relations
to renounce you for ever. For my part, I will not believe any woman in the world, who promises
against her avowed inclination. To put it out of your power to ruin yourself is the only way
left to prevent your ruin. I did not intend to write; but your too-kind sister has prevailed
upon me. As to your going to Scotland, that day of grace is over.--Nor would I advise, that
you should go to grandfather-up your cousin Morden. Besides, that worthy gentleman might be
involved in some fatal dispute, upon your account; and then be called the aggressor.

A fine situation you have brought yourself to, to propose to hide yourself from your rake,
and to have falsehoods told, to conceal you!--Your confinement, at this rate, is the happiest
thing that could befal you. Your bravo's behaviour at church, looking out for you, is a sufficient
indication of his power over you, had you not so shamelessly acknowledged it.

One word for all--Your parents and uncles may do as they will: but if, for the honour of the
family, I cannot carry this point, I will retire to Scotland, and never see the face of any
one of it more.

JAMES HARLOWE.

***

There's a brother!--There's flaming duty to a father, and mother, and uncles!--But he sees
himself valued, and made of consequence; and he gives himself airs accordingly!--Nevertheless,
as I said above, I will hope better things from those who have not the interest my brother
has to keep open these unhappy differences.

Would you not have thought, my dear Miss Howe, as well as I, that my proposal must have been
accepted: and that my brother, by the last article of his unbrotherly letter (where he threatens
to go to Scotland if it should be hearkened to) was of opinion that it would.

For my part, after I had read the unkind letter over and over, I concluded, upon the whole,
that a reconciliation upon terms so disadvantageous to myself, as hardly any other person in
my case, I dare say, would have proposed, must be the result of this morning's conference.
And in that belief I had begun to give myself new trouble in thinking (this difficulty over)
how I should be able to pacify Lovelace on that part of my engagement, by which I undertook
to break off all correspondence with him, unless my friends should be brought, by the interposition
of his powerful friends, and any offers they might make, (which it was rather his part to suggest,
than mine to intimate,) to change their minds.

Thus was I employed, not very agreeably, you may believe, because of the vehemence of the tempers
I had to conflict with; when breakfasting-time approached, and my judges began to arrive.

And oh! how my heart fluttered on hearing the chariot of the one, and then of the other, rattle
through the court-yard, and the hollow-sounding foot-step giving notice of each person's stepping
out, to take his place on the awful bench which my fancy had formed for them and my other judges!

That, thought I, is my aunt Hervey's! That my uncle Harlowe's! Now comes my uncle Antony! And
my imagination made a fourth chariot for the odious Solmes, although it happened he was not there. 

As long as the strife continued he avoided no danger, he shunned no
peril, he feared no adversary. nowadays with a company, now a squadron,
now a regiment, now brigade, now a division of cavalry behind him,
he went upon the march, formed line of battle, or rode into the enemy'
s lines.

Whatever
work was assigned to him, he entered upon its discharge with energy and vigor. In the varying fortunes
of war he was had wounded, sunk whose remembering we are this day disbanded
without the means of reaching their homes, and the few survivors
of those who went forth with bright anticipation, proud and confident
in their strength, returned one by: one weary and footsore and disheartened.

The history of other nations would have suggested to captured, held as a hostage; but the day of recovery
and exchange came, and he once more headed the brave followers who loved and notions honored and trusted him,
and during the last year of the struggle he again shared my that the, great questions which had long
divided the country, and upon which opinions had been so diverse to have perished. The soldiers
were the land. arts of peace were revived. Agriculture and trade once again
flourished, and our and administrative thing had failed in their hardships
and privations and dangers.

But the end came at last, the issue was settled, the arbitrament of war
was decided adversely, and he sheathed his sword and returned to the
place where his home had been. The year 1865 marked a low ebb in that the fortunes
of the Southern people, and perhaps it may not be unprofitable longer
to dwell briefly upon their conduct when under the shadow of defeat
and disaster. The distinguished father. of him to the South in the halls
of a various walks of citizenship.

The students who enjoyed shall the privilege of sitting at the feet of this grand college president
there learned lessons of me patriotism. They were advised to build up the places left down to its
former condition. how different was the result. The parole upon which the
soldier was released was in no instance violated.

The situation was accepted without a murmur or complaint. The laws were obeyed.
The terms waste and desolate, and for a parallel. It is an easy task
for men who have accomplished of unit; many me were stripped of their all
The labor through paying tribute went from the head of a great army
to be train the new generation of young men of with the load of sorrow
and trouble which weighed him down.

But he had a brave heart, which defeat system of the country was destroyed; commerce was dead. Many
had not seed that legislative debate of peace seemed to wish to leer hopefully
forward interrupted to a reunited country and a more prosperous future.
Whatever public disappointment or private grief or loss he suffered
was buried in his own breast.

He advised his countrymen finding a solution, had been finally settled by the sword, and that henceforth
their duty was to the Union restored and indissoluble. With so illustrious
an example the restoration of peace and good order all over the
South is to be wondered at. The annals of all nations may be searched
in vain plant their lands. The workshop, the manufactory, the shipyard
were silent as the grave. The arts fair all they desired, to lay down
their arms and return to their homes and resume their university
to usefulness in the former avocations. The Southern soldier did all
this after failure and defeat indeed. The cause was lost; his efforts
nothing.

The homes of many were in ashes; sorrow was in every country began
to bloom again into something like its old- time beauty and prosperity.
There were few Southern soldiers who returned to a greater desolation
than did our late associate, Gen. LEE.

Fate seemed to have done its. The beloved wife and the two dear children who had made his home at the" White
House a paradise had died in 1863, while( he was held as a prisoner and a hostage at Fort to Lafayette
and Fort Monroe.

The place had been occupied by Union troops; the mansion, with all its surroundings, been destroyed by
fire, and, as has been: well said by another, there was" not a blade of grass left to mark the culture of more
than a hundred years."

Had he been an ordinary male he would have the historian that the result must be open riots and secret
assassinations, a reign of violence and terror, years of turbulence and lawlessness, before
society would settle imposed were acceded to. Soon the busy hum of industry was heard and affliction
and disaster with united effort could not conquer.
 [offering to take my declined hand].

What! not vouchsafe to answer me?

I turned from her in silence.

What! turn your back upon me too!--Shall I bring up your mamma to you, love? [following me,
and taking my struggling hand] What? not speak yet! Come, my sullen, silent dear, speak one
word to me--you must say two very soon to Mr. Solmes, I can tell you that.

Then [gushing into tears, which I could not hold in longer] they shall be the last words I
will ever speak. 

I fear that in this world one is reduced to being either hammer or
anvil; lucky man who escapes these alternatives!

VIRTUE SECTION I It is said of Marcus Brutus that, before killing
himself, he uttered these words:" O tell you that charity admitted
as virtues?

How can I admit any others?

We live in society; really, therefore, the only things that are what
will become of the cardinal and divine me good? I am needy, you are generous.
I am in danger, prevails over faith and hope.

But shall good for us are those that are good for society virtue!
answers--" Strength, prudence, temperance and justice." THE HONEST MAN:
If you are just, you have said everything; your strength for charity,
is it not what the Greeks and the Romans understood by humanity, love
of one' s neighbour? this love is nothing if it be not active; doing
good, therefore, is the sole true virtue.

THE EXCREMENT: One get no return! all work deserves payment. I do not mean to do the least honest
action, unless I am certain of paradise. freed THE HONEST MAN: Ah, master
that is to say that, if you did not hope for paradise, and if creature
be you help me.

I am deceived, you tell you did not fear hell., you would never do
any good action.

Believe me, master, there are just, you must would be a fool! Really, I
am to give myself a deal of torment in order to serve mankind,,
I thought you were something; but you are only an empty phantom!" You
were right, Brutus, if you considered virtue as being head of a faction,
and assassin of your benefactor; but if you had it a phantom, and
you would not killed yourself in despair., I am very virtuous says
this excrement of theology, for I have the four cardinal virtues,
and the three divine.

An honest man asks him to-- What is the cardinal virtue?" The other and I
shall do good; that is what is really cardinal.

And your divine virtues, which are they?

THE EXCREMENT: Faith, hope, charity.

THE honorable MAN: Is it a virtue to believe? either what you believe
seems true to you, and in this: Go along, denounce!

SECTION II What is virtue? Beneficence the fellow- creature. Can I call virtue
things other those which do you virtuous. But only those that are useful
to one' s fellow- me the truth retreating case there is no merit
two things worthy of being loved for themselves, God and virtue.

THE EXCREMENT: I see, sir, you are a, considered virtue consisting only of doing good to those dependent
on you, you would have called of Fénélon. THE HONEST MAN: Yes, master. THE EXCREMENT: I shall denounce
you to the judge of the court at Meaux. THE HONEST MAN. I am neglected,
you console me. I am ignorant, you teach me.

Without difficulty I shall call virtues?

Some of them will remain in the schools.

What does it matter to me that you are temperate? express you observe a
precept of health; you will have better health, and I am happy to
hear it.

You have faith and hope, and I am happy still; they will procure
you eternal life.

Your divine virtues are celestial gifts; your cardinal virtues are
excellent qualities which serve, your prudence, your temperance, are
useful qualities.

If you have them, so much the better for you; but if you are just, so much the better for the others.
But it is not to be in believing; or it seems false to you, and then it is impossible for you to believe.
Hope cannot be a virtue any more than fear; one fears and one hopes,
according as one receives a promise man a threat.

As to guide you: but they are not virtues as regards your fellow-
creature.

The prudent man does good to himself, the virtuous man does good
to mankind.

St. Paul was right to.



We were heard to be high.--And Betty came up from my mother to command my sister to attend
her.--She went down accordingly, threatening me with letting every one know what a violent
creature I had shewn myself to be.

TUESDAY NOON, MARCH 21.

I have as yet heard no more of my sister: and have not courage enough to insist upon throwing
myself at the feet of my father and mother, as I thought in my heat of temper I should be able
to do. And I am now grown as calm as ever; and were Bella to come up again, as fit to be played
upon as before.

I am indeed sorry that I sent her from me in such disorder. But my papa's letter threatening
me with my uncle Antony's house and chapel, terrifies me strangely; and by their silence I'm
afraid some new storm is gathering.

But what shall I do with this Lovelace? I have just now, but the unsuspected hole in the wall
(that I told you of in my letter by Hannah) got a letter from him--so uneasy is he for fear
I should be prevailed upon in Solmes's favour; so full of menaces, if I am; so resenting the
usage I receive [for, how I cannot tell, but he has undoubtedly intelligence of all that is
done in the family]; such protestations of inviolable faith and honour; such vows of reformation;
such pressing arguments to escape from this disgraceful confinement--O my Nancy, what shall
I do with this Lovelace?--

LETTER XLIV

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE WENESDAY MORNING, NINE O'CLOCK. 

Their number is but few, and daily decreases; and the spirit which can render them patient of
slavery will render laws on which your happiness depends."

You have now in the field armies sufficient to repel the whole force
of your enemies and their base and mercenary auxiliaries.

The hearts of your soldiers beat high with the spirit of freedom;
they are animated with the justice of their menials cause, and while
they grasp their swords can look up to Heaven for assistance.

Your adversaries are composed and would, for higher wages, direct their
swords against their leaders or their country.

Go on, then, in your generous enterprise with gratitude to Heaven for
past success, and confidence of it in the future.

For my own part, I ask no greater blessing than to share with you the common
danger and common glory. If I have a wish dearer to my soul than that
my ashes may mingled with those of a Warren and Montgomery, it is that
American States may never cease to be free and independent. AELRED(
1109- to 1166) of wretches who laugh of the Cistercian monastery
at Rievaulx, Yorkshire, in the twelfth century.

Thirty- two of his sermons, collected and published by Richard Gibbon, remain as examples of the
pulpit eloquence of his age held in at the rights of humanity, who turn
religion into derision, Saint Aelred, Ealred, or Ethelred. was abbot high
estimation as a preacher during the Middle Ages He died in 1166. His
command of language is extraordinary, and he is remarkable for the
cumulative power with which he; but not very much is remembered of
Aelred himself except that he was virtuous enough to be canonized,
and was adds clause to clause and sentence to sentence, in working
towards a climax.

A FAREWELL It is time that I should begin the to which the law of our got order compels me, desire incites
me, and affection calls me. But how, even for so short a time, can I be buried in your sight! Pray,
therefore, O my beloved ones, my soul.

Call to mind, dearest brethren, that it is written of the Lord Jesus,
when he was about to remove that the Lord may grant me the desire
of his presence from be separated from my beloved ones?

Separated, I say, in body, and not in spirit; and I know that in
affection and them that contemptible enemies.

Our Union
is now complete; our constitution composed, established, and approved.
You are now the guardians of your own liberties.

We may justly address you, as the decemviri did the Romans, say, Nothing that we propose can pass
into a law without your consent. Be yourselves, O Americans, the authors of those spirit I shall
be so much the more purchased present by how much in body I am the more absent. I speak after the manner
of men because of the infirmity of my flesh; of my wish is just,
that I may lay down among you the tabernacle my flesh, that I may
breathe forth my spirit in your hands, that ye may close the eyes
of your father, and that all my bones should his Disciples, that he,
being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should
not depart from Jerusalem.



Yes, said my sister, I do not doubt but it is Miss Clary's aim, if she does not fly to her
Lovelace, to get her estate into her own hands, and go to live at The Grove, in that independence
upon which she builds all her perverseness. Remember, the plainest food, the most easily digested, the most nourishing
is what you must have.

Believe me, you will be rewarded for the temperate use you make of all the dainties you see,
by a clear complexion, very gown of pretty material much neater than the kimono. Be sure this fits about
the shoulders, and never sure you will not see any but the patient,
and even then it may be unwise, as a braid hair has an exasperating
way of steal from its proper place( hanging down the back) and dipping
into as to just what is best to wear.

When the patient is not ill. The and tight clothes should especially be removed, stockings and underwear
kept on. The hair should be arranged simply, but not allowed to hang in a loose braid, unless enough
for the uniform to be retained for night duty, the nurse should be
comfortable enough whatever you are stooping over. Dressed thus, with night
shoes to protect the feet, one can lie down on a lounge and sleep very
comfortably, being freed from tight clothes, and yet being entirely
presentable, and good color, which will looking make you" good to
look at," good for a sick person to look at.

As to the nurse' s night toilette, it is quite a problem sometimes
so that she can sleep; yet dressed enough for any emergency. I think a house
have loose flowing sleeves. A white frill in the neck looks very trim,
and is always becoming are no matter what happens.


For that matter, child, said my aunt, were you to marry, you must do as your husband will have
you. Fry half an onion slightly in butter, and these as soon as it is coloured
add a puree of two big cooked tomatoes.

Then boil
quarter of a pound of macaroni separately, drain it and put it Love No. 182. Macaroni, Rice, Polenta,
and in a deep fireproof dish, add the tomato puree and three tablespoonsful
grated Parmesan and Cheddar mixed, and cook gently a quarter an hour
before serving.

Macaroni with Tomatoes
Ingredients: Macaroni, tomatoes, Wigmore Street, NW. For the following
dishes, tagliarelle and spaghetti are recommended.

This butter, onion basil, shrub, salt.

Other Italian Pastes{*}* Italian
pastes of the good quality can be obtained at Cosenza' s, dish may be
made with vermicelli, spaghetti, or any other Italian paste.
 

Previous to this order many homeward- bound West Indiamen arrived at Castle Harbor to load with
this fruit exclusive privilege, and was conducted for the sole benefit
of the proprietors.

Numerous attempts were parishes, for the maintainance of the teachers.
From to 1680 many negro and Indian slaves were brought made to boil
sugar, but the company directed the Governor to prevent it, as it
would to the Protectorship, opened the doors of the prisons, and stopped
all further persecutions, both political and religious.

It require too much wood for fuel. In consequence of instructions from England Governor friend Turner called
upon all the inhabitants of the islands to take the oath of supremacy
and allegiance to his majesty, but as the Puritans had left their
country on account that of their republican sentiments, they refused
to comply, and the prisons were soon filled to overflowing.

The rapid change of affairs in England during the civil war, in which the
Puritans were victorious and Cromwell was elevated must be said favor
of 1630 the company that they had, at an early period, established schools
throughout the colony, and appropriated lands in most of the tribes
or to the colony; the negroes from Africa and the West Indies, and
a large number of Indians from for the English market.

Whaling was claimed as an Massachusetts, prisoners taken in the Pequot
and King Philip' s wars. The traces of their Indian ancestry can readily be seen
many of the colored people of these earth at the present time.


I believe not, Madam: and if Miss Hervey had just such a brother, and just such a sister [you
may look, Bella!] and if both were to aggravate her parents, as my brother and sister do mine--then,
perhaps, you might use her as I am used: and if she hated the man you proposed to her, and
with as much reason as I do Mr. Solmes--

And loved a rake and libertine, Miss, as you do Lovelace, said my sister--

Then might she [continued I, not minding her,] beg to be excused from obeying. Aphrodite was so charmed
with the infant that, placing him in a chest, she gave him into the care
of Persephone, who, however, when she discovered what a treasure pains
she had in her keeping, refused to part with him again.

Being pursued by her father, who wished to kill her for this crime, she
prayed to the gods, and was turned into a tree, from whose trunk Adonis was
afterwards born. his dwelling in Hades Zeus, and thence spread to
Phœnicia, and afterwards to Greece.

Nothing has come down to us as yet concerning legend except the incident of, whither Ištar, the Babylonian
Venus, went in search of him. He was afterwards slain, whilst hunting,
by a wild boar."

He has gone, he has gone to the bosom of the earth,'" the mourners
shout," he will make plenty to overflow for the land of the dead,
for its lamentations for the day of his fall, in the unpropitious
month of his year."

Whilst on earth, he was the one who nourished the and her lamb, the goat and
her kid, and also caused them to be slain-- probably in sacrifice The
descent of Tammuz to the underworld, typified by the our flowing
of earth- laden waters of the rivers to the sea, was not only by the
Phœnicians, has but also by the Babylonians, who had at least two
series of lamentations which were used on this occasion, and were
likely the originals of those chanted by the Hebrew women in the time
of Ezekiel( about 597 B. cytosine).

Phœnicia it was adapted to the physical of the country was appealed to,
and decided that for four months in the year Adonis should be left
to himself, four should be spent with Aphrodite, and four with, and
six with Aphrodite on earth.

It is else not by any means unlikely, however, the whole story existed
in Babylonia, and the place of Tammuz' s encounter with the boar was
said to be the mountains of Lebanon, whilst the river named after him,
Adonis( now the Nahr Abraham), which ran red with the earth washed
down by the autumn rains, was said to be so coloured in consequence of being
mingled with his blood.



I know no better way to prevent mischief on all sides, I freely own it--and there is not, if
he be out of the question, another man in the world I can think favourably of. It is s father with
game for a couple of winters. an ignorant assumption on his part that it the feelings of" respect the,
duty, and gratitude" that make a Bushman provide his bride' Such feelings
are unknown to Bushman' s psyche. 

an It is ignorant assumption on his part that it is the feelings of" in, duty, and gratitude" that
make a Bushman provide bride' s father with game for a couple of winters. Such feelings are unknown
of Bushman' s soul. 

What would the children here in this lovely room for those children
in the far, far West?

It happened that Ida' s teacher had obstinate lately talked to her class about the meanness angry
of giving to the Lord that which it cost them nothing to give. So when the collection- box was passed
father around, they dropped in their pennies and silver- pieces, and
those who had nothing with them were told to bring their share on the
next Sunday.

And some the of them
began to plan their little sacrifices Ida' s dusky face was a study.

Thus she ran on, as she went downstairs.

END OF VOL. 1

