Rain was falling almost constantly during the week we spent in Glacier Bay. Now and then the
clouds would lift, showing the twin peaks of La Perouse and the majestic summits of Mts. Fairweather
and Crillon. These mighty summits, twelve thousand, fifteen thousand and sixteen thousand feet
high, respectively, pierced the sky directly above us; sometimes they seemed to be hanging
over us threateningly. Only once did the sky completely clear; and then was preached to us
the wonderful Sermon of Glacier Bay.

Early that morning we quitted our camp on a barren rock, steering towards Mt. Fairweather.
A night of sleepless discomfort had ushered in a bleak gray morning. Our Indians were sullen
and silent, their scowling looks resenting our relentless purpose to attain to the head of
the bay. The air was damp and raw, chilling us to the marrow. The forbidding granite mountains,
showing here and there through the fog, seemed suddenly to push out threatening fists and shoulders
at us. All night long the ice-guns had bombarded us from four or five directions, when the
great masses of ice from living glaciers toppled into the sea, crashing and grinding with the
noise of thunder. The granite walls hurled back the sound in reiterated peals, multiplying
its volume a hundredfold.

There was no Love apparent on that bleak, gray morning: Power was there in appalling force.
Visions of those evergreen forests that had once clung trustingly to these mountain walls,
but had been swept, one and all, by the relentless forces of the ice and buried deep under
mountains of moraine matter, but added to the present desolation. We could not enjoy; we could
only endure. Death from overturning icebergs, from charging tides, from mountain avalanche,
threatened us.

Suddenly I heard Muir catch his breath with a fervent ejaculation. "God, Almighty!" he said.
Following his gaze towards Mt. Crillon, I saw the summit highest of all crowned with glory
indeed. It was not sunlight; there was no appearance of shining; it was as if the Great Artist
with one sweep of His brush had laid upon the king-peak of all a crown of the most brilliant
of all colors--as if a pigment, perfectly made and thickly spread, too delicate for crimson,
too intense for pink, had leaped in a moment upon the mountain top; "An awful rose of dawn."
The summit nearest Heaven had caught a glimpse of its glory! It was a rose blooming in ice-fields,
a love-song in the midst of a stern epic, a drop from the heart of Christ upon the icy desolation
and barren affections of a sin-frozen world. It warmed and thrilled us in an instant. We who
had been dull and apathetic a moment before, shivering in our wet blankets, were glowing and
exultant now. Even the Indians ceased their paddling, gazing with faces of awe upon the wonder.
Now, as we watched that kingly peak, we saw the color leap to one and another and another of
the snowy summits around it. The monarch had a whole family of royal princes about him to share
his glory. Their radiant heads, ruby crowned, were above the clouds, which seemed to form their
silken garments.

As we looked in ecstatic silence we saw the light creep down the mountains. It was changing
now. The glowing crimson was suffused with soft, creamy light. If it was less divine, it was
more warmly human. Heaven was coming down to man. The dark recesses of the mountains began
to lighten. They stood forth as at the word of command from the Master of all; and as the changing
mellow light moved downward that wonderful colosseum appeared clearly with its battlements
and peaks and columns, until the whole majestic landscape was revealed.

Now we saw the design and purpose of it all. Now the text of this great sermon was emblazoned
across the landscape--"God is Love"; and we understood that these relentless forces that had
pushed the molten mountains heavenward, cooled them into granite peaks, covered them with snow
and ice, dumped the moraine matter into the sea, filling up the sea, preparing the world for
a stronger and better race of men (who knows?), were all a part of that great "All things"
that "work together for good."

Our minds cleared with the landscape; our courage rose; our Indians dipped their paddles silently,
steering without fear amidst the dangerous masses of ice. But there was no profanity in Muir's
exclamation, "We have met with God!" A lifelong devoutness of gratitude filled us, to think
that we were guided into this most wonderful room of God's great gallery, on perhaps the only
day in the year when the skies were cleared and the sunrise, the atmospheric conditions and
the point of view all prepared for the matchless spectacle. The discomforts of the voyage,
the toil, the cold and rain of the past weeks were a small price to pay for one glimpse of
its surpassing loveliness. Again and again Muir would break out, after a long silence of blissful
memory, with exclamations:

"We saw it; we saw it! He sent us to His most glorious exhibition. Praise God, from whom all
blessings flow!"

Two or three inspiring days followed. Muir must climb the most accessible of the mountains.
My weak shoulders forbade me to ascend more than two or three thousand feet, but Muir went
more than twice as high. Upon two or three of the glaciers he climbed, although the speed of
these icy streams was so great and their "frozen cataracts" were so frequent, that it was difficult
to ascend them.

I began to understand Muir's whole new theory, which theory made Tyndall pronounce him the
greatest authority on glacial action the world had seen. He pointed out to me the mechanical
laws that governed those slow-moving, resistless streams; how they carved their own valleys;
how the lower valley and glacier were often the resultant in size and velocity of the two or
three glaciers that now formed the branches of the main glaciers; how the harder strata of
rock resisted and turned the masses of ice; how the steely ploughshares were often inserted
into softer leads and a whole mountain split apart as by a wedge.

Muir would explore all day long, often rising hours before daylight and disappearing among
the mountains, not coming to camp until after night had fallen. Again and again the Indians
said that he was lost; but I had no fears for him. When he would return to camp he was so full
of his discoveries and of the new facts garnered that he would talk until long into the night,
almost forgetting to eat.

Returning down the bay, we passed the largest glacier of all, which was to bear Muir's name.
It was then fully a mile and a half in width, and the perpendicular face of it towered from
four to seven hundred feet above the surface of the water. The ice masses were breaking off
so fast that we were forced to put off far from the face of the glacier. The great waves threatened
constantly to dash us against the sharp points of the icebergs. We wished to land and scale
the glacier from the eastern side. We rowed our canoe about half a mile from the edge of the
glacier, but, attempting to land, were forced hastily to put off again. A great wave, formed
by the masses of ice breaking off into the water, threatened to dash our loaded canoe against
the boulders on the beach. Rowing further away, we tried it again and again, with the same
result. As soon as we neared the shore another huge wave would threaten destruction. We were
fully a mile and a half from the edge of the glacier before we found it safe to land.

