HISTORY OF ENGLISH LITERATURE

ELIZABETHAN LITERATURE

  +---------------------------------------------+
  |                                             |
  |      A HISTORY OF ENGLISH LITERATURE        |
  |                                             |
  |       In Six Volumes, Crown 8vo.          |
  |                                             |
  |  ENGLISH LITERATURE FROM THE BEGINNING      |
  |    TO THE NORMAN CONQUEST. By Rev. STOPFORD |
  |    A. BROOKE, M.A. 8s. 6d.                  |
  |                                             |
  |  ENGLISH LITERATURE FROM THE NORMAN         |
  |    CONQUEST TO CHAUCER. By Prof. W. H.      |
  |    SCHOFIELD, Ph.D. 8s. 6d.                 |
  |                                             |
  |  THE AGE OF CHAUCER. By Professor W. H.     |
  |    SCHOFIELD, Ph.D.  [In preparation.     |
  |                                             |
  |  ELIZABETHAN LITERATURE (1560-1665). By     |
  |    GEORGE SAINTSBURY. 8s. 6d.               |
  |                                             |
  |  EIGHTEENTH CENTURY LITERATURE (1660-1780). Saintsbury's
  A History of English Literature in the Nineteenth
  Century.

Kennedy's
  
  English Literature, 1880-1905.
  
  
  
  Walker's Greater Victorian Poets.
  
  
  Brownell's
  
  Victorian Prose Masters.
  
  
  

Payne's The Greater English Poets of the Nineteenth Century.

Brooke's
Four Victorian Poets (Rossetti, Arnold, Morris).

Perry's A Study of Prose Fiction.

Benson's Rossetti.

(E.M.L.)

Noyes's
William Morris. (E.M.L.)

Trevelyan's Life and Letters of Macaulay.

Morrison's Macaulay.

(E.M.L.)

Minto's
English Prose Literature (Macaulay and Carlyle).

Barry's Newman.

Ward's
The Life of John Henry, Cardinal Newman, 2 vols.

Newman's Letters
and Correspondence, with a Brief Autobiography.

Carlyle's Reminiscences.

Froude's
Thomas Carlyle, 2 vols. Nichol's Carlyle. I. From the Origins to Spenser.     |
  |      12s. 6d. net.                          |
  |    Vol. II. From Shakespeare to Crabbe.     |
  |      18s. net.                              |
  |    Vol. III. From Blake to Mr. Swinburne.   |
  |      18s. net.                              |
  |                                             |
  |  HISTORICAL MANUAL OF ENGLISH PROSODY.      |
  |    Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. net.                  |
  |                                             |
  |  A HISTORY OF THE FRENCH NOVEL. 8vo.        |
  |    Vol. I. From the Beginning to 1880.      |
  |      18s. net.                              |
  |    Vol. II. From 1800 to 1900. 18s. net.    |
  |                                             |
  |  A HISTORY OF ENGLISH PROSE RHYTHM.         |
  |    8vo. 18s. net.                           |
  |                                             |
  |  LIFE OF DRYDEN. Library Edition.           |
  |    Crown 8vo, 3s. net; Pocket Edition,      |
  |      Fcap. 8vo, 2s. net.                    |
  |                 [English Men of Letters.  |
  |                                             |
  |  A FIRST BOOK OF ENGLISH LITERATURE.        |
  |    Globe 8vo. Sewed, 2s. Stiff Boards,      |
  |      2s. 3d.                                |
  |                                             |
  |  NOTES ON A CELLAR-BOOK. Small 4to.         |
  |      7s. 6d. net.                           |
  |                                             |
  |  MACMILLAN AND CO., LTD., LONDON.           |
  |                                             |
  +---------------------------------------------+

  A HISTORY

    OF

  ELIZABETHAN LITERATURE

    BY

  GEORGE SAINTSBURY

  MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED
  ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON
  1920

COPYRIGHT

First Edition 1887. Second Edition 1890.

Reprinted 1893, 1894, 1896, 1898, 1901, 1903, 1907, 1910, 1913, 1918, 1920.

PREFACE TO NINTH EDITION

As was explained in the Note to the Preface of the previous editions and impressions of this
book, after the first, hardly one of them appeared without careful revision, and the insertion
of a more or less considerable number of additions and corrections. I found, indeed, few errors
of a kind that need have seemed serious except to Momus or Zoilus. But in the enormous number
of statements of fact which literary history of the more exact kind requires, minor blunders,
be they more or fewer, are sure to creep in. No writer, again, who endeavours constantly to
keep up and extend his knowledge of such a subject as Elizabethan literature, can fail to have
something new to say from time to time. And though no one who is competent originally for his
task ought to experience any violent changes of view, any one's views may undergo modification.
In particular, he may find that readers have misunderstood him, and that alterations of expression
are desirable. For all these reasons and others I have not spared trouble in the various revisions
referred to; I think the book has been kept by them fairly abreast of its author's knowledge,
and I hope it is not too far behind that of others.

It will, however, almost inevitably happen that a long series of piecemeal corrections and
codicils somewhat disfigures the character of the composition as a whole. And after nearly
the full score of years, and not much less than half a score of re-appearances, it has seemed
to me desirable to make a somewhat more thorough, minute, and above all connected revision
than I have ever made before. And so, my publishers falling in with this view, the present
edition represents the result. I do not think it necessary to reprint the original preface.
When I wrote it I had already had some, and since I wrote it I have had much more, experience
in writing literary history. I have never seen reason to alter the opinion that, to make such
history of any value at all, the critical judgments and descriptions must represent direct,
original, and first-hand reading and thought; and that in these critical judgments and descriptions
the value of it consists. Even summaries and analyses of the matter of books, except in so
far as they are necessary to criticism, come far second; while biographical and bibliographical
details are of much less importance, and may (as indeed in one way or another they generally
must) be taken at second hand. The completion of the Dictionary of National Biography has at
once facilitated the task of the writer, and to a great extent disarmed the candid critic who
delights, in cases of disputed date, to assume that the date which his author chooses is the
wrong one. And I have in the main adjusted the dates in this book (where necessary) accordingly.
The bibliographical additions which have been made to the Index will be found not inconsiderable.

I believe that, in my present plan, there is no author of importance omitted (there were not
many even in the first edition), and that I have been able somewhat to improve the book from
the results of twenty years' additional study, twelve of which have been mainly devoted to
English literature. How far it must still be from being worthy of its subject, nobody can know
better than I do. But I know also, and I am very happy to know, that, as an Elizabethan himself
might have said, my unworthiness has guided many worthy ones to something like knowledge, and
to what is more important than knowledge, love, of a subject so fascinating and so magnificent.
And that the book may still have the chance of doing this, I hope to spare no trouble upon
it as often as the opportunity presents itself.[1]

  EDINBURGH, January 30, 1907.

[1] In the last (eleventh) re-impression no alterations seemed necessary. In this, one or two
bibliographical matters may call for notice. Every student of Donne should now consult Professor
Grierson's edition of the Poems (2 vols., Oxford, 1912), and as inquiries have been made as
to the third volume of my own Caroline Poets (see Index), containing Cleveland, King, Stanley,
and some less known authors, I may be permitted to say that it has been in the press for years,
and a large part of it is completed. But various stoppages, in no case due to neglect, and
latterly made absolute by the war, have prevented its appearance.--BATH, October 8, 1918.

CONTENTS

  CHAPTER I

  FROM TOTTEL'S MISCELLANY TO SPENSER

  The starting-point--Tottel's Miscellany--Its method and authorship--The
      characteristics of its poetry--Wyatt--Surrey--Grimald--Their metres
      --The stuff of their poems--The Mirror for Magistrates--Sackville
      --His contributions and their characteristics--Remarks on the formal
      criticism of poetry--Gascoigne--Churchyard--Tusser--Turberville--
      Googe--The translators--Classical metres--Stanyhurst--Other
      miscellanies                                               Pages 1-27

  CHAPTER II

  EARLY ELIZABETHAN PROSE

  Outlines of Early Elizabethan Prose--Its origins--Cheke and his
      contemporaries--Ascham--His style--Miscellaneous writers--Critics--
      Webbe--Puttenham--Lyly--Euphues and Euphuism--Sidney--His style and
      critical principles--Hooker--Greville--Knolles--Mulcaster       28-49

  CHAPTER III

  THE FIRST DRAMATIC PERIOD

  Divisions of Elizabethan Drama--Its general character--Origins--Ralph
      Roister Doister--Gammer Gurton's Needle--Gorboduc--The Senecan
      Drama--Other early plays--The "university wits"--Their lives and
      characters--Lyly (dramas)--The Marlowe group--Peele--Greene--Kyd--
      Marlowe--The actor playwrights                                  50-81

  CHAPTER IV

  "THE FAËRIE QUEENE" AND ITS GROUP

  Spenser--His life and the order of his works--The Shepherd's Calendar
      --The minor poems--The Faërie Queene--Its scheme--The Spenserian
      stanza--Spenser's language--His general poetical qualities--
      Comparison with other English poets--His peculiar charm--The
      Sonneteers--Fulke Greville--Sidney--Watson--Barnes--Giles Fletcher
      the elder--Lodge--Avisa--Percy--Zepheria--Constable--Daniel--
      Drayton--Alcilia--Griffin--Lynch--Smith--Barnfield--Southwell--The
      song and madrigal writers--Campion--Raleigh--Dyer--Oxford, etc.--
      Gifford--Howell, Grove, and others--The historians--Warner--The
      larger poetical works of Daniel and Drayton--The satirists--Lodge--
      Donne--The poems of Donne generally--Hall--Marston--Guilpin--Tourneur
                                                                     82-156

  CHAPTER V

  THE SECOND DRAMATIC PERIOD--SHAKESPERE

  Difficulty of writing about Shakespere--His life--His reputation in
      England and its history--Divisions of his work--The Poems--The
      Sonnets--The Plays--Characteristics of Shakespere--Never unnatural--
      His attitude to morality--His humour--Universality of his range--
      Comments on him--His manner of working--His variety--Final remarks--
      Dramatists to be grouped with Shakespere--Ben Jonson--Chapman--
      Marston--Dekker                                               157-206

  CHAPTER VI

  LATER ELIZABETHAN AND JACOBEAN PROSE

  Bacon--Raleigh--The Authorised Version--Jonson and Daniel as
      prose-writers--Hakluyt--The Pamphleteers--Greene--Lodge--Harvey--Nash
      --Dekker--Breton--The Martin Marprelate Controversy--Account of it,
      with specimens of the chief tracts                            207-252

  CHAPTER VII

  THE THIRD DRAMATIC PERIOD

  Characteristics--Beaumont and Fletcher--Middleton--Webster--Heywood--
      Tourneur--Day                                                 253-288

  CHAPTER VIII

  THE SCHOOL OF SPENSER AND THE TRIBE OF BEN

  Sylvester--Davies of Hereford--Sir John Davies--Giles and Phineas
      Fletcher--William Browne--Wither--Drummond--Stirling--Minor Jacobean
      poets--Songs from the dramatists                              289-314

  CHAPTER IX

  MILTON, TAYLOR, CLARENDON, BROWNE, HOBBES

  The quintet--Milton's life--His character--His periods of literary
      production--First Period, the minor poems--The special excellences of
      Comus--Lycidas--Second Period, the pamphlets--Their merits and
      defects--Milton's prose style--Third Period, the larger poems--
      Milton's blank verse--His origins--His comparative position--Jeremy
      Taylor's life--His principal works--His style--Characteristics of his
      thought and manner--Sir Thomas Browne--His life, works, and editions
      --His literary manner--Characteristics of his style and vocabulary--
      His Latinising--Remarkable adjustment of his thought and expression--
      Clarendon--His life--Great merits of his History--Faults of his
      style--Hobbes--His life and works--Extraordinary strength and
      clearness of his style                                        315-353

  CHAPTER X

  CAROLINE POETRY

  Herrick--Carew--Crashaw--Divisions of Minor Caroline poetry--Miscellanies
      --George Herbert--Sandys--Vaughan--Lovelace and Suckling--Montrose--
      Quarles--More--Beaumont--Habington--Chalkhill--Marmion--Kynaston--
      Chamberlayne--Benlowes--Stanley--John Hall--Patrick Carey--Cleveland
      --Corbet--Cartwright, Sherburne, and Brome--Cotton--The general
      characteristics of Caroline poetry--A defence of the Caroline poets
                                                                    354-393

  CHAPTER XI

  THE FOURTH DRAMATIC PERIOD

  Weakening of dramatic strength--Massinger--Ford--Shirley--Randolph--Brome
      --Cokain--Glapthorne--Davenant--Suckling--Minor and anonymous plays
      of the Fourth and other Periods--The Shakesperian Apocrypha   394-427

  CHAPTER XII

  MINOR CAROLINE PROSE

  Burton--Fuller--Lord Herbert of Cherbury--Izaak Walton--Howell--Earle--
      Felltham--The rest                                            428-444

  CONCLUSION                                                            445

CHAPTER I

FROM TOTTEL'S "MISCELLANY" TO SPENSER

In a work like the present, forming part of a larger whole and preceded by another part, the
writer has the advantage of being almost wholly free from a difficulty which often presses
on historians of a limited and definite period, whether of literary or of any other history.
That difficulty lies in the discussion and decision of the question of origins--in the allotment
of sufficient, and not more than sufficient, space to a preliminary recapitulation of the causes
and circumstances of the actual events to be related. Here there is no need for any but the
very briefest references of the kind to connect the present volume with its forerunner, or
rather to indicate the connection of the two.

There has been little difference of opinion as to the long dead-season of English poetry, broken
chiefly, if not wholly, by poets Scottish rather than English, which lasted through almost
the whole of the fifteenth and the first half of the sixteenth centuries. There has also been
little difference in regarding the remarkable work (known as Tottel's Miscellany, but more
properly called Songs and Sonnets, written by the Right Honourable Lord Henry Howard, late
Earl of Surrey, and other) which was published by Richard Tottel in 1557, and which went through
two editions in the summer of that year, as marking the dawn of the new period. The book is,
indeed, remarkable in many ways. The first thing, probably, which strikes the modern reader
about it is the fact that great part of its contents is anonymous and only conjecturally to
be attributed, while as to the part which is more certainly known to be the work of several
authors, most of those authors were either dead or had written long before. Mr. Arber's remarks
in his introduction (which, though I have rather an objection to putting mere citations before
the public, I am glad here to quote as a testimony in the forefront of this book to the excellent
deserts of one who by himself has done as much as any living man to facilitate the study of
Elizabethan literature) are entirely to the point--how entirely to the point only students
of foreign as well as of English literature know. "The poets of that age," says Mr. Arber,
"wrote for their own delectation and for that of their friends, and not for the general public.
They generally had the greatest aversion to their works appearing in print." This aversion,
which continued in France till the end of the seventeenth century, if not later, had been somewhat
broken down in England by the middle of the sixteenth, though vestiges of it long survived,
and in the form of a reluctance to be known to write for money, may be found even within the
confines of the nineteenth. The humbler means and lesser public of the English booksellers
have saved English literature from the bewildering multitude of pirated editions, printed from
private and not always faithful manuscript copies, which were for so long the despair of the
editors of many French classics. But the manuscript copies themselves survive to a certain
extent, and in the more sumptuous and elaborate editions of our poets (such as, for instance,
Dr. Grosart's Donne) what they have yielded may be studied with some interest. Moreover, they
have occasionally preserved for us work nowhere else to be obtained, as, for instance, in the
remarkable folio which has supplied Mr. Bullen with so much of his invaluable collection of
Old Plays. At the early period of Tottel's Miscellany it would appear that the very idea of
publication in print had hardly occurred to many writers' minds. When the book appeared, both
its main contributors, Surrey and Wyatt, had been long dead, as well as others (Sir Francis
Bryan and Anne Boleyn's unlucky brother, George Lord Rochford) who are supposed to be represented.
The short Printer's Address to the Reader gives absolutely no intelligence as to the circumstances
of the publication, the person responsible for the editing, or the authority which the editor
and printer may have had for their inclusion of different authors' work. It is only a theory,
though a sufficiently plausible one, that the editor was Nicholas Grimald, chaplain to Bishop
Thirlby of Ely, a Cambridge man who some ten years before had been incorporated at Oxford and
had been elected to a Fellowship at Merton College. In Grimald's or Grimoald's connection with
the book there was certainly something peculiar, for the first edition contains forty poems
contributed by him and signed with his name, while in the second the full name is replaced
by "N. G.," and a considerable number of his poems give way to others. More than one construction
might, no doubt, be placed on this curious fact; but hardly any construction can be placed
on it which does not in some way connect Grimald with the publication. It may be added that,
while his, Surrey's, and Wyatt's contributions are substantive and known--the numbers of separate
poems contributed being respectively forty for Surrey, the same for Grimald, and ninety-six
for Wyatt--no less than one hundred and thirty-four poems, reckoning the contents of the first
and second editions together, are attributed to "other" or "uncertain" authors. And of these,
though it is pretty positively known that certain writers did contribute to the book, only
four poems have been even conjecturally traced to particular authors. The most interesting
of these by far is the poem attributed, with that which immediately precedes it, to Lord Vaux,
and containing the verses "For age with stealing steps," known to every one from the gravedigger
in Hamlet. Nor is this the only connection of Tottel's Miscellany with Shakespere, for there
is no reasonable doubt that the "Book of Songs and Sonnets," to the absence of which Slender
so pathetically refers in The Merry Wives of Windsor, is Tottel's, which, as the first to use
the title, long retained it by right of precedence. Indeed, one of its authors, Churchyard,
who, though not in his first youth at its appearance, survived into the reign of James, quotes
it as such, and so does Drayton even later. No sonnets had been seen in England before, nor
was the whole style of the verse which it contained less novel than this particular form.

As is the case with many if not most of the authors of our period, a rather unnecessary amount
of ink has been spilt on questions very distantly connected with the question of the absolute
and relative merit of Surrey and Wyatt in English poetry. In particular, the influence of the
one poet on the other, and the consequent degree of originality to be assigned to each, have
been much discussed. A very few dates and facts will supply most of the information necessary
to enable the reader to decide this and other questions for himself. Sir Thomas Wyatt, son
of Sir Henry Wyatt of Allington, Kent, was born in 1503, entered St. John's College, Cambridge,
in 1515, became a favourite of Henry VIII., received important diplomatic appointments, and
died in 1542. Lord Henry Howard was born (as is supposed) in 1517, and became Earl of Surrey
by courtesy (he was not, the account of his judicial murder says, a lord of Parliament) at
eight years old. Very little is really known of his life, and his love for "Geraldine" was
made the basis of a series of fictions by Nash half a century after his death. He cannot have
been more than thirty when, in the Reign of Terror towards the close of Henry VIII.'s life,
he was arrested on frivolous charges, the gravest being the assumption of the royal arms, found
guilty of treason, and beheaded on Tower Hill on 19th January 1547. Thus it will be seen that
Wyatt was at Cambridge before Surrey was born, and died five years before him; to which it
need only be added that Surrey has an epitaph on Wyatt which clearly expresses the relation
of disciple to master. Yet despite this relation and the community of influences which acted
on both, their characteristics are markedly different, and each is of the greatest importance
in English poetical history.

In order to appreciate exactly what this importance is we must remember in what state Wyatt
and Surrey found the art which they practised and in which they made a new start. Speaking
roughly but with sufficient accuracy for the purpose, that state is typically exhibited in
two writers, Hawes and Skelton. The former represents the last phase of the Chaucerian school,
weakened not merely by the absence of men of great talent during more than a century, but by
the continual imitation during that period of weaker and ever weaker French models--the last
faint echoes of the Roman de la Rose and the first extravagances of the Rhétoriqueurs. Skelton,
on the other hand, with all his vigour, represents the English tendency to prosaic doggerel.
Whether Wyatt and his younger companion deliberately had recourse to Italian example in order
to avoid these two dangers it would be impossible to say. But the example was evidently before
them, and the result is certainly such an avoidance. Nevertheless both, and especially Wyatt,
had a great deal to learn. It is perfectly evident that neither had any theory of English prosody
before him. Wyatt's first sonnet displays the completest indifference to quantity, not merely
scanning "harber," "banner," and "suffer" as iambs (which might admit of some defence), but
making a rhyme of "feareth" and "appeareth," not on the penultimates, but on the mere "eth." Probably
his being thrown thus early in life into the discharge of onerous and important duties, had an important
effect in producing that firmness and maturity of judgment by which his mind was subsequently distinguished.
Some years afterwards, he gave a convincing proof of his fitness for the situation, in the vigour
with which he remonstrated against the imposition of a fresh tax
on wine, which had the effect of procuring its removal at the time,
though the necessities of government led to its being reimposed some
years after.

But his ardent mind was not confined to professional pursuits. He concurred
in the formation of an academy of sciences at Bourdeaux, and read
some papers in it on natural history; and his attention being in this
way turned to physical science, he wrote and published in the journals,
a project for a "Physical History of the Earth, Ancient and Modern."

    
          

But in no human being was more completely exemplified the famous line--

"The
proper study of mankind is man."

    
      
      
    
    
      
      Montesquieu's genius was essentially moral and political; it
    was on man himself, not the material world
    with which he was surrounded, that his thoughts
      were fixed. This strong bent soon appeared in his
      writings. He next read at the academy at Bourdeaux,
    a "Life of the Duke of Berwick," and an "Essay
    on the Policy of the Romans in Religion,"
    which was the basis of the immortal work which he afterwards composed on
the rise and fall of that extraordinary people. These desultory essays
gave no indication of the first considerable work which he published, which
was the famous Lettres Persanes.

They appeared in 1721, when he was thirty-two years of age. Their success was immediate and prodigious;
a certain indication in matters of thought, that they were not destined
to durable fame.

They fell in with the ideas and passions of the time; they were not
before it; thence their early popularity and ultimate oblivion.

The work was published anonymously; for the keen but delicate satire on French manners and vices which
it contained, might have endangered the author, and as it was he had no
small difficulty, when it was known he was the writer, in escaping
from its effects.

It consists in a series of letters from an imaginary character, Usbeck,
a Persian traveller, detailing the vices, manners, and customs of
the French metropolis.

The ingenuity, sarcasm, and truth, which that once celebrated production contains, must not make us
shut our eyes to its glaring defects; the vices of the age, as they
mainly contributed to its early popularity, have been the chief cause
of its subsequent decline.

It contains many passages improperly warm and voluptuous, and some
which, under the mask of attacks on the Jesuits, had the appearance,
at least, of being levelled at religion itself.

No work, at that period, could attract attention in France which was not disfigured by these blemishes.
Even the great mind of Montesquieu, in its first essay before the
public, did not escape the contagion of the age.

But, erelong, the genius of this profound thinker was devoted to more congenial
and worthy objects. In 1726, he sold his office of president of the
parliament of Bourdeaux, partly in order to escape from the toils of
legal pursuit and judicial business, which, in that mercantile and
rising community, was attended with great labour; partly in order
to be enabled to travel, and study the institutions and character
of different nations--a pursuit of which he was passionately fond, and
which, without doubt, had a powerful effect in giving him that vast
command of detached facts in political science, and that liberal view
of institutions, habits, and manners, differing in some degree from
his own, by which his philosophical writings are so eminently distinguished.

    
          

    
    
    
    
    Here, as in the biography of almost all other
    really great men, it is found, that some circumstances
    apparently trivial or accidental have given a permanent
    bent to their mind; have stored it with the appropriate
    knowledge, and turned it, as it were, into the
    allotted sphere, and contributed to form the matrix in which
    original thought was formed, and new truth communicated
    by Providence to mankind. In the course of his
    travels, which lasted several years, he visited successively Austria,
Hungary, Italy, Switzerland, the Rhine, Flanders, Holland, and England--in
the latter of which he lived two years.
    

During these varied travels, he made notes on all the countries which
he visited, which contributed largely to the great stock of political
information which he possessed.

These notes are still extant; but, unfortunately, not in such a state of maturity
as to admit of publication.

    

On his return to France, which took place in 1732, he retired to his
native chateau of La Brede, and commenced in good earnest the great
business of his life.

    

Great and original as this work--the most perfect of all his compositions--was,
it did not give vent to the whole ideas which filled his capacious
mind.

      
    
      Rome, great as it was, was but a single state; it was
    the comparison with other states, the development of the general principles
      which run through the jurisprudence and institutions
    of all nations, which occupied
      
    his thoughts.

The success which attended his essay on the institutions and progress
of a single people, encouraged him to enlarge his views and extend his
labours. He came to embrace the whole known world, civilized and
uncivilized, in his plan; and after fourteen years of assiduous labours
and toil, the immortal "Spirit of Laws" appeared.

The history of Montesquieu's mind, during the progress of this great work, is singularly curious
and interesting.

    At times he wrote to his friends that his great work
    advanced "à pas de géant;" at others, he was depressed
    
    by the slow progress which it made, and overwhelmed by the
    prodigious mass of materials which required to be
    worked into its composition. So distrustful was
    he of its success, even after the vast labour he
    had employed in its composition, that he sent
    his manuscript before publication to a friend on whose judgment
    
    he could rely--Helvetius. That friend, notwithstanding
    all his penetration, was so mistaken in his
    reckoning, that he conceived the most serious disquietude
    as to the ruin of Montesquieu's reputation by the publication of such a work.
Such was his alarm that he did not venture to write to the author
on the subject, but gave the manuscript to another critic, Saurin,
the author of a work entitled Spartacus, long since extinct, who passed
the same judgment upon it.

Both concurred in thinking that the reputation of Montesquieu would be entirely
ruined by the publication of the new manuscript; the brilliant author
of the semi-voluptuous, semi-infidel Lettres Persanes, would sink
into a mere Legist, a dull commentator on pandects and statutes, if
he published the Esprit des Loix, "That," said Helvetius, "is what
afflicts me for him, and for humanity, which he was so well qualified
to have served."

It was agreed between them that Helvetius should write to Montesquieu
to give him an account of their joint opinion, that he should not
give the work to the world in its present state.

Saurin, with some reason, was afraid that Montesquieu would be hurt at their communication; but
Helvetius wrote to him--"Be not uneasy; he is not hurt at our advice; he
loves frankness in his friends.

    
    
He is willing to bear with discussions, but answers only by sallies,
and rarely changes his opinions. I have not given him ours from any
idea that he would either change his conduct or modify his preconceived
ideas, but from a sense of the duty of sincerity cost what it will,
with friends.

When the light of truth shall have dispelled the illusions of self-love,
he will at least not be able to reproach us with having been less
indulgent than the public."

Montesquieu, however, was not discouraged.

He sent his manuscript to the press with hardly any alteration, and
took for his motto, Prolem sine matre creatam;[1] in allusion to the
originality of his conception, and the total want of any previous
model on which it had been formed.

The work appeared in the month of July 1748; and its success, so far as the sale went, was prodigious.
Before two years had elapsed, it had gone through twenty-two editions,
and been translated into most of the European languages.

This early success, rare in works of profound and original thought, showed, that though it was
in advance of the age, it was but a little in advance; and that it had struck a key which was ready
to vibrate in the national mind. Like all distinguished works, if it was much read and admired
by some, it was as keenly criticized and cut to pieces by others. Madame de Deffand said it was
not the Esprit des Loix he had written, but Esprit sur les Loix. This expression made a great noise;
it had a certain degree of truth, just enough, when coupled with epigrammatic brevity, to make the
fortune of the sayer. Encouraged by its success, the enemies of original genius, ever ready to assail it, united
their forces, and Montesquieu was soon the object of repeated and
envenomed attacks.

It was said, that to establish certain favourite theories, he availed
himself of the testimony of travellers obscure and of doubtful credit;
that he leapt too rapidly from particulars to general conclusions;
that he ascribed to the influence of climate and physical laws what
was in fact the result of moral or political causes; that he had split
the same subject into small chapters, so confusedly arranged that
there was no order or system in the work; that it was still incomplete,
and wanted the master-hand which was to put it together; and that
it resembled the detached pieces of a mosaic pavement, each of which
is fair or brilliant in itself, but which have no meaning or expression
till disposed by the taste and skill of the artist.

There was some truth in all these criticisms; it is rare that it is otherwise with the reproaches
made against a work of original thought. Envy generally discovers
a blot to hit.

Malignity is seldom at a loss for some blemish to point out. It is by exaggerating slight defects,
and preserving silence on great merits, that literary jealousy ever
tries to work out its wretched spite.

The wisdom of an author is not to resent or overlook, but in silence
to profit by such sallies; converting thus the industry and envy of his
enemies into a source of advantage to himself.

Montesquieu, in pursuance of these principles, passed over in silence
the malignant attacks of a herd of critics, whose works are now buried
in the charnel-house of time, but who strove with all the fury of
envy and disappointment to extinguish his rising fame.

When pressed by some of his friends to answer some of these attacks, he replied--"It is unnecessary; I am sufficiently
avenged on some by the neglect of the public, on others by its indignation."
The only instance in which he deviated from this wise resolution
was in replying to the attacks of an anonymous critic, who, in a
Journal entitled the Nouvelles Ecclesiastiques, had represented him as an
atheist.

In his Lettres Persanes, though he had never assailed the great principles of his religion,
he had, in his sallies against the Jesuits, gone far to warrant the belief that he was inclined
to do so; and had already done enough in the estimation of the tyrannical and bigoted ecclesiastics who at
that period ruled the Church of France, to warrant his being included
in the class of infidel writers.

But
his mind, chastened by years, enlightened by travelling and reflection, had come to cast off these
prejudices of his age and country, the necessary result of the Romish tyranny by which it had been
oppressed, but unworthy of an intellect of such grasp and candour. In the Protestant countries of Europe,
particularly Holland and England, he had seen the working of Christianity detached from the rigid
despotism by which the Church of Rome fetters belief, and the well-conceived appliances by which it stimulates
imagination, and opens a refuge for frailty. Impressed with the new ideas thus awakened in his
mind, he had in his Esprit des Loix pronounced a studious and sincere eulogium on Christianity;
recommending it, not only as the most perfect of all systems of religious belief, but as the only secure
basis of social order and improvement. It was material to correct the impression, partly just, partly
erroneous, which his earlier and more indiscreet writings had produced; and with this view he wrote and published
his Defence de l' Esprit des Loix. This little piece is a model of just and candid reasoning,
accompanied with a refined and delicate vein of ridicule, which disarmed opposition without giving
ground for resentment. He congratulated himself on the fine satire with which he had overthrown his
enemies.--"What pleases me in my Defence, is not so much," said he, "to have floored the Ecclesiastics,
as to have let them fall so gently."

Posterity will find a more valuable charm in this little production;
it is, that the author in it has unconsciously painted himself.

His contemporaries have recorded, that in reading it they could believe they heard the writer speak;
and this proves that his talents in conversation had been equal to those he displayed in
writing--a combination very rare in persons of the highest class
in literature.

The fame of Montesquieu, great as it was in his own country, was even greater in foreign ones. In Great
Britain in particular, the Esprit des Loix early acquired a prodigious reputation. It was read and
admired by all persons of thought and education. This was partly the
consequence of England being so much in advance of France in the career
of liberty--alike in matters civil and ecclesiastical. The new ideas,
hardy thoughts, and original conceptions of the great work met with a
ready reception, and cordial admiration, in the land of freedom and
the Reformation--in the country where meditation had so long been
turned to political subjects, contemplation to religious truth.

But another cause of lasting influence also contributed to the same
effect. Original genius is ever more readily and willingly admired in
foreign states than its own: a prophet has no honour in his own country.

He interferes too much with existing influences or reputations. To foreigners,
he is more remote--more like a dead man. Human vanity is less hurt
by his elevation.

The latter years of Montesquieu's life were spent almost entirely in retirement at his paternal chateau of La
Brede, varied occasionally by visits to the great world at Paris.

He was occupied in agriculture and gardening--tenacious of his seignorial
rights, but indulgent to the last degree to his tenantry, by whom he was
adored. Never was exemplified in a more remarkable manner the soothing
influence of the recollections of a well-spent life on the felicity
of its later years, or the fountains of happiness which may be opened
in the breast itself from the calm serenity of conscious power and
great achievement.

He conversed much, with the farmers and peasants on his estate, whose
houses he frequently entered, and whose convivialities, on occasion of
a marriage or a birth, he seldom failed to attend.

He often preferred
their conversation to that of persons their superiors in rank or information--"for,"
said he, "they are not learned enough to enter into argument; they
only tell you what they know, which frequently you do not know yourself."

Though
he lived with the great when in Paris, partly from necessity, partly
from inclination, yet their society was noways necessary to his happiness.

He
flew as soon as he could from their brilliant assemblies to the retirement
of his estate, where he found with joy, philosophy, books, and repose.


    "Here puled the babes, and here the maids unwed
    With folded hands their sorry chance bewailed,
    Here wept the guiltless slain, and lovers dead,
    That slew themselves when nothing else availed;
    A thousand sorts of sorrows here, that wailed
      With sighs and tears, sobs, shrieks, and all yfere
      That oh, alas! it was a hell to hear.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lo here, quoth Sorrow, princes of renown,
    That whilom sat on top of fortune's wheel,
    Now laid full low; like wretches whirled down,
    Ev'n with one frown, that stayed but with a smile;
    And now behold the thing that thou, erewhile,
      Saw only in thought: and what thou now shalt hear,
      Recount the same to kesar, king, and peer."[8]

[8] The precedent descriptions of Sorrow herself, of Misery, and of Old Age, are even finer
than the above, which, however, I have preferred for three reasons. First, it has been less
often quoted; secondly, its subject is a kind of commonplace, and, therefore, shows the poet's
strength of handling; thirdly, because of the singular and characteristic majesty of the opening
lines.

It is perhaps well, in an early passage of a book which will have much to do with the criticism
of poetry, to dwell a little on what seems to the critic to be the root of that matter. In
the first place, I must entirely differ with those persons who have sought to create an independent
prosody for English verse under the head of "beats" or "accents" or something of that sort.
Every English metre since Chaucer at least can be scanned, within the proper limits, according
to the strictest rules of classical prosody: and while all good English metre comes out scatheless
from the application of those rules, nothing exhibits the badness of bad English metre so well
as that application. It is, alongside of their great merits, the distinguishing fault of Wyatt
eminently, of Surrey to a less degree, and of all the new school up to Spenser more or less,
that they neglect the quantity test too freely; it is the merit of Sackville that, holding
on in this respect to the good school of Chaucer, he observes it. You will find no "jawbreakers"
in Sackville, no attempts to adjust English words on a Procrustean bed of independent quantification.
He has not indeed the manifold music of Spenser--it would be unreasonable to expect that he
should have it. But his stanzas, as the foregoing examples will show, are of remarkable melody,
and they have about them a command, a completeness of accomplishment within the writer's intentions,
which is very noteworthy in so young a man. The extraordinary richness and stateliness of the
measure has escaped no critic. There is indeed a certain one-sidedness about it, and a devil's
advocate might urge that a long poem couched in verse (let alone the subject) of such unbroken
gloom would be intolerable. But Sackville did not write a long poem, and his complete command
within his limits of the effect at which he evidently aimed is most remarkable.

The second thing to note about the poem is the extraordinary freshness and truth of its imagery.
From a young poet we always expect second-hand presentations of nature, and in Sackville's
day second-hand presentation of nature had been elevated to the rank of a science. Here the
new school--Surrey, Wyatt, and their followers--even if he had studied them, could have given
him little or no help, for great as are the merits of Tottel's Miscellany, no one would go
to it for representations of nature. Among his predecessors in his own style he had to go back
to Chaucer (putting the Scotch school out of the question) before he could find anything original.
Yet it may be questioned whether the sketches of external scenery in these brief essays of
his, or the embodiments of internal thought in the pictures of Sorrow and the other allegorical
wights, are most striking. It is perfectly clear that Thomas Sackville had, in the first place,
a poetical eye to see, within as well as without, the objects of poetical presentment; in the
second place, a poetical vocabulary in which to clothe the results of his seeing; and in the
third place, a poetical ear by aid of which to arrange his language in the musical co-ordination
necessary to poetry. Wyatt had been too much to seek in the last; Surrey had not been very
obviously furnished with the first; and all three were not to be possessed by any one else
till Edmund Spenser arose to put Sackville's lessons in practice on a wider scale, and with
a less monotonous lyre. It is possible that Sackville's claims in drama may have been exaggerated--they
have of late years rather been undervalued: but his claims in poetry proper can only be overlooked
by those who decline to consider the most important part of poetry. In the subject of even
his part of The Mirror there is nothing new: there is only a following of Chaucer, and Gower,
and Occleve, and Lydgate, and Hawes, and many others. But in the handling there is one novelty
which makes all others of no effect or interest. It is the novelty of a new poetry.

It has already been remarked that these two important books were not immediately followed by
any others in poetry corresponding to their importance. The poetry of the first half of Elizabeth's
reign is as mediocre as the poetry of the last half of her reign is magnificent. Although it
had taken some hints from Wyatt and Surrey it had not taken the best; and the inexplicable
devotion of most of the versifiers of the time to the doggerel metres already referred to seems
to have prevented them from cultivating anything better. Yet the pains which were spent upon
translation during this time were considerable, and undoubtedly had much to do with strengthening
and improving the language. The formal part of poetry became for the first time a subject of
study resulting in the Instructions of Gascoigne, and in the noteworthy critical works which
will be mentioned in the next chapter; while the popularity of poetical miscellanies showed
the audience that existed for verse. The translators and the miscellanists will each call for
some brief notice; but first it is necessary to mention some individual, and in their way,
original writers who, though not possessing merit at all equal to that of Wyatt, Surrey, and
Sackville, yet deserve to be singled from the crowd. These are Gascoigne, Churchyard, Turberville,
Googe, and Tusser.

The poetaster and literary hack, Whetstone, who wrote a poetical memoir of George Gascoigne
after his death, entitles it a remembrance of "the well employed life and godly end" of his
hero. It is not necessary to dispute that Gascoigne's end was godly; but except for the fact
that he was for some years a diligent and not unmeritorious writer, it is not so certain that
his life was well employed. At any rate he does not seem to have thought so himself. The date
of his birth has been put as early as 1525 and as late as 1536: he certainly died in 1577.
His father, a knight of good family and estate in Essex, disinherited him; but he was educated
at Cambridge, if not at both universities, was twice elected to Parliament, travelled and fought
abroad, and took part in the famous festival at Kenilworth. His work is, as has been said,
considerable, and is remarkable for the number of first attempts in English which it contains.
It has at least been claimed for him (though careful students of literary history know that
these attributions are always rather hazardous) that he wrote the first English prose comedy
(The Supposes, a version of Ariosto), the first regular verse satire (The Steel Glass), the
first prose tale (a version from Bandello), the first translation from Greek tragedy (Jocasta),
and the first critical essay (the above-mentioned Notes of Instruction). Most of these things,
it will be seen, were merely adaptations of foreign originals; but they certainly make up a
remarkable budget for one man. In addition to them, and to a good number of shorter and miscellaneous
poems, must be mentioned the Glass of Government (a kind of morality or serious comedy, moulded,
it would seem, on German originals), and the rather prettily, if fantastically termed Flowers,
Herbs, and Weeds. Gascoigne has a very fair command of metre: he is not a great sinner in the
childish alliteration which, surviving from the older English poetry, helps to convert so much
of his contemporaries' work into doggerel. The pretty "Lullaby of a Lover," and "Gascoigne's
Good Morrow" may be mentioned, and part of one of them may be quoted, as a fair specimen of
his work, which is always tolerable if never first-rate.

    "Sing lullaby, as women do,
    Wherewith they bring their babes to rest,
    And lullaby can I sing too,
    As womanly as can the best.
    With lullaby they still the child;
    And if I be not much beguiled,
    Full many wanton babes have I
    Which must be stilled with lullaby.

    "First lullaby, my youthful years.
    It is now time to go to bed,
    For crooked age and hoary hairs
    Have won the hav'n within my head:
    With lullaby then, youth, be still,
    With lullaby content thy will,
    Since courage quails and comes behind,
    Go sleep and so beguile thy mind.

    "Next lullaby, my gazing eyes,
    Which wanton were to glance apace,
    For every glass may now suffice
    To show the furrows in my face.
    With lullaby then wink awhile,
    With lullaby your looks beguile;
    Let no fair face, nor beauty bright,
    Entice you oft with vain delight.

    "And lullaby, my wanton will,
    Let reason(s) rule now rein thy thought,
    Since all too late I find by skill
    How dear I have thy fancies bought:
    With lullaby now take thine ease,
    With lullaby thy doubts appease,
    For trust to this, if thou be still
    My body shall obey thy will."

Thomas Churchyard was an inferior sort of Gascoigne, who led a much longer if less eventful
life. He was about the Court for the greater part of the century, and had a habit of calling
his little books, which were numerous, and written both in verse and prose, by alliterative
titles playing on his own name, such as Churchyard's Chips, Churchyard's Choice, and so forth.
He was a person of no great literary power, and chiefly noteworthy because of his long life
after contributing to Tottel's Miscellany, which makes him a link between the old literature
and the new.

The literary interests and tentative character of the time, together with its absence of original
genius, and the constant symptoms of not having "found its way," are also very noteworthy in
George Turberville and Barnabe Googe, who were friends and verse writers of not dissimilar
character. Turberville, of whom not much is known, was a Dorsetshire man of good family, and
was educated at Winchester and Oxford. His birth and death dates are both extremely uncertain.
Besides a book on Falconry and numerous translations (to which, like all the men of his school
and day, he was much addicted), he wrote a good many occasional poems, trying even blank verse.
Barnabe Googe, a Lincolnshire man, and a member of both universities, appears to have been
born in 1540, was employed in Ireland, and died in 1594. He was kin to the Cecils, and Mr.
Arber has recovered some rather interesting details about his love affairs, in which he was
assisted by Lord Burghley. He, too, was an indefatigable translator, and wrote some original
poems. Both poets affected the combination of Alexandrine and fourteener (split up or not,
as the printer chose, into six, six, eight, six), the popularity of which has been noted, and
both succumbed too often to its capacities of doggerel. Turberville's best work is the following
song in a pretty metre well kept up:--

    "The green that you did wish me wear
                Aye for your love,
    And on my helm a branch to bear
                Not to remove,
    Was ever you to have in mind
    Whom Cupid hath my feire assigned.

    "As I in this have done your will
                And mind to do,
    So I request you to fulfil
                My fancy too;
    A green and loving heart to have,
    And this is all that I do crave.

    "For if your flowering heart should change
                His colour green,
    Or you at length a lady strange
                Of me be seen,
    Then will my branch against his use
    His colour change for your refuse.[9]

    "As winter's force cannot deface
                This branch his hue,
    So let no change of love disgrace
                Your friendship true;
    You were mine own, and so be still,
    So shall we live and love our fill.

    "Then I may think myself to be
                Well recompensed,
    For wearing of the tree that is
                So well defensed
    Against all weather that doth fall
    When wayward winter spits his gall.

    "And when we meet, to try me true,
                Look on my head,
    And I will crave an oath of you
                Whe'r[10] Faith be fled;
    So shall we both answered be,
    Both I of you, and you of me."

[9] Refusal.

[10] Short for "whether."

The most considerable and the most interesting part of Googe's work is a set of eight eclogues
which may not have been without influence on The Shepherd's Calendar, and a poem of some length
entitled Cupido Conquered, which Spenser may also have seen. Googe has more sustained power
than Turberville, but is much inferior to him in command of metre and in lyrical swing. In
him, or at least in his printer, the mania for cutting up long verses reaches its height, and
his very decasyllables are found arranged in the strange fashion of four and six as thus:--

    "Good aged Bale:
    That with thy hoary hairs
    Dost still persist
    To turn the painful book,
    O happy man,
    That hast obtained such years,
    And leav'st not yet
    On papers pale to look.
    Give over now
    To beat thy wearied brain,
    And rest thy pen,
    That long hath laboured sore."

Thomas Tusser (1524?-1580) has often been regarded as merely a writer of doggerel, which is
assuredly not lacking in his Hundred (later Five Hundred) Points of Husbandry (1557-1573).
But he has some piquancy of phrase, and is particularly noticeable for the variety, and to
a certain extent the accomplishment, of his prosodic experiments--a point of much importance
for the time.

To these five, of whom some substantive notice has been given, many shadowy names might be
added if the catalogue were of any use: such as those of Kinwelmersh, Whetstone, Phaer, Neville,
Blundeston, Edwards, Golding, and many others. They seem to have been for the most part personally
acquainted with one another; the literary energies of England being almost confined to the
universities and the Inns of Court, so that most of those who devoted themselves to literature
came into contact and formed what is sometimes called a clique. They were all studiously and
rather indiscriminately given to translation (the body of foreign work, ancient and modern,
which was turned into English during this quarter of a century being very large indeed), and
all or many of them were contributors of commendatory verses to each other's work and of pieces
of different descriptions to the poetical miscellanies of the time. Of these miscellanies and
of the chief translations from the classics some little notice may be taken because of the
great part which both played in the poetical education of England. It has been said that almost
all the original poets were also translators. Thus Googe Englished, among other things, the
Zodiacus Vitæ of Marcellus Palingenius, the Regnum Papisticum of Kirchmayer, the Four Books
of Husbandry of Conrad Heresbach, and the Proverbs of the Marquis of Santillana; but some of
the translators were not distinguished by any original work. Thus Jasper Heywood, followed
by Neville above mentioned, by Studley, and others, translated between 1560 and 1580 those
tragedies of Seneca which had such a vast influence on foreign literature and, fortunately,
so small an influence on English. Arthur Golding gave in 1567 a version, by no means destitute
of merit, of the Metamorphoses which had a great influence on English poetry. We have already
mentioned Surrey's blank-verse translation of Virgil. This was followed up, in 1555-60, by
Thomas Phaer, who, like most of the persons mentioned in this paragraph, used the fourteener,
broken up or not, as accident or the necessities of the printer brought it about.

It was beyond doubt this abundant translation, and perhaps also the manifest deficiencies of
the fourteener thus used, which brought about at the close of the present period and the beginning
of the next the extraordinary attempt to reproduce classical metres in English verse, which
for a time seduced even Spenser, which was not a little countenanced by most of the critical
writers of the period, which led Gabriel Harvey and others into such absurdities, and which
was scarcely slain even by Daniel's famous and capital Defence of Rhyme. The discussion of
this absurd attempt (for which rules, not now extant, came from Drant of Cambridge) in the
correspondence of Spenser and Harvey, and the sensible fashion in which Nash laughed at it,
are among the best known things in the gossiping history of English Letters. But the coxcombry
of Harvey and the felicitous impertinence of Nash have sometimes diverted attention from the
actual state of the case. William Webbe (a very sober-minded person with taste enough to admire
the "new poet," as he calls Spenser) makes elaborate attempts not merely at hexameters, which,
though only a curiosity, are a possible curiosity in English, but at Sapphics which could never
(except as burlesque) be tolerable. Sidney, Spenser, and others gave serious heed to the scheme
of substituting classical metres without rhyme for indigenous metres with rhyme. And unless
the two causes which brought this about are constantly kept in mind, the reason of it will
not be understood. It was undoubtedly the weakness of contemporary English verse which reinforced
the general Renaissance admiration for the classics; nor must it be forgotten that Wyatt takes,
in vernacular metres and with rhyme, nearly as great liberties with the intonation and prosody
of the language as any of the classicists in their unlucky hexameters and elegiacs. The majesty
and grace of the learned tongues, contrasting with the poverty of their own language, impressed,
and to a great extent rightly impressed, the early Elizabethans, so that they naturally enough
cast about for any means to improve the one, and hesitated at any peculiarity which was not
found in the other. It was unpardonable in Milton to sneer at rhyme after the fifty years of
magnificent production which had put English on a level with Greek and above Latin as a literary
instrument. But for Harvey and Spenser, Sidney and Webbe, with those fifty years still to come,
the state of the case was very different.

The translation mania and the classicising mania together led to the production of perhaps
the most absurd book in all literature--a book which deserves extended notice here, partly
because it has only recently become accessible to the general reader in its original form,
and partly because it is, though a caricature, yet a very instructive caricature of the tendencies
and literary ideas of the time. This is Richard Stanyhurst's translation of the first four
books of the Æneid, first printed at Leyden in the summer of 1582, and reprinted in London
a year later. This wonderful book (in which the spelling is only less marvellous than the phraseology
and verse) shows more than anything else the active throes which English literature was undergoing,
and though the result was but a false birth it is none the less interesting.

Stanyhurst was not, as might be hastily imagined, a person of insufficient culture or insufficient
brains. He was an Irish Roman Catholic gentleman, brother-in-law to Lord Dunsany, and uncle
to Archbishop Usher, and though he was author of the Irish part of Holinshed's History, he
has always been regarded by the madder sort of Hibernians as a traitor to the nation. His father
was Recorder of Dublin, and he himself, having been born about 1547, was educated at University
College, Oxford, and went thence, if not to the Inns of Court, at any rate to those of Chancery,
and became a student of Furnival's Inn. He died at Brussels in 1618. Here is an example of
his prose, the latter part of which is profitable for matter as well as for form:--

     "How beyt[11] I haue heere haulf a guesh, that two sorts of
     carpers wyl seeme too spurne at this myne enterprise. Thee one
     vtterlie ignorant, the oother meanlye letterd. Thee ignorant wyl
     imagin, that thee passage was nothing craggye, in as much as M.
     Phaere hath broken thee ice before me: Thee meaner clarcks wyl
     suppose my trauail in theese heroical verses too carrye no great
     difficultie, in that yt lay in my choice too make what word I
     would short or long, hauing no English writer beefore mee in this
     kind of poëtrye with whose squire I should leauel my syllables.

[11] This and the next extract are given literatim to show Stanyhurst's marvellous spelling.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Haue not theese men made a fayre speake? If they had put in
     Mightye Joue, and gods in thee plural number, and Venus
     with Cupide thee blynd Boy, al had beene in thee nick, thee
     rythme had been of a right stamp. For a few such stiches boch vp
     oure newe fashion makers. Prouyded not wythstanding alwayes that
     Artaxerxes, al be yt hee bee spurgalde, beeing so much gallop,
     bee placed in thee dedicatory epistle receauing a cuppe of water
     of a swayne, or elles al is not wurth a beane. Good God what a
     frye of wooden rythmours dooth swarme in stacioners shops, who
     neauer enstructed in any grammar schoole, not atayning too thee
     paaringes of thee Latin or Greeke tongue, yeet like blind bayards
     rush on forward, fostring theyre vayne conceits wyth such
     ouerweening silly follyes, as they reck not too bee condemned of
     thee learned for ignorant, so they bee commended of thee ignorant
     for learned. Thee reddyest way, therefore, too flap theese
     droanes from the sweete senting hiues of Poëtrye, is for thee
     learned too applye theym selues wholye (yf they be delighted wyth
     that veyne) too thee true making of verses in such wise as thee
     Greekes and Latins, thee fathurs of knowledge, haue doone;
     and too leaue too theese doltish coystrels theyre rude rythming
     and balducktoom ballads."

Given a person capable of this lingo, given the prevalent mania for English hexameters, and
even what follows may not seem too impossible.

    "This sayd, with darcksoom night shade quite clowdye she vannisht. FOR MUSIC.

    
    
    
    
    
    (For the Mirror.)
    
    
    Land of the myrtle and the vine, The sunny citron-tree, With
    heart upon the waves I give My latest look to thee.

       

Thy glorious scenes of vale and hill With joy I now resign, And seek
a more congenial land, Where Freedom will be mine.

    

       

    

Farewell! thou hast the iron sway Of bigots and of slaves, But mine shall
be a chainless heart Upon the dark blue waves.

For thee our sires have fought and died, For thee their blood have
given, When tyrants o'er the trampled field Like thunder-clouds were
driven.

And has the purple tide in vain, From hill and vale been poured, Or
do the hopes of Freedom sleep With mighty Mina's sword?

Oh! no--the trumpet-voice of war, Shall proudly sound again, And millions
shall obey its call, And break their chartered chain!

Till then, my native hearth and home I'll joyfully resign; Farewell! thou song-enchanted land Of
myrtle and of vine.

Deal. G.K.C.

* * * * *

THE DEATH-BEDS OF GREAT MEN.

(For the Mirror.)

If there are any remarks which deserve to be recorded for the benefit of mankind, they are those
which have been expressed on a dying bed, when, unfettered by prejudice
or passion, Truth shines forth in her real colours.

Sir John Hawkins has recorded of Dr. Johnson, that when suffering under that
disease which ended in his dissolution, he addressed his friends
in the following words:--"You see the state I am in, conflicting with
bodily pain and mental distraction.

While you are in health and strength, labour to do good, and avoid evil, if ever you wish to escape
the distress that oppresses me."

When Lord Lyttleton was on his death-bed, his daughter, Lady Valentia,
and her husband, came to see him.

He gave them his solemn benediction, adding--"Be good, be virtuous, my lord;
you must come to this."

The triumphant death of Addison will be remembered with feelings of pleasure
by all.

Having sent for the young Earl of Warwick, he affectionately pressed his
hand, saying--"See in what peace a Christian can die!"

The father of William Penn was opposed to his son's religious principles;
but finding that he acted with sincerity, was at last reconciled.

When dying, he adjured him to do nothing contrary to his conscience--"So,"
said he, "you will keep peace within, which will be a comfort in
the day of trouble."

Locke, the day before his death, addressed Lady Masham, who was sitting
by his bedside, exhorting her to regard this world only as a state
of preparation for a better.

He added, that he had lived long enough, and expressed his gratitude
to God for the happiness that had fallen to his lot.

Tillotson, when dying, thanked his Maker that he felt his conscience at ease,
and that he had nothing further to do but to await the will of Heaven.

Sir
Walter Raleigh behaved on the scaffold with the greatest composure. Having vindicated
his conduct in an eloquent speech, he felt the edge of the axe, observing
with a smile--"It is a sharp medicine, but a sure remedy, for all
woes."

Being asked which way he would lay himself on the block, he replied--"So
the heart be right, it is no matter which way the head lies."

The author of Hervey's Meditations, when on his sick bed, observed
that his time had been too much occupied in reading the historians,
orators, and poets of ancient and modern times; and that were he to
renew his studies, he would devote his attention to the Scriptures.

The last words which the eminent physician Haller addressed to his
medical attendant expressed the calm serenity of his mind.

"My friend," said he, laying his hand on his pulse, "the artery no longer beats."

M. De La Harpe, one of the first literary characters of the last century, who for many years laboured
to spread the principles of the French philosophy, but afterwards became a most strenuous defender of
Christianity, on the evening preceding his death was visited by a
friend.

He was listening to the Prayers for the Sick; as soon as they were concluded, he stretched forth his
hand and said--"I am grateful to Divine mercy, for having left me
sufficient recollection to feel how consoling these prayers are to
the dying."

Cardinal Wolsey, when dying, by slow progress and short journeys,
reached Leicester Abbey.

He was received with the greatest respect.

His only observation was, "Father Abbot, I am come to lay my bones
among you."

He died three days after, with, great composure and fortitude.

Melancthon, a few days before his death, although extremely debilitated,
delivered his usual lecture.

At the termination of it, he said, impressively--"I am a dying man,
and these are the three subjects for intercession with God, which
I leave to my children and their little ones--that they may form part
of his church, and worship him aright--that they may be one in him,
and live in harmony with each other--and that they may be fellow-heirs
of eternal life."

The day before his death, he addressed some present--"God bestows
talents on our youth, do you see that they use them aright."

While
dying, his friends discerned a slight motion of the countenance,
which was peculiar to him when deeply affected by religious joy.

W.

*
* * * *

THE NOVELIST.

OSMYN AND ZAMBRI.

A Persian Tale. From the French.

(From a Correspondent.)

A worthy old Persian having arrived at the
end of an irreproachable life, experienced in his last moments the
greatest uneasiness for the fate of his two sons, whom he was about
to leave without fortune, without a livelihood, and without a prospect.

     
     
     The elder called Osmyn, was twenty years of age, and the
     
     younger, eighteen, bore the name of Zambri.

     As the old man drew near his last hour, he thought much less of his own
     sufferings than of the fate of his children, when his ear was agreeably
     struck with a soft and
     
     melodious voice, which said to him, "Fear nothing,
     
     old man, I will watch over your children; die in peace as thou hast lived.
     I bring a present for each of your sons; let them make good use of it, and
     one day perhaps they may be re-united, and live in happiness."

At these words a balsamic odour spread itself in the cottage, and a bright light discovered to the view
of the astonished Persian, the features of a young man, whose expressive countenance had in it something
celestial. It was a beneficent genius, who after having deposited his presents on the bed of the old
man, vanished like lightning. The old man called his two sons, they ran eagerly towards him with a
light, and approached the bed of their father, who related to them the visit he had been honoured
with, and showed them the presents of the genius. On one side was a small
box covered with brilliant spangles; on the other a sheet of paper carefully
sealed. "Come Osmyn," said the old man, "you are the eldest, it is for
you to choose."

Osmyn attracted by the richness of the box, chose it with eagerness, and
poor Zambri was obliged to be contented with the humble envelope.

The old man embraced them, blessed them, and died as one resigning himself to the arms of hope. After
having wept sincerely the death of so good a father, and having rendered
the last offices to his remains, the two brothers were anxious to
know what aid they should find in the presents of the genius.

Osmyn opened his little box and found it filled with pastilles of
divers forms and colours.

He was
almost tempted to laugh at the meanness of such a gift, when he perceived these words written on the
lid of the box--"Each time that thou eatest one of these pastilles, thine imagination will bring forth
a poem perfect in all its parts, sublime and delicate in its details,
such in short as will surpass the ablest works of the best Persian
poets."

     
     
     
     
     Osmyn did not want vanity; the possession of so fine a secret
     failed not to turn his young brain, and a hundred illusions of fortune and glory
     presented themselves
     
     at once to his imagination.
     
     
     
     From the value of the present given by the genius to his brother, Zambri
     doubted not that his paper contained also some marvellous secret. He opened
     it and read with as much surprise as sorrow--"A
     
     new Receipt for preparing Sherbet."
     
     Some lines pointed out the method of composing a liquor, of which
     one drop only being infused in a bowl of Sherbet, would give it a taste
     and perfume
     
     hitherto unknown to the most voluptuous Asiatics.
     
Osmyn was overjoyed, and Zambri was in despair; Osmyn wished not to quit
his brother, but the orders of the genius were imperative. The two brothers
embraced each other tenderly, shed tears, and separated.

       The eldest took the road to Bagdad, where all the learned, and all
the poets of Asia were assembled to attend the court of the Caliph.

     
     
     
     
     As to poor Zambri, he quitted the cottage of his father, carrying
     nothing with him but the humble receipt for preparing Sherbet, and leaving
     to chance the direction of his course.

     
     Before his arrival at Bagdad,
     
     Osmyn had already eaten half-a-dozen
     
     of the pastilles, and consequently carried with him half-a-dozen poems,
     beside which were to fade the productions of the greatest
     
     Eastern poets. But he soon found that pretenders to
     
     talent often succeed better than those who really possess it. He felt
the necessity of connecting himself with literary men, and men of
the world; but he only found them occupied with their business, their
pleasures, or their own pretensions.
     

Under what title could he present himself? Under that of a poet? The court and the city overflowed
with them; they had already filled every avenue. To consult his fellows would be to consult
his rivals; to ask their praises would be to ask a miser for his treasures. Besides, so many books
appeared, that people did not care to read. However, Osmyn's works
were published, but they were not even noticed in the multitude of similar
productions.

After having vegetated four or five years at Bagdad, without obtaining
anything but weak encouragement given by wise men, (who are without
influence because they are wise,) poor Osmyn began to lose the brilliant
hopes that formerly had dazzled him.

However, by dint of eating the pastilles, he at last attracted some notice. If it requires time
for genius to emerge from obscurity, no sooner is it known than recompense is made for slow injustice.
It is sought after not for itself, but for the sake of vanity.

Envy often avails itself of it as a fit instrument subservient to its own purposes. Soon, in fact,
the works of Osmyn only were spoken of, and after languishing a long
time unnoticed, he saw himself at once raised to the pinnacle, without
having passed the steps which lead from misery to fortune, from obscurity
to glory.

The Caliph desired to see so great a genius, and to possess him at his
court.

Osmyn was
overwhelmed with favours; he sung the praises of the Caliph with a delicacy that other poets were
far from being able to imitate.

The Caliph admired delicate praise the more because it is rare at court.

So
much merit and favour besides, soon created the jealousy of other
poets, and likewise of the courtiers.

Even those, who had showed themselves the most enthusiastic admirers
of Osmyn's talents, feared to see themselves eclipsed by this new comer,
and resolved to destroy the idol they had raised so much higher than they
wished.

One of the poets, Osmyn's enemy, was employed to compose a satire
against the Caliph, and it was agreed that this should be circulated
under the favourite's name.

From that time the avenger of the common cause never quitted Osmyn, nor
ceased to load him with praises and caresses.

One day when Osmyn delivered an extempore poem before the Caliph,
his rival, after having warmly applauded him, cast down his eyes by
accident, and saw shining on the floor one of the pastilles that Osmyn,
who was led away by the vivacity of his declamation, had let fall
by mistake.

     

     
     The traitor snatched it up, and put it mechanically in his mouth.

The
     pastille produced its effect; the poet felt a sudden inspiration, left the
     hall and flew to compose the projected satire. He was surprised at his
     own aptitude; the verses cost him no trouble, but flowed of
     themselves. The bitterest expressions escaped from his pen without his
     seeking for them. In short, in an instant,
     
     he brought forth a true chef-d'oeuvre of malice.
     
     
     
     
     He continued some moments in ecstacy with his work,
     
     
     and carried it in triumph to his friends--or rather to his accomplices. The satire
     was received with the liveliest applause: it was the pure and vigorous
     style of Osmyn. The
     
writer had imitated his handwriting; and soon the libel was spread about
in his name.

       

     
Murmurs arose on all sides against the ingratitude of Osmyn. The satire fell
into the hands of the Caliph, who in his rage ordered the unfortunate
Osmyn to be stript of all his property, and driven from Bagdad.

Osmyn,
overpowered by the blow, could not defend himself; besides, how could he make
his innocence heard amidst the cries of his calumniators.

After having wandered a long time, every where imploring pity--sometimes
meeting with kindness, but oftener repulsed with selfishness--he arrived,
at nightfall, before a superb country house, magnificently illuminated.

     
     
     
     He heard the accents of joy mingled with the sounds of a brilliant concert of music,
     and saw all the
     
     signs of a splendid fête. However, the
     
     thunder began to roll, the sky was obscured by heavy clouds, and Osmyn's
     miserable
     
     clothing was soon drenched by the rain.
     
     
     He approached this
     
beautiful house, in hopes to find there, if not hospitality for the
night, at least an asylum for some minutes.

The slaves perceived him, and said to him harshly--"What do you ask,
beggar?"

"A humble shelter from the storm, a morsel of bread to appease my hunger,
and a little straw to rest my body on, borne down by fatigue."

"Thou shalt have none of these."

"For pity--"

"Begone!"

"See how it rains!--Hear how it thunders!"

"Go elsewhere, and come not to disturb by thy presence the pleasures
of our master."

Osmyn was on the point
of obeying this order, when the master of the house, who had witnessed this
scene from a window, came down, called his slaves, and ordered them
to receive the unfortunate man, to procure him clothes, a bed, and all
he was in need of.

"Misery," said he, "misery is for him who revels in the presence of the
poor, and suffers them to plead for assistance in vain; and misfortune
for the rich who, cloyed with luxuries, refuse a morsel of bread to
a famishing stranger.

Poor traveller, go and repose thyself, and may the Prophet send thee
refreshing slumbers, that thou mayst for a time forget thy sufferings."

"Oh
Heaven!" cried Osmyn, "what voice strikes my ear? It is the voice--the voice of Zambri!"

"Zambri!
what! do you know him?"

"Heavens! do I know him?--Do I know my brother?"

"You my brother!" cried Zambri in his turn. "Can it be? That voice--those
features, disfigured by poverty and misery. Ah! I recognise you, my
dear Osmyn!"

No more need be said: he flew to embrace his brother; but Osmyn, overcome
by the excess of his joy, fell senseless at his feet.

He was conveyed into the finest apartment of the villa, every assistance
was afforded him, and he was soon restored. Zambri ordered him magnificent
apparel, and taking him by the hand, conducted him to the banquet, and
presented him to his friends. After the repast, Osmyn related all
the vicissitudes of his fortune, his long suffering, his rapid glory,
the jealousy and perfidy of his enemies, "But thou," added he, "my
dear Zambri, by what good fortune do I find you in such an enviable
situation?

What! this
beautiful house, this crowd of slaves, these sumptuous ornaments!--to
what dost thou owe them?"

"To the receipt for preparing Sherbet," said Zambri, smiling. "Listen
to my story, it is very simple. Soon after we parted, I directed my steps
towards Teflis, where I sought only to gain a livelihood. On my arrival,
I went into the public places where the opulent people assemble, to refresh
themselves with ices and sherbet.

I solicited
employment there, but was refused, and harshly sent away. Not knowing
what to do, and not having money to procure a subsistence, I went at
length to one of the obscure cafés, frequented by the lowest people.

The master of this wretched place, who was named Mehdad, agreed to
accept my services.

I prepared a bottle of the liquor for which
the good genius had given me the receipt, but the ingredients of which, although
cheap, I had not before been able to purchase, and soon I found an immense company
crowding to Mehdad's café. The rich people also would take no other; and
Mehdad soon had before him the prospect of becoming opulent.

"He had a daughter; she was young and beautiful; I became enamoured
of her, and ventured to ask her hand.

I had preserved the secret of my receipt.

Mehdad
was ignorant that he owed his good fortune to me, and believed that it was through
his own talent. He rejected my offer with disdain, and drove me from his house.
Poor fellow! he was not the first who, without knowing it, had driven
good luck from his home.

"I had gained some money in his service; and I employed the fruit of my
economy in forming for myself an establishment in one of the public
gardens of Teflis, on the banks of the charming river Khur.

Here I erected a small, but elegant pavilion, and I sold my Sherbet
to all the promenaders of the garden. In a short time Mehdad, and
all the cafés of Teflis, were abandoned for my little pavilion.

Zambri's Sherbet was alone in demand: it was spoken of in all companies--it
was taken at all festivals.

The garden of Zambri was crowded from morning till night. The multitude was attracted
towards my pavilion like swarms of flies towards a honey-comb.

I
was compelled to erect a pavilion ten times larger than the former,
and I decorated it magnificently.

"A year had scarcely elapsed before I had acquired a considerable
fortune.

I quitted
my new establishment, returned to the city, and purchased merchandize
of all descriptions.

I prepared a great quantity of this favourite liquor, to which I owe
all my wealth. I sent it to all the cities of Persia, and into the
most distant countries.

Heaven seemed to smile on my exertions. A beautiful widow, aged twenty
years, saw and loved me; I was not insensible to her charms. We made
mutual vows of attachment, and marriage crowned my happiness.

"We have acquired this charming retreat, and reside here during the most
beautiful season of the year, amongst our good friends, who, in partaking our
pleasures, add to them the charms of their society.

"How
many times, dear Osmyn, have my thoughts been occupied with thee!

Often have I said, in the midst of my prosperity, Where is my brother?--where
dwells Osmyn?

No doubt the invaluable secret he possesses has gained him an immense
fortune, and raised him to the pinnacle of honour.

But I see that in these times happiness, tranquillity, and perhaps riches,
are more easily obtained by humble and modest employment, than by splendid abilities.
In the course of my transactions, I have met with vexations and disappointments.
Sometimes my Sherbet has been imitated; but the fraud has always
been discovered, and the intrigues of my rivals have added to my reputation.

At length I have found that it is easier to satisfy the caprice than the
judgment of mankind, and that those who could not understand the merits
of a clever work, would readily agree upon the subject of a delicious and
agreeable beverage."

Thus spoke the good Zambri: he strove affectionately to console Osmyn.

The two brothers separated no more; and, thanks to the receipt for
preparing Sherbet, they lived long together amidst the pleasures that
wealth commands, and the still more true and solid happiness procured
by peace and friendship.

* * * * *

THE NATURALIST.

BOTANY OF SHAKSPEARE.

At a recent meeting of the Medico-Botanical Society, a very interesting
dissertation on the medicinal plants which occur in the plays of Shakspeare,
from the pen of Mr. Rootsay, of Bristol, was read, and excited considerable
attention. The hebenon henbane alluded to in Hamlet, the mandragora,
the various plants so beautifully alluded to in Romeo and Juliet,
and in other dramas, were the subject of the inquiry, and much classical
information was displayed by the ingenious author in the illustration of
the subject. We hope to report more respecting this very interesting
paper to our readers.

* * * * *

THE CUTTLE-FISH.

The following account of the
sepia media, a small species of cuttle-fish, is given by Mr. Donovan,
in his "Excursion through South Wales:"--"When first caught, the eyes,
which are large and prominent, glistened with the lustre of the pearl,
or rather of the emerald, whose luminous transparency they seemed
to emulate.

The pupil is a fine black, and above each eye is a semilunar mark
of the richest garnet.

The body, nearly transparent,
or of a pellucid green, is glossed with all the variety of prismatic
tints, and thickly dotted with brown.

At almost every effort of respiration, the little creature tossed
its arms in apparent agony, and clung more firmly to the finger; while
the dark-brown spots upon the body alternately faded and revived,
diminishing in size till they were scarcely perceptible, and then
appearing again as large as peas, crowding, and becoming confluent
nearly all over the body.

At length, the animal being detained
too long from its native element, became enfeebled, the colours faded,
the spots decreased in size, and all its pristine beauty vanished with the
last gasp of life."

W.G.C.

* * * * *

THE OSTRICH.

The Ostriches in the Gardens of the Zoological Society would be truly
a noble pair, were it not for an unnatural curve in the neck of the
male, in consequence, it is said, of its having formerly swallowed
something more than usually bulky and hard of digestion.

* * * * *

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

RUSSIAN BURIAL GROUND.

Mr. James's popular Journal of a Tour in Russia, &c., has supplied the above
illustration of honours paid to the dead in that country. The Cut
represents one of the Cemeteries of the government of Tchernigoff.
Mr. James describes it as planted around with trees, and studded
thick with wooden crosses, oratories, and other permanent marks of
reverence. The general appearance of piety with which these grounds
are kept up, their sequestered situation apart from any town, the
profound veneration with which they are saluted by the natives, added
to the dark and sepulchral shade of the groves, lend them an interest
with which the tinsel ornaments of more gorgeous cemeteries can in
no degree compare.

* * * * *

ANCESTORS.

Some nations pay particular
attention to the memory of their ancestors. The Quojas, a people of
Africa, offer sacrifices of rice and wine to their ancestors, before
they undertake any considerable action; and the anniversaries of their
death are always kept by their families with great solemnity; the
king invokes the souls of his father and mother to make trade flourish
and the chase succeed. But the Chinese have distinguished themselves
above all other nations, by the veneration in which they hold their
ancestors. Part of the duty, according to the laws of Confucius, which
children owe their parents, consists in worshipping them when dead. For man is but his mind, and as his mind is tempered
     and qualified, so are his speeches and language at large; and his
     inward conceits be the metal of his mind, and his manner of
     utterance the very warp and woof of his conceits, more plain or
     busy and intricate or otherwise affected after the rate."[15]

[14] The final s of such names often at the time appears unaltered.

[15] i.e. "in proportion."

Contemporary with these, however, there was growing up a quite different school of English
prose which showed itself on one side in the estilo culto of Lyly and the university wits of
his time; on the other, in the extremely vernacular and sometimes extremely vulgar manner of
the pamphleteers, who were very often the same persons. Lyly himself exhibits both styles in
Euphues; and if Pap with a Hatchet and An Almond for a Parrot are rightly attributed to him,
still more in these. So also does Gabriel Harvey, Spenser's friend, a curious coxcomb who endeavoured
to dissuade Spenser from continuing The Faërie Queene, devoted much time himself and strove
to devote other people to the thankless task of composing English hexameters and trimeters,
engaged (very much to his discomfiture) in a furious pamphlet war with Thomas Nash, and altogether
presents one of the most characteristic though least favourable specimens of the Elizabethan
man of letters. We may speak of him further when we come to the pamphleteers generally.

John Lyly is a person of much more consequence in English literature than the conceited and
pragmatical pedant who wrote Pierce's Supererogation. He is familiar, almost literally to every
schoolboy, as the author of the charming piece, "Cupid with my Campaspe Played," and his dramatic
work will come in for notice in a future chapter; but he is chiefly thought of by posterity,
whether favourably or the reverse, as the author of Euphues. Exceedingly little is known about
his life, and it is necessary to say that the usually accepted dates of his death, his children's
birth, and so forth, depend wholly on the identification of a John Lilly, who is the subject
of such entries in the registers of a London church, with the euphuist and dramatist--an identification
which requires confirmation. A still more wanton attempt to supplement ignorance with knowledge
has been made in the further identification with Lyly of a certain "witty and bold atheist,"
who annoyed Bishop Hall in his first cure at Hawstead, in Suffolk, and who is called "Mr. Lilly."
All supposed facts about him (or some other John Lyly), his membership of Parliament and so
forth, have been diligently set forth by Mr. Bond in his Oxford edition of the Works, with
the documents which are supposed to prove them. He is supposed, on uncertain but tolerable
inferences, to have been born about 1554, and he certainly entered Magdalen College, Oxford,
in 1569, though he was not matriculated till two years later. He is described as plebeii filius,
was not on the foundation, and took his degree in 1573. He must have had some connection with
the Cecils, for a letter of 1574 is extant from him to Burleigh. He cannot have been five and
twenty when he wrote Euphues, which was licensed at the end of 1578, and was published (the
first part) early next year, while the second part followed with a very short interval. In
1582 he wrote an unmistakable letter commendatory to Watson's Hecatompathia, and between 1580
and 1590 he must have written his plays. He appears to have continued to reside at Magdalen
for a considerable time, and then to have haunted the Court. A melancholy petition is extant
to Queen Elizabeth from him, the second of its kind, in which he writes: "Thirteen years your
highness' servant, but yet nothing." This was in 1598: he is supposed to have died in 1606.
Euphues is a very singular book, which was constantly reprinted and eagerly read for fifty
years, then forgotten for nearly two hundred, then frequently discussed, but very seldom read,
even it may be suspected in Mr. Arber's excellent reprint of it, or in that of Mr. Bond. It
gave a word to English, and even yet there is no very distinct idea attaching to the word.
It induced one of the most gifted restorers of old times to make a blunder, amusing in itself,
but not in the least what its author intended it to be, and of late years especially it has
prompted constant discussions as to the origin of the peculiarities which mark it. As usual,
we shall try to discuss it with less reference to what has been said about it than to itself.

Euphues (properly divided into two parts, "Euphues, the Anatomy of Wit," and "Euphues and his
England," the scene of the first lying in Naples) is a kind of love story; the action, however,
being next to nothing, and subordinated to an infinite amount of moral and courtly discourse.
Oddly enough, the unfavourable sentence of Hallam, that it is "a very dull story," and the
favourable sentence of Kingsley, that it is "a brave, righteous, and pious book," are both
quite true, and, indeed, any one can see that there is nothing incompatible in them. At the
present day, however, its substance, which chiefly consists of the moral discourses aforesaid,
is infinitely inferior in interest to its manner. Of that manner, any one who imagines it to
be reproduced by Sir Piercie Shafton's extravagances in The Monastery has an entirely false
idea. It is much odder than Shaftonese, but also quite different from it. Lyly's two secrets
are in the first place an antithesis, more laboured, more monotonous, and infinitely more pointless
than Macaulay's--which antithesis seems to have met with not a little favour, and was indeed
an obvious expedient for lightening up and giving character to the correct but featureless
prose of Ascham and other "Latiners." The second was a fancy, which amounts to a mania, for
similes, strung together in endless lists, and derived as a rule from animals, vegetables,
or minerals, especially from the Fauna and Flora of fancy. It is impossible to open a page
of Euphues without finding an example of this eccentric and tasteless trick, and in it, as
far as in any single thing, must be found the recipe for euphuism, pure and simple. As used
in modern language for conceited and precious language in general, the term has only a very
partial application to its original, or to that original's author. Indeed Lyly's vocabulary,
except occasionally in his similes, is decidedly vernacular, and he very commonly mingles extremely
homely words with his highest flights. No better specimen of him can be given than from the
aforesaid letter commendatory to the Hecatompathia.

     "My good friend, I have read your new passions, and they have
     renewed mine old pleasures, the which brought to me no less
     delight than they have done to your self-commendations. And
     certes had not one of mine eyes about serious affairs been
     watchful, both by being too busy, had been wanton: such is the
     nature of persuading pleasure, that it melteth the marrow before
     it scorch the skin and burneth before it warmeth. Not unlike unto
     the oil of jet, which rotteth the bone and never rankleth the
     flesh, or the scarab flies which enter into the root and never
     touch the fruit.

     "And whereas you desire to have my opinion, you may imagine that
     my stomach is rather cloyed than queasy, and therefore mine
     appetite of less force than my affection, fearing rather a
     surfeit of sweetness than desiring a satisfying. The repeating of
     love wrought in me a semblance of liking; but searching the very
     veins of my heart I could find nothing but a broad scar where I
     left a deep wound: and loose strings where I tied hard knots: and
     a table of steel where I framed a plot of wax.

     "Whereby I noted that young swans are grey, and the old white,
     young trees tender and the old tough, young men amorous, and,
     growing in years, either wiser or warier. The coral plant in the
     water is a soft weed, on the land a hard stone: a sword frieth in
     the fire like a black eel; but laid in earth like white snow:
     the heart in love is altogether passionate; but free from desire
     altogether careless.

     "But it is not my intent to inveigh against love, which women
     account but a bare word and men reverence as the best God. Only
     this I would add without offence to gentlewomen, that were not
     men more superstitious in their praises than women are constant
     in their passions love would either be worn out of use, or men
     out of love, or women out of lightness. I can condemn none but by
     conjecture, nor commend any but by lying, yet suspicion is as
     free as thought, and as far as I can see as necessary as
     credulity.

     "Touching your mistress I must needs think well, seeing you have
     written so well, but as false glasses shew the fairest faces so
     fine gloses amend the baddest fancies. Appelles painted the
     phoenix by hearsay not by sight, and Lysippus engraved Vulcan
     with a straight leg whom nature framed with a poult foot, which
     proveth men to be of greater affection their [then? = than]
     judgment. But in that so aptly you have varied upon women I will
     not vary from you, so confess I must, and if I should not, yet
     mought I be compelled, that to love would be the sweetest thing
     in the earth if women were the faithfulest, and that women would
     be more constant if men were more wise.

     "And seeing you have used me so friendly as to make me acquainted
     with your passions, I will shortly make you privy to mine which I
     would be loth the printer should see, for that my fancies being
     never so crooked he would put them into straight lines unfit for
     my humour, necessary for his art, who setteth down blind in as
     many letters as seeing.[16]--Farewell."

[16] "Blinde" with the e according to the old spelling having six letters, the same number
as seeing. This curious epistle is both in style and matter an epitome of Euphues, which had
appeared some three years before.

Many efforts have been made to discover some model for Lyly's oddities. Spanish and Italian
influences have been alleged, and there is a special theory that Lord Berners's translations
have the credit or discredit of the paternity. The curious similes are certainly found very
early in Spanish, and may be due to an Eastern origin. The habit of overloading the sentence
with elaborate and far-fetched language, especially with similes, may also have come from the
French rhétoriqueurs already mentioned--a school of pedantic writers (Chastellain, Robertet,
Crétin, and some others being the chief) who flourished during the last half of the fifteenth
century and the first quarter of the sixteenth, while the latest examples of them were hardly
dead when Lyly was born. The desire, very laudably felt all over Europe, to adorn and exalt
the vernacular tongues, so as to make them vehicles of literature worthy of taking rank with
Latin and Greek, naturally led to these follies, of which euphuism in its proper sense was
only one.

Michael Drayton, in some verse complimentary to Sidney, stigmatises not much too strongly Lyly's
prevailing faults, and attributes to the hero of Zutphen the purification of England from euphuism.
This is hardly critical. That Sidney--a young man, and a man of fashion at the time when Lyly's
oddities were fashionable--should have to a great extent (for his resistance is by no means
absolute) resisted the temptation to imitate them, is very creditable. But the influence of
Euphues was at least as strong for many years as the influence of the Arcadia and the Apology;
and the chief thing that can be said for Sidney is that he did not wholly follow Lyly to do
evil. Nor is his positive excellence in prose to be compared for a moment with his positive
excellence in poetry. His life is so universally known that nothing need be said about it beyond
reminding the reader that he was born, as Lyly is supposed to have been, in 1554; that he was
the son of Sir Henry Sidney, afterwards Viceroy of Ireland, and of Lady Mary, eldest daughter
of the luckless Dudley, Duke of Northumberland; that he was educated at Shrewsbury and Christ
Church, travelled much, acquiring the repute of one of the most accomplished cavaliers of Europe,
loved without success Penelope Devereux ("Stella"), married Frances Walsingham, and died of
his wounds at the battle of Zutphen, when he was not yet thirty-two years old. His prose works
are the famous pastoral romance of the Arcadia, written to please his sister, the Countess
of Pembroke, and the short Apology for Poetry, a very spirited piece of work, immediately provoked
by a rather silly diatribe against the theatre by one Stephen Gosson, once a playwright himself,
but turned Puritan clergyman. Both appear to have been written about the same time--that is
to say, between 1579 and 1581; Sidney being then in London and in the society of Spenser and
other men of letters.

The amiability of Sidney's character, his romantic history, the exquisite charm of his verse
at its best, and last, not least, the fact of his enthusiastic appreciation and patronage of
literature at a time when literary men never failed to give aristocratic patrons somewhat more
than quid pro quo, have perhaps caused his prose work to be traditionally a little overvalued.
The Apology for Poetry is full of generous ardour, contains many striking and poetical expressions,
and explains more than any other single book the secret of the wonderful literary production
of the half-century which followed. The Arcadia, especially when contrasted with Euphues, has
the great merit of abundant and stirring incident and interest, of freedom from any single
affectation so pestering and continuous as Lyly's similes, and of constant purple patches of
poetical description and expression, which are indeed not a little out of place in prose, but
which are undeniably beautiful in themselves. But when this is said all is said. Enthusiastic
as Sidney's love for poetry and for literature was, it was enthusiasm not at all according
to knowledge. In the Apology, by his vindication of the Unities, and his denunciation of the
mixture of tragedy and comedy, he was (of course without knowing it) laying down exactly the
two principles, a fortunate abjuration and scouting whereof gave us the greatest possession
in mass and variety of merit that any literature possesses--the Elizabethan drama from Shakespere
and Marlowe to Ford and Shirley. Follow Sidney, and good-bye to Faustus, to Hamlet, to Philaster,
to The Duchess of Malfi, to The Changeling, to The Virgin Martyr, to The Broken Heart. We must
content ourselves with Gorboduc and Cornelia, with Cleopatra and Philotas, at the very best
with Sejanus and The Silent Woman. Again Sidney commits himself in this same piece to the pestilent
heresy of prose-poetry, saying that verse is "only an ornament of poetry;" nor is there any
doubt that Milton, whether he meant it or not, fixed a deserved stigma on the Arcadia by calling
it a "vain and amatorious poem." It is a poem in prose, which is as much as to say, in other
words, that it unites the faults of both kinds. Nor is Sidney less an enemy (though a "sweet
enemy" in his own or Bruno's words) of the minor and more formal graces of style. If his actual
vocabulary is not Latinised, or Italianised, or Lylyfied, he was one of the greatest of sinners
in the special Elizabethan sin of convoluting and entangling his phrases (after the fashion
best known in the mouths of Shakespere's fine gentlemen), so as to say the simplest thing in
the least simple manner. Not Osric nor Iachimo detests the mot propre more than Sidney. Yet
again, he is one of the arch offenders in the matter of spoiling the syntax of the sentence
and the paragraph. As has been observed already, the unpretending writers noticed above, if
they have little harmony or balance of phrase, are seldom confused or breathless. Sidney was
one of the first writers of great popularity and influence (for the Arcadia was very widely
read) to introduce what may be called the sentence-and-paragraph-heap, in which clause is linked
on to clause till not merely the grammatical but the philosophical integer is hopelessly lost
sight of in a tangle of jointings and appendices. It is not that he could not do better; but
that he seems to have taken no trouble not to do worse. His youth, his numerous avocations,
and the certainty that he never formally prepared any of his work for the press, would of course
be ample excuses, even if the singular and seductive beauty of many scraps throughout this
work did not redeem it. But neither of the radical difference in nature and purpose between
prose and verse, nor of the due discipline and management of prose itself, does Sidney seem
to have had the slightest idea. Although he seldom or never reaches the beauties of the flamboyant
period of prose, which began soon after his death and filled the middle of the seventeenth
century, he contains examples of almost all its defects; and considering that he is nearly
the first writer to do this, and that his writings were (and were deservedly) the favourite
study of generous literary youth for more than a generation, it is scarcely uncharitable to
hold him directly responsible for much mischief. The faults of Euphues were faults which were
certain to work their own cure; those of the Arcadia were so engaging in themselves, and linked
with so many merits and beauties, that they were sure to set a dangerous example. I believe,
indeed, that if Sidney had lived he might have pruned his style not a little without weakening
it, and then the richness of his imagination would probably have made him the equal of Bacon
and the superior of Raleigh. But as it is, his light in English prose (we shall speak and speak
very differently of his verse hereafter) was only too often a will-o'-the-wisp. I am aware
that critics whom I respect have thought and spoken in an opposite sense, but the difference
comes from a more important and radical difference of opinion as to the nature, functions,
and limitations of English prose. Sidney's style may be perhaps best illustrated by part of
his Dedication; the narrative parts of the Arcadia not lending themselves well to brief excerpt,
while the Apology is less remarkable for style than for matter.

     To my dear Lady and Sister, the Countess of Pembroke.

     "Here have you now, most dear, and most worthy to be most dear,
     lady, this idle work of mine; which, I fear, like the spider's
     web, will be thought fitter to be swept away than wove to any
     other purpose. For my part, in very truth, as the cruel fathers
     among the Greeks were wont to do to the babes they would not
     foster, I could well find in my heart to cast out in some desert
     of forgetfulness this child which I am loth to father. But you
     desired me to do it, and your desire to my heart is an absolute
     commandment. Now it is done only for you, only to you; if you
     keep it to yourself, or commend it to such friends who will weigh
     errors in the balance of good will, I hope, for the father's
     sake, it will be pardoned, perchance made much of, though in
     itself it have deformities. In sum, a young head, not so well
     stayed as I would it were, and shall be when God will, having
     many fancies begotten in it, if it had not been in some way
     delivered, would have grown a monster, and more sorry might I be
     that they came in than that they gat out. But his[17] chief
     safety shall be the walking abroad; and his chief protection the
     bearing the livery of your name, which, if much good will do not
     deceive me, is worthy to be a sanctuary for a greater offender.
     This say I because I know thy virtue so; and this say I because
     it may be for ever so, or, to say better, because it will be for
     ever so."

[17] Apparently = the book's.

The difference referred to above is again well exemplified by the difference of opinions on
the style of Hooker as compared with that of Sidney. Hooker wrote considerably later than the
other authors here criticised, but his work is so distinctly the climax of the style started
by Ascham, Cheke, and their fellows (the style in which English was carefully adapted to literary
purposes for which Latin had been previously employed, under the general idea that Latin syntax
should, on the whole, rule the new literary medium), that this chapter would be incomplete
without a notice of him. For the distinguished writers who were contemporary with his later
years represent, with rare and only partly distinguished exceptions, not a development of Hooker,
but either a development of Sidney or a fresh style, resulting from the blending in different
proportions of the academic and classical manner with the romantic and discursive.

The events of Hooker's neither long nor eventful life are well-known from one of the earliest
of standard biographies in English--that of Izaak Walton. He was born at Heavitree, a suburb
of Exeter, in 1554(?). Though he was fairly connected, his parents were poor, and he was educated
as a Bible clerk at Corpus Christi College, Oxford. He entered here in 1567, and for some fifteen
years Oxford was his home, latterly as Fellow and Lecturer of Corpus. The story of his marriage
is slightly pathetic, but more than slightly ludicrous, and he appears to have been greatly
henpecked as well as obliged to lead an uncongenial life at a country living. In 1585 he was
made Master of the Temple, and held that post for seven years, distinguishing himself both
as a preacher and a controversialist. But neither was this his vocation; and the last nine
years of his life were spent, it would seem more congenially, in two other country livings,
first in Wiltshire, then in Kent. He died in 1600. The first four books of the Ecclesiastical
Polity were published in 1594, the fifth in 1597. The last three books, published after his
death, lie under grave suspicion of having been tampered with. This, however, as the unquestionably
genuine portion is considerable in bulk, is a matter rather of historical and theological than
of purely literary interest. Hooker himself appears to have been something like the popular
ideal of a student: never so happy as when pen in hand, and by no means fitted for the rougher
kind of converse with his fellow-men, still less for the life of what is commonly called a
man of the world.

But in the world of literature he is a very great man indeed. Very few theological books have
made themselves a place in the first rank of the literature of their country, and if the Ecclesiastical
Polity has done so, it has certainly not done so without cause. If there has been a certain
tendency on the part of strong partisans of the Anglican Church to overestimate the literary
and philosophical merit of this book, which may be called the first vernacular defence of the
position of the English Church, that has been at least compensated by partisan criticism on
the other side. Nor is there the least fear that the judgment of impartial critics will ever
deprive Hooker of the high rank generally accorded to him. He is, of course, far from being
faultless. In his longer sentences (though long sentences are by no means the rule with him)
he often falls into that abuse of the classical style which the comparatively jejune writers
who had preceded him avoided, but which constantly manifested itself in the richer manner of
his own contemporaries--the abuse of treating the uninflected English language as if it were
an inflected language, in which variations and distinctions of case and gender and number help
to connect adjective with substantive, and relative with antecedent. Sometimes, though less
often, he distorts the natural order of the English in order to secure the Latin desideratum
of finishing with the most emphatic and important words of the clause. His subject leads and
almost forces him to an occasional pedantry of vocabulary, and in the region which is not quite
that of form nor quite that of matter, he sometimes fails in co-ordinating his arguments, his
facts, and his citations, and in directing the whole with crushing force at his enemy. His
argument occasionally degenerates into mere illustration; his logic into mere rhetoric.

But when all these things are admitted, the Ecclesiastical Polity remains a book in which matter
and manner are wedded as in few other books of the same kind. The one characteristic which
has been admitted by Hooker's faintest praisers as well as by his warmest--the golden moderation
and judiciousness of his argument--is perhaps rather calculated to extort esteem than to arouse
admiration. Moderation, like other kinds of probity, laudatur et alget: the adversary is not
extremely grateful for not being pushed to extremity, and those on the same side would at least
excuse a little more vehemence in driving advantages home. But Hooker has other qualities which
are equally estimable and more shining. What especially distinguishes him from the literary
point of view is his almost unique faculty of diversifying dry and technical argument with
outbursts of rhetoric. These last are not mere purple patches; they do not come in with the
somewhat ostentatious usherment and harbingery which, for instance, laid the even more splendid
bursts of Jeremy Taylor open to the sharp sarcasm of South. There is nothing theatrical about
them; they rise quite naturally out of the level of discussion and sink into it again, with
no sudden stumble or drop. Nor are they ever (like some of Sidney's poetical excrescences)
tags and hemistichs of unwritten sonnets or songs stuck in anyhow upon the prose. For instance,
Sidney writes: "About the time when the candles had begun to inherit the sun's office." Now
this in a somewhat quaint and conceited fashion of verse would be excellent. It would also
be excellent in burlesque, and in such prose as Browne's it might conquer its place victoriously.
But except in such a context (which Sidney cannot weave) it is a rococo ornament, a tawdry
beautification. Compare with it any of the celebrated passages of Hooker, which may be found
in the extract books--the encomium on law, the admirable passage, not so admirable indeed in
the context as it might be but still admirable, about angels, the vindication of music in the
church service. Here the expression, even at its warmest, is in no sense poetical, and the
flight, as it is called, connects itself with and continues and drops into the ordinary march
of argument in the most natural and imperceptible manner. The elevated passages of Hooker's
style resemble more than anything else those convenient exploits common, probably, in most
persons' dreams, in which the dreamer, without any trouble to himself or any apparent surprise
in those about him, lifts himself from the ground and skims or soars as he pleases, sure that
he can return to earth also when he pleases, and without any shock. The speculators on the
causes of beauty, admiration, and the like have sometimes sought them in contrast first of
all, and it has been frequently noticed that the poets who charm us most are those who know
how to alternate pity and terror. There is something of the same sort in these variations of
the equable procession of Hooker's syllogisms, these flower-gardens scattered, if not in the
wilderness, yet in the humdrum arable ground of his collections from fathers and philosophers,
his marshallings of facts and theories against the counter-theories of Cartwright and Travers.
Neither before him nor in his time, nor for generations after him--scarcely, indeed, till Berkeley--did
any one arise who had this profound and unpretentious art of mixing the useful with the agreeable.
Taylor--already mentioned as inferior to Hooker in one respect, however superior he may be
in the splendour of his rhetoric--is again and still more inferior to him in the parts that
are not ornamental, in the pedestrian body of his controversy and exposition. As a mere controversialist,
Hooker, if not exactly a Hobbes or a Bentley, if not even a Chillingworth, is not likely to
be spoken of without respect by those who understand what evidence means. If he sometimes seems
to modern readers to assume his premisses, the conclusions follow much more rigidly than is
customary with a good many of our later philosophers, who protest against the assumption of
premisses; but having so protested neglect the ambiguity of terms, and leave their middles
undistributed, and perpetrate illicit process with a gaiety of heart which is extremely edifying,
or who fancy that they are building systems of philosophy when they are in reality constructing
dictionaries of terms. But his argument is of less concern to us here than the style in which
he clothes it, and the merit of that is indisputable, as a brief extract will show.

     "As therefore man doth consist of different and distinct parts,
     every part endued with manifold abilities which all have their
     several ends and actions thereunto referred; so there is in this
     great variety of duties which belong to men that dependency and
     order by means whereof, the lower sustaining always the more
     excellent and the higher perfecting the more base, they are in
     their times and seasons continued with most exquisite
     correspondence. Labours of bodily and daily toil purchase freedom
     for actions of religious joy, which benefit these actions requite
     with the gift of desired rest--a thing most natural and fit to
     accompany the solemn festival duties of honour which are done to
     God. For if those principal works of God, the memory whereof we
     use to celebrate at such times, be but certain tastes and
     says,[18] as it were, of that final benefit wherein our perfect
     felicity and bliss lieth folded up, seeing that the presence of
     the one doth direct our cogitations, thoughts, and desires
     towards the other, it giveth surely a kind of life and addeth
     inwardly no small delight to those so comfortable anticipations,
     especially when the very outward countenance of that we presently
     do representeth, after a sort, that also whereunto we tend. As
     festival rest doth that celestial estate whereof the very
     heathens themselves, which had not the means whereby to apprehend
     much, did notwithstanding imagine that it must needs consist in
     rest, and have therefore taught that above the highest movable
     sphere there is no thing which feeleth alteration, motion, or
     change; but all things immutable, unsubject to passion, blest
     with eternal continuance in a life of the highest perfection, and
     of that complete abundant sufficiency within itself which no
     possibility of want, maim, or defect, can touch."

[18] "Assays."

Hooker's defects have been already admitted, and it has to be added to them that he was necessarily
destitute of much useful vocabulary which his successors inherited or added, and that he had
absolutely no model of style. What he lacked was the audacity to be, not like Sidney more flowery,
not like the contemporary pamphleteers more slangy, but more intelligently vernacular; to follow
in the mould of his sentences the natural order of English speech rather than the conventional
syntax of Latin, and to elaborate for himself a clause-architecture or order, so to speak,
of word-building, which should depend upon the inherent qualities of euphony and rhythm possessed
by English. It is, however, quite certain that nothing was further from Hooker's thoughts than
the composition of English literature merely as English literature. He wanted to bring a certain
subject under the notice of readers of the vulgar tongue, and being before all things a scholar
he could not help making a scholarly use of that tongue. The wonder is that, in his circumstances
and with his purposes, with hardly any teachers, with not a great stock of verbal material,
and with little or no tradition of workmanship in the art, he should have turned out such admirable
work.

It would be interesting to dwell on the prose of Fulke Greville, Sidney's friend, who long
outlived him, and who anticipated not a little of that magnificence of the prose of his later
contemporaries, beside which I have ventured to suggest that Sidney's own is sometimes but
rococo. A place ought to be given to Richard Knolles, who deserves, if not the name of the
first historian of England, certainly the credit of making, in his History of the Turks (1604),
a step from the loose miscellany of the chronicle to the ordered structure of the true historic
style. Some would plead for Richard Mulcaster, whose work on education and especially on the
teaching of the English tongue in his Positions and First Part of the Elementary (1582) is
most intimately connected with our general subject. But there is no room for more than a mention
of these, or for further dwelling on the translators already glanced at and others, the most
important and influential of whom was John Florio, the Englisher (1603) of Montaigne.

CHAPTER III

THE FIRST DRAMATIC PERIOD

It does not belong to the plan of this division of the present book to trace the earliest beginnings
of the English theatre, or those intermediate performances by which, in the reigns of the four
first Tudors, the Mystery and Morality passed into the Interlude. Even the two famous comedies
of Ralph Roister Doister and Gammer Gurton's Needle stand as it were only at the threshold
of our period in this chapter, and everything before them is shut out of it. On the other hand,
we can take to be our province the whole rise, flourishing, and decadence of the extraordinary
product, known somewhat loosely as the Elizabethan drama. We shall in the present chapter discuss
the two comedies or rather farces just mentioned, and notice on the one hand the rather amorphous
production which, during the first thirty years of Elizabeth, represented the influence of
a growing taste for personal and lively dramatic story on the somewhat arid soil of the Morality
and Interlude, and, on the other, the abortive attempt to introduce the regular Senecan tragedy--an
attempt which almost immediately broke down and disappeared, whelmed in the abundance of chronicle-play
and melodrama. And finally we shall show how the two rival schools of the university wits and
the actor playwrights culminated, the first in Marlowe, the second in the earlier and but indistinctly
and conjecturally known work of Shakespere. A second chapter will show us the triumph of the
untrammelled English play in tragedy and comedy, furnished by Marlowe with the mighty line,
but freed to a great extent from the bombast and the unreal scheme which he did not shake off.
Side by side with Shakespere himself we shall have to deal with the learned sock of Jonson,
the proud full style of Chapman, the unchastened and ill-directed vigour of Marston, the fresh
and charming, if unkempt grace of Dekker, the best known and most remarkable members of a crowd
of unknown or half-known playwrights. A third division will show us a slight gain on the whole
in acting qualities, a considerable perfecting of form and scheme, but at the same time a certain
decline in the most purely poetical merits, redeemed and illustrated by the abundant genius
of Beaumont and Fletcher, of Middleton, of Webster, of Massinger, and of Ford. And the two
latest of these will conduct us into the fourth or period of decadence where, round the voluminous
work and still respectable fame of James Shirley, are grouped names like Brome, Glapthorne,
Suckling, and others, whose writing, sometimes remarkable and even brilliant, gradually loses
not only dramatic but poetical merit, till it drops into the formless plots, the unscannable
verse, the coarseness unredeemed by passion, the horrors unlit by any tragic force, which distinguish
the last plays before the closing of the theatres, and reappear to some extent at a period
beyond ours in the drama (soon to be radically changed in almost every possible characteristic)
of the Restoration. The field of survey is vast, and despite the abundant labour which has
been bestowed upon it during the nineteenth century, it is still in a somewhat chaotic condition.
The remarkable collection of old plays which we owe to Mr. A. H. Bullen shows, by sample only
and with no pretence of being exhaustive, the amount of absolutely unknown matter which still
exists. The collection and editing of texts has proceeded on the most widely different principles,
and with an almost complete absence of that intelligent partition of labour which alone can
reduce chaos to order in such a case. To give but one instance, there is actually no complete
collection, though various attempts have been made at it, which gives, with or without sufficient
editorial apparatus to supplement the canon, all the dramatic adespota which have been at one
time or another attributed to Shakespere. These at present the painful scholar can only get
together in publications abounding in duplicates, edited on the most opposite principles, and
equally troublesome either for library arrangement or for literary reference. The editions
of single authors have exhibited an equal absence of method; one editor admitting doubtful
plays or plays of part-authorship which are easily accessible elsewhere, while another excludes
those which are difficult to be got at anywhere. It is impossible for any one who reads literature
as literature and not as a matter of idle crotchet, not to reflect that if either of the societies
which, during the nineteenth century, have devoted themselves to the study of Shakespere and
his contemporaries, had chosen to employ their funds on it, a complete Corpus of the drama
between 1560 and 1660, edited with sufficient, but not superfluous critical apparatus on a
uniform plan, and in a decent if not a luxurious form, might now be obtainable. Some forty
or fifty volumes at the outside on the scale of the "Globe" series, or of Messrs. Chatto's
useful reprints of Jonson, Chapman, and other dramatists, would probably contain every play
of the slightest interest, even to a voracious student--who would then have all his material
under his hand. What time, expense, and trouble are required to obtain, and that very imperfectly,
any such advantage now, only those who have tried to do it know. Even Mr. Hazlitt's welcome,
if somewhat uncritical, reprint of Dodsley, long out of print, did not boldly carry out its
principle--though there are plans for improving and supplementing it.

Nevertheless, if the difficulties are great so are the rewards. It has been the deliberate
opinion of many competent judges (neither unduly prejudiced in favour of English literature
nor touched with that ignorance of other literature which is as fatal to judgment as actual
prejudice) that in no time or country has the literary interest of a short and definite period
of production in one well-defined kind approached in value the interest of the Elizabethan
drama. Other periods and other countries may produce more remarkable work of different kinds,
or more uniformly accomplished, and more technically excellent work in the same kind. But for
originality, volume, generic resemblance of character, and individual independence of trait,
exuberance of inventive thought, and splendour of execution in detached passages--the Elizabethan
drama from Sackville to Shirley stands alone in the history of the world. The absurd overestimate
which has sometimes been made of its individual practitioners, the hyperbole of the language
which has been used to describe them, the puerile and almost inconceivable folly of some of
their scholiasts and parasitic students, find a certain excuse in this truth--a truth which
will only be contested by those who have not taken the very considerable trouble necessary
to master the facts, or who are precluded by a natural inability from savouring the goût du
terroir of this abundant and intoxicating wine. There are those who say that nobody but an
enthusiast or a self-deceiver can read with real relish any Elizabethan dramatist but Shakespere,
and there are those who would have it that the incommunicable and uncommunicated charm of Shakespere
is to be found in Nabbes and Davenport, in Glapthorne and Chettle. They are equally wrong,
but the second class are at any rate in a more saving way of wrongness. Where Shakespere stands
alone is not so much in his actual faculty of poetry as in his command of that faculty. Of
the others, some, like Jonson, Fletcher, Massinger, had the art without the power; others,
like Chapman, Dekker, Webster, had flashes of the power without the art. But there is something
in the whole crew, jovial or saturnine, which is found nowhere else, and which, whether in
full splendour as in Shakespere, or in occasional glimmers as in Tourneur or Rowley, is found
in all, save those mere imitators and hangers-on who are peculiar to no period.

This remarkable quality, however, does not show itself in the dramatic work of our present
period until quite the close of it. It is true that the period opens (according to the traditional
estimate which has not been much altered by recent studies) with three plays of very considerable
character, and of no inconsiderable merit--the two comedies already named and the tragedy of
Gorboduc, otherwise Ferrex and Porrex. Ralph Roister Doister was licensed and is thought to
have been printed in 1566, but it may have been acted at Eton by 1541, and the whole cast of
the metre, language, and scenario, is of a colour older than Elizabeth's reign. It may be at
least attributed to the middle of the century, and is the work of Nicholas Udall, a schoolmaster
who has left at two great schools a repute for indulgence in the older methods of instruction
not inferior to Busby's or Keate's. Ralph Roister Doister, though a fanciful estimate may see
a little cruelty of another kind in it, is of no austere or pedagogic character. The author
has borrowed not a little from the classical comedy--Plautine or even Aristophanic rather than
Terentian--to strengthen and refine the domestic interlude or farce; and the result is certainly
amusing enough. The plot turns on the courtship of Dame Christian Custance [Constance], a widow
of repute and wealth as well as beauty, by the gull and coxcomb, Ralph Roister Doister, whose
suit is at once egged on and privately crossed by the mischievous Matthew Merrygreek, who plays
not only parasite but rook to the hero. Although Custance has not the slightest intention of
accepting Ralph, and at last resorts to actual violence, assisted by her maids, to get rid
of him and his followers, the affair nearly breeds a serious quarrel between herself and her
plighted lover, Gawin Goodluck; but all ends merrily. The metre is the somewhat unformed doggerel
couplet of twelve syllables or thereabouts, with a strong cæsura in the middle, and is varied
and terminated by songs from Custance's maids and others. Indeed the chief charm of the piece
is the genuine and unforced merriment which pervades it. Although Merrygreek's practices on
Ralph's silliness sometimes tend a little to tediousness, the action on the whole moves trippingly
enough, and despite the strong flavour of the "stock part" in the characters they have considerable
individuality. The play is, moreover, as a whole remarkably free from coarseness, and there
is no difficulty in finding an illustrative extract.

    C. Custance loquitur.

    "O Lord! how necessary it is now o' days,
    That each body live uprightly all manner ways;
    For let never so little a gap be open,
    And be sure of this, the worst shall be spoken.
    How innocent stand I in this frame o' thought,
    And yet see what mistrust towards me it hath wrought.
    But thou, Lord, knowest all folks' thoughts and eke intents;
    And thou art the deliverer of all innocents.
    Thou didst keep the advoutress,[19] that she might be amended;
    Much more then keep, Lord,[20] that never sin intended.
    Thou didst keep Susanna, wrongfully accused,
    And no less dost thou see, Lord, how I am now abused.
    Thou didst keep Hester, when she should have died,
    Keep also, good Lord, that my truth may be tried.
    Yet, if Gawin Goodluck with Tristram Trusty speak,
    I trust of ill-report the force shall be but weak;
    And lo! yond they come talking sadly together:
    I will abide, and not shrink for their coming hither."

[19] Adulteress.

[20] Understand "me."

Freedom from coarseness is more than can be predicated of the still more famous Gammer Gurton's
Needle, attributed to, and all but certainly known to be, by John Still, afterwards bishop.
The authorship, indeed, is not quite certain; and the curious reference in Martin Marprelate's
Epistle (ed. Arber, p. 11) to "this trifle" as "shewing the author to have had some wit and
invention in him" only disputes the claim of Dr. Bridges to those qualities, and does not make
any suggestion as to the identity of the more favoured author. Still was the son of a Lincolnshire
gentleman, is supposed to have been born about 1543, was educated at Christ's College, Cambridge,
and after a course of preferment through the positions of parish priest in London and at Hadleigh,
Dean of Bocking, Canon of Westminster, Master successively of St. John's and Trinity, and Vice-Chancellor
of his own University, was at the beginning of 1593 made Bishop of Bath and Wells, an office
which he held for fifteen years. His play (taking it as his) was his only work of the kind,
and was the first English play acted at either university, though later he himself had to protest
officially against the use of the vernacular in a piece performed before the Queen. Gammer
Gurton's Needle, as has been said, is, despite the subsequent history of its author and the
academic character of its appearance, of a much lower order of comedy than Ralph Roister Doister,
though it is also more spontaneous, less imitative, and, in short, more original. The best
thing about it is the magnificent drinking song, "Back and Side go Bare, go Bare," one of the
most spirited and genuine of all bacchanalian lyrics; but the credit of this has sometimes
been denied to Still. The metre of the play itself is very similar to that of Ralph Roister
Doister, though the long swinging couplet has a tendency to lengthen itself still further,
to the value of fourteen or even sixteen syllables, the central cæsura being always well marked,
as may be seen in the following:--

    Diccon. "Here will the sport begin, if these two once may meet,
              Their cheer, [I] durst lay money, will prove scarcely sweet.
              My gammer sure intends to be upon her bones,
              With staves, or with clubs, or else with cobble stones.
              Dame Chat on the other side, if she be far behind,
              I am right far deceived, she is given to it of kind.
              He that may tarry by it a while, and that but short,
              I warrant him trust to it, he shall see all the sport.
              Into the town will I, my friends to visit there,
              And hither straight again to see the end of this gear.
              In the meantime, fellows, pipe up your fiddles; I say, take
                    them,
              And let your friends hear such mirth as ye can make them."

As for the story, it is of the simplest, turning merely on the losing of her needle by Gammer
Gurton as she was mending her man Hodge's breeches, on the search for it by the household,
on the tricks by which Diccon the Bedlam (the clown or "vice" of the piece) induces a quarrel
between Gammer and her neighbours, and on the final finding of the needle in the exact place
on which Gammer Gurton's industry had been employed. The action is even better sustained and
livelier than in Udall's play, and the swinging couplets canter along very cheerfully with
great freedom and fluency of language. Unfortunately this language, whether in order to raise
a laugh or to be in strict character with the personages, is anything but choice. There is
(barring a possible double meaning or two) nothing of the kind generally known as licentious;
it is the merely foul and dirty language of common folk at all times, introduced, not with
humorous extravagance in the Rabelaisian fashion, but with literal realism. If there had been
a little less of this, the piece would have been much improved; but even as it is, it is a
capital example of farce, just as Ralph Roister Doister is of a rather rudimentary kind of
regular comedy.

The strangeness of the contrast which these two plays offer when compared with the third is
peculiar in English literature. Elsewhere it is common enough. That tragedy should be stately,
decorous, and on the whole somewhat uneventful as far as visible action goes,--comedy bustling,
crammed with incident, and quite regardless of decorum,--might seem a law of nature to the
audience of Æschylus and Aristophanes, of Plautus and Pacuvius, even to the audience of Molière
and Racine. But the vast and final change, the inception of which we have here to record, has
made tragedy, tragi-comedy, comedy, and farce pass into one another so gradually, and with
so little of a break in the English mind, that Gammer Gurton's Needle and Gorboduc, though
they were presented to the same audiences, and in all probability written within ten years
of each other at furthest, seem to belong to different worlds of literature and society. The
two comedies just noticed are framed upon no literary model at all as wholes, but simply upon
the model of human nature. Gorboduc is framed, though not with absolute fidelity, on the model
of the tragedies of Seneca, which had, during the early years of the sixteenth century, mastered
the attention of the literary playwrights of Italy, France, and even to some extent Germany,
and which determined for three hundred years, at any rate, the form of the tragedy of France.
This model--which may be briefly described as the model of Greek tragedy, still further pruned
of action, with the choruses retained, but estranged from their old close connection with the
dialogue, and reduced to the level of elaborate lyrical moralisings, and with the tendency
to such moralising in dialogue as well as in chorus largely increased--was introduced in England
with hardly less advantage than abroad. Sackville, one of the reputed authors of Gorboduc,
was far superior to Jodelle, both as poet and as versifier, and the existence of the two universities
in England gave a support, to which nothing in France corresponded, to the influence of learned
writers. Indeed, till nearly the close of our present period, the universities had the practical
control of literary production. But the genius of the English nation would have none of Seneca.
It refused him when he was first introduced by Sackville and others; it refused him once more
when Daniel and the set of the Countess of Pembroke again attempted to introduce him; it refused
him again and again in the later seventeenth century, when imitation, first of his earlier
French followers, and then of the greater tragedy of Corneille and Racine (which was only the
Senecan model strengthened and improved) was repeatedly tried by fine gentlemen and by needy
hacks, by devotees of the unities, and by devotees of court fashion. I hardly know any other
instance in literary history of a similar resistance offered to a similar tide of literary
influence in Europe. We have little room here for fanciful comparisons, yet might the dramatic
events of 1560-1590 in England well seem a literary battle of Tours, in which an English Charles
Martel stemmed and turned back for ever and ever the hitherto resistless march of a literary
invader and spread of a literary heresy.

To the modern reader Gorboduc (part of which is attributed to Thomas Norton, and which was
acted on 18th January 1561, published piratically in 1565, and authoritatively under the title
of Ferrex and Porrex in 1571?) is scarcely inviting, but that is not a criterion of its attractiveness
to its own contemporaries. Perhaps the most curious thing about it is the violence done to
the Horatian and Senecan theories, or rather the naïf outwitting of those theories, by an arrangement
of dumb shows between the acts to satisfy the hunger for real action which the model refused
to countenance. All the rest is of the most painful regularity: and the scrupulosity with which
each of the rival princes is provided with a counsellor and a parasite to himself, and the
other parts are allotted with similar fairness, reaches such a point that it is rather surprising
that Gorboduc was not provided with two queens--a good and a bad. Such action as there is lies
wholly in the mouths of messengers, and the speeches are of excessive length. But even these
faults are perhaps less trying to the modern reader than the inchoate and unpolished condition
of the metre in the choruses, and indeed in the blank verse dialogue. Here and there, there
are signs of the stateliness and poetical imagery of the "Induction"; but for the most part
the decasyllables stop dead at their close and begin afresh at their beginning with a staccato
movement and a dull monotony of cadence which is inexpressibly tedious, as will be seen in
the following:--

    (Videna soliloquises.)

    "Why should I live and linger forth my time
    In longer life to double my distress?
    O me, most woeful wight, whom no mishap
    Long ere this day could have bereaved hence.
    Might not these hands, by fortune or by fate,
    Have pierc'd this breast, and life with iron reft?
    Or in this palace here where I so long
    Have spent my days, could not that happy hour
    Once, once have happ'd in which these hugy frames
    With death by fall might have oppressed me?
    Or should not this most hard and cruel soil,
    So oft where I have press'd my wretched steps,
    Some time had ruth of mine accursed life,
    To rend in twain and swallow me therein?
    So had my bones possessed now in peace
    Their happy grave within the closed ground,
    And greedy worms had gnawn this pined heart
    Without my feeling pain: so should not now
    This living breast remain the ruthful tomb
    Wherein my heart yielden to death is graved;
    Nor dreary thoughts, with pangs of pining grief,
    My doleful mind had not afflicted thus."

There is no blame due to Sackville in that he did not invent what no single man invented, and
what even in England, where only it has been originally attained, took some thirty years of
the genius of the nation working through innumerable individual tentatives and failures to
bring about. But he did not invent it; he did not even make any attempt to invent it; and had
this first English tragedy been generally followed, we should have been for an unknown period
in the land of bondage, in the classical dungeon which so long retained the writers of a nation,
certainly not, at the time of the appearance of Gorboduc, of less literary promise than our own.

In describing these tentatives and failures it will be impossible here to enter into any lengthened
criticism of particular works. We shall have to content ourselves with a description of the
general lines and groups, which may be said to be four in number: (1) The few unimportant and
failing followers of Sackville; (2) The miscellaneous farce-and-interlude-writers, who, incult
and formless as their work was, at least maintained the literary tradition; (3) The important
and most interesting group of "university wits" who, with Marlowe at their head, made the blank
verse line for dramatic purposes, dismissed, cultivated as they were, the cultivation of classical
models, and gave English tragedy its Magna Charta of freedom and submission to the restrictions
of actual life only, but who failed, from this cause or that, to achieve perfect life-likeness;
and (4) The actor-playwrights who, rising from very humble beginnings, but possessing in their
fellow Shakespere a champion unparalleled in ancient and modern times, borrowed the improvements
of the University Wits, added their own stage knowledge, and with Shakespere's aid achieved
the master drama of the world.

A very few lines will suffice for the first group, who are the merest literary curiosities.
Indeed the actual number of Senecan dramas in English is very small indeed, though there may
possibly be some undiscovered in MS. The Tancred and Gismund of Robert Wilmot (acted 1568,
and of some merit), the Cornelia of Garnier, translated by Kyd and printed in 1594, the curious
play called The Misfortunes of Arthur, acted before the Queen in the Armada year, with "triumphs"
partly devised by Francis Bacon, the two plays of Samuel Daniel, and a very few others, complete
the list; indeed Cornelia, Cleopatra, and Philotas are almost the only three that keep really
close to the model. At a time of such unbounded respect for the classics, and when Latin plays
of the same stamp were constantly acted at the universities, such a paucity of examples in
English can only testify to a strong national distaste--an instinctive feeling that this would
never do.

The nondescript followings of morality and farce are infinitely more numerous, and perhaps
intrinsically more interesting; but they can hardly be said to be, except in bulk, of much
greater importance. Their real interest to the reader as he turns them over in the first seven
or eight volumes of Dodsley, or in the rarer single editions where they occur, is again an
interest of curiosity--a desire to trace the various shiftings and turnings of the mighty but
unorganised genius which was soon to find its way. Next to the difficulty of inventing a conveniently
plastic form seems to have been the difficulty of inventing a suitable verse. For some time
the swinging or lumbering doggerel in which a tolerably good rhyme is reached by a kind of
scramble through four or five feet, which are most like a very shuffling anapæst--the verse
which appears in the comedies of Udall and Still--held its ground. We have it in the morality
of the New Custom, printed in 1573, but no doubt written earlier, in the Interlude of The Trial
of Treasure, in the farcical comedy of Like Will to Like, a coarse but lively piece, by Ulpian
Fulwell (1568). In the very curious tragi-comedy of Cambyses this doggerel appears partly,
but is alternated with the less lawless but scarcely more suitable "fourteener" (divided or
not as usual, according to printer's exigencies) which, as was shown in the last chapter, for
a time almost monopolised the attention of English poets. The same mixture appears to some
extent, though the doggerel occupies the main text, in the Damon and Pythias of Richard Edwards,
the editor of The Paradise of Dainty Devices. In Appius and Virginia (a decidedly interesting
play) the fourteener on the contrary is the staple verse, the doggerel being only occasional.
Something the same may be said of a very late morality, The Conflict of Conscience. Both doggerel
and fourteeners appear in the quaint productions called Three Ladies of London, etc.; but by
this time the decasyllable began to appear with them and to edge them out. They died hard,
however, thoroughly ill-fitted as they were for dramatic use, and, as readers of Love's Labour
Lost know, survived even in the early plays of Shakespere. Nor were the characters and minor
details generally of this group less disorderly and inadequate than the general schemes or
the versification. Here we have the abstractions of the old Morality; there the farcical gossip
of the Gammer Gurton's Needle class; elsewhere the pale and dignified personages of Gorboduc:
all three being often jumbled together all in one play. In the lighter parts there are sometimes
fair touches of low comedy; in the graver occasionally, though much more rarely, a touching
or dignified phrase or two. But the plays as wholes are like Ovid's first-fruits of the deluge--nondescripts
incapable of life, and good for no useful or ornamental purpose.

It is at this moment that the cleavage takes place. And when I say "this moment," I am perfectly
conscious that the exact moment in dates and years cannot be defined. Not a little harm has
been done to the history of English literature by the confusion of times in which some of its
historians have pleased themselves. But even greater harm might be done if one were to insist
on an exact chronology for the efflorescence of the really poetical era of Elizabethan literature,
if the blossoming of the aloe were to be tied down to hour and day. All that we can say is
that in certain publications, in certain passages even of the same publication, we find the
old respectable plodding, the old blind tentative experiment in poetry and drama: and then
without warning--without, as it seems, any possible opportunity of distinguishing chronologically--we
find the unmistakable marks of the new wine, of the unapproachable poetry proper, which all
criticism, all rationalisation can only indicate and not account for. We have hardly left (if
we take their counterparts later we have not left) the wooden verse of Gorboduc, the childish
rusticity of Like Will to Like, when suddenly we stumble on the bower--

    "Seated in hearing of a hundred streams"--

of George Peele, on the myriad graceful fancies of Lyly, on the exquisite snatches of Greene,
on the verses, to this day the high-water mark of poetry, in which Marlowe speaks of the inexpressible
beauty which is the object and the despair of the poet. This is wonderful enough. But what
is more wonderful is, that these lightning flashes are as evanescent as lightning. Lyly, Peele,
Greene, Marlowe himself, in probably the very next passages, certainly in passages not very
remote, tell us that this is all matter of chance, that they are all capable of sinking below
the level of Sackville at his even conceivably worst, close to the level of Edwards, and the
various anonymous or half-anonymous writers of the dramatic miscellanies just noted. And then
beyond these unequal wits arises the figure of Shakespere; and the greatest work of all literature
swims slowly into our ken. There has been as yet no history of this unique phenomenon worthy
of it: I have not the least pretension to supply one that shall be worthy. But at least the
uniqueness of it shall here have due celebration. The age of Pericles, the age of Augustus,
the age of Dante, had no such curious ushering-in unless time has dealt exceptional injustice
to the forerunners of all of them. We do not, in the period which comes nearest in time and
nature to this, see anything of the same kind in the middle space between Villon and Ronsard,
between Agrippa d'Aubigné and Corneille. Here if anywhere is the concentrated spirit of a nation,
the thrice-decocted blood of a people, forcing itself into literary expression through mediums
more and more worthy of it. If ever the historical method was justified (as it always is),
now is its greatest justification as we watch the gradual improvements, the decade-by-decade,
almost year-by-year acquisitions, which lead from Sackville to Shakespere.

The rising sap showed itself in two very different ways, in two branches of the national tree.
In the first place, we have the group of University Wits, the strenuous if not always wise
band of professed men of letters, at the head of whom are Lyly, Marlowe, Greene, Peele, Lodge,
Nash, and probably (for his connection with the universities is not certainly known) Kyd. In
the second, we have the irregular band of outsiders, players and others, who felt themselves
forced into literary and principally dramatic composition, who boast Shakespere as their chief,
and who can claim as seconds to him not merely the imperfect talents of Chettle, Munday, and
others whom we may mention in this chapter, but many of the perfected ornaments of a later time.

It may be accident or it may not, but the beginning of this period is certainly due to the
"university wits." Lyly stands a good deal apart from them personally, despite his close literary
connection. We have no kind of evidence which even shows that he was personally acquainted
with any one of the others. Of Kyd, till Mr. Boas's recent researches, we knew next to nothing,
and we still know very little save that he was at Merchant Taylors' School and was busy with
plays famous in their day. But the other five were closely connected in life, and in their
deaths they were hardly divided. Lodge only of the five seems to have freed himself, partly
in virtue of a regular profession, and partly in consequence of his adherence to the Roman
faith, from the Bohemianism which has tempted men of letters at all times, and which was especially
dangerous in a time of such unlimited adventure, such loose public morals, and such unco-ordinated
society as the Elizabethan era. Whatever details we have of their lives (and they are mostly
very meagre and uncertain) convey the idea of times out of joint or not yet in joint. The atheism
of Marlowe rests on no proof whatever, though it has got him friends in this later time. I
am myself by no means sure that Greene's supposed debauchery is not, to a great extent, "copy."
The majority of the too celebrated "jests" attributed to George Peele are directly traceable
to Villon's Repues Franches and similar compilations, and have a suspiciously mythical and
traditional air to the student of literary history. There is something a little more trustworthily
autobiographical about Nash. But on the whole, though we need not doubt that these ancestors
of all modern Englishmen who live by the gray goose quill tasted the inconveniences of the
profession, especially at a time when it was barely constituted even as a vocation or employment
(to quote the Income Tax Papers), we must carefully avoid taking too gloomy a view of their
life. It was usually short, it was probably merry, but we know very little else about it. The
chief direct documents, the remarkable pamphlets which some of them have left, will be dealt
with hereafter. Here we are busied only with their dates and their dramatic work, which was
in no case (except perhaps in that of Kyd) their sole known work, but which in every case except
those of Nash and perhaps Greene was their most remarkable.

In noticing Euphues an account has already been given of Lyly's life, or rather of the very
scanty particulars which are known of it. His plays date considerably later than Euphues. But
they all bear the character of the courtier about them; and both in this characteristic and
in the absence of any details in the gossipping literature of the time to connect him with
the Bohemian society of the playhouse, the distinction which separates Lyly from the group
of "university wits" is noteworthy. He lost as well as gained by the separation. All his plays
were acted "by the children of Paul's before her Majesty," and not by the usual companies before
Dick, Tom, and Harry. The exact date and order of their writing is very uncertain, and in one
case at least, that of The Woman in the Moon, we know that the order was exactly reversed in
publication: this being the last printed in Lyly's lifetime, and expressly described as the
first written. His other dramatic works are Campaspe, Sappho and Phaon, Endymion, Galathea,
Midas, Mother Bombie, and Love's Metamorphosis; another, The Maid's Metamorphosis, which has
been attributed to him, is in all probability not his.

The peculiar circumstances of the production of Lyly's plays, and the strong or at any rate
decided individuality of the author, keep them in a division almost to themselves. The mythological
or pastoral character of their subject in most cases might not of itself have prevented their
marking an advance in the dramatic composition of English playwrights. A Midsummer Night's
Dream and much other work of Shakespere's show how far from necessary it is that theme, or
class of subject, should affect merit of presentment. But Lyly's work generally has more of
the masque than the play. It sometimes includes charming lyrics, such as the famous Campaspe
song and others. But most of it is in prose, and it gave beyond doubt--though Gascoigne had,
as we have seen, set the example in drama--no small impetus to the use and perfectioning of
that medium. For Lyly's dramatic prose, though sometimes showing the same faults, is often
better than Euphues, as here:--

     End. "O fair Cynthia, why do others term thee unconstant, whom
     I have ever found immovable? Injurious time, corrupt manners,
     unkind men, who finding a constancy not to be matched in my sweet
     mistress, have christened her with the name of wavering, waxing,
     and waning. Is she inconstant that keepeth a settled course,
     which since her first creation altereth not one minute in her
     moving? There is nothing thought more admirable, or commendable
     in the sea, than the ebbing and flowing; and shall the moon, from
     whom the sea taketh this virtue, be accounted fickle for
     increasing and decreasing? Flowers in their buds are nothing
     worth till they be blown; nor blossoms accounted till they be
     ripe fruit; and shall we then say they be changeable, for that
     they grow from seeds to leaves, from leaves to buds, from buds to
     their perfection? then, why be not twigs that become trees,
     children that become men, and mornings that grow to evenings,
     termed wavering, for that they continue not at one stay? Ay, but
     Cynthia being in her fulness decayeth, as not delighting in her
     greatest beauty, or withering when she should be most honoured.
     When malice cannot object anything, folly will; making that a
     vice which is the greatest virtue. What thing (my mistress
     excepted) being in the pride of her beauty, and latter minute of
     her age, that waxeth young again? Tell me, Eumenides, what is he
     that having a mistress of ripe years, and infinite virtues, great
     honours, and unspeakable beauty, but would wish that she might
     grow tender again? getting youth by years, and never-decaying
     beauty by time; whose fair face, neither the summer's blaze can
     scorch, nor winter's blast chap, nor the numbering of years breed
     altering of colours. Such is my sweet Cynthia, whom time cannot
     touch, because she is divine, nor will offend because she is
     delicate. O Cynthia, if thou shouldest always continue at thy
     fulness, both gods and men would conspire to ravish thee. But
     thou, to abate the pride of our affections, dost detract from thy
     perfections; thinking it sufficient if once in a month we enjoy a
     glimpse of thy majesty; and then, to increase our griefs, thou
     dost decrease thy gleams; coming out of thy royal robes,
     wherewith thou dazzlest our eyes, down into thy swath clouts,
     beguiling our eyes; and then----"

In these plays there are excellent phrases and even striking scenes. But they are not in the
true sense dramatic, and are constantly spoilt by Lyly's strange weakness for conceited style.
Everybody speaks in antitheses, and the intolerable fancy similes, drawn from a kind of imaginary
natural history, are sometimes as prominent as in Euphues itself. Lyly's theatre represents,
in short, a mere backwater in the general stream of dramatic progress, though not a few allusions
in other men's work show us that it attracted no small attention. With Nash alone, of the University
Wits proper, was Lyly connected, and this only problematically. He was an Oxford man, and most
of them were of Cambridge; he was a courtier; if a badly-paid one, and they all lived by their
wits; and, if we may judge by the very few documents remaining, he was not inclined to be hail-fellow-well-met
with anybody, while they were all born Bohemians. Yet none of them had a greater influence
on Shakespere than Lyly, though it was anything but a beneficial influence, and for this as
well as for the originality of his production he deserves notice, even had the intrinsic merit
of his work been less than it is. But, in fact, it is very great, being almost a typical production
of talent helped by knowledge, but not mastered by positive genius, or directed in its way
by the precedent work of others.

In the work of the University Wits proper--Marlowe, Greene, Peele, Lodge, Nash, and Kyd, the
last of whom, it must again be said, is not certainly known to have belonged to either university,
though the probabilities are all in favour of that hypothesis--a very different kind of work
is found. It is always faulty, as a whole, for even Dr. Faustus and Edward II., despite their
magnificent poetry and the vast capabilities of their form, could only be called good plays
or good compositions as any kind of whole by a critic who had entirely lost the sense of proportion.
But in the whole group, and especially in the dramatic work of Marlowe, Greene, Peele, and
Kyd (for that of Lodge and Nash is small in amount and comparatively unimportant in manner),
the presence, the throes of a new dramatic style are evident. Faults and beauties are more
or less common to the whole quartet. In all we find the many-sided activity of the Shakesperian
drama as it was to be, sprawling and struggling in a kind of swaddling clothes of which it
cannot get rid, and which hamper and cripple its movements. In all there is present a most
extraordinary and unique rant and bombast of expression which reminds one of the shrieks and
yells of a band of healthy boys just let out to play. The passages which (thanks chiefly to
Pistol's incomparable quotations and parodies of them) are known to every one, the "Pampered
jades of Asia," the "Have we not Hiren here," the "Feed and grow fat, my fair Callipolis,"
the other quips and cranks of mine ancient are scattered broadcast in their originals, and
are evidently meant quite seriously throughout the work of these poets. Side by side with this
mania for bombast is another mania, much more clearly traceable to education and associations,
but specially odd in connection with what has just been noticed. This is the foible of classical
allusion. The heathen gods and goddesses, the localities of Greek and Roman poetry, even the
more out-of-the-way commonplaces of classical literature, are put in the mouths of all the
characters without the remotest attempt to consider propriety or relevance. Even in still lesser
peculiarities the blemishes are uniform and constant--such as the curious and childish habit
of making speakers speak of themselves in the third person, and by their names, instead of
using "I" and "me." And on the other hand, the merits, though less evenly distributed in degree,
are equally constant in kind. In Kyd, in Greene still more, in Peele more still, in Marlowe
most of all, phrases and passages of blinding and dazzling poetry flash out of the midst of
the bombast and the tedium. Many of these are known, by the hundred books of extract which
have followed Lamb's Specimens, to all readers. Such, for instance, is the

    "See where Christ's blood streams in the firmament"

of Marlowe, and his even more magnificent passage beginning

    "If all the pens that ever poets held;"

such Peele's exquisite bower,

    "Seated in hearing of a hundred streams,"

which is, with all respect to Charles Lamb, to be paralleled by a score of other jewels from
the reckless work of "George Pyeboard": such Greene's

    "Why thinks King Henry's son that Margaret's love
    Hangs in the uncertain balance of proud time?"

such even Kyd's

    "There is a path upon your left hand side
    That leadeth from a guilty conscience
    Unto a forest of distrust and fear."

But the whole point of the thing is that these flashes, which are not to be found at all before
the date of this university school, are to be found constantly in its productions, and that,
amorphous, inartistic, incomplete as those productions are, they still show Hamlet and A Midsummer
Night's Dream in embryo. Whereas the greatest expert in literary embryology may read Gorboduc
and The Misfortunes of Arthur through without discerning the slightest signs of what was coming.

Nash and Lodge are so little dramatists (the chief, if not only play of the former being the
shapeless and rather dull comedy, Will Summer's Testament, relieved only by some lyrics of
merit which are probably not Nash's, while Lodge's Marius and Sylla, while it wants the extravagance,
wants also the beauty of its author's companions' work), that what has to be said about them
will be better said later in dealing with their other books. Greene's prose pieces and his
occasional poems are, no doubt, better than his drama, but the latter is considerable, and
was probably his earliest work. Kyd has left nothing, and Peele little, but drama; while beautiful
as Marlowe's Hero and Leander is, I do not quite understand how any one can prefer it to the
faultier but far more original dramas of its author. We shall therefore deal with these four
individually here.

The eldest of the four was George Peele, variously described as a Londoner and a Devonshire
man, who was probably born about 1558. He was educated at Christ's Hospital (of which his father
was "clerk") and at Broadgates Hall, now Pembroke College, Oxford, and had some credit in the
university as an arranger of pageants, etc. He is supposed to have left Oxford for London about
1581, and had the credit of living a Bohemian, not to say disreputable, life for about seventeen
years; his death in 1597(?) being not more creditable than his life. But even the scandals
about Peele are much more shadowy than those about Marlowe and Greene. His dramatic work consists
of some half-dozen plays, the earliest of which is The Arraignment of Paris, 1581(?), one of
the most elaborate and barefaced of the many contemporary flatteries of Elizabeth, but containing
some exquisite verse. In the same way Peele has been accused of having in Edward I. adopted
or perhaps even invented the basest and most groundless scandals against the noble and stainless
memory of Eleanor of Castile; while in his Battle of Alcazar he certainly gratifies to the
utmost the popular anti-Spanish and anti-Popish feeling. So angry have critics been with Peele's
outrage on Eleanor, that some of them have declared that none but he could have been guilty
of the not dissimilar slur cast on Joan of Arc's character in Henry VI., the three parts of
which it has been the good pleasure of Shakesperian commentators to cut and carve between the
University Wits ad libitum. I cannot myself help thinking that all this has arisen very much
from the idea of Peele's vagabondism given by the untrustworthy "Jests." The slander on Queen
Eleanor was pretty certainly supplied to him by an older ballad. There is little or nothing
else in Peele's undoubted writings which is at all discreditable. His miscellaneous poems show
a man by no means given to low company or low thoughts, and one gifted with the truest poetic
vein; while his dramas, besides exhibiting a greater command over blank verse than any of his
predecessors and than any except Marlowe of his contemporaries can claim, are full of charming
passages. Sir Clyomon and Sir Clamydes, which has been denied to him--an interesting play on
the rare basis of the old romance--is written not in blank verse but in the fourteener. The
Old Wives' Tale pretty certainly furnished Milton with the subject of Comus, and this is its
chief merit. Edward I. and The Battle of Alcazar, but especially the latter, contain abundance
of the hectoring rant which has been marked as one of the characteristics of the school, and
which is half-excused by the sparks of valour that often break from its smoke and clatter.
But Peele would undoubtedly stand higher, though he might not be so interesting a literary
figure, if we had nothing of his save The Arraignment of Paris and David and Bethsabe. The
Arraignment (written in various metres, but mainly in a musical and varied heroic couplet),
is partly a pastoral, partly a masque, and wholly a Court play. It thus comes nearest to Lyly,
but is altogether a more dramatic, livelier, and less conceited performance than anything by
the author of Euphues. As for David and Bethsabe, it is crammed with beauties, and Lamb's curiously
faint praise of it has always been a puzzle to me. As Marlowe's are the mightiest, so are Peele's
the softest, lines in the drama before Shakespere; while the spirit and humour, which the author
also had in plenty, save his work from the merely cloying sweetness of some contemporary writers.
Two of his interposed or occasional lyrics will be given later: a blank verse passage may find
room here:--

    Bethsabe. "Come, gentle Zephyr, trick'd with those perfumes
                That erst in Eden sweeten'd Adam's love,
                And stroke my bosom with thy silken fan:
                This shade, sun-proof,[21] is yet no proof for thee;
                Thy body, smoother than this waveless spring,
                And purer than the substance of the same,
                Can creep through that his lances cannot pierce:
                Thou, and thy sister, soft and sacred Air,
                Goddess of life, and governess of health,
                Keep every fountain fresh and arbour sweet;
                No brazen gate her passage can repulse,
                Nor bushy thicket bar thy subtle breath:
                Then deck thee with thy loose delightsome robes,
                And on thy wings bring delicate perfumes,
                To play the wanton with us through the leaves."

[21] Cf. Milton's "elms star-proof" in the Arcades. Milton evidently knew Peele well.

Robert Greene, probably, if not certainly, the next in age of the group to Peele, was born
in 1560, the son of apparently well-to-do parents at Norwich, and was educated at Clare Hall,
Cambridge, where he took his Master's degree in 1553. He was subsequently incorporated at Oxford,
and being by no means ill-inclined to make the most of himself, sometimes took the style of
a member "Utriusque Academiæ." After leaving the university he seems to have made a long tour
on the Continent, not (according to his own account) at all to the advantage of his morals
or means. He is said to have actually taken orders, and held a living for some short time,
while he perhaps also studied if he did not practise medicine. He married a lady of virtue
and some fortune, but soon despoiled and deserted her, and for the last six years of his life
never saw her. At last in 1592, aged only two and thirty,--but after about ten years it would
seem of reckless living and hasty literary production,--he died (of a disease caused or aggravated
by a debauch on pickled herrings and Rhenish) so miserably poor that he had to trust to his
injured wife's forgiveness for payment of the money to the extent of which a charitable landlord
and landlady had trusted him. The facts of this lamentable end may have been spitefully distorted
by Gabriel Harvey in his quarrel with Nash; but there is little reason to doubt that the received
story is in the main correct. Of the remarkable prose pamphlets which form the bulk of Greene's
work we speak elsewhere, as also of the pretty songs (considerably exceeding in poetical merit
anything to be found in the body of his plays) with which both pamphlets and plays are diversified.
His actual dramatic production is not inconsiderable: a working-up of the Orlando Furioso;
A Looking Glass for London and England (Nineveh) with Lodge; James IV. (of Scotland), a wildly
unhistorical romance; Alphonsus, King of Arragon; and perhaps The Pinner of Wakefield, which
deals with his own part namesake George-a-Greene; not impossibly also the pseudo-Shakesperian
Fair Em. His best play without doubt is The History of Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay, in which,
after a favourite fashion of the time, he mingles a certain amount of history, or, at least,
a certain number of historical personages, with a plentiful dose of the supernatural and of
horseplay, and with a very graceful and prettily-handled love story. With a few touches from
the master's hand, Margaret, the fair maid of Fressingfield, might serve as handmaid to Shakespere's
women, and is certainly by far the most human heroine produced by any of Greene's own group.
There is less rant in Greene (though there is still plenty of it) than in any of his friends,
and his fancy for soft female characters, loving, and yet virtuous, appears frequently. But
his power is ill-sustained, as the following extract will show:--

    Margaret. "Ah, father, when the harmony of heaven
                Soundeth the measures of a lively faith,
                The vain illusions of this flattering world
                Seem odious to the thoughts of Margaret.
                I lovèd once,--Lord Lacy was my love;
                And now I hate myself for that I loved,
                And doted more on him than on my God,--
                For this I scourge myself with sharp repents.
                But now the touch of such aspiring sins
                Tells me all love is lust but love of heaven;
                That beauty used for love is vanity:
                The world contains naught but alluring baits,
                Pride, flattery [    ], and inconstant thoughts.
                To shun the pricks of death I leave the world,
                And vow to meditate on heavenly bliss,
                To live in Framlingham a holy nun,
                Holy and pure in conscience and in deed;
                And for to wish all maids to learn of me
                To seek heaven's joy before earth's vanity." 

Probably his being thrown thus early in life into the discharge of onerous and important duties, had an
important effect in producing that firmness and maturity of judgment by which his mind was subsequently
distinguished. Some years afterwards, he gave a convincing proof of his fitness for the situation,
in the vigour with which he remonstrated against the imposition of a fresh tax on wine, which
had the effect of procuring its removal at the time, though the necessities of government led to its
being reimposed some years after. But his ardent mind was not confined to professional pursuits.
He concurred in the formation of an academy of sciences at Bourdeaux, and read some papers in it
on natural history; and his attention being in this way turned to physical science, he wrote and
published in the journals, a project for a "Physical History of the
Earth, Ancient and Modern."

But in
no human being was more completely exemplified the famous line--

"The
proper study of mankind is man."

Montesquieu's genius was essentially moral and political; it was on
man himself, not the material world with which he was surrounded,
that his thoughts were fixed.

                              
    
    This strong bent soon appeared in his
    writings. He next read at the academy at Bourdeaux,
    a "Life of the Duke of Berwick," and an "Essay on the Policy
    of the Romans in Religion," which was the basis
    of the immortal work
    
    which he afterwards composed on the rise and
    fall of that extraordinary people. These
    desultory essays gave no indication of the
    first considerable work which he published, which
    was the famous Lettres Persanes. They appeared in 1721,
    when he was
    
    thirty-two years of age. Their success was immediate
    and prodigious; a certain indication in matters of thought, that
they were not destined to durable fame.
    

They fell in with the ideas and passions of the time; they were not before
it; thence their early popularity and ultimate oblivion.

The work was published anonymously; for the keen but delicate satire
on French manners and vices which it contained, might have endangered
the author, and as it was he had no small difficulty, when it was
known he was the writer, in escaping from its effects.

    
    
    
    
    It consists in a series of letters from an imaginary
    character, Usbeck, a Persian traveller, detailing
    the vices, manners, and customs of the
    French metropolis. The ingenuity, sarcasm,
    and truth, which that once celebrated
    production contains, must
    
    not make us shut our eyes to its glaring defects; the vices of the
age, as they mainly contributed to its early popularity, have been
the chief cause of its subsequent decline.
    

It contains many passages improperly warm and voluptuous, and some which, under the mask of
attacks on the Jesuits, had the appearance, at least, of being levelled
at religion itself.

No work, at that period, could attract attention in France which was not disfigured by these blemishes.
Even the great mind of Montesquieu, in its first essay before the public, did not escape the contagion
of the age.

But, erelong, the genius of this profound thinker was devoted to more
congenial and worthy objects. In 1726, he sold his office of president
of the parliament of Bourdeaux, partly in order to escape from the toils
of legal pursuit and judicial business, which, in that mercantile
and rising community, was attended with great labour; partly in order
to be enabled to travel, and study the institutions and character of
different nations--a pursuit of which he was passionately fond, and which,
without doubt, had a powerful effect in giving him that vast command
of detached facts in political science, and that liberal view of
institutions, habits, and manners, differing in some degree from his
own, by which his philosophical writings are so eminently distinguished.

Here, as in the biography of almost all other really great men, it
is found, that some circumstances apparently trivial or accidental
have given a permanent bent to their mind; have stored it with the
appropriate knowledge, and turned it, as it were, into the allotted
sphere, and contributed to form the matrix in which original thought
was formed, and new truth communicated by Providence to mankind.

In the course of his travels, which lasted several years, he visited successively Austria, Hungary, Italy,
Switzerland, the Rhine, Flanders, Holland, and England--in the latter of which he lived two years. During
these varied travels, he made notes on all the countries which he visited, which contributed largely
to the great stock of political information which he possessed. These notes are still extant; but,
unfortunately, not in such a state of maturity as to admit of publication.

On his return to France, which took place in 1732, he retired to his
native chateau of La Brede, and commenced in good earnest the great
business of his life.

Great and original as this work--the most perfect of all his compositions--was, it did not give vent
to the whole ideas which filled his capacious mind.

Rome, great as it was, was but a single state; it was the comparison with other states, the development
of the general principles which run through the jurisprudence and
institutions of all nations, which occupied his thoughts.

The success which attended his essay on the institutions and progress of a single people, encouraged him to enlarge
his views and extend his labours. He came to embrace the whole known world, civilized
and uncivilized, in his plan; and after fourteen years of assiduous
labours and toil, the immortal "Spirit of Laws" appeared.

The history of Montesquieu's mind, during the progress of this great
work, is singularly curious and interesting.

At times he wrote to his friends that his great work advanced "à pas de géant;" at others, he was depressed
by the slow progress which it made, and overwhelmed by the prodigious mass of materials which required
to be worked into its composition. So distrustful was he of its success, even after the vast labour
he had employed in its composition, that he sent his manuscript before
publication to a friend on whose judgment he could rely--Helvetius.

That friend, notwithstanding all his penetration, was so mistaken in his reckoning, that he conceived the most serious
disquietude as to the ruin of Montesquieu's reputation by the publication of such a work. Such was his alarm
that he did not venture to write to the author on the subject, but gave the manuscript to another critic,
Saurin, the author of a work entitled Spartacus, long since extinct, who
passed the same judgment upon it. Both concurred in thinking that the
reputation of Montesquieu would be entirely ruined by the publication of
the new manuscript; the brilliant author of the semi-voluptuous,
semi-infidel Lettres Persanes, would sink into a mere Legist, a dull
commentator on pandects and statutes, if he published the Esprit des
Loix, "That," said Helvetius, "is what afflicts me for him, and for
humanity, which he was so well qualified to have served."

It was agreed between them that Helvetius should write to Montesquieu to give him an account of their joint
opinion, that he should not give the work to the world in its present state. Saurin, with some reason, was
afraid that Montesquieu would be hurt at their communication; but Helvetius wrote to him--"Be not uneasy; he is
not hurt at our advice; he loves frankness in his friends. He is willing to bear with discussions,
but answers only by sallies, and rarely changes his opinions.

I have not given him ours from any idea that he would either change his conduct or modify his preconceived
ideas, but from a sense of the duty of sincerity cost what it will, with friends. When the light of
truth shall have dispelled the illusions of self-love, he will at least not be able to reproach
us with having been less indulgent than the public."

Montesquieu, however, was not discouraged. He sent his manuscript
to the press with hardly any alteration, and took for his motto, Prolem
sine matre creatam;[1] in allusion to the originality of his conception,
and the total want of any previous model on which it had been formed.

The work appeared in the month of July 1748; and its success, so far as the sale went, was prodigious. Before
two years had elapsed, it had gone through twenty-two editions, and
been translated into most of the European languages.

This early success, rare in works of profound and original thought, showed, that though it was in advance of
the age, it was but a little in advance; and that it had struck a key which was ready to vibrate in
the national mind.

Like all distinguished works, if it was much read and admired by some, it was as keenly criticized
and cut to pieces by others.

Madame de Deffand said it was not the Esprit des Loix he had written, but Esprit sur les Loix.
This expression made a great noise; it had a certain degree of truth, just enough, when coupled
with epigrammatic brevity, to make the fortune of the sayer. Encouraged by its success, the enemies of original
genius, ever ready to assail it, united their forces, and Montesquieu was soon the object of
repeated and envenomed attacks. It was said, that to establish certain
favourite theories, he availed himself of the testimony of travellers
obscure and of doubtful credit; that he leapt too rapidly from particulars
to general conclusions; that he ascribed to the influence of climate
and physical laws what was in fact the result of moral or political
causes; that he had split the same subject into small chapters, so
confusedly arranged that there was no order or system in the work;
that it was still incomplete, and wanted the master-hand which was
to put it together; and that it resembled the detached pieces of a
mosaic pavement, each of which is fair or brilliant in itself, but
which have no meaning or expression till disposed by the taste and
skill of the artist.

There was some truth in all these criticisms; it is rare that it is otherwise
with the reproaches made against a work of original thought. Envy generally
discovers a blot to hit. Malignity is seldom at a loss for some blemish
to point out.

It is by exaggerating slight defects, and preserving silence on great merits, that literary jealousy
ever tries to work out its wretched spite. The wisdom of an author is not to resent or overlook, but in silence to
profit by such sallies; converting thus the industry and envy of his enemies into a source of advantage to
himself.

Montesquieu, in pursuance of these principles, passed over in silence
the malignant attacks of a herd of critics, whose works are now buried
in the charnel-house of time, but who strove with all the fury of
envy and disappointment to extinguish his rising fame.

When pressed by some of his friends to answer some of these attacks, he replied--"It is unnecessary;
I am sufficiently avenged on some by the neglect of the public, on others by its indignation." The only instance
in which he deviated from this wise resolution was in replying to the attacks
of an anonymous critic, who, in a Journal entitled the Nouvelles Ecclesiastiques,
had represented him as an atheist. In his Lettres Persanes, though
he had never assailed the great principles of his religion, he had, in
his sallies against the Jesuits, gone far to warrant the belief that
he was inclined to do so; and had already done enough in the estimation
of the tyrannical and bigoted ecclesiastics who at that period ruled the
Church of France, to warrant his being included in the class of infidel
writers.

But his mind, chastened by years, enlightened by travelling and reflection, had come to cast off
these prejudices of his age and country, the necessary result of
the Romish tyranny by which it had been oppressed, but unworthy of
an intellect of such grasp and candour.

In the Protestant countries of Europe, particularly Holland and England, he had seen the working of
Christianity detached from the rigid despotism by which the Church
of Rome fetters belief, and the well-conceived appliances by which
it stimulates imagination, and opens a refuge for frailty.

Impressed with the new ideas thus awakened in his mind, he had in his Esprit des Loix pronounced a studious
and sincere eulogium on Christianity; recommending it, not only as the
most perfect of all systems of religious belief, but as the only
secure basis of social order and improvement.

It was material to correct the impression, partly just, partly erroneous, which his earlier and more
indiscreet writings had produced; and with this view he wrote and published his Defence
de l' Esprit des Loix.

This little piece is a model of just and candid reasoning, accompanied with a refined and delicate vein
of ridicule, which disarmed opposition without giving ground for
resentment.

He congratulated himself on the fine satire with which he had overthrown his enemies.--"What pleases
me in my Defence, is not so much," said he, "to have floored the Ecclesiastics, as to have let them
fall so gently." Posterity will find a more valuable charm in this little production; it is, that
the author in it has unconsciously painted himself. His contemporaries have recorded, that in reading it
they could believe they heard the writer speak; and this proves that his talents in conversation had been
equal to those he displayed in writing--a combination very rare in persons of the highest class
in literature.

The fame of Montesquieu, great as it was in his own country, was even
greater in foreign ones.

In Great Britain in particular, the Esprit des Loix early acquired a prodigious reputation. It was
read and admired by all persons of thought and education. This was partly the consequence of England being so much
in advance of France in the career of liberty--alike in matters civil and ecclesiastical. The
new ideas, hardy thoughts, and original conceptions of the great work met with a ready reception, and cordial
admiration, in the land of freedom and the Reformation--in the country where meditation had so long
been turned to political subjects, contemplation to religious truth. But another cause of lasting
influence also contributed to the same effect. Original genius is ever more readily and willingly
admired in foreign states than its own: a prophet has no honour in
his own country.

He interferes too much with existing influences or reputations. To foreigners, he is more remote--more
like a dead man. Human vanity is less hurt by his elevation.

The latter years of Montesquieu's life were spent almost entirely in
retirement at his paternal chateau of La Brede, varied occasionally by
visits to the great world at Paris.

He was occupied in agriculture and gardening--tenacious of his seignorial
rights, but indulgent to the last degree to his tenantry, by whom he
was adored. Never was exemplified in a more remarkable manner the soothing
influence of the recollections of a well-spent life on the felicity of its later
years, or the fountains of happiness which may be opened in the breast
itself from the calm serenity of conscious power and great achievement.

    He conversed much, with the farmers and peasants on his estate, whose
houses he frequently entered, and whose convivialities, on occasion of a marriage
or a birth, he seldom failed to attend.

He often preferred their conversation to that of persons their superiors
in rank or information--"for," said he, "they are not learned enough
to enter into argument; they only tell you what they know, which frequently
you do not know yourself."

Though
he lived with the great when in Paris, partly from necessity, partly from inclination, yet their society
was noways necessary to his happiness.

He flew as soon as he could from their brilliant assemblies to the retirement of his estate, where he
found with joy, philosophy, books, and repose.
 These, slightly changed from blank
verse to rhyme, appeared long afterwards with his minor poems of 1590. But the original pieces
had been claimed by the Dutchman; and though there are easy ways of explaining this, the thing
is curious. However it may be with these verses, certainly nothing else of Spenser's appeared
in print for ten years. His Cambridge life, except for some vague allusions (which, as usual
in such cases, have been strained to breaking by commentators and biographers), is equally
obscure; save that he certainly fulfilled seven years of residence, taking his Bachelor's Degree
in 1573, and his Master's three years later. But he did not gain a fellowship, and the chief
discoverable results of his Cambridge sojourn were the thorough scholarship which marks his
work, and his friendship with the notorious Gabriel Harvey--his senior by some years, a Fellow
of Pembroke, and a person whose singularly bad literary taste, as shown in his correspondence
with Spenser, may be perhaps forgiven, first, because it did no harm, and secondly, because
without him we should know even less of Spenser than we do. It is reasonably supposed from
the notes of his friend, "E. K." (apparently Kirke, a Pembroke man), to The Shepherd's Calendar,
that he went to his friends in the north after leaving Cambridge and spent a year or two there,
falling in love with the heroine, poetically named Rosalind, of The Calendar, and no doubt
writing that remarkable book. Then (probably very late in 1578) he went to London, was introduced
by Harvey to Sidney and Leicester, and thus mixed at once in the best literary and political
society. He was not long in putting forth his titles to its attention, for The Shepherd's Calendar
was published in the winter of 1579, copiously edited by "E. K.," whom some absurdly suppose
to be Spenser himself. The poet seems to have had also numerous works (the titles of which
are known) ready or nearly ready for the press. But all were subsequently either changed in
title, incorporated with other work, or lost. He had already begun The Faërie Queene, much
to the pedant Harvey's disgust; and he dabbled in the fashionable absurdity of classical metres,
like his inferiors. But he published nothing more immediately; and powerful as were his patrons,
the only preferment which he obtained was in that Eldorado-Purgatory of Elizabethan ambition--Ireland.
Lord Grey took him as private secretary when he was in 1580 appointed deputy, and shortly afterwards
he received some civil posts in his new country, and a lease of abbey lands at Enniscorthy,
which lease he soon gave up. But he stayed in Ireland, notwithstanding the fact that his immediate
patron Grey soon left it. Except a few bare dates and doubtful allusions, little or nothing
is heard of him between 1580 and 1590. On the eve of the latter year (the 1st of December 1589)
the first three books of The Faërie Queene were entered at Stationers' Hall, and were published
in the spring of the next year. He had been already established at Kilcolman in the county
Cork on a grant of more than three thousand acres of land out of the forfeited Desmond estates.
And henceforward his literary activity, at least in publication, became more considerable,
and he seems to have been much backwards and forwards between England and Ireland. In 1590
appeared a volume of minor poems (The Ruins of Time, The Tears of the Muses, Virgil's Gnat,
Mother Hubbard's Tale, The Ruins of Rome, Muiopotmos, and the Visions), with an address to
the reader in which another list of forthcoming works is promised. These, like the former list
of Kirke, seem oddly enough to have also perished. The whole collection was called Complaints,
and a somewhat similar poem, Daphnaida, is thought to have appeared in the same year. On the
11th of June 1594 the poet married (strangely enough it was not known whom, until Dr. Grosart
ingeniously identified her with a certain Elizabeth Boyle alias Seckerstone), and in 1595 were
published the beautiful Amoretti or love sonnets, and the still more beautiful Epithalamion
describing his courtship and marriage, with the interesting poem of Colin Clout's Come Home
Again; while in the same year (old style; in January 1596, new style) the fourth, fifth, and
sixth books of The Faërie Queene were entered for publication and soon appeared. The estate of La
Brede had been long in his family, which was a very ancient one; it had been erected into a barony
in favour of Jacob de Secondat, his great-great-grandfather, by Henry IV. The office of President of the Parliament
(or Local Court of Justice) of Bourdeaux, had been acquired by his family in consequence of the
marriage of his father with the daughter of the first president of that tribunal. From his earliest
years young Montesquieu evinced remarkable readiness and vivacity of mind; a circumstance which determined
his father to breed him up to the "magistracy," as it was termed in France--a profession midway,
as it were, between the career of arms peculiar to the noble, and the labours of the bar confined
to persons of plebeian origin, and from which many of the greatest men, and nearly all the distinguished
statesmen of France took their rise. Montesquieu entered with the characteristic ardour of his disposition into
the studies suited for that destination; and at the age of twenty
he had already collected the materials of the Esprit des Loix, and
evinced the characteristic turn of his mind for generalization, by
an immense digest which he had made of the civil law.

But these dry, though important studies, did not exclusively occupy
his mind; he carried on, at the same time, a great variety of other
pursuits.

Like all men of an active and intellectual turn of mind, his recreation was found not in repose, but
in change of occupation.

Books of voyages and travels were collected, and read with avidity; he devoured rather than read
the classical remains of Greece and Rome. "That antiquity," said he, "enchants me, and I am
always ready to say with Pliny--You are going to Athens; show respect
to the gods."

It was under this feeling of devout gratitude to the master minds of the ancient world, that he made
his first essay in literature, which came out in a small work in the form of letters, the object of which
was to show, that the idolatry of most Pagans did of itself not merit eternal damnation. Probably
there are few good Christians, from Fénélon and Tillotson downwards, who will be of an opposite opinion.
Even in that juvenile production are to be found traces of the sound judgment, correct taste, and general
thought which characterised his later works. But he was soon thrown
into the proper labours of his profession. On the 24th February 1714,
he was admitted into the parliament of Bourdeaux as a councillor; and his paternal
uncle, who held the president's chair, having died two years after,
young Montesquieu was, on the 13th July 1716, appointed to that important
office, though only twenty-seven years of age. Probably his being thrown
thus early in life into the discharge of onerous and important duties,
had an important effect in producing that firmness and maturity of
judgment by which his mind was subsequently distinguished. Already we can see in it that double command, at once of
the pictorial and the musical elements of poetry, in which no English poet is Spenser's superior,
if any is his equal. Already the unmatched power of vigorous allegory, which he was to display
later, shows in such pieces as The Oak and the Briar. In the less deliberately archaic divisions,
such as "April" and "November," the command of metrical form, in which also the poet is almost
peerless, discovers itself. Much the same may be said of the volume of Complaints, which, though
published later than The Faërie Queene, represents beyond all question very much earlier work.
Spenser is unquestionably, when he is not at once spurred and soothed by the play of his own
imagination, as in The Queene, a melancholy poet, and the note of melancholy is as strong in
these poems as in their joint title. It combines with his delight in emblematic allegory happily
enough, in most of these pieces except Mother Hubbard's Tale. This is almost an open satire,
and shows that if Spenser's genius had not found a less mongrel style to disport itself in,
not merely would Donne, and Lodge, and Hall, and Marston have had to abandon their dispute
for the post of first English satirist, but the attainment of really great satire in English
might have been hastened by a hundred years, and Absalom and Achitophel have been but a second.
Even here, however, the piece still keeps the Chaucerian form and manner, and is only a kind
of exercise. The sonnets from and after Du Bellay and others are more interesting. As in the
subsequent and far finer Amoretti, Spenser prefers the final couplet form to the so-called
Petrarchian arrangement; and, indeed, though the most recent fashion in England has inclined
to the latter, an impartial judgment must pronounce both forms equally good and equally entitled
to place. The Amoretti written in this metre, and undoubtedly representing some, at least,
of Spenser's latest written work, rank with the best of Sidney's, and hardly below the best
of Shakespere's; while both in them and in the earlier sonnets the note of regret mingled with
delight--the special Renaissance note--sounds as it rarely does in any other English verse.
Of the poems of the later period, however (leaving The Faërie Queene for a moment aside), the
Epithalamion and the Four Hymns rank undoubtedly highest. For splendour of imagery, for harmony
of verse, for delicate taste and real passion, the Epithalamion excels all other poems of its
class, and the Four Hymns express a rapture of Platonic enthusiasm, which may indeed be answerable
for the unreadable Psyches and Psychozoias of the next age, but which is itself married to
immortal verse in the happiest manner.

Still, to the ordinary reader, Spenser is the poet of The Faërie Queene, and for once the ordinary
reader is right. Every quality found in his other poems is found in this greatest of them in
perfection; and much is found there which is not, and indeed could not be, found anywhere else.
Its general scheme is so well known (few as may be the readers who really know its details)
that very slight notice of it may suffice. Twelve knights, representing twelve virtues, were
to have been sent on adventures from the Court of Gloriana, Queen of Fairyland. The six finished
books give the legends (each subdivided into twelve cantos, averaging fifty or sixty stanzas
each) of Holiness, Temperance, Chastity, Friendship, Justice, and Courtesy; while a fragment
of two splendid "Cantos on Mutability" is supposed to have belonged to a seventh book (not
necessarily seventh in order) on Constancy. Legend has it that the poem was actually completed;
but this seems improbable, as the first three books were certainly ten years in hand, and the
second three six more. The existing poem comprehending some four thousand stanzas, or between
thirty and forty thousand lines, exhibits so many and such varied excellences that it is difficult
to believe that the poet could have done anything new in kind. No part of it is as a whole
inferior to any other part, and the fragmentary cantos contain not merely one of the most finished
pictorial pieces--the Procession of the Months--to be found in the whole poem, but much of
the poet's finest thought and verse. Had fortune been kinder, the volume of delight would have
been greater, but its general character would probably not have changed much. As it is, The
Faërie Queene is the only long poem that a lover of poetry can sincerely wish longer.

It deserves some critical examination here from three points of view, regarding respectively
its general scheme, its minor details of form in metre and language, and lastly, its general
poetical characteristics. The first is simple enough in its complexity. The poem is a long
Roman d'Aventure (which it is perhaps as well to say, once for all, is not the same as a "Romance
of Chivalry," or a "Romance of Adventure"), redeemed from the aimless prolixity incident to
that form by its regular plan, by the intercommunion of the adventures of the several knights
(none of whom disappears after having achieved his own quest), and by the constant presence
of a not too obtrusive allegory. This last characteristic attaches it on the other side to
the poems of the Roman de la Rose order, which succeeded the Romans d'Aventures as objects
of literary interest and practice, not merely in France, but throughout Europe. This allegory
has been variously estimated as a merit or defect of the poem. It is sometimes political, oftener
religious, very often moral, and sometimes purely personal--the identifications in this latter
case being sometimes clear, as that of Gloriana, Britomart, and Belphoebe with Queen Elizabeth,
sometimes probable, as that of Duessa with Queen Mary (not one of Spenser's most knightly actions),
and of Prince Arthur with Leicester, and sometimes more or less problematical, as that of Artegall
with Lord Grey, of Timias the Squire with Raleigh, and so forth. To those who are perplexed
by these double meanings the best remark is Hazlitt's blunt one that "the allegory won't bite
them." In other words, it is always perfectly possible to enjoy the poem without troubling
oneself about the allegory at all, except in its broad ethical features, which are quite unmistakable.
On the other hand, I am inclined to think that the presence of these under-meanings, with the
interest which they give to a moderately instructed and intelligent person who, without too
desperate a determination to see into millstones, understands "words to the wise," is a great
addition to the hold of the poem over the attention, and saves it from the charge of mere desultoriness,
which some, at least, of the other greatest poems of the kind (notably its immediate exemplar,
the Orlando Furioso) must undergo. And here it may be noted that the charge made by most foreign
critics who have busied themselves with Spenser, and perhaps by some of his countrymen, that
he is, if not a mere paraphrast, yet little more than a transplanter into English of the Italian,
is glaringly uncritical. Not, perhaps, till Ariosto and Tasso have been carefully read in the
original, is Spenser's real greatness understood. He has often, and evidently of purpose, challenged
comparison; but in every instance it will be found that his beauties are emphatically his own.
He has followed his leaders only as Virgil has followed Homer; and much less slavishly.

It is strange to find English critics of this great if not greatest English poem even nowadays
repeating that Spenser borrowed his wonderful stanza from the Italians. He did nothing of the
kind. That the ottava rima on the one hand, and the sonnet on the other, may have suggested
the idea of it is quite possible. But the Spenserian stanza, as it is justly called, is his
own and no one else's, and its merits, especially that primal merit of adaptation to the subject
and style of the poem, are unique. Nothing else could adapt itself so perfectly to the endless
series of vignettes and dissolving views which the poet delights in giving; while, at the same
time, it has, for so elaborate and apparently integral a form, a singular faculty of hooking
itself on to stanzas preceding and following, so as not to interrupt continuous narrative when
continuous narrative is needed. Its great compass, admitting of an almost infinite variety
of cadence and composition, saves it from the monotony from which even the consummate art of
Milton could not save blank verse now and then, and from which no writer has ever been able
to save the couplet, or the quatrain, or the stanzas ending with a couplet, in narratives of
very great length. But the most remarkable instance of harmony between metrical form and other
characteristics, both of form and matter, in the metrist has yet to be mentioned. It has been
said how well the stanza suits Spenser's pictorial faculty; it certainly suits his musical
faculty as well. The slightly (very slightly, for he can be vigorous enough) languid turn of
his grace, the voluptuous cadences of his rhythm, find in it the most perfect exponent possible.
The verse of great poets, especially Homer's, has often been compared to the sea. Spenser's
is more like a river, wide, and deep, and strong, but moderating its waves and conveying them
all in a steady, soft, irresistible sweep forwards. To aid him, besides this extraordinary
instrument of metre, he had forged for himself another in his language. A great deal has been
written on this--comments, at least of the unfavourable kind, generally echoing Ben Jonson's
complaint that Spenser "writ no language"; that his dialect is not the dialect of any actual
place or time, that it is an artificial "poetic diction" made up of Chaucer, and of Northern
dialect, and of classicisms, and of foreign words, and of miscellaneous archaisms from no matter
where. No doubt it is. But if any other excuse than the fact of a beautiful and satisfactory
effect is wanted for the formation of a poetic diction different from the actually spoken or
the ordinarily written tongue of the day (and I am not sure that any such excuse is required)
it is to be found at once. There was no actually spoken or ordinarily written tongue in Spenser's
day which could claim to be "Queen's English." Chaucer was obsolete, and since Chaucer there
was no single person who could even pretend to authority. Every writer more or less endowed
with originality was engaged in beating out for himself, from popular talk, and from classical
or foreign analogy, an instrument of speech. Spenser's verse language and Lyly's prose are
the most remarkable results of the process; but it was, in fact, not only a common but a necessary
one, and in no way to be blamed. As for the other criterion hinted at above, no one is likely
to condemn the diction according to that. In its remoteness without grotesqueness, in its lavish
colour, in its abundance of matter for every kind of cadence and sound-effect, it is exactly
suited to the subject, the writer, and the verse.

It is this singular and complete adjustment of worker and implement which, with other peculiarities
noted or to be noted, gives The Faërie Queene its unique unicity, if such a conceit may be
pardoned. From some points of view it might be called a very artificial poem, yet no poem runs
with such an entire absence of effort, with such an easy eloquence, with such an effect, as
has been said already, of flowing water. With all his learning, and his archaisms, and his
classicisms, and his Platonisms, and his isms without end, hardly any poet smells of the lamp
less disagreeably than Spenser. Where Milton forges and smelts, his gold is native. The endless,
various, brightly-coloured, softly and yet distinctly outlined pictures rise and pass before
the eyes and vanish--the multiform, sweetly-linked, softly-sounding harmonies swell and die
and swell again on the ear--without a break, without a jar, softer than sleep and as continuous,
gayer than the rainbow and as undiscoverably connected with any obvious cause. And this is
the more remarkable because the very last thing that can be said of Spenser is that he is a
poet of mere words. Milton himself, the severe Milton, extolled his moral teaching; his philosophical
idealism is evidently no mere poet's plaything or parrot-lesson, but thoroughly thought out
and believed in. He is a determined, almost a savage partisan in politics and religion, a steady
patriot, something of a statesman, very much indeed of a friend and a lover. And of all this
there is ample evidence in his verse. Yet the alchemy of his poetry has passed through the
potent alembics of verse and phrase all these rebellious things, and has distilled them into
the inimitably fluent and velvet medium which seems to lull some readers to inattention by
its very smoothness, and deceive others into a belief in its lack of matter by the very finish
and brilliancy of its form. The show passages of the poem which are most generally known--the
House of Pride, the Cave of Despair, the Entrance of Belphoebe, the Treasury of Mammon, the
Gardens of Acrasia, the Sojourn of Britomart in Busirane's Castle, the Marriage of the Thames
and Medway, the Discovery of the False Florimel, Artegall and the Giant, Calidore with Meliboeus,
the Processions of the Seasons and the Months--all these are not, as is the case with so many
other poets, mere purple patches, diversifying and relieving dullness, but rather remarkable,
and as it happens easily separable examples of a power which is shown constantly and almost
evenly throughout. Those who admire them do well; but they hardly know Spenser. He, more than
almost any other poet, must be read continuously and constantly till the eye and ear and mind
have acquired the freedom of his realm of enchantment, and have learnt the secret (as far as
a mere reader may learn it) of the poetical spells by which he brings together and controls
its wonders. CVII.), when Sir William Harcourt was represented as an artilleryman mowing down
the host of amendments put upon the paper against the Irish Evictions Bill with a Gatling gun
labelled "Closure." Closure had, indeed, been promised, and upon that
the cartoon was based; but the Tory tactics threw out all calculations,
for the party declined to move their amendments, and took no further
part in the proceedings, so that there was no question whatever of
closure.

The Bill passed en bloc, and the Gatling remained silent.

Finally, there is that class of cartoon always graceful in intention,
and invariably received by the public with respect and approval--the
Obituary Cartoon.

It was invented by Punch when Wellington died. The nation was overpowered with a sense of its
loss, and Punch, with his finger, as ever, on the public pulse, reflected the national emotion with a deep
and noble sincerity that was gratefully felt and recognised.

From that day onwards the great occasions of a people's loss--either
of our own mourning or of our sympathy with that of others--have
been touched with a dignity and grace in accord with their lofty and
solemn purpose, in drawings which have rarely failed to touch a responsive
chord in the people's heart, and which, judged as compositions, have
often marked the highest point to which Sir John Tenniel's art has
reached.

FOOTNOTES:

[16] Contributed one cartoon on July 12th, 1884, and another November
3rd, 1894, when the expected death of the Tsar Alexander III., on
the subject of which Sir John Tenniel's cartoon had been prepared,
did not occur.

"Cartoon Junior" was then promoted to "Cartoon Senior."

CHAPTER VIII.

CARTOONS AND THEIR EFFECT.

Were you to ask the Editor, Staff, or Proprietors of Punch whether they regarded the political or the social
section of the paper as the more important, from the public point of view and their own, the answer
would probably be--that they could not tell you. Power and popularity,
even in a newspaper--especially in a newspaper--are not synonymous
terms, and a great circulation does not necessarily carry influence
along with it.

It may safely be taken that while the social section of Punch, artistic
and literary combined, earned for him his vast popularity, his power,
which at one time was great almost beyond present belief, was obtained
chiefly by his political satires with pen and pencil.

Nowadays, no doubt, their relative importance is more evenly balanced, and what preponderating interest the
cartoon may have for "Pater" is equalled by the special fascination
exercised by the social picture over "familias."

It has been the mission of Punch, as of many another great and original
writer, to invent and import into the language words and expressions
which are surely destined to remain.

It has already been recorded how it was he who christened the great conservatory now at Sydenham "The
Crystal Palace"--though he was not so complimentary until he had cultivated the personal friendship of
Sir Joseph Paxton over the "Daily News" affair. It is he who, in his most laconic manner, has given his immortal counsel
for all time to intending mariés; it is he who has crystallised the exaggerated idea of Scottish thrift
and economy in "bang went saxpence"--to the circumstances of all
of which I have already referred.

Mr. Punch, in short, has left the English language richer than he
found it, not only in word, but in idea. So, again, the present application
of the word "cartoon" is in reality a creation of Punch's.

At the birth of the modern satirical print--that is to say, in the reign of Charles
I.--we see it called "A Mad Designe;" eighty years later, when George II.
was King, it was known as a "hieroglyphic;" and then onwards, through
the caustic and venomous days of the mighty Gillray and Rowlandson,
and even of George Cruikshank, and their contemporaries, "caricature"
was the term applied to the separate copper-plate broadsides that
were issued, crudely coloured, from the famous shops of Mrs. Humphreys,
of Ackermann, of Fores, and of McLean, and displayed in their windows
to the delight and savage applause of a laughing crowd.

Then "HB" had followed, Dicky Doyle's clever father, whose political lithographs had begun to
appear in 1830, and continued until 1851--ceased, that is to say, when Punch was ten years old. The wonder about
them was that, even before the days of photography, the likenesses of his subjects were so admirable,
and his thrusts so happy, while his art, criticised strictly, was so very poor and amateurish. But
as exaggeration found no trace in his designs, and his compositions aimed at raising little more
than a suspicion of a smile in the beholder (save in the subjects of them), the word "cartoon"
was more applicable to them than to any that preceded or have followed
them.

Mr. Austin Dobson, it is true, speaks of them as "caricatures;" but their publisher more correctly
defined them as "Political Sketches."

Then, after the little wood-cut "caricatures" by Robert Seymour, came Punch
with his full-page designs. Announced also as "caricatures," for a long
while they were known as "pencillings;" but it was some time before they
became an invariable feature of the paper.

For several consecutive weeks, indeed, in 1843 there was no full-page cut at all, until John Leech recommenced
them with a series of "Social Miseries," the first of which represented
"Thoughts during Pastorale."

But the most successful and the best remembered was "The Pleasures
of Folding Doors" when "The Battle of Prague" is being thumped out
relentlessly on the other side.

Now
in July of 1843 the first great exhibition of cartoons for the Houses of Parliament was held.
These gigantic designs handled the loftiest subjects, executed in
the most elevated spirit of the highest art, with a view to ultimate
execution in fresco on the walls of the palace of Westminster.

It was not in nature for Punch to allow so excellent an opportunity to pass by without taking sarcastic
advantage of it. He--conformably with his rôle of Sir Oracle, omniscient
and omnifarious--must have his "cartoons" too; and so on p. 22 of
the second volume for the same year (No. 105 of the journal) he appeared
with No. 1 of his series.

It was from Leech's pencil, entitled "Substance and Shadow," with
the legend "The Poor ask for Bread, and the Philanthropy of the State
accords--an Exhibition."

The cartoon represents a humble crowd of needy visitors to the exhibition of pictures on a suggested "free
day," in accordance with the recommendation of the Government.

This design, a suggestion of Jerrold's, affords an excellent example of the warm-hearted, wrong-headed
sympathy with the poor which led him so often cruelly to misjudge and misrepresent the acts
and lives of persons in authority whose views were not, like his own,
spontaneously, kindly, and impulsively unpractical. The series of
six cartoons was directed against abuses, the last, dealing with
the subject of duelling, being entitled "The Satisfaction of a Gentleman"--in
which two duellists appear attended by seconds wearing caps and bells,
while the hangman awaits the victor in one corner, and Death digs
a grave for his victim in the other.

After this series Punch for a long while dropped the word "cartoon,"
but the public remembered it, and has clung to it ever since. It is
a remarkable thing that while the "Encyclopædic Dictionary" entirely
ignores the word in its modern application to satirical prints, Dr. Murray's
monumental lexicon has as its earliest use of the word a reference
made by Miss Braddon to Leech's cartoons in the year 1863--or twenty
years after it was first coined!

But the very first number of Punch, as we have seen, rejoiced in a cartoon
as we now understand it--that is to say, a large full-page or double-page
block of a satirical nature, usually placed in the middle opening
of the paper, and for the most part still further dignified by being
"unbacked" by other printing.

It has been stated that Henry Mayhew at the very beginning insisted on this being a special feature
of the paper, defeating the opposition of "Daddy"

Landells, who was all for a number of little "coots," as he pronounced
them, sprinkled plentifully over the pages.

But inasmuch as Landells was an engraver, who would have delighted in the opportunity offered to his apprentices
by a "big cut," as he was anxious above all things to follow the
Paris "Charivari"

(the very raison d'être of which was the large political cartoon),
and as, moreover, the original "dummy" of the paper makes provision
for such a cartoon, the statement is not to be accepted.

It was really a poor thing, that first cartoon--"Candidates under Different
Phases;" but it possessed over the little "caricatures" by Robert
Seymour in Gilbert à Beckett's "Figaro in London," that had gone before,
the important advantage of size.

It was smaller than the hideously vulgar cuts in the "Penny Satirist,"
but--in tone, at least--this harmless satire on Parliamentary candidates
displayed a refreshing and a highly appreciated decency and moderation.

And since that time, whether satirical or frankly funny, sarcastic
or witty, compassionate or denunciatory, eulogistic, sympathetic, indignant,
or merely expository, the cartoons have rarely overstepped the boundary
of good taste, or done aught but express fearlessly, honestly, and
so far as may be gracefully, the popular feeling of the moment.

It is just this happy ability of Punch's to reflect the opinion of
the country that gave it the great power it attained and won it the
respect of every successive Government.

It is true that of late years Mr. Punch has rather followed public opinion than led it; and it is
equally true that he now represents a higher stratum of society than at first, when Jerrold week after week
pleaded the cause of the poor.

"What Punch says" appears to be a good deal to the Great Ones of our
world, thick-skinned though they be; for even outside politics, they
have, generally speaking, accepted as an axiom "Vox Punchii, vox Populi;"
while Cabinet Ministers, from the Premier downwards, have hoped from
his benevolence and feared from his hostility!

When Mr. Mundella publicly declared that "Punch is almost the most dangerous antagonist that a
politician could have opposed to him--for myself I would rather have
Punch at my back in any political or social undertaking than half
the politicians of the House of Commons," he was merely expressing
a conviction on the part of statesmen that many of them have given
evidence of.

It is another proof of the power of the caricaturist--a very proper
respect for the smile which brings popularity and for the ridicule
which kills.

We all know the effect of Gillray's, Rowlandson's, and George Cruikshank's
etching-needles upon their victims--how these latter would writhe
under a stab that was often virulent in its brutality, merciless,
scurrilous, and cruel.

We know how money passed--at least, in their earlier years--to influence the political opinions of the caricaturists,
less in the hope of damaging "the other side" than with the view to diluting with a little milk
of human kindness their etchers' aquafortis; and we know how Cruikshank's sudden abandonment of
political caricature has been generally attributed (without drawing
forth any denial) to a very special communication of a remunerative
sort from Windsor Castle.

That, however, was owing rather to his remorseless gibbeting of the follies and scandals of the Court
than to political attack or personal persecution; but other circumstances of a more serious, because
of an international, character have now and again attended the publication of a caricature. For example, like
the Hi-Talleyrand episode, Leech's famous cartoon of "Cock-a-doodle-do!" (February 13th, 1858) promised at one
time--less directly, it is true--to bring unpleasant consequences
in its train.

In the spirit of the Prince de Joinville, whose bombastic language
towards England in 1848 had set an example not to be resisted, were
the fire-eating words of a few French officers, who offered to "unsheathe
their swords and place them at their sovereign's disposal," and so
forth.

Leech replied with a cartoon of a Gallic cock, capped and spurred, flapping
its epaulettes and crowing its loudest, while Napoleon the Third
curses the "Crowing Colonel" under his breath. "Diable!" he says, "the
noisy bird will awake my neighbour;" and the point is emphasised by a quotation
from the Moniteur.

The hit, if not quite original (for Doyle had made a precisely similar
sketch of "Le Coq Gaulois" twelve years before in "The Almanac of the
Month") was, at any rate, a fair one. But some unscrupulous British
patriot so took the matter into his own scurvy hands that the following
advertisement was published in "The Times" of March 10th:--

"Fifty
Pounds Reward.--It having come to the knowledge of the Committee of
the Army and Navy Club that a caricature, with most coarse and vulgar
language appended thereto, was sent to an officer in command of a
French regiment, accompanied with a forged message from the club,
the above reward will, within six weeks from this date, be paid by
the Secretary of the Club on the conviction and punishment of the
offender."

And so the affair was amicably settled, but not before correspondence
of a lively character had passed between both the insulted parties, and
it was feared that the matter might be taken up as "an insult to the
French Army."

    
    
    
    
    Many a time has Punch been excluded from France--beginning
    as early as February 11th, 1843--by reason of his political cuts.
In the first half-volume for that year a cartoon entitled "Punch turned
out of France"--showing a very sea-sick puppet received on Boulogne
quay at the point of a bayonet--first made public the severity of
his struggle with Louis Philippe.

    
    
    
    
    
    There is no doubt that his denunciations approached about as near to scurrility
as ever he was guilty of; and it is equally true that the French King winced under
the attacks made with such acerbity upon his well-known parsimony. In
due time, on April 7th, the embargo was lifted, but again in the following
year an article by Thackeray, entitled "A Case of Real Distress,"
in which Punch offers to open a subscription for the poor beggar,
with a cut by the same hand representing the King as a "Pauvre Malheureux,"
had the effect of a fresh exclusion.

    
    
    Punch responded vigorously, his first proceeding being
    to advertise, "Wanted--A Few Bold Smugglers" in order
    that he "may continue to disseminate the civilisation of his
    pages throughout benighted France."

And so on several occasions, especially during the period of his
long hostility to Napoleon III., was Punch turned back from the
French frontier, though later on the authorities permitted him to
enter, on the condition that, like a Mahometan who leaves his slippers
at the temple door, he tore out his cartoon before he passed inside.

    
    
    Of late years, however, Punch
    
    has on the whole been on excellent terms with "Mme. la
    Republique," chiefly through his own forbearance during the period
of what promised to be the Anglo-Congolese Difficulty.

It is true that the cartoon of November, 1894, showing the French Wolf about to
spring upon the Madagascar Lamb, aroused fine indignation in Paris
at this English version of the methods of French colonial expansion; and
that the famous picture of Marshal MacMahon of a score of years before,
in which the President was shown stuck fast in the political mud,
obstinately satisfied with his impossible position ("J'y suis!--J'y
reste!"?), gave equal offence on the boulevards; and although in the
latter case the fairness of the hit was acknowledged, Punch was again,
as he had several times recently been, placed under ban.

    
    
    
    
    Again, at the time of the Franco-Russian rapprochement
    and consequent fêtes, the drawing of the Bear and Republic in cordial
tête-à-tête, the former disclosing the true source and object of his new-found
affection by hinting, with a sly wink and a smirk, about a "little
loan," gave rise to real anger, and was deeply resented--probably with
the more annoyance that the cutting truth with which Punch had hit off
the situation was secretly and unwillingly recognised. But save on
one occasion no official expulsion or repulse has in recent times
been Punch's lot. Moreover, his splendid series of cartoons, nobly conceived
and full of generous sympathy, which he published towards the close of the
Franco-Prussian War, are still remembered with some approach to gratitude
in a country which has rarely, if ever, returned us the compliment of
kindliness or friendship, or even of courtesy, in its satiric press.

Even in Germany, though Punch has not often been denied admittance, he has
had at least one distinguished door closed against him. This was when in
March, 1892 (p. 110 in the first half-yearly volume), Mr. Linley Sambourne's
"cartoon junior" was published, satirising the German Emperor in
"The Modern Alexander's Feast; or, The Power of Sound"--

"With ravished
ears The Monarch hears; Assumes the god, Affects to nod, And seems
to shake the spheres."

The German Army Bill agitation--the struggle between Emperor and Reichstag,
which was followed with so much interest in England--was then at its height;
and the monarch had no mind for trivialities. Punch's candour in illustrating
the title given him in this country of "The Shouting Emperor," so
it is alleged, annoyed him.

"For nearly forty years," said one authority, "Punch has been regularly taken in at the Prussian royal palaces
in Berlin and Potsdam.

The Emperor William has just issued a private order that Punch is to be
struck off the list of journals which are supplied to him; and the
Empress Frederick, Prince Henry of Prussia, and all the members of
the Royal Family who are in the habit of reading English journals,
have been desired by their aristocratic relation to discontinue the
obnoxious periodical.

It is understood at Berlin that the Emperor's wrath has
been excited by some jocular allusions to his Majesty's oratorical
indiscretions which recently appeared in Punch."

If the members of the Imperial Family scrupulously obeyed the alleged command,
they lost the enjoyment of a hearty laugh over Punch's retort--for
it is Punch's habit always to retort in matters of this sort when
his fun is misunderstood or his irony, in his opinion, taken in ill-part.

This was the much-talked-of "Wilful Wilhelm"--representing the Emperor, à la Struuwelpeter, as a passionate
fractious child, screaming amid his toy soldiers and drums:

"Take the nasty Punch away; I won't have any Punch to-day."

Nor would he leave him alone for a while; but returning a year later to the charge, and
taking as a text the Emperor's words--

"It was impossible for me to anticipate the rejection of the Army
Bills, so fully did I rely upon the patriotism of the Imperial Diet
to accept them unreservedly.

A patriotic minority has been unable to prevail against the majority....
I was compelled to resort to a dissolution, and I look forward to the acceptance
of the Bills by the new Reichstag. Should this expectation be again
disappointed, I am determined to use every means in my power to achieve
my purpose...."

Punch promptly produced his cartoon a third time, by Mr. Sambourne's
pencil, of "Nana would not give me a bow-wow!--A Pretty Little Song
for Pettish Little Emperors," as the latest Teutonic version of the
music-hall ditty then in vogue.

And later on there was Sir John Tenniel's contribution to the pretty
little quarrel, in which in "Alexander and Diogenes"

    
    

(October, 1893) the Emperor asks, "Is there anything I can do for you?
Castle? or anything of that sort?" and Bismarck Diogenes grunts his
reply, "No--only leave me to my tub!"

But the
Emperor's anger did not last long--if it ever existed at all--for it
was announced that he again received his Punch regularly, but, to save
appearances, it arrived from London every week in an official-looking
envelope, which was opened by the Kaiser's own hands, and by him duly
stowed away in his library.

If Punch, by his outspoken criticism, has succeeded in raising the
ire of two of the most civilised of the Great Powers, it was not to
be expected that he should escape the blacking-roller of the Russian
censor of the press.

The touchiness of that official does credit rather to his zeal than to his
judgment--and, besides, he is obviously no humorist.

The Russians have had little opportunity of learning what is thought
of them and their governors at 85, Fleet Street. Time after time has
the cartoon been destroyed; and Mr. Sambourne, journeying in the country,
learned by personal experience that Moscow and St. Petersburg were
not as London and Paris.

"Should it happen," he writes, "that any cartoon or cut at all trenched
on Russian subjects, and especially his Majesty the Tsar, the page was either torn
out or erased in the blackest manner by the Bear's paw.

 Nor ought the extraordinary variety of the treatment
to be missed. Often as Sidney girds at those who, like Watson, "dug their sonnets out of books,"
he can write in the learned literary manner with the best. The pleasant ease of his sonnet
to the sparrow, "Good brother Philip," contrasts in the oddest way with his allegorical and
mythological sonnets, in each of which veins he indulges hardly less often, though very much
more wisely than any of his contemporaries. Nor do the other "Songs of variable verse," which
follow, and in some editions are mixed up with the sonnets, display less extraordinary power.
The first song, with its refrain in the penultimate line of each stanza,

    "To you, to you, all song of praise is due,"

contrasts in its throbbing and burning life with the faint and misty imagery, the stiff and
wooden structure, of most of the verse of Sidney's predecessors, and deserves to be given in
full:--

    "Doubt you to whom my Muse these notes intendeth;
    Which now my breast o'ercharged to music lendeth?
      To you! to you! all song of praise is due:
    Only in you my song begins and endeth.

    "Who hath the eyes which marry state with pleasure,
    Who keeps the keys of Nature's chiefest treasure?
      To you! to you! all song of praise is due:
    Only for you the heaven forgat all measure.

    "Who hath the lips, where wit in fairness reigneth?
    Who womankind at once both decks and staineth?
      To you! to you! all song of praise is due:
    Only by you Cupid his crown maintaineth.

    "Who hath the feet, whose steps all sweetness planteth?
    Who else; for whom Fame worthy trumpets wanteth?
      To you! to you! all song of praise is due:
    Only to you her sceptre Venus granteth.

    "Who hath the breast, whose milk doth passions nourish?
    Whose grace is such, that when it chides doth cherish?
      To you! to you! all song of praise is due:
    Only through you the tree of life doth flourish.

    "Who hath the hand, which without stroke subdueth?
    Who long dead beauty with increase reneweth?
      To you! to you! all song of praise is due:
    Only at you all envy hopeless rueth.

    "Who hath the hair, which loosest fastest tieth?
    Who makes a man live then glad when he dieth?
      To you! to you! all song of praise is due:
    Only of you the flatterer never lieth.

    "Who hath the voice, which soul from senses sunders?
    Whose force but yours the bolts of beauty thunders?
      To you! to you! all song of praise is due:
    Only with you not miracles are wonders.

Nor is its promise belied by those which follow, and which are among the earliest and the most
charming of the rich literature of songs that really are songs--songs to music--which the age
was to produce. All the scanty remnants of his other verse are instinct with the same qualities,
especially the splendid dirge, "Ring out your bells, let mourning shows be spread," and the
pretty lines "to the tune of Wilhelmus van Nassau."

The verse from the Arcadia (which contains a great deal of verse) has been perhaps injuriously
affected in the general judgment by the fact that it includes experiments in the impossible
classical metres. But both it and the Translations from the Psalms express the same poetical
faculty employed with less directness and force. To sum up, there is no Elizabethan poet, except
the two named, who is more unmistakably imbued with poetical quality than Sidney. And Hazlitt's
judgment on him, that he is "jejune" and "frigid" will, as Lamb himself hinted, long remain
the chiefest and most astonishing example of a great critic's aberrations when his prejudices
are concerned.

Had Hazlitt been criticising Thomas Watson, his judgment, though harsh, would have been not
wholly easy to quarrel with. It is probably the excusable but serious error of judgment which
induced his rediscoverer, Professor Arber, to rank Watson above Sidney in gifts and genius,
that has led other critics to put him unduly low. Watson himself, moreover, has invited depreciation
by his extreme frankness in confessing that his Passionate Century is not a record of passion
at all, but an elaborate literary pastiche after this author and that. I fear it must be admitted
that the average critic is not safely to be trusted with such an avowal of what he is too much
disposed to advance as a charge without confession. Watson, of whom as usual scarcely anything
is known personally, was a Londoner by birth, an Oxford man by education, a friend of most
of the earlier literary school of the reign, such as Lyly, Peele, and Spenser, and a tolerably
industrious writer both in Latin and English during his short life, which can hardly have begun
before 1557, and was certainly closed by 1593. He stands in English poetry as the author of
the Hecatompathia or Passionate Century of sonnets (1582), and the Tears of Fancy, consisting
of sixty similar poems, printed after his death. The Tears of Fancy are regular quatorzains,
the pieces composing the Hecatompathia, though called sonnets, are in a curious form of eighteen
lines practically composed of three six-line stanzas rhymed A B, A B, C C, and not connected
by any continuance of rhyme from stanza to stanza. The special and peculiar oddity of the book
is, that each sonnet has a prose preface as thus: "In this passion the author doth very busily
imitate and augment a certain ode of Ronsard, which he writeth unto his mistress. He beginneth
as followeth, Plusieurs, etc." Here is a complete example of one of Watson's pages:--

     "There needeth no annotation at all before this passion, it is of
     itself so plain and easily conveyed. Yet the unlearned may have
     this help given them by the way to know what Galaxia is or
     Pactolus, which perchance they have not read of often in our
     vulgar rhymes. Galaxia (to omit both the etymology and what the
     philosophers do write thereof) is a white way or milky circle in
     the heavens, which Ovid mentioneth in this manner--

    Est via sublimis coelo manifesta sereno,
    Lactea nomen habet, candore notabilis ipso.

                             --Metamorph. lib. 1.

     And Cicero thus in Somnio Scipionis: Erat autem is splendissimo
     candore inter flammas circulus elucens, quem vos (ut a Graijs
     accepistis) orbem lacteum nuncupatis.

     Pactolus is a river in Lydia, which hath golden sands under it,
     as Tibullus witnesseth in this verse:--

    Nec me regna juvant, nec Lydius aurifer amnis.--Tibul. lib. 3.

    Who can recount the virtues of my dear,
    Or say how far her fame hath taken flight,
    That cannot tell how many stars appear
    In part of heaven, which Galaxia hight,
      Or number all the moats in Phoebus' rays,
      Or golden sands whereon Pactolus plays?

    And yet my hurts enforce me to confess,
    In crystal breast she shrouds a bloody heart,
    Which heart in time will make her merits less,
    Unless betimes she cure my deadly smart:
      For now my life is double dying still,
      And she defamed by sufferance of such ill;

    And till the time she helps me as she may,
    Let no man undertake to tell my toil,
    But only such, as can distinctly say,
    What monsters Nilus breeds, or Afric soil:
      For if he do, his labour is but lost,
      Whilst I both fry and freeze 'twixt flame and frost."

Now this is undoubtedly, as Watson's contemporaries would have said, "a cooling card" to the
reader, who is thus presented with a series of elaborate poetical exercises affecting the acutest
personal feeling, and yet confessedly representing no feeling at all. Yet the Hecatompathia
is remarkable, both historically and intrinsically. It does not seem likely that at its publication
the author can have had anything of Sidney's or much of Spenser's before him; yet his work
is only less superior to the work of their common predecessors than the work of these two.
By far the finest of his Century is the imitation of Ferrabosco--

    "Resolved to dust intombed here lieth love."

The quatorzains of the Tears of Fancy are more attractive in form and less artificial in structure
and phraseology, but it must be remembered that by their time Sidney's sonnets were known and
Spenser had written much. The seed was scattered abroad, and it fell in congenial soil in falling
on Watson, but the Hecatompathia was self-sown.

This difference shows itself very remarkably in the vast outburst of sonneteering which, as
has been remarked, distinguished the middle of the last decade of the sixteenth century. All
these writers had Sidney and Spenser before them, and they assume so much of the character
of a school that there are certain subjects, for instance, "Care-charming sleep," on which
many of them (after Sidney) composed sets of rival poems, almost as definitely competitive
as the sonnets of the later "Uranie et Job" and "Belle Matineuse" series in France. Nevertheless,
there is in all of them--what as a rule is wanting in this kind of clique verse--the independent
spirit, the original force which makes poetry. The Smiths and the Fletchers, the Griffins and
the Lynches, are like little geysers round the great ones: the whole soil is instinct with
fire and flame. We shall, however, take the production of the four remarkable years 1593-1596
separately, and though in more than one case we shall return upon their writers both in this
chapter and in a subsequent one, the unity of the sonnet impulse seems to demand separate mention
for them here.

In 1593 the influence of the Sidney poems (published, it must be remembered, in 1591) was new,
and the imitators, except Watson (of whom above), display a good deal of the quality of the
novice. The chief of them are Barnabe Barnes, with his Parthenophil and Parthenophe, Giles
Fletcher (father of the Jacobean poets, Giles and Phineas Fletcher), with his Licia, and Thomas
Lodge, with his Phillis. Barnes is a modern discovery, for before Dr. Grosart reprinted him
in 1875, from the unique original at Chatsworth, for thirty subscribers only (of whom I had
the honour to be one), he was practically unknown. Mr. Arber has since, in his English Garner,
opened access to a wider circle, to whom I at least do not grudge their entry. As with most
of these minor Elizabethan poets, Barnes is a very obscure person. A little later than Parthenophil
he wrote A Divine Centurie of Spiritual Sonnets, having, like many of his contemporaries, an
apparent desire poetically to make the best of both worlds. He also wrote a wild play in the
most daring Elizabethan style, called The Devil's Charter, and a prose political Treatise of
Offices. Barnes was a friend of Gabriel Harvey's, and as such met with some rough usage from
Nash, Marston, and others. His poetical worth, though there are fine passages in The Devil's
Charter and in the Divine Centurie, must rest on Parthenophil. This collection consists not
merely of sonnets but of madrigals, sestines, canzons, and other attempts after Italian masters.
The style, both verbal and poetical, needs chastising in places, and Barnes's expression in
particular is sometimes obscure. He is sometimes comic when he wishes to be passionate, and
frequently verbose when he wishes to be expressive. But the fire, the full-bloodedness, the
poetical virility, of the poems is extraordinary. A kind of intoxication of the eternal-feminine
seems to have seized the poet to an extent not otherwise to be paralleled in the group, except
in Sidney; while Sidney's courtly sense of measure and taste did not permit him Barnes's forcible
extravagances. Here is a specimen:--

    "Phoebus, rich father of eternal light,
    And in his hand a wreath of Heliochrise
      He brought, to beautify those tresses,
    Whose train, whose softness, and whose gloss more bright,
          Apollo's locks did overprize.
    Thus, with this garland, whiles her brows he blesses,
          The golden shadow with his tincture
          Coloured her locks, aye gilded with the cincture."

Giles Fletcher's Licia is a much more pale and colourless performance, though not wanting in
merit. The author, who was afterwards a most respectable clergyman, is of the class of amoureux
transis, and dies for Licia throughout his poems, without apparently suspecting that it was
much better to live for her. His volume contained some miscellaneous poems, with a dullish
essay in the historical style (see post), called The Rising of Richard to the Crown. Very far
superior is Lodge's Phillis, the chief poetical work of that interesting person, except some
of the madrigals and odd pieces of verse scattered about his prose tracts (for which see Chapter
VI.) Phillis is especially remarkable for the grace and refinement with which the author elaborates
the Sidneian model. Lodge, indeed, as it seems to me, was one of the not uncommon persons who
can always do best with a model before them. He euphuised with better taste than Lyly, but
in imitation of him; his tales in prose are more graceful than those of Greene, whom he copied;
it at least seems likely that he out-Marlowed Marlowe in the rant of the Looking-Glass for
London, and the stiffness of the Wounds of Civil War, and he chiefly polished Sidney in his
sonnets and madrigals. It is not to be denied, however, that in three out of these four departments
he gave us charming work. His mixed allegiance to Marlowe and Sidney gave him command of a
splendid form of decasyllable, which appears often in Phillis, as for instance--

    "About thy neck do all the graces throng
    And lay such baits as might entangle death,"

where it is worth noting that the whole beauty arises from the dexterous
placing of the dissyllable "graces," and the trisyllable "entangle,"
exactly where they ought to be among the monosyllables of the rest. The
madrigals "Love guards the roses of thy lips," "My Phillis hath the morning
sun," and "Love in my bosom like a bee" are simply unsurpassed for sugared
sweetness in English.
    Within mine eyes he makes his nest
    His bed amidst my tender breast,
    My kisses are his daily feast;
    And yet he robs me of my rest?
        'Ah, wanton! will ye?'

    "And if I sleep, then percheth he,
          With pretty flight,[26]
    And makes his pillow of my knee
          The livelong night.
    Strike I my lute, he tunes the string.
    He music plays, if so I sing.
    He lends me every lovely thing
    Yet cruel! he, my heart doth sting.
        'Whist, wanton! still ye!'

    "Else I with roses, every day
          Will whip you hence,
    And bind you, when you want to play,
          For your offence.
    I'll shut my eyes to keep you in,
    I'll make you fast it for your sin,
    I'll count your power not worth a pin.
    Alas, what hereby shall I win
        If he gainsay me?

    "What if I beat the wanton boy
          With many a rod?
    He will repay me with annoy
          Because a god.
    Then sit thou safely on my knee,
    And let thy bower my bosom be.
    Lurk in mine eyes, I like of thee.
    O Cupid! so thou pity me,
        Spare not, but play thee."

[26] Printed in England's Helicon "sleight."

1594 was the most important of all the sonnet years, and here we are chiefly bound to mention
authors who will come in for fuller notice later. The singular book known as Willoughby's Avisa
which, as having a supposed bearing on Shakespere and as containing much of that personal puzzlement
which rejoices critics, has had much attention of late years, is not strictly a collection
of sonnets; its poems being longer and of differing stanzas. But in general character it falls
in with the sonnet-collections addressed or devoted to a real or fanciful personage. It is
rather satirical than panegyrical in character, and its poetical worth is very far from high.
William Percy, a friend of Barnes (who dedicated the Parthenophil to him), son of the eighth
Earl of Northumberland, and a retired person who seems to have passed the greater part of a
long life in Oxford "drinking nothing but ale," produced a very short collection entitled Coelia,
not very noteworthy, though it contains (probably in imitation of Barnes) one of the tricky
things called echo-sonnets, which, with dialogue-sonnets and the like, have sometimes amused
the leisure of poets. Much more remarkable is the singular anonymous collection called Zepheria.
Its contents are called not sonnets but canzons, though most of them are orthodox quatorzains
somewhat oddly rhymed and rhythmed. It is brief, extending only to forty pieces, and, like
much of the poetry of the period, begins and ends with Italian mottoes or dedication-phrases.
But what is interesting about it is the evidence it gives of deep familiarity not only with
Italian but with French models. This appears both in such words as "jouissance," "thesaurise,"
"esperance," "souvenance," "vatical" (a thoroughly Ronsardising word), with others too many
to mention, and in other characteristics. Mr. Sidney Lee, in his most valuable collection of
these sonneteers, endeavours to show that this French influence was less uncommon than has
sometimes been thought. Putting this aside, the characteristic of Zepheria is unchastened vigour,
full of promise, but decidedly in need of further schooling and discipline, as the following
will show:--

    "O then Desire, father of Jouissance,
    The Life of Love, the Death of dastard Fear,
    The kindest nurse to true persèverance,
    Mine heart inherited, with thy love's revere. [?]
    Beauty! peculiar parent of Conceit,
    Prosperous midwife to a travelling muse,
    The sweet of life, Nepenthe's eyes receipt,
    Thee into me distilled, O sweet, infuse!
    Love then (the spirit of a generous sprite,
    An infant ever drawing Nature's breast,
    The Sum of Life, that Chaos did unnight!)
    Dismissed mine heart from me, with thee to rest.
    And now incites me cry, 'Double or quit!
    Give back my heart, or take his body to it!'"

This cannot be said of the three remarkable collections yet to be noticed which appeared in
this year, to wit, Constable's Diana, Daniel's Delia, and Drayton's Idea. These three head
the group and contain the best work, after Shakespere and Spenser and Sidney, in the English
sonnet of the time. Constable's sonnets had appeared partly in 1592, and as they stand in fullest
collection were published in or before 1594. Afterwards he wrote, like others, "divine" sonnets
(he was a Roman Catholic) and some miscellaneous poems, including a very pretty "Song of Venus
and Adonis." He was a close friend of Sidney, many of whose sonnets were published with his,
and his work has much of the Sidneian colour, but with fewer flights of happily expressed fancy.
The best of it is probably the following sonnet, which is not only full of gracefully expressed
images, but keeps up its flight from first to last--a thing not universal in these Elizabethan
sonnets:--

    "My Lady's presence makes the Roses red,
    Because to see her lips they blush for shame.
    The Lily's leaves, for envy, pale became;
    And her white hands in them this envy bred.
    The Marigold the leaves abroad doth spread;
    Because the sun's and her power is the same.
    The Violet of purple colour came,
    Dyed in the blood she made my heart to shed.
    In brief all flowers from her their virtue take;
    From her sweet breath, their sweet smells do proceed;
    The living heat which her eyebeams doth make
    Warmeth the ground, and quickeneth the seed.
    The rain, wherewith she watereth the flowers,
    Falls from mine eyes, which she dissolves in showers."

Samuel Daniel had an eminently contemplative genius which might have anticipated the sonnet
as it is in Wordsworth, but which the fashion of the day confined to the not wholly suitable
subject of Love. In the splendid "Care-charmer Sleep," one of the tournament sonnets above
noted, he contrived, as will be seen, to put his subject under the influence of his prevailing
faculty.

But as a rule he is perhaps too much given to musing, and too little to rapture. In form he
is important, as he undoubtedly did much to establish the arrangement of three alternate rhymed
quatrains and a couplet which, in Shakespere's hands, was to give the noblest poetry of the
sonnet and of the world. He has also an abundance of the most exquisite single lines, such as

    "O clear-eyed rector of the holy hill,"

and the wonderful opening of Sonnet XXVII., "The star of my mishap imposed this pain."

The sixty-three sonnets, varied in different editions of Drayton's Idea, are among the most
puzzling of the whole group. Their average value is not of the very highest. Yet there are
here and there the strangest suggestions of Drayton's countryman, Shakespere, and there is
one sonnet, No. 61, beginning, "Since there's no help, come let us kiss and part," which I
have found it most difficult to believe to be Drayton's, and which is Shakespere all over.
That Drayton was the author of Idea as a whole is certain, not merely from the local allusions,
but from the resemblance to the more successful exercises of his clear, masculine, vigorous,
fertile, but occasionally rather unpoetical style. The sonnet just referred to is itself one
of the very finest existing--perhaps one of the ten or twelve best sonnets in the world, and
it may be worth while to give it with another in contrast:--

    "Our flood's Queen, Thames, for ships and swans is crowned;
      And stately Severn for her shore is praised.
    Arden's sweet Ankor, let thy glory be
    That fair Idea only lives by thee!"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Since there's no help, come, let us kiss and part!
      Nay, I have done. You get no more of me
    And I am glad, yea, glad with all my heart
      That thus so cleanly I myself can free.
    Shake hands for ever, cancel all our vows,
      And when we meet at any time again
    Be it not seen in either of our brows
      That we one jot of former love retain.
    Now at the last gasp of Love's latest breath,
      When, his pulse failing, Passion speechless lies;
    When Faith is kneeling by his bed of death,
      And Innocence is closing up his eyes:
    Now, if thou would'st, when all have given him over,
    From death to life thou might'st him yet recover!"

1595 chiefly contributed the curious production called Alcilia, by J. C., who gives the name
of sonnets to a series of six-line stanzas, varied occasionally by other forms, such as that
of the following pretty verses. It may be noted that the citation of proverbs is very characteristic
of Alcilia:--

    "Love is sorrow mixed with gladness,
    Fear with hope, and hope with madness.
    Long did I love, but all in vain;
    I loving, was not loved again:
    For which my heart sustained much woe.
    It fits not maids to use men so,
    Just deserts are not regarded,
    Never love so ill rewarded.
    But 'all is lost that is not sought,'
    'Oft wit proves best that's dearest bought.'

    "Women were made for men's relief;
    To comfort, not to cause their grief.
    Where most I merit, least I find:
    No marvel, since that love is blind.
    Had she been kind as she was fair,
    My case had been more strange and rare.
    But women love not by desert,
    Reason in them hath weakest part.
    Then henceforth let them love that list,
    I will beware of 'had I wist.'"

1596 (putting the Amoretti, which is sometimes assigned to this year, aside) was again fruitful
with Griffin's Fidessa, Lynch's Diella, and Smith's Chloris. Fidessa, though distinctly "young,"
is one of the most interesting of the clearly imitative class of these sonnets, and contains
some very graceful poetry, especially the following, one of the Sleep class, which will serve
as a good example of the minor sonneteers:--

    "Care-charmer Sleep! sweet ease in restless misery!
      The captive's liberty, and his freedom's song!
    Balm of the bruisèd heart! man's chief felicity!
      Brother of quiet Death, when Life is too too long!
    A Comedy it is, and now an History;
      What is not sleep unto the feeble mind?
    It easeth him that toils, and him that's sorry;
      It makes the deaf to hear; to see, the blind;
    Ungentle Sleep! thou helpest all but me,
      For when I sleep my soul is vexèd most.
    It is Fidessa that doth master thee
      If she approach; alas! thy power is lost.
    But here she is! See, how he runs amain!
    I fear, at night, he will not come again."

Diella, a set of thirty-eight sonnets prefixed to the "Amorous poem of Diego and Genevra,"
is more elaborate in colouring but somewhat less fresh and genuine; while Chloris, whose author
was a friend of Spenser's, approaches to the pastoral in the plan and phrasing of its fifty
sonnets.

Such are the most remarkable members of a group of English poetry, which yields to few such
groups in interest. It is connected by a strong similarity of feeling--if any one likes, even
by a strong imitation of the same models. But in following those models and expressing those
feelings, its members, even the humblest of them, have shown remarkable poetical capacity;
while of the chiefs we can only say, as has been said more than once already, that the matter
and form together acknowledge, and indeed admit of, no superior.

In close connection with these groups of sonnets, displaying very much the same poetical characteristics
and in some cases written by the same authors, there occurs a great body of miscellaneous poetical
writing produced during the last twenty years of the sixteenth century, and ranging from long
poems of the allegorical or amatory kind to the briefest lyrics and madrigals. Sometimes this
work appeared independently; sometimes it was inserted in the plays and prose pamphlets of
the time. As has already been said, some of our authors, notably Lodge and Greene, did in this
way work which far exceeds in merit any of their more ambitious pieces, and which in a certain
unborrowed and incommunicable poetic grace hardly leaves anything of the time behind it. Shakespere
himself, in Venus and Adonis and Lucrece, has in a more elaborate but closely allied kind of
poetry displayed less mature, but scarcely less, genius than in his dramatic and sonnet work.
It is my own opinion that the actual poetical worth of Richard Barnfield, to whom an exquisite
poem in The Passionate Pilgrim, long ascribed to Shakespere, is now more justly assigned, has,
owing to this assignment and to the singular character of his chief other poem, The Affectionate
Shepherd, been considerably overrated. It is unfortunately as complete if not as common a mistake
to suppose that any one who disdains his country's morality must be a good poet, as to set
down any one who disdains it without further examination for a bad one. The simple fact, as
it strikes a critic, is that "As it fell upon a day" is miles above anything else of Barnfield's,
and is not like anything else of his, while it is very like things of Shakespere's. The best
thing to be said for Barnfield is that he was an avowed and enthusiastic imitator and follower
of Spenser. His poetical work (we might have included the short series of sonnets to Cynthia
in the division of sonneteers) was all written when he was a very young man, and he died when
he was not a very old one, a bachelor country-gentleman in Warwickshire. Putting the exquisite
"As it fell upon a day" out of question (which, if he wrote it, is one of the not very numerous
examples of perfect poetry written by a very imperfect poet), Barnfield has, in no extraordinary
measure, the common attributes of this wonderful time--poetical enthusiasm, fresh and unhackneyed
expression, metrical charm, and gorgeous colouring, which does not find itself ill-matched
with accurate drawing of nature. He is above the average Elizabethan, and his very bad taste
in The Affectionate Shepherd (a following of Virgil's Second Eclogue) may be excused as a humanist
crotchet of the time. His rarity, his eccentricity, and the curious mixing up of his work with
Shakespere's have done him something more than yeoman's service with recent critics. But he
may have a specimen:--

    "And thus it happened: Death and Cupid met
      Upon a time at swilling Bacchus' house,
    Where dainty cates upon the board were set,
      And goblets full of wine to drink carouse:
        Where Love and Death did love the liquor so
        That out they fall, and to the fray they go.

    "And having both their quivers at their back
      Filled full of arrows--the one of fatal steel,
    The other all of gold; Death's shaft was black,
      But Love's was yellow--Fortune turned her wheel,
        And from Death's quiver fell a fatal shaft
        That under Cupid by the wind was waft.

    "And at the same time by ill hap there fell
      Another arrow out of Cupid's quiver;
    The which was carried by the wind at will,
      And under Death the amorous shaft did shiver.[27]
        They being parted, Love took up Death's dart,
        And Death took up Love's arrow for his part."

[27] Not, of course = "break," but "shudder."

There is perhaps more genuine poetic worth, though there is less accomplishment of form, in
the unfortunate Father Robert Southwell, who was executed as a traitor on the 20th of February
1595. Southwell belonged to a distinguished family, and was born (probably) at Horsham St.
Faiths, in Norfolk, about the year 1560. He was stolen by a gipsy in his youth, but was recovered;
and a much worse misfortune befell him in being sent for education not to Oxford or Cambridge
but to Douay, where he got into the hands of the Jesuits, and joined their order. He was sent
on a mission to England; and (no doubt conscientiously) violating the law there, was after
some years of hiding and suspicion betrayed, arrested, treated with great harshness in prison,
and at last, as has been said, executed. No specific acts of treason were even charged against
him; and he earnestly denied any designs whatever against the Queen and kingdom, nor can it
be doubted that he merely paid the penalty of others' misdeeds. His work both in prose and
poetry was not inconsiderable, and the poetry was repeatedly printed in rather confusing and
imperfect editions after his death. The longest, but by no means the best, piece is St. Peter's
Complaint.

Something of the glow of this appears elsewhere in the poems, which are, without exception,
religious. They have not a little of the "hectic" tone, which marks still more strongly the
chief English Roman Catholic poet of the next century, Crashaw; but are never, as Crashaw sometimes
is, hysterical. On the whole, as was remarked in a former chapter, they belong rather to the
pre-Spenserian class in diction and metre, though with something of the Italian touch. Occasional
roughnesses in them may be at least partly attributed to the evident fact that the author thought
of nothing less than of merely "cultivating the muses." His religious fervour is of the simplest
and most genuine kind, and his poems are a natural and unforced expression of it.

It is difficult in the brief space which can here be allotted to the subject to pass in review
the throng of miscellaneous poets and poetry indicated under this group. The reprints of Dr.
Grosart and Mr. Arber, supplemented in a few cases by recourse to the older recoveries of Brydges,
Haslewood, Park, Collier, and others, bring before the student a mass of brilliant and beautiful
matter, often mixed with a good deal of slag and scoriæ, but seldom deficient in the true poetical
ore. The mere collections of madrigals and songs, actually intended for casual performance
at a time when almost every accomplished and well-bred gentleman or lady was expected to oblige
the company, which Mr. Arber's invaluable English Garner and Mr. Bullen's Elizabethan Lyrics
give from the collections edited or produced by Byrd, Yonge, Campion, Dowland, Morley, Alison,
Wilbye, and others, represent such a body of verse as probably could not be got together, with
the same origin and circumstances, in any quarter-century of any nation's history since the
foundation of the world. In Campion especially the lyrical quality is extraordinary. He was
long almost inaccessible, but Mr. Bullen's edition of 1889 has made knowledge of him easy.
His birth-year is unknown, but he died in 1620. He was a Cambridge man, a member of the Inns
of Court, and a physician in good practice. He has left us a masque; four Books of Airs (1601-17?),
in which the gems given below, and many others, occur; and a sometimes rather unfairly characterised
critical treatise, Observations on the Art of English Poesy, in which he argues against rhyme
and for strict quantitative measures, but on quite different lines from those of the craze
of Stanyhurst and Harvey. Some of his illustrations of his still rather unnatural fancy (especially
"Rose-cheeked Laura," which is now tolerably familiar in anthologies) are charming, though
never so charming as his rhymed "Airs." The poetry is, indeed, mostly in flashes, and it is
not very often that any song is a complete gem, like the best of the songs from the dramatists,
one or two of which will be given presently for comparison. But by far the greater number contain
and exemplify those numerous characteristics of poetry, as distinguished from verse, which
at one time of literary history seem naturally to occur--seem indeed to be had for the gathering
by any one who chooses--while at another time they are but sparingly found in the work of men
of real genius, and seem altogether to escape men of talent, accomplishment, and laborious
endeavour. Here are a few specimens from Peele and others, especially Campion. As it is, an
exceptional amount of the small space possible for such things in this volume has been given
to them, but there is a great temptation to give more. Lyly's lyrical work, however, is fairly
well known, and more than one collection of "Songs from the Dramatists" has popularised others.

              Æ.

            Par.

              Æ. They that do change, etc., etc.

              Æ. Fair and fair, etc.

            Par. Fair and fair, etc.

              Æ.
                   Amen to Cupid's curse,
                   They that do change, etc."

                              PEELE.

    "And when he saddest sits in homely cell,
    He'll teach his swains this carol for a song:
    'Blessed be the hearts that wish my Sovereign well,
    Cursed be the souls that think her any wrong.'
    Goddess allow this aged man his right,
    To be your beadsman now that was your knight."

                              PEELE.

    "Fain would I change that note
      To which fond love hath charm'd me,
    Long, long to sing by rote
      Fancying that that harm'd me:
    Yet when this thought doth come,
    'Love is the perfect sum
          Of all delight!'
        I have no other choice
        Either for pen or voice
          To sing or write.

    "O Love, they wrong thee much
      That say thy sweet is bitter,
    When thy rich fruit is such
      As nothing can be sweeter.
    Fair house of joy and bliss
    Where truest pleasure is,
          I do adore thee;
        I know thee what thou art.
        I serve thee with my heart
          And fall before thee.

                              Anon. in BULLEN.

    "Turn all thy thoughts to eyes,
      Turn all thy hairs to ears,
    Change all thy friends to spies,
      And all thy joys to fears:
        True love will yet be free
        In spite of jealousy.

    "Turn darkness into day,
      Conjectures into truth,
    Believe what th' curious say,
      Let age interpret youth:
        True love will yet be free
        In spite of jealousy.

    "Wrest every word and look,
      Rack every hidden thought;
    Or fish with golden hook,
      True love cannot be caught:
        For that will still be free
        In spite of jealousy."

                              CAMPION in BULLEN.

    "Come, O come, my life's delight!
      Let me not in languor pine!
    Love loves no delay; thy sight
      The more enjoyed, the more divine.
        O come, and take from me
        The pain of being deprived of thee!

    "Thou all sweetness dost enclose
      Like a little world of bliss;
    Beauty guards thy looks, the rose
      In them pure and eternal is:
        Come, then, and make thy flight
        As swift to me as heavenly light!"

                              CAMPION.

    "Follow your saint, follow with accents sweet!
    Haste you, sad notes, fall at her flying feet!
    There, wrapped in cloud of sorrow, pity move,
    And tell the ravisher of my soul I perish for her love.
    But if she scorns my never-ceasing pain,
    Then burst with sighing in her sight and ne'er return again.

    "All that I sang still to her praise did tend,
    Still she was first, still she my songs did end;
    Yet she my love and music both doth fly,
    The music that her echo is and beauty's sympathy:
    Then let my notes pursue her scornful flight!
    It shall suffice that they were breathed and died for her delight."

                              CAMPION.

    "What if a day, or a month, or a year,
      Crown thy delights with a thousand sweet contentings!
    Cannot a chance of a night or an hour
      Cross thy desires with as many sad tormentings?
    Fortune, Honour, Beauty, Youth, are but blossoms dying,
    Wanton Pleasure, doating Love, are but shadows flying.
    All our joys are but toys! idle thoughts deceiving:
    None have power, of an hour, in their lives bereaving.

    "Earth's but a point to the world, and a man
      Is but a point to the world's comparèd centre!
    Shall then a point of a point be so vain
      As to triumph in a silly point's adventure?
    All is hazard that we have, there is nothing biding;
    Days of pleasure are like streams through fair meadows gliding.
    Weal and woe, time doth go! time is never turning;
    Secret fates guide our states, both in mirth and mourning."

                              CAMPION.

    "'Twas I that paid for all things,
      'Twas others drank the wine,
    I cannot now recall things;
      Live but a fool, to pine.
    'Twas I that beat the bush,
      The bird to others flew;
    For she, alas, hath left me.
      Falero! lero! loo!

    "If ever that Dame Nature
      (For this false lover's sake)
    Another pleasing creature
      Like unto her would make;
    Let her remember this,
      To make the other true!
    For this, alas! hath left me.
      Falero! lero! loo!

    "No riches now can raise me,
      No want makes me despair,
    No misery amaze me,
      Nor yet for want I care:
    I have lost a World itself,
      My earthly Heaven, adieu!
    Since she, alas! hath left me.
      Falero! lero! loo!"

                              Anon. in ARBER.

Beside these collections, which were in their origin and inception chiefly musical, and literary,
as it were, only by parergon, there are successors of the earlier Miscellanies in which, as
in England's Helicon and the celebrated Passionate Pilgrim, there is some of the most exquisite
of our verse. And, yet again, a crowd of individual writers, of few of whom is much known,
contributed, not in all cases their mites by any means, but often very respectable sums, to
the vast treasury of English poetry. There is Sir Edward Dyer, the friend of Raleigh and Sidney,
who has been immortalised by the famous "My mind to me a kingdom is," and who wrote other pieces
not much inferior.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Three things there be that prosper all apace,
      And flourish while they are asunder far;
    But on a day they meet all in a place,
      And when they meet they one another mar.

    "And they be these--the Wood, the Weed, the Wag:
      The Wood is that that makes the gallows tree;
    The Weed is that that strings the hangman's bag;
      The Wag, my pretty knave, betokens thee.

    "Now mark, dear boy--while these assemble not,
      Green springs the tree, hemp grows, the Wag is wild;
    But when they meet, it makes the timber rot,
      It frets the halter, and it chokes the child.

              "God bless the Child!"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Give me my scallop-shell of quiet,
      My staff of faith to walk upon,
    My scrip of joy, immortal diet,
      My bottle of salvation,
    My gown of glory, hope's true gage;
    And thus I'll take my pilgrimage.

    "Blood must be my body's balmer;
      No other balm will there be given;
    Whilst my soul, like quiet palmer,
      Travelleth towards the land of heaven;
    Over the silver mountains
    Where spring the nectar fountains:
        There will I kiss
        The bowl of bliss;
    And drink mine everlasting fill
    Upon every milken hill.
    My soul will be a-dry before,
    But after it will thirst no more."

There is Lord Oxford, Sidney's enemy (which he might be if he chose), and apparently a coxcomb
(which is less pardonable), but a charming writer of verse, as in the following:--

    "Come hither, shepherd swain!
      Sir, what do you require?
    I pray thee, shew to me thy name!
      My name is Fond Desire.

    "When wert thou born, Desire?
      In pomp and prime of May.
    By whom, sweet boy, wert thou begot?
      By fond Conceit, men say.

    "Tell me, who was thy nurse
      Fresh youth, in sugared joy.
    What was thy meat and daily food?
      Sad sighs, with great annoy.

    "What hadst thou then to drink?
      Unfeigned lovers' tears.
    What cradle wert thou rocked in?
      In hope devoid of fears.

    "What lulled thee then asleep?
      Sweet speech which likes me best.
    Tell me, where is thy dwelling-place?
      In gentle hearts I rest.

    "What thing doth please thee most?
      To gaze on beauty still.
    Whom dost thou think to be thy foe?
      Disdain of my good will.

    "Doth company displease?
      Yes, surely, many one.
    Where doth desire delight to live?
      He loves to live alone.

    "Doth either time or age
      Bring him unto decay?
    No, no! Desire both lives and dies
      A thousand times a day.

    "Then, fond Desire, farewell!
      Thou art no mate for me;
    I should be loath, methinks, to dwell
      With such a one as thee.

There is, in the less exalted way, the industrious man of all work, Nicholas Breton, whom we
shall speak of more at length among the pamphleteers, and John Davies of Hereford, no poet
certainly, but a most industrious verse-writer in satiric and other forms. Mass of production,
and in some cases personal interest, gives these a certain standing above their fellows. But
the crowd of those fellows, about many of whom even the painful industry of the modern commentator
has been able to tell us next to nothing, is almost miraculous when we remember that printing
was still carried on under a rigid censorship by a select body of monopolists, and that out
of London, and in rare cases the university towns, it was impossible for a minor poet to get
into print at all unless he trusted to the contraband presses of the Continent. In dealing
with this crowd of enthusiastic poetical students it is impossible to mention all, and invidious
to single out some only. The very early and interesting Posy of Gillyflowers of Humphrey Gifford
(1580) exhibits the first stage of our period, and might almost have been referred to the period
before it; the same humpty-dumpty measure of eights and sixes, and the same vestiges of rather
infantine alliteration being apparent in it, though something of the fire and variety of the
new age of poetry appears beside them, notably in this most spirited war-song:--

    (For Soldiers.)

    "Ye buds of Brutus' land, courageous youths now play your parts,[28]
    Unto your tackle stand, abide the brunt with valiant hearts,
    For news is carried to and fro, that we must forth to warfare go:
    Then muster now in every place, and soldiers are pressed forth apace.
    Faint not, spend blood to do your Queen and country good:
    Fair words, good pay, will make men cast all care away.

    "The time of war is come, prepare your corslet, spear, and shield:
    Methinks I hear the drum strike doleful marches to the field.
    Tantara, tantara the trumpets sound, which makes our hearts with joy
          abound.
    The roaring guns are heard afar, and everything announceth war.
    Serve God, stand stout; bold courage brings this gear about;
    Fear not, forth run: faint heart fair lady never won.

    "Ye curious carpet-knights that spend the time in sport and play,
    Abroad and see new sights, your country's cause calls you away:
    Do not, to make your ladies' game, bring blemish to your worthy name.
    Away to field and win renown, with courage beat your enemies down;
    Stout hearts gain praise, when dastards sail in slander's seas.
    Hap what hap shall, we soon shall die but once for all.

    "Alarm! methinks they cry. Be packing mates, begone with speed,
    Our foes are very nigh: shame have that man that shrinks at need.
    Unto it boldly let us stand, God will give right the upper hand.
    Our cause is good we need not doubt: in sign of courage give a shout;
    March forth, be strong, good hap will come ere it be long.
    Shrink not, fight well, for lusty lads must bear the bell.

    "All you that will shun evil must dwell in warfare every day. But the
    Jew laughed at
    
          him.

    
          
    'This bird, you say, should have furnished us with omens of our future
fortunes.
    

But had he known anything of his own, he would never have perched where
he did, or have come within the range of Mosollam's archery.

How should that bird know our destiny, who did not know that it was his own to be shot by Mosollam the
Jew?'

Now, this is a most common but a most erroneous way of arguing.

In a case of this kind, the bird was not supposed to have any conscious acquaintance with futurity, either
for his own benefit or that of others. But even where such a consciousness may be supposed, as in
the case of oneiromancy, or prophecy by means of dreams, it must be supposed limited, and the
more limited in a personal sense as they are illimitable in a sublime
one. Who imagines that, because a Daniel or Ezekiel foresaw the grand
revolutions of the earth, therefore they must or could have foreseen
the little details of their own ordinary life? And even descending
from that perfect inspiration to the more doubtful power of augury
amongst the Pagans, (concerning which the most eminent of theologians
have held very opposite theories,) one thing is certain, that, so
long as we entertain such pretensions, or discuss them at all, we
must take them with the principle of those who professed such arts,
not with principles of our own arbitrary invention.

One example will make this clear:--There are in England [Footnote: 'There
are in England'--Especially in Somersetshire, and for twenty miles round
Wrington, the birthplace of Locke. Nobody sinks for wells without
their advice.

We ourselves knew an amiable and accomplished Scottish family, who, at an estate called Belmadrothie,
in memory of a similar property in Ross shire, built a house in Somersetshire, and resolved
to find water without help from the jowser.

But after sinking to a greater depth than ever had been known before,
and spending nearly L200, they were finally obliged to consult the jowser,
who found water at once.] a class of men who practise the Pagan rhabdomancy
in a limited sense. They carry a rod or rhabdos (rhabdos) of willow: this
they hold horizontally; and by the bending of the rod towards the ground
they discover the favorable places for sinking wells; a matter of
considerable importance in a province so ill-watered as the northern
district of Somersetshire, &c. These people are locally called jowsers;
and it is probable, that from the suspicion with which their art has
been usually regarded amongst people of education, as a mere legerdemain
trick of Dousterswivel's, is derived the slang word to chouse for
swindle.

Meantime, the experimental evidences of a real practical skill in these men,
and the enlarged compass of speculation in these days, have led many
enlightened people to a Stoic epochey, or suspension of judgment, on the
reality of this somewhat mysterious art. Now, in the East, there are men
who make the same pretensions in a more showy branch of the art. It is
not water, but treasures which they profess to find by some hidden
kind of rhabdomancy. The very existence of treasures with us is reasonably considered
a thing of improbable occurrence.

But in the unsettled East, and with the low valuation of human life
wherever Mahometanism prevails, insecurity and other causes must
have caused millions of such deposits in every century to have perished
as to any knowledge of survivors.

The sword has been moving backwards and forwards, for instance, like
a weaver's shuttle, since the time of Mahmoud the Ghaznevide, [Footnote:
Mahmood of Ghizni, which, under the European name of Ghaznee, was
so recently taken in one hour by our Indian army under Lord Keane
Mahmood was the first Mahometan invader of Hindostan.] in Anno Domini
1000, in the vast regions between the Tigris, the Oxus, and the Indus.

Regularly as it approached, gold and jewels must have sunk by whole
harvests into the ground.

A certain per centage has been doubtless recovered: a larger per
centage has disappeared for ever.

Hence
naturally the jealousy of barbarous Orientals that we Europeans, in groping amongst pyramids, sphynxes, and
tombs, are looking for buried treasures. The wretches are not so wide astray in what they believe
as in what they disbelieve. The treasures do really exist which they fancy; but then also the other
treasures in the glorious antiquities have that existence for our sense of beauty which to their brutality is
inconceivable. In these circumstances, why should it surprise us that men will pursue the science
of discovery as a regular trade? Many discoveries of treasure are doubtless made continually,
which, for obvious reasons, are communicated to nobody. Some proportion there must be between the sowing of such
grain as diamonds or emeralds, and the subsequent reaping, whether by accident or by art. For, with
regard to the last, it is no more impossible, prima fronte, that a substance
may exist having an occult sympathy with subterraneous water or subterraneous
gold, than that the magnet should have a sympathy (as yet occult)
with the northern pole of our planet.

The first flash of careless thought applied to such a case will suggest, that men holding powers
of this nature need not offer their services for hire to others.

And this, in fact, is the objection universally urged by us Europeans
as decisive against their pretensions.

Their knavery, it is fancied, stands self-recorded; since, assuredly, they
would not be willing to divide their subterranean treasures, if they knew
of any. But the men are not in such self- contradiction as may seem.
Lady Hester Stanhope, from the better knowledge she had acquired of Oriental
opinions, set Dr. Madden right on this point. The Oriental belief is that
a fatality attends the appropriator of a treasure in any case where
he happens also to be the discoverer.

Such a person, it is held, will die soon, and suddenly--so that he is compelled
to seek his remuneration from the wages or fees of his employers, not
from the treasure itself.

Many more secret laws are held sacred amongst the professors of that
art than that which was explained by Lady Hester Stanhope.

These we shall not enter upon at present: but generally we may remark,
that the same practices of subterranean deposits, during our troubled
periods in Europe, led to the same superstitions.

And it may be added, that the same error has arisen in both cases as
to some of these superstitions.

How often must it have struck people of liberal feelings, as a scandalous proof
of the preposterous value set upon riches by poor men, that ghosts
should popularly be supposed to rise and wander for the sake of revealing
the situations of buried treasures.

For ourselves, we have been accustomed to view this popular belief
in the light of an argument for pity rather than for contempt towards
poor men, as indicating the extreme pressure of that necessity which
could so have demoralized their natural sense of truth.

But certainly, in whatever feelings originating, such popular superstitions
as to motives of ghostly missions did seem to argue a deplorable
misconception of the relation subsisting between the spiritual world
and the perishable treasures of this perishable world.

Yet, when we look into the Eastern explanations of this case, we find
that it is meant to express, not any overvaluation of riches, but the
direct contrary passion.

A human spirit is punished--such is the notion--punished in the spiritual world
for excessive attachment to gold, by degradation to the office of
its guardian; and from this office the tortured spirit can release
itself only by revealing the treasure and transferring the custody.

It is a penal martyrdom, not an elective passion for gold, which is thus
exemplified in the wanderings of a treasure-ghost.

But, in a field where of necessity we are so much limited, we willingly
pass from the consideration of these treasure or khasne phantoms (which
alone sufficiently ensure a swarm of ghostly terrors for all Oriental
ruins of cities,) to the same marvellous apparitions, as they haunt
other solitudes even more awful than those of ruined cities.

In this world there are two mighty forms of perfect solitude--the ocean
and the desert: the wilderness of the barren sands, and the wilderness
of the barren waters. Both are the parents of inevitable superstitions
--of terrors, solemn, ineradicable, eternal.

Sailors and the children of the desert are alike overrun with spiritual hauntings, from accidents of peril essentially
connected with those modes of life, and from the eternal spectacle of the infinite. Voices seem to blend
with the raving of the sea, which will for ever impress the feeling
of beings more than human: and every chamber of the great wilderness
which, with little interruption, stretches from the Euphrates to the
western shores of Africa, has its own peculiar terrors both as to
sights and sounds.

In the wilderness of Zin, between Palestine and the Red Sea, a section of the desert well known in
these days to our own countrymen, bells are heard daily pealing for
matins, or for vespers, from some phantom convent that no search of
Christian or of Bedouin Arab has ever been able to discover.

These bells have sounded since the Crusades. Other sounds, trumpets, the
Alala of armies, &c., are heard in other regions of the Desert. Forms, also,
are seen of more people than have any right to be walking in human paths:
sometimes forms of avowed terror; sometimes, which is a case of far
more danger, appearances that mimic the shapes of men, and even of
friends or comrades.

This is a case much dwelt on by the old travellers, and which throws
a gloom over the spirits of all Bedouins, and of every cafila or
caravan.

    
    
    We all know what a sensation of loneliness or 'eeriness' (to
    use an expressive term of the ballad poetry) arises to any small
    party assembling in a single room of a vast desolate mansion: how the
    timid among them fancy continually that they hear some remote
    door opening, or trace the sound of suppressed footsteps from some distant
    staircase. Such is the feeling in the desert, even in the midst of the
    caravan. The mighty solitude is seen: the dread silence is anticipated
    which will succeed to this brief transit of men, camels, and horses.
    Awe prevails even in the midst of society: but, if the traveller
    should loiter behind
    
    from fatigue, or be so imprudent as to ramble aside-- should he
    from any cause once lose sight of his party, it is held that his chance is
    small of recovering their traces. And why? Not chiefly from the want of
    footmarks where the wind effaces all impressions in half an hour,
    or of eyemarks where all is one blank
    
    ocean of sand, but much more from the sounds or the visual appearances
    which are supposed to beset and to seduce all insulated wanderers.

Everybody
    knows the superstitions of the ancients about the Nympholeptoi, or those
    
    who had seen Pan. But far more awful and gloomy
    
    are the existing superstitions, throughout Asia and Africa,
    as to the perils of those who are phantom-haunted in the wilderness.
    The old Venetian traveller Marco Polo states them well: he speaks, indeed,
    of the Eastern or Tartar deserts; the steppes which stretch from European
    Russia to the footsteps of the Chinese throne; but exactly the
    same creed prevails amongst the Arabs, from Bagdad to Suez and Cairo--
    from Rosetta to Tunis--Tunis to Timbuctoo or Mequinez. 'If, during
    the daytime,' says he, 'any person should remain behind until
    the caravan is no longer in sight, he hears himself unexpectedly
    called to by name, and in a voice
    
    with which he is familiar. Not doubting that the voice proceeds from some
    of his comrades, the unhappy man is beguiled from the right direction; and soon
    finding himself utterly confounded as to the path, he roams about in
distraction until he perishes miserably. If, on the other hand, this perilous
separation of himself from the caravan should happen at night, he is
sure to hear the uproar of a great cavalcade a mile or two to the right
or left of the true track.

He is thus seduced on one side: and at break of day finds himself far removed from man. Nay, even at
noon-day, it is well known that grave and respectable men to all appearance
will come up to a particular traveller, will bear the look of a friend,
and will gradually lure him by earnest conversation to a distance from the
caravan; after which the sounds of men and camels will be heard
continually at all points but the true one; whilst an insensible turning
by the tenth of an inch at each separate step from the true direction
will very soon suffice to set the traveller's face to the opposite
point of the compass from that which his safety requires, and which
his fancy represents to him as his real direction.

Lord L. quotes from Vincent le Blanc an anecdote of a man in his own caravan, the companion of an
Arab merchant, who disappeared in a mysterious manner. Four Moors, with a retaining fee of 100 ducats,
were sent in quest of him, but came back re infecta. 'And 'tis uncertain,' adds Le Blanc, 'whether he was swallowed
up in the sands, or met his death by any other misfortune; as it often
happens, by the relation of a merchant then in our company, who told us,
that two years before, traversing the same journey, a comrade of his,
going a little aside from the company, saw three men who called him
by his name; and one of them, to his thinking, favored very much his
companion; and, as he was about to follow them, his real companion
calling him to come back to his company, he found himself deceived
by the others, and thus was saved.

And all travellers in these parts hold, that in the deserts are many such phantasms seen, that strive
to seduce the traveller.' Thus far it is the traveller's own fault, warned
as he is continually by the extreme anxiety of the Arab leaders or
guides, with respect to all who stray to any distance, if he is duped or
enticed by these pseudo-men: though, in the case of Lapland dogs,
who ought to have a surer instinct of detection for counterfeits,
we know from Sir Capel de Broke and others, that they are continually
wiled away by the wolves who roam about the nightly encampments of
travellers.

But there is a secondary disaster, according to the Arab superstition, awaiting those whose eyes are
once opened to the discernment of these phantoms. To see them, or to hear them, even where the traveller
is careful to refuse their lures, entails the certainty of death in no long time. This is another
form of that universal faith which made it impossible for any man to survive
a bodily commerce, by whatever sense, with a spiritual being.

We
find it in the Old Testament, where the expression, 'I have seen God and
shall die,' means simply a supernatural being; since no Hebrew believed it
possible for a nature purely human to sustain for a moment the sight
of the Infinite Being.

We find the same faith amongst ourselves, in case of doppelgaenger
becoming apparent to the sight of those whom they counterfeit; and
in many other varieties.

We modern Europeans, of course, laugh at these superstitions; though, as La Place remarks, (Essai
sur les Probabilites,) any case, however apparently incredible, if it is a recurrent case, is as much entitled to
a fair valuation as if it had been more probable beforehand.[Footnote: 'Is as much entitled to a fair
valuation, under the lans of induction, as if it had been more probable beforehand'--One of the cases
which La Place notices as entitled to a grave consideration, but which would most assuredly be treated
as a trivial phenomenon, unworthy of attention, by commonplace spectators, is--when a run of success,
with no apparent cause, takes place on heads or tails, (pile ou croix)
Most people dismiss such a case as pure accident.

But La Place insists on its being duly valued as a fact, however unaccountable as an effect. So again,
if in a large majority of experiences like those of Lord Lindsay's party in the desert, death should follow,
such a phenomenon is as well entitled to its separate valuation as any other.] This being premised,
we who connect superstition with the personal result, are more impressed by the disaster which happened to Lord
Lindsay, than his lordship, who either failed to notice the nexus between the events, or possibly declined to
put the case too forward in his reader's eye, from the solemnity of the
circumstances, and the private interest to himself and his own family,
of the subsequent event. The case was this:--Mr. William Wardlaw Ramsay,
the companion (and we believe relative) of Lord Lindsay, a man whose
honorable character, and whose intellectual accomplishments speak
for themselves, in the posthumus memorabilia of his travels published
by Lord L., had seen an array of objects in the desert, which facts
immediately succeeding demonstrated to have been a mere ocular lusus,
or (according to Arab notions) phantoms.

During
the absence from home of an Arab sheikh, who had been hired as conductor of Lord Lindsay's party,
a hostile tribe (bearing the name of Tellaheens) had assaulted and pillaged his tents. Report of this had reached
the English travelling party; it was known that the Tellaheens were still in motion, and a hostile
rencounter was looked for for some days. At length, in crossing the well known valley of the Wady Araba, that
most ancient channel of communication between the Red Sea and Judea, &c., Mr. Ramsay saw, to his own
entire conviction, a party of horse moving amongst some sand-hills. Afterwards it became certain, from
accurate information, that this must have been a delusion. It was established,
that no horseman could have been in that neighborhood at that time.

Lord Lindsay records the case as an illustration of 'that spiritualized
tone the imagination naturally assumes, in scenes presenting so little sympathy
with the ordinary feelings of humanity;' and he reports the case in
these pointed terms: --'Mr. Ramsay, a man of remarkably strong sight, and
by no means disposed to superstitious credulity, distinctly saw a party of
horse moving among the sand-hills; and I do not believe he was ever able
to divest himself of that impression.' No--and, according to Arab interpretation,
very naturally so; for, according to their faith, he really had seen the horsemen;
phantom horseman certainly, but still objects of sight. The sequel
remains to be told--by the Arabian hypothesis, Mr. Ramsay had but
a short time to live--he was under a secret summons to the next world.

And accordingly, in a few weeks after this, whilst Lord Lindsay had gone to visit Palmyra, Mr. Ramsay
died at Damascus.

This was a case exactly corresponding to the Pagan nympholepsis --he
had seen the beings whom it is not lawful to see and live. Another
case of Eastern superstition, not less determined, and not less remarkably
fulfilled, occurred some years before to Dr. Madden, who travelled pretty
much in the same route as Lord Lindsay. The doctor, as a phrenologist,
had been struck with the very singular conformation of a skull which
he saw amongst many others on an altar in some Syrian convent. He
offered a considerable sum in gold for it; but it was by repute the
skull of a saint; and the monk with whom Dr. M. attempted to negotiate,
not only refused his offers, but protested that even for the doctor's
sake, apart from the interests of the convent, he could not venture
on such a transfer: for that, by the tradition attached to it, the
skull would endanger any vessel carrying it from the Syrian shore:
the vessel might escape; but it would never succeed in reaching any
but a Syrian harbor.

    
    
    After this, for the credit of our country, which stands
    so high in the East, and should be so punctiliously
    tended by all Englishmen, we are sorry to record
    that Dr. Madden (though otherwise a man of
    scrupulous honor) yielded to the temptation of
    substituting for the saint's skull another less remarkable from his own collection.
With this saintly relic he embarked on board a Grecian ship; was alternately
pursued and met by storms the most violent; larboard and starboard,
on every quarter, he was buffeted; the wind blew from every point of
the compass; the doctor honestly confesses that he often wished this
baleful skull back in safety on the quiet altar from which he took
it; and finally, after many days of anxiety, he was too happy in
finding himself again restored to some oriental port, from which he
secretly vowed never again to sail with a saint's skull, or with any
skull, however remarkable phrenologically, not purchased in an open
market.

    
    
    
    
    
    Thus we have pursued, through many of its most memorable
    sections, the spirit of the miraculous as it
    moulded and gathered itself in the superstitions of Paganism; and we
have shown that, in the modern superstitions of Christianity, or of
Mahometanism, (often enough borrowed from Christian sources,) there is
a pretty regular correspondence.

Speaking with a reference to the strictly popular belief, it cannot be
pretended for a moment, that miraculous agencies are slumbering in modern
ages. For one superstition of that nature which the Pagans had, we
can produce twenty.

    And if, from the collation of numbers, we should pass to that of quality,
it is a matter of notoriety, that from the very philosophy of Paganism,
and its slight root in the terrors or profounder mysteries of spiritual
nature, no comparison could be sustained for a moment between the
true religion and any mode whatever of the false.

Ghosts we have purposely omitted, because that idea is so peculiarly Christian [Footnote: 'Because that idea
is so peculiarly Christian'--One reason, additional to the main one,
why the idea of a ghost could not be conceived or reproduced by Paganism,
lies in the fourfold resolution of the human nature at death, viz.--1.
corpus; 2. manes; 3. spiritus; 4. anima.

No reversionary consciousness, no restitution of the total nature, sentient
and active, was thus possible.

Pliny has a story which looks like a ghost story; but it is all moonshine--a
mere simulacrum.] as to reject all counterparts or affinities from
other modes of the supernatural.

The Christian ghost is too awful a presence, and with too large a substratum of the real, the impassioned,
the human, for our present purposes. We deal chiefly with the wilder and more aerial forms of superstition;
not so far off from fleshly nature as the purely allegoric--not so
near as the penal, the purgatorial, the penitential. In this middle
class, 'Gabriel's hounds'--the 'phantom ship'--the gloomy legends
of the charcoal burners in the German forests--and the local or epichorial
superstitions from every district of Europe, come forward by thousands,
attesting the high activity of the miraculous and the hyperphysical
instincts, even in this generation, wheresoever the voice of the
people makes itself heard.

But in Pagan times, it will be objected, the popular superstitions
blended themselves with the highest political functions, gave a sanction
to national counsels, and oftentimes gave their starting point to
the very primary movements of the state.

Prophecies, omens, miracles, all worked concurrently with senates or princes.

    When Wrekin, as a hill his proper worth that knew,
    And understood from whence their insolency grew,
    For all that they appear'd so terrible in sight,
    Yet would not once forego a jot that was his right,
    And when they star'd on him, to them the like he gave,
    And answer'd glance for glance, and brave for brave:
    That, when some other hills which English dwellers were,
    The lusty Wrekin saw himself so well to bear
    Against the Cambrian part, respectless of their power;
    His eminent disgrace expecting every hour
    Those flatterers that before (with many cheerful look)
    Had grac'd his goodly sight, him utterly forsook,
    And muffled them in clouds, like mourners veiled in black,
    Which of their utmost hope attend the ruinous wrack:
    That those delicious nymphs, fair Team and Rodon clear
    (Two brooks of him belov'd, and two that held him dear;
    He, having none but them, they having none but he
    Which to their mutual joy might either's object be)
    Within their secret breast conceivèd sundry fears,
    And as they mix'd their streams, for him so mix'd their tears.
    Whom, in their coming down, when plainly he discerns,
    For them his nobler heart in his strong bosom yearns:
    But, constantly resolv'd, that dearer if they were
    The Britons should not yet all from the English bear;
    'Therefore,' quoth he, 'brave flood, tho' forth by Cambria brought,
    Yet as fair England's friend, or mine thou would'st be thought
    (O Severn) let thine ear my just defence partake.'"

Happy phrases abound, and, moreover, every now and then there are set pieces, as they may be
called, of fanciful description which are full of beauty; for Drayton (a not very usual thing
in a man of such unflagging industry, and even excellence of work) was full of fancy. The fairy
poem of Nymphidia is one of the most graceful trifles in the language, possessing a dancing
movement and a felicitous choice of imagery and language which triumphantly avoid the trivial
on the one hand, and the obviously burlesque on the other. The singular satirical or quasi-satirical
poems of The Mooncalf, The Owl, and The Man in the Moon, show a faculty of comic treatment
less graceful indeed, but scarcely inferior, and the lyrics called Odes (of which the Ballad
of Agincourt is sometimes classed as one) exhibit a command of lyric metre hardly inferior
to the command displayed in that masterpiece. In fact, if ever there was a poet who could write,
and write, perhaps beautifully, certainly well, about any conceivable broomstick in almost
any conceivable manner, that poet was Drayton. His historical poems, which are inferior in
bulk only to the huge Polyolbion, contain a great deal of most admirable work. They consist
of three divisions--The Barons' Wars in eight-lined stanzas, the Heroic Epistles (suggested,
of course, by Ovid, though anything but Ovidian) in heroic couplets, The Miseries of Queen
Margaret in the same stanza as The Barons' Wars, and Four Legends in stanzas of various form
and range. That this mass of work should possess, or should, indeed, admit of the charms of
poetry which distinguish The Faërie Queene would be impossible, even if Drayton had been Spenser,
which he was far from being. But to speak of his "dull creeping narrative," to accuse him of
the "coarsest vulgarities," of being "flat and prosaic," and so on, as was done by eighteenth-century
critics, is absolutely uncritical, unless it be very much limited. The Barons' Wars is somewhat
dull, the author being too careful to give a minute history of a not particularly interesting
subject, and neglecting to take the only possible means of making it interesting by bringing
out strongly the characters of heroes and heroines, and so infusing a dramatic interest. But
this absence of character is a constant drawback to the historical poems of the time. And even
here we find many passages where the drawback of the stanza for narrative is most skilfully
avoided, and where the vigour of the single lines and phrases is unquestionable on any sound
estimate.

Still the stanza, though Drayton himself defends it (it should be mentioned that his prose
prefaces are excellent, and constitute another link between him and Dryden), is something of
a clog; and the same thing is felt in The Miseries of Queen Margaret and the Legends, where,
however, it is again not difficult to pick out beauties. The Heroical Epistles can be praised
with less allowance. Their shorter compass, their more manageable metre (for Drayton was a
considerable master of the earlier form of couplet), and the fact that a personal interest
is infused in each, give them a great advantage; and, as always, passages of great merit are
not infrequent. Finally, Drayton must have the praise (surely not quite irrelevant) of a most
ardent and lofty spirit of patriotism. Never was there a better Englishman, and as his love
of his country spirited him up to the brilliant effort of the Ballad of Agincourt, so it sustained
him through the "strange herculean task" of the Polyolbion, and often put light and life into
the otherwise lifeless mass of the historic poems. Yet I have myself no doubt that these historic
poems were a mistake, and that their composition, though prompted by a most creditable motive,
the burning attachment to England which won the fight with Spain, and laid the foundation of
the English empire, was not altogether, perhaps was not by any means, according to knowledge.

The almost invariable, and I fear it must be said, almost invariably idle controversy about
priority in literary styles has been stimulated, in the case of English satire, by a boast
of Joseph Hall's made in his own Virgidemiarum--

                    "Follow me who list,
    And be the second English satirist."

It has been pleaded in Hall's favour that although the date of publication of his Satires is
known, the date of their composition is not known. It is not even necessary to resort to this
kind of special pleading; for nothing can be more evident than that the bravado is not very
serious. On the literal supposition, however, and if we are to suppose that publication immediately
followed composition, Hall was anticipated by more than one or two predecessors, in the production
of work not only specifically satirical but actually called satire, and by two at least in
the adoption of the heroic couplet form which has ever since been consecrated to the subject.
Satirical poetry, of a kind, is of course nearly if not quite as old as the language, and in
the hands of Skelton it had assumed various forms. But the satire proper--the following of
the great Roman examples of Horace, Juvenal, and Persius in general lashing of vice and folly--can
hardly trace itself further back in England than George Gascoigne's Steel Glass, which preceded
Hall's Virgidemiarum by twenty years, and is interesting not only for itself but as being ushered
in by the earliest known verses of Walter Raleigh. It is written in blank verse, and is a rather
rambling commentary on the text vanitas vanitatum, but it expressly calls itself a satire and
answers sufficiently well to the description. More immediate and nearer examples were to be
found in the Satires of Donne and Lodge. The first named were indeed, like the other poetical
works of their marvellously gifted writer, not published till many years after; but universal
tradition ascribes the whole of Donne's profane poems to his early youth, and one document
exists which distinctly dates "John Donne, his Satires," as early as 1593. We shall therefore
deal with them, as with the other closely connected work of their author, here and in this
chapter. But there has to be mentioned first the feebler but chronologically more certain work
of Thomas Lodge, A Fig for Momus, which fulfils both the requirements of known date and of
composition in couplets. It appeared in 1595, two years before Hall, and is of the latest and
weakest of Lodge's verse work. It was written or at least produced when he was just abandoning
his literary and adventurous career and settling down as a quiet physician with no more wild
oats to sow, except, perhaps, some participation in popish conspiracy. The style did not lend
itself to the display of any of Lodge's strongest gifts--romantic fancy, tenderness and sweetness
of feeling, or elaborate embroidery of precious language. He follows Horace pretty closely
and with no particular vigour. Nor does the book appear to have attracted much attention, so
that it is just possible that Hall may not have heard of it. If, however, he had not, it is
certainly a curious coincidence that he, with Donne and Lodge, should all have hit on the couplet
as their form, obvious as its advantages are when it is once tried. For the rhyme points the
satirical hits, while the comparatively brief space of each distich prevents that air of wandering
which naturally accompanies satire in longer stanzas. At any rate after the work (in so many
ways remarkable) of Donne, Hall, and Marston, there could hardly be any more doubt about the
matter, though part of the method which these writers, especially Donne and Marston, took to
give individuality and "bite" to their work was as faulty as it now seems to us peculiar.

Ben Jonson, the least gushing of critics to his contemporaries, said of John Donne that he
was "the first poet of the world in some things," and I own that without going through the
long catalogue of singularly contradictory criticisms which have been passed on Donne, I feel
disposed to fall back on and adopt this earliest, simplest, and highest encomium. Possibly
Ben might not have meant the same things that I mean, but that does not matter. It is sufficient
for me that in one special point of the poetic charm--the faculty of suddenly transfiguring
common things by a flood of light, and opening up strange visions to the capable imagination--Donne
is surpassed by no poet of any language, and equalled by few. That he has obvious and great
defects, that he is wholly and in all probability deliberately careless of formal smoothness,
that he adopted the fancy of his time for quaint and recondite expression with an almost perverse
vigour, and set the example of the topsy-turvified conceits which came to a climax in Crashaw
and Cleveland, that he is almost impudently licentious in thought and imagery at times, that
he alternates the highest poetry with the lowest doggerel, the noblest thought with the most
trivial crotchet--all this is true, and all this must be allowed for; but it only chequers,
it does not obliterate, the record of his poetic gifts and graces. He is, moreover, one of
the most historically important of poets, although by a strange chance there is no known edition
of his poems earlier than 1633, some partial and privately printed issues having disappeared
wholly if they ever existed. His influence was second to the influence of no poet of his generation,
and completely overshadowed all others, towards his own latter days and the decades immediately
following his death, except that of Jonson. Thomas Carew's famous description of him as

    "A king who ruled as he thought fit
    The universal monarchy of wit,"

expresses the general opinion of the time; and even after the revolt headed by Waller had dethroned
him from the position, Dryden, his successor in the same monarchy, while declining to allow
him the praise of "the best poet" (that is, the most exact follower of the rules and system
of versifying which Dryden himself preferred), allowed him to be "the greatest wit of the nation."

His life concerns us little, and its events are not disputed, or rather, in the earlier part,
are still rather obscure. Born in 1573, educated at both universities and at Lincoln's Inn,
a traveller, a man of pleasure, a law-student, a soldier, and probably for a time a member
of the Roman Church, he seems just before reaching middle life to have experienced some religious
change, took orders, became a famous preacher, was made Dean of St. Paul's, and died in 1631.

It has been said that tradition and probability point to the composition of most, and that
all but certain documentary evidence points to the composition of some, of his poems in the
earlier part of his life. Unless the date of the Harleian MS. is a forgery, some of his satires
were written in or before 1593, when he was but twenty years old. The boiling passion, without
a thought of satiety, which marks many of his elegies would also incline us to assign them
to youth, and though some of his epistles, and many of his miscellaneous poems, are penetrated
with a quieter and more reflective spirit, the richness of fancy in them, as well as the amatory
character of many, perhaps the majority, favour a similar attribution. All alike display Donne's
peculiar poetical quality--the fiery imagination shining in dark places, the magical illumination
of obscure and shadowy thoughts with the lightning of fancy. In one remarkable respect Donne
has a peculiar cast of thought as well as of manner, displaying that mixture of voluptuous
and melancholy meditation, that swift transition of thought from the marriage sheet to the
shroud, which is characteristic of French Renaissance poets, but less fully, until he set the
example, of English. The best known and most exquisite of his fanciful flights, the idea of
the discovery of

    "A bracelet of bright hair about the bone"

of his own long interred skeleton: the wish--

    "I long to talk with some old lover's ghost
    Who died before the god of love was born,"

and others, show this peculiarity. And it recurs in the most unexpected places, as, for the
matter of that, does his strong satirical faculty. In some of his poems, as the Anatomy of
the World, occasioned by the death of Mrs. Elizabeth Drury, this melancholy imagery mixed with
touches (only touches here) of the passion which had distinguished the author earlier (for
the Anatomy is not an early work), and with religious and philosophical meditation, makes the
strangest amalgam--shot through, however, as always, with the golden veins of Donne's incomparable
poetry. Expressions so strong as this last may seem in want of justification. And the three
following pieces, the "Dream," a fragment of satire, and an extract from the Anatomy, may or
may not, according to taste, supply it:--

    "Dear love, for nothing less than thee
    Would I have broke this happy dream.
          It was a theme
    For reason, much too strong for fantasy:
    Therefore thou wak'dst me wisely; yet
    My dream thou brok'st not, but continued'st it:
    Thou art so true, that thoughts of thee suffice
    To make dreams true, and fables histories;
    Enter these arms, for since thou thought'st it best
    Not to dream all my dream, let's act the rest.

    "As lightning or a taper's light
    Thine eyes, and not thy noise, wak'd me;
          Yet I thought thee
    (For thou lov'st truth) an angel at first sight,
    But when I saw thou saw'st my heart
    And knew'st my thoughts beyond an angel's art,
    When thou knew'st what I dreamt, then thou knew'st when
    Excess of joy would wake me, and cam'st then;
    I must confess, it could not choose but be
    Profane to think thee anything but thee.

    "Coming and staying show'd thee thee,
    But rising makes me doubt that now
          Thou art not thou.
    That love is weak where fears are strong as he;
    'Tis not all spirit, pure and brave,
    If mixture it of fear, shame, honour, have.
    Perchance as torches which must ready be
    Men light, and put out, so thou deal'st with me.
    Thou cam'st to kindle, goest to come: then I
    Will dream that hope again, or else would die."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "O age of rusty iron! some better wit
    Call it some worse name, if ought equal it.
    Th' iron age was, when justice was sold: now
    Injustice is sold dearer far; allow
    All claim'd fees and duties, gamesters, anon
    The money, which you sweat and swear for's gone
    Into other hands; so controverted lands
    'Scape, like Angelica, the striver's hands.
    If law be in the judge's heart, and he
    Have no heart to resist letter or fee,
    Where wilt thou appeal? power of the courts below
    Flows from the first main head, and these can throw
    Thee, if they suck thee in, to misery,
    To fetters, halters. But if th' injury
    Steel thee to dare complain, alas! thou go'st
    Against the stream upwards when thou art most
    Heavy and most faint; and in these labours they
    'Gainst whom thou should'st complain will in thy way
    Become great seas, o'er which when thou shalt be
    Forc'd to make golden bridges, thou shalt see
    That all thy gold was drowned in them before."

But no short extracts will show Donne, and there is no room for a full anthology. He must be
read, and by every catholic student of English literature should be regarded with a respect
only "this side idolatry," though the respect need not carry with it blindness to his undoubtedly
glaring faults.

Those faults are not least seen in his Satires, though neither the unbridled voluptuousness
which makes his Elegies shocking to modern propriety, nor the far-off conceit which appears
in his meditative and miscellaneous poems, is very strongly or specially represented here.
Nor, naturally enough, is the extreme beauty of thought and allusion distinctly noteworthy
in a class of verse which does not easily admit it. On the other hand, the force and originality
of Donne's intellect are nowhere better shown. It is a constant fault of modern satirists that
in their just admiration for Horace and Juvenal they merely paraphrase them, and, instead of
going to the fountainhead and taking their matter from human nature, merely give us fresh studies
of Ibam forte via sacra or the Tenth of Juvenal, adjusted to the meridians of Paris or London.
Although Donne is not quite free from this fault, he is much freer than either of his contemporaries,
Regnier or Hall. And the rough vigour of his sketches and single lines is admirable. Yet it
is as rough as it is vigorous; and the breakneck versification and contorted phrase of his
satires, softened a little in Hall, roughened again and to a much greater degree in Marston,
and reaching, as far as phrase goes, a rare extreme in the Transformed Metamorphosis of Cyril
Tourneur, have been the subject of a great deal of discussion. It is now agreed by all the
best authorities that it would be a mistake to consider this roughness unintentional or merely
clumsy, and that it sprung, at any rate in great degree, from an idea that the ancients intended
the Satura to be written in somewhat unpolished verse, as well as from a following of the style
of Persius, the most deliberately obscure of all Latin if not of all classical poets. In language
Donne is not (as far as his Satires are concerned) a very great sinner; but his versification,
whether by his own intention or not, leaves much to desire. At one moment the ten syllables
are only to be made out by a Chaucerian lengthening of the mute e; at another the writer seems
to be emulating Wyatt in altering the accent of syllables, and coolly making the final iambus
of a line out of such a word as "answer." It is no wonder that poets of the "correct" age thought
him in need of rewriting; though even they could not mistake the force of observation and expression
which characterises his Satires, and which very frequently reappears even in his dreamiest
metaphysics, his most recondite love fancies, and his warmest and most passionate hymns to
Aphrodite Pandemos.

These artificial characteristics are supplemented in the Elizabethan satirists, other than
Donne, by yet a third, which makes them, I confess, to me rather tedious reading, independently
of their shambling metre, and their sometimes almost unconstruable syntax. This is the absurd
affectation of extreme moral wrath against the corruptions of their time in which they all
indulge. Marston, who is nearly the foulest, if not quite the foulest writer of any English
classic, gives himself the airs of the most sensitive puritan; Hall, with a little less of
this contrast, sins considerably in the same way, and adds to his delinquencies a most petulant
and idle attempt to satirise from the purely literary point of view writers who are a whole
head and shoulders above himself. And these two, followed by their imitator, Guilpin, assail
each other in a fashion which argues either a very absurd sincerity of literary jealousy, or
a very ignoble simulation of it, for the purpose of getting up interest on the part of the
public. Nevertheless, both Marston and Hall are very interesting figures in English literature,
and their satirical performances cannot be passed over in any account of it.

Joseph Hall was born near Ashby de la Zouch, of parents in the lower yeoman rank of life, had
his education at the famous Puritan College of Emanuel at Cambridge, became a Fellow thereof,
proceeded through the living of Hawstead and a canonry at Wolverhampton to the sees of Exeter
and Norwich, of the latter of which he was violently deprived by the Parliament, and, not surviving
long enough to see the Restoration, died (1656) in a suburb of his cathedral city. His later
life was important for religious literature and ecclesiastical politics, in his dealings with
the latter of which he came into conflict, not altogether fortunately for the younger and greater
man of letters, with John Milton. His Satires belong to his early Cambridge days, and to the
last decade of the sixteenth century. They have on the whole been rather overpraised, though
the variety of their matter and the abundance of reference to interesting social traits of
the time to some extent redeem them. The worst point about them, as already noted, is the stale
and commonplace impertinence with which their author, unlike the best breed of young poets
and men of letters, attempts to satirise his literary betters; while they are to some extent
at any rate tarred with the other two brushes of corrupt imitation of the ancients, and of
sham moral indignation. Indeed the want of sincerity--the evidence of the literary exercise--injures
Hall's satirical work in different ways throughout. We do not, as we read him, in the least
believe in his attitude of Hebrew prophet crossed with Roman satirist, and the occasional presence
of a vigorous couplet or a lively metaphor hardly redeems this disbelief. Nevertheless, Hall
is here as always a literary artist--a writer who took some trouble with his writings; and
as some of his satires are short, a whole one may be given:--

    "A gentle squire would gladly entertain
    Into his house some trencher-chaplain;[30]
    Some willing man that might instruct his sons
    And that would stand to good conditions.
    First, that he lie upon the truckle bed,
    Whiles his young master lieth o'er his head.
    Second, that he do, on no default,[31]
    Ever presume to sit above the salt.
    Third, that he never change his trencher twice.
    Fourth, that he use all common courtesies;
    Sit bare at meals, and one half rise and wait.
    Last, that he never his young master beat,
    But he must ask his mother to define,
    How many jerks she would his breech should line.
    All these observ'd he could contented be
    To give five marks and winter livery."

[30] "Chaplain"--trisyllable like "capellan."

[31] Missing syllable.

John Marston, who out-Halled Hall in all his literary misdeeds, was, it would appear, a member
of a good Shropshire family which had passed into Warwickshire. He was educated at Coventry
School, and at Brasenose College, Oxford, and passed early into London literary society, where
he involved himself in the inextricable and not-much-worth-extricating quarrels which have
left their mark in Jonson's and Dekker's dramas. In the first decade of the seventeenth century
he wrote several remarkable plays, of much greater literary merit than the work now to be criticised.
Then he took orders, was presented to the living of Christchurch, and, like others of his time,
seems to have forsworn literature as an unholy thing. He died in 1634. Here we are concerned
only with two youthful works of his--Pigmalion's Image and some Satires in 1598, followed in
the same year by a sequel, entitled The Scourge of Villainy. In these works he called himself
"W. Kinsayder," a pen-name for which various explanations have been given. It is characteristic
and rather comical that, while both the earlier Satires and The Scourge denounce lewd verse
most fullmouthedly, Pigmalion's Image is a poem in the Venus and Adonis style which is certainly
not inferior to its fellows in luscious descriptions. It was, in fact, with the Satires and
much similar work, formally condemned and burnt in 1599. Both in Hall and in Marston industrious
commentators have striven hard to identify the personages of the satire with famous living
writers, and there may be a chance that some at least of their identifications (as of Marston's
Tubrio with Marlowe) are correct. But the exaggeration and insincerity, the deliberate "society-journalism"
(to adopt a detestable phrase for a corresponding thing of our own days), which characterise
all this class of writing make the identifications of but little interest. In every age there
are writers who delight in representing that age as the very worst of the history of the world,
and in ransacking literature and imagination for accusations against their fellows. The sedate
philosopher partly brings and partly draws the conviction that one time is very like another.
Marston, however, has fooled himself and his readers to the very top of his and their bent;
and even Churchill, restrained by a more critical atmosphere, has not come quite near his confused
and only half-intelligible jumble of indictments for indecent practices and crude philosophy
of the moral and metaphysical kind. A vigorous line or phrase occasionally redeems the chaos
of rant, fustian, indecency, ill-nature, and muddled thought.

    "Ambitious Gorgons, wide-mouth'd Lamians,
    Shape-changing Proteans, damn'd Briarians,
    Is Minos dead, is Radamanth asleep,
    That ye thus dare unto Jove's palace creep?
    What, hath Ramnusia spent her knotted whip,
    That ye dare strive on Hebe's cup to sip?
    Ye know Apollo's quiver is not spent,
    But can abate your daring hardiment.
    Python is slain, yet his accursed race
    Dare look divine Astrea in the face;
    Chaos return and with confusion
    Involve the world with strange disunion;
    For Pluto sits in that adorèd chair
    Which doth belong unto Minerva's heir.
    O hecatombs! O catastrophe!
    From Midas' pomp to Trus' beggary!
    Prometheus, who celestial fire
    Did steal from heaven, therewith to inspire
    Our earthly bodies with a sense-ful mind,
    Whereby we might the depth of nature find,
    Is ding'd to hell, and vulture eats his heart
    Which did such deep philosophy impart
    To mortal men."

The contrast of this so-called satire, and the really satiric touches of Marston's own plays,
when he was not cramped by the affectations of the style, is very curious.

Edward Gilpin or Guilpin, author of the rare book Skialetheia, published between the dates
of Hall and Marston, is, if not a proved plagiarist from either, at any rate an obvious follower
in the same track. There is the same exaggeration, the same petulant ill-nature, the same obscurity
of phrase and ungainliness of verse, and the same general insincerity. But the fine flower
of the whole school is perhaps to be found in the miraculous Transformed Metamorphosis, attributed
to the powerful but extravagant dramatist, Cyril Tourneur, who wrote this kind of thing:--

    "From out the lake a bridge ascends thereto,
      Whereon in female shape a serpent stands.
    Who eyes her eye, or views her blue-vein'd brow,
      With sense-bereaving glozes she enchants,
      And when she sees a worldling blind that haunts
    The pleasure that doth seem there to be found,
    She soothes with Leucrocutanized sound.

    "Thence leads an entry to a shining hall
      Bedecked with flowers of the fairest hue;
    The Thrush, the Lark, and night's-joy Nightingale
      There minulize their pleasing lays anew,
      This welcome to the bitter bed of rue;
    This little room will scarce two wights contain
    T' enjoy their joy, and there in pleasure reign.

    "But next thereto adjoins a spacious room,
      More fairly fair adorned than the other:
    (O woe to him at sin-awhaping doom,
      That to these shadows hath his mind given over)
      For (O) he never shall his soul recover:
    If this sweet sin still feeds him with her smack
    And his repentant hand him hales not back."[32]

[32] Mr. Churton Collins is "tolerably confident," and perhaps he might have been quite certain,
that Leucrocutanized refers to one of the Fauna of fancy,--a monster that spoke like a man.
"Minulise," from minurizô, "I sing." "To awhape" = "to confound."

We could hardly end with anything farther removed from the clear philosophy and the serene
loveliness of The Faërie Queene.

CHAPTER V

THE SECOND DRAMATIC PERIOD--SHAKESPERE

The difficulty of writing about Shakespere is twofold; and though it is a difficulty which,
in both its aspects, presents itself when other great writers are concerned, there is no other
case in which it besets the critic to quite the same extent. Almost everything that is worth
saying has been already said, more or less happily. A vast amount has been said which is not
in the least worth saying, which is for the most part demonstrably foolish or wrong. As Shakespere
is by far the greatest of all writers, ancient or modern, so he has been the subject of commentatorial
folly to an extent which dwarfs the expense of that folly on any other single subject. It is
impossible to notice the results of this folly except at great length; it is doubtful whether
they are worth noticing at all; yet there is always the danger either that some mischievous
notions may be left undisturbed by the neglect to notice them, or that the critic himself may
be presumed to be ignorant of the foolishness of his predecessors. These inconveniences, however,
must here be risked, and it may perhaps be thought that the necessity of risking them is a
salutary one. In no other case is it so desirable that an author should be approached by students
with the minimum of apparatus.

The scanty facts and the abundant fancies as to Shakespere's life are a commonplace of literature.
He was baptized on the 26th of April 1564 at Stratford-on-Avon, and must have been born either
on the same day, or on one of those immediately preceding. His father was John Shakespere,
his mother Mary Arden, both belonging to the lower middle class and connected, personally and
by their relations, with yeomanry and small landed gentry on the one side, and with well-to-do
tradesmen on the other. Nothing is known of his youth and little of his education; but it was
a constant tradition of men of his own and the immediately succeeding generation that he had
little school learning. Before he was nineteen he was married, at the end of November 1582,
to Anne Hathaway, who was seven years his senior. Their first child, Susannah, was baptized
six months later. He is said to have left Stratford for London in 1585, or thereabouts, and
to have connected himself at once with the theatre, first in humble and then in more important
positions. But all this is mist and myth. He is transparently referred to by Robert Greene
in the summer or autumn of 1592, and the terms of the reference prove his prosperity. The same
passage brought out a complimentary reference to Shakespere's intellectual and moral character
from Chettle, Greene's editor. He published Venus and Adonis in 1593, and Lucrece next year.
His plays now began to appear rapidly, and brought him money enough to buy, in 1597, the house
of New Place at Stratford, and to establish himself there after, it is supposed, twelve years'
almost complete absence from his birthplace and his family. Documentary references to his business
matters now become not infrequent, but, except as showing that he was alive and prosperous,
they are quite uninteresting. The same may be said of the marriages and deaths of his children.
In 1609 appeared the Sonnets, some of which had previously been printed in unauthorised and
piratical publications. He died on the 23d of April (supposed generally to be his birthday)
1616, and was buried at Stratford. His plays had been only surreptitiously printed, the retention
of a play in manuscript being of great importance to the actors, and the famous first folio
did not appear till seven years after his death.

The canon of Shakespere's plays, like everything else connected with him, has been the subject
of endless discussion. There is no reasonable doubt that in his earlier days (the first printed
play among those ordinarily assigned to him, Romeo and Juliet, dates from 1597) he had taken
part in dramatic work which is now mostly anonymous or assigned to other men, and there is
also no doubt that there may be passages in the accepted plays which he owed to others. But
my own deliberate judgment is that no important and highly probable ascription of extant work
to Shakespere can be made outside the canon as usually printed, with the doubtful exception
of The Two Noble Kinsmen; and I do not believe that in the plays usually accepted, any very
important or characteristic portion is not Shakespere's. As for Shakespere-Bacon theories,
and that kind of folly, they are scarcely worthy even of mention. Nor among the numerous other
controversies and errors on the subject shall I meddle with more than one--the constantly repeated
assertion that England long misunderstood or neglected Shakespere, and that foreign aid, chiefly
German (though some include Voltaire!), was required to make her discover him. A very short
way is possible with this absurdity. It would be difficult to name any men more representative
of cultivated literary opinion and accomplishment in the six generations (taking a generation
at the third of a century) which passed between Shakespere's death and the battle of Waterloo
(since when English admiration of Shakespere will hardly be denied), than Ben Jonson, John
Milton, John Dryden, Alexander Pope, Samuel Johnson, and Samuel Taylor Coleridge. Their lives
overlapped each other considerably, so that no period is left uncovered. They were all typical
men of letters, each of his own time, and four at least of them were literary dictators. Now,
Ben Jonson's estimate of Shakespere in prose and verse is on record in more places than one,
and is as authentic as the silly stories of his envy are mythical. If Milton, to his eternal
disgrace, flung, for party purposes, the study of Shakespere as a reproach in his dead king's
face, he had himself long before put on record his admiration for him, and his own study is
patent to every critical reader of his works. Dryden, but a year or two after the death of
Shakespere's daughter, drew up that famous and memorable eulogy which ought to be familiar
to all, and which, long before any German had spoken of Shakespere, and thirty years before
Voltaire had come into the world, exactly and precisely based the structure of Shakespere-worship.
Pope edited Shakespere. Johnson edited him. Coleridge is acknowledged as, with his contemporaries
Lamb and Hazlitt, the founder of modern appreciation. It must be a curious reckoning which,
in face of such a catena as this, stretching its links over the whole period, maintains that
England wanted Germans to teach her how to admire the writer whom Germans have done more to
mystify and distort than even his own countrymen.

The work of Shakespere falls into three divisions very unequal in bulk. There is first (speaking
both in the order of time and in that of thought, though not in that of literary importance
and interest) the small division of poems, excluding the Sonnets, but including Venus and Adonis,
The Rape of Lucrece, and the few and uncertain but exquisite scraps, the Lover's Complaint,
The Passionate Pilgrim, and so forth. All these are likely to have been the work of early youth,
and they are much more like the work of other men than any other part of Shakespere's work,
differing chiefly in the superior sweetness of those wood-notes wild, which Milton justly,
if not altogether adequately, attributed to the poet, and in the occasional appearance of the
still more peculiar and unique touches of sympathy with and knowledge of universal nature which
supply the main Shakesperian note. The Venus and the Lucrece form part of a large collection
(see last chapter) of extremely luscious, not to say voluptuous, poetry which the imitation
of Italian models introduced into England, which has its most perfect examples in the earlier
of these two poems, in numerous passages of Spenser, and in the Hero and Leander of Marlowe,
but which was written, as will have been seen from what has been already said, with extraordinary
sweetness and abundance, by a vast number of Elizabethan writers. There are extant mere adespota,
and mere "minor poems" (such as the pretty "Britain's Ida," which used to be printed as Spenser's,
and which some critics have rather rashly given to Phineas Fletcher), good enough to have made
reputation, if not fortune, at other times. There is no reason to attribute to Shakespere on
the one hand, any deliberate intention of executing a tour de force in the composition of these
poems or, in his relinquishment of the style, any deliberate rejection of the kind as unworthy
of his powers on the other. He appears to have been eminently one of those persons who care
neither to be in nor out of the fashion, but follow it as far as suits and amuses them. Yet,
beautiful as these poems are, they so manifestly do not present their author at the full of
his powers, or even preluding in the kind wherein the best of those powers were to be shown,
that they require comparatively little critical notice. As things delightful to read they can
hardly be placed too high, especially the Venus; as evidences of the poet's many-sided nature,
they are interesting. But they are in somewhat other than the usual sense quite "simple, sensuous,
and passionate." The misplaced ingenuity which, neglecting the unum necessarium, will busy
itself about all sorts of unnecessary things, has accordingly been rather hard put to it with
them, and to find any pasture at all has had to browse on questions of dialect, and date, and
personal allusion, even more jejune and even more unsubstantial than usual.

It is quite otherwise with the Sonnets. In the first place nowhere in Shakespere's work is
it more necessary to brush away the cobwebs of the commentators. This side of madness, no vainer
fancies have ever entered the mind of man than those which have been inspired by the immaterial
part of the matter. The very initials of the dedicatee "W. H." have had volumes written about
them; the Sonnets themselves have been twisted and classified in every conceivable shape; the
persons to whom they are addressed, or to whom they refer, have been identified with half the
gentlemen and ladies of Elizabeth's court, and half the men of letters of the time; and every
extremity and eccentricity of non-natural interpretation has been applied to them. When they
are freed from this torture and studied rationally, there is nothing mysterious about them
except the mystery of their poetical beauty. Some of them are evidently addressed in the rather
hyperbolical language of affection, common at the time, and derived from the study of Greek
and Italian writers, to a man; others, in language not hyperbolical at all, to a woman. Disdain,
rivalry, suspense, short-lived joy, long sorrow, all the symptoms and concomitants of the passion
of love--which are only commonplaces as death and life are commonplace--form their motives.
For my part I am unable to find the slightest interest or the most rudimentary importance in
the questions whether the Mr. W. H. of the dedication was the Earl of Pembroke, and if so,
whether he was also the object of the majority of the Sonnets; whether the "dark lady," the
"woman coloured ill," was Miss Mary Fitton; whether the rival poet was Chapman. Very likely
all these things are true: very likely not one of them is true. They are impossible of settlement,
and if they were settled they would not in the slightest degree affect the poetical beauty
and the human interest of the Sonnets, which, in a strange reductio ad absurdum of eighteenth
century commonsense criticism, Hallam thought it impossible not to wish that Shakespere had
not written, and which some critics, not perhaps of the least qualified, have regarded as the
high-water mark of English, if not of all, poetry.

This latter estimate will only be dismissed as exaggerated by those who are debarred from appreciation
by want of sympathy with the subject, or distracted by want of comprehension of it. A harmony
of the two chief opposing theories of poetry will teach us that we must demand of the very
highest poetry first--the order is not material--a certain quality of expression, and secondly,
a certain quality of subject. "What that quality of subject must be has been, as it seems to
me, crudely and wrongly stated, but rightly indicated, in Mr. Matthew Arnold's formula of the
"Criticism of Life." That is to say, in less debatable words, the greatest poet must show most
knowledge of human nature. Now both these conditions are fulfilled in the sonnets of Shakespere
with a completeness and intensity impossible to parallel elsewhere.

Any competent judge of the formal part of poetry must admit that its force can no farther go.
Verse and phrase cannot be better moulded to the melodious suggestion of beauty. Nor, as even
these scraps show, is the thought below the verse. Even if Hallam's postulate of misplaced
and ill-regulated passion be granted (and I am myself very far from granting it), the extraordinary
wealth of thought, of knowledge, of nature, of self-knowledge, of clear vision of others in
the very midst of the circumstances which might make for unclear vision, is still unmistakable.
And if the poet's object was to catch up the sum of love and utter it with or even without
any special relation to his own actual feelings for any actual person (a hypothesis which human
nature in general, and the nature of poets in particular, makes not improbable), then it can
only be said that he has succeeded. From Sappho and Solomon to Shelley and Mr. Swinburne, many
bards have spoken excellently of love: but what they have said could be cut out of Shakespere's
sonnets better said than they have said it, and yet enough remain to furnish forth the greatest
of poets.

With the third and in every sense chief division of the work, the necessities for explanation
and allowance cease altogether. The thirty-seven plays of the ordinary Shakesperian canon comprise
the greatest, the most varied, the most perfect work yet done by any man in literature; and
what is more, the work of which they consist is on the whole the most homogeneous and the least
unequal ever so done. The latter statement is likely to be more questioned than the former;
but I have no fear of failing to make it out. In one sense, no doubt, Shakespere is unequal--as
life is. He is not always at the tragic heights of Othello and Hamlet, at the comic raptures
of Falstaff and Sir Toby, at the romantic ecstasies of Romeo and Titania. Neither is life.
But he is always--and this is the extraordinary and almost inexplicable difference, not merely
between him and all his contemporaries, but between him and all other writers--at the height
of the particular situation. This unique quality is uniquely illustrated in his plays. The
exact order of their composition is entirely unknown, and the attempts which have been made
to arrange it into periods, much more to rank play after play in regular sequence, are obvious
failures, and are discredited not merely by the inadequate means--such as counting syllables
and attempting to classify the cadence of lines--resorted to in order to effect them, but by
the hopeless discrepancy between the results of different investigators and of the same investigator
at different times. We know indeed pretty certainly that Romeo and Juliet was an early play,
and Cymbeline a late one, with other general facts of the same kind. We know pretty certainly
that the Henry the Sixth series was based on a previous series on the same subject in which
Shakespere not improbably had a hand; that King John and The Taming of the Shrew had in the
same way first draughts from the same or other hands, and so forth. But all attempts to arrange
and elucidate a chronological development of Shakespere's mind and art have been futile. Practically
the Shakesperian gifts are to be found passim in the Shakesperian canon--even in the dullest
of all the plays, as a whole, The Two Gentlemen of Verona, even in work so alien from his general
practice, and so probably mixed with other men's work, as Titus Andronicus and Pericles. There
are rarely elsewhere--in The Maid's Tragedy of Fletcher, in The Duchess of Malfi of Webster,
in The Changeling of Middleton--passages or even scenes which might conceivably have been Shakespere's.
But there is, with the doubtful exception of The Two Noble Kinsmen, no play in any other man's
work which as a whole or in very great part is Shakesperian, and there is no play usually recognised
as Shakespere's which would not seem out of place and startling in the work of any contemporary.

This intense, or rather (for intense is not the right word) this extraordinarily diffused character,
is often supposed to be a mere fancy of Shakespere-worshippers. It is not so. There is something,
not so much in the individual flashes of poetry, though it is there too, as in the entire scope
and management of Shakespere's plays, histories, tragedies, and comedies alike, which distinguishes
them, and it is exactly the characteristic noted above, and well put by Dryden in his famous
definition of Shakespere. Perhaps the first branch or phase of this distinction is that Shakespere
is never, in the vulgar sense of the word, unnatural. He has not the slightest objection to
horrors; the alarmed foreign critics who described his theatre as a "shambles" need not have
gone farther than his greatest plays to justify themselves literally. But with barely even
the exception which has so often to be made of Titus Andronicus, his horrors are never sought
beyond a certain usual and probable round of circumstance, and are almost always tempered and
humanised by touches of humour or pathos, or both. The cool sarcastic villany of Aaron (a mood
hit off nowhere out of Shakespere, except in Middleton's De Flores, and not fully there) is
the point on which I should chiefly put the finger to justify at least a partial Shakesperian
authorship. Contrast the character with the nightmare ghastlinesses and extravagances not merely
of Tourneur and Webster, but even of Marlowe in Barabas, and the difference of Shakespere's
handling will be felt at once. Another point which has been often, yet perhaps not quite fully,
noticed is the distinct and peculiar attitude of Shakespere towards what is in the common sense
called morality. Nobody can possibly call him squeamish: I do not know that even any French
naturalist of the latest school has charged the author of Pericles, and Love's Labour Lost,
and Henry IV., with that pruderie bête of which they accuse Scott. But he never makes those
forms of vice which most trouble and corrupt society triumphant; he never diverges into the
morbid pathology of the amatory passion, and above all, and most remarkably of all, though
I think least remarked, he never makes his personages show the singular toleration of the most
despicable immorality which almost all his dramatic contemporaries exhibit. One is constantly
astonished at the end of an Elizabethan play, when, after vice has been duly baffled or punished,
and virtue rewarded (for they all more or less follow that rule), reconciliations and forgivenesses
of injuries follow, to observe the complacency with which husbands who have sold their wives'
favours, wives who have been at the command of the first comer or the highest bidder, mix cheek
by jowl, and apparently unrebuked, with the modest maidens, the virtuous matrons, the faithful
lovers of the piece. Shakespere never does this. Mrs. Quickly is indeed at one time the confidante
of Anne Fenton, and at another the complaisant hostess of Doll Tear-sheet, but not in the same
play. We do not find Marina's master and mistress rewarded, as they would very likely have
been by Fletcher or Middleton, with comfortable if not prominent posts at the court of Pericles,
or the Government-house of Mytilene. The ugly and artistically unmanageable situation of the
husband who trades in his wife's honour simply does not occur in all the wide license and variety
of Shakespere's forty plays. He is in his own sense liberal as the most easy going can demand,
but he never mixes vice and virtue. Yet again, while practising this singular moderation in
the main element, in the most fertile motives, of tragedy and comedy respectively, he is equally
alone in his use in both of the element of humour. And here we are on dangerous ground. To
many excellent persons of all times since his own, as well as in it, Shakespere's humour and
his use of it have been stumbling-blocks. Some of them have been less able to away with the
use, some with the thing. Shakesperian clowns are believed to be red rags to some experienced
playwrights and accomplished wits of our own days: the porter in Macbeth, the gravediggers
in Hamlet, the fool in Lear, even the humours in Love's Labour Lost and The Merchant of Venice
have offended. I avow myself an impenitent Shakesperian in this respect also. The constant
or almost constant presence of that humour which ranges from the sarcastic quintessence of
Iago, and the genial quintessence of Falstaff, through the fantasies of Feste and Edgar, down
to the sheer nonsense which not unfrequently occurs, seems to me not only delightful in itself,
but, as I have hinted already, one of the chief of those spells by which Shakespere has differentiated
his work in the sense of universality from that of all other dramatists. I have used the word
nonsense, and I may be thought to have partly given up my case by it. But nonsense, as hardly
any critic but Hazlitt has had the courage to avow openly, is no small part of life, and it
is a part the relish of which Englishmen, as the same great but unequal critic justly maintains,
are almost alone in enjoying and recognising. It is because Shakespere dares, and dares very
frequently, simply desipere, simply to be foolish, that he is so pre-eminently wise. The others
try to be always wise, and, alas! it is not necessary to complete the antithesis.

These three things--restraint in the use of sympathy with suffering, restraint in the use of
interest in voluptuous excess, and humour--are, as it seems to me, the three chief distinguishing
points in Shakespere's handling which are not found in any of his contemporaries, for though
there is humour in not a few of these, none of them is a perfect humorist in the same sense.
Here, as well as in that general range or width of subject and thought which attracted Dryden's
eulogium, he stands alone. In other respects he shares the qualities which are perceptible
almost throughout this wonderfully fertile department of literature; but he shares them as
infinitely the largest shareholder. It is difficult to think of any other poet (for with Homer
we are deprived of the opportunity of comparison) who was so completely able to meet any one
of his contemporaries on that contemporary's own terms in natural gift. I say natural gift
because, though it is quite evident that Shakespere was a man of no small reading, his deficiencies
in general education are too constantly recorded by tradition, and rendered too probable by
internal evidence, to be ignored or denied by any impartial critic. But it is difficult to
mention a quality possessed by any of the school (as it is loosely called), from Marlowe to
Shirley, which he had not in greater measure; while the infinite qualities which he had, and
the others each in one way or another lacked, are evident. On only one subject--religion--is
his mouth almost closed; certainly, as the few utterances that touch it show, from no incapacity
of dealing with it, and apparently from no other dislike than a dislike to meddle with anything
outside of the purely human province of which he felt that he was universal master--in short
from an infinite reverence.

It will not be expected that in a book like the present--the whole space of which might very
well be occupied, without any of the undue dilation which has been more than once rebuked,
in dealing with Shakespere alone--any attempt should be made to criticise single plays, passages,
and characters. It is the less of a loss that in reality, as the wisest commentators have always
either begun or ended by acknowledging, Shakespere is your only commentator on Shakespere.
Even the passages which corrupt printing, or the involved fashion of speaking peculiar to the
time, make somewhat obscure at first, will in almost every case yield to the unassisted cogitation
of any ordinarily intelligent person; and the results so reached are far more likely to be
the true results than the elaborate emendations which delight a certain class of editors. A
certain amount of mere glossary is of course necessary, but otherwise the fewer corks and bladders
the swimmer takes with him when he ventures into "the ocean which is Shakespere," the better.
There are, however, certain common errors, some of which have survived even the last century
of Shakespere-study and Shakespere-worship, which must perhaps be discussed. For in the case
of the greatest writers, the business of the critic is much more to shovel away the rubbish
of his predecessors than to attempt any accumulation of his own. The chief of these errors--or
rather that error which practically swallows up all the others and can produce them again at
any time--is that Shakespere was, if not exactly an inspired idiot, at any rate a mainly tentative
if not purely unconscious artist, much of whose work is only not bad as art, while most, if
not all of it, was originally produced with a minimum of artistic consciousness and design.
This enormous error, which is protean in form, has naturally induced the counter error of a
too great insistence on the consciousness and elaboration of Shakespere's art. The most elaborate
theories of this art have been framed--theories involving the construction of perhaps as much
baseless fabric as anything else connected with the subject, which is saying a great deal.
It appears to me in the highest degree improbable that Shakespere had before him consciously
more than three purposes; but these three I think that he constantly had, and that he was completely
successful in achieving them. The first was to tell in every play a dramatically complete story;
the second was to work that story out by the means of purely human and probable characters;
and the third was to give such form and ornaments to the working out as might please the playgoers
of his day. In pursuing the first two he was the poet or dramatist of all time. In pursuing
the third he was the intelligent playwright. But (and here is the source of the common error)
it by no means follows that his attention, and his successful attention, to his third purpose
in any way interferes with, or degrades, his excellence as a pursuer of the first two. In the
first place, it can escape no careful student that the merely playwright part of Shakespere's
work is (as is the case with no other dramatic author whatever) singularly separable. No generation
since his death has had the slightest difficulty in adapting by far the greater part of his
plays to use and popularity in its own day, though the adaptation may have varied in liberty
and in good taste with the standards of the time. At the present day, while almost all other
old dramatists have ceased to be acted at all, or are acted merely as curiosities, the adaptation
of Shakespere has become more and more a process of simple omission (without the addition or
alteration of anything) of parts which are either unsuited to modern manners or too long for
modern patience. With the two usual exceptions, Pericles and Titus Andronicus (which, despite
the great beauty of parts, are evidently less Shakesperian as wholes than any others), there
is not a single play of the whole number that could not be--there are not many that have not
been--acted with success in our time. It would be difficult to find a stronger differentia
from the work of the mere playwright, who invariably thinks first of the temporary conditions
of success, and accordingly loses the success which is not temporary. But the second great
difference of Shakespere is, that even what may be in comparison called the ephemeral and perishable
parts of him have an extraordinary vitality, if not theatrical yet literary, of their own.
The coarser scenes of Measure for Measure and The Comedy of Errors, the satire on fleeting
follies in Love's Labour Lost, the uncomelier parts of All's Well that Ends Well, the Doll
Tear-sheet business of Henry IV., the comic by-play of Troilus and Cressida, may seem mere
wood, hay, and stubble in comparison with the nobler portions. Yet the fire of time has not
consumed them: they are as delightful as ever in the library if not on the stage.

Little or nothing need be said in defence of Shakespere as an artist from the attacks of the
older or Unity criticism. That maleficent giant can now hardly grin at the pilgrims whom he
once harassed. But there are many persons who, not dreaming of the Unities, still object in
language less extravagant than Voltaire's or George the Third's, but with hardly less decision,
to the "sad stuff," the fumier of Shakespere's admixture of comedy with tragedy, of his digressions
and episodes, of his multifarious underplots and minor groups, and ramifications of interest
or intrigue. The reply to this is not (as it might be, if any reply were not superfluous, in
the case of the Unity objection) a reply of demonstration. If any person experienced in literature,
and with an interest in it, experienced in life and with an interest in that, asserts that
Caliban and Trinculo interfere with his enjoyment of Ferdinand and Miranda; that the almost
tragedy of Hero is marred for him by the comedy of Beatrice and the farce of Dogberry; that
he would have preferred A Midsummer Night's Dream without the tedious brief effort of Quince
and his companions; that the solemnity and passion of Hamlet and Macbeth cause in him a revulsion
against the porter and the gravedigger; that the Fool and Edgar are out of place in Lear,--it
is impossible to prove to him by the methods of any Euclid or of any Aldrich that he is wrong.
The thing is essentially, if not wholly, a matter of taste. It is possible, indeed, to point
out, as in the case of the Unities, that the objectors, if they will maintain their objection,
must deny the position that the dramatic art holds up the mirror to Nature, and that if they
deny it, the burden--a burden never yet successfully taken up by any one--of framing a new
definition rests upon them. But this is only a partial and somewhat inconclusive argument,
and the person who genuinely dislikes these peculiarities of Shakespere is like a man who genuinely
dislikes wine or pictures or human faces, that seem delightful and beautiful to others. I am
not aware of any method whereby I can prove that the most perfect claret is better than zoedone
in flavour, or that the most exquisite creation of Botticelli or Leonardo is more beautiful
than the cuts on the sides of railway novels. Again, it is matter of taste.

It will be seen that I am not for my part afraid to avow myself a thoroughgoing Shakesperian,
who accepts the weak points of his master as well as the strong. It is often forgotten (indeed
I do not know where I have seen it urged) that there is in Shakespere's case an excuse for
the thousand lines that good Ben Jonson would have liked him to blot,--an excuse which avails
for no one else. No one else has his excuse of universality; no one else has attempted to paint,
much less has painted, the whole of life. It is because Shakespere has attempted this, and,
in the judgment of at least some, has succeeded in it, that the spots in his sun are so different
from the spots in all other suns. I do not know an unnatural character or an unnatural scene
in Shakespere, even among those which have most evidently been written to the gallery. Everything
in him passes, in some mysterious way, under and into that "species of eternity" which transforms
all the great works of art, which at once prevents them from being mere copies of Nature, and
excuses whatever there is of Nature in them that is not beautiful or noble. If this touch is
wanting anywhere (and it is wanting very seldom), that, I take it, is the best, indeed the
only, sign that that passage is not Shakespere's,--that he had either made use of some other
man's work, or that some other man had made use of his. If such passages were of more frequent
occurrence, this argument might be called a circular one. But the proportion of such passages
as I at least should exclude is so small, and the difference between them and the rest is so
marked, that no improper begging of the question can be justly charged. The plays in the Globe
edition contain just a thousand closely-printed pages. I do not think that there are fifty
in all, perhaps not twenty--putting scraps and patches together--in which the Shakesperian
touch is wanting, and I do not think that that touch appears outside the covers of the volume
once in a thousand pages of all the rest of English literature. The heart and soul of all men being
one, this bitterness of His and Mine ceases. His is mine. I am my brother, and my brother is me. If
I feel overshadowed and outdone by great neighbors, I can yet love; I can still receive; and he
that loveth maketh his own the grandeur he loves. Thereby I make the discovery that my brother
is my guardian, acting for me with the friendliest designs, and the estate I so admired and envied is my
own. It is the nature of the soul to appropriate all things.

Jesus[142] and Shakespeare are fragments of the soul, and by love
I conquer and incorporate them in my own conscious domain.

His[143] virtue,--is not that mine? His wit,--if it cannot be made
mine, it is not wit.

Such, also, is the natural history of calamity. The changes which break up at short intervals the prosperity
of men are advertisements of a nature whose law is growth. Every soul is by this intrinsic
necessity quitting its whole system of things, its friends, and home, and laws, and faith, as
the shellfish crawls out of its beautiful but stony case, because it no longer admits of its growth,
and slowly forms a new house. In proportion to the vigor of the individual, these revolutions are frequent,
until in some happier mind they are incessant, and all worldly relations hang very loosely about him,
becoming, as it were, a transparent fluid membrane through which the living form is seen, and
not, as in most men, an indurated heterogeneous fabric of many dates, and of no settled character, in which
the man is imprisoned. Then there can be enlargement, and the man
of to-day scarcely recognizes the man of yesterday.

And such should be the outward biography of man in time, a putting
off of dead circumstances day by day, as he renews his raiment day
by day.

But to us, in our lapsed estate, resting, not advancing, resisting,
not coöperating with the divine expansion, this growth comes by shocks.

We

cannot part with our friend. We cannot let our angels go.

We do not see that they only go out, that archangels may come in.
We are idolaters of the old. We do not believe in the riches of the soul, in
its proper eternity and omnipresence. We do not believe there is any
force in to-day to rival or recreate that beautiful yesterday. We linger
in the ruins of the old tent, where once we had bread and shelter
and organs, nor believe that the spirit can feed, cover, and nerve
us again.

We cannot again find aught so dear, so sweet, so graceful. But we
sit and weep in vain.

The
voice of the Almighty saith, "Up and onward forevermore!" We cannot stay amid the ruins. Neither will
we rely on the new; and so we walk ever with reverted eyes, like
those monsters who look backwards.

And yet the compensations of calamity are made apparent to the understanding also, after long
intervals of time. A fever, a mutilation, a cruel disappointment, a loss of wealth, a loss of friends,
seems at the moment unpaid loss, and unpayable. But the sure years reveal the deep remedial force that underlies
all facts. The death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover, which seemed nothing but privation, somewhat
later assumes the aspect of a guide or genius; for it commonly operates revolutions in our way of life,
terminates an epoch of infancy or of youth which was waiting to be closed,
breaks up a wonted occupation, or a household, or style of living,
and allows the formation of new ones more friendly to the growth of
character.

It permits or constrains the formation of new acquaintances, and
the reception of new influences that prove of the first importance
to the next years; and the man or woman who would have remained a
sunny garden flower, with no room for its roots and too much sunshine
for its head, by the falling of the walls and the neglect of the gardener,
is made the banyan[144] of the forest, yielding shade and fruit to
wide neighborhoods of men.

SELF-RELIANCE

"Ne te quæsiveris extra."[145]

"Man is his own star; and the soul that can Render an honest and a
perfect man, Commands all light, all influence, all fate; Nothing
to him falls early or too late.

Our acts our angels are, or good or ill, Our fatal shadows that walk by us still."[146]

* * * * *

Cast the bantling on the rocks, Suckle him with the she-wolf's teat; Wintered with the hawk and
fox, Power and speed be hands and feet.[147]

I read the other day some verses written by an eminent painter which were original and not conventional.
The soul always hears an admonition in such lines, let the subject be what it may. The sentiment they
instill is of more value than any thought they may contain. To believe your own thought, to believe
that what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men,--that
is genius.[148] Speak your latent conviction, and it shall be the
universal sense;[149] for the inmost in due time becomes the outmost,--and
our first thought is rendered back to us by the trumpets of the Last
Judgment.

Familiar as the voice of the mind is to each, the highest merit we ascribe to Moses, Plato,[150] and
Milton[151] is, that they set at naught books and traditions, and spoke not what men, but what they thought.
A man should learn to detect and watch that gleam of light which flashes across his mind from within,
more than the luster of the firmament of bards and sages. Yet he dismisses without notice his
thought, because it is his. In every work of genius we recognize our own rejected thoughts:[152] they
come back to us with a certain alienated majesty. Great works of art have no more affecting lesson for
us than this. They teach us to abide by our spontaneous impression with good-humored inflexibility
then most when[153] the whole cry of voices is on the other side.

Else, to-morrow a stranger will say with masterly good sense precisely what we have thought and felt all
the time, and we shall be forced to take with shame our own opinion from another.

There is a time in every man's education when he arrives at the conviction
that envy is ignorance; that imitation is suicide;[154] that he must
take himself for better, for worse, as his portion; that though the
wide universe is full of good, no kernel of nourishing corn can come
to him but through his toil bestowed on that plot of ground which
is given to him to till.

The power which resides in him is new in nature, and none but he knows what
that is which he can do, nor does he know until he has tried.

Not for nothing one face, one character, one fact, makes much impression
on him, and another none.

This sculpture in the memory is not without preëstablished harmony.

The eye was placed where one ray should fall, that it might testify of that particular ray. We but half
express ourselves,[155] and are ashamed of that divine idea which each of us represents. It may
be safely trusted as proportionate and of good issues, so it be faithfully imparted, but God will
not have his work made manifest by cowards.

A
man is relieved and gay when he has put his heart into his work and
done his best; but what he has said or done otherwise shall give him
no peace.

It is a deliverance which does not deliver.

In the attempt his genius deserts him; no muse befriends; no invention,
no hope.

Trust thyself:[156] every heart vibrates to that iron string. Accept the place the divine providence
has found for you, the society of your contemporaries, the connection
of events. Great men have always done so, and confided themselves childlike
to the genius of their age, betraying their perception that the absolutely
trustworthy was seated at their heart, working through their hands,
predominating in all their being.

And we are now men, and must accept in the highest mind the same transcendent
destiny; and not minors and invalids in a protected corner, not cowards
fleeing before a revolution, but guides, redeemers, and benefactors,
obeying the Almighty effort, and advancing on Chaos[157] and the Dark.

    

What pretty oracles nature yields us on this text, in the face and
behavior of children, babes, and even brutes!

That divided and rebel mind, that distrust of a sentiment because our arithmetic
has computed the strength and means opposed to our purpose, these[158]
have not. Their mind being whole, their eye is as yet unconquered, and
when we look in their faces we are disconcerted.

    Infancy conforms to nobody: all conform to it, so that one babe commonly makes
four or five[159] out of the adults who prattle and play to it. So
God has armed youth and puberty and manhood no less with its own
piquancy and charm, and made it enviable and gracious and its claims
not to be put by, if it will stand by itself.

Do not think the youth has no force, because he cannot speak to you and
me.

Hark! in the next room his voice is sufficiently clear and emphatic.
It seems he knows how to speak to his contemporaries.

    Bashful or bold, then, he will know how to make us seniors very unnecessary.

The

nonchalance[160]
of boys who are sure of a dinner, and would disdain as much as a lord
to do or say aught to conciliate one, is the healthy attitude of human
nature.

A boy is in the parlor what the pit is in the playhouse;[161] independent,
irresponsible, looking out from his corner on such people and facts
as pass by, he tries and sentences them on their merits, in the swift,
summary way of boys, as good, bad, interesting, silly, eloquent,
troublesome.

He cumbers himself never about consequences about interests; he gives
an independent, genuine verdict.

You must court him: he does not court you. But the man is, as it
were, clapped into jail by his consciousness.

As
soon as he has once acted or spoken with éclat[162] he is a committed
person, watched by the sympathy or the hatred of hundreds, whose affections
must now enter into his account.

There is no Lethe[163] for this. Ah, that he could pass again into
his neutrality! Who[164] can thus avoid all pledges, and having observed,
observe again from the same unaffected, unbiased, unbribable, unaffrighted
innocence, must always be formidable.

He would utter opinions on all passing affairs, which being seen
to be not private, but necessary, would sink like darts into the ear
of men, and put them in fear.

These are the voices which we hear in solitude, but they grow faint
and inaudible as we enter into the world. Society everywhere is in
conspiracy against the manhood of every one of its members.

Society is a joint-stock company, in which the members agree, for
the better securing of his bread to each shareholder, to surrender
the liberty and culture of the eater.

The virtue
in most request is conformity. Self-reliance is its aversion. It loves not realities and creators, but
names and customs.

Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist.[165] He who would gather
immortal palms must not be hindered by the name of goodness, but must
explore if it be goodness.[166] Nothing is at last sacred but the
integrity of your own mind.

Absolve you to yourself, and you shall have the suffrage[167] of the world. I remember an
answer which when quite young I was prompted to make to a valued adviser, who was
wont to importune me with the dear old doctrines of the church.

On my saying,
What have I to do with the sacredness of traditions, if I live wholly
from within? my friend suggested: "But these impulses may be from
below, not from above."

I replied: "They do not seem to me to be such; but if I am the Devil's child, I will live then from the Devil." No law
can be sacred to me but that of my nature. Good and bad are but names very readily transferable
to that or this;[168] the only right is what is after my constitution, the only wrong what is against
it. A man is to carry himself in the presence of all opposition, as if everything were titular
and ephemeral but he. I am ashamed to think how easily we capitulate to badges and names, to large
societies and dead institutions. Every decent and well-spoken individual affects and sways me more than
is right. I ought to go upright and vital, and speak the rude truth in all ways. If malice and
vanity wear the coat of philanthropy, shall that pass? If an angry bigot assumes this bountiful cause of
Abolition, and comes to me with his last news from Barbadoes,[169] why should I not say to him: "Go love
thy infant; love thy wood-chopper: be good-natured and modest: have
that grace; and never varnish your hard, uncharitable ambition with
this incredible tenderness for black folk a thousand miles off.

Thy love afar is spite at home." Rough and graceless would be such greeting, but truth is handsomer
than the affectation of love. Your goodness must have some edge to it,--else it is none. The doctrine of
hatred must be preached as the counteraction of the doctrine of love
when that pules and whines. I shun father and mother and wife and brother, when
my genius calls me. I would write on the lintels of the door-post, Whim.[170]
I hope it is somewhat better than whim at last, but we cannot spend the
day in explanation. Expect me not to show cause why I seek or why
I exclude company.

Then, again, do not tell me, as a good man did to-day, of my obligation to put all poor men in good
situations. Are they my poor? I tell thee, thou foolish philanthropist,
that I grudge the dollar, the dime, the cent, I give to such men
as do not belong to me and to whom I do not belong.

There is a class of persons to whom by all spiritual affinity I am bought and sold; for them I will
go to prison, if need be; but your miscellaneous popular charities; the education at college of fools; the
building of meeting-houses to the vain end to which many now stand; alms to sots; and the thousand-fold
Relief Societies;--though I confess with shame I sometimes succumb and give the dollar, it is a wicked
dollar which by and by I shall have the manhood to withhold.

Virtues are, in the popular estimate, rather the exception than the
rule.

There is the man and his virtues. Men do what is called a good action, as some piece of courage
or charity, much as they would pay a fine in expiation of daily non-appearance
on parade. Their works are done as an apology or extenuation of their
living in the world,--as invalids and the insane pay a high board. Their virtues
are penances. I do not wish to expiate, but to live. My life is for
itself and not for a spectacle. I much prefer that it should be of
a lower strain, so it be genuine and equal, than that it should be
glittering and unsteady.

I wish it to be sound and sweet, and not to need diet and bleeding.[171]
I ask primary evidence that you are a man, and refuse this appeal
from the man to his actions.

I know
that for myself it makes no difference whether I do or forbear those
actions which are reckoned excellent. I cannot consent to pay for
a privilege where I have intrinsic right.

Few and mean as my gifts may be, I actually am, and do not need for my own assurance or the assurance
of my fellows any secondary testimony.

What I must do is all that concerns me, not what the people think. This
rule, equally arduous in actual and in intellectual life, may serve
for the whole distinction between greatness and meanness.

It is the harder, because you will always find those who think they know
what is your duty better than you know it. It is easy in the world
to live after the world's opinion; it is easy in solitude to live
after our own; but the great man is he who in the midst of the crowd
keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of solitude.[172]

The
objection to conforming to usages that have become dead to you is,
that it scatters your force.

It loses your time and blurs the impression of your character. If you
maintain a dead church, contribute to a dead Bible-society, vote with a great party
either for the government or against it, spread your table like base housekeepers,--under
all these screens I have difficulty to detect the precise[173] man you
are.

And, of course, so much force is withdrawn from your proper life. But do your work, and I shall
know you.[174] Do your work, and you shall reinforce yourself. A man must consider what a blindman's-buff
is this game of conformity. If I know your sect, I anticipate your argument. I hear a preacher announce
for his text and topic the expediency of one of the institutions
of his church.

Do I not know beforehand that not possibly can he say a new and spontaneous word? Do I not know that,
with[175] all this ostentation of examining the grounds of the institution,
he will do no such thing?

Do I not know that he is pledged to himself not to look but at one side,--the permitted side, not as a
man, but as a parish minister? He is a retained attorney, and these airs of the bench[176] are the emptiest
affectation. Well, most men have bound their eyes with one or another handkerchief,[177] and attached
themselves to some one of these communities of opinion.[178] This conformity makes them not false in a few particulars,
authors of a few lies, but false in all particulars.

Their every truth is not quite true. Their two is not the real two, their four not the real four; so that every
word they say chagrins us, and we know not where to begin to set them right. Meantime nature
is not slow to equip us in the prison-uniform of the party to which we adhere. We come to wear one cut
of face and figure, and acquire by degrees the gentlest asinine expression.
There is a mortifying experience in particular which does not fail
to wreak itself also in the general history; I mean "the foolish
face of praise," the forced smile which we put on in company where
we do not feel at ease in answer to conversation which does not interest
us.

The muscles, not spontaneously moved, but moved by a low usurping willfulness,
grow tight about the outline of the face with the most disagreeable
sensation.

For nonconformity the world whips you with its displeasure.[179] And
therefore a man must know how to estimate a sour face.

The bystanders look askance on him in the public street or in the friend's
parlor. If this aversation had its origin in contempt and resistance like
his own, he might well go home with a sad countenance; but the sour
faces of the multitude, like their sweet faces, have no deep cause,
but are put on and off as the wind blows and a newspaper directs.[180]
Yet is the discontent of the multitude more formidable than that of
the senate and the college.

    It is easy enough for a firm man who knows the world
           to brook the rage of the cultivated classes.
           Their rage is decorous and prudent,
           for they are timid as being very vulnerable themselves.
           But when to their feminine rage the indignation
           of the people is added, when the ignorant and
           the poor are aroused, when the unintelligent brute
           force that lies at the bottom of society is made to growl
           and mow, it
           
           
           needs the habit of magnanimity and religion to
           
           treat it godlike as a trifle of no concernment.
           
           The other terror[181] that scares us from self-trust
           
           is our consistency;[182]
           
           a reverence for our past act or word, because the
           eyes of others have no other data for computing
           our orbit[183] than our past acts, and we are loth to disappoint
them.
           
           

       

     
           
           
           
           But why should you keep your head
           
           over your shoulder? Why drag about this
           
           corpse of your
           
           memory, lest you contradict somewhat[184] you have stated in this or that
public place? Suppose you should contradict yourself; what then?

It seems
           to be a rule of wisdom never to rely on your
           memory alone, scarcely even in acts of pure memory,
           but to bring the past for judgment into
           the thousand-eyed present, and live ever in
           a new day. In your metaphysics you have denied
           personality to the Deity; yet when the devout
           
           motions of the soul come, yield to them heart and life,
           though they should clothe God with shape
           
           and color. Leave your theory, as Joseph his coat
           in the hand of the harlot, and flee.[185]
           
           A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored
           by little statesmen and philosophers and divines. With consistency a great
soul has simply nothing to do. He may as well concern himself with
the shadow on the wall. Speak what you think now in hard words, and
to-morrow speak what to-morrow thinks in hard words again, though
it contradict everything you said to-day.--"Ah, so you shall be sure
to be misunderstood."--Is it so bad, then, to be misunderstood?

Pythagoras[186] was misunderstood,
           and Socrates,[187] and Jesus, and Luther,[188] and Copernicus,[189]
           and Galileo,[190] and
           
           Newton,[191] and every pure and wise spirit that ever
           took flesh. To be great is to be misunderstood.

    

           I suppose no man can violate his nature.

All the sallies of his will are rounded in by the law of his being, as the inequalities
of Andes[192] and Himmaleh[193] are insignificant in the curve of
the sphere.

Nor does it matter how you gauge and try him.

    

                

           A character is like an acrostic or Alexandrian
           stanza;[194]--read it forward, backward,
           or across, it still spells the same thing.
           In this pleasing, contrite wood-life which
           God allows me, let me record day by day my honest thought without
prospect or retrospect, and, I cannot doubt, it will be found symmetrical,
though I mean it not, and see it not.

My
           book should smell of pines and resound with
           the hum of insects. The swallow over my window
           should interweave that thread or straw he carries in his bill into my web
also. We pass for what we are. Character teaches above our wills. Men
imagine that they communicate their virtue or vice only by overt actions,
and do not see that virtue or vice emit a breath every moment.

           
           
           
           There will be an agreement in whatever variety
           of actions, so they be each honest and
           natural in their hour. For of one will, the actions
           will be harmonious,
           
however unlike they seem. These varieties are lost sight of at a little
distance, at a little height of thought. One tendency unites them all.
The voyage of the best ship is a zigzag line of a hundred tacks.[195]
See the line from a sufficient distance, and it straightens itself
to the average tendency.

Your genuine action will explain itself, and will explain your other
genuine actions. Your conformity explains nothing. Act singly, and what
you have already done singly will justify you now.

Greatness appeals to the future.

If I can be firm enough to-day to do right, and scorn eyes,[196] I must
have done so much right before as to defend me now. Be it how it will, do
right now. Always scorn appearances, and you always may.

The force of
character is cumulative. All the foregone days of virtue work their
health into this. What makes the majesty of the heroes of the senate and
the field, which so fills the imagination?

The consciousness of a train of great days and victories behind. They shed
an united light on the advancing actor. He is attended as by a visible
escort of angels. That is it which throws thunder into Chatham's[197]
voice, and dignity into Washington's port, and America into Adams's[198]
eye.

Honor is venerable
to us because it is no ephemeris. It is always ancient virtue. We worship
it to-day because it is not of to-day. We love it and pay it homage, because
it is not a trap for our love and homage, but is self-dependent,
self-derived, and therefore of an old immaculate pedigree, even if
shown in a young person.

I hope in these days we have heard the last of conformity and consistency. Let the
words be gazetted and ridiculous henceforward. Instead of the gong
for dinner, let us hear a whistle from the Spartan[199] fife. Let us
never bow and apologize more. A great man is coming to eat at my house.
I do not wish to please him; I wish that he should wish to please me.
I will stand here for humanity, and though I would make it kind, I
would make it true. Let us affront and reprimand the smooth mediocrity and
squalid contentment of the times, and hurl in the face of custom, and
trade, and office, the fact which is the upshot of all history, that
there is a great responsible Thinker and Actor working wherever a man
works; that a true man belongs to no other time or place, but is the
center of things.


Of no two contemporary men of letters in England can it be said that they were, intellectually
speaking, so near akin as Ben Jonson and George Chapman. The translator of Homer was a good
deal older than Jonson, and exceedingly little is known of his life. He was pretty certainly
born near Hitchin in Hertfordshire, the striking situation of which points his reference to
it even in these railroad days. The date is uncertain--it may have been 1557, and was certainly
not later than 1559--so that he was the oldest of the later Elizabethan school who survived
into the Caroline period. He perhaps entered the University of Oxford in 1574. His first known
work, The Shadow of Night, dates from 1594; and a reference of Meres's shows that he was known
for tragedy four years later. In 1613 he, Jonson (a constant friend of his whose mutual fidelity
refutes of itself the silly calumnies as to Jonson's enviousness, for of Chapman only, among
his colleagues, was he likely to be jealous), and Marston were partners in the venture of Eastward
Ho! which, for some real or fancied slight on Scotland, exposed the authors to danger of the
law. He was certainly a protégé of Prince Henry, the English Marcellus, and he seems to have
received patronage from a much less blameless patron, Carr, Earl of Somerset. His literary
activity was continuous and equal, but it was in his later days that he attempted and won the
crown of the greatest of English translators. "Georgius Chapmannus, Homeri metaphrastes" the
posy of his portrait runs, and he himself seems to have quite sunk any expectation of fame
from his original work in the expectation of remembrance as a translator of the Prince of Poets.
Many other interesting traits suggest, rather than ascertain, themselves in reference to him,
such as his possible connection with the early despatch of English troupes of players to Germany,
and his adoption of contemporary French subjects for English tragedy. But of certain knowledge
of him we have very little. What is certain is that, like Drayton (also a friend of his), he
seems to have lived remote and afar from the miserable quarrels and jealousies of his time;
that, as has been already shown by dates, he was a kind of English Fontenelle in his overlapping
of both ends of the great school of English poets; and that absolutely no base personal gossip
tarnishes his poetical fame. The splendid sonnet of Keats testifies to the influence which
his work long had on those Englishmen who were unable to read Homer in the original. A fine
essay of Mr. Swinburne's has done, for the first time, justice to his general literary powers,
and a very ingenious and, among such hazardous things, unusually probable conjecture of Mr.
Minto's identifies him with the "rival poet" of Shakespere's Sonnets. But these are adventitious
claims to fame. What is not subject to such deduction is the assertion that Chapman was a great
Englishman who, while exemplifying the traditional claim of great Englishmen to originality,
independence, and versatility of work, escaped at once the English tendency to lack of scholarship,
and to ignorance of contemporary continental achievements, was entirely free from the fatal
Philistinism in taste and in politics, and in other matters, which has been the curse of our
race, was a Royalist, a lover, a scholar, and has left us at once one of the most voluminous
and peculiar collections of work that stand to the credit of any literary man of his country.
It may be that his memory has gained by escaping the danger of such revelations or scandals
as the Jonson confessions to Drummond, and that the lack of attraction to the ordinary reader
in his work has saved him from that comparison which (it has perhaps been urged ad nauseam)
is the bane of just literary judgment. To those who always strive to waive all such considerations,
these things will make but little difference.

The only complete edition of Chapman's works dates from our own days, and its three volumes
correspond to a real division of subject. Although, in common with all these writers, Chapman
has had much uncertain and some improbable work fathered on him, his certain dramas supply
one of the most interesting studies in our period. As usual with everyone except Shakespere
and (it is a fair reason for the relatively disproportionate estimate of these so long held)
Beaumont and Fletcher, they are extremely unequal. Not a certain work of Chapman is void of
interest. The famous Eastward Ho! (one of the liveliest comedies of the period dealing with
London life) was the work of three great writers, and it is not easy to distribute its collaboration.
That it is not swamped with "humours" may prove that Jonson's learned sock was put on by others.
That it is neither grossly indecent nor extravagantly sanguinary, shows that Marston had not
the chief hand in it, and so we are left to Chapman. What he could do is not shown in the list
of his own certain plays till All Fools. The Blind Beggar of Alexandria (1596?) and An Humorous
Day's Mirth show that singular promiscuousness--that heaping together of scenes without order
or connection--which we have noticed in the first dramatic period, not to mention that the
way in which the characters speak of themselves, not as "I" but by their names in the third
person, is also unmistakable. But All Fools is a much more noteworthy piece, and though Mr.
Swinburne may have praised it rather highly, it would certainly take place in a collection
of the score best comedies of the time not written by Shakespere. The Gentleman Usher and Monsieur
d'Olive belong to the same school of humorous, not too pedantic comedy, and then we come to
the strange series of Chapman's French tragedies, Bussy d'Ambois, The Revenge of Bussy d'Ambois,
Byron's Conspiracy, The Tragedy of Charles, Duke of Byron, and The Tragedy of Philip Chabot,
Admiral of France. These singular plays stand by themselves. Whether the strong influence which
Marlowe exercised on Chapman led the later poet (who it must be remembered was not the younger)
to continue The Massacre of Paris, or what other cause begat them, cannot now be asserted or
even guessed without lost labour. A famous criticism of Dryden's attests his attention to them,
but does not, perhaps, to those who have studied Dryden deeply, quite express the influence
which Chapman had on the leader of post-Restoration tragedy. As plays, the whole five are models
of what plays should not be; in parts, they are models of what plays should be. Then Chapman
returned to the humour-comedy and produced two capital specimens of it in May-Day and The Widow's
Tears. Alphonsus, Emperor of Germany, which contains long passages of German, and Revenge for
Honour, two tragedies which were not published till long after Chapman's death, are to my mind
very dubiously his. Mr. Swinburne, in dealing with them, availed himself of the hypothesis
of a mellowing, but at the same time weakening of power by age. It may be so, and I have not
the slightest intention of pronouncing decidedly on the subject. They bear to my mind much
more mark of the decadent period of Charles I., when the secret of blank verse was for a time
lost, and when even men who had lived in personal friendship with their great predecessors
lapsed into the slipshod stuff that we find in Davenant, in his followers, and among them even
in the earlier plays of Dryden. It is, of course, true that this loosening and slackening of
the standard betrays itself even before the death of Chapman, which happened in 1634. But I
cannot believe that the author of Bussy d'Ambois (where the verse is rude enough but never
lax) and the contemporary or elder of Shakespere, Marlowe, and all the great race, could ever
have been guilty of the slovenliness which, throughout, marks Revenge for Honour.

The second part of Chapman's work, his original verse, is much inferior in bulk and in interest
of matter to the first and third. Yet, is it not perhaps inferior to either in giving evidence
of the author's peculiarities; while the very best thing he ever wrote (a magnificent passage
in The Tears of Peace) is contained in it. Its component parts are, however, sufficiently odd.
It opens with a strange poem called The Shadow of Night, which Mr. Swinburne is not wrong in
classing among the obscurest works in English. The mischievous fashion of enigmatic writing,
already glanced at in the section on satire, was perhaps an offshoot of euphuism; and certainly
Chapman, who never exhibits much taint of euphuism proper, here out-Herods Herod and out-Tourneurs
Tourneur. It was followed by an equally singular attempt at the luscious school of which Venus
and Adonis is the most famous. Ovid's Banquet of Sense has received high praise from critics
whom I esteem. For my own part I should say that it is the most curious instance of a radically
unpassionate nature, trying to lash itself into passion, that our language contains. Then Chapman
tried an even bolder flight in the same dialect--the continuation of Marlowe's unfinished Hero
and Leander. In this attempt, either by sheer force of his sinewy athletics, or by some inspiration
derived from the "Dead Shepherd," his predecessor, he did not fail, curious as is the contrast
of the two parts. The Tears of Peace, which contains his finest work, is in honour of Prince
Henry--a worthy work on a worthy subject, which was followed up later by an epicedium on the
prince's lamented death. Besides some epigrams and sonnets, the chief other piece of this division
is the disastrous Andromeda Liberata, which unluckily celebrates the nuptials--stained with
murder, adultery, and crime of all sorts--of Frances Howard and Robert Carr. It is in Chapman's
most allusive and thorniest style, but is less interesting intrinsically than as having given
occasion to an indignant prose vindication by the poet, which, considering his self-evident
honesty, is the most valuable document in existence for explaining the apparently grovelling
panegyric of the sixteenth and seventeenth century. It makes clear (what indeed an intelligent
reader might gather for himself) that the traditional respect for rank and station, uniting
with the tendency to look for patterns and precedents in the classics for almost everything,
made of these panegyrics a kind of school exercise, in which the excellence of the subject
was taken for granted, and the utmost hyperbole of praise was only a "common form" of composition,
to which the poet imparted or added what grace of style or fancy he could, with hardly a notion
of his ascriptions being taken literally.

But if Chapman's dramas have been greatly undervalued, and if his original poems are an invaluable
help to the study of the time, there is no doubt that it is as a translator that he made and
kept the strongest hold on the English mind. He himself spoke of his Homeric translations (which
he began as early as 1598, doing also Hesiod, some Juvenal, and some minor fragments, Pseudo-Virgilian,
Petrarchian and others) as "the work that he was born to do." His version, with all its faults,
outlived the popularity even of Pope, was for more than two centuries the resort of all who,
unable to read Greek, wished to know what the Greek was, and, despite the finical scholarship
of the present day, is likely to survive all the attempts made with us. I speak with all humility,
but as having learnt Homer from Homer himself, and not from any translation, prose or verse.
I am perfectly aware of Chapman's outrageous liberties, of his occasional unfaithfulness (for
a libertine need not necessarily be unfaithful in translation), and of the condescension to
his own fancies and the fancies of his age, which obscures not more perhaps than some condescensions
which nearness and contemporary influences prevent some of us from seeing the character of
the original. But at the same time, either I have no skill in criticism, and have been reading
Greek for fifty years to none effect, or Chapman is far nearer Homer than any modern translator
in any modern language. He is nearer in the Iliad than in the Odyssey--an advantage resulting
from his choice of vehicle. In the Odyssey he chose the heroic couplet, which never can give
the rise and fall of the hexameter. In the Iliad, after some hesitation between the two (he
began as early as 1598), he preferred the fourteener, which, at its best, is the hexameter's
nearest substitute. With Chapman it is not always at its best--very far from it. If he never
quite relapses into the sheer doggerel of the First Period, he sometimes comes perilously near
to it. But he constantly lifts his wings and soars in a quite different measure which, when
he keeps it up for a little, gives a narrative vehicle unsurpassed, and hardly equalled, in
English poetry for variation of movement and steady forward flow combined. The one point in
which the Homeric hexameter is unmatched among metres is its combination of steady advance
with innumerable ripples and eddies in its course, and it is here that Chapman (though of course
not fully) can partly match it. It is, however, one of the testimonies to the supreme merit
of the Homeric poems that every age seems to try to imitate them in its own special mannerisms,
and that, consequently, no age is satisfied with the attempts of another. It is a second, that
those who know the original demur at all.

The characteristics of Chapman, then, are very much those of Jonson with a difference. Both
had the same incapacity of unlaboured and forceless art, the same insensibility to passion,
the same inability to rise above mere humours and contemporary oddities into the region of
universal poetry. Both had the same extensive learning, the same immense energy, the same (if
it must be said) arrogance and contempt of the vulgar. In casual strokes, though not in sustained
grasp, Chapman was Jonson's superior; but unlike Jonson he had no lyric gift, and unlike Jonson
he let his learning and his ambitious thought clog and obscure the flow of his English. Nor
does he show in any of his original work the creative force of his younger friend. With the
highest opinion reasonably possible of Chapman's dramas, we cannot imagine him for a moment
composing a Volpone or an Alchemist--even a Bartholomew Fair; while he was equally, or still
more, incapable of Jonson's triumphs in epigram and epitaph, in song and ode. A certain shapelessness
is characteristic of everything that Chapman did--an inability, as Mr. Swinburne (to whom every
one who now writes on Chapman must acknowledge indebtedness), has said, "to clear his mouth
of pebbles, and his brow of fog." His long literary life, which must have exceeded half a century,
and his great learning, forbid our setting this down as it may be set in the case of many of
his contemporaries, and especially in the case of those two to whom we are now coming, as due
to youth, to the imperfect state of surrounding culture, to want of time for perfecting his
work, and so forth. He is the "Bègue de Vilaines," the heroic Stammerer of English literature--a
man who evidently had some congenital defect which all his fire and force, all his care and
curiosity, could not overcome. Yet are his doings great, and it is at least probable that if
he had felt less difficulty in original work, he would not have been prompted to set about
and finish the noble work of translation which is among the best products of an unsatisfactory
kind, and which will outlive the cavils of generations of etymologists and aorist-grinders.
He has been so little read that four specimens of his different manners--the early "tenebrous"
style of The Shadow of Night, the famous passage from Bussy d'Ambois which excited Lamb's enthusiasm,
and a sample from both Iliad and Odyssey--may be given:

    "In this vast thicket (whose description's task
    The pens of fairies and of fiends would ask:
    So more than human-thoughted horrible)
    The souls of such as lived implausible,
    In happy empire of this goddess' glories,
    And scorned to crown her fanes with sacrifice,[35]
    Did ceaseless walk; exspiring fearful groans,
    Curses and threats for their confusions.
    Her darts, and arrows, some of them had slain:
    Others her dogs eat, painting her disdain,
    After she had transformed them into beasts:
    Others her monsters carried to their nests,
    Rent them in pieces, and their spirits sent
    To this blind shade, to wail their banishment.
    The huntsmen hearing (since they could not hear)
    Their hounds at fault, in eager chase drew near,
    Mounted on lions, unicorns, and boars,
    And saw their hounds lie licking of their sores
    Some yearning at the shroud, as if they chid
    Her stinging tongues, that did their chase forbid:
    By which they knew the game was that way gone.
    Then each man forced the beast he rode upon,
    T' assault the thicket; whose repulsive thorns
    So gall'd the lions, boars, and unicorns,
    Dragons and wolves, that half their courages
    Were spent in roars, and sounds of heaviness:
    Yet being the princeliest, and hardiest beasts,
    That gave chief fame to those Ortygian forests,
    And all their riders furious of their sport,
    A fresh assault they gave, in desperate sort:
    And with their falchions made their way in wounds,
    The thicket open'd, and let in the hounds."

[35] The rhyme, bad as it is, is not unprecedented.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Bu. "What dismal change is here; the good old Friar
          Is murther'd, being made known to serve my love;
          And now his restless spirit would forewarn me
          Of some plot dangerous and imminent.
          Note what he wants? He wants his upper weed,
          He wants his life and body; which of these
          Should be the want he means, and may supply me
          With any fit forewarning? This strange vision
          (Together with the dark prediction
          Used by the Prince of Darkness that was raised
          By this embodied shadow) stir my thoughts
          With reminiscion of the spirit's promise,
          Who told me, that by any invocation
          I should have power to raise him, though it wanted
          The powerful words and decent rites of art;
          Never had my set brain such need of spirit
          T' instruct and cheer it; now, then, I will claim
          Performance of his free and gentle vow
          T' appear in greater light and make more plain
          His rugged oracle. I long to know
          How my dear mistress fares, and be inform'd
          What hand she now holds on the troubled blood
          Of her incensed lord. Methought the spirit
          (When he had utter'd his perplex'd presage)
          Threw his changed countenance headlong into clouds,
          His forehead bent, as it would hide his face,
          He knock'd his chin against his darken'd breast,
          And struck a churlish silence through his powers.
          Terror of darkness! O, thou king of flames!
          That with thy music-footed horse dost strike
          The clear light out of crystal on dark earth,
          And hurl'st instructive fire about the world,
          Wake, wake, the drowsy and enchanted night
          That sleeps with dead eyes in this heavy riddle;
          Or thou great prince of shades where never sun
          Sticks his far darted beams, whose eyes are made
          To shine in darkness, and see ever best
          Where sense is blindest: open now the heart
          Of thy abashed oracle, that for fear
          Of some ill it includes, would fain lie hid,
          And rise thou with it in thy greater light."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "For Hector's glory still he stood, and ever went about
    To make him cast the fleet such fire, as never should go out;
    Heard Thetis' foul petition, and wished in any wise
    The splendour of the burning ships might satiate his eyes.[36]
    From him yet the repulse was then to be on Troy conferred,
    The honour of it given the Greeks; which thinking on, he stirr'd
    With such addition of his spirit, the spirit Hector bore
    To burn the fleet, that of itself was hot enough before.
    But now he fared like Mars himself, so brandishing his lance
    As, through the deep shades of a wood, a raging fire should glance,
    Held up to all eyes by a hill; about his lips a foam
    Stood as when th' ocean is enraged; his eyes were overcome
    With fervour and resembled flames, set off by his dark brows,
    And from his temples his bright helm abhorrèd lightnings throws;
    For Jove, from forth the sphere of stars, to his state put his own
    And all the blaze of both the hosts confined in him alone.
    And all this was, since after this he had not long to live,
    This lightning flew before his death, which Pallas was to give
    (A small time thence, and now prepared) beneath the violence
    Of great Pelides. In meantime, his present eminence
    Thought all things under it; and he, still where he saw the stands
    Of greatest strength and bravest arm'd, there he would prove his hands,
    Or no where; offering to break through, but that passed all his power
    Although his will were past all theirs, they stood him like a tower
    Conjoined so firm, that as a rock, exceeding high and great,
    And standing near the hoary sea, bears many a boisterous threat
    Of high-voiced winds and billows huge, belched on it by the storms;
    So stood the Greeks great Hector's charge, nor stirred their battellous
          forms."

[36] This line alone would suffice to exhibit Chapman's own splendour at his best.

       *       *       *       *       *

                "This the Goddess told,
    And then the morning in her throne of gold
    Surveyed the vast world; by whose orient light
    The nymph adorn'd me with attires as bright,
    Her own hands putting on both shirt and weed
    Robes fine, and curious, and upon my head
    An ornament that glittered like a flame;
    Girt me in gold; and forth betimes I came
    Amongst my soldiers, roused them all from sleep,
    And bade them now no more observance keep
    Of ease, and feast, but straight a shipboard fall,
    For now the Goddess had inform'd me all.
    Their noble spirits agreed; nor yet so clear
    Could I bring all off, but Elpenor there
    His heedless life left. He was youngest man
    Of all my company, and one that wan
    Least fame for arms, as little for his brain;
    Who (too much steep'd in wine and so made fain
    To get refreshing by the cool of sleep,
    Apart his fellows plung'd in vapours deep,
    And they as high in tumult of their way)
    Suddenly waked and (quite out of the stay
    A sober mind had given him) would descend
    A huge long ladder, forward, and an end
    Fell from the very roof, full pitching on
    The dearest joint his head was placed upon,
    Which quite dissolved, let loose his soul to hell."

With regard to Marston (of whose little-known personality something has been said in connection
with his satires) I find myself somewhat unable to agree with the generality of critics, who
seem to me to have been rather taken in by his blood-and-thunder work, his transpontine declamation
against tyrants, and his affectation of a gloomy or furious scorn against mankind. The uncouthness,
as well as the suspicion of insincerity, which we noted in his satirical work, extend, as it
seems to me, also to his dramas; and if we class him as a worker in horrors with Marlowe earlier,
and with Webster and Ford later, the chief result will be to show his extreme inferiority to
them. He is even below Tourneur in this respect, while, like Tourneur, he is exposed to the
charge of utterly neglecting congruity and proportion. With him we relapse not merely from
the luminous perfection of Shakespere, from the sane order of work which was continued through
Fletcher, and the best of Fletcher's followers, but from the more artificial unity of Jonson,
back into the chaotic extravagances of the First Period. Marston, like the rest, is fond of
laughing at Jeronimo, but his own tragic construction and some of his own tragic scenes are
hardly less bombastic, and scarcely at all less promiscuous than the tangled horrors of that
famous melodrama. Marston, it is true, has lucid intervals--even many of them. Hazlitt has
succeeded in quoting many beautiful passages, one of which was curiously echoed in the next
age by Nat. Lee, in whom, indeed, there was a strong vein of Elizabethan melodrama. The sarcasm
on philosophical study in What You Will is one of the very best things of its own kind in the
range of English drama,--light, sustained, not too long nor too short, in fact, thoroughly
"hit off."

    "Delight my spaniel slept, whilst I baused[37] leaves,
    Tossed o'er the dunces, pored on the old print
    Of titled words, and still my spaniel slept.
    Whilst I wasted lamp oil, bated my flesh,
    Shrunk up my veins, and still my spaniel slept,
    And still I held converse with Zabarell,
    Aquinas, Scotus, and the musty saws
    Of antique Donate: still my spaniel slept.
    Still on went I: first an sit anima,
    Then, an' 'twere mortal. O hold, hold!
    At that they are at brain buffets, fell by the ears,
    Amain [pell-mell] together--still my spaniel slept.
    Then whether 'twere corporeal, local, fixed,
    Ex traduce; but whether 't had free will
    Or no, hot philosophers
    Stood banding factions all so strongly propped,
    I staggered, knew not which was firmer part;
    But thought, quoted, read, observed and pried,
    Stuffed noting-books, and still my spaniel slept.
    At length he waked and yawned, and by yon sky
    For aught I know, he knew as much as I."

[37] Kissed.

There is real pathos in Antonio and Mellida, and real satire in Parasitaster and The Malcontent.
Hazlitt (who had a very high opinion of Marston) admits that the remarkable inequalities of
this last piece "seem to show want of interest in the subject." This is an odd explanation,
but I suspect it is really only an anticipation in more favourable words of my own theory,
that Marston's tragic and satiric moods were not really sincere; that he was a clever man who
found a fashion of satire and a fashion of blood-and-thunder tragedy prevailing, and threw
himself into both without much or any heart in the matter. This is supported by the curious
fact that almost all his plays (at least those extant) were produced within a very few years,
1602-1607, though he lived some thirty years after the latter date, and quite twenty after
his last dated appearances in literature, The Insatiate Countess, and Eastward Ho! That he
was an ill-tempered person with considerable talents, who succeeded, at any rate for a time,
in mistaking his ill-temper for sæva indignatio, and his talents for genius, is not, I think,
too harsh a description of Marston. In the hotbed of the literary influences of the time these
conditions of his produced some remarkable fruit. But when the late Professor Minto attributes
to him "amazing and almost Titanic energy," mentions "life" several times over as one of the
chief characteristics of his personages (I should say that they had as much life as violently-moved
marionettes), and discovers "amiable and admirable characters" among them, I am compelled not,
of course, to be positive that my own very different estimate is right, but to wonder at the
singularly different way in which the same things strike different persons, who are not as
a rule likely to look at them from very different points of view.

Marston's plays, however, are both powerful enough and famous enough to call for a somewhat
more detailed notice. Antonio and Mellida, the earliest and if not the best as a whole, that
which contains the finest scenes and fragments, is in two parts--the second being more properly
called The Revenge of Antonio. The revenge itself is of the exaggerated character which was
so popular with the Elizabethan dramatists, but in which (except in the famous Cornwall and
Gloucester scene in Lear) Shakespere never indulged after his earliest days. The wicked tyrant's
tongue is torn out, his murdered son's body is thrown down before him, and then the conspirators,
standing round, gibe, curse, and rant at him for a couple of pages before they plunge their
swords into his body. This goodly conclusion is led up to by a sufficient quantity of antecedent
and casual crimes, together with much not very excellent fooling by a court gull, Balurdo,
who might be compared with Shakespere's fools of the same kind, to the very great advantage
of those who do not appreciate the latter. The beautiful descriptive and reflective passages
which, in Lamb's Extracts, gave the play its reputation, chiefly occur towards the beginning,
and this is the best of them:--

    And. "Why man, I never was a Prince till now.
           'Tis not the bared pate, the bended knees,
           Gilt tipstaves, Tyrian purple, chairs of state,
           Troops of pied butterflies, that flutter still
           In greatness summer, that confirm a prince:
           'Tis not the unsavoury breath of multitudes,
           Shouting and clapping, with confused din;
           That makes a prince. No, Lucio, he's a king,
           A true right king, that dares do aught save wrong,
           Fears nothing mortal, but to be unjust,
           Who is not blown up with the flattering puffs
           Of spungy sycophants: who stands unmov'd
           Despite the jostling of opinion:
           Who can enjoy himself, maugre the throng
           That strive to press his quiet out of him:
           Who sits upon Jove's footstool as I do
           Adoring, not affecting majesty:
           Whose brow is wreathèd with the silver crown
           Of clear content: this, Lucio, is a king,
           And of this empire, every man's possessed
           That's worth his soul."

Sophonisba, which followed, is much less rambling, but as bloody and extravagant. The scene
where the witch Erichtho plays Succubus to Syphax, instead of the heroine, and in her form,
has touches which partly, but not wholly, redeem its extravagance, and the end is dignified
and good. What You Will, a comedy of intrigue, is necessarily free from Marston's worst faults,
and here the admirable passage quoted above occurs. But the main plot--which turns not only
on the courtship, by a mere fribble, of a lady whose husband is supposed to be dead, and who
has very complacently forgotten all about him, but on a ridiculous plot to foist a pretender
off as the dead husband itself--is simply absurd. The lack of probability, which is the curse
of the minor Elizabethan drama, hardly anywhere appears more glaringly. Parasitaster, or The
Fawn, a satirical comedy, is much better, but the jealous hatred of The Dutch Courtesan is
again not made probable. Then came Marston's completest work in drama, The Malcontent, an anticipation,
after Elizabethan fashion, of Le Misanthrope and The Plain Dealer. Though not free from Marston's
two chief vices of coarseness and exaggerated cynicism, it is a play of great merit, and much
the best thing he has done, though the reconciliation, at the end, of such a husband and such
a wife as Piero and Aurelia, between whom there is a chasm of adultery and murder, again lacks
verisimilitude. It is to be observed that both in The Fawn and The Malcontent there are disguised
dukes--a fact not testifying any very great originality, even in borrowing. Of Eastward Ho!
we have already spoken, and it is by no means certain that The Insatiate Countess is Marston's.
His reputation would not lose much were it not. A fabliau-like underplot of the machinations
of two light-o'-love citizens' wives against their husbands is not unamusing, but the main
story of the Countess Isabella, a modern Messalina (except that she adds cruelty to the vices
of Messalina) who alternately courts lovers and induces their successors to assassinate them,
is in the worst style of the whole time--the tragedy of lust that is not dignified by the slightest
passion, and of murder that is not excused by the slightest poetry of motive or treatment.
Though the writing is not of the lowest order, it might have been composed by any one of some
thirty or forty writers. It was actually attributed at the time to William Barksted, a minor
poet of some power, and I am inclined to think it not Marston's, though my own estimate of
him is, as will have been seen, not so high as some other estimates. It is because those estimates
appear to me unduly high that I have rather accentuated the expression of my own lower one.
For the last century, and perhaps longer, the language of hyperbole has been but too common
about our dramatists, and I have known more than one case in which the extravagant praise bestowed
upon them has, when students have come to the works themselves, had a very disastrous effect
of disappointment. It is, therefore, all the more necessary to be candid in criticism where
criticism seems to be required.

As to the last of our good company, there is fortunately very little risk of difference of
opinion. A hundred years ago Thomas Dekker was probably little more than a name to all but
professed students of Elizabethan literature, and he waited longer than any of his fellows
for due recognition by presentation of his work in a complete form. It was not until the year
1873 that his plays were collected; it was not till eleven years later that his prose works
had the same honour. Yet, since attention was directed to Dekker in any way, the best authorities
have been unanimous in his praise. Lamb's famous outburst of enthusiasm, that he had "poetry
enough for anything," has been soberly endorsed by two full generations of the best judges,
and whatever differences of detail there may be as to his work, it is becoming more and more
the received, and correctly-received opinion, that, as his collaborator Webster came nearest
to Shakespere in universalising certain types in the severer tragedy, so Dekker has the same
honour on the gently pathetic side. Yet this great honour is done to one of the most shadowy
personalities in literature. We have four goodly volumes of his plays and five of his other
works; yet of Thomas Dekker, the man, we know absolutely less than of any one of his shadowy
fellows. We do not know when he was born, when he died, what he did other than writing in the
certainly long space between the two unknown dates. In 1637 he was by his own words a man of
threescore, which, as it has been justly remarked, may mean anything between fifty-five and
seventy. He was in circumstances a complete contrast to his fellow-victim in Jonson's satire,
Marston. Marston was apparently a gentleman born and bred, well connected, well educated, possessed
of some property, able to make testamentary dispositions, and probably in the latter part of
his life, when Dekker was still toiling at journalism of various kinds, a beneficed clergyman
in country retirement. Dekker was, it is to be feared, what the arrogance of certain members
of the literary profession has called, and calls, a gutter-journalist--a man who had no regular
preparation for the literary career, and who never produced anything but hand-to-mouth work.
Jonson went so far as to say that he was a "rogue;" but Ben, though certainly not a rogue,
was himself not to be trusted when he spoke of people that he did not like; and if there was
any but innocent roguery in Dekker he has contrived to leave exactly the opposite impression
stamped on every piece of his work. And it is particularly interesting to note, that constantly
as he wrote in collaboration, one invariable tone, and that the same as is to be found in his
undoubtedly independent work, appears alike in plays signed with him by persons so different
as Middleton and Webster, as Chettle and Ford. When this is the case, the inference is certain,
according to the strictest rules of logic. We can define Dekker's idiosyncrasy almost more
certainly than if he had never written a line except under his own name. That idiosyncrasy
consists, first, of an exquisite lyrical faculty, which, in the songs given in all collections
of extracts, equals, or almost equals, that of Shakespere; secondly, of a faculty for poetical
comedy, for the comedy which transcends and plays with, rather than grasps and exposes, the
vices and follies of men; thirdly, for a touch of pathos again to be evened only to Shakespere's;
and lastly, for a knack of representing women's nature, for which, except in the master of
all, we may look in vain throughout the plentiful dramatic literature of the period, though
touches of it appear in Greene's Margaret of Fressingfield, in Heywood, in Middleton, and in
some of the anonymous plays which have been fathered indifferently, and with indifferent hopelessness
of identification, on some of the greatest of names of the period, on some of the meanest,
and on an equal number of those that are neither great nor mean.

Dekker's very interesting prose works we shall treat in the next chapter, together with the
other tracts into whose class they fall, and some of his plays may either go unnoticed, or,
with those of the dramatists who collaborated with him, and whose (notably in the case of The
Roaring Girl) they pretty evidently were more than his. His own characteristic pieces, or those
in which his touch shows most clearly, though they may not be his entirely, are The Shoemaker's
Holiday, Old Fortunatus, Satiromastix, Patient Grissil, The Honest Whore, The Whore of Babylon,
If it be not Good the Devil is in it, The Virgin Martyr, Match me in London, The Son's Darling,
and The Witch of Edmonton. In everyone of these the same characteristics appear, but the strangely
composite fashion of writing of the time makes them appear in differing measures. The Shoemaker's
Holiday is one of those innumerable and yet singular pieces in which the taste of the time
seems to have so much delighted, and which seem so odd to modern taste,--pieces in which a
plot or underplot, as the case may be, of the purest comedy of manners, a mere picture of the
life, generally the lower middle-class life of the time, is united with hardly a thought of
real dramatic conjunction to another plot of a romantic kind, in which noble and royal personages,
with, it may be, a dash of history, play their parts. The crowning instance of this is Middleton's
Mayor of Queenborough; but there are scores and hundreds of others, and Dekker specially affects
it. The Shoemaker's Holiday is principally distinguished by the directness and raciness of
its citizen sketches. Satiromastix (the second title of which is "The Untrussing of the Humorous
Poet") is Dekker's reply to The Poetaster, in which he endeavours to retort Jonson's own machinery
upon him. With his customary disregard of congruity, however, he has mixed up the personages
of Horace, Crispinus, Demetrius, and Tucca, not with a Roman setting, but with a purely romantic
story of William Rufus and Sir Walter Tyrrel, and the king's attempt upon the fidelity of Tyrrel's
bride. This incongruous mixture gives one of the most charming scenes of his pen, the apparent
poisoning of Celestina by her father to save her honour. But as Lamb himself candidly confessed,
the effect of this in the original is marred, if not ruined, by the farcical surroundings,
and the more farcical upshot of the scene itself,--the poisoning being, like Juliet's, a mere
trick, though very differently fortuned. In Patient Grissil the two exquisite songs, "Art thou
poor" and "Golden slumbers kiss thine eyes," and the sympathetic handling of Griselda's character
(the one of all others to appeal to Dekker) mark his work. In all the other plays the same
notes appear, and there is no doubt that Mr. Swinburne is wholly right in singling out from
The Witch of Edmonton the feminine characters of Susan, Winifred, and the witch herself, as
showing Dekker's unmatched command of the colours in which to paint womanhood. In the great
debate as to the authorship of The Virgin Martyr, everything is so much conjecture that it
is hard to pronounce authoritatively. Gifford's cool assumption that everything bad in the
play is Dekker's, and everything good Massinger's, will not hold for a moment; but, on the
other side, it must be remembered that since Lamb there has been a distinct tendency to depreciate
Massinger. All that can be said is, that the grace and tenderness of the Virgin's part are
much more in accordance with what is certainly Dekker's than with what is certainly Massinger's,
and that either was quite capable of the Hircius and Spungius passages which have excited so
much disgust and indignation--disgust and indignation which perhaps overlook the fact that
they were no doubt inserted with the express purpose of heightening, by however clumsily designed
a contrast, the virgin purity of Dorothea the saint.

It will be seen that I have reserved Old Fortunatus and The Honest Whore for separate notice.
They illustrate, respectively, the power which Dekker has in romantic poetry, and his command
of vivid, tender, and subtle portraiture in the characters, especially, of women. Both, and
especially the earlier play, exhibit also his rapid careless writing, and his ignorance of,
or indifference to, the construction of a clear and distinctly outlined plot. Old Fortunatus
tells the well-known story of the wishing cap and purse, with a kind of addition showing how
these fare in the hands of Fortunatus's sons, and with a wild intermixture (according to the
luckless habit above noted) of kings and lords, and pseudo-historical incidents. No example
of the kind is more chaotic in movement and action. But the interlude of Fortune with which
it is ushered in is conceived in the highest romantic spirit, and told in verse of wonderful
effectiveness, not to mention two beautiful songs; and throughout the play the allegorical
or supernatural passages show the same character. Nor are the more prosaic parts inferior,
as, for instance, the pretty dialogue of Orleans and Galloway, cited by Lamb, and the fine
passage where Andelocia says what he will do "to-morrow."

    Fort. "No more: curse on: your cries to me are music,
            And fill the sacred roundure of mine ears
            With tunes more sweet than moving of the spheres.
            Curse on: on our celestial brows do sit
            Unnumbered smiles, which then leap from their throne
            When they see peasants dance and monarchs groan.
            Behold you not this Globe, this golden bowl,
            This toy call'd world at our Imperial feet?
            This world is Fortune's ball wherewith she sports.
            Sometimes I strike it up into the air,
            And then create I Emperors and Kings.
            Sometimes I spurn it: at which spurn crawls out
            That wild beast multitude: curse on, you fools.
            'Tis I that tumble Princes from their thrones,
            And gild false brows with glittering diadems.
            'Tis I that tread on necks of conquerors,
            And when like semi-gods they have been drawn,
            In ivory chariots to the capitol,
            Circled about with wonder of all eyes
            The shouts of every tongue, love of all hearts
            Being swoll'n with their own greatness, I have prick'd
            The bladder of their pride, and made them die,
            As water bubbles, without memory.
            I thrust base cowards into honour's chair,
            Whilst the true spirited soldier stands by
            Bare headed, and all bare, whilst at his scars
            They scoff, that ne'er durst view the face of wars.
            I set an Idiot's cap on virtue's head,
            Turn learning out of doors, clothe wit in rags
            And paint ten thousand images of loam
            In gaudy silken colours: on the backs
            Of mules and asses I make asses ride
            Only for sport, to see the apish world
            Worship such beasts with sound idolatry.
            This Fortune does, and when this is done,
            She sits and smiles to hear some curse her name,
            And some with adoration crown her fame.

       *       *       *       *       *

     And. "To-morrow? ay to-morrow thou shalt buy them.
            To-morrow tell the Princess I will love her,
            To-morrow tell the King I'll banquet him,
            To-morrow, Shadow, will I give thee gold,
            To-morrow pride goes bare, and lust a-cold.
            To-morrow will the rich man feed the poor,
            And vice to-morrow virtue will adore.
            To-morrow beggars shall be crownèd kings.
            This no-time, morrow's time, no sweetness sings.
            I pray thee hence: bear that to Agripyne."

The whole is, as a whole, to the last degree crude and undigested, but the ill-matured power
of the writer is almost the more apparent.

The Honest Whore, in two parts, is, as far as general character goes, a mixed comedy of intrigue
and manners combining, or rather uniting (for there is little combination of them), four themes--first,
the love of Hippolito for the Princess Infelice, and his virtuous motions followed by relapse;
secondly, the conversion by him of the courtesan Bellafront, a damsel of good family, from
her evil ways, and her marriage to her first gallant, a hairbrained courtier named Matheo;
thirdly, Matheo's ill-treatment of Bellafront, her constancy and her rejection of the temptations
of Hippolito, who from apostle has turned seducer, with the humours of Orlando Friscobaldo,
Bellafront's father, who, feigning never to forgive her, watches over her in disguise, and
acts as guardian angel to her reckless and sometimes brutal husband; and lastly, the other
humours of a certain marvellously patient citizen who allows his wife to hector him, his customers
to bully and cheat him, and who pushes his eccentric and unmanly patience to the point of enduring
both madhouse and jail. Lamb, while ranking a single speech of Bellafront's very high, speaks
with rather oblique approval of the play, and Hazlitt, though enthusiastic for it, admires
chiefly old Friscobaldo and the ne'er-do-well Matheo. My own reason for preferring it to almost
all the non-tragical work of the time out of Shakespere, is the wonderful character of Bellafront,
both in her unreclaimed and her reclaimed condition. In both she is a very woman--not as conventional
satirists and conventional encomiasts praise or rail at women, but as women are. If her language
in her unregenerate days is sometimes coarser than is altogether pleasant, it does not disguise
her nature,--the very nature of such a woman misled by giddiness, by curiosity, by love of
pleasure, by love of admiration, but in no thorough sense depraved. Her selection of Matheo
not as the instrument of her being "made an honest woman," not apparently because she had any
love for him left, or had ever had much, but because he was her first seducer, is exactly what,
after a sudden convincing of sin, such a woman would have done; and if her patience under the
long trial of her husband's thoughtlessness and occasional brutality seem excessive, it will
only seem so to one who has been unlucky in his experience. Matheo indeed is a thorough good-for-nothing,
and the natural man longs that Bellafront might have been better parted; but Dekker was a very
moral person in his own way, and apparently he would not entirely let her--Imogen gone astray
as she is--off her penance.

CHAPTER VI

LATER ELIZABETHAN AND JACOBEAN PROSE

One name so far dominates the prose literature of the last years of Elizabeth, and that of
the whole reign of James, that it has probably alone secured attention in the general memory,
except such as may be given to the purple patches (of the true Tyrian dye, but not extremely
numerous) which decorate here and there the somewhat featureless expanse of Sir Walter Raleigh's
History of the World. That name, it is scarcely necessary to say, is the name of Francis Bacon.
Bacon's eventful life, his much debated character, his philosophical and scientific position,
are all matters beyond our subject. But as it is of the first importance in studying that subject
to keep dates and circumstances generally, if not minutely, in view, it may be well to give
a brief summary of his career. He was born in 1561, the son of Sir Nicholas Bacon, Lord Keeper;
he went very young to Cambridge, and though early put to the study of the law, discovered an
equally early bent in another direction. He was unfortunate in not obtaining the patronage
then necessary to all men not of independent fortune. Though Elizabeth was personally familiar
with him, she gave him nothing of importance--whether owing to the jealousy of his uncle and
cousin, Burleigh and Robert Cecil, is a point not quite certain. The patronage of Essex did
him very little good, and drew him into the worst action of his life. But after Elizabeth's
death, and when a man of middle age, he at last began to mount the ladder, and came with some
rapidity to the summit of his profession, being made Lord Chancellor, and created Baron Verulam
and Viscount St. Alban. The title Lord Bacon he never bore in strictness, but it has been consecrated
by the use of many generations, and it is perhaps pedantry to object to it. Entangled as a
courtier in the rising hatred of the Court felt by the popular party, exposed by his own carelessness,
if not by actual venality in office, to the attacks of his enemies, and weakly supported, if
supported at all, by the favourite Buckingham (who seems to have thought that Bacon took too
much upon himself in state affairs), he lost, in 1621, all his places and emoluments, and was
heavily fined. The retirement of his last few years produced much literary fruit, and he died
(his death being caused or hastened by an injudicious experiment) in 1626.

Great as is the place that Bacon occupies in English literature, he occupies it, as it were,
malgré lui. Unlike almost all the greatest men of his own and even of the preceding generation,
he seems to have thought little of the capacities, and less of the chances of the English language.
He held (and, unluckily for him, expressed his opinion in writing) that "these modern languages
will at one time or the other play the bankrupt with books," and even when he wrote in the
despised vernacular he took care to translate his work, or have it translated, into Latin in
order to forestall the oblivion he dreaded. Nor is this his only phrase of contempt towards
his mother-tongue--the tongue which in his own lifetime served as a vehicle to a literature
compared with which the whole literary achievement of Latin antiquity is but a neat school
exercise, and which in every point but accomplished precision of form may challenge comparison
with Greek itself. This insensibility of Bacon's is characteristic enough, and might, if this
were the place for any such subtlety, be connected with the other defects of his strangely
blended character--his pusillanimity, his lack of passion (let any one read the Essay on Love,
and remember that some persons, not always inmates of lunatic asylums, have held that Bacon
wrote the plays of Shakespere), his love of empty pomp and display, and so forth.

But the English language which he thus despised had a noble and worthy revenge on Bacon. Of
his Latin works hardly anything but the Novum Organum is now read even for scholastic purposes,
and it is not certain that, but for the saving influences of academical study and prescription,
even that might not slip out of the knowledge of all but specialists. But with the wider and
wider spread and study of English the Essays and The Advancement of Learning are read ever
more and more, and the only reason that The History of Henry VII., The New Atlantis, and the
Sylva Sylvarum do not receive equal attention, lies in the comparative obsoleteness of their
matter, combined with the fact that the matter is the chief thing on which attention is bestowed
in them. Even in the two works noted, the Essays and The Advancement, which can go both together
in a small volume, Bacon shows himself at his very greatest in all respects, and (ignorant
or careless as he was of the fact) as one of the greatest writers of English prose before the
accession of Charles I.

The characteristics of style in these two works are by no means the same; but between them
they represent fairly enough the characteristics of all Bacon's English prose. It might indeed
be desirable in studying it to add to them the Henry the Seventh, which is a model of clear
historical narration, not exactly picturesque, but never dull; and though not exactly erudite,
yet by no means wanting in erudition, and exhibiting conclusions which, after two centuries
and a half of record-grubbing, have not been seriously impugned or greatly altered by any modern
historian. In this book, which was written late, Bacon had, of course, the advantage of his
long previous training in the actual politics of a school not very greatly altered since the
time he was describing, but this does not diminish the credit due to him for formal excellence.

The Essays--which Bacon issued for the first time, to the number of ten, in 1597, when he was,
comparatively speaking, a young man, which he reissued largely augmented in 1612, and yet again
just before his death, in their final and fullest condition--are not so much in the modern
sense essays as collections of thoughts more or less connected. We have, indeed, the genesis
of them in the very interesting commonplace book called the Promus [butler or storekeeper]
of Elegancies, the publication of which, as a whole, was for some reason or other not undertaken
by Mr. Spedding, and is due to Mrs. Henry Pott. Here we have the quaint, but never merely quaint,
analogies, the apt quotations, the singular flashes of reflection and illustration, which characterise
Bacon, in their most unformed and new-born condition. In the Essays they are worked together,
but still sententiously, and evidently with no attempt at sustained and fluent connection of
style. That Montaigne must have had some influence on Bacon is, of course, certain; though
few things can be more unlike than the curt severity of the scheme of the English essays and
the interminable diffuseness of the French. Yet here and there are passages in Montaigne which
might almost be the work of a French Bacon, and in Bacon passages which might easily be the
work of an English Montaigne. In both there is the same odd mixture of dignity and familiarity--the
familiarity predominating in Montaigne, the dignity in Bacon--and in both there is the union
of a rich fancy and a profound interest in ethical questions, with a curious absence of passion
and enthusiasm--a touch, as it may almost be called, of Philistinism, which in Bacon's case
contrasts most strangely with his frequently gorgeous language, and the evident richness of
his imagination, or at least his fancy.

The scheme and manner of these essays naturally induced a sententious and almost undeveloped
manner of writing. An extraordinary number of separate phrases and sentences, which have become
the common property of all who use the language, and are probably most often used without any
clear idea of their author, may be disinterred from them, as well as many striking images and
pregnant thoughts, which have had less general currency. But the compression of them (which
is often so great that they might be printed sentence by sentence like verses of the Bible)
prevents the author from displaying his command of a consecutive, elaborated, and harmonised
style. What command he had of that style may be found, without looking far, in the Henry the
Seventh, in the Atlantis, and in various minor works, some originally written in Latin and
translated, such as the magnificent passage which Dean Church has selected as describing the
purpose and crown of the Baconian system. In such passages the purely oratorical faculty which
he undoubtedly had (though like all the earlier oratory of England, with rare exceptions, its
examples remain a mere tradition, and hardly even that) displays itself; and one cannot help
regretting that, instead of going into the law, where he never attained to much technical excellence,
and where his mere promotion was at first slow, and was no sooner quickened than it brought
him into difficulties and dangers, he had not sought the safer and calmer haven of the Church,
where he would have been more at leisure to "take all knowledge to be his province;" would
have been less tempted to engage in the treacherous, and to him always but half-congenial,
business of politics, and would have forestalled, and perhaps excelled, Jeremy Taylor as a
sacred orator. If Bacon be Jeremy's inferior in exuberant gorgeousness, he is very much his
superior in order and proportion, and quite his equal in sudden flashes of a quaint but illuminative
rhetoric. For after all that has been said of Bacon and his philosophy, he was a rhetorician
rather than a philosopher. Half the puzzlement which has arisen in the efforts to get something
exact out of the stately periods and splendid promises of the Novum Organum and its companions
has arisen from oversight of this eminently rhetorical character; and this character is the
chief property of his style. It may seem presumptuous to extend the charges of want of depth
which were formulated by good authorities in law and physics against Bacon in his own day,
yet he is everywhere "not deep." He is stimulating beyond the recorded power of any other man
except Socrates; he is inexhaustible in analogy and illustration, full of wise saws, and of
instances as well ancient as modern. But he is by no means an accurate expositor, still less
a powerful reasoner, and his style is exactly suited to his mental gifts; now luminously fluent,
now pregnantly brief; here just obscure enough to kindle the reader's desire of penetrating
the obscurity, there flashing with ornament which perhaps serves to conceal a flaw in the reasoning,
but which certainly serves to allure and retain the attention of the student. All these characteristics
are the characteristics rather of the great orator than of the great philosopher. His constant
practice in every kind of literary composition, and in the meditative thought which constant
literary composition perhaps sometimes tempts its practitioners to dispense with, enabled him
to write on a vast variety of subjects, and in many different styles. But of these it will
always be found that two were most familiar to him, the short sententious apothegm, parallel,
or image, which suggests and stimulates even when it does not instruct, and the half-hortatory
half-descriptive discours d'ouverture, where the writer is the unwearied panegyrist of promised
lands not perhaps to be identified with great ease on any chart.[38]

[38] Of Bacon in prose, as of Spenser, Shakespere, and Milton in verse, it does not seem necessary
to give extracts, and for the same reason.

A parallel in the Plutarchian manner between Bacon and Raleigh would in many ways be pleasant,
but only one point of it concerns us here,--that both had been happier and perhaps had done
greater things had they been simple men of letters. Unlike Bacon, who, though he wrote fair
verse, shows no poetical bent, Raleigh was homo utriusque linguæ, and his works in verse, unequal
as they are, occasionally touch the loftiest summits of poetry. It is very much the same in
his prose. His minor books, mostly written hurriedly, and for a purpose, have hardly any share
of the graces of style; and his masterpiece, the famous History of the World, is made up of
short passages of the most extraordinary beauty, and long stretches of monotonous narration
and digression, showing not much grace of style, and absolutely no sense of proportion or skill
in arrangement. The contrast is so strange that some have sought to see in the undoubted facts
that Raleigh, in his tedious prison labours, had assistants and helpers (Ben Jonson among others),
a reason for the superior excellence of such set pieces as the Preface, the Epilogue, and others,
which are scattered about the course of the work. But independently of the other fact that
excellence of the most diverse kind meets us at every turn, though it also deserts us at every
turn, in Raleigh's varied literary work, and that it would be absurd to attribute all these
passages to some "affable familiar ghost," there is the additional difficulty that in none
of his reported helpers' own work do the peculiar graces of the purple passages of the History
occur. The immortal descant on mortality with which the book closes, and which is one of the
highest achievements of English prose, is not in the least like Jonson, not in the least like
Selden, not in the least like any one of whose connection with Raleigh there is record. Donne
might have written it; but there is not the smallest reason for supposing that he did, and
many for being certain that he did not. Therefore, it is only fair to give Raleigh himself
the credit for this and all other passages of the kind. Their character and, at the same time,
their comparative rarity are both easily explicable. They are all obviously struck off in moments
of excitement--moments when the writer's variable and fanciful temperament was heated to flashing-point
and gave off almost spontaneously these lightnings of prose as it gave, on other occasions,
such lightnings of poetry as The Faërie Queene sonnet, as "the Lie," and as the other strange
jewels (cats' eyes and opals, rather than pearls or diamonds), which are strung along with
very many common pebbles on Raleigh's poetical necklace. In style they anticipate Browne (who
probably learnt not a little from them) more than any other writer; and they cannot fairly
be said to have been anticipated by any Englishman. The low and stately music of their cadences
is a thing, except in Browne, almost unique, and it is not easy to trace it to any peculiar
mannerism of vocabulary or of the arrangement of words. But Raleigh's usual style differs very
little from that of other men of his day, who kept clear at once of euphuism and burlesque.
Being chiefly narrative, it is rather plainer than Hooker, who has some few points of resemblance
with Raleigh, but considerably freer from the vices of desultoriness and awkward syntax, than
most writers of the day except Hooker. But its most interesting characteristic to the student
of literature must always be the way in which it leads up to, without in the least foretelling,
the bursts of eloquence already referred to. Even Milton's alternations of splendid imagery
with dull and scurrilous invective, are hardly so strange as Raleigh's changes from jog-trot
commonplace to almost inspired declamation, if only for the reason that they are much more
intelligible. It must also be mentioned that Raleigh, like Milton, seems to have had little
or no humour. 

My laundress could swear that I was in chambers the whole of the evening when the robbery was committed;
and though this was the only direct evidence in my favour, yet I assembled at least a dozen persons,
men of repute and station, as witnesses to my character.

     
     
     

The trial excited prodigious interest, but what was that interest to the agony
with which I regarded the issue! Should I be convicted, my mysterious
enemies would enjoy, in triumph, my disgrace and degradation, and
might probably proceed by the same diabolical contrivances to attempt
even my life.

     
     
The day came, and I was arraigned among a herd of common felons; but
the consciousness of my innocence, and the hope of establishing it,
supported my heart.

     

     
     

     
     
No sooner had I heard the witnesses for the prosecution, than that hope
died within me.

A number of persons deposed, that on the night in question they had
seen me in the gambling-house; but they were men of indifferent character,
and not personally acquainted with me. At last, with astonishment and horror
I saw my venerable friend, Mr. B----, put into the box, and heard him
swear in positive terms that he was present in the room, and saw
me at play.

My defence availed nothing. The wretched old woman, whom I produced,
as the court and jury believed, to establish my defence by perjury,
was immediately discredited, and the jury returned a verdict of guilty.

     
     
     I was sentenced to six months' imprisonment. My feelings I will not attempt to
describe.

     
     
     During my confinement
     
     I made the most energetic attempts to reconcile myself to my fatal destiny.
     I formed a plan for my future life, complete in every particular. My
     character being destroyed, and most of my friends alienated,
     
     I determined to convert my property into money, and to seek a refuge in the
     United States. At length the term of my imprisonment approached its close,
     and on the 30th of September, 1791, I was liberated--my flesh creeps as I
     name the day.
     
     
     I waited in the prison till it was dusk. Finding that I had the key of my chambers upon
     my person, I resolved, in the first instance, to visit once again
     the scene of my former tranquil studies. Before I reached the Temple the
     gates had been closed, and
     
the gatekeeper, as I entered, eyed me with an unpleasant curiosity.

I reached my chambers. There was still light sufficient to enable me to select some papers which
I particularly wished to secure. I entered the chambers and walked in to my sitting-room, but suddenly stopped on seeing
a figure reclining on the sofa. My library-table was before him, covered with law books. At first
I imagined that my laundress had permitted some stranger to occupy my rooms during my incarceration. As
I entered the chamber the figure rose, and with feelings of indescribable
horror I perceived the semblance of myself--

--"And my flesh's hair
upstood, 'Twas mine own similitude."

--I cannot relate what followed,
for my senses deserted me.

On
recovering, my mysterious visiter had departed without leaving the
slightest clue by which I might fathom the impenetrable secret of
my persecutions.

I have sometimes imagined that they arose from one of those wonderful
natural resemblances which in some instances appear to be well authenticated;
but, natural or supernatural, they changed the current of my life.

Unable to endure the disgrace of being pointed at as a convicted felon,
I converted my property into money, and, under another name, I now live respected
in a foreign land.--Ibid.

* * * * *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

* * * * *

"FASHIONABLE TALES."

Lord Normanby has
written one of the best, if not the best, of this class of works,
the tendency of which is in most instances of questionable character.
But they give a tone to the reading taste of the day, as the recent
circumstance of two of them forming the first subject of three literary
reviews will sufficiently attest.

The work to which we specially allude, is Matilda, a Tale of the Day, the noble author of which
has just produced another of the same stamp, entitled Yes and No, to whose sketches and portraits
we shall shortly introduce our readers.

It will be seen that his lordship is no mean artist, nor does he belong to the novel-making tribe,
whose hole-and-corner curiosity has made us as familiar with the Corso as we are with our own Bond-street.
But the following snatch from Yes and No proves that these smatterers of fashion--these clippers
of reputation--are encouraged by some portion of that class whose
vanities they affect to expose:--

SCENE--A "Hall" in the Country.

"It is always as well here to know who one's next neighbour is," continued Fitzalbert, "for this is
not one of those snug parties where one can do or say what one pleases without observation." "How
do you mean?" asked Germain.

"Why, Lady Boreton encourages these literary poachers on the manors,
or rather manners of high life; she gives a sort of right of free
chase to all cockney sportsmen to wing one's follies in a double-barrelled
duodecimo, or hunt one's eccentricities through a hot-pressed octavo.

Not that they are, generally speaking, very formidable shots--they often bring down a different
bird from the one they aimed at, and sometimes shut their eyes and blaze away at the whole covey;
which last is, after all, the best way. Their coming here to pick out individuals is needless trouble.
Do you know the modern recipe for a finished picture of fashionable life? Let a gentlemanly
man, with a gentlemanly style, take of foolscap paper a few quires;
stuff them well with high-sounding titles--dukes and duchesses, lords
and ladies, ad libitum.

Then open the peerage at random, pick a supposititious author out
of one page of it, and fix the imaginary characters upon some of the
rest; mix it all up with quantum suff. of puff, and the book is in
a second edition before ninety-nine readers out of a hundred have
found out the one is as little likely to have written, as the others
to have done what is attributed to them."

Again--here is a picture of the guests: "Captains that have been to the
North Pole; chemists who can extract ice from caloric; transatlantic
travellers and sedentary bookworms; some authors, who own to anonymous
publications they have never written; and others who are suspected of
those they deny; besides the usual quantum of young ladies and gentlemen,
who rest their claims to distinction upon the traditionary deeds of
their great grandfathers."

* * * * *

SOCIETY OF UNITED IRISHMEN.

At the head of the table, which occupied the centre of the apartment, and in an arm-chair raised by a few steps
from the floor, sat the president of the society of United Irishmen. He alone was covered, and though plainly
dressed, there was an air of high breeding and distinction about him; while in his bland smile were exhibited,
the open physiognomy of pleasantness, and love-winning mildness,
which still mark the descendants of the great Anglo-Norman Lords of
the Pale, the Lords of Ormond, Orrery, and Arran, the Mount Garrets,
and Kilkennys,--in former times, the great oligarchs of Ireland, and
in times more recent, the grace and ornament of the British court.

The president was the Honourable Simon Butler: beside him, on a lower
seat, sat the secretary.

His uncovered head, and unshaded temples received the full light of the suspended
lamp. It was one of those finely chiselled heads, which arrest the imagination,
and seem to bear incontrovertible evidence of the certainty of physiognomical
science.

A dress particularly studied, was singularly contrasted with the athletic figure and antique bearing of this
interesting looking person. For though unpowdered locks, and the partial uncovering of a muscular
neck, by the loose tie of the silk handkerchief had something of the simplicity of republicanism,
yet the fine diamond chat sparkled at the shirt breast, and the glittering of two watch-chains
(the foppery of the day), exhibited an aristocracy of toilet, which did not exactly assort with the
Back-lane graces.

The secretary of the United Irishmen, was Archibald Hamilton Rowan.

On the opposite side sat a small, well-formed, and animated person, who was talking with singular
vivacity of look and gesture, to one of extremely placid and even
formal appearance. The first was the gay, gallant, and patriotic founder
of the society, Theobald Wolfe Tone, the other was the celebrated
and clever Doctor Drennan, a skilful physician, and an elegant writer,
who might have passed in appearance, for the demure minister of some
remote village-congregation of the Scotch kirk.

A tail, elegant, and sentimental looking person sat near to them, in an attitude
of interested attention, listening to the speaker, to whom, it seemed,
he was about to reply.

It was Thomas Addas Emmet, the son of the state physician of Ireland--then
a young lawyer of great promise, and now the Attorney-General of New
York. The handsome and animated Dr. Mackenna, one of the most popular
writers of the day, and Oliver Bond, the representative of the most reputable
class of merchants, had grouped forward their intelligent heads; while
one who brought no personal beauty to the cause (that letter of recommendation
to all causes), James Napper Tandy, stood waiting with a packet of
letters, which he had received in his former quality of secretary
to the meeting.

While other leaders of the Union distinguished for their birth, talents,
or principles (and it is remarkable that they were all protestants), filled
up the seats near the head of the table; more mixed groups less distinguished
by the beau sang, which then came forth, in the fine forms of the
genuine Irish gentry of both sects, were congregated in the obscurity
of the bottom of the room--Lady Morgan's O'Briens and O'Flahertys.

* * * * *

STORY OF RICHARD PLANTAGENET, SON OF RICHARD III.

It was on this awful night (the night preceding the battle of Bosworth
Field), according to a letter which I have read from Dr. Thomas Brett
to Dr. William Warren, president of Trinity-hall, that the king took
his last farewell in his tent of Richard Plantagenet, his natural
son, who himself thus describes that interview:--"I was boarded with
a Latin schoolmaster, without knowing who my parents were, till I
was fifteen or sixteen years old; only a gentleman, who acquainted
me he was no relative of mine, came once a quarter and paid for my
board, and took care to see that I wanted for nothing.

     
     
     
     
     
     
     One day this gentleman took me and carried me to a great fine house, where
     I passed through several stately rooms, in one of which he left me, bidding
     me stay there.
     
     
     Then a man richly dressed, with a star and garter, came to me,
     asked me some questions, talked kindly to me, and gave me some
     money.
     
     Then the fore-mentioned gentleman returned, and conducted me
     back to my school.

"Some
     
     time after, the same gentleman came to me again with a horse and proper accoutrements,
     and told me I must take a journey with him into the country. We went into Leicestershire,
     and came to Bosworth Field, and I was carried to king Richard's
     tent. The king embraced me, and told me I was his son. 'But, child,'
     said he, 'to-morrow I must fight for my crown. And assure yourself
     if I lose that, I will lose my life too; but I hope to preserve both. Do you
     stand on yonder hill, where you may see the battle out of danger, and
     when I have gained the victory, come to me; I will then own you to be
     mine, and take care of you. But if I should be so unfortunate as to lose
     the battle, then shift as well as you can, and take care to let no one
     know that I am your father; for no mercy will be shown to any one so
     nearly related to me.' The
     
     king then presented me with a purse of gold, and giving me a farewell embrace,
     dismissed me from his tent. I followed the king's directions; and when
I saw the battle lost and the king killed, I hastened back to London,
sold my horse and fine clothes, and the better to conceal myself
from all suspicion of being son to a king, and that I might have
the means to live by my honest labour, I put myself apprentice to
a bricklayer.

But having a competent skill in the Latin tongue, I was unwilling to lose it; and having an inclination
also to reading, and no delight in the conversation of those I am obliged to work with, I generally spend
all the time I have to spare in reading by myself."

The letter says, "When Sir Thomas Moyle built Eastwell House, near
London, about the year, 1544, he observed his chief bricklayer, whenever
he left off work, retired with a book.

Sir Thomas had curiosity to know what book the man read, but was some time before he could discover it; he
still putting the book up if any one came toward him. However, at last Sir Thomas surprised him,
and snatched the book from him, and looking into it found it to be Latin. He then examined him,
and finding he pretty well understood that language, he inquired how he
came by his learning.

Hereupon the man told him, as he had beer, a good master to him, he would venture to trust him with
a secret he had never before revealed to any one. He then related the above story. Sir Thomas said,
'You are now old, and almost past your labour; I will give you the running of my kitchen as long
as you live.' He answered, 'Sir, you have a numerous family; I have been used to live retired,
give me leave to build a house of one room for myself in such a field,
and there, with your good leave, I will live and die.' Sir Thomas
granted his request, he built his house, and there continued to his
death.

Richard Plantagenet was buried the 22nd day of December, anno ut supra
ex registro de Eastwell sub 1550.

     This is all
     
     the register mentions
     
     
     of him, so that we cannot say whether he was buried in the church or
     church-yard; nor is there now any other memorial of him except the
     tradition in the family, and some little marks where his house stood.
     This story my late Lord Heneage, earl of Winchelsea, told me in the year
     1720." Thus lived and died,
     
     in low and poor
     
     obscurity, the only remaining
     
     son of Richard III!

Tale
     
     of a Modern Genius.
     
     
     
     * * * * *
     
     
     
     FINE ARTS.
     
     
     * * * * *
     
     ART OF MOSAIC.
     
     

     At Rome are many minor fine arts practised, which are wholly unknown in England.
     The most remarkable
     
     of them is the Mosaic Manufactory, carried on at the cost of government:
and its fruits are theirs.

       The workmen are constantly occupied in copying paintings for altarpieces,
though the works of the first masters are fast mouldering away on the
walls of forgotten churches. They will soon be lost forever; it is yet
possible to render them imperishable by means of Mosaic copies; and
why is it not done?

     
     
     The French, at Milan, set an example of this, by copying, in mosaic, the Last
     Supper of Leonardo da Vinci; but it was their plan to do much for
     
     Milan, and nothing for Rome; and the invaluable frescos of Michael Angelo,
     Raphael, Domenichino, and Guido, were left to perish.
     
     
It takes about seven or eight years to finish a mosaic copy of a painting
of the ordinary historical size, two men being constantly employed.

     
     
     It generally costs from eight to ten thousand crowns, but the time and expense are
     of course regulated by the intricacy of the
     
     subject and quantity of work. Raphael's Transfiguration, cost about
12,000 crowns, and the labour of nine years, ten men constantly working
at it. The late works, are, however, of very inferior execution.

     
     
     
     
     
The slab upon which the mosaic is made, is generally of Travertine, (or
Tiburtine) stones, connected together by iron cramps.
     

     Upon the surface of this a mastic or cementing paste, is gradually spread,
     as the progress of the work makes it wanted,
     
     which forms the adhesive ground, or bed, on which the mosaic is laid.
     This mastic is composed of fine
     
     
     lime from burnt
     
     
     marble, and finely powdered
     
     Travertine stone, mixed to the consistence of a paste, with strong linseed
     oil. Into this paste are stuck the smalts, of which the mosaic picture is formed.
     They are a mixed species of opaque vitrified glass, partaking of
     the mixed nature of stone and glass, and composed of a variety of
     minerals and materials,
     
     coloured for the most part, with different metallic oxydes.
     

     
     
     
     Of these no less than 1,700 different shades are in use; they are manufactured
     in Rome in the form of long, slender rods like wires, of different
     degrees of thickness,
     
     and are cut into pieces of the requisite sizes, from the smallest
pin point to an inch. When the picture is completely finished, and
the cement thoroughly dried, it is highly polished.

Mosaic, though an ancient art, is not merely a revived, but an improved
one; for the Romans only used coloured marbles, or natural stones
in its composition, which admitted of comparatively little variety;
but the invention of smalts has given it a far wider range, and made
the imitation of painting far closer.

The mosaic work at Florence is totally different to this, being merely inlaying
in pietre dure, or natural precious stones, of every variety, which
forms beautiful, and very costly imitations of shells, flowers, figures,
&c. but bears no similitude to painting.

Besides this government establishment at Rome, there are hundreds of
artists, or artisans, who carry on the manufactory of mosaics on
a small scale.

Snuff-boxes, rings, necklaces, brooches,
earrings, &c. are made in immense quantity; and since the English flocked
in such numbers to Rome, all the streets leading to the Piazza di
Spagna are lined with the shops of these Musaicisti, &c.

Oriental
shells are made at Rome into beautiful cameos, by the white outer
surface being cut away upon the deeper coloured internal part, forming
figures in minute bassi relievi.

The subjects are chiefly taken from ancient gems, and sometimes from
sculpture and painting.

The shells used for this purpose are chiefly brought from the Levant; and
these shell cameos make remarkably beautiful ornaments.

Hundreds of artists also find support at Rome, in making casts, sulphurs,
&c. from ancient gems and medals, and in selling or fabricating antiques.

Marble and stone-cutting are also beautifully executed both at Rome and Florence--Abridged,
(but interspersed) from "Rome in the 19th Century."

* * * * *

THE GATHERER.

"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Wotton.

* * * * *

TO ****

Moria pur
quando vuol non è bisogna mutar ni faccia ni voci per esser un Angelo.--The words
addressed by Lord Herbert of Cherbury, to the beautiful Nun at Murano.
(See his Life.)

Translation.

Die when you will, you need not wear At heaven's Court, a form more
fair, Than beauty here on earth has giv'n, Keep but the lovely looks
we see--The voice we hear--and you will be An angel ready made for
heaven.

* * * * *

A CARD

Left
at the Queen's house during the King's illness in March, 1801.

"Captain Blake of the Grenadiers, (George 1st.), was in the regiment
of Colonel Murray at the battle of Preston Pans, in the year 1745.

He was left
among the dead in the field of action, with no less than eleven wounds,
one so capital as to carry away three inches of his skull. Has been preserved
fifty-six years to relate the event, and enabled by gracious protection,
to make his personal inquiry after his majesty."

* * * * *

MARGARET NICHOLSON.

The following is the original, epistle of this famous lunatic
to the matron of Bedlam; No other proof is necessary of her insanity:--

Madam,--I've
recollected perhaps 'tis necessary to acquaint you upon what account I continue
here yet, maim, after making you privy to my great concerns, madam
I only wait for alteration of the globe which belongs to this house,
maim and if the time is almost expired I wish to know it maim.

Tho' I am not unhealthy, yet I am very weak, know maim therefore I hope
it won't be long maim.

I am, madam, your most obedient,

Wednesday. M. NICHOLSON.

* * * * *

LADY ARCHER, Formerly
Miss West, lived to a good age--a proof that cosmetics are not so
fatal as has been supposed. Nature had given her a fine aquiline nose,
like, the princesses of the house of Austria, and she did not fail to give
herself a complexion. She resembled a fine old wainscotted painting with
the face and features shining through a thick incrustation of copal
varnish.

Her ladyship was for many years the wonder of the fashionable world,
envied by all the ladies that frequented the court. She had a splendid house
in Portland-place, with et caetera equal in brilliancy and beauty
to, or rather surpassing those of any of her contemporaries. Magnificent
appendages were a sort of scenery. She gloried in milk-white horses
to her carriage--the coachman and footman in grand shewy liveries--the
carriage lined with a silk calculated to exhibit the complexion, &c.
&c.

I recollect, however, to have seen the late Mrs. Robinson go
far beyond all this in the rich exuberance of her genius; a yellow
lining to her landau, with a black footman, to contrast with her beautiful
countenance and fascinating figure, and thus render both more lovely.
Lady Archer's house at Barnes Elms Terrace, had an elegance of ornaments
and drapery to strike the senses, and yet powerfully addressed to
the imagination. She could give an insinuating interest to the scenes
about her; which other eyes were viewing. Her kitchen garden and pleasure
ground of five acres--the Thames running in front as if appertaining
to the grounds--the apartments most tastefully decorated in the Chinese
style--a fine conservatory opening, into the principal apartment with
grapes, slow peaches, &c. at the end a magnificent sofa, with a superb
curtain all displayed with a peculiar grace and to the greatest advantage.
 Greene and Lodge stand apart from their fellows in this respect, that their work is,
in some respects at any rate, much more like literature and less like journalism, though by
an odd and apparently perverse chance, this difference has rather hurt than saved it in the
estimation of posterity. For the kind of literature which both wrote in this way has gone out
of fashion, and its purely literary graces are barely sufficient to save it from the point
of view of form; while the bitter personalities of Nash, and the quaint adaptations of bygone
satire to contemporary London life in which Dekker excelled, have a certain lasting interest
of matter. On the other hand, the two companions of Marlowe have the advantage (which they
little anticipated, and would perhaps less have relished) of surviving as illustrations of
Shakespere, of the Shakescene who, decking himself out in their feathers, has by that act rescued
Pandosto and Euphues' Golden Legacy from oblivion by associating them with the immortality
of As You Like It and The Winter's Tale.

Owing to the different forms in which this fleeting and unequal work has been reprinted, it
is not very easy to decide off-hand on the relative bulk of the authors' works. But the palm
in this respect must be divided between Robert Greene and Nicholas Breton, the former of whom
fills eleven volumes of loosely-printed crown octavo, and the latter (in prose only) a thick
quarto of very small and closely-printed double columns. Greene, who began his work early under
the immediate inspiration first of his travels and then of Lyly's Euphues, started, as early
as 1583, with Mamillia, a Looking-Glass for the Ladies of England, which, both in general character
and in peculiarities of style, is an obvious copy of Euphues. The Mirror of Modesty is more
of a lay sermon, based on the story of Susanna. The Tritameron of Love is a dialogue without
action, but Arbasto, or the Anatomie of Fortune returns to the novel form, as does The Card
of Fancy. Planetomachia is a collection of stories, illustrating the popular astrological notions,
with an introduction on astrology generally. Penelope's Web is another collection of stories,
but The Spanish Masquerado is one of the most interesting of the series. Written just at the
time of the Armada, it is pure journalism--a livre de circonstance composed to catch the popular
temper with aid of a certain actual knowledge, and a fair amount of reading. Then Greene returned
to euphuism in Menaphon, and in Euphues, his Censure to Philautus; nor are Perimedes the Blacksmith
and Tully's Love much out of the same line. The Royal Exchange again deviates, being a very
quaint collection, quaintly arranged, of moral maxims, apophthegms, short stories, etc., for
the use of the citizens. Next, the author began the curious series, at first perhaps not very
sincere, but certainly becoming so at last, of half-personal reminiscences and regrets, less
pointed and well arranged than Villon's, but remarkably similar. The first and longest of these
was Greene's Never too Late, with its second part Francesco's Fortunes. Greene's Metamorphosis
is Euphuist once more, and Greene's Mourning Garment and Greene's Farewell to Folly are the
same, with a touch of personality. Then he diverged into the still more curious series on "conny-catching"--rooking,
gulling, cheating, as we should call it. There are five or six of these tracts, and though
there is not a little bookmaking in them, they are unquestionably full of instruction as to
the ways of the time. Philomela returns once more to euphuism, but Greene is soon back again
with A Quip for an Upstart Courtier, a piece of social satire, flying rather higher than his
previous attempts. The zigzag is kept up in Orpharion, the last printed (at least in the only
edition now known) of the author's works during his lifetime. Not till after his death did
the best known and most personal of all his works appear, the famous Groat's Worth of Wit Bought
with a Million of Repentance, in which the "Shakescene" passage and the exhortation to his
friends to repentance occur. Two more tracts in something the same style--Greene's Repentance
and Greene's Vision--followed. Their genuineness has been questioned, but seems to be fairly
certain.

This full list--to which must be added the already mentioned Pandosto, the Triumph of Time,
or Dorastus and Fawnia, and the translated Debate between Folly and Love--of a certainly not
scanty life-work (Greene died when he was quite a young man, and wrote plays besides) has been
given, because it is not only the earliest, but perhaps the most characteristic of the whole.
Despite the apparently unsuitable forms, it is evident that the writer is striving, without
knowing it, at what we call journalism. But fashion and the absence of models cramp and distort
his work. Its main features are to be found in the personal and satirical pieces, in the vivid
and direct humanity of some touches in the euphuist tract-romances, in the delightful snatches
of verse which intersperse and relieve the heterogeneous erudition, the clumsy dialogue, and
the rococo style. The two following extracts give, the first a specimen of Greene's ornate
and Euphuist style from Orpharion, the second a passage from his autobiographical or semi-autobiographical
confessions in the Groat's Worth:--

     "I am Lydia that renowned Princess, whose never matched beauty
     seemed like the gorgeous pomp of Phoebus, too bright for the day:
     rung so strongly out of the trump of Fame as it filled every ear
     with wonder: Daughter to Astolpho, the King of Lydia: who thought
     himself not so fortunate for his diadem, sith other kings could
     boast of crowns, nor for his great possessions, although endued
     with large territories, as happy that he had a daughter whose
     excellency in favour stained Venus, whose austere chastity set
     Diana to silence with a blush. Know whatsoever thou art that
     standest attentive to my tale, that the ruddiest rose in all
     Damasco, the whitest lilies in the creeks of Danuby, might not if
     they had united their native colours, but have bashed at the
     vermilion stain, flourish'd upon the pure crystal of my face: the
     Marguerites of the western Indies, counted more bright and rich
     than that which Cleopatra quaffed to Anthony, the coral highest
     in his pride upon the Afric shores, might well be graced to
     resemble my teeth and lips, but never honoured to overreach my
     pureness. Remaining thus the mirror of the world, and nature's
     strangest miracle, there arrived in our Court a Thracian knight,
     of personage tall, proportioned in most exquisite form, his face
     but too fair for his qualities, for he was a brave and a resolute
     soldier. This cavalier coming amongst divers others to see the
     royalty of the state of Lydia, no sooner had a glance of my
     beauty, but he set down his staff, resolving either to perish in
     so sweet a labyrinth, or in time happily to stumble out with
     Theseus. He had not stayed long in my father's court, but he
     shewed such knightly deeds of chivalry amongst the nobility,
     lightened with the extraordinary sparks of a courageous mind,
     that not only he was liked and loved of all the chief peers of
     the realms, but the report of his valour coming to my father's
     ears, he was highly honoured of him, and placed in short time as
     General of his warlike forces by land. Resting in this estimation
     with the king, preferment was no means to quiet his mind, for
     love had wounded so deep, as honour by no means might remedy,
     that as the elephants can hardly be haled from the sight of the
     waste, or the roe buck from gazing at red cloth, so there was no
     object that could so much allure the wavering eyes of this
     Thracian called Acestes, as the surpassing beauty of the Princess
     Lydia, yea, so deeply he doted, that as the Chameleon gorgeth
     herself with gazing into the air, so he fed his fancy with
     staring on the heavenly face of his Goddess, so long dallying in
     the flame, that he scorched his wings and in time consumed his
     whole body. Being thus passionate, having none so familiar as he
     durst make his confidant he fell thus to debate with himself."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "On the other side of the hedge sat one that heard his sorrow,
     who getting over, came towards him, and brake off his passion.
     When he approached, he saluted Roberto in this sort: Gentleman,
     quoth he (for so you seem) I have by chance heard you discourse
     some part of your grief; which appeareth to be more than you will
     discover, or I can conceit. But if you vouchsafe such simple
     comfort as my ability will yield, assure yourself, that I will
     endeavour to do the best, that either may procure your profit, or
     bring you pleasure: the rather, for that I suppose you are a
     scholar, and pity it is men of learning should live in lack.

     "Roberto wondering to hear such good words, for that this iron
     age affords few that esteem of virtue; returned him thankful
     gratulations and (urged by necessity) uttered his present grief,
     beseeching his advice how he might be employed. 'Why, easily,'
     quoth he, 'and greatly to your benefit: for men of my profession
     get by scholars their whole living.' 'What is your profession?'
     said Roberto. 'Truly, sir,' said he, 'I am a player.' 'A player!'
     quoth Roberto. 'I took you rather for a gentleman of great
     living, for if by outward habit men should be censured, I tell
     you, you would be taken for a substantial man.' 'So am I, where I
     dwell' (quoth the player) 'reputed able, at my proper cost, to
     build a windmill. What though the world once went hard with me,
     when I was fain to carry my playing fardel a foot-back; Tempora
     mutantur, I know you know the meaning of it better than I, but I
     thus construe it; it is otherwise now; for my very share in
     playing apparel will not be sold for two hundred pounds.' 'Truly'
     (said Roberto) 'it is strange that you should so prosper in that
     vain practise, for that it seems to me your voice is nothing
     gracious.' 'Nay, then,' said the player, 'I mislike your
     judgment: why, I am as famous for Delphrigas, and the King of
     Fairies, as ever was any of my time. The twelve labours of
     Hercules have I terribly thundered on the stage, and placed three
     scenes of the devil on the highway to heaven.' 'Have ye so?'
     (said Roberto) 'then I pray you, pardon me.' 'Nay more' (quoth
     the player) 'I can serve to make a pretty speech, for I was a
     country author, passing at a moral, for it was I that penn'd the
     moral of man's wit, the Dialogue of Dives, and for seven years'
     space was absolute interpreter of the puppets. But now my
     Almanach is out of date.

    The people make no estimation
    Of morals teaching education.

     Was not this pretty for a plain rhyme extempore? if ye will ye
     shall have more.' 'Nay, it is enough,' said Roberto, 'but how
     mean you to use me?' 'Why, sir, in making plays,' said the other,
     'for which you shall be well paid, if you will take the pains.'"

These same characteristics, though without the prevailing and in part obviously sincere melancholy
which marks Greene's regrets, also distinguish Lodge's prose work to such an extent that remarks
on the two might sometimes be made simply interchangeable. But fortune was kinder to Lodge
than to his friend and collaborator. Nor does he seem to have had any occasion to "tread the
burning marl" in company with conny-catchers and their associates. Lodge began with critical
and polemical work--an academic if not very urbane reply to Stephen Gosson's School of Abuse;
but in the Alarum against Usurers, which resembles and even preceded Greene's similar work,
he took to the satirical-story-form. Indeed, the connection between Lodge and Greene was so
close, and the difficulty of ascertaining the exact dates of their compositions is so great,
that it is impossible to be sure which was the precise forerunner. Certainly if Lodge set Greene
an example in the Alarum against Usurers, he followed Greene's lead in Forbonius and Prisceria
some years afterwards, having written it on shipboard in a venture against the Spaniards. Lodge
produced much the most famous book of the euphuist school, next to Euphues itself, as well
as the best known of this pamphlet series, in Rosalynde or Euphues' Golden Legacy, from which
Shakespere took the story of As You Like It, and of which an example follows:--

     "'Ah Phoebe,' quoth he, 'whereof art thou made, that thou
     regardest not thy malady? Am I so hateful an object, that thine
     eyes condemn me for an abject? or so base, that thy desires
     cannot stoop so low as to lend me a gracious look? My passions
     are many, my loves more, my thoughts loyalty, and my fancy faith:
     all devoted in humble devoir to the service of Phoebe; and shall
     I reap no reward for such fealties? The swain's daily labours is
     quit with the evening's hire, the ploughman's toil is eased with
     the hope of corn, what the ox sweats out at the plough he
     fatteneth at the crib: but unfortunate Montanus[39] hath no salve
     for his sorrows, nor any hope of recompense for the hazard of his
     perplexed passions. If Phoebe, time may plead the proof of my
     truth, twice seven winters have I loved fair Phoebe: if constancy
     be a cause to further my suit, Montanus' thoughts have been
     sealed in the sweet of Phoebe's excellence, as far from change as
     she from love: if outward passions may discover inward
     affections, the furrows in my face may discover the sorrows of my
     heart, and the map of my looks the grief of my mind. Thou seest
     (Phoebe) the tears of despair have made my cheeks full of
     wrinkles, and my scalding sighs have made the air echo her pity
     conceived in my plaints; Philomel hearing my passions, hath left
     her mournful tunes to listen to the discourse of miseries. I have
     portrayed in every tree the beauty of my mistress, and the
     despair of my loves. What is it in the woods cannot witness my
     woes? and who is it would not pity my plaints? only Phoebe. And
     why? Because I am Montanus, and she Phoebe: I a worthless swain,
     and she the most excellent of all fairies. Beautiful Phoebe! oh
     might I say pitiful, then happy were I though I tasted but one
     minute of that good hap. Measure Montanus, not by his fortunes,
     but by his loves, and balance not his wealth but his desires, and
     lend but one gracious look to cure a heap of disquieted cares: if
     not, ah if Phoebe cannot love, let a storm of frowns end the
     discontent of my thoughts, and so let me perish in my desires,
     because they are above my deserts: only at my death this favour
     cannot be denied me, that all shall say Montanus died for love of
     hard hearted Phoebe.' At these words she filled her face full of
     frowns and made him this short and sharp reply.

     "'Importunate shepherd, whose loves are lawless because restless:
     are thy passions so extreme, that thou canst not conceal them
     with patience? or art thou so folly-sick, that thou must needs be
     fancy-sick, and in thy affection tied to such an exigent as none
     serves but Phoebe? Well, sir, if your market can be made nowhere
     else, home again, for your mart is at the fairest. Phoebe is no
     lettuce for your lips, and her grapes hang so high, that gaze at
     them you may, but touch them you cannot. Yet Montanus I speak not
     this in pride, but in disdain: not that I scorn thee, but that I
     hate love: for I count it as great honour to triumph over fancy
     as over fortune. Rest thee content therefore Montanus, cease from
     thy loves, and bridle thy looks, quench the sparkles before they
     grow to a farther flame; for in loving me, thou shalt but live by
     loss, and what thou utterest in words are all written in the
     wind. Wert thou (Montanus) as fair as Paris, as hardy as Hector,
     as constant as Troilus, as loving as Leander, Phoebe could not
     love, because she cannot love at all: and therefore if thou
     pursue me with Phoebus, I must flie with Daphne.'"

[39] The Silvius, it may be just necessary to observe, of As You Like It.

This book seems to have been very successful, and Lodge began to write pamphlets vigorously,
sometimes taking up the social satire, sometimes the moral treatise, sometimes (and then most
happily) the euphuist romance, salted with charming poems. His last prose work in this kind
(he wrote other things later) was the pretty and prettily-named Margarite of America, in 1596.

The names of Nash and Harvey are intertwined even more closely than those of Greene and Lodge;
but the conjunction is not a grasp of friendship but a grip of hatred--a wrestle, not an embrace.
The fact of the quarrel has attracted rather disproportionate attention from the days of Isaac
Disraeli onwards; and its original cause is still extremely obscure and very unimportant. By
some it is connected, causally as well as accidentally, with the Martin Marprelate business;
by some with the fact that Harvey belonged to the inner Sidneian clique, Nash to the outer
ring of professional journalists and Bohemians. It at any rate produced some remarkable varieties
of the pamphlet, and demonstrated the keen interest which the world takes in the proceedings
of any couple of literary men who choose to abuse and befoul one another. Harvey, though no
mean scholar, was in mere writing no match for Nash; and his chief answer to the latter, Pierce's
Supererogation, is about as rambling, incoherent, and ineffective a combination of pedantry
and insolence as need be wished for. It has some not uninteresting, though usually very obscure,
hints on literary matters. Besides this, Harvey wrote letters to Spenser with their well-known
criticism and recommendation of classical forms, and Foure Letters Touching Robert Greene and
Others: with the Trimming of Thomas Nash, Gentleman. A sample of him, not in his abusive-dull,
but in his scholarly-dull manner, may be given:--

     "Mine own rules and precepts of art, I believe will fall out not
     greatly repugnant, though peradventure somewhat different: and
     yet I am not so resolute, but I can be content to reserve the
     copying out and publishing thereof, until I have a little better
     consulted with my pillow, and taken some further advice of Madame
     Sperienza. In the mean time, take this for a general caveat, and
     say I have revealed one great mystery unto you: I am of opinion,
     there is no one more regular and justifiable direction, either
     for the assured and infallible certainty of our English
     artificial prosody particularly, or generally to bring our
     language into art, and to frame a grammar or rhetoric thereof;
     than first of all universally to agree upon one and the same
     orthography in all points conformable and proportionate to our
     common natural prosody: whether Sir Thomas Smithies in that
     respect be the most perfit, as surely it must needs be very good;
     or else some other of profounder learning and longer experience,
     than Sir Thomas was, shewing by necessary demonstration, wherein
     he is defective, will undertake shortly to supply his wants and
     make him more absolute. Myself dare not hope to hop after him,
     till I see something or other, to or fro, publicly and
     authentically established, as it were by a general council, or
     Act of Parliament: and then peradventure, standing upon firmer
     ground, for company sake, I may adventure to do as others do.
     Interim, credit me, I dare give no precepts, nor set down any
     certain general art: and yet see my boldness, I am not greatly
     squeamish of my Particular Examples, whereas he that can but
     reasonably skill of the one, will give easily a shrewd guess at
     the other: considering that the one fetcheth his original and
     offspring from the other. In which respect, to say troth, we
     beginners have the start, and advantage of our followers, who are
     to frame and conform both their examples and precepts, according
     to precedent which they have of us: as no doubt Homer or some
     other in Greek, and Ennius, or I know not who else in Latin, did
     prejudice, and overrule those that followed them, as well for
     the quantities of syllables, as number of feet, and the like:
     their only examples going for current payment, and standing
     instead of laws, and rules with the posterity."

In Harvey, more perhaps than anywhere else in prose, appears the abusive exaggeration, not
humorous or Rabelaisian, but simply rancorous and dull, which mars so much Elizabethan work.
In order not to fall into the same error ourselves, we must abstain from repeating the very
strong language which has sometimes been applied to his treatment of dead men, and such dead
men as Greene and Marlowe, for apparently no other fault than their being friends of his enemy
Nash. It is sufficient to say that Harvey had all the worst traits of "donnishness," without
having apparently any notion of that dignity which sometimes half excuses the don. He was emphatically
of Mr. Carlyle's "acrid-quack" genus.

Thomas Nash will himself hardly escape the charge of acridity, but only injustice or want of
discernment will call him a quack. Unlike Harvey, but like Greene and Lodge, he was a verse
as well as a prose writer. But his verse is in comparison unimportant. Nor was he tempted to
intersperse specimens of it in his prose work. The absolutely best part of that work--the Anti-Martinist
pamphlets to be noticed presently--is only attributed to him conjecturally, though the grounds
of attribution are very strong. But his characteristics are fully evident in his undoubted
productions. The first of these in pamphlet form is the very odd thing called Pierce Penniless
[the name by which Nash became known], his Supplication to the Devil. It is a kind of rambling
condemnation of luxury, for the most part delivered in the form of burlesque exhortation, which
the mediæval sermons joyeux had made familiar in all European countries. Probably some allusions
in this refer to Harvey, whose pragmatical pedantry may have in many ways annoyed Nash, a Cambridge
man like himself. At any rate the two soon plunged into a regular battle, the documents of
which on Nash's side are, first a prognostication, something in the style of Rabelais, then
a formal confutation of the Four Letters, and then the famous lampoon entitled Have with you
to Saffron Walden [Harvey's birthplace], of which here is a specimen:--

     "His father he undid to furnish him to the Court once more, where
     presenting himself in all the colours of the rainbow, and a pair
     of moustaches like a black horse tail tied up in a knot, with two
     tufts sticking out on each side, he was asked by no mean
     personage, Unde hæc insania? whence proceedeth this folly or
     madness? and he replied with that weather-beaten piece of a verse
     out of the Grammar, Semel insanivimus omnes, once in our days
     there is none of us but have played the idiots; and so was he
     counted and bade stand by for a Nodgscomb. He that most
     patronized him, prying more searchingly into him, and finding
     that he was more meet to make sport with than any way deeply to
     be employed, with fair words shook him off, and told him he was
     fitter for the University, than for the Court or his turn, and so
     bade God prosper his studies, and sent for another Secretary to
     Oxford.

     "Readers, be merry; for in me there shall want nothing I can do
     to make you merry. You see I have brought the Doctor out of
     request at Court, and it shall cost me a fall, but I will get him
     hooted out of the University too, ere I give him over. What will
     you give me when I bring him upon the Stage in one of the
     principalest Colleges in Cambridge? Lay any wager with me, and I
     will; or if you lay no wager at all, I'll fetch him aloft in
     Pedantius, that exquisite Comedy in Trinity College; where under
     the chief part, from which it took his name, as namely the
     concise and firking finicaldo fine School master, he was full
     drawn and delineated from the sole of his foot to the crown of
     his head. The just manner of his phrase in his Orations and
     Disputations they stuffed his mouth with, and no Buffianism
     throughout his whole books, but they bolstered out his part with;
     as those ragged remnants in his four familiar epistles 'twixt him
     and Senior Immerito, raptim scripta, noste manum et stylum,
     with innumerable other of his rabble-routs: and scoffing his
     Musarum Lachrymæ with Flebo amorem meum etiam musarum
     lachrymis; which, to give it his due, was a more collachrymate
     wretched Treatise than my Piers Penniless, being the pitifulest
     pangs that ever any man's Muse breathed forth. I leave out half;
     not the carrying up of his gown, his nice gait on his pantoffles,
     or the affected accent of his speech, but they personated. And if
     I should reveal all, I think they borrowed his gown to play the
     part in, the more to flout him. Let him deny this (and not damn
     himself) for his life if he can. Let him deny that there was a
     Shew made at Clare Hall of him and his two brothers, called,

        "Tarra, rantantara turba tumultuosa Trigonum
        Tri-Harveyorum Tri-harmonia

     Let him deny that there was another Shew made of the little
     Minnow his brother, Dodrans Dick, at Peter-house called,

        "Duns furens. Dick Harvey in a frensy.

     Whereupon Dick came and broke the College glass windows; and
     Doctor Perne (being then either for himself or deputy
     Vice-Chancellor) caused him to be fetched in, and set in the
     Stocks till the Shew was ended, and a great part of the night
     after."

The Terrors of the Night, a discourse of apparitions, for once, among these oddly-named pieces,
tells a plain story. Its successor, Christ's Tears over Jerusalem, Nash's longest book, is
one of those rather enigmatical expressions of repentance for loose life which were so common
at the time, and which, according to the charity of the reader, may be attributed to real feeling,
to a temporary access of Katzen-jammer, or to downright hypocrisy, bent only on manufacturing
profitable "copy," and varying its style to catch different tastes. The most unfavourable hypothesis
is probably unjust, and a certain tone of sincerity also runs through the next book, The Unfortunate
Traveller, in which Nash, like many others, inveighs against the practice of sending young
Englishmen to be corrupted abroad. It is noteworthy that this (the place of which in the history
of the novel has been rather exaggerated) is the oldest authority for the romance of Surrey
and Geraldine; but it is uncertain whether this was pure invention on Nash's part or not. Nash's
Lenten Stuff is very interesting, being a panegyric on Great Yarmouth and its famous staple
commodity (though Nash was actually born at Lowestoft).

In Nash's work we find a style both of treatment and language entirely different from anything
of Greene's or Lodge's. He has no euphuism, his forte being either extravagant burlesque (in
which the influence of Rabelais is pretty directly perceptible, while he himself acknowledges
indebtedness to some other sources, such as Bullen or Bullein, a dialogue writer of the preceding
generation), or else personal attack, boisterous and unscrupulous, but often most vigorous
and effective. Diffuseness and want of keeping to the point too frequently mar Nash's work;
but when he shakes himself free from them, and goes straight for his enemy or his subject,
he is a singularly forcible writer. In his case more than in any of the others, the journalist
born out of due time is perceptible. He had perhaps not much original message for the world.
But he had eminently the trick both of damaging controversial argument made light to catch
the popular taste, and of easy discussion or narrative. The chief defects of his work would
probably have disappeared of themselves if he had had to write not pamphlets, but articles.
He did, however, what he could; and he is worthy of a place in the history of literature if
only for the sake of Have with you to Saffron Walden--the best example of its own kind to be
found before the end of the seventeenth century, if not the beginning of the eighteenth.

Thomas Dekker was much less of a born prose writer than his half-namesake, Nash. His best work,
unlike Nash's, was done in verse, and, while he was far Nash's superior, not merely in poetical
expression but in creative grasp of character, he was entirely destitute of Nash's incisive
and direct faculty of invective. Nevertheless his work, too, is memorable among the prose work
of the time, and for special reasons. His first pamphlet (according to the peculiarity already
noted in Rowlands's case) is not prose at all, but verse--yet not the verse of which Dekker
had real mastery, being a very lamentable ballad of the destruction of Jerusalem, entitled
Canaan's Calamity (1598). The next, The Wonderful Year, is the account of London in plague
time, and has at least the interest of being comparable with, and perhaps that of having to
some extent inspired, Defoe's famous performance. Then, and of the same date, follows a very
curious piece, the foreign origin of which has not been so generally noticed as that of Dekker's
most famous prose production. The Bachelor's Banquet is in effect only a free rendering of
the immortal fifteenth century satire, assigned on no very solid evidence to Antoine de la
Salle, the Quinze Joyes de Mariage, the resemblance being kept down to the recurrence at the
end of each section of the same phrase, "in Lob's pound," which reproduces the less grotesque
"dans la nasse" of the original. But here, as later, the skill with which Dekker adapts and
brings in telling circumstances appropriate to his own day deserves every acknowledgment. Dekker's
Dreame is chiefly verse and chiefly pious; and then at a date somewhat later than that of our
present period, but connected with it by the fact of authorship, begins a very interesting
series of pieces, more vivid if somewhat less well written than Greene's, and connected with
his "conny-catching" course. The Bellman of London, Lanthorn and Candlelight, A Strange Horse-Race,
The Seven Deadly Sins of London, News from Hell, The Double P.P., and The Gull's Hornbook,
are all pamphlets of this class; the chief interest resting in News from Hell (which, according
to the author's scheme, connects itself with Nash's Pierce Penniless, and is the devil's answer
thereto) and The Gull's Hornbook (1609). This last, the best known of Dekker's work, is an
Englishing of the no less famous Grobianus of Frederick Dedekind, and the same skill of adaptation
which was noticed in The Bachelor's Banquet is observable here. The spirit of these works seems
to have been so popular that Dekker kept it up in The Dead Term [long vacation], Work for Armourers
(which, however, is less particular and connects itself with Nash's sententious work), The
Raven's Almanack, and A Rod for Runaways (1625). The Four Birds of Noah's Ark, which Dr. Grosart
prints last, is of a totally different character, being purely a book of piety. It is thus
inferior in interest to the series dealing with the low life of London, which contains most
curious studies of the ancient order of ragamuffins (as a modern satirist has pleasantly called
them), and bears altogether marks of greater sincerity than the parallel studies of other writers.
For about Dekker, hack and penny-a-liner as he undoubtedly was, there was a simplicity, a truth
to nature, and at the same time a faculty of dramatic presentation in which Greene, Lodge,
and Nash were wholly wanting; and his prose pamphlets smack of these good gifts in their measure
as much as The Honest Whore. Indeed, on the whole, he seems to be the most trustworthy of these
chroniclers of the English picaroons; and one feels disposed to believe that if the things
which he tells did not actually happen, something very like them was probably happening every
day in London during the time of "Eliza and our James." For the time of Eliza and our James
was by no means a wholly heroic period, and it only loses, not gains, by the fiction that every
man of letters was a Spenser and every man of affairs a Sidney or even a Raleigh. Extracts
from The Seven Deadly Sins and The Gull's Hornbook may be given:--

     "O Candle-light! and art thou one of the cursed crew? hast thou
     been set at the table of Princes and Noblemen? have all sorts of
     people done reverence unto thee, and stood bare so soon as ever
     they have seen thee? have thieves, traitors, and murderers been
     afraid to come in thy presence, because they knew thee just, and
     that thou wouldest discover them? And art thou now a harbourer of
     all kinds of vices? nay, dost thou play the capital Vice thyself?
     Hast thou had so many learned Lectures read before thee, and is
     the light of thy understanding now clean put out, and have so
     many profound scholars profited by thee? hast thou done such good
     to Universities, been such a guide to the lame, and seen the
     doing of so many good works, yet dost thou now look dimly, and
     with a dull eye, upon all goodness? What comfort have sick men
     taken (in weary and irksome nights) but only in thee? thou hast
     been their physician and apothecary, and when the relish of
     nothing could please them, the very shadow of thee hath been to
     them a restorative consolation. The nurse hath stilled her
     wayward infant, shewing it but to thee: What gladness hast thou
     put into mariners' bosoms when thou hast met them on the sea!
     What joy into the faint and benighted traveller when he has met
     thee on the land! How many poor handicraftsmen by thee have
     earned the best part of their living! And art thou now become a
     companion for drunkards, for leachers, and for prodigals? Art
     thou turned reprobate? thou wilt burn for it in hell. And so
     odious is this thy apostasy, and hiding thyself from the light of
     the truth, that at thy death and going out of the world, even
     they that love thee best will tread thee under their feet: yea, I
     that have thus played the herald, and proclaimed thy good parts,
     will now play the crier and call thee into open court, to arraign
     thee for thy misdemeanours."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "For do but consider what an excellent thing sleep is: it is so
     inestimable a jewel that, if a tyrant would give his crown for an
     hour's slumber, it cannot be bought: of so beautiful a shape is
     it, that though a man lie with an Empress, his heart cannot be at
     quiet till he leaves her embracements to be at rest with the
     other: yea, so greatly indebted are we to this kinsman of death,
     that we owe the better tributary, half of our life to him: and
     there is good cause why we should do so: for sleep is that golden
     chain that ties health and our bodies together. Who complains of
     want? of wounds? of cares? of great men's oppressions? of
     captivity? whilst he sleepeth? Beggars in their beds take as much
     pleasure as kings: can we therefore surfeit on this delicate
     Ambrosia? can we drink too much of that whereof to taste too
     little tumbles us into a churchyard, and to use it but
     indifferently throws us into Bedlam? No, no, look upon Endymion,
     the moon's minion, who slept three score and fifteen years, and
     was not a hair the worse for it. Can lying abed till noon (being
     not the three score and fifteenth thousand part of his nap) be
     hurtful?

     "Besides, by the opinion of all philosophers and physicians, it
     is not good to trust the air with our bodies till the sun with
     his flame-coloured wings hath fanned away the misty smoke of the
     morning, and refined that thick tobacco-breath which the
     rheumatic night throws abroad of purpose to put out the eye of
     the element: which work questionless cannot be perfectly finished
     till the sun's car-horses stand prancing on the very top of
     highest noon: so that then (and not till then) is the most
     healthful hour to be stirring. Do you require examples to
     persuade you? At what time do Lords and Ladies use to rise but
     then? Your simpering merchants' wives are the fairest lyers in
     the world: and is not eleven o'clock their common hour? they find
     (no doubt) unspeakable sweetness in such lying, else they would
     not day by day put it so in practice. In a word, mid-day slumbers
     are golden; they make the body fat, the skin fair, the flesh
     plump, delicate and tender; they set a russet colour on the
     cheeks of young women, and make lusty courage to rise up in men;
     they make us thrifty, both in sparing victuals (for breakfasts
     thereby are saved from the hell-mouth of the belly) and in
     preserving apparel; for while we warm us in our beds our clothes
     are not worn.

     "The casements of thine eyes being then at this commendable time
     of the day newly set open, choose rather to have thy wind-pipe
     cut in pieces than to salute any man. Bid not good-morrow so much
     as to thy father, though he be an emperor. An idle ceremony it is
     and can do him little good; to thyself it may bring much harm:
     for if he be a wise man that knows how to hold his peace, of
     necessity must he be counted a fool that cannot keep his tongue."

The voluminous work in pamphlet kind of Nicholas Breton, still more the verse efforts closely
akin to it of Samuel Rowlands, John Davies of Hereford and some others, must be passed over
with very brief notice. Dr. Grosart's elaborate edition of the first-named has given a vast
mass of matter very interesting to the student of literature, but which cannot be honestly
recommended to the general reader. Breton, whose long life and perpetual literary activity
fill up great part of our whole period, was an Essex gentleman of a good family (a fact which
he never forgot), and apparently for some time a dependent of the well-known Countess of Pembroke,
Sidney's sister. A much older man than most of the great wits of Elizabeth's reign, he also
survived most of them, and his publications, if not his composition, cover a full half century,
though he was nel mezzo del cammin at the date of the earliest. Sally, the only other name that suits,
has to my ear a vulgarity about it, which unfits it, for anything except burlesque. The legion of
Scottish poetasters of the day, whom your brother editor, Mr. Ritson, ranks with me as my coevals,
have always mistaken vulgarity for simplicity; whereas, simplicity is as much eloignée from vulgarity
on the one hand, as from affected point and puerile conceit on the
other.

I agree with you as to the air, "Craigieburn-wood," that a chorus
would, in some degree, spoil the effect, and shall certainly have
none in my projected song to it. It is not, however, a case in point
with "Rothemurche;" there, as in "Roy's Wife of Aldivalloch," a chorus
goes, to my taste, well enough. In the mots rayonnants, the mots de lumière, he is sadly deficient. But his work
(which is nearly as plentiful in verse as in prose) is, as has been said, very interesting
to the literary student, because it shows better perhaps than anything else the style of literature
which a man, disdaining to condescend to burlesque or bawdry, not gifted with any extraordinary
talent, either at prose or verse, but possessed of a certain literary faculty, could then produce
with a fair chance of being published and bought. It cannot be said that the result shows great
daintiness in Breton's public. The verse, with an improvement in sweetness and fluency, is
very much of the doggerel style which was prevalent before Spenser; and the prose, though showing
considerable faculty, if not of invention, yet of adroit imitation of previously invented styles,
is devoid of distinction and point. There are, however, exercises after Breton's own fashion
in almost every popular style of the time--euphuist romances, moral treatises, packets of letters,
collections of jests and short tales, purely religious tractates, characters (after the style
later illustrated by Overbury and Earle), dialogues, maxims, pictures of manners, collections
of notes about foreign countries,--in fact, the whole farrago of the modern periodical. The
pervading characteristics are Breton's invariable modesty, his pious and, if I may be permitted
to use the word, gentlemanly spirit, and a fashion of writing which, if not very pointed, picturesque,
or epigrammatic, is clear, easy, and on the whole rather superior, in observance of the laws
of grammar and arrangement, to the work of men of much greater note in his day.

The verse pamphlets of Rowlands (whom I have not studied as thoroughly as most others), Davies,
and many less voluminous men, are placed here with all due apology for the liberty. They are
seldom or never of much formal merit, but they are interesting, first, because they testify
to the hold which the mediæval conception of verse, as a general literary medium as suitable
as prose and more attractive, had upon men even at this late time; and secondly, because, like
the purely prose pamphlets, they are full of information as to the manners of the time. For
Rowlands I may refer to Mr. Gosse's essay. John Davies of Hereford, the writing-master, though
he has been carefully edited for students, and is by no means unworthy of study, has had less
benefit of exposition to the general reader. He was not a genius, but he is a good example
of the rather dull man who, despite the disfavour of circumstance, contrives by much assiduity
and ingenious following of models to attain a certain position in literature. There are John
Davieses of Hereford in every age, but since the invention and filing of newspapers their individuality
has been not a little merged. The anonymous journalist of our days is simply to the historian
such and such a paper, volume so-and-so, page so much, column this or that. The good John Davies,
living in another age, still stands as nominis umbra, but with a not inconsiderable body of
work to throw the shadow.

One of the most remarkable, and certainly one of not the least interesting developments of
the Elizabethan pamphlet remains to be noticed. This is the celebrated series of "Martin Marprelate"
tracts, with the replies which they called forth. Indeed the popularity of this series may
be said to have given a great impulse to the whole pamphleteering system. It is somewhat unfortunate
that this interesting subject has never been taken up in full by a dispassionate historian
of literature, sufficiently versed in politics and in theology. In mid-nineteenth century most,
but by no means all of the more notable tracts were reprinted by John Petheram, a London bookseller,
whose productions have since been issued under the well-known imprint of John Russell Smith,
the publisher of the Library of Old Authors. This gave occasion to a review in The Christian
Remembrancer, afterwards enlarged and printed as a book by Mr. Maskell, a High Churchman who
subsequently seceded to the Church of Rome. This latter accident has rather unfavourably and
unfairly affected later judgments of his work, which, however, is certainly not free from party
bias. It has scarcely been less unlucky that the chief recent dealers with the matter, Professor
Arber (who projected a valuable reprint of the whole series in his English Scholars' Library,
and who prefaced it with a quite invaluable introductory sketch), and Dr. Grosart, who also
included divers Anti-Martinist tracts in his privately printed Works of Nashe, are very strongly
prejudiced on the Puritan side.[40] Between these authorities the dispassionate inquirer who
attacks the texts for himself is likely to feel somewhat in the position of a man who exposes
himself to a cross fire. The Martin Marprelate controversy, looked at without prejudice but
with sufficient information, shows itself as a very early example of the reckless violence
of private crotcheteers on the one hand, and of the rather considerable unwisdom of the official
defenders of order on the other. "Martin's" method was to a certain extent an anticipation
of the famous move by which Pascal, fifty years later, "took theology out of the schools into
drawing-rooms," except that Martin and his adversaries transferred the venue rather to the
tap-room than to the drawing-room. The controversy between the framers of the Church of England
in its present state, and the hot gospellers who, with Thomas Cartwright at their head, denied
the proposition (not deniable or denied now by any sane and scholarly disputant) that church
discipline and government are points left to a great extent undefined in the Scriptures, had
gone on for years before Martin appeared. Cartwright and Whitgift had fought, with a certain
advantage of warmth and eloquence on Cartwright's side, and with an immense preponderance of
logical cogency on Whitgift's. Many minor persons had joined in the struggle, and at last a
divine, more worthy than wise, John Bridges, Dean of Salisbury, had produced on the orthodox
side one of those enormous treatises (it had some fifteen hundred quarto pages) which are usually
left unread by the side they favour, and which exasperate the side they oppose. The ordinary
law of the time, moreover, which placed large powers in the hands of the bishops, and especially
entrusted them with a rigid and complete censorship of the press, had begun to be put in force
severely against the more outspoken partisans. Any one who will take the trouble to read the
examination of Henry Barrow, which Mr. Arber has reprinted,[41] or even the "moderate" tracts
of Nicholas Udall, which in a manner ushered in the Marprelate controversy, will probably be
more surprised at the long-suffering of the judges than at the sufferings of their prisoners.
Barrow, in a long and patient examination before the council, of which the Bishop of London
and the Archbishop of Canterbury were members, called them to their faces the one a "wolf,"
a "bloody persecutor," and an "apostate," the other "a monster" and "the second beast that
is spoken of in the Revelations." The "moderate" Udall, after publishing a dialogue (in which
an Anglican bishop called Diotrephes is represented, among other things, as planning measures
against the Puritans in consort with a papist and an usurer), further composed a Demonstration
of Discipline in which, writing, according to Mr. Arber, "without any satire or invective,"
he calls the bishops merely qua bishops, "the wretched fathers of a filthy mother," with abundant
epithets to match, and rains down on every practice of the existing church government such
terms as "blasphemous," "damnable," "hellish," and the like. To the modern reader who looks
at these things with the eyes of the present day, it may of course seem that it would have
been wiser to let the dogs bark. But that was not the principle of the time: and as Mr. Arber
most frankly admits, it was certainly not the principle of the dogs themselves. The Puritans
claimed for themselves a not less absolute right to call in the secular arm if they could,
and a much more absolute certainty and righteousness for their tenets than the very hottest
of their adversaries.

[40] This prejudice is naturally still stronger in some American writers, notably Dr. Dexter.

[41] Arber, Introductory Sketch. p. 40 sqq. All the quotations and references which follow
will be found in Arber's and Petheram's reprints or in Grosart's Nash, vol. 1. If the works
cited are not given as wholes in them, the fact will be noted. (See also Mr. Bond's Lyly.)

Udall was directly, as well as indirectly, the begetter of the Martin Marprelate controversy:
though after he got into trouble in connection with it, he made a sufficiently distinct expression
of disapproval of the Martinist methods, and it seems to have been due more to accident and
his own obstinacy than anything else that he died in prison instead of being obliged with the
honourable banishment of a Guinea chaplaincy. His printer, Waldegrave, had had his press seized
and his license withdrawn for Diotrephes, and resentment at this threw what, in the existing
arrangements of censorship and the Stationers' monopoly, was a very difficult thing to obtain--command
of a practical printer--into the hands of the malcontents. Chief among these malcontents was
a certain Reverend John Penry, a Welshman by birth, a member, as was then not uncommon, of
both universities, and the author, among other more dubious publications, of a plea, intemperately
stated in parts, but very sober and sensible at bottom, for a change in the system of allotting
and administering the benefices of the church in Wales. Which plea, be it observed in passing,
had it been attended to, it would have been better for both the church and state of England
at this day. Probably his being thrown thus early in life into the discharge of onerous and important
duties, had an important effect in producing that firmness and maturity of judgment by which
his mind was subsequently distinguished. Some years afterwards, he gave a convincing proof
of his fitness for the situation, in the vigour with which he remonstrated against the imposition
of a fresh tax on wine, which had the effect of procuring its removal at the time, though the necessities
of government led to its being reimposed some years after. But his ardent mind was not confined
to professional pursuits.

He concurred in the formation of an academy of sciences at Bourdeaux, and
read some papers in it on natural history; and his attention being
in this way turned to physical science, he wrote and published in
the journals, a project for a "Physical History of the Earth, Ancient
and Modern."

But in no human being was more completely exemplified the famous line--

"The
proper study of mankind is man."

Montesquieu's genius was essentially moral and political; it was on man himself,
not the material world with which he was surrounded, that his thoughts were
fixed. This strong bent soon appeared in his writings. He next read at
the academy at Bourdeaux, a "Life of the Duke of Berwick," and an
"Essay on the Policy of the Romans in Religion," which was the basis
of the immortal work which he afterwards composed on the rise and
fall of that extraordinary people.

These desultory essays gave no indication of the first considerable
work which he published, which was the famous Lettres Persanes.

They appeared in 1721, when he was thirty-two years of age.

Their success was immediate and prodigious; a certain indication in
matters of thought, that they were not destined to durable fame.

They fell in with the ideas and passions of the time; they were not
before it; thence their early popularity and ultimate oblivion.

The work was published anonymously; for the keen but delicate satire
on French manners and vices which it contained, might have endangered
the author, and as it was he had no small difficulty, when it was
known he was the writer, in escaping from its effects.

It consists in a series of letters from an imaginary character, Usbeck, a Persian traveller, detailing the
vices, manners, and customs of the French metropolis. The ingenuity, sarcasm, and truth, which
that once celebrated production contains, must not make us shut our eyes to its glaring defects;
the vices of the age, as they mainly contributed to its early popularity, have been the chief cause
of its subsequent decline. It contains many passages improperly warm and voluptuous, and some which, under
the mask of attacks on the Jesuits, had the appearance, at least,
of being levelled at religion itself.

No work, at that period, could attract attention in France which was not disfigured by these
blemishes.

Even the great mind of Montesquieu, in its first essay before the public,
did not escape the contagion of the age.

But, erelong, the genius of this profound thinker was devoted to more congenial
and worthy objects. In 1726, he sold his office of president of the parliament
of Bourdeaux, partly in order to escape from the toils of legal pursuit
and judicial business, which, in that mercantile and rising community,
was attended with great labour; partly in order to be enabled to travel,
and study the institutions and character of different nations--a pursuit
of which he was passionately fond, and which, without doubt, had a powerful
effect in giving him that vast command of detached facts in political
science, and that liberal view of institutions, habits, and manners,
differing in some degree from his own, by which his philosophical
writings are so eminently distinguished.

Here, as in the biography of almost all other really great men, it
is found, that some circumstances apparently trivial or accidental
have given a permanent bent to their mind; have stored it with the
appropriate knowledge, and turned it, as it were, into the allotted
sphere, and contributed to form the matrix in which original thought
was formed, and new truth communicated by Providence to mankind.

In the course of his travels, which lasted several years, he visited successively Austria, Hungary, Italy,
Switzerland, the Rhine, Flanders, Holland, and England--in the latter of which he lived two years. During
these varied travels, he made notes on all the countries which he visited, which contributed largely to the
great stock of political information which he possessed.

These
notes are still extant; but, unfortunately, not in such a state of
maturity as to admit of publication.

On his return to France, which took place in 1732, he retired to his native
chateau of La Brede, and commenced in good earnest the great business
of his life.

Great and original as this work--the most perfect of all his compositions--was,
it did not give vent to the whole ideas which filled his capacious
mind.

Rome,
great as it was, was but a single state; it was the comparison with other states, the development
of the general principles which run through the jurisprudence and
institutions of all nations, which occupied his thoughts.

The success which attended his essay on the institutions and progress of a single people, encouraged
him to enlarge his views and extend his labours.

He came to embrace the whole known world, civilized and uncivilized,
in his plan; and after fourteen years of assiduous labours and toil,
the immortal "Spirit of Laws" appeared.

The history
of Montesquieu's mind, during the progress of this great work, is singularly curious and interesting. At
times he wrote to his friends that his great work advanced "à pas de géant;" at others, he was depressed
by the slow progress which it made, and overwhelmed by the prodigious mass of materials which required
to be worked into its composition.

So distrustful was he of its success, even after the vast labour he
had employed in its composition, that he sent his manuscript before
publication to a friend on whose judgment he could rely--Helvetius.

That friend, notwithstanding all his penetration, was so mistaken
in his reckoning, that he conceived the most serious disquietude as to
the ruin of Montesquieu's reputation by the publication of such a
work.

Such was his alarm that he did not venture to write to the author on the subject, but gave the manuscript
to another critic, Saurin, the author of a work entitled Spartacus, long
since extinct, who passed the same judgment upon it.

Both concurred in thinking that the reputation of Montesquieu would be entirely ruined by the publication
of the new manuscript; the brilliant author of the semi-voluptuous, semi-infidel
Lettres Persanes, would sink into a mere Legist, a dull commentator
on pandects and statutes, if he published the Esprit des Loix, "That,"
said Helvetius, "is what afflicts me for him, and for humanity, which
he was so well qualified to have served."

It was agreed between them that Helvetius should write to Montesquieu to give him an account of their joint
opinion, that he should not give the work to the world in its present state. Saurin, with some reason,
was afraid that Montesquieu would be hurt at their communication;
but Helvetius wrote to him--"Be not uneasy; he is not hurt at our
advice; he loves frankness in his friends.

He is willing to bear with discussions, but answers only by sallies, and rarely changes his opinions. I have
not given him ours from any idea that he would either change his conduct or modify his preconceived
ideas, but from a sense of the duty of sincerity cost what it will, with friends. When the light of truth
shall have dispelled the illusions of self-love, he will at least not be able to reproach
us with having been less indulgent than the public."

Montesquieu, however, was not discouraged. He sent his manuscript to the press with hardly any
alteration, and took for his motto, Prolem sine matre creatam;[1] in allusion to the originality
of his conception, and the total want of any previous model on which
it had been formed.

The work appeared in the month of July 1748; and its success, so far as the sale went, was prodigious. Before
two years had elapsed, it had gone through twenty-two editions,
and been translated into most of the European languages. This early success,
rare in works of profound and original thought, showed, that though
it was in advance of the age, it was but a little in advance; and
that it had struck a key which was ready to vibrate in the national
mind.

Like all distinguished works, if it was much read and admired by some, it was as keenly criticized and
cut to pieces by others.

Madame de Deffand said it was not the Esprit des Loix he had written, but Esprit sur les Loix. This expression
made a great noise; it had a certain degree of truth, just enough, when coupled with epigrammatic brevity,
to make the fortune of the sayer.

Encouraged by its success, the enemies of original genius, ever ready
to assail it, united their forces, and Montesquieu was soon the object
of repeated and envenomed attacks. It was said, that to establish certain
favourite theories, he availed himself of the testimony of travellers
obscure and of doubtful credit; that he leapt too rapidly from particulars
to general conclusions; that he ascribed to the influence of climate
and physical laws what was in fact the result of moral or political
causes; that he had split the same subject into small chapters, so
confusedly arranged that there was no order or system in the work;
that it was still incomplete, and wanted the master-hand which was
to put it together; and that it resembled the detached pieces of a
mosaic pavement, each of which is fair or brilliant in itself, but
which have no meaning or expression till disposed by the taste and
skill of the artist.

There was some truth in all these criticisms; it is rare that it is otherwise with the reproaches
made against a work of original thought. Envy generally discovers a
blot to hit. Malignity is seldom at a loss for some blemish to point
out.

     
     It is by exaggerating slight defects, and preserving silence on great
merits, that literary jealousy ever tries to work out its wretched spite.
The wisdom of an author is not to resent or overlook, but in silence
to profit by such sallies; converting thus the industry and envy of his
enemies into a source of advantage to himself.

Montesquieu, in pursuance of these principles, passed over in silence
the malignant attacks of a herd of critics, whose works are now buried
in the charnel-house of time, but who strove with all the fury of
envy and disappointment to extinguish his rising fame.

     When pressed by some of his friends to answer some of these attacks,
     he replied--"It is unnecessary; I am sufficiently avenged on some by the neglect
     of the public, on others by its indignation." The only instance in
     which he deviated from this wise resolution was in replying to
     
     the attacks of an anonymous critic, who, in a Journal entitled the
     Nouvelles Ecclesiastiques, had represented him as an atheist. In his
     Lettres Persanes, though he had never assailed the great principles of his religion,
     he had, in his sallies against the Jesuits, gone far to warrant the
     belief that he was inclined to do so; and had already done enough
in the estimation of the tyrannical and bigoted ecclesiastics who at that
period ruled the Church of France, to warrant his being included
in the class of infidel writers.

     
     
     But his mind, chastened by years, enlightened by travelling and reflection, had
     come to cast off these prejudices of his age and country, the necessary result
     of the Romish tyranny by which it had been oppressed, but unworthy of an
     intellect of such grasp and candour. In the Protestant
     
     countries of Europe, particularly Holland and England, he had
     seen the working of Christianity detached from the rigid despotism by which
     the Church of Rome fetters belief, and the well-conceived appliances
     by which it stimulates imagination, and opens a refuge for frailty.
     Impressed with the new ideas
     
     
     thus awakened in his mind, he had in his Esprit des Loix pronounced a
studious and sincere eulogium on Christianity; recommending it, not only
as the most perfect of all systems of religious belief, but as the only
secure basis of social order and improvement. It was material to correct
the impression, partly just, partly erroneous, which his earlier and more indiscreet
writings had produced; and with this view he wrote and published his
Defence de l' Esprit des Loix.

     This little piece is a model of just and candid reasoning, accompanied with a refined
     and delicate vein of ridicule, which disarmed opposition without
     giving ground for resentment. He congratulated himself on the fine satire
     with which he had overthrown his enemies.--"What pleases me in my Defence,
     is not so much," said he, "to have floored the Ecclesiastics, as
to have let them fall so gently." Posterity will find a more valuable
charm in this little production; it is, that the author in it has unconsciously
painted himself. His contemporaries have recorded, that in reading
it they could believe they heard the writer speak; and this proves
that his talents in conversation had been equal to those he displayed
in writing--a combination very rare in persons of the highest class
in literature.

     
     
     

The fame of Montesquieu, great as it was in his own country, was
even greater in foreign ones.

     In Great Britain in particular, the Esprit des Loix early acquired a prodigious
     reputation. It was read and admired by all persons of thought and education.
     This was partly the consequence of England being so much in advance
     of France in the career
     
     of liberty--alike in matters civil and ecclesiastical.
     
     The new ideas, hardy thoughts, and original conceptions of the great work met
     with a ready reception, and cordial admiration, in the land of freedom and the Reformation--in
     the country where meditation had so long been turned to political subjects,
     contemplation to religious truth. But another cause of lasting
     
     influence also contributed to the same effect.
     
     Original genius is ever more readily and willingly admired in foreign states
     than its own: a prophet has no honour in his own country. He interferes
     too much with existing influences or reputations. To foreigners, he is more remote--more
     like a dead man. Human vanity
     
     is less hurt by his elevation.
     
     The latter years of Montesquieu's life were spent almost entirely in retirement
     at his paternal chateau of La Brede, varied occasionally by visits to the
great world at Paris. He was occupied in agriculture and gardening--tenacious of his
seignorial rights, but indulgent to the last degree to his tenantry,
by whom he was adored.

       

              
                  Never was exemplified in a more remarkable
     manner the soothing influence of the recollections of a well-spent life
              on the felicity of its later years, or the fountains
                        of happiness which may be opened in
                          the breast itself from the calm serenity of conscious power and great
achievement.

     He conversed much, with the farmers and peasants on his estate, whose
     houses he frequently entered, and whose convivialities, on occasion
     of a marriage or a birth, he seldom failed to attend. He often preferred
     their conversation to that of persons their superiors in rank or information--"for,"
     said he, "they are not learned enough to enter into argument; they only tell
     you what they know, which frequently you do not know yourself."

Though
     
     he lived with the great when in Paris, partly from necessity, partly from inclination,
     yet their society was noways necessary to his happiness. He flew
     as soon as he could from their brilliant assemblies to the retirement
     of his estate, where he found with joy, philosophy, books, and repose.

 Say not my
     speeches are light, for I have weighed yours and mine, and I find
     yours lighter by twenty grains than the allowance. For number you
     exceed, for you have thirty ribald words for my one, and yet you
     bear a good spirit. I was loth so to write as I have done, but
     that I learned, that he that drinks with cutters, must not be
     without his ale daggers; nor he that buckles with Martin, without
     his lavish terms.

     "Who would curry an ass with an ivory comb? Give the beast
     thistles for provender. I do but yet angle with a silken fly, to
     see whether martins will nibble; and if I see that, why then I
     have worms for the nonce, and will give them line enough like a
     trout, till they swallow both hook and line, and then, Martin,
     beware your gills, for I'll make you dance at the pole's end.

     "I know Martin will with a trice bestride my shoulders. Well, if
     he ride me, let the fool sit fast, for my wit is very hickish:
     which if he spur with his copper reply, when it bleeds, it will
     all to besmear their consciences.

     "If a martin can play at chess, as well as his nephew the ape, he
     shall know what it is for a scaddle pawn to cross a Bishop in his
     own walk. Such diedappers must be taken up, else they'll not
     stick to check the king. Rip up my life, discipher my name, fill
     thy answer as full of lies as of lines, swell like a toad, hiss
     like an adder, bite like a dog, and chatter like a monkey, my pen
     is prepared and my mind; and if ye chance to find any worse words
     than you brought, let them be put in your dad's dictionary. And
     so farewell, and be hanged, and I pray God ye fare no worse.

            "Yours at an hour's warning,

                      "DOUBLE V."

[48] Well-known stage characters in Preston's Cambyses.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "By this time I think, good-man Puritan, that thou art persuaded,
     that I know as well as thy own conscience thee, namely Martin
     Makebate of England, to be a most scurvy and beggarly benefactor
     to obedience, and per consequens, to fear neither men, nor that
     God Who can cast both body and soul into unquenchable fire. In
     which respect I neither account you of the Church, nor esteem of
     your blood, otherwise than the blood of Infidels. Talk as long as
     you will of the joys of heaven, or pains of hell, and turn from
     yourselves the terror of that judgment how you will, which shall
     bereave blushing iniquity of the fig-leaves of hypocrisy, yet
     will the eye of immortality discern of your painted pollutions,
     as the ever-living food of perdition. The humours of my eyes are
     the habitations of fountains, and the circumference of my heart
     the enclosure of fearful contrition, when I think how many souls
     at that moment shall carry the name of Martin on their foreheads
     to the vale of confusion, in whose innocent blood thou swimming
     to hell, shalt have the torments of ten thousand thousand sinners
     at once, inflicted upon thee. There will envy, malice, and
     dissimulation be ever calling for vengeance against thee, and
     incite whole legions of devils to thy deathless lamentation.
     Mercy will say unto thee, I know thee not, and Repentance, what
     have I to do with thee? All hopes shall shake the head at thee,
     and say: there goes the poison of purity, the perfection of
     impiety, the serpentine seducer of simplicity. Zeal herself will
     cry out upon thee, and curse the time that ever she was mashed by
     thy malice, who like a blind leader of the blind, sufferedst her
     to stumble at every step in Religion, and madest her seek in the
     dimness of her sight, to murder her mother the Church, from whose
     paps thou like an envious dog but yesterday pluckedst her.
     However, proud scorner, thy whorish impudency may happen
     hereafter to insist in the derision of these fearful
     denunciations, and sport thy jester's pen at the speech of my
     soul, yet take heed least despair be predominant in the day of
     thy death, and thou instead of calling for mercy to thy Jesus,
     repeat more oftener to thyself, Sic morior damnatus ut Judas!
     And thus much, Martin, in the way of compassion, have I spoke for
     thy edification, moved thereto by a brotherly commiseration,
     which if thou be not too desperate in thy devilish attempts, may
     reform thy heart to remorse, and thy pamphlets to some more
     profitable theme of repentance."

If Martin Marprelate is compared with the Epistolæ Obscurorum Virorum earlier, or the Satire
Menippée very little later, the want of polish and directness about contemporary English satire
will be strikingly apparent. At the same time he does not compare badly with his own antagonists.
The divines like Cooper are, as has been said, too serious. The men of letters like Lyly and
Nash are not nearly serious enough, though some exception may be made for Nash, especially
if Pasquil's Apology be his. They out-Martin Martin himself in mere abusiveness, in deliberate
quaintness of phrase, in fantastic vapourings and promises of the dreadful things that are
going to be done to the enemy. They deal some shrewd hits at the glaring faults of their subject,
his outrageous abuse of authorities, his profanity, his ribaldry, his irrelevance; but in point
of the three last qualities there is not much to choose between him and them. One line of counter
attack they did indeed hit upon, which was followed up for generations with no small success
against the Nonconformists, and that is the charge of hypocritical abuse of the influence which
the Nonconformist teachers early acquired over women. The germs of the unmatched passages to
this effect in The Tale of a Tub may be found in the rough horseplay of Pap with a Hatchet
and An Almond for a Parrot. But the spirit of the whole controversy is in fact a spirit of
horseplay. Abuse takes the place of sarcasm, Rabelaisian luxuriance of words the place of the
plain hard hitting, with no flourishes or capers, but with every blow given straight from the
shoulder, which Dryden and Halifax, Swift and Bentley, were to introduce into English controversy
a hundred years later. The peculiar exuberance of Elizabethan literature, evident in all its
departments, is nowhere more evident than in this department of the prose pamphlet, and in
no section of that department is it more evident than in the Tracts of the Martin Marprelate
Controversy. Never perhaps were more wild and whirling words used about any exceedingly serious
and highly technical matter of discussion; and probably most readers who have ventured into
the midst of the tussle will sympathise with the adjuration of Plain Percivall the Peacemaker
of England (supposed to be Richard Harvey, brother of Gabriel, who was himself not entirely
free from suspicion of concernment in the matter), "My masters, that strive for this supernatural
art of wrangling, let all be husht and quiet a-God's name." It is needless to say that the
disputants did not comply with Plain Percivall's request. Indeed they bestowed some of their
choicest abuse on him in return for his advice. Not even by the casting of the most peacemaking
of all dust, that of years and the grave, can it be said that these jars at last compacta quiescunt.
For it is difficult to find any account of the transaction which does not break out sooner
or later into strong language.

CHAPTER VII

THE THIRD DRAMATIC PERIOD

I have chosen, to fill the third division of our dramatic chapters, seven chief writers of
distinguished individuality, reserving a certain fringe of anonymous plays and of less famous
personalities for the fourth and last. The seven exceptional persons are Beaumont and Fletcher,
Webster, Middleton, Heywood, Tourneur, and Day. It would be perhaps lost labour to attempt
to make out a severe definition, shutting these off on the one hand from their predecessors,
on the other from those that followed them. We must be satisfied in such cases with an approach
to exactness, and it is certain that while most of the men just named had made some appearance
in the latest years of Elizabeth, and while one or two of them lasted into the earliest years
of Charles, they all represent, in their period of flourishing and in the character of their
work, the Jacobean age. In some of them, as in Middleton and Day, the Elizabethan type prevails;
in others, as in Fletcher, a distinctly new flavour--a flavour not perceptible in Shakespere,
much less in Marlowe--appears. But in none of them is that other flavour of pronounced decadence,
which appears in the work of men so great as Massinger and Ford, at all perceptible. We are
still in the creative period, and in some of the work to be now noticed we are in a comparatively
unformed stage of it. It has been said, and not unjustly said, that the work of Beaumont and
Fletcher belongs, when looked at on one side, not to the days of Elizabeth at all, but to the
later seventeenth century; and this is true to the extent that the post-Restoration dramatists
copied Fletcher and followed Fletcher very much more than Shakespere. But not only dates but
other characteristics refer the work of Beaumont and Fletcher to a distinctly earlier period
than the work of their, in some sense, successors Massinger and Ford.

It will have been observed that I cleave to the old-fashioned nomenclature, and speak of "Beaumont
and Fletcher." Until very recently, when two new editions have made their appearance, there
was for a time a certain tendency to bring Fletcher into greater prominence than his partner,
but at the same time and on the whole to depreciate both. I am in all things but ill-disposed
to admit innovation without the clearest and most cogent proofs; and although the comparatively
short life of Beaumont makes it impossible that he should have taken part in some of the fifty-two
plays traditionally assigned to the partnership (we may perhaps add Mr. Bullen's remarkable
discovery of Sir John Barneveldt, in which Massinger probably took Beaumont's place), I see
no reason to dispute the well-established theory that Beaumont contributed at least criticism,
and probably original work, to a large number of these plays; and that his influence probably
survived himself in conditioning his partner's work. And I am also disposed to think that the
plays attributed to the pair have scarcely had fair measure in comparison with the work of
their contemporaries, which was so long neglected. Beaumont and Fletcher kept the stage--kept
it constantly and triumphantly--till almost, if not quite, within living memory; while since
the seventeenth century, and since its earlier part, I believe that very few plays of Dekker's
or Middleton's, of Webster's or of Ford's, have been presented to an English audience. This
of itself constituted at the great revival of interest in Elizabethan literature something
of a prejudice in favour of les oubliés et les dédaignés, and this prejudice has naturally
grown stronger since all alike have been banished from the stage. The Copper Captain and the
Humorous Lieutenant, Bessus and Monsieur Thomas, are no longer on the boards to plead for their
authors. The comparative depreciation of Lamb and others is still on the shelves to support
their rivals.

Although we still know but little about either Beaumont or Fletcher personally, they differ
from most of their great contemporaries by having come of "kenned folk," and by having to all
appearance, industrious as they were, had no inducement to write for money. Francis Beaumont
was born at Gracedieu, in Leicestershire in 1584. He was the son of a chief-justice; his family
had for generations been eminent, chiefly in the law; his brother, Sir John Beaumont, was not
only a poet of some merit, but a man of position, and Francis himself, two years before his
death in 1616, married a Kentish heiress. He was educated at Broadgates Hall (now Pembroke
College), Oxford, and seems to have made acquaintance with John Fletcher soon after quitting
the University. Fletcher was five years older than his friend, and of a clerical family, his
father being Bishop of London, and his uncle, Giles Fletcher (the author of Licia), a dignitary
of the Church. The younger Giles Fletcher and his brother Phineas were thus cousins of the
dramatist. Fletcher was a Cambridge man, having been educated at Benet College (at present
and indeed originally known as Corpus Christi). Little else is known of him except that he
died of the plague in 1625, nine years after Beaumont's death, as he had been born five years
before him. These two men, however, one of whom was but thirty and the other not fifty when
he died, have left by far the largest collection of printed plays attributed to any English
author. A good deal of dispute has been indulged in as to their probable shares,--the most
likely opinion being that Fletcher was the creator and Beaumont (whose abilities in criticism
were recognised by such a judge as Ben Jonson) the critical and revising spirit. About a third
of the whole number have been supposed to represent Beaumont's influence more or less directly.
These include the two finest, The Maid's Tragedy and Philaster; while as to the third play,
which may be put on the same level, The Two Noble Kinsmen, early assertion, confirmed by a
constant catena of the best critical authority, maintains that Beaumont's place was taken by
no less a collaborator than Shakespere. Fletcher, as has been said, wrote in conjunction with
Massinger (we know this for certain from Sir Aston Cokain), and with Rowley and others, while
Shirley seems to have finished some of his plays. Some modern criticism has manifested a desire
to apply the always uncertain and usually unprofitable tests of separation to the great mass
of his work. With this we need not busy ourselves. The received collection has quite sufficient
idiosyncrasy of its own as a whole to make it superfluous for any one, except as a matter of
amusement, to try to split it up.

Its characteristics are, as has been said, sufficiently marked, both in defects and in merits.
The comparative depreciation which has come upon Beaumont and Fletcher naturally fixes on the
defects. There is in the work of the pair, and especially in Fletcher's work when he wrought
alone, a certain loose fluency, an ungirt and relaxed air, which contrasts very strongly with
the strenuous ways of the elder playwrights. This exhibits itself not in plotting or playwork
proper, but in style and in versification (the redundant syllable predominating, and every
now and then the verse slipping away altogether into the strange medley between verse and prose,
which we shall find so frequent in the next and last period), and also in the characters. We
quit indeed the monstrous types of cruelty, of lust, of revenge, in which many of the Elizabethans
proper and of Fletcher's own contemporaries delighted. But at the same time we find a decidedly
lowered standard of general morality--a distinct approach towards the fay ce que voudras of
the Restoration. We are also nearer to the region of the commonplace. Nowhere appears that
attempt to grapple with the impossible, that wrestle with the hardest problems, which Marlowe
began, and which he taught to some at least of his followers. And lastly--despite innumerable
touches of tender and not a few of heroic poetry--the actual poetical value of the dramas at
their best is below that of the best work of the preceding time, and of such contemporaries
as Webster and Dekker. Beaumont and Fletcher constantly delight, but they do not very often
transport, and even when they do, it is with a less strange rapture than that which communicates
itself to the reader of Shakespere passim, and to the readers of many of Shakespere's fellows
here and there.

This, I think, is a fair allowance. But, when it is made, a goodly capital whereon to draw
still remains to our poets. In the first place, no sound criticism can possibly overlook the
astonishing volume and variety of their work. No doubt they did not often (if they ever did)
invent their fables. But they have never failed to treat them in such a way as to make them
original, and this of itself shows a wonderful faculty of invention and constitutes an inexhaustible
source of pleasure. This pleasure is all the more pleasurable because the matter is always
presented in a thoroughly workmanlike form. The shapelessness, the incoherence, the necessity
for endless annotation and patching together, which mar so many even of the finest Elizabethan
plays, have no place in Beaumont and Fletcher. Their dramatic construction is almost narrative
in its clear and easy flow, in its absence of puzzles and piecings. Again, their stories are
always interesting, and their characters (especially the lighter ones) always more or less
attractive. It used to be fashionable to praise their "young men," probably because of the
agreeable contrast which they present with the brutality of the Restoration hero; but their
girls are more to my fancy. They were not straightlaced, and have left some sufficiently ugly
and (let it be added) not too natural types of sheer impudence, such as the Megra of Philaster.
Nor could they ever attain to the romantic perfection of Imogen in one kind, of Rosalind in
another, of Juliet in a third. But for portraits of pleasant English girls not too squeamish,
not at all afraid of love-making, quite convinced of the hackneyed assertion of the mythologists
that jests and jokes go in the train of Venus, but true-hearted, affectionate, and of a sound,
if not a very nice morality, commend me to Fletcher's Dorotheas, and Marys, and Celias. Add
to this the excellence of their comedy (there is little better comedy of its kind anywhere
than that of A King and no King, of the Humorous Lieutenant, of Rule a Wife and have a Wife),
their generally high standard of dialogue verse, their charming songs, and it will be seen
that if they have not the daemonic virtue of a few great dramatic poets, they have at any rate
very good, solid, pleasant, and plentiful substitutes for it.

It is no light matter to criticise more than fifty plays in not many times fifty lines; yet
something must be said about some of them at any rate. The play which usually opens the series,
The Maid's Tragedy, is perhaps the finest of all on the purely tragic side, though its plot
is a little improbable, and to modern notions not very agreeable. Hazlitt disliked it much;
and though this is chiefly to be accounted for by the monarchical tone of it, it is certainly
faulty in parts. It shows, in the first place, the authors' greatest dramatic weakness--a weakness
common indeed to all their tribe except Shakespere--the representation of sudden and quite
insufficiently motived moral revolutions; and, secondly, another fault of theirs in the representation
of helpless and rather nerveless virtue punished without fault of its own indeed, but also
without any effort. The Aspatia of The Maid's Tragedy and the Bellario of Philaster, pathetic
as they are, are also slightly irritating. Still the pathos is great, and the quarrel or threatened
quarrel of the friends Amintor and Melantius, the horrible trial put upon Amintor by his sovereign
and the abandoned Evadne, as well as the whole part of Evadne herself when she has once been
(rather improbably) converted, are excellent. A passage of some length from the latter part
of the play may supply as well as another the sufficient requirement of an illustrative extract:--

    Evad. "O my lord!

    Amin. How now?

    Evad. My much abused Lord! (Kneels.)

    Amin. This cannot be.

    Evad. I do not kneel to live, I dare not hope it;
            The wrongs I did are greater: look upon me
            Though I appear with all my faults.

    Amin. Stand up.
            This is a new way to beget more sorrow.
            Heav'n knows, I have too many; do not mock me;
            Though I am tame and bred up with my wrongs
            Which are my foster-brothers, I may leap
            Like a hand-wolf into my natural wildness
            And do an outrage: pray thee, do not mock me.

    Evad. My whole life is so leprous, it infects
            All my repentance: I would buy your pardon
            Though at the highest set, even with my life:
            That slight contrition, that's no sacrifice
            For what I have committed.

    Amin. Sure I dazzle.
            There cannot be a Faith in that foul woman
            That knows no God more mighty than her mischiefs:
            Thou dost still worse, still number on thy faults
            To press my poor heart thus. Can I believe
            There's any seed of virtue in that woman
            Left to shoot up, that dares go on in sin
            Known, and so known as thine is? O Evadne!
            'Would, there were any safety in thy sex,
            That I might put a thousand sorrows off,
            And credit thy repentance! But I must not;
            Thou'st brought me to that dull calamity,
            To that strange misbelief of all the world
            And all things that are in it; that, I fear
            I shall fall like a tree, and find my grave,
            Only remembering that I grieve.

    Evad. My lord,
            Give me your griefs: you are an innocent,
            A soul as white as Heav'n. Let not my sins
            Perish your noble youth: I do not fall here
            To shadows by dissembling with my tears
            (As, all say, women can) or to make less
            What my hot will hath done, which Heav'n and you
            Knows to be tougher than the hand of time
            Can cut from man's remembrance; no, I do not;
            I do appear the same, the same Evadne
            Drest in the shames I liv'd in; the same monster:
            But these are names of honour, to what I am;
            I do present myself the foulest creature
            Most pois'nous, dang'rous, and despis'd of men,
            Lerna e'er bred, or Nilus: I am hell,
            Till you, my dear lord, shoot your light into me
            The beams of your forgiveness: I am soul-sick;
            And wither with the fear of one condemn'd,
            Till I have got your pardon.

    Amin. Rise, Evadne.
            Those heavenly Powers, that put this good into thee,
            Grant a continuance of it: I forgive thee;
            Make thyself worthy of it, and take heed,
            Take heed, Evadne, this be serious;
            Mock not the Pow'rs above, that can and dare
            Give thee a great example of their justice
            To all ensuing eyes, if that thou playest
            With thy repentance, the best sacrifice.

    Evad. I have done nothing good to win belief,
            My life hath been so faithless; all the creatures
            Made for Heav'n's honours, have their ends, and good ones,
            All but the cozening crocodiles, false women;
            They reign here like those plagues, those killing sores,
            Men pray against; and when they die, like tales
            Ill told, and unbeliev'd they pass away
            And go to dust forgotten: But, my lord,
            Those short days I shall number to my rest,
            (As many must not see me) shall, though late
            (Though in my evening, yet perceive a will,)
            Since I can do no good, because a woman,
            Reach constantly at something that is near it;
            I will redeem one minute of my age,
            Or, like another Niobe, I'll weep
            Till I am water.

    Amin. I am now dissolv'd.
            My frozen soul melts: may each sin thou hast
            Find a new mercy! rise, I am at peace:
            Hadst thou been thus, thus excellently good,
            Before that devil king tempted thy frailty,
            Sure, thou hadst made a star. Give me thy hand;
            From this time I will know thee, and as far
            As honour gives me leave, be thy Amintor.
            When we meet next, I will salute thee fairly
            And pray the gods to give thee happy days.
            My charity shall go along with thee
            Though my embraces must be far from thee.
            I should ha' kill'd thee, but this sweet repentance
            Locks up my vengeance, for which thus I kiss thee,
            The last kiss we must take."

The beautiful play of Philaster has already been glanced at; it is sufficient to add that its
detached passages are deservedly the most famous of all. The insufficiency of the reasons of
Philaster's jealousy may be considered by different persons as affecting to a different extent
the merit of the piece. In these two pieces tragedy, or at least tragi-comedy, has the upper
hand; it is in the next pair as usually arranged (for the chronological order of these plays
is hitherto unsolved) that Fletcher's singular vis comica appears. A King and no King has a
very serious plot; and the loves of Arbaces and Panthea are most lofty, insolent, and passionate.
But the comedy of Bessus and his two swordsmen, which is fresh and vivid even after Bobadil
and Parolles (I do not say Falstaff, because I hold it a vulgar error to consider Falstaff
as really a coward at all), is perhaps more generally interesting. As for The Scornful Lady
it is comedy pure and simple, and very excellent comedy too. The callousness of the younger
Loveless--an ugly forerunner of Restoration manners--injures it a little, and the instantaneous
and quite unreasonable conversion of the usurer Morecraft a little more. But the humours of
the Lady herself (a most Molièresque personage), and those of Roger and Abigail, with many
minor touches, more than redeem it. The plays which follow [49] are all comical and mostly
farcical. The situations, rather than the expressions of The Custom of the Country, bring it
under the ban of a rather unfair condemnation of Dryden's, pronounced when he was quite unsuccessfully
trying to free the drama of himself and his contemporaries from Collier's damning charges.
But there are many lively traits in it. The Elder Brother is one of those many variations on
cedant arma togæ which men of letters have always been somewhat prone to overvalue; but the
excellent comedy of The Spanish Curate is not impaired by the fact that Dryden chose to adapt
it after his own fashion in The Spanish Friar. In Wit Without Money, though it is as usual
amusing, the stage preference for a "roaring boy," a senseless crack-brained spendthrift, appears
perhaps a little too strongly. The Beggar's Bush is interesting because of its early indications
of cant language, connecting it with Brome's Jovial Crew, and with Dekker's thieves' Latin
pamphlets. But the faults and the merits of Fletcher have scarcely found better expression
anywhere than in The Humorous Lieutenant. Celia is his masterpiece in the delineation of the
type of girl outlined above, and awkward as her double courtship by Demetrius and his father
Antigonus is, one somehow forgives it, despite the nauseous crew of go-betweens of both sexes
whom Fletcher here as elsewhere seems to take a pleasure in introducing. As for the Lieutenant
he is quite charming; and even the ultra-farcical episode of his falling in love with the king
owing to a philtre is well carried off. Then follows the delightful pastoral of The Faithful
Shepherdess, which ranks with Jonson's Sad Shepherd and with Comus, as the three chiefs of
its style in English. The Loyal Subject falls a little behind, as also does The Mad Lover;
but Rule a Wife and have a Wife again rises to the first class. Inferior to Shakespere in the
power of transcending without travestying human affairs, to Jonson in sharply presented humours,
to Congreve and Sheridan in rattling fire of dialogue, our authors have no superior in half-farcical,
half-pathetic comedy of a certain kind, and they have perhaps nowhere shown their power better
than in the picture of the Copper Captain and his Wife. The flagrant absurdity of The Laws
of Candy (which put the penalty of death on ingratitude, and apparently fix no criterion of
what ingratitude is, except the decision of the person who thinks himself ungratefully treated),
spoils a play which is not worse written than the rest. But in The False One, based on Egyptian
history just after Pompey's death, and Valentinian, which follows with a little poetical license
the crimes and punishment of that Emperor, a return is made to pure tragedy--in both cases
with great success. The magnificent passage which Hazlitt singled out from The False One is
perhaps the author's or authors' highest attempt in tragic declamation, and may be considered
to have stopped not far short of the highest tragic poetry.

[49] It may perhaps be well to mention that the references to "volumes" are to the ten-volume
edition of 1750, by Theobald, Seward, and others.

The chief fault of Valentinian is that the character of Maximus is very indistinctly drawn,
and that of Eudoxia nearly unintelligible. These two pure tragedies are contrasted with two
comedies, The Little French Lawyer and Monsieur Thomas, which deserve high praise. The fabliau-motive
of the first is happily contrasted with the character of Lamira and the friendship of Clerimont
and Dinant; while no play has so many of Fletcher's agreeable young women as Monsieur Thomas.
The Bloody Brother, which its title speaks as sufficiently tragical, comes between two excellent
comedies, The Chances and The Wild Goose Chase, which might serve as well as any others for
samples of the whole work on its comic side. In The Chances the portrait of the hare-brained
Don John is the chief thing; in The Wild Goose Chase, as in Monsieur Thomas, a whole bevy of
lively characters, male and female, dispute the reader's attention and divide his preference.
A Wife for a Month sounds comic, but is not a little alloyed with tragedy; and despite the
pathos of its central situation, is marred by some of Fletcher's ugliest characters--the characters
which Shakespere in Pandarus and the nurse in Romeo and Juliet took care to touch with his
lightest finger. The Lover's Progress, a doubtful tragedy, and The Pilgrim, a good comedy (revived
at the end of the century, as was The Prophetess with certain help from Dryden), do not require
any special notice. Between these two last comes The Captain, a comedy neither of the best
nor yet of the worst. The tragi-comic Queen of Corinth is a little heavy; but in Bonduca we
have one of the very best of the author's tragedies, the scenes with Caratach and his nephew,
the boy Hengo, being full of touches not wholly unworthy of Shakespere. The Knight of the Burning
Pestle (where Fletcher, forsaking his usual fantastic grounds of a France that is scarcely
French, and an Italy that is extremely un-Italian, comes to simple pictures of London middle-class
life, such as those of Jonson or Middleton) is a very happy piece of work indeed, despite the
difficulty of working out its double presentment of burlesque knight-errantry and straightforward
comedy of manners. But these dry, though important studies, did not exclusively occupy his mind;
he carried on, at the same time, a great variety of other pursuits. Like all men of an active
and intellectual turn of mind, his recreation was found not in repose, but in change of occupation.
Books of voyages and travels were collected, and read with avidity;
he devoured rather than read the classical remains of Greece and
Rome.

"That antiquity," said he, "enchants me, and I am always ready to
say with Pliny--You are going to Athens; show respect to the gods."

It was under this feeling of devout gratitude to the master minds of
the ancient world, that he made his first essay in literature, which
came out in a small work in the form of letters, the object of which
was to show, that the idolatry of most Pagans did of itself not merit
eternal damnation.

Probably there are few good Christians, from Fénélon and Tillotson
downwards, who will be of an opposite opinion.

Even in that juvenile production are to be found traces of the sound judgment, correct taste, and
general thought which characterised his later works.

But he was soon thrown into the proper labours of his profession. On the 24th February 1714, he was admitted
into the parliament of Bourdeaux as a councillor; and his paternal uncle, who held the president's chair, having
died two years after, young Montesquieu was, on the 13th July 1716, appointed to that important office,
though only twenty-seven years of age. Probably his being thrown thus early in life into the
discharge of onerous and important duties, had an important effect in producing that firmness and maturity
of judgment by which his mind was subsequently distinguished. Some
years afterwards, he gave a convincing proof of his fitness for the
situation, in the vigour with which he remonstrated against the imposition
of a fresh tax on wine, which had the effect of procuring its removal
at the time, though the necessities of government led to its being
reimposed some years after. The extravagant absurdity of the traveller
Antonio is made more probable than is sometimes the case with our authors, and the situations
of the whole join neatly, and pass trippingly. Wit at Several Weapons deserves a somewhat similar
description, and so does The Fair Maid of the Inn; while Cupid's Revenge, though it shocked
the editors of 1750 as a pagan kind of play, has a fine tragical zest, and is quite true to
classical belief in its delineation of the ruthlessness of the offended Deity. Undoubtedly,
however, the last volume of this edition supplies the most interesting material of any except
the first. Here is The Two Noble Kinsmen, a play founded on the story of Palamon and Arcite,
and containing what I think irrefragable proofs of Shakespere's writing and versification,
though I am unable to discern anything very Shakesperian either in plot or character. Then
comes the fine, though horrible tragedy of Thierry and Theodoret, in which the misdeeds of
Queen Brunehault find chroniclers who are neither squeamish nor feeble. The beautiful part
of Ordella in this play, though somewhat sentimental and improbable (as is always the case
with Fletcher's very virtuous characters) ranks at the head of its kind, and is much superior
to that of Aspatia in The Maid's Tragedy. The Woman Hater, said to be Fletcher's earliest play,
has a character of rare comic, or at least farcical virtue in the smell-feast Lazarillo with
his Odyssey in chase of the Umbrana's head (a delicacy which is perpetually escaping him);
and The Nice Valour contains, in Chamont and his brother, the most successful attempts of the
English stage at the delineation of the point of honour gone mad. Not so much, perhaps, can
be said for An Honest Man's Fortune, which, with a mask and a clumsy, though in part beautiful,
piece entitled Four Plays in One, makes up the tale. But whosoever has gone through that tale
will, if he has any taste for the subject, admit that such a total of work, so varied in character,
and so full of excellences in all its variety, has not been set to the credit of any name or
names in English literature, if we except only Shakespere. Of the highest and most terrible
graces, as of the sweetest and most poetical, Beaumont and Fletcher may have little to set
beside the masterpieces of some other men; for accomplished, varied, and fertile production,
they need not fear any competition.

It has not been usual to put Thomas Middleton in the front rank among the dramatists immediately
second to Shakespere; but I have myself no hesitation in doing so. If he is not such a poet
as Webster, he is even a better, and certainly a more versatile, dramatist; and if his plays
are inferior as plays to those of Fletcher and Massinger, he has a mastery of the very highest
tragedy, which neither of them could attain. Except the best scenes of The White Devil, and
The Duchess of Malfi, there is nothing out of Shakespere that can match the best scenes of
The Changeling; while Middleton had a comic faculty, in which, to all appearance, Webster was
entirely lacking. A little more is known about Middleton than about most of his fellows. He
was the son of a gentleman, and was pretty certainly born in London about 1570. It does not
appear that he was a university man, but he seems to have been at Gray's Inn. His earliest
known work was not dramatic, and was exceedingly bad. In 1597 he published a verse paraphrase
of the Wisdom of Solomon, which makes even that admirable book unreadable; and if, as seems
pretty certain, the Microcynicon of two years later is his, he is responsible for one of the
worst and feeblest exercises in the school--never a very strong one--of Hall and Marston. Some
prose tracts of the usual kind are not better; but either at the extreme end of the sixteenth
century, or in the very earliest years of the next, Middleton turned his attention to the then
all absorbing drama, and for many years was (chiefly in collaboration) a busy playwright. We
have some score of plays which are either his alone, or in greatest part his. The order of
their composition is very uncertain, and as with most of the dramatists of the period, not
a few of them never appeared in print till long after the author's death. He was frequently
employed in composing pageants for the City of London, and in 1620 was appointed city chronologer.
In 1624 Middleton got into trouble. His play, The Game of Chess, which was a direct attack
on Spain and Rome, and a personal satire on Gondomar, was immensely popular, but its nine days'
run was abruptly stopped on the complaint of the Spanish ambassador; the poet's son, it would
seem, had to appear before the Council, and Middleton himself was (according to tradition)
imprisoned for some time. In this same year he was living at Newington Butts. He died there
in the summer of 1627, and was succeeded as chronologer by Ben Jonson. His widow, Magdalen,
received a gratuity from the Common Council, but seems to have followed her husband in a little
over a year.

Middleton's acknowledged, or at least accepted, habit of collaboration in most of the work
usually attributed to him, and the strong suspicion, if not more than suspicion, that he collaborated
in other plays, afford endless opportunity for the exercise of a certain kind of criticism.
By employing another kind we can discern quite sufficiently a strong individuality in the work
that is certainly, in part or in whole, his; and we need not go farther. He seems to have had
three different kinds of dramatic aptitude, in all of which he excelled. The larger number
of his plays consist of examples of the rattling comedy of intrigue and manners, often openly
representing London life as it was, sometimes transplanting what is an evident picture of home
manners to some foreign scene apparently for no other object than to make it more attractive
to the spectators. To any one at all acquainted with the Elizabethan drama their very titles
speak them. Pope Pius VII.]

[Footnote 420: Madame de Staël.

(See note 361.)]

[Footnote 421: Mr. Hazlitt. William Hazlitt, an English writer.]

[Footnote
422: Montaigne.

A French essayist of the sixteenth century.]

[Footnote 423: The hint of tranquillity and self-poise. It is suggested
that Emerson had here in mind a favorite passage of the German author,
Richter, in which Richter says of the Greek statues: "The repose not
of weariness but of perfection looks from their eyes and rests upon
their lips."]

[Footnote 424: A Chinese etiquette.

What does Emerson mean by
this expression?]

[Footnote 425: Recall.

In the first edition, Emerson had here the word "signify."

Which is the better word and why?]

[Footnote
426: Measure.

What meaning has this word here?

Is this the sense in which we generally use it?]

[Footnote 427: Creole natures.

What is a creole? What does Emerson mean by "Creole natures"?]

[Footnote
428: Mr. Fox.

Charles James
Fox, an English statesman and orator of the eighteenth century.]

[Footnote
429: Burke.

Both Fox and Burke opposed the taxation of the American colonies
and sympathized with their resistance; it was on the subject of the
French Revolution that the two friends clashed.]

[Footnote 430: Sheridan.

Richard Brinsley Sheridan, an Irish dramatist, member of the famous Literary Club to which both Fox and
Burke belonged.]

[Footnote 431: Circe.

According to Greek legend, Circe was a beautiful enchantress. Men who
partook of the draught she offered, were turned to swine.]

[Footnote
432: Captain Symmes.

The only real
personage of this group.

He asserted that there was an opening to the interior of the earth
which was stocked with plants and animals.]

[Footnote 433: Clerisy.

What word would
we be more apt to use here?]

[Footnote 434: St. Michael's (Square). St. Michael's was an order instituted
by Louis XI. of France.]

[Footnote 435: Cologne water.

A perfumed water first
made at the city of Cologne in Germany, from which it took its name.]

[Footnote
436: Poland.

This kingdom of Europe was, in the eighteenth
century, taken possession of and divided among its powerful neighbors,
Russia, Prussia, and Austria.]

[Footnote 437: Philhellene.

Friend of Greece.]

[Footnote 438: As Heaven and Earth are fairer far, etc. This passage
is quoted from Book II. of Keats' Hyperion.]

[Footnote 439: Waverley.

The Waverley novels, a name applied to all of Scott's novels from
Waverley, the title of the first one.]

[Footnote 440: Robin Hood.

An English outlaw and
popular hero, the subject of many ballads.]

[Footnote 441: Minerva.

In Roman mythology, the goddess of wisdom corresponding to the Greek
Pallas-Athene.]

[Footnote 442: Juno.

In Roman mythology, the wife of the supreme god
Jupiter.]

[Footnote 443: Polymnia.

In Greek mythology, one of the nine
muses who presided over sacred poetry; the name is more usually written
Polyhymia.]

[Footnote 444: Delphic Sibyl.

In ancient
mythology, the Sibyls were certain women who possessed the power of prophecy.
One of these who made her abode at Delphi in Greece was called the
Delphian, or Delphic, sibyl.]

[Footnote 445: Hafiz.

A Persian poet of the fourteenth century.]

[Footnote 446: Firdousi.

A Persian poet of the tenth
century.]

[Footnote 447: She was an elemental force, etc. Of this passage Oliver
Wendell Holmes said that Emerson "speaks of woman in language that
seems to pant for rhythm and rhyme."]

[Footnote 448: Byzantine.

An ornate style of architecture developed
in the fourth and fifth centuries, marked especially by its use of
gold and color.]

[Footnote 449: Golden Book.

In a book,
called "the Golden Book," were recorded the names of all the children of Venetian
noblemen.]

[Footnote 450: Schiraz.

A province of Persia
famous especially for its roses, wine, and nightingales, and described
by the poets as a place of ideal beauty.]

[Footnote 451: Osman.

The name given by Emerson in his journal and essays to his ideal
man, one subject to the same conditions as himself.]

[Footnote 452:
Koran.

 Thus, roughly described, the theme
may look like the undigested horrors of Lust's Dominion, of The Insatiate Countess, and of
The Revenger's Tragedy. It is, however, poles asunder from them. The girl, with her southern
recklessness of anything but her immediate desires, and her southern indifference to deceiving
the very man she loves, is sufficiently remarkable, as she stands out of the canvas. But De
Flores,--the broken gentleman, reduced to the position of a mere dependant, the libertine whose
want of personal comeliness increases his mistress's contempt for him, the murderer double
and treble dyed, as audacious as he is treacherous, and as cool and ready as he is fiery in
passion,--is a study worthy to be classed at once with Iago, and inferior only to Iago in their
class. The several touches with which these two characters and their situations are brought
out are as Shakesperian as their conception, and the whole of that part of the play in which
they figure is one of the most wonderful triumphs of English or of any drama. Even the change
of manners and a bold word or two here and there, may not prevent me from giving the latter
part of the central scene:--

    Beat. "Why 'tis impossible thou canst be so wicked,
            Or shelter such a cunning cruelty,
            To make his death the murderer of my honour!
            Thy language is so bold and vicious,
            I cannot see which way I can forgive it
            With any modesty.

    De F. Pish![50] you forget yourself:
            A woman dipped in blood, and talk of modesty!

    Beat. O misery of sin! would I'd been bound
            Perpetually unto my living hate
            In that Pisacquo, than to hear[51] these words.
            Think but upon the distance that creation
            Set 'twixt thy blood and mine, and keep thee there.

    De F. Look but unto your conscience, read me there;
            'Tis a true book, you'll find me there your equal:
            Pish! fly not to your birth, but settle you
            In what the act has made you; you're no more now.
            You must forget your parentage to me;
            You are the deed's creature;[52] by that name
            You lost your first condition, and I shall urge[53] you
            As peace and innocency has turn'd you out,
            And made you one with me.

    Beat. With thee, foul villain!

    De F. Yes, my fair murderess: do you urge me?
            Though thou writ'st maid, thou whore in thine affection!
            'Twas changed from thy first love, and that's a kind
            Of whoredom in thy heart: and he's changed now
            To bring thy second on, thy Alsemero,
            Whom by all sweets that ever darkness tasted
            If I enjoy thee not, thou ne'er enjoyest!
            I'll blast the hopes and joys of marriage,
            I'll confess all; my life I rate at nothing.

    Beat. De Flores!

    De F. I shall rest from all (lover's)[54] plagues then,
            I live in pain now; that [love] shooting eye
            Will burn my heart to cinders.

    Beat. O sir, hear me!

    De F. She that in life and love refuses me,
            In death and shame my partner she shall be.

    Beat. (kneeling). Stay, hear me once for all: I make thee master
            Of all the wealth I have in gold and jewels;
            Let me go poor unto my bed with honour
            And I am rich in all things.

    De F. Let this silence thee;
            The wealth of all Valencia shall not buy
            My pleasure from me.
            Can you weep Fate from its determined purpose?
            So soon may you weep me.

    Beat. Vengeance begins;
            Murder, I see, is followed by more sins:
            Was my creation in the womb so curst
            It must engender with a viper first?

    De F. (raising her). Come, rise and shroud your blushes in my
                  bosom,
            Silence is one of pleasure's best receipts.
            Thy peace is wrought for ever in this yielding.
            'Las, how the turtle pants! thou'lt love anon
            What thou so fear'st and faint'st to venture on."

[50] In orig. "Push," cf. "Tush."

[51] Rather than hear.

[52] A trisyllable, as in strictness it ought to be.

[53] = "claim."

[54] This omission and the substitution in the next line are due to Dyce, and may be called
certissima emendatio.

Two other remarkable plays of Middleton's fall with some differences under the same second
division of his works. These are The Witch and Women Beware Women. Except for the inevitable
and rather attractive comparison with Macbeth, The Witch is hardly interesting. It consists
of three different sets of scenes most inartistically blended,--an awkward and ineffective
variation on the story of Alboin, Rosmunda and the skull for a serious main plot, some clumsy
and rather unsavoury comic or tragi-comic interludes, and the witch scenes. The two first are
very nearly worthless; the third is intrinsically, though far below Macbeth, interesting enough
and indirectly more interesting because of the questions which have been started, as to the
indebtedness of the two poets to each other. The best opinion seems to be that Shakespere most
certainly did not copy Middleton, nor (a strange fancy of some) did he collaborate with Middleton,
and that the most probable thing is that both borrowed their names, and some details from Reginald
Scot's Discovery of Witchcraft. Women Beware Women on the other hand is one of Middleton's
finest works, inferior only to The Changeling in parts, and far superior to it as a whole.
The temptation of Bianca, the newly-married wife, by the duke's instrument, a cunning and shameless
woman, is the title-theme, and in this part again Middleton's Shakesperian verisimilitude and
certainty of touch appear. The end of the play is something marred by a slaughter more wholesale
even than that of Hamlet, and by no means so well justified. Lastly, A Fair Quarrel must be
mentioned, because of the very high praise which it has received from Lamb and others. This
praise has been directed chiefly to the situation of the quarrel between Captain Ager and his
friend, turning on a question (the point of family honour), finely but perhaps a little tediously
argued. The comic scenes, however, which are probably Rowley's, are in his best vein of bustling
swagger.

I have said that Middleton, as it seems to me, has not been fully estimated. It is fortunately
impossible to say the same of Webster, and the reasons of the difference are instructive. Middleton's
great fault is that he never took trouble enough about his work. A little trouble would have
made The Changeling or Women Beware Women, or even The Spanish Gipsy, worthy to rank with all
but Shakespere's very masterpieces. Webster also was a collaborator, apparently an industrious
one; but he never seems to have taken his work lightly. He had, moreover, that incommunicable
gift of the highest poetry in scattered phrases which, as far as we can see, Middleton had
not. Next to nothing is known of him. He may have been parish clerk of St. Andrew's, Holborn;
but the authority is very late, and the commentators seemed to have jumped at it to explain
Webster's fancy for details of death and burial--a cause and effect not sufficiently proportioned.
Mr. Dyce has spent much trouble in proving that he could not have been the author of some Puritan
tracts published a full generation after the date of his masterpieces. Heywood tells us that
he was generally called "Jack," a not uncommon thing when men are christened John. He himself
has left us a few very sententiously worded prefaces which do not argue great critical taste.
We know from the usual sources (Henslowe's Diaries) that he was a working furnisher of plays,
and from many rather dubious title-pages we suppose or know some of the plays he worked at.
Northward Ho! Westward Ho! and Sir John Wyatt are pieces of dramatic journalism in which he
seems to have helped Dekker. He adapted, with additions, Marston's Malcontent, which is, in
a crude way, very much in his own vein: he contributed (according to rather late authority)
some charming scenes (elegantly extracted, on a hint of Mr. Gosse's, by a recent editor) to
A Cure for a Cuckold, one of Rowley's characteristic and not ungenial botches of humour-comedy;
he wrote a bad pageant or two, and some miscellaneous verses. But we know nothing of his life
or death, and his fame rests on four plays, in which no other writer is either known or even
hinted to have had a hand, and which are in different ways of the first order of interest,
if not invariably of the first order of merit. These are The Duchess of Malfi, The White Devil,
The Devil's Law Case, and Appius and Virginia.

Of Appius and Virginia the best thing to be said is to borrow Sainte-Beuve's happy description
of Molière's Don Garcie de Navarre, and to call it an essai pale et noble. Webster is sometimes
very close to Shakespere; but to read Appius and Virginia, and then to read Julius Cæsar or
Coriolanus, is to appreciate, in perhaps the most striking way possible, the universality which
all good judges from Dryden downwards have recognised in the prince of literature. Webster,
though he was evidently a good scholar, and even makes some parade of scholarship, was a Romantic
to the core, and was all abroad in these classical measures. The Devil's Law Case sins in the
opposite way, being hopelessly undigested, destitute of any central interest, and, despite
fine passages, a mere "salmagundi." The heart and soul of all men being one, this bitterness of
His and Mine ceases. His is mine. I am my brother, and my brother is me. If I feel overshadowed
and outdone by great neighbors, I can yet love; I can still receive; and he that loveth maketh
his own the grandeur he loves. Thereby I make the discovery that my brother is my guardian, acting
for me with the friendliest designs, and the estate I so admired and
envied is my own. It is the nature of the soul to appropriate all things.
Jesus[142] and Shakespeare are fragments of the soul, and by love
I conquer and incorporate them in my own conscious domain.

His[143] virtue,--is not that mine? His wit,--if it cannot be made
mine, it is not wit.

Such, also, is the natural history of calamity. The changes which
break up at short intervals the prosperity of men are advertisements
of a nature whose law is growth. Every soul is by this intrinsic
necessity quitting its whole system of things, its friends, and home,
and laws, and faith, as the shellfish crawls out of its beautiful
but stony case, because it no longer admits of its growth, and slowly
forms a new house.

In proportion to the vigor of the individual, these revolutions are frequent,
until in some happier mind they are incessant, and all worldly relations hang
very loosely about him, becoming, as it were, a transparent fluid membrane
through which the living form is seen, and not, as in most men, an
indurated heterogeneous fabric of many dates, and of no settled character,
in which the man is imprisoned.

Then there can be enlargement, and the man of to-day scarcely recognizes the man of yesterday. And such
should be the outward biography of man in time, a putting off of
dead circumstances day by day, as he renews his raiment day by day.

But to us, in our lapsed estate, resting, not advancing, resisting, not coöperating with the divine expansion,
this growth comes by shocks.

We cannot part with our friend. We cannot let our angels go. We do not see that they only go out,
that archangels may come in.

We are idolaters of the old. We do not believe in the riches of the
soul, in its proper eternity and omnipresence.

We do not
believe there is any force in to-day to rival or recreate that beautiful yesterday. We linger in the
ruins of the old tent, where once we had bread and shelter and organs, nor believe that the spirit can
feed, cover, and nerve us again.

We cannot again find aught so dear, so sweet, so graceful. But we sit and weep in vain. The voice of
the Almighty saith, "Up and onward forevermore!" We cannot stay amid
the ruins.

Neither
will we rely on the new; and so we walk ever with reverted eyes, like those
monsters who look backwards.

And yet the compensations of calamity are made apparent to the understanding also, after long intervals
of time. A fever, a mutilation, a cruel disappointment, a loss of wealth, a loss of friends, seems at the
moment unpaid loss, and unpayable. But the sure years reveal the deep remedial force that underlies
all facts. The death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover, which seemed
nothing but privation, somewhat later assumes the aspect of a guide or
genius; for it commonly operates revolutions in our way of life, terminates
an epoch of infancy or of youth which was waiting to be closed, breaks
up a wonted occupation, or a household, or style of living, and allows
the formation of new ones more friendly to the growth of character.

     
            
            It permits or constrains the formation of new acquaintances,
            and the reception of new influences that prove of the
            first importance to the next years; and the man
            or woman who would have remained a sunny garden
            flower, with no room for its roots and too much sunshine
            
            for its head, by the falling of the walls and the neglect of the
gardener, is made the banyan[144] of the forest, yielding shade and
fruit to wide neighborhoods of men.

    

     
            
            
            

    

SELF-RELIANCE

"Ne te quæsiveris extra."[145]

     "Man is his own star; and the soul that can Render an honest and a perfect
man, Commands all light, all influence, all fate; Nothing to him
falls early or too late.

Our acts our angels are, or good or ill, Our fatal shadows that walk
by us still."[146]

                

            
            * * * * *
            
            Cast the bantling on the rocks,
            Suckle him with the she-wolf's teat; Wintered
            with the hawk and fox, Power and speed be hands
            and feet.[147]
            
            I read the other day some verses written by an eminent
            painter which were original and not conventional.
            
            The soul always hears an admonition
            in such lines, let the subject be what it may.
            The sentiment they instill is of more value than
            
            any thought they may contain. To believe your own
            thought, to believe that what is true for you in your private heart
is true for all men,--that is genius.[148] Speak your latent conviction,
and it shall be the universal sense;[149] for the inmost in due time
becomes the outmost,--and our first thought is rendered back to us
by the trumpets of the Last Judgment.

Familiar as the voice of the mind is to each, the highest merit we
ascribe to Moses, Plato,[150] and Milton[151] is, that they set at
naught books and traditions, and spoke not what men, but what they
thought.

                A man should learn to detect and watch that gleam of light which flashes
across his mind from within, more than the luster of the firmament of bards and
sages. Yet he dismisses without notice his thought, because it is
his.

    In every work of genius we recognize our own rejected
            thoughts:[152] they come back to us with
            a certain alienated majesty. Great works of art have no more affecting
lesson for us than this. They teach us to abide by our spontaneous impression
with good-humored inflexibility then most when[153] the whole cry of voices
is on the other side. Else, to-morrow a stranger will say with masterly
good sense precisely what we have thought and felt all the time,
and we shall be forced to take with shame our own opinion from another.

There
is a time in every man's education when he arrives at the conviction
that envy is ignorance; that imitation is suicide;[154] that he must
take himself for better, for worse, as his portion; that though the
wide universe is full of good, no kernel of nourishing corn can come
to him but through his toil bestowed on that plot of ground which
is given to him to till.

                

The power which resides in him is new in nature, and none but
he knows what that is which he can do, nor does he know until he
has tried.

Not
for nothing one face, one character, one fact, makes much impression
on him, and another none.

            
            
            This sculpture in the memory is not
            without preëstablished harmony.
            
The eye was placed where one ray should fall, that it might testify of
that particular ray.

                We but half express ourselves,[155] and are ashamed of that
                  divine idea which each of us represents. It may be safely
                  trusted as proportionate and of good issues, so it be faithfully imparted,
but God will not have his work made manifest by cowards. A man is relieved
and gay when he has put his heart into his work and done his best;
but what he has said or done otherwise shall give him no peace.

            
            
            
            
            It is a deliverance which does not deliver. In
            the attempt his genius deserts him; no muse befriends;
            no invention, no hope.

            
            Trust thyself:[156] every heart vibrates to that iron string.
            Accept the place the divine providence has found
            for you, the society of your contemporaries, the connection of events.

Great men have always done so, and confided themselves childlike to the
genius of their age, betraying their perception that the absolutely
trustworthy was seated at their heart, working through their hands,
predominating in all their being.

                

And we are now men, and must accept in the highest mind the same transcendent
destiny; and not minors and invalids in a protected corner, not cowards
fleeing before a revolution, but guides, redeemers, and benefactors,
obeying the Almighty effort, and advancing on Chaos[157] and the
Dark.

What pretty oracles nature yields us on this text, in the face and behavior
of children, babes, and even brutes!

That
divided and rebel mind, that distrust of a sentiment because our arithmetic
has computed the strength and means opposed to our purpose, these[158]
have not.

            
            
            Their mind being whole, their eye is as yet unconquered, and when
            we look in their faces we are disconcerted. Infancy
            conforms to nobody: all conform to it,
            so that one babe commonly makes four or five[159] out of the adults who
prattle and play to it. So God has armed youth and puberty and manhood no
less with its own piquancy and charm, and made it enviable and gracious
and its claims not to be put by, if it will stand by itself.

                Do not think the youth has no force, because he cannot speak to you
and me. Hark! in the next room his voice is sufficiently clear and emphatic.
It seems he knows how to speak to his contemporaries. Bashful or bold, then,
he will know how to make us seniors very unnecessary.

    
    
    
    
    
    The nonchalance[160] of boys who are sure of a dinner,
    and would disdain as much as a lord to
    do or say aught to conciliate one, is the
    healthy attitude of human nature. A boy is in the parlor what the
pit is in the playhouse;[161] independent, irresponsible, looking out from
his corner on such people and facts as pass by, he tries and sentences them
on their merits, in the swift, summary way of boys, as good, bad,
interesting, silly, eloquent, troublesome.

                

He cumbers himself never about consequences about interests; he gives an independent, genuine verdict.
You must court him: he does not court you. But the man is, as it were, clapped
into jail by his consciousness.

As soon as he has once acted or spoken with éclat[162] he is a committed person, watched by the
sympathy or the hatred of hundreds, whose affections must now enter
into his account.

There is no Lethe[163] for this. Ah, that he could pass again into his neutrality! Who[164] can
thus avoid all pledges, and having observed, observe again from the same unaffected, unbiased, unbribable,
unaffrighted innocence, must always be formidable.

He would utter opinions on all passing affairs, which being seen to be not private, but necessary, would
sink like darts into the ear of men, and put them in fear.

These are the voices which we hear in solitude, but they grow faint
and inaudible as we enter into the world.

Society everywhere is in conspiracy against the manhood of every one of its members. Society is
a joint-stock company, in which the members agree, for the better securing of his bread to each
shareholder, to surrender the liberty and culture of the eater.

The virtue in most request is conformity. Self-reliance is its aversion. It loves
not realities and creators, but names and customs.

Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist.[165] He who would gather
immortal palms must not be hindered by the name of goodness, but must
explore if it be goodness.[166] Nothing is at last sacred but the
integrity of your own mind.

Absolve you to yourself, and you shall have the suffrage[167] of the world. I remember an answer
which when quite young I was prompted to make to a valued adviser, who was wont to importune me with
the dear old doctrines of the church. On my saying, What have I to do with the sacredness of
traditions, if I live wholly from within? my friend suggested: "But these impulses may be from below,
not from above." I replied: "They do not seem to me to be such; but if I am
the Devil's child, I will live then from the Devil." No law can be
sacred to me but that of my nature. Good and bad are but names very
readily transferable to that or this;[168] the only right is what is
after my constitution, the only wrong what is against it. A man is to
carry himself in the presence of all opposition, as if everything
were titular and ephemeral but he.

I am ashamed to think how easily we capitulate to badges and names,
to large societies and dead institutions.

Every
decent and well-spoken individual affects and sways me more than is right. I ought to go upright
and vital, and speak the rude truth in all ways. If malice and vanity wear the coat of philanthropy,
shall that pass? If an angry bigot assumes this bountiful cause of Abolition, and comes to me
with his last news from Barbadoes,[169] why should I not say to him: "Go love thy infant; love thy wood-chopper:
be good-natured and modest: have that grace; and never varnish your hard, uncharitable ambition with
this incredible tenderness for black folk a thousand miles off.

Thy love afar is spite at home." Rough and graceless would be such greeting, but truth is handsomer than the
affectation of love.

    Your goodness must have some edge to it,--else it is none.

The doctrine of hatred must be preached as the counteraction of the doctrine of love when that pules
and whines. I shun father and mother and wife and brother, when my
genius calls me.

I would write on the lintels of the door-post, Whim.[170] I hope it is somewhat better than whim at last,
but we cannot spend the day in explanation.

Expect me not to show cause why I seek or why I exclude company. Then, again, do not tell me, as a
good man did to-day, of my obligation to put all poor men in good
situations.

Are
they my poor? I tell thee, thou foolish philanthropist, that I grudge the dollar, the dime, the
cent, I give to such men as do not belong to me and to whom I do not belong. There
is a class of persons to whom by all spiritual affinity I am bought
and sold; for them I will go to prison, if need be; but your miscellaneous
popular charities; the education at college of fools; the building
of meeting-houses to the vain end to which many now stand; alms to
sots; and the thousand-fold Relief Societies;--though I confess with
shame I sometimes succumb and give the dollar, it is a wicked dollar
which by and by I shall have the manhood to withhold.

       
               
               
               
               Virtues are, in the popular estimate, rather the exception
               than the rule. There is the man and his virtues.
               Men do what is called a good action, as some piece of courage or
charity, much as they would pay a fine in expiation of daily non-appearance
on parade.

Their
works are done as an apology or extenuation of their living in the world,--as
invalids and the insane pay a high board. Their virtues are penances.
I do not wish to expiate, but to live.

    
               
               My life is for itself and not for a spectacle.
               I much prefer that it should be of a lower
               strain, so it be genuine and equal, than that
               it should be glittering and unsteady. I wish
               it to be sound and sweet, and not to need diet
               and bleeding.[171] I ask primary evidence
               that you are a man, and refuse this appeal from the man to his
               actions. I know that for myself it makes no difference
               whether I do or forbear those actions which are reckoned excellent.
               I cannot consent to pay for a privilege
               where I have intrinsic right. Few and mean
               as my gifts may be, I actually am, and do
               not need for my own assurance or the assurance of my fellows any secondary
testimony.

What I must do is all that concerns me, not what the people think. This
rule, equally arduous in actual and in intellectual life, may serve
for the whole distinction between greatness and meanness.

It is the harder, because you will always find those who think they know what is your duty better
than you know it. It is easy in the world to live after the world's opinion; it is easy in solitude
to live after our own; but the great man is he who in the midst of
the crowd keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of solitude.[172]

The
objection to conforming to usages that have become dead to you is,
that it scatters your force.

It
loses your time and blurs the impression of your character. If you
maintain a dead church, contribute to a dead Bible-society, vote
with a great party either for the government or against it, spread
your table like base housekeepers,--under all these screens I have
difficulty to detect the precise[173] man you are.

And,
of course, so much force is withdrawn from your proper life.

But do your work, and I shall know you.[174] Do your work, and you
shall reinforce yourself. A man must consider what a blindman's-buff is
this game of conformity. If I know your sect, I anticipate your argument.
I hear a preacher announce for his text and topic the expediency
of one of the institutions of his church.

    
          Do I not know beforehand that not possibly can
          he say a new and
          
          spontaneous word? Do I not know that, with[175] all
          this ostentation of examining the grounds of
          the institution, he will do no such thing? Do
          I not know that he is pledged to himself not to look
          but at one side,--the permitted side, not as a man,
          but as a parish minister? He is a retained
          attorney, and these airs of the bench[176]
          are the emptiest affectation. Well, most men have bound their eyes
with one or another handkerchief,[177] and attached themselves to some
one of these communities of opinion.[178] This conformity makes them
not false in a few particulars, authors of a few lies, but false in
all particulars.

    
    

Their every truth is not quite true. Their two is not the real two, their four not the real four; so
that every word they say chagrins us, and we know not where to begin
to set them right. Meantime nature is not slow to equip us in the prison-uniform
of the party to which we adhere. We come to wear one cut of face and figure,
and acquire by degrees the gentlest asinine expression. There is
a mortifying experience in particular which does not fail to wreak
itself also in the general history; I mean "the foolish face of praise,"
the forced smile which we put on in company where we do not feel at
ease in answer to conversation which does not interest us.

The muscles, not spontaneously moved, but moved by a low usurping willfulness, grow tight about the
outline of the face with the most disagreeable sensation.

For nonconformity the world whips you with its displeasure.[179] And
therefore a man must know how to estimate a sour face.

The bystanders look askance on him in the public street or in the
friend's parlor.

If this
aversation had its origin in contempt and resistance like his own, he might well go home with a sad countenance;
but the sour faces of the multitude, like their sweet faces, have no deep cause, but are put on and off
as the wind blows and a newspaper directs.[180] Yet is the discontent
of the multitude more formidable than that of the senate and the college.

It is easy enough
for a firm man who knows the world to brook the rage of the cultivated classes. Their rage is
decorous and prudent, for they are timid as being very vulnerable
themselves.

But when to their feminine rage the indignation of the people is added,
when the ignorant and the poor are aroused, when the unintelligent
brute force that lies at the bottom of society is made to growl and
mow, it needs the habit of magnanimity and religion to treat it godlike
as a trifle of no concernment.

The other terror[181] that scares us from self-trust is our consistency;[182] a reverence
for our past act or word, because the eyes of others have no other data
for computing our orbit[183] than our past acts, and we are loth
to disappoint them.

But why should you keep your head over your shoulder?

Why drag about this corpse of your memory, lest you contradict somewhat[184] you have stated in this or that
public place? Suppose you should contradict yourself; what then? It seems
to be a rule of wisdom never to rely on your memory alone, scarcely
even in acts of pure memory, but to bring the past for judgment into
the thousand-eyed present, and live ever in a new day. In your metaphysics
you have denied personality to the Deity; yet when the devout motions
of the soul come, yield to them heart and life, though they should
clothe God with shape and color.

Leave your theory, as Joseph his coat in the hand of the harlot, and flee.[185]

A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored by
little statesmen and philosophers and divines.

With consistency a great soul has simply nothing to do.

He may as well concern himself with the shadow on the wall. Speak what you think now in hard words, and
to-morrow speak what to-morrow thinks in hard words again, though it contradict everything you said to-day.--"Ah,
so you shall be sure to be misunderstood."--Is it so bad, then, to be misunderstood? Pythagoras[186]
was misunderstood, and Socrates,[187] and Jesus, and Luther,[188]
and Copernicus,[189] and Galileo,[190] and Newton,[191] and every
pure and wise spirit that ever took flesh.

To be great is to be misunderstood.

I suppose no man can violate his nature.

All the sallies of his will are rounded in by the law of his being,
as the inequalities of Andes[192] and Himmaleh[193] are insignificant
in the curve of the sphere.

Nor does it matter how you gauge and try him. A character is like an acrostic or Alexandrian stanza;[194]--read
it forward, backward, or across, it still spells the same thing.

In this pleasing, contrite wood-life which God allows me, let me record day by day my honest thought without
prospect or retrospect, and, I cannot doubt, it will be found symmetrical, though I mean it not, and see
it not. My book should smell of pines and resound with the hum of insects. The swallow over my window should interweave
that thread or straw he carries in his bill into my web also.

We pass for what we are. Character teaches above our wills. Men imagine that they communicate their virtue
or vice only by overt actions, and do not see that virtue or vice
emit a breath every moment.

There will be an agreement in whatever variety of actions, so they be each honest and natural in their
hour. For of one will, the actions will be harmonious, however unlike they seem. These varieties are lost sight
of at a little distance, at a little height of thought. One tendency
unites them all.

The voyage of the best ship is a zigzag line of a hundred tacks.[195] See
the line from a sufficient distance, and it straightens itself to
the average tendency. Your genuine action will explain itself, and
will explain your other genuine actions. Your conformity explains
nothing. Act singly, and what you have already done singly will justify
you now. Greatness appeals to the future. If I can be firm enough to-day
to do right, and scorn eyes,[196] I must have done so much right before
as to defend me now. Be it how it will, do right now. Always scorn
appearances, and you always may.

The force of
character is cumulative. All the foregone days of virtue work their
health into this. What makes the majesty of the heroes of the senate and the
field, which so fills the imagination? The consciousness of a train of
great days and victories behind. They shed an united light on the
advancing actor. He is attended as by a visible escort of angels. That is
it which throws thunder into Chatham's[197] voice, and dignity into
Washington's port, and America into Adams's[198] eye. Honor is venerable
to us because it is no ephemeris. It is always ancient virtue. We worship
it to-day because it is not of to-day. We love it and pay it homage, because
it is not a trap for our love and homage, but is self-dependent,
self-derived, and therefore of an old immaculate pedigree, even if
shown in a young person.

I hope in these days we have heard the last of conformity and consistency.
Let the words be gazetted and ridiculous henceforward. Instead of the
gong for dinner, let us hear a whistle from the Spartan[199] fife. Let
us never bow and apologize more. A great man is coming to eat at my house.
I do not wish to please him; I wish that he should wish to please me.

I will stand here for humanity, and though
I would make it kind, I would make it true. Let us affront and reprimand
the smooth mediocrity and squalid contentment of the times, and hurl
in the face of custom, and trade, and office, the fact which is the upshot of
all history, that there is a great responsible Thinker and Actor
working wherever a man works; that a true man belongs to no other time
or place, but is the center of things.
 But the effect, as a whole, is marred by a profusion of almost
all the worst faults of the drama of the whole period from Peele to Davenant. The incoherence
and improbability of the action, the reckless, inartistic, butcherly prodigality of blood and
horrors, and the absence of any kind of redeeming interest of contrasting light to all the
shade, though very characteristic of a class, and that no small one, of Elizabethan drama,
cannot be said to be otherwise than characteristic of its faults. As the best example (others
are The Insatiate Countess, Chettle's Hoffmann, Lust's Dominion, and the singular production
which Mr. Bullen has printed as The Distracted Emperor) it is very well worth reading, and
contrasting with the really great plays of the same class, such as The Jew of Malta and Titus
Andronicus, where, though the horrors are still overdone, yet genius has given them a kind
of passport. But intrinsically it is mere nightmare.

Of a very different temper and complexion is the work of John Day, who may have been a Cambridge
graduate, and was certainly a student of Gonville and Caius, as he describes himself on the
title-page of some of his plays and of a prose tract printed by Mr. Bullen. He appears to have
been dead in 1640, and the chief thing positively known about him is that between the beginning
of 1598 and 1608 he collaborated in the surprising number of twenty-one plays (all but The
Blind Beggar of Bethnal Green unprinted) with Haughton, Chettle, Dekker, and others. The Parliament
of Bees, his most famous and last printed work, is of a very uncommon kind in English--being
a sort of dramatic allegory, touched with a singularly graceful and fanciful spirit. It is
indeed rather a masque than a play, and consists, after the opening Parliament held by the
Master, or Viceroy Bee (quaintly appearing in the original, which may have been printed in
1607, though no copy seems now discoverable earlier than 1641, as "Mr. Bee"), of a series of
characters or sketches of Bee-vices and virtues, which are very human. The termination, which
contains much the best poetry in the piece, and much the best that Day ever wrote, introduces
King Oberon giving judgment on the Bees from "Mr. Bee" downwards and banishing offenders. Here
occurs the often-quoted passage, beginning--

    "And whither must these flies be sent?"

and including the fine speech of Oberon--

    "You should have cried so in your youth."

It should be observed that both in this play and elsewhere passages occur in Day which seem
to have been borrowed or stolen from or by other writers, such as Dekker and Samuel Rowley;
but a charitable and not improbable explanation of this has been found in the known fact of
his extensive and intricate collaboration. The Isle of Gulls, suggested in a way by the Arcadia,
though in general plan also fantastic and, to use a much abused but decidedly convenient word,
pastoral, has a certain flavour of the comedy of manners and of contemporary satire. Then we
have the quaint piece of Humour out of Breath, a kind of study in the for once conjoined schools
of Shakespere and Jonson--an attempt at a combination of humorous and romantic comedy with
some pathetic writing, as here:--

    "[O] Early sorrow art got up so soon?
    What, ere the sun ascendeth in the east?
    O what an early waker art thou grown!
    But cease discourse and close unto thy work.
    Under this drooping myrtle will I sit,
    And work awhile upon my corded net;
    And as I work, record my sorrows past,
    Asking old Time how long my woes shall last.
    And first--but stay! alas! what do I see?
    Moist gum-like tears drop from this mournful tree;
    And see, it sticks like birdlime; 'twill not part,
    Sorrow is even such birdlime at my heart.
    Alas! poor tree, dost thou want company?
    Thou dost, I see't, and I will weep with thee;
    Thy sorrows make me dumb, and so shall mine,
    It shall be tongueless, and so seem like thine.
    Thus will I rest my head unto thy bark,
    Whilst my sighs ease my sorrows."

Something the same may be said of Law Tricks, or Who would have Thought it? which has, however,
in the character of the Count Horatio, a touch of tragedy. Another piece of Day's is in quite
a different vein, being an account in dramatised form of the adventures of the three brothers
Shirley--a kind of play which, from Sir Thomas Stukeley downwards, appears to have been a very
favourite one with Elizabethan audiences, though (as might indeed be expected) it was seldom
executed in a very successful manner. Lastly, or first, if chronological order is taken, comes
The Blind Beggar of Bethnal Green, written by Day in conjunction with Chettle, and ranging
itself with the half historical, half romantic plays which were, as has been pointed out above,
favourites with the first school of dramatists. It seems to have been very popular, and had
a second and third part, not now extant, but is by no means as much to modern taste as some
of the others. Indeed both Day and Tourneur, despite the dates of their pieces, which, as far
as known, are later, belong in more ways than one to the early school, and show how its traditions
survived alongside of the more perfect work of the greater masters. Day himself is certainly
not a great master--indeed masterpieces would have been impossible, if they would not have
been superfluous, in the brisk purveying of theatrical matter which, from Henslowe's accounts,
we see that he kept up. He had fancy, a good deal of wit, considerable versatility, and something
of the same sunshiny temper, with less of the pathos, that has been noticed in Heywood. If
he wrote The Maid's Metamorphosis (also ascribed conjecturally to Lyly), he did something less
dramatically good, but perhaps poetically better, than his other work; and if, as has sometimes
been thought,[56] The Return from Parnassus is his, he is richer still. But even without these,
his existing poetical baggage (the least part of the work which we know he accomplished) is
more than respectable, and shows more perhaps than that of any other distinctly minor writer
the vast amount of loose talent--of miscellaneous inspiration--which was afloat in the air
of his time.

[56] I agree with Professor Hales in thinking it very improbable.

CHAPTER VIII

THE SCHOOL OF SPENSER AND THE TRIBE OF BEN

The reign of James I. is not, in mere poetry, quite such a brilliant period as it is in drama.
The full influence of Donne and of Jonson, which combined to produce the exquisite if not extraordinarily
strong school of Caroline poets, did not work in it. Of its own bards the best, such as Jonson
himself and Drayton, were survivals of the Elizabethan school, and have accordingly been anticipated
here. Nevertheless, there were not a few verse-writers of mark who may be most conveniently
assigned to this time, though, as was the case with so many of their contemporaries, they had
sometimes produced work of note before the accession of the British Solomon, and sometimes
continued to produce it until far into the reign of his son. Especially there are some of much
mark who fall to be noticed here, because their work is not, strictly speaking, of the schools
that flourished under Elizabeth, or of the schools that flourished under Charles. We shall
not find anything of the first interest in them; yet in one way or in another there were few
of them who were unworthy to be contemporaries of Shakespere.

Joshua Sylvester is one of those men of letters whom accident rather than property seems to
have made absurd. He has existed in English literature chiefly as an Englisher of the Frenchman
Du Bartas, whom an even greater ignorance has chosen to regard as something grotesque. Du Bartas
is one of the grandest, if also one of the most unequal, poets of Europe, and Joshua Sylvester,
his translator, succeeded in keeping some of his grandeur if he even added to his inequality.
His original work is insignificant compared with his translation; but it is penetrated with
the same qualities. He seems to have been a little deficient in humour, and his portrait--crowned
with a singularly stiff laurel, throated with a stiffer ruff, and clothed, as to the bust,
with a doublet so stiff that it looks like textile armour--is not calculated to diminish the
popular ridicule. Yet is Sylvester not at all ridiculous. He was certainly a Kentish man, and
probably the son of a London clothier. His birth is guessed, on good grounds, at 1563; and
he was educated at Southampton under the famous refugee, Saravia, to whom he owed that proficiency
in French which made or helped his fame. He did not, despite his wishes, go to either university,
and was put to trade. In this he does not seem to have been prosperous; perhaps he gave too
much time to translation. He was probably patronised by James, and by Prince Henry certainly.
In the last years of his life he was resident secretary to the English company of Merchant
Venturers at Middleburgh, where he died on the 28th September 1618. He was not a fortunate
man, but his descendants seem to have flourished both in England, the West Indies and America.
As for his literary work, it requires no doubt a certain amount of good will to read it. It
is voluminous, even in the original part not very original, and constantly marred by that loquacity
which, especially in times of great inspiration, comes upon the uninspired or not very strongly
inspired. The point about Sylvester, as about so many others of his time, is that, unlike the
minor poets of our day and of some others, he has constant flashes--constant hardly separable,
but quite perceivable, scraps, which show how genially heated the brain of the nation was.
Nor should it be forgotten that his Du Bartas had a great effect for generations. The man of
pure science may regret that generations should have busied themselves about anything so thoroughly
unscientific; but with that point of view we are unconcerned. The important thing is that the
generations in question learnt from Sylvester to take a poetical interest in the natural world.

John Davies of Hereford, who must have been born at about the same time as Sylvester, and who
certainly died in the same year, is another curiosity of literature. He was only a writing-master,--a
professor of the curious, elaborate penmanship which is now quite dead,--and he seems at no
time to have been a man of wealth. But he was, in his vocation or otherwise, familiar with
very interesting people, both of the fashionable and the literary class. He succeeded, poor
as he was, in getting thrice married to ladies born; and, though he seems to have been something
of a coxcomb, he was apparently as little of a fool as coxcombry will consist with. His work
(of the most miscellaneous character and wholly in verse, though in subject as well as treatment
often better suiting prose) is voluminous, and he might have been wholly treated (as he has
already been referred to) with the verse pamphleteers, especially Rowlands, of an earlier chapter.
But fluent and unequal as his verse is--obviously the production of a man who had little better
to offer than journalism, but for whom the times did not provide the opening of a journalist--there
is a certain salt of wit in it which puts him above the mere pamphleteers. His epigrams (most
of which are contained in The Scourge of Folly, undated, like others of his books) are by no
means despicable; the Welsh ancestors, whom he did not fail to commemorate, seem to have endowed
him with some of that faculty for lampooning and "flyting" which distinguished the Celtic race.
That they are frequently lacking in point ought hardly to be objected to him; for the age had
construed the miscellaneous examples of Martial indulgently, and Jonson in his own generation,
and Herrick after him (two men with whom Davies cannot compare for a moment in general power),
are in their epigrams frequently as pointless and a good deal coarser. His variations on English
proverbs are also remarkable. He had a respectable vein of religious moralising, as the following
sonnet from Wit's Pilgrimage will show:--

    "When Will doth long to effect her own desires,
    She makes the Wit, as vassal to the will,
    To do what she, howe'er unright, requires,
    Which wit doth, though repiningly, fulfil.
    Yet, as well pleased (O languishing wit!)
    He seems to effect her pleasure willingly,
    And all his reasons to her reach doth fit;
    So like the world, gets love by flattery.
    That this is true a thousand witnesses,
    Impartial conscience, will directly prove;
    Then if we would not willingly transgress,
    Our will should swayed be by rules of love,
    Which holds the multitude of sins because
    Her sin morally to him his servants draws."

The defect of Davies, as of not a few of his contemporaries, is that, having the power of saying
things rememberable enough, he set himself to wrap them up and merge them in vast heaps of
things altogether unrememberable. His successors have too often resembled him only in the latter
part of his gift. His longer works (Mirum in Modum, Summa Totalis, Microcosmus, The Holy Rood,
Humours Heaven on Earth, are some of their eccentric titles) might move simple wonder if a
century which has welcomed The Course of Time, and Yesterday, To-day, and For Ever, not to
mention examples even more recent than these, had any great reason to throw stones at its forerunners.
But to deal with writers like Davies is a little difficult in a book which aims both at being
nothing if not critical, and at doing justice to the minor as well as to the major luminaries
of the time: while the difficulty is complicated by the necessity of not saying ditto to the
invaluable labourers who have reintroduced him and others like him to readers. I am myself
full of the most unfeigned gratitude to my friend Dr. Grosart, to Professor Arber, and to others,
for sparing students, whose time is the least disposable thing they have, visits to public
libraries or begging at rich men's doors for the sight of books. I should be very sorry both
as a student and as a lover of literature not to possess Davies, Breton, Sylvester, Quarles,
and the rest, and not to read them from time to time. But I cannot help warning those who are
not professed students of the subject that in such writers they have little good to seek; I
cannot help noting the difference between them and other writers of a very different order,
and above all I cannot help raising a mild protest against the encomiums which are sometimes
passed on them. Southey, in that nearly best of modern books unclassified, The Doctor, has
a story of a glover who kept no gloves that were not "Best." But when the facts came to be
narrowly inquired into, it was found that the ingenious tradesman had no less than five qualities--"Best,"
"Better than Best," "Better than better than Best," "Best of All," and the "Real Best." Such
language is a little delusive, and when I read the epithets of praise which are sometimes lavished,
not by the same persons, on Breton and Watson, I ask myself what we are to say of Spenser and
Shakespere.

Davies has no doubt also suffered from the fact that he had a contemporary of the same name
and surname, who was not only of higher rank, but of considerably greater powers. Sir John
Davies was a Wiltshire man of good family: his mother, Mary Bennet of Pyt-house, being still
represented by the Benett-Stanfords of Dorsetshire and Brighton. Born about 1569, he was a
member of the University of Oxford, and a Templar; but appears to have been anything but a
docile youth, so that both at Oxford and the Temple he came to blows with the authorities.
He seems, however, to have gone back to Oxford, and to have resided there till close of middle
life; some if not most of his poems dating thence. He entered Parliament in 1601, and after
figuring in the Opposition during Elizabeth's last years, was taken into favour, like others
in similar circumstances, by James. Immediately after the latter's accession Davies became
a law officer for Ireland, and did good and not unperilous service there. He was mainly resident
in Ireland for some thirteen years, producing during the time a valuable "Discovery of the
Causes of the Irish Discontent." For the last ten years of his life he seems to have practised
as serjeant-at-law in England, frequently serving as judge or commissioner of assize, and he
died in 1626. His poetical work consists chiefly of three things, all written before 1600.
These are Nosce Teipsum, or the immortality of the soul, in quatrains, and as light as the
unsuitableness of the subject to verse will allow; a singularly clever collection of acrostics
called Astraea, all making the name of Elizabetha Regina; and the Orchestra, or poem on dancing,
which has made his fame. Founded as it is on a mere conceit--the reduction of all natural phenomena
to a grave and regulated motion which the author calls dancing--it is one of the very best
poems of the school of Spenser, and in harmony of metre (the seven-lined stanza) and grace
of illustration is sometimes not too far behind Spenser himself. An extract from it may be
fitly followed by one of the acrostics of Astraea:--

    "As the victorious twins of Leda and Jove,
    (That taught the Spartans dancing on the sands
    Of swift Eurotas) dance in heaven above,
    Knit and united with eternal bands;
    Among the stars, their double image stands,
    Where both are carried with an equal pace,
    Together jumping in their turning race.

    "This is the net, wherein the sun's bright eye,
    Venus and Mars entangled did behold;
    For in this dance, their arms they so imply,
    As each doth seem the other to enfold.
    What if lewd wits another tale have told
    Of jealous Vulcan, and of iron chains!
    Yet this true sense that forgèd lie contains.

    "These various forms of dancing Love did frame,
    And besides these, a hundred millions more;
    And as he did invent, he taught the same:
    With goodly gesture, and with comely show,
    Now keeping state, now humbly honouring low.
    And ever for the persons and the place
    He taught most fit, and best according grace."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Each day of thine, sweet month of May,
    Love makes a solemn Holy Day.
    I will perform like duty;
    Since thou resemblest every way
    Astraea, Queen of Beauty.
    Both you, fresh beauties do partake,
    Either's aspect, doth summer make.
    Thoughts of young Love awaking,
    Hearts you both do cause to ache;
    And yet be pleased with aching.
    Right dear art thou, and so is She,
    Even like attractive sympathy
    Gains unto both, like dearness.
    I ween this made antiquity
    Name thee, sweet May of majesty,
    As being both like in clearness."

The chief direct followers of Spenser were, however, Giles and Phineas Fletcher, and William
Browne. The two first were, as has been said, the cousins of John Fletcher the dramatist, and
the sons of Dr. Giles Fletcher, the author of Licia. The exact dates and circumstances of their
lives are little known. Both were probably born between 1580 and 1590. Giles, though the younger
(?), died vicar of Alderton in Suffolk in 1623: Phineas, the elder (?), who was educated at
Eton and King's College, Cambridge (Giles was a member of Trinity College in the same university),
also took orders, and was for nearly thirty years incumbent of Hilgay-in-the-Fens, dying in 1650.

Giles's extant work is a poem in four cantos or parts, generally entitled Christ's Victory
and Triumph. He chose a curious and rather infelicitous variation on the Spenserian stanza
ababbccc, keeping the Alexandrine but missing the seventh line, with a lyrical interlude here
and there. The whole treatment is highly allegorical, and the lusciousness of Spenser is imitated
and overdone.

    "Upon a hilly bank her head she cast,
    On which the bower of Vain-delight was built,
    White and red roses for her face were placed,
    And for her tresses marigolds were spilt:
    Them broadly she displayed like flaming gilt,
    Till in the ocean the glad day were drowned:
    Then up again her yellow locks she wound,
    And with green fillets in their pretty cauls them bound.

    "What should I here depaint her lily hand,
    Her veins of violets, her ermine breast,
    Which there in orient colours living stand:
    Or how her gown with living leaves is drest,
    Or how her watchman, armed with boughy crest,
    A wall of prim hid in his bushes bears
    Shaking at every wind their leafy spears
    While she supinely sleeps, nor to be wakèd fears."

The Purple Island, Phineas Fletcher's chief work, is an allegorical poem of the human body,
written in a stanza different only from that of Christ's Victory in being of seven lines only,
the quintet of Giles being cut down to a regular elegiac quatrain. This is still far below
the Spenserian stanza, and the colour is inferior to that of Giles. Phineas follows Spenser's
manner, or rather his mannerisms, very closely indeed, and in detached passages not unsuccessfully,
as here, where the transition from Spenser to Milton is marked:--

    "The early morn lets out the peeping day,
    And strew'd his path with golden marigolds:
    The Moon grows wan, and stars fly all away.
    Whom Lucifer locks up in wonted folds
    Till light is quench'd, and Heaven in seas hath flung
    The headlong day: to th' hill the shepherds throng
    And Thirsil now began to end his task and song:

    "'Who now, alas! shall teach my humble vein,
    That never yet durst peep from covert glade,
    But softly learnt for fear to sigh and plain
    And vent her griefs to silent myrtle's shade?
    Who now shall teach to change my oaten quill
    For trumpet 'larms, or humble verses fill
    With graceful majesty, and lofty rising skill?

    "'Ah, thou dread Spirit! shed thy holy fire,
    Thy holy flame, into my frozen heart;
    Teach thou my creeping measures to aspire
    And swell in bigger notes, and higher art:
    Teach my low Muse thy fierce alarms to ring,
    And raise my soft strain to high thundering,
    Tune thou my lofty song; thy battles must I sing.

    "'Such as thou wert within the sacred breast
    Of that thrice famous poet, shepherd, king;
    And taught'st his heart to frame his cantos best
    Of all that e'er thy glorious works did sing;
    Or as, those holy fishers once among,
    Thou flamedst bright with sparkling parted tongues;
    And brought'st down Heaven to Earth in those all-conquering songs.'"

But where both fail is first in the adjustment of the harmony of the individual stanza as a
verse paragraph, and secondly in the management of their fable. Spenser has everywhere a certain
romance-interest both of story and character which carries off in its steady current, where
carrying off is needed, both his allegorising and his long descriptions. The Fletchers, unable
to impart this interest, or unconscious of the necessity of imparting it, lose themselves in
shallow overflowings like a stream that overruns its bank. But Giles was a master of gorgeous
colouring in phrase and rhythm, while in The Purple Island there are detached passages not
quite unworthy of Spenser, when he is not at his very best--that is to say, worthy of almost
any English poet. Phineas, moreover, has, to leave Britain's Ida alone, a not inconsiderable
amount of other work. His Piscatory Eclogues show the influence of The Shepherd's Calendar
as closely as, perhaps more happily than, The Purple Island shows the influence of The Faërie
Queene, and in his miscellanies there is much musical verse. It is, however, very noticeable
that even in these occasional poems his vehicle is usually either the actual stanza of the
Island, or something equally elaborate, unsuited though such stanzas often are to the purpose.
These two poets indeed, though in poetical capacity they surpassed all but one or two veterans
of their own generation, seem to have been wholly subdued and carried away by the mighty flood
of their master's poetical production. It is probable that, had he not written, they would
not have written at all; yet it is possible that, had he not written, they would have produced
something much more original and valuable. It ought to be mentioned that the influence of both
upon Milton, directly and as handing on the tradition of Spenser, was evidently very great.
The strong Cambridge flavour (not very perceptible in Spenser himself, but of which Milton
is, at any rate in his early poems, full) comes out in them, and from Christ's Victory at any
rate the poet of Lycidas, the Ode on the Nativity, and Paradise Regained, apparently "took
up," as the phrase of his own day went, not a few commodities.

The same rich borrower owed something to William Browne, who, in his turn, like the Fletchers,
but with a much less extensive indebtedness, levied on Spenser. Browne, however, was free from
the genius loci, being a Devonshire man born and of Exeter College, Oxford, by education. He
was born, they say, in 1591, published the first part of Britannia's Pastorals in 1613, made
many literary and some noble acquaintances, is thought to have lived for some time at Oxford
as a tutor, and either in Surrey or in his native county for the rest of his life, which is
(not certainly) said to have ended about 1643. Browne was evidently a man of very wide literary
sympathy, which saved him from falling into the mere groove of the Fletchers. He was a personal
friend and an enthusiastic devotee of Jonson, Drayton, Chapman. He was a student of Chaucer
and Occleve. He was the dear friend and associate of a poet more gifted but more unequal than
himself, George Wither. All this various literary cultivation had the advantage of keeping
him from being a mere mocking-bird, though it did not quite provide him with any prevailing
or wholly original pipe of his own. Britannia's Pastorals (the third book of which remained
in MS. for more than two centuries) is a narrative but extremely desultory poem, in fluent
and somewhat loose couplets, diversified with lyrics full of local colour, and extremely pleasant
to read, though hopelessly difficult to analyse in any short space, or indeed in any space
at all. Browne seems to have meandered on exactly as the fancy took him; and his ardent love
for the country, his really artistic though somewhat unchastened gift of poetical description
and presentment enabled him to go on just as he pleased, after a fashion, of which here are
two specimens in different measures:--

                                "'May first
    (Quoth Marin) swains give lambs to thee;
    And may thy flood have seignory
    Of all floods else; and to thy fame
    Meet greater springs, yet keep thy name.
    May never newt, nor the toad
    Within thy banks make their abode!
    Taking thy journey from the sea
    May'st thou ne'er happen in thy way
    On nitre or on brimstone mine,
    To spoil thy taste! This spring of thine,
    Let it of nothing taste but earth,
    And salt conceived in their birth.
    Be ever fresh! Let no man dare
    To spoil thy fish, make lock or wear,
    But on thy margent still let dwell
    Those flowers which have the sweetest smell.
    And let the dust upon thy strand
    Become like Tagus' golden sand.
    Let as much good betide to thee
    As thou hast favour shew'd to me.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Here left the bird the cherry, and anon
    Forsook her bosom, and for more is gone,
    Making such speedy flights into the thick
    That she admir'd he went and came so quick.
    Then, lest his many cherries should distaste,
    Some other fruit he brings than he brought last.
    Sometime of strawberries a little stem
    Oft changing colours as he gather'd them,
    Some green, some white, some red, on them infus'd,
    These lov'd, these fear'd, they blush'd to be so us'd.
    The peascod green, oft with no little toil
    He'd seek for in the fattest, fertil'st soil
    And rend it from the stalk to bring it to her,
    And in her bosom for acceptance woo her.
    No berry in the grove or forest grew
    That fit for nourishment the kind bird knew,
    Nor any powerful herb in open field
    To serve her brood the teeming earth did yield,
    But with his utmost industry he sought it,
    And to the cave for chaste Marina brought it."

The Shepherd's Pipe, besides reproducing Occleve, is in parts reminiscent of Chaucer, in parts
of Spenser, but always characterised by the free and unshackled movement which is Browne's
great charm; and the same characteristics appear in the few minor poems attributed to him.
Browne has been compared to Keats, who read and loved him, and there are certainly not a few
points of resemblance. Of Keats's higher or more restrained excellences, such as appear in
the finest passages of St. Agnes' Eve, and Hyperion, in the Ode to a Grecian Urn, and such
minor pieces as In a Drear-Nighted December, Browne had nothing. But he, like Keats, had that
kind of love of Nature which is really the love of a lover; and he had, like Keats, a wonderful
gift of expression of his love.[57] Nor is he ever prosaic, a praise which certainly cannot
be accorded to some men of far greater repute, and perhaps of occasionally higher gifts both
in his own time and others. The rarest notes of Apollo he has not, but he is never driven,
as the poet and friend of his, to whom we next come, was often driven, to the words of Mercury.
This special gift was not very common at the time; and though that time produced better poets
than Browne, it is worth noting in him. He may never reach the highest poetry, but he is always
a poet.

[57] Something of the same love, but unluckily much less of the same gift, occurs in the poems
of a friend of Browne's once hardly known except by some fair verses on Shakespere ("Renowned
Spenser," etc.), but made fully accessible by Mr. R. Warwick Bond in 1893. This was William
Basse, a retainer of the Wenman family near Thame, the author, probably or certainly, of a
quaint defence of retainership, Sword and Buckler (1602), and of other poems--Pastoral Elegies,
Urania, Polyhymnia, etc.--together with an exceedingly odd piece, The Metamorphosis of the
Walnut-Tree of Boarstall, which is not quite like anything else of the time. Basse, who seems
also to have spelt his name "Bas," and perhaps lived and wrote through the first forty or fifty
years of the seventeenth century, is but a moderate poet. Still he is not contemptible, and
deserves to rank as a member of the Spenserian family on the pastoral side; while the Walnut-Tree,
though it may owe something to The Oak and the Brere, has a quaintness which is not in Spenser,
and not perhaps exactly anywhere else.

The comparative impotence of even the best criticism to force writers on public attention has
never been better illustrated than in the case of George Wither himself. The greater part of
a century has passed since Charles Lamb's glowing eulogy of him was written, and the terms
of that eulogy have never been contested by competent authority. Yet there is no complete collection
of his work in existence, and there is no complete collection even of the poems, saving a privately
printed one which is inaccessible except in large libraries, and to a few subscribers. His
sacred poems, which are not his best, were indeed reprinted in the Library of Old Authors;
and one song of his, the famous "Shall I Wasting in Despair," is universally known. But the
long and exquisite poem of Philarete was not generally known (if it is generally known now,
which may be doubted) till Mr. Arber reprinted it in the fourth volume of his English Garner.
Nor can Fidelia and The Shepherd's Hunting, things scarcely inferior, be said to be familiar
to the general reader. For this neglect there is but one excuse, and that an insufficient one,
considering the immense quantity of very indifferent contemporary work which has had the honour
of modern publication. What the excuse is we shall say presently. Wither was born at Brentworth,
in the Alresford district of Hampshire (a district afterwards delightfully described by him),
on 11th June 1588. His family was respectable; and though not the eldest son, he had at one
time some landed property. He was for two years at Magdalen College, Oxford, of which he speaks
with much affection, but was removed before taking his degree. After a distasteful experience
of farm work, owing to reverses of fortune in his family he came to London, entered at Lincoln's
Inn, and for some years haunted the town and the court. In 1613 he published his Abuses Stript
and Whipt, one of the general and rather artificial satires not unfashionable at the time.
For this, although the book has no direct personal reference that can be discovered, he was
imprisoned in the Marshalsea; and there wrote the charming poem of The Shepherd's Hunting,
1615, and probably also Fidelia, an address from a faithful nymph to an inconstant swain, which,
though inferior to The Shepherd's Hunting and to Philarete in the highest poetical worth, is
a signal example of Wither's copious and brightly-coloured style. Three years later came the
curious personal poem of the Motto, and in 1622 Philarete itself, which was followed in the
very next year by the Hymns and Songs of the Church. Although Wither lived until 2d May 1667,
and was constantly active with his pen, his Hallelujah, 1641, another book of sacred verse,
is the only production of his that has received or that deserves much praise. The last thirty
years of his long life were eventful and unfortunate. After being a somewhat fervent Royalist,
he suddenly changed his creed at the outbreak of the great rebellion, sold his estate to raise
men for the Parliament, and was active in its cause with pen as well as with sword. Naturally
he got into trouble at the Restoration (as he had previously done with Cromwell), and was imprisoned
again, though after a time he was released. At an earlier period he had been in difficulties
with the Stationers' Company on the subject of a royal patent which he had received from James,
and which was afterwards (though still fruitlessly) confirmed by Charles, for his Hymns. Indeed,
Wither, though a man of very high character, seems to have had all his life what men of high
character not unfrequently have, a certain facility for getting into what is vulgarly called
hot-water.

The defect in his work, which has been referred to above, and which is somewhat passed over
in the criticisms of Lamb and others, is its amazing inequality. This is the more remarkable
in that evidence exists of not infrequent retouching on his part with the rather unusual result
of improvement--a fact which would seem to show that he possessed some critical faculty. Such
possession, however, seems on the other hand to be quite incompatible with the production of
the hopeless doggerel which he not infrequently signs. The felicity of language and the command
of rhythmical effect which he constantly displays, are extraordinary, as for instance in the
grand opening of his first Canticle:--

    "Come kiss me with those lips of thine,
      For better are thy loves than wine;
    And as the pourèd ointments be
      Such is the savour of thy name,
    And for the sweetness of the same
      The virgins are in love with thee."

Compare the following almost unbelievable rubbish--

    "As we with water wash away
      Uncleanness from our flesh,
    And sometimes often in a day
      Ourselves are fain to wash."

Even in his earlier and purely secular work there is something, though less of this inequality,
and its cause is not at all dubious. No poet, certainly no poet of merit, seems to have written
with such absolute spontaneity and want of premeditation as Wither. The metre which was his
favourite, and which he used with most success--the trochaic dimeter catalectic of seven syllables--lends
itself almost as readily as the octosyllable to this frequently fatal fluency; but in Wither's
hands, at least in his youth and early manhood, it is wonderfully successful, as here:--

    "And sometimes, I do admire
    All men burn not with desire.
    Nay, I muse her servants are not
    Pleading love: but O they dare not:
    And I, therefore, wonder why
    They do not grow sick and die.
    Sure they would do so, but that,
    By the ordinance of Fate,
    There is some concealed thing
    So each gazer limiting,
    He can see no more of merit
    Than beseems his worth and spirit.
    For, in her, a grace there shines
    That o'erdaring thoughts confines,
    Making worthless men despair
    To be loved of one so fair.
    Yea the Destinies agree
    Some good judgments blind should be:
    And not gain the power of knowing
    Those rare beauties, in her growing.
    Reason doth as much imply,
    For, if every judging eye
    Which beholdeth her should there
    Find what excellences are;
    All, o'ercome by those perfections
    Would be captive to affections.
    So (in happiness unblest)
    She for lovers should not rest."

Nor had he at times a less original and happy command of the rhymed decasyllabic couplet, which
he sometimes handles after a fashion which makes one almost think of Dryden, and sometimes
after a fashion (as in the lovely description of Alresford Pool at the opening of Philarete)
which makes one think of more modern poets still. Besides this metrical proficiency and gift,
Wither at this time (he thought fit to apologise for it later) had a very happy knack of blending
the warm amatory enthusiasm of his time with sentiments of virtue and decency. There is in
him absolutely nothing loose or obscene, and yet he is entirely free from the milk-and-water
propriety which sometimes irritates the reader in such books as Habington's Castara. Wither
is never mawkish, though he is never loose, and the swing of his verse at its best is only
equalled by the rush of thought and feeling which animates it. As it is perhaps necessary to
justify this high opinion, we may as well give the "Alresford Pool" above noted. It is like
Browne, but it is better than anything Browne ever did; being like Browne, it is not unlike
Keats; it is also singularly like Mr. William Morris.

    "For pleasant was that Pool; and near it, then,
    Was neither rotten marsh nor boggy fen.
    It was not overgrown with boisterous sedge,
    Nor grew there rudely, then, along the edge
    A bending willow, nor a prickly bush,
    Nor broad-leafed flag, nor reed, nor knotty rush:
    But here, well ordered, was a grove with bowers;
    There, grassy plots, set round about with flowers.
    Here, you might, through the water, see the land
    Appear, strewed o'er with white or yellow sand.
    Yon, deeper was it; and the wind, by whiffs,
    Would make it rise, and wash the little cliffs;
    On which, oft pluming, sate, unfrighted then
    The gagling wild goose, and the snow-white swan,
    With all those flocks of fowl, which, to this day
    Upon those quiet waters breed and play."

When to this gift of description is added a frequent inspiration of pure fancy, it is scarcely
surprising that--

    "Such a strain as might befit
    Some brave Tuscan poet's wit,"

to borrow a couplet of his own, often adorns Wither's verse.

Two other poets of considerable interest and merit belong to this period, who are rather Scotch
than English, but who have usually been included in histories of English literature--Drummond
of Hawthornden, and Sir William Alexander, Earl of Stirling. Both, but especially Drummond,
exhibit equally with their English contemporaries the influences which produced the Elizabethan
Jacobean poetry; and though I am not myself disposed to go quite so far, the sonnets of Drummond
have sometimes been ranked before all others of the time except Shakespere's.

William Drummond was probably born at the beautiful seat whence he derived his designation,
on 13th December 1585. His father was Sir John Drummond, and he was educated in Edinburgh and
in France, betaking himself, like almost all young Scotchmen of family, to the study of the
law. He came back to Scotland from France in 1610, and resided there for the greater part of
his life, though he left it on at least two occasions for long periods, once travelling on
the continent for eight years to recover from the grief of losing a lady to whom he was betrothed,
and once retiring to avoid the inconveniences of the Civil War. Though a Royalist, Drummond
submitted to be requisitioned against the Crown, but as an atonement he is said to have died
of grief at Charles I.'s execution in 1649. The most famous incidents of his life are the visit
that Ben Jonson paid to him, and the much discussed notes of that visit which Drummond left
in manuscript. It would appear, on the whole, that Drummond was an example of a well-known
type of cultivated dilettante, rather effeminate, equally unable to appreciate Jonson's boisterous
ways and to show open offence at them, and in the same way equally disinclined to take the
popular side and to endure risk and loss in defending his principles. He shows better in his
verse. His sonnets are of the true Elizabethan mould, exhibiting the Petrarchian grace and
romance, informed with a fire and aspiring towards a romantic ideal beyond the Italian. Like
the older writers of the sonnet collections generally, Drummond intersperses his quatorzains
with madrigals, lyrical pieces of various lengths, and even with what he calls "songs,"--that
is to say, long poems in the heroic couplet. He was also a skilled writer of elegies, and two
of his on Gustavus Adolphus and on Prince Henry have much merit. Besides the madrigals included
in his sonnets he has left another collection entitled "Madrigals and Epigrams," including
pieces both sentimental and satirical. As might be expected the former are much better than
the latter, which have the coarseness and the lack of point noticeable in most of the similar
work of this time from Jonson to Herrick. We have also of his a sacred collection (again very
much in accordance with the practice of his models of the preceding generation), entitled Flowers
of Sion, and consisting, like the sonnets, of poems of various metres. One of these is noticeable
as suggesting the metre of Milton's "Nativity," but with an alteration of line number and rhyme
order which spoils it. Yet a fourth collection of miscellanies differs not much in constitution
from the others, and Drummond's poetical work is completed by some local pieces, such as Forth
Feasting, some hymns and divine poems, and an attempt in Macaronic called Polemo-Middinia,
which is perhaps not his. He was also a prose writer, and a tract, entitled The Cypress Grove,
has been not unjustly ranked as a kind of anticipation of Sir Thomas Browne, both in style
and substance. Of his verse a sonnet and a madrigal may suffice, the first of which can be
compared with the Sleep sonnet given earlier:--

    "Sleep, Silence' child, sweet father of soft rest,
    Prince whose approach peace to all mortals brings,
    Indifferent host to shepherds and to kings,
    Sole comforter of minds which are oppressed;
    Lo, by thy charming rod, all breathing things
    Lie slumb'ring, with forgetfulness possess'd,
    And yet o'er me to spread thy drowsy wings
    Thou spar'st, alas! who cannot be thy guest.
    Since I am thine, O come, but with that face
    To inward light, which thou art wont to show,
    With feignèd solace ease a true felt woe;
    Or if, deaf god, thou do deny that grace,
    Come as thou wilt, and what thou wilt bequeath:
    I long to kiss the image of my death."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "To the delightful green
    Of you, fair radiant een,
    Let each black yield, beneath the starry arch.
    Eyes, burnish'd Heavens of love,
    Sinople[58] lamps of Jove,
    Save all those hearts which with your flames you parch
    Two burning suns you prove;
    All other eyes, compared with you, dear lights
    Are Hells, or if not Hells, yet dumpish nights.
    The heavens (if we their glass
    The sea believe) are green, not perfect blue;
    They all make fair, whatever fair yet was,
    And they are fair because they look like you."

[58] In heraldry (but not English heraldry) = "green."

Sir William Alexander, a friend and countryman of Drummond (who bewailed him in more than one
mournful rhyme of great beauty), was born in 1580 of a family which, though it had for some
generations borne the quasi-surname Alexander, is said to have been a branch of the Clan Macdonald.
Alexander early took to a court life, was much concerned in the proposed planting of Nova Scotia,
now chiefly remembered from its connection with the Order of Baronets, was Secretary of State
for Scotland, and was raised to the peerage. He died in 1640. Professor Masson has called him
"the second-rate Scottish sycophant of an inglorious despotism." He might as well be called
"the faithful servant of monarchy in its struggle with the encroachments of Republicanism,"
and one description would be as much question-begging as the other. But we are here concerned
only with his literary work, which was considerable in bulk and quality. It consists chiefly
of a collection of sonnets (varied as usual with madrigals, etc.), entitled Aurora; of a long
poem on Doomsday in an eight-lined stanza; of a Paraenesis to Prince Henry; and of four "monarchic
tragedies" on Darius, Croesus, Alexander, and Cæsar, equipped with choruses and other appliances
of the literary rather than the theatrical tragedy. It is perhaps in these choruses that Alexander
appears at his best; for his special forte was grave and stately declamation, as the second
of the following extracts will prove. The first is a sonnet from Aurora:--

    "Let some bewitched with a deceitful show,
    Love earthly things unworthily esteem'd,
    And losing that which cannot be redeemed
    Pay back with pain according as they owe:
    But I disdain to cast my eyes so low,
    That for my thoughts o'er base a subject seem'd,
    Which still the vulgar course too beaten deem'd;
    And loftier things delighted for to know.
    Though presently this plague me but with pain,
    And vex the world with wondering at my woes:
    Yet having gained that long desired repose
    My mirth may more miraculous remain.
    That for the which long languishing I pine,
    It is a show, but yet a show divine."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Those who command above,
    High presidents of Heaven,
    By whom all things do move,
    As they have order given,
    What worldling can arise
    Against them to repine?
    Whilst castled in the skies
    With providence divine;
    They force this peopled round,
    Their judgments to confess,
    And in their wrath confound
    Proud mortals who transgress
    The bounds to them assigned
    By Nature in their mind.

    "Base brood of th' Earth, vain man,
    Why brag'st thou of thy might?
    The Heavens thy courses scan,
    Thou walk'st still in their sight;
    Ere thou wast born, thy deeds
    Their registers dilate,
    And think that none exceeds
    The bounds ordain'd by fate;
    What heavens would have thee to,
    Though they thy ways abhor,
    That thou of force must do,
    And thou canst do no more:
    This reason would fulfil,
    Their work should serve their will.

    "Are we not heirs of death,
    In whom there is no trust?
    Who, toss'd with restless breath,
    Are but a drachm of dust;
    Yet fools whenas we err,
    And heavens do wrath contract,
    If they a space defer
    Just vengeance to exact,
    Pride in our bosom creeps,
    And misinforms us thus
    That love in pleasure sleeps
    Or takes no care of us:
    'The eye of Heaven beholds
    What every heart enfolds.'"

Not a few of his other sonnets are also worth reading, and the unpromising subject of Doomsday
(which connects itself in style partly with Spenser, but perhaps still more with The Mirror
for Magistrates), does not prevent it from containing fine passages. Alexander had indeed more
power of sustained versification than his friend Drummond, though he hardly touches the latter
in point of the poetical merit of short isolated passages and poems. Both bear perhaps a little
too distinctly the complexion of "Gentlemen of the Press"--men who are composing poems because
it is the fashion, and because their education, leisure, and elegant tastes lead them to prefer
that form of occupation. But perhaps what is most interesting about them is the way in which
they reproduce on a smaller scale the phenomenon presented by the Scotch poetical school of
the fifteenth century. That school, as is well known, was a direct offshoot from, or following
of the school of Chaucer, though in Dunbar at least it succeeded in producing work almost,
if not quite, original in form. In the same way, Drummond and Alexander, while able to the
full to experience directly the foreign, and especially Italian influences which had been so
strong on the Elizabethans, were still in the main followers of the Elizabethans themselves,
and formed, as it were, a Scottish moon to the English sun of poetry. There is little or nothing
that is distinctively national about them, though in their following of the English model they
show talent at least equal to all but the best of the school they followed. But this fact,
joined to those above noted, helps, no doubt, to give an air of want of spontaneity to their
verse--an air as of the literary exercise.

There are other writers who might indifferently come in this chapter or in that on Caroline
poetry, for the reign of James was as much overlapped in this respect by his son's as by Elizabeth's,
and there are others who need but slight notice, besides yet others--a great multitude--who
can receive no notice at all. The doggerel of Taylor, the water-poet (not a bad prose writer),
received both patronage and attention, which seem to have annoyed his betters, and he has been
resuscitated even in our own times. Francis Beaumont, the coadjutor of Fletcher, has left independent
poetical work which, on the whole, confirms the general theory that the chief execution of
the joint plays must have been his partner's, but which (as in the Letter to Ben Jonson and
the fine stoicism of The Honest Man's Fortune) contains some very good things. His brother,
Sir John Beaumont, who died not so young as Francis, but at the comparatively early age of
forty-four, was the author of a historical poem on Bosworth Field, as well as of minor pieces
of higher merit, including some remarkable critical observations on English verse. Two famous
poems, which everyone knows by heart, the "You Meaner Beauties of the Night" of Sir Henry Wotton
and the "Tell Me no more how fair She is" of Bishop Henry King, are merely perfect examples
of a style of verse which was largely if not often quite so perfectly practised by lesser or
less known men, as well as by greater ones.[59]

[59] The most interesting collection and selection of verse of this class and time is undoubtedly
Dr. Hannah's well-known and charming but rather oddly entitled Poems of Raleigh, Wotton, and
other Courtly Poets in the Aldine Series. I say oddly entitled, because though Raleigh and
Wotton were certainly courtiers, it would be hard to make the name good of some of the minor
contributors.

There is, moreover, a class of verse which has been referred to incidentally before, and which
may very likely be referred to incidentally again, but which is too abundant, too characteristic,
and too charming not to merit a place, if no very large one, to itself. I refer to the delightful
songs which are scattered all over the plays of the period, from Greene to Shirley. As far
as Shakespere is concerned, these songs are well enough known, and Mr. Palgrave's Treasury,
with Mr. Bullen's and Bell's Songs from the Dramatists, have given an inferior currency, but
still a currency, to the best of the remainder. The earlier we have spoken of. But the songs
of Greene and his fellows, though charming, cannot compare with those of the more properly
Jacobean poets. To name only the best of each, Ben Jonson gives us the exquisite "Queen and
Huntress," which is perhaps the best-known piece of his whole work; the pleasant "If I freely
may discover," and best of all--unsurpassed indeed in any language for rolling majesty of rhythm
and romantic charm of tone--"Drink to me only with thine eyes." Again the songs in Beaumont
and Fletcher stand very high, perhaps highest of all next to Shakespere's in respect of the
"woodnote wild." If the snatch of only half articulate poetry of the "Lay a garland on my hearse,"
of The Maid's Tragedy, is really Fletcher's, he has here equalled Shakespere himself. We may
add to it the fantastic and charming "Beauty clear and fair," of The Elder Brother, the comic
swing of "Let the bells ring," and "The fit's upon me now;" all the songs without exception
in The Faithful Shepherdess, which is much less a drama than a miscellany of the most delightful
poetry; the lively war-song in The Mad Lover, to which Dryden owed not a little; the catch,
"Drink to-day and drown all sorrow;" the strange song of the dead host in The Lover's Progress;
the exquisite "Weep no more," of The Queen of Corinth; the spirited "Let the mill go round,"
of The Maid in the Mill; the "Lovers rejoice," of Cupid's Revenge; the "Roses, their sharp
spines being gone," which is one of the most Shakesperean things of The Two Noble Kinsmen;
the famous "Hence, all you vain-delights," of The Nice Valour, which Milton expanded into Il
Penseroso, and the laughing song of the same play. This long catalogue only contains a part
of the singularly beautiful song work of the great pair of dramatists, and as an example we
may give one of the least known from The Captain:--

    "Tell me, dearest, what is love?
    'Tis a lightning from above;
    'Tis an arrow, 'tis a fire,
    'Tis a boy they call Desire.
            'Tis a grave,
            Gapes to have
    Those poor fools that long to prove.

    "Tell me more, are women true?
    Yes, some are, and some as you.
    Some are willing, some are strange
    Since you men first taught to change.
            And till troth
            Be in both,
    All shall love to love anew.

    "Tell me more yet, can they grieve?
    Yes, and sicken sore, but live,
    And be wise, and delay
    When you men are as wise as they.
            Then I see,
            Faith will be
    Never till they both believe."

The dirge of Vittoria Corombona and the preparation for death of The Duchess of Malfi are Webster's
sole but sufficient contributions to the list. The witch songs of Middleton's Witch, and the
gipsy, or rather tramp, songs of More Dissemblers besides Women and The Spanish Gipsy, have
very high merit. The songs of Patient Grissell, which are pretty certainly Dekker's, have been
noticed already. The otherwise worthless play of The Thracian Wonder, attributed to Webster
and Rowley, contains an unusual number of good songs. Heywood and Massinger were not great
at songs, and the superiority of those in The Sun's Darling over the songs in Ford's other
plays, seems to point to the authorship of Dekker. Finally, James Shirley has the song gift
of his greater predecessors. Every one knows "The glories of our blood and state," but this
is by no means his only good song; it worthily closes the list of the kind--a kind which, when
brought together and perused separately, exhibits, perhaps, as well as anything else of equal
compass, the extraordinary abundance of poetical spirit in the age. For songs like these are
not to be hammered out by the most diligent ingenuity, not to be spun by the light of the most
assiduously fed lamp. The wind of such inspiration blows where, and only where, it listeth.

CHAPTER IX

MILTON, TAYLOR, CLARENDON, BROWNE, HOBBES

During the second and third quarters of the seventeenth century, or (to take literary rather
than chronological dates) between the death of Bacon and the publication of Absalom and Achitophel,
there existed in England a quintet of men of letters, of such extraordinary power and individuality,
that it may be doubted whether any other period of our own literature can show a group equal
to them; while it is certain that no other literature, except, perhaps, in the age of Pericles,
can match them. They were all, except Hobbes (who belonged by birth, though not by date and
character of writing, to an earlier generation than the rest), born, and they all died, within
a very few years of each other. All were prose writers of the very highest merit; and though
only one was a poet, yet he had poetry enough to spare for all the five. Of the others, Clarendon,
in some of the greatest characteristics of the historian, has been equalled by no Englishman,
and surpassed by few foreigners. Jeremy Taylor has been called the most eloquent of men; and
if this is a bold saying, it is scarcely too bold. Hobbes stands with Bacon and Berkeley at
the head of English-speaking philosophers, and is, if not in general grasp, in range of ideas,
or in literary polish, yet in acuteness of thought and originality of expression, perhaps the
superior of both his companions. The excellence of Browne is indeed more purely literary and
intensely artistic first of all--a matter of expression rather than of substance,--while he
is perhaps more flawed than any of them by the fashionable vices of his time. Yet, as an artist,
or rather architect, of words in the composite and florid style, it is vain to look anywhere
for his superior.

John Milton--the greatest, no doubt, of the five, if only because of his mastery of either
harmony--was born in London on 9th December 1608, was educated at Cambridge, studied at home
with unusual intensity and control of his own time and bent; travelled to Italy, returned,
and engaged in the somewhat unexpected task of school-keeping; was stimulated, by the outbreak
of the disturbances between king and parliament, to take part with extraordinary bitterness
in the strife of pamphlets on the republican and anti-prelatical side, defended the execution
of the king in his capacity of Latin secretary to the Government (to which he had been appointed
in 1649); was struck with blindness, lay hid at the Restoration for some time in order to escape
the Royalist vengeance (which does not seem very seriously to have threatened him), composed
and published in 1667 the great poem of Paradise Lost, followed it with that of Paradise Regained,
did not a little other work in prose and poetry, and died on 8th November 1674. He had been
thrice married, and his first wife had left him within a month of her marriage, thereby occasioning
the singular series of pamphlets on divorce, the theories of which, had she not returned, he
had, it is said, intended to put into practice on his own responsibility. The general abstinence
from all but the barest biographical outline which the scale of this book imposes is perhaps
nowhere a greater gain than in the case of Milton. His personal character was, owing to political
motives, long treated with excessive rigour. The reaction to Liberal politics early in the
nineteenth century substituted for this rigour a somewhat excessive admiration, and even now
the balance is hardly restored, as may be seen from the fact that a late biographer of his
stigmatises his first wife, the unfortunate Mary Powell, as "a dull and common girl," without
a tittle of evidence except the bare fact of her difference with her husband, and some innuendoes
(indirect in themselves, and clearly tainted as testimony) in Milton's own divorce tracts.
On the whole, Milton's character was not an amiable one, nor even wholly estimable. It is probable
that he never in the course of his whole life did anything that he considered wrong; but unfortunately,
examples are not far to seek of the facility with which desire can be made to confound itself
with deliberate approval. That he was an exacting, if not a tyrannical husband and father,
that he held in the most peremptory and exaggerated fashion the doctrine of the superiority
of man to woman, that his egotism in a man who had actually accomplished less would be half
ludicrous and half disgusting, that his faculty of appreciation beyond his own immediate tastes
and interests was small, that his intolerance surpassed that of an inquisitor, and that his
controversial habits and manners outdid the license even of that period of controversial abuse,--these
are propositions which I cannot conceive to be disputed by any competent critic aware of the
facts. If they have ever been denied, it is merely from the amiable but uncritical point of
view which blinks all a man's personal defects in consideration of his literary genius. That
we cannot afford to do here, especially as Milton's personal defects had no small influence
on his literary character. But having honestly set down his faults, let us now turn to the
pleasanter side of the subject without fear of having to revert, except cursorily, to the uglier.

The same prejudice and partisanship, however, which have coloured the estimate of Milton's
personal character have a little injured the literary estimate of him. It is agreed on all
hands that Johnson's acute but unjust criticism was directed as much by political and religious
prejudice as by the operation of narrow and mistaken rules of prosody and poetry; and all these
causes worked together to produce that extraordinary verdict on Lycidas, which has been thought
unintelligible. But it would be idle to contend that there is not nearly as much bias on the
other side in the most glowing of his modern panegyrists--Macaulay and Landor. It is, no doubt,
in regard to a champion so formidable, both as ally and as enemy, difficult to write without
fear or favour, but it must be attempted.

Milton's periods of literary production were three. In each of them he produced work of the
highest literary merit, but at the same time singularly different in kind. In the first, covering
the first thirty years of his life, he wrote no prose worth speaking of, but after juvenile
efforts, and besides much Latin poetry of merit, produced the exquisite poems of L'Allegro
and Il Penseroso, the Hymn on the Nativity, the incomparable Lycidas, the Comus (which I have
the audacity to think his greatest work, if scale and merit are considered), and the delicious
fragments of the Arcades. Then his style abruptly changed, and for another twenty years he
devoted himself chiefly to polemical pamphlets, relieved only by a few sonnets, whose strong
originality and intensely personal savour are uniform, while their poetical merit varies greatly.
The third period of fifteen years saw the composition of the great epics of Paradise Lost and
Paradise Regained, and of the tragedy of Samson Agonistes, together with at least the completion
of a good deal of prose, including a curious History of England, wherein Milton expatiates
with a singular gusto over details which he must have known, and indeed allows that he knew,
to be fabulous. The production of each of these periods may be advantageously dealt with separately
and in order.

Milton's Latin compositions both in prose and verse lie rather outside of our scope, though
they afford a very interesting subject. It is perhaps sufficient to say that critics of such
different times, tempers, and attitudes towards their subject as Johnson and the late Rector
of Lincoln,--critics who agree in nothing except literary competence,--are practically at one
as to the remarkable excellence of Milton's Latin verse at its best. It is little read now,
but it is a pity that any one who can read Latin should allow himself to be ignorant of at
least the beautiful Epitaphium Damonis on the poet's friend, Charles Diodati.

The dates of the few but exquisite poems of the first period are known with some but not complete
exactness. Milton was not an extremely precocious poet, and such early exercises as he has
preserved deserve the description of being rather meritorious than remarkable. But in 1629,
his year of discretion, he struck his own note first and firmly with the hymn on the "Nativity."
Two years later the beautiful sonnet on his three-and-twentieth year followed. L'Allegro and
Il Penseroso date not before, but probably not much after, 1632; Comus dating from 1634, and
Lycidas from 1637. All these were written either in the later years at Cambridge, or in the
period of independent study at Horton in Buckinghamshire--chiefly in the latter. Almost every
line and word of these poems has been commented on and fought over, and I cannot undertake
to summarise the criticism of others. Among the greater memorabilia of the subject is that
wonderful Johnsonism, the description of Lycidas as "harsh, the rhymes uncertain, and the numbers
unpleasing;" among the minor, the fact that critics have gravely quarrelled among themselves
over the epithet "monumental" applied to the oak in Il Penseroso, when Spenser's "Builder Oak"
(Milton was a passionate student of Spenser) would have given them the key at once, even if
the same phrase had not occurred, as I believe it does, in Chaucer, also a favourite of Milton's.
We have only space here for first-hand criticism.

This body of work, then, is marked by two qualities: an extraordinary degree of poetic merit,
and a still more extraordinary originality of poetic kind. Although Milton is always Milton,
it would be difficult to find in another writer five poems, or (taking the Allegro and its
companion together) four, so different from each other and yet of such high merit. And it would
be still more difficult to find poems so independent in their excellence. Neither the influence
of Jonson nor the influence of Donne--the two poetical influences in the air at the time, and
the latter especially strong at Cambridge--produced even the faintest effect on Milton. We
know from his own words, and should have known even if he had not mentioned it, that Shakespere
and Spenser were his favourite studies in English; yet, save in mere scattered phrases none
of these poems owes anything to either. He has teachers but no models; masters, but only in
the way of learning how to do, not what to do. The "certain vital marks," of which he somewhat
arrogantly speaks, are indeed there. I do not myself see them least in the poem on the "Nativity,"
which has been the least general favourite. It shows youth in a certain inequality, in a slight
overdose of ornament, and especially in a very inartistic conclusion. But nowhere even in Milton
does the mastery of harmonies appear better than in the exquisite rhythmical arrangement of
the piece, in the almost unearthly beauty of the exordium, and in the famous stanzas beginning
"The oracles are dumb." It must be remembered that at this time English lyric was in a very
rudimentary and ill-organised condition. The exquisite snatches in the dramatists had been
snatches merely; Spenser and his followers had chiefly confined themselves to elaborate stanzas
of full length lines, and elsewhere the octo-syllabic couplet, or the quatrain, or the dangerous
"eights and sixes," had been chiefly affected. The sestines and canzons and madrigals of the
sonneteers, for all the beauty of their occasional flashes, have nothing like the gracious
and sustained majesty of the "Nativity" piece. For technical perfection in lyric metre, that
is not so much to be sung as said, this ode has no precedent rival. As for L'Allegro and Il
Penseroso, who shall praise them fitly? They are among the few things about which there is
no difference of opinion, which are as delightful to childhood as to criticism, to youth as
to age. To dwell on their technical excellences (the chief of which is the unerring precision
with which the catalectic and acatalectic lines are arranged and interchanged) has a certain
air of impertinence about it. Even a critical King Alfonso El Sabio could hardly think it possible
that Milton might have taken a hint here, although some persons have, it seems, been disturbed
because skylarks do not come to the window, just as others are troubled because the flowers
in Lycidas do not grow at the same time, and because they think they could see stars through
the "star-proof" trees of the Arcades.

The fragments of the masque just mentioned consist only of three songs and an address in rhymed
couplets. Of the songs, those ending--

      Such a rural queen,
    All Arcadia hath not seen,

are equal to anything that Milton has done; the first song and the address, especially the
latter, do not fall far below them. But it is in Comus that, if I have any skill of criticism,
Milton's poetical power is at its greatest height. Those who judge poetry on the ground of
bulk, or of originality of theme, or of anything else extra-poetical,--much more those (the
greater number) who simply vary transmitted ideas,--may be scandalised at this assertion, but
that will hardly matter much. And indeed the indebtedness of Comus in point of subject (it
is probably limited to the Odyssey, which is public property, and to George Peele's Old Wives'
Tale, which gave little but a few hints of story) is scarcely greater than that of Paradise
Lost; while the form of the drama, a kind nearly as venerable and majestic as that of the epic,
is completely filled. And in Comus there is none of the stiffness, none of the longueurs, none
of the almost ludicrous want of humour, which mar the larger poem. Humour indeed was what Milton
always lacked; had he had it, Shakespere himself might hardly have been greater. The plan is
not really more artificial than that of the epic; though in the latter case it is masked to
us by the scale, by the grandeur of the personages, and by the familiarity of the images to
all men who have been brought up on the Bible. The versification, as even Johnson saw, is the
versification of Paradise Lost, and to my fancy at any rate it has a spring, a variety, a sweep
and rush of genius, which are but rarely present later. As for its beauty in parts, quis vituperavit?
It is impossible to single out passages, for the whole is golden. The entering address of Comus,
the song "Sweet Echo," the descriptive speech of the Spirit, and the magnificent eulogy of
the "sun-clad power of chastity," would be the most beautiful things where all is beautiful,
if the unapproachable "Sabrina fair" did not come later, and were not sustained before and
after, for nearly two hundred lines of pure nectar. If poetry could be taught by the reading
of it, then indeed the critic's advice to a poet might be limited to this: "Give your days
and nights to the reading of Comus."

The sole excuses for Johnson's amazing verdict on Lycidas are that it is not quite so uniformly
good, and that in his strictures on its "rhyme" and "numbers" he was evidently speaking from
the point of view at which the regular couplet is regarded as the ne plus ultra of poetry.
There are indeed blotches in it. The speech of Peter, magnificently as it is introduced, and
strangely as it has captivated some critics, who seem to think that anything attacking the
Church of England must be poetry, is out of place, and in itself is obscure, pedantic, and
grotesque. There is some over-classicism, and the scale of the piece does not admit the display
of quite such sustained and varied power as in Comus. But what there is, is so exquisite that
hardly can we find fault with Mr. Pattison's hyperbole when he called Lycidas the "high-water
mark of English poetry." High-water mark even in the physical world is a variable limit. Shakespere
constantly, and some other poets here and there in short passages go beyond Milton. But in
the same space we shall nowhere find anything that can outgo the passage beginning "Alas what
boots it," down to "head of thine," and the whole conclusion from "Return Alpheus." For melody
of versification, for richness of images, for curious felicity of expression, these cannot
be surpassed.

"But O the heavy change"--to use an irresistible quotation, the more irresistible that the
change is foreshadowed in Lycidas itself--from the golden poetry of these early days to the
prose of the pamphlets. It is not that Milton's literary faculty is less conspicuous here,
or less interesting. There is no English prose before him, none save Taylor's and Browne's
in his time, and absolutely none after him that can compare with the finest passages of these
singular productions. The often quoted personal descriptions of his aims in life, his early
literary studies, his views of poetry and so forth, are almost equal in the "other harmony
of prose" to Comus and Lycidas. The deservedly famous Areopagitica is full of the most splendid
concerted pieces of prose-music, and hardly anywhere from the Tractate of Reformation Touching
Church Discipline to the History of Britain, which he revised just before his death, is it
possible to read a page without coming across phrases, passages, and even whole paragraphs,
which are instinct with the most splendid life. But the difference between Milton's poetry
and his prose is, that in verse he is constantly under the restraint (sometimes, in his later
work especially, too much under the restraint) of the sense of style; while in his prose he
seems to be wholly emancipated from it. Even in his finest passages he never seems to know
or to care how a period is going to end. He piles clause on clause, links conjunction to conjunction,
regardless of breath, or sense, or the most ordinary laws of grammar. The second sentence of
his first prose work contains about four hundred words, and is broken in the course of them
like a wounded snake. In his very highest flights he will suddenly drop to grotesque and bathos;
and there is no more difficult task (haud inexpertus loquor) than the selection from Milton
of any passage of length which shall not contain faults of which a modern schoolboy or gutter-journalist
would be ashamed. Nor is the matter made much better by the consideration that it is not so
much ignorance as temper which is the cause of this deformity. Lest it be thought that I speak
harshly, let me quote from the late Mr. Mark Pattison, a strong sympathiser with Milton's politics,
in complete agreement if not with his religious views, yet with his attitude towards dominant
ecclesiasticism, and almost an idolater of him from the purely literary point of view. In "Eikonoclastes,"
Milton's reply to Eikon Basilike, Mr. Pattison says, and I do not care to attempt any improvement
on the words, "Milton is worse than tedious: his reply is in a tone of rude railing and insolent
swagger which would have been always unbecoming, but which at this moment was grossly indecent."
Elsewhere (and again I have nothing to add) Mr. Pattison describes Milton's prose pamphlets
as "a plunge into the depths of vulgar scurrility and libel below the level of average gentility
and education." But the Rector of Lincoln has not touched, or has touched very lightly, on
the fault above noted, the profound lack of humour that these pamphlets display. Others have
been as scurrilous, as libellous, as unfair; others have prostituted literary genius to the
composition of paid lampoons; but some at least of them have been saved by the all-saving sense
of humour. As any one who remembers the dreadful passage about the guns in Paradise Lost must
know, the book of humour was to Milton a sealed book. He has flashes of wit, though not many;
his indignation of itself sometimes makes him really sarcastic. But humorous he is never.

Destitute of this, the one saving grace of polemical literature, he plunged at the age of thirty-three
into pamphlet writing. With a few exceptions his production in this kind may be thrown into
four classes,--the Areopagitica and the Letter to Hartlib (much the best of the whole) standing
outside. The first class attacks prelatical government, and by degrees glides, under the guise
of apologetics for the famous Smectymnuus, into a fierce and indecent controversy with Bishop
Hall, containing some of the worst examples of the author's deplorable inability to be jocular.
Then comes the divorce series, which, with all its varied learning, is chiefly comic, owing
to Milton's unfortunate blindness to the fact that he was trying to make a public question
out of private grievances of the particular kind which most of all demand silence. Next rank
the pieces composing the Apologia of regicide, the Eikonoclastes, the controversy with Salmasius
(written in Latin), and the postscript thereto, devoted to the obscure Morus. And lastly come
the pamphlets in which, with singular want of understanding of the course of events, Milton
tried to argue Monk and the weary nation out of the purpose to shake off the heavy yoke of
so-called liberty. The History of Britain, the very agreeable fragment on the History of Muscovy,
the late Treatise Against Popery, in which the author holds out a kind of olive branch to the
Church of England, in the very act of proclaiming his Arianism, and the two little masterpieces
already referred to, are independent of any such classification. Yet even in them sometimes,
as always in the others, furor arma ministrat; and supplies them as badly as if he were supplying
by contract.

Nevertheless both Milton's faults and his merits as a prose writer are of the most remarkable
and interesting character. The former consist chiefly in the reckless haste with which he constructs
(or rather altogether neglects the construction of) his periods and sentences, in an occasional
confusion of those rules of Latin syntax which are only applicable to a fully inflected language
with the rules necessary in a language so destitute of inflections as English, and in a lavish
and sometimes both needless and tasteless adaptation of Latin words. All these were faults
of the time, but it is true that they are faults which Milton, like his contemporaries Taylor
and Browne, aggravated almost wilfully. Of the three Milton, owing no doubt to the fury which
animated him, is by far the most faulty and uncritical. Taylor is the least remarkable of the
three for classicisms either of syntax or vocabulary; and Browne's excesses in this respect
are deliberate. Milton's are the effect of blind passion. Yet the passages which diversify
and relieve his prose works are far more beautiful in their kind than anything to be found
elsewhere in English prose. Though he never trespasses into purely poetical rhythm, the solemn
music of his own best verse is paralleled in these; and the rugged and grandiose vocabulary
(it is particularly characteristic of Milton that he mixes the extremest vernacular with the
most exquisite and scholarly phrasing) is fused and moulded with an altogether extraordinary
power. Nor can we notice less the abundance of striking phrase, now quaint, now grand, now
forcible, which in short clauses and "jewels five words long" occurs constantly, even in the
passages least artistically finished as wholes. There is no English prose author whose prose
is so constantly racy with such a distinct and varied savour as Milton's. It is hardly possible
to open him anywhere after the fashion of the Sortes Virgilianæ without lighting on a line
or a couple of lines, which for the special purpose it is impossible to improve. And it might
be contended with some plausibility that this abundance of jewels, or purple patches, brings
into rather unfair prominence the slips of grammar and taste, the inequalities of thought,
the deplorable attempts to be funny, the rude outbursts of bargee invective, which also occur
so numerously. One other peculiarity, or rather one result of these peculiarities, remains
to be noticed; and that is that Milton's prose is essentially inimitable. It would be difficult
even to caricature or to parody it; and to imitate it as his verse, at least his later verse,
has been so often imitated, is simply impossible. 

Then observe the schemes they projected. Conquests, consolidations, empires, dominion, and to include
my own project, a bullion bank with a ten-acre vault. It appears that a lack of capital was
at the bottom of all their plans. Alexander confessed that he was bankrupt for lack of more worlds,
and is reputed to have shed tears over his failure, which might have been expected from a modern
dry-goods jobber, but not from Alexander. Cæsar and Bonaparte failed for the want of men: they
do not seem to have been aware of the existence of Rhode Island.

I think Burr failed for the lack of impudence--he had more than all the rest of the world together, but
he needed much more than that to push his projects ahead of his times. As for myself, when I have doubled
my capital, I shall found my bullion bank in the face of all opposition.

The ten-acre lot at the corner of Broadway and Wall street is already selected and paid for,
and I shall excavate as soon as the present crop is off.

There
is no question that the occupation of banking conduces to literary pursuits. When I take interest out
of my fellow beings, I naturally take interest in them, and so fall to writing about them. I have
in my portfolio sketches of all the leading merchants of the age, romantically wrought, and full of
details of their private lives, hopes, fears, and pleasures. These men that go up town every day
have had, and still have, little fanciful excursions that are quite amusing when an observer of
my talent notes them down. I know all about old Boscobello, the Spanish merchant, of the house
of Boscobello, Bolaso & Co. My romance of his life from twenty to forty
fills three volumes, and is as exciting as the diaries of those amusing
French people whom Bossuet preached to with such small effect.

Boscobello has sobered since forty, and begs for loans as an old business man ought to. I think he sees
the error of his ways, and is anxious to repair his fortunes to the
old point, but it is easier to spend a million than to make it.

My cashier reports his account overdrawn the other day, and not made good till late next afternoon.
This is a sign of failing circumstances, and must be attended to.

When Boscobello comes in about half past two of an afternoon for the usual loan of a hundred dollars
to enable him to go on, I amuse myself by talking to him while I look over his securities. He has
two or three loans to pay up before three o'clock, in different parts of the town, and we cannot
blame him for being in a hurry, but this is no concern of mine. If he will get into a tight place, one may
surely take one's time at helping him out: and really it does require some little time to investigate the class
of securities he brings, and which are astonishingly varied. For instance, he brought me to-day as collateral
to an accommodation, a deed to a South Brooklyn block, title clouded; a Mackerelville second
mortgage; ten shares of coal-oil stock; an undivided quarter right in a guano island, and the note
of a President of the Unterrified Insurance Company. 'How much was the cartage, Bos?' said I, for you see
my great mind descends to the smallest particulars, and I was benevolent
enough to wish to deduct his expenses from the bonus I was about
to charge him for the loan. 'Never mind the cartage,' said he, 'that's
a very strong list, and will command the money any day in Wall street,
but I have a particular reason for getting it of you.' 'The particular
reason being,' said I, 'that you can't get it anywhere else.

Jennings,'
I continued to my cashier, 'give Mr. Boscobello ninety-five dollars Norfolk or Richmond due-bills,
and take his check payable in current funds next Saturday for a hundred.'

Poor
old Boscobello!

A man at forty ought not to look old, but Bos had often seen the sun rise before he went to bed, and
he had been gay, so all my aunts said. Some stories Bos has told me himself, o' nights at my house,
after having in vain endeavored to induce me to take shares in the guano island, or 'go into' South Brooklyn
water lots. 'I'm too old for that sort of a thing, Bos,' I say; 'it's quite natural for you
to ask me, and I don't blame you for trying it on, but you must
find some younger man.

Tell me about that little affair with the mysterious Cuban lady; when you only weighed a hundred
and forty pounds, and never went out without a thousand dollars in
your pocket--in the blooming days of youth, Bos, when you went plucking
purple pansies along the shore.'

Boscobello weighs over two hundred
now, and would have a rush of blood to the head if he were to stoop
to pluck pansies.

Mysterious Cuban ladies, in fact ladies
of any description, would pass him by as a middle-aged person of a
somewhat distressed appearance, and the dreams of his youth are quite
dreamed out.

Nevertheless, when he warms with my white Hermitage, the colors of his old life come richly out
into sight, and the romantic adventures of wealth and high spirits overpower, though in the tame measures of
recital, all the adverse influences of the present hour. But as the evening wanes, the colors fade again; his
voice assumes a dreary tone; and I once more feel that I am with a man who has outlived himself, and who,
having never learned where the late roses blow, is now too old to
learn.

The reader will perceive I am sorry for Boscobello.

If I am remarkable for anything, it is for my humanity, consideration,
and sympathy.

These qualities of my constitution lead me to enter into the affairs
of my clients with feeling and sincerity, but I fear I am sometimes
misunderstood.

Not long ago I issued an order to my junior partners to exercise more compassion for those unfortunate
men with whom we decline business, and not to tumble them down the
front steps so roughly.

Let six of the porters attend with trestles, I said, and carry them out carefully, and dump them with
discretion in some quiet corner, where, as soon as they recover their faculties, they may get up and walk
away.

I put it to the reader if this was not a very humane idea, and yet
there are those who have stigmatized it as heartless.

I wish I was better acquainted with the way in which common people live.
I can see how I have made mistakes in consequence of not understanding the restricted
means and the exigencies of these people, who are styled respectable
merchants. Thus when Boscobello has made some more than ordinarily piteous
application, I have said, 'Boscobello, dismiss about fifty of your
servants;' or, 'Boscobello, sell a railroad and put the money back again
into your business;' or, 'Boscobello, my good friend, limit your table,
say, to turtle soup, champagne, and truffles; live more plainly, and
don't take above ten quarts of strawberries a day during the winter,--the
lower servants don't really need them;' or, 'Boscobello, if you are
really short, send around a hundred or so of your fast trotters to
my stables, and I'll pay you a long figure for them, if they are warranted
under two minutes.' Boscobello has never made any very definite replies
to such advice, and I have attributed his silence to his nervousness;
but I begin to suspect he has'nt quite understood me on such occasions.

Then again, when Twigsmith declared he was a ruined man, in consequence of my refusal of further
advances, and that he should be unable to provide for his family, I said: 'Why, Twigsmith, retire
to one of your country seats, and live on the interest of some canal or other, or discount
bonds and mortgages for the country banks.' Actually, I heard Twigsmith mutter as he went out,
that it wasn't right to insult a man's poverty.

Now I hadn't the remotest idea of injuring Twigsmith's feelings, for
he was a very clever fellow, and we made a good thing out of him
in his time, but it seems that my advice might not have been properly
grounded.

It begins to occur to me that there may be such a case as that a man
may want something, and not be able to get it; and again, that at
such a time a weak mind may complain, and grow discouraged, and make
itself disagreeable to others.

There is a set of old fellows who call themselves family men, and apply for discounts
as if they had a right to them, by reason of their having families to
provide for. I have never yet been able to see the logical sequence
of their conclusions, and so I tell them. What right does it give anybody to
my money that he has a wife, six children, and lives in a large house
with three nursery-maids, a cook, and a boy to clean the knives?

'Limit your expenses,' I say to these respectable gentlemen, 'do as I do. When Jennings comes to me on
Monday morning, and reports that the receipts of the week will be
eighty millions, exclusive of the Labrador coupons, which, if paid, will
be eighty millions more, I say, 'Jennings, discount seventy, and don't
encroach upon the reserves; you may however let Boscobello have ten
on call.' This is true philosophy; adapt your outlay to your income,
and you will never be in trouble, or go begging for loans.

If the Bank of England had always managed in this way, they wouldn't
have been obliged to call on our house for assistance during the Irish
famine.'

These family men invite me to their wives' parties, constantly,
unremittingly.

The billets sometimes reach my desk, although I have given orders
to put them all into the waste basket unopened.

I went to one of these parties, only one, I give you my honor as
a gentleman, and after Twigsmith and his horrid wife had almost wrung
my hand off, I was presented to a young female, to whom Nature had
been tolerably kind, but who was most shamefully dressed.

In fact her dress couldn't have cost over a thousand dollars--one
of my chambermaids going to a Teutonia ball is better got up. This
young person asked me 'how I liked the Germania?' Taking it for granted
that such a badly dressed young woman must be a school teacher, with
perhaps classical tastes, I replied that it was one of the most pleasing
compositions of Tacitus, and that I occasionally read it of a morning.

'Oh, it's not very taciturn,' she replied; 'I mean the band.' 'Very true,' said I, 'he says agmen,
which you translate band very happily, though I might possibly say 'body' in a familiar reading.'
'Oh dear,' she replied, blushing, 'I'm sure I don't know what kind of men they are, nor anything about
their bodies, but they certainly seem very respectable, and they play elegantly; oh, don't you think so?' 'I
am glad you are pleased so easily,' I answered; 'Tacitus describes their performances as indeed fearful,
and calculated to strike horror into the hearts of their enemies.
But,' continued I, endeavoring to make my retreat, for I began to think
I was in company with an inmate of a private lunatic hospital, 'they were
devoted to the ladies.' 'Indeed they are,' said she,'and the harpist is so
gallant, and gets so many nice bouquets.' It then flashed across my mind that
she meant the Germania musicians. 'They might do passably well, madame,'
said I, 'for a quadrille party at a country inn, but for a dress
ball or a dinner you would need three of them rolled into one.' 'Oh,
you gentlemen are so hard to please,' she replied; and catching sight
of the Koh-i-noor on my little finger, she began to smile so sweetly
that I fled at once.

It was at that party that I perspired. I had heard doctors talk about perspiration, and I had
seen waiters at a dinner with little drops on their faces, but I supposed it was the effect of a spatter,
or that some champagne had flown into their eyes, or something of
that sort. But at this party I happened to pass a mirror, and did
it the honor to look into it. I saw there the best dressed man in America,
but his face was flushed, and there were drops on it.

This is fearful, thought I; I took my mouchoir and gently removed them.
They dampened the delicate fabric, and I shook with agitation. The
large doors were open, and after a struggle of an hour and three
quarters, I reached them, and promising the hostess to send my valet
in the morning to make my respects, which the present exigency would
not allow me to stay to accomplish, I was rapidly whirled homeward.

I can hardly pen the details, but on the removal of my linen, it was found--can
I go on?--tumbled, and here and there the snowy lawn confessed a small damp
spot, or fleck of moisture.

Remorse and terror seized me. Medical attendance was
called, and I passed the night in a bath of attar of roses delicately
medicated with aqua pura.

Of
course, I have never again appeared at a party.

People haven't right ideas of entertainment. What entertainment is
it to stand all the evening in a set of sixteen-by-twenty parlors,
jammed in among all sorts of strange persons, and stranger perfumes,
deafened with a hubbub of senseless talk, and finally be led down
to feed at a long table where the sherry is hot, and the partridges
are cold?

Very probably some boy or other across the table lets off a champagne cork into your eyes, and the fattest
men in the room will tread on your toes. One might describe such scenes
of torture at length, but the recital of human follies and miseries
is not agreeable to my sensibilities.

I dare
say the reader might find himself gratified at one of my little fètes. The editors of this journal
attend them regularly, and have done me the honor to approve of them.
You enter on Twelfth avenue; a modest door just off Nine-and-a-half
street opens quietly, and you are ushered by a polite gentleman--one of
our city bank presidents, who takes this means to increase his income--into
an attiring room.

Here you are dressed by the most accomplished Schneider of the age, in your own selections from an
unequalled repertoire of sartorial chef d'ouvres, and your old clothes
are sent home in an omnibus.

I might delight you with a description of the ball room, but the editors have requested me to the
contrary. Some secrets of gorgeous splendor there are which are wisely
concealed from the general gaze.

But a floor three hundred feet square, and walls as high as the mast of an East Boston clipper, confer
ample room for motion; and the unequalled atmosphere of the saloon is perhaps unnecessarily refreshed
by fountains of rarest distilled waters. This is also my picture gallery, where all mythology is exhausted
by the great painters of the antique; and modern art is thoroughly illustrated by the famous landscapes
of both hemispheres.

The luxuriant fancy of my favorite artist has suggested unique collocations of aquaria and mossy
grottoes in the angles of the apartment, where the vegetable wealth of the tropics rises in perfect
bounty and lawless exuberance, and fishes of every hue and shape
flash to and fro among the tangled roots, in the light of a thousand
lamps. In the centre, I have caused the seats of the orchestra to be hidden
at the summit of a picturesque group of rocks, profusely hung with
vegetation, and gemmed with a hundred tiny fountains that trickle
in bright beads and diamonds into the reservoir at the base.

From this eminence, the melody of sixty unequalled performers pervades the saloon, justly diffused, and
on all sides the same; unlike the crude arrangements of most modern orchestras, where at one end of
the room you are deluged with music, and at the other extremity you distinguish the notes with pain or difficulty.
The ceiling, by a rare combination of mechanical ingenuity and artistic inspiration, displays,
so as to quite deceive the senses, the heavens with all their stars
moving in just and harmonious order.

Here on summer nights you see Lyra and Altair triumphantly blazing in
the middle sky as they sweep their mighty arch through the ample zenith; and low
in the south, the Scorpion crawls along the verge with the red Antares
at his heart, and the bright arrows of the Archer forever pursuing
him.

Here in winter, gazing up through the warm and perfumed air, you behold those bright orbs that immemorially
suggest the icy blasts of January: Aldebaran; the mighty suns of
Orion; diamond-like Capella; and the clear eyes of the Gemini. Under
such influences, with the breath of the tropics in your nostrils,
and your heart stirred by the rich melodies of the invisible orchestra,
waltzing becomes a sublime passion, in which all your faculties dilate
to utmost expansion, and you float out into happy forgetfulness of
time and destiny.

Rarely at these fêtes do we dance to other measures than those of the
waltz, though at times we find a relief from the luxuriance of that divine
rhythm in the cooler cadences of the Schottish. By universal consent and
instinct, we banish the quadrille, stiff and artificial; the polka,
inelegant and essentially vulgar; and the various hybrid measures
with which the low ingenuity of professors has filled society.

But we move like gods and goddesses to the sadly joyful strains of Strauss
and Weber and Beethoven and Mozart, and the mighty art of these great
masters fills and re-creates all our existence.

Sometimes in these divine hours, thrilled by the touch of a companion
whose heart beats against and consonantly with mine, I catch glimpses of
the possibilities of a free life of the spirit when it shall be released
from earth and gravitation, and I conjecture the breadth of a future
existence.

This will only seem irrational to such as have squeezed out their souls
flat between the hard edges of dollars, or have buried them among theologic
texts which they are too self-wise to understand. History and the experience
of the young are with me.

From twelve to four you sup, when, and as, and where, you will. A succession
of little rooms lie open around an atrium, all different as to size and
ornament, yet none too large for a single couple, and none too small
for the reunion of six

.
 It may or may not be that the phrases there
censured, "The fringes of the north star," and "The dew of angels' wings," and "Thus have I
seen a cloud rolling in its airy mansion," are not of that "apostolic plainness" that a Christian
minister's speech should have. But they and their likes are extremely beautiful--save that
in literature no less than in theology South has justly perstringed Taylor's constant and most
unworthy affectation of introducing a simile by "so I have seen." In the next age the phrase
was tediously abused, and in the age after, and ever since, it became and has remained mere
burlesque; but it was never good; and in the two fine specimen passages which follow it is
a distinct blot:--

     The Prayers of Anger and of Lust.

     "Prayer is the peace of our spirit, the stillness of our
     thoughts, the evenness of recollection, the seat of meditation,
     the rest of our cares, and the calm of our tempest. Prayer is the
     issue of a quiet mind, of untroubled thoughts; it is the daughter
     of charity and the sister of meekness; and he that prays to God
     with an angry--that is a troubled and discomposed--spirit, is
     like him that retires into a battle to meditate and sets up his
     closet in the outquarters of an army, and chooses a frontier
     garrison to be wise in. Anger is a perfect alienation of the mind
     from prayer, and therefore is contrary to that attention which
     presents our prayers in a right line to God.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "For so an impure vapour--begotten of the slime of the earth by
     the fevers and adulterous heats of an intemperate summer sun,
     striving by the ladder of a mountain to climb to heaven and
     rolling into various figures by an uneasy, unfixed revolution,
     and stopped at the middle region of the air, being thrown from
     his pride and attempt of passing towards the seat of the
     stars--turns into an unwholesome flame and, like the breath of
     hell, is confined into a prison of darkness and a cloud, till it
     breaks into diseases, plagues and mildews, stinks and blastings.
     So is the prayer of an unchaste person. It strives to climb the
     battlements of heaven, but because it is a flame of sulphur salt
     and bitumen, and was kindled in the dishonourable regions below,
     derived from Hell and contrary to God, it cannot pass forth to
     the element of love; but ends in barrenness and murmurs,
     fantastic expectations and trifling imaginative confidences; and
     they at last end in sorrows and despair."

Indeed, like all very florid writers, Taylor is liable to eclipses of taste; yet both the wording
of his flights and the occasion of them (they are to be found passim in the Sermons) are almost
wholly admirable. It is always a great and universal idea--never a mere conceit--that fires
him. The shortness and dangers of life, the weakness of children, the fragility of women's
beauty and men's strength, the change of the seasons, the vicissitudes of empires, the impossibility
of satisfying desire, the disgust which follows satiety--these are, if any one chooses, commonplace
enough; yet it is the observation of all who have carefully studied literature, and the experience
of all who have observed their own thoughts, that it is always in relation to these commonplaces
that the most beautiful expressions and the noblest sentiments arise. The uncommon thought
is too likely if not too certain to be an uncommon conceit, and if not worthless, yet of inferior
worth. Among prose writers Taylor is unequalled for his touches of this universal material,
for the genius with which he makes the common uncommon. For instance, he has the supreme faculty
of always making the verbal and the intellectual presentation of the thought alike beautiful,
of appealing to the ear and the mind at the same time, of never depriving the apple of gold
of its picture of silver. Yet for all this the charge of over-elaboration which may justly
be brought against Browne very rarely hits Taylor. He seldom or never has the appearance which
ornate writers of all times, and of his own more especially, so often have, of going back on
a thought or a phrase to try to better it--of being stimulated by actual or fancied applause
to cap the climax. His most beautiful passages come quite suddenly and naturally as the subject
requires and as the thought strikes light in his mind. Nor are they ever, as Milton's so often
are, marred by a descent as rapid as their rise. He is never below a certain decent level;
he may return to earth from heaven, but he goes no lower, and reaches even his lower level
by a quiet and equable sinking. As has been fully allowed, he has grave defects, the defects
of his time. But from some of these he was conspicuously free, and on the whole no one in English
prose (unless it be his successor here) has so much command of the enchanter's wand as Jeremy
Taylor.

Sir Thomas Browne was born in the heart of London in 1605, his father (of whom little is known
except one or two anecdotes corresponding with the character of the son) having been a merchant
of some property, and claiming descent from a good family in Cheshire. This father died when
he was quite young, and Browne is said to have been cheated by his guardians; but he was evidently
at all times of his life in easy circumstances, and seems to have had no complaint to make
of his stepfather, Sir Thomas Dutton. This stepfather may at least possibly have been the hero
of the duel with Sir Hatton Cheeke, which Mr. Carlyle has made famous. With him Browne visited
Ireland, having previously been brought up at Winchester and at Broadgates Hall, which became,
during his own residence, Pembroke College, at Oxford. Later he made the usual grand tour.
Then he took medical degrees; practised it is said, though on no very precise evidence, both
in Oxfordshire and Yorkshire; settled, why is not known, at Norwich; married in 1641 Dorothy
Mileham, a lady of good family in his adopted county; was a steady Royalist through the troubles;
acquired a great name for medical and scientific knowledge, though he was not a Fellow of the
Royal Society; was knighted by Charles II. in 1662, and died in 1682. His first literary appearance
had been made forty years earlier in a way very common in French literary history, but so uncommon
in English as to have drawn from Johnson a rather unwontedly illiberal sneer. At a time unknown,
but by his own account before his thirtieth year (therefore before 1635), Browne had written
the Religio Medici. It was, according to the habit of the time, copied and handed about in
MS. (there exist now five MS. copies showing remarkable differences with each other and the
printed copies), and in 1642 it got into print. A copy was sent by Lord Dorset to the famous
Sir Kenelm Digby, then under confinement for his opinions, and the husband of Venetia wrote
certain not very forcible and not wholly complimentary remarks which, as Browne was informed,
were at once put to press. A correspondence ensued, and Browne published an authorised copy,
in which perhaps a little "economy" might be noticed. The book made an extraordinary impression,
and was widely translated and commented on in foreign languages, though its vogue was purely
due to its intrinsic merits, and not at all to the circumstances which enabled Milton (rather
arrogantly and not with absolute truth) to boast that "Europe rang from side to side" with
his defence of the execution of Charles I. Four years later, in 1646, Browne published his
largest and in every sense most popular book, the Pseudodoxia Epidemica or Enquiry into Vulgar
Errors. Twelve more years passed before the greatest, from a literary point of view, of his
works, the Hydriotaphia or Urn-Burial,--a magnificent descant on the vanity of human life,
based on the discovery of certain cinerary urns in Norfolk,--appeared, in company with the
quaint Garden of Cyrus, a half-learned, half-fanciful discussion of the mysteries of the quincunx
and the number five. Nor did he publish anything more himself; but two collections of posthumous
works were issued after his death, the most important item of which is the Christian Morals,
and the total has been swelled since by extracts from his MSS., which at the death of his grandson
and namesake in 1710 were sold by auction. Most fortunately they were nearly all bought by
Sir Hans Sloane, and are to this day in the British Museum. Browne's good luck in this respect
was completed by the devotion of his editor, Simon Wilkin, a Norwich bookseller of gentle blood
and good education, who produced (1835) after twelve years' labour of love what Southey has
justly called the best edited book in the English language. Not to mention other editions,
the Religio Medici, which exhibits, owing to its history, an unusual variation of text, has
been, together with the Christian Morals, separately edited with great minuteness by Dr. Greenhill.
Nor is it unimportant to notice that Johnson, during his period of literary hack-work, also
edited Sir Thomas Browne, and wrote what Wilkin's good taste has permitted to be still the
standard text of his Life.

The work of this country doctor is, for personal savour, for strangeness, and for delight,
one of the most notable things in English literature. It is not of extraordinary voluminousness,
for though swollen in Wilkin's edition by abundant editorial matter, it fills but three of
the well-known volumes of Bohn's series, and, printed by itself, it might not much exceed two
ordinary library octavos; but in character and interest it yields to the work of no other English
prose writer. It may be divided, from our point of view, into two unequal parts, the smaller
of which is in truth of the greater interest. The Vulgar Errors, those of the smaller tracts
which deal with subjects of natural history (as most of them do), many of the commonplace book
entries, the greater part of the Garden of Cyrus, and most of the Letters, are mainly distinguished
by an interest of matter constantly increased, it is true, by the display of the author's racy
personality, and diversified here and there by passages also displaying his style to the full,
but in general character not differing from the works of other curious writers in the delightful
period which passed between the childish credulity of mediæval and classical physics and the
arid analysis of the modern "scientist." Sir Thomas Browne was of a certain natural scepticism
of temperament (a scepticism which, as displayed in relation to other matters in the Religio
Medici, very unjustly brought upon him the reproach of religious unorthodoxy); he was a trained
and indefatigable observer of facts, and he was by no means prepared to receive authority as
final in any extra-religious matters. But he had a thoroughly literary, not to say poetical
idiosyncrasy; he was both by nature and education disposed to seek for something more than
that physical explanation which, as the greatest of all anti-supernatural philosophers has
observed, merely pushes ignorance a little farther back; and he was possessed of an extraordinary
fertility of imagination which made comment, analogy, and amplification both easy and delightful
to him. But these dry, though important studies, did not exclusively occupy
his mind; he carried on, at the same time, a great variety of other
pursuits.

Like all men of an active and intellectual turn of mind, his recreation was found not in repose,
but in change of occupation.

Books of voyages and travels were collected, and read with avidity; he devoured rather than read
the classical remains of Greece and Rome. "That antiquity," said he,
"enchants me, and I am always ready to say with Pliny--You are going
to Athens; show respect to the gods."

It was under this feeling of devout gratitude to the master minds
of the ancient world, that he made his first essay in literature, which
came out in a small work in the form of letters, the object of which
was to show, that the idolatry of most Pagans did of itself not merit
eternal damnation.

Probably there are few good Christians, from Fénélon and Tillotson
downwards, who will be of an opposite opinion.

Even in that juvenile production are to be found traces of the sound
judgment, correct taste, and general thought which characterised his later
works.

But he was soon thrown into
the proper labours of his profession.

On the 24th February 1714, he was admitted into the parliament of Bourdeaux
as a councillor; and his paternal uncle, who held the president's chair,
having died two years after, young Montesquieu was, on the 13th July
1716, appointed to that important office, though only twenty-seven
years of age.
Probably his being thrown thus early in life into the discharge of
onerous and important duties, had an important effect in producing
that firmness and maturity of judgment by which his mind was subsequently
distinguished. Some years afterwards, he gave a convincing proof of
his fitness for the situation, in the vigour with which he remonstrated
against the imposition of a fresh tax on wine, which had the effect
of procuring its removal at the time, though the necessities of government
led to its being reimposed some years after. The following, from the
Christian Morals, is characteristic enough:--

     "Punish not thyself with pleasure; glut not thy sense with
     palative delights; nor revenge the contempt of temperance by the
     penalty of satiety. Were there an age of delight or any pleasure
     durable, who would not honour Volupia? but the race of delight is
     short, and pleasures have mutable faces. The pleasures of one age
     are not pleasures in another, and their lives fall short of our
     own. Even in our sensual days the strength of delight is in its
     seldomness or rarity, and sting in its satiety; mediocrity is its
     life, and immoderacy its confusion. The luxurious emperors of old
     inconsiderately satiated themselves with the dainties of sea and
     land till, wearied through all varieties, their refections became
     a study with them, and they were fain to feed by invention:
     novices in true epicurism! which by mediocrity, paucity, quick
     and healthful appetite, makes delights smartly acceptable;
     whereby Epicurus himself found Jupiter's brain in a piece of
     Cytheridian cheese, and the tongues of nightingales in a dish of
     onions. Hereby healthful and temperate poverty hath the start of
     nauseating luxury; unto whose clear and naked appetite every meal
     is a feast, and in one single dish the first course of Metellus;
     who are cheaply hungry, and never lose their hunger, or advantage
     of a craving appetite, because obvious food contents it; while
     Nero, half famish'd, could not feed upon a piece of bread, and,
     lingering after his snowed water, hardly got down an ordinary cup
     of Calda. By such circumscriptions of pleasure the contemned
     philosophers reserved unto themselves the secret of delight,
     which the Helluos of those days lost in their exorbitances. In
     vain we study delight; it is at the command of every sober mind,
     and in every sense born with us; but Nature, who teacheth us the
     rule of pleasure, instructeth also in the bounds thereof and
     where its line expireth. And therefore temperate minds, not
     pressing their pleasures until the sting appeareth, enjoy their
     contentations contentedly and without regret, and so escape the
     folly of excess, to be pleased unto displacency."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "Bring candid eyes unto the perusal of men's works, and let not
     Zoilism or detraction blast well-intended labours. He that
     endureth no faults in men's writings must only read his own,
     wherein for the most part all appeareth white. What if Plautus,
     in the account of Hercules, mistaketh nativity for conception?
     Who would have mean thoughts of Apollinaris Sidonius, who seems
     to mistake the river Tigris for Euphrates; and, though a good
     historian and learned Bishop of Auvergne, had the misfortune to
     be out in the story of David, making mention of him when the ark
     was sent back by the Philistines upon a cart, which was before
     his time? Though I have no great opinion of Machiavel's learning,
     yet I shall not presently say that he was but a novice in Roman
     History, because he was mistaken in placing Commodus after the
     Emperor Severus.

Coleridge, as we have seen, charges Browne with corrupting the style of the great age. The
charge is not just in regard to either of the two great faults which are urged against the
style, strictly speaking; while it is hardly just in reference to a minor charge which is brought
against what is not quite style, namely, the selection and treatment of the thought. The two
charges first referred to are Latinising of vocabulary and disorderly syntax of sentence. In
regard to the first, Browne Latinises somewhat more than Jeremy Taylor, hardly at all more
than Milton, though he does not, like Milton, contrast and relieve his Latinisms by indulgence
in vernacular terms of the most idiomatic kind; and he is conspicuously free from the great
fault both of Milton and of Taylor--the clumsy conglomeration of clauses which turns a sentence
into a paragraph, and makes a badly ordered paragraph of it after all. Browne's sentences,
especially those of the books regularly prepared for the press by him, are by no means long
and are usually very perspicuous, being separable in some cases into shorter sentences by a
mere mechanical repunctuation which, if tried on Taylor or Milton, would make nonsense. To
say that they are sometimes longer than they should be, and often awkwardly co-ordinated, is
merely to say that he wrote when he wrote; but he by no means sins beyond his fellows. In regard
to Latinisms his case is not so good. He constantly uses such words as "clarity" for "clearness,"
"ferity" for "fierceness" or "wildness," when nothing is gained by the exotic form. Dr. Greenhill's
useful glossary to the Religio and the Morals exhibits in tabular form not merely such terms
as "abbreviatures," "æquilibriously," "bivious," "convincible," "exantlation," and hundreds
of others with which there is no need to fill the page, but also a number only less considerable
of those far more objectionable usages which take a word generally understood in one sense
(as, for instance, "equable," "gratitudes," and many others), and by twisting or translation
of its classical equivalents and etymons give it some quite new sense in English. It is true
that in some cases the usual sense was not then firmly established, but Browne can hardly be
acquitted of wilfully preferring the obscurer.

Yet this hybrid and bizarre vocabulary is so admirably married to the substance of the writing
that no one of taste can find fault with it. For Browne (to come to the third point mentioned
above), though he never descends or diverges--whichever word may be preferred--to the extravagant
and occasionally puerile conceits which even such writers as Fuller and Glanville cannot resist,
has a quaintness at least equal to theirs. In no great writer is the unforeseen so constantly
happening. A fancy so whimsical as this, and yet so admirable in its whimsies, requires a style
in accordance; and the very sentence quoted, though one of the plainest of Browne's, and showing
clearly that he does not always abuse Latinising, would hardly be what it is without the word
"antipodes." So again in the Christian Morals, "Be not stoically mistaken in the quality of
sins, nor commutatively iniquitous in the valuation of transgressions." No expression so terse
and yet so striking could dispense with the classicism and the catachresis of "stoically."
And so it is everywhere with Browne. His manner is exactly proportioned to his matter; his
exotic and unfamiliar vocabulary to the strangeness and novelty of his thoughts. He can never
be really popular; but for the meditative reading of instructed persons he is perhaps the most
delightful of English prosemen.

There are probably few English writers in regard to whom the judgment of critics, usually ranked
as competent, has varied more than in regard to Edward Hyde, Earl of Clarendon. To some extent
this is easily intelligible to any one who, with some equipment, reads any considerable quantity
of his work; but it would be idle to pretend that the great stumbling-block of all criticism--the
attention to matter rather than to form--has had nothing to do with it. Clarendon, at first
not a very zealous Royalist, was the only man of decided literary genius who, with contemporary
knowledge, wrote the history of the great debate between king and commonwealth. The effect
of his history in deciding the question on the Royalist side was felt in England for more than
a century; and since popular judgment has somewhat veered round to the other side, its chief
exponents have found it necessary either to say as little as possible about Clarendon or to
depreciate him. His interesting political history cannot be detailed here. Of a good Cheshire
family, but not originally wealthy, he was educated as a lawyer, was early adopted into the
"tribe of Ben," and was among the first to take advantage of the opening which the disputes
between king and parliament gave to men of his birth, education, and gifts. At first he was
a moderate opponent of the king's attempts to dispense with parliament; but the growing evidence
that the House of Commons was seeking to increase its own constitutional power at the expense
of the prerogative, and especially the anti-Church tendencies of the parliamentary leaders,
converted him at first into a moderate and then into a strong Royalist. One of the chief of
the king's constitutional advisers, he was after the Restoration the most distinguished by
far of those Cavaliers who had parliamentary and constitutional experience; and with the title
and office of Chancellor, he exercised a practical premiership during the first seven years
of the Restoration. But ill-fortune, and it must be confessed some unwisdom, marked his government.
He has been often and truly said to have been a statesman of Elizabeth, born three-quarters
of a century too late. He was thought by the public to be arbitrary, a courtier, and even to
some extent corrupt. He seemed to the king to be a tiresome formalist and censor, who was only
scrupulous in resisting the royal will. So he was impeached; and, being compelled to quit the
kingdom, spent the last seven years of his life in France. His great works, begun during his
first exile and completed during his second, are the History of the Rebellion and his own Life,
the former being by much the more important though the latter (divided into a "Life" and a
"Continuation," the last of which starts from the Restoration) contains much interesting and
important biographical and historical matter. The text of these works was conveyed by his heirs
to the University of Oxford, and long remained an exception to the general rule of the terminableness
of copyright.

Clarendon is a very striking example of the hackneyed remark, that in some cases at any rate
men's merits are their own and their faults those of their time. His literary merits are, looked
at by themselves, of nearly the highest kind. He is certainly the best English writer (and
may challenge any foreigner without much fear of the result) in the great, difficult, and now
almost lost art of character-(or, as it was called in his time, portrait-) drawing--that is
to say, sketching in words the physical, moral, and mental, but especially the moral and mental,
peculiarities of a given person. Not a few of these characters of his are among the well-known
"beauties" justified in selection by the endorsement of half a dozen generations. They are
all full of life; and even where it may be thought that prejudice has had something to do with
the picture, still the subject lives, and is not a mere bundle of contradictory or even of
superficially compatible characteristics. Secondly, Clarendon is at his best an incomparable
narrator. Many of his battles, though related with apparent coolness, and without the slightest
attempt to be picturesque, may rank as works of art with his portraits, just as the portraits
and battle pieces of a great painter may rank together. The sober vivid touches, the little
bits of what the French call reportage or mere reproduction of the actual words and deeds of
the personages, the elaborate and carefully-concealed art of the composition, all deserve the
highest praise. Here, for instance, is a fair average passage, showing Clarendon's masterly
skill in summary narration and his equally masterly, though, as some hold, rather unscrupulous
faculty of insinuating depreciation:--

     "Since there will be often occasion to mention this gentleman,
     Sir Richard Granvil, in the ensuing discourse, and because many
     men believed that he was hardly dealt with in the next year,
     where all the proceedings will be set down at large, it will not
     be unfit in this place to say somewhat of him, and of the manner
     and merit of his entering into the king's service some months
     before the time we are now upon. He was of a very ancient and
     worthy family in Cornwall which had in several ages produced men
     of great courage, and very signal in their fidelity to and
     service of the crown; and was himself younger brother (though in
     his nature or humour not of kin to him) to the brave Sir Basil
     Granvil who so courageously lost his life at the battle of
     Lansdowne. Being a younger brother and a very young man, he went
     into the Low Countries to learn the profession of a soldier; to
     which he had devoted himself under the greatest general of that
     age, Prince Maurice, and in the regiment of my Lord Vere, who was
     general of all the English. In that service he was looked upon as
     a man of courage and a diligent officer, in the quality of a
     captain, to which he attained after four years' service. About
     this time, in the end of the reign of King James, the war broke
     out between England and Spain; and in the expedition to Cadiz
     this gentleman served as a major to a regiment of foot, and
     continued in the same command in the war that shortly after
     followed against France; and at the Isle of Rhé insinuated
     himself into the very good graces of the Duke of Buckingham, who
     was the general in that mission; and after the unfortunate
     retreat from thence was made colonel of a regiment with general
     approbation and as an officer that well deserved it.

     "His credit increased every day with the duke: who, out of the
     generosity of his nature, as a most generous person he was,
     resolved to raise his fortune; towards the beginning of which, by
     his countenance and solicitation, he prevailed with a rich widow
     to marry him, who had been a lady of extraordinary beauty, which
     she had not yet outlived; and though she had no great dower by
     her husband, a younger brother of the Earl of Suffolk, yet she
     inherited a fair fortune of her own near Plymouth, and was
     besides very rich in a personal estate, and was looked upon as
     the richest marriage of the West. This lady, by the duke's
     credit, Sir Richard Granvil (for he was now made a knight and
     baronet) obtained, and was thereby possessed of a plentiful
     estate upon the borders of his own country, and where his own
     family had great credit and authority. The war being now at an
     end and he deprived of his great patron, [he] had nothing to
     depend upon but the fortune of his wife: which, though ample
     enough to have supported the expense a person of his quality
     ought to have made, was not large enough to satisfy his vanity
     and ambition, nor so great as he upon common reports had
     possessed himself by her. By being not enough pleased with her
     fortune he grew displeased with his wife, who, being a woman of a
     haughty and imperious nature and of a wit superior to his,
     quickly resented the disrespect she received from him and in no
     respect studied to make herself easy to him. After some years
     spent together in those domestic unsociable contestations, in
     which he possessed himself of all her estate as the sole master
     of it, without allowing her out of her own any competency for
     herself, and indulged to himself all those licenses in her own
     house which to women are most grievous, she found means to
     withdraw herself from him; and was with all kindness received
     into that family in which she had before been married and was
     always very much respected."

To superficial observers, or observers who have convinced themselves that high lights and bright
colourings are of the essence of the art of the prose writer, Clarendon may seem tame and jejune.
He is in reality just the contrary. His wood is tough enough and close-grained enough, but
there is plenty of sap coursing through it. In yet a third respect, which is less closely connected
with the purely formal aspect of style, Clarendon stands, if not pre-eminent, very high among
historians. This is his union of acute penetration and vigorous grasp in the treatment of complicated
events. It has been hinted that he seems to have somewhat lost grasp, if not penetration, after
the Restoration. But at the time of his earlier participation in public affairs, and of his
composition of the greater part of his historical writings, he was in the very vigour and prime
of life; and though it may be that he was "a Janus of one face," and looked rather backward
than forward, even then he was profoundly acquainted with the facts of English history, with
the character of his countrymen, and with the relations of events as they happened. It may
even be contended by those who care for might-have-beens, that but for the headlong revolt
against Puritanism, which inspired the majority of the nation with a kind of carnival madness
for many years after 1660, and the strange deficiency of statesmen of even moderately respectable
character on both sides (except Clarendon himself, and the fairly upright though time-serving
Temple, there is hardly a respectable man to be found on any side of politics for forty years),
Clarendon's post-Restoration policy itself would not have been the failure that it was. But
it is certain that on the events of his own middle age he looked with the keenest discernment,
and with the widest comprehension.

Against these great merits must be set a treble portion of the great defect which, as we have
said, vitiates all the English prose work of his time, the unconscious or wilful ignoring of
the very fundamental principles of sentence-and paragraph-architecture. His mere syntax, in
the most restricted sense of that word, is not very bad; he seldom indulges out of mere incuria
in false concords or blunders over a relative. But he is the most offending soul alive at any
time in English literature in one grave point. No one has put together, or, to adopt a more
expressive phrase, heaped together such enormous paragraphs; no one has linked clause on clause,
parenthesis on parenthesis, epexegesis on exegesis, in such a bewildering concatenation of
inextricable entanglement. Sometimes, of course, the difficulty is more apparent than real,
and by simply substituting full stops and capitals for his colons and conjunctions, one may,
to some extent, simplify the chaos. But it is seldom that this is really effective: it never
produces really well balanced sentences and really well constructed paragraphs; and there are
constant instances in which it is not applicable at all. It is not that the jostling and confused
relatives are as a rule grammatically wrong, like the common blunder of putting an "and which"
where there is no previous "which" expressed or implied. They, simply, put as they are, bewilder
and muddle the reader because the writer has not taken the trouble to break up his sentence
into two or three. This is, of course, a very gross abuse, and except when the talents above
noticed either fuse his style into something better, or by the interest they excite divert
the attention of the reader, it constantly makes Clarendon anything but agreeable reading,
and produces an impression of dryness and prolixity with which he is not quite justly chargeable.
The plain truth is that, as has been said often before, and may have to be said more than once
again, the sense of proportion and order in prose composition was not born. The famous example--the
awful example--of Oliver Cromwell's speeches shows the worst-known instance of this; but the
best writers of Cromwell's own generation--far better educated than he, professed men of letters
after a fashion, and without the excuse of impromptu, or of the scurry of unnoted, speech--sometimes
came not far behind him.

Against one great writer of the time, however, no such charge can be justly brought. Although
much attention has recently been given to the philosophical opinions of Hobbes, since the unjust
prejudice against his religious and political ideas wore away, and since the complete edition
of his writings published at last in 1843 by Sir William Molesworth made him accessible, the
extraordinary merits of his style have on the whole had rather less than justice done to them.
He was in many ways a very singular person. Born at Malmesbury in the year of the Armada, he
was educated at Oxford, and early in the seventeenth century was appointed tutor to the eldest
son of Lord Hardwick, afterwards Earl of Devonshire. For full seventy years he was on and off
in the service of the Cavendish family; but sometimes acted as tutor to others, and both in
that capacity and for other reasons lived long abroad. In his earlier manhood he was much in
the society of Bacon, Jonson, and the literary folk of the English capital; and later he was
equally familiar with the society (rather scientific than literary) of Paris. In 1647 he was
appointed mathematical tutor to the Prince of Wales; but his mathematics were not his most
fortunate acquirement, and they involved him in long and acrimonious disputes with Wallis and
others--disputes, it may be said, where Hobbes was quite wrong. The publication of his philosophical
treatises, and especially of the Leviathan, brought him into very bad odour, not merely on
political grounds (which, so long as the Commonwealth lasted, would not have been surprising),
but for religious reasons; and during the last years of his life, and for long afterwards,
"Hobbist" was, certainly with very little warrant from his writings, used as a kind of polite
equivalent for atheist. He was pensioned after the Restoration, and the protection of the king
and the Earl of Devonshire kept him scatheless, if ever there was any real danger. Hobbes,
however, was a timid and very much self-centred person, always fancying that plots were being
laid against him. He died at the great age of ninety-two.

This long life was wholly taken up with study, but did not produce a very large amount of original
composition. It is true that his collected works fill sixteen volumes; but they are loosely
printed, and much space is occupied with diagrams, indices, and such like things, while a very
large proportion of the matter appears twice over, in Latin and in English. In the latter case
Hobbes usually wrote first in Latin, and was not always his own translator; but it would appear
that he generally revised the work, though he neither succeeded in obliterating nor perhaps
attempted to obliterate the marks of the original vehicle. His earliest publication was a singularly
vigorous, if not always scholastically exact, translation of Thucydides into English, which
appeared in 1629. Thirteen years later he published in Paris the De Cive, which was shortly
followed by the treatise on Human Nature and the De Corpore Politico. The latter of these was
to a great extent worked up in the famous Leviathan, or the Matter, Power, and Form of a Commonwealth,
which appeared in 1651. The important De Corpore, which corresponds to the Leviathan on the
philosophical side, appeared in Latin in 1655, in English next year. Besides minor works, Hobbes
employed his old age on a translation of Homer into verse, and on a sketch of the Civil Wars
called Behemoth.

His verse is a mere curiosity, though a considerable curiosity. The chief of it (the translation
of Homer written in the quatrain, which his friend Davenant's Gondibert had made popular) is
completely lacking in poetical quality, of which, perhaps, no man ever had less than Hobbes;
and it is written on a bad model. But it has so much of the nervous bull-dog strength which,
in literature if not in life, was Hobbes's main characteristic, that it is sometimes both a
truer and a better representative of the original than some very mellifluous and elegant renderings.
It is as a prose writer, however, that Hobbes made, and that he will keep, his fame. With his
principles in the various branches of philosophy we have little or nothing to do. In choosing
them he manifested, no doubt, something of the same defiance of authority, and the same self-willed
preference for his own not too well-educated opinion, which brought him to grief in his encounter
with Wallis. But when he had once left his starting points, his sureness of reasoning, his
extreme perspicacity, and the unerring clearness and certainty with which he kept before him,
and expressed exactly what he meant, made him at once one of the greatest thinkers and one
of the greatest writers of England. Hobbes never "pays himself with words," never evades a
difficulty by becoming obscure, never meanders on in the graceful allusive fashion of many
philosophers,--a fashion for which the prevalent faults of style were singularly convenient
in his time. He has no ornament, he does not seem to aim at anything more than the simplest
and most straightforward presentation of his views. But this very aim, assisted by his practice
in writing the terse and clear, if not very elegant, Latin which was the universal language
of the literary Europe of his time, suffices to preserve him from most of the current sins.
Moreover, it is fair to remember that, though the last to die, he was the first to be born
of the authors mentioned in this chapter, and that he may be supposed, late as he wrote, to
have formed his style before the period of Jacobean and Caroline luxuriance.

Almost any one of Hobbes's books would suffice to illustrate his style; but the short and interesting
treatise on Human Nature, perhaps, shows it at its best. The author's exceptional clearness
may be assisted by his lavish use of italics; but it is not necessary to read far in order
to see that it is in reality quite independent of any clumsy mechanical device. The crabbed
but sharply outlined style, the terse phrasing, the independence of all after-thoughts and
tackings-on, manifest themselves at once to any careful observer. Here for instance is a passage,
perhaps his finest, on Love, followed by a political extract from another work:--

     "Of love, by which is to be understood the joy man taketh in the
     fruition of any present good, hath been spoken already in the
     first section, chapter seven, under which is contained the love
     men bear to one another or pleasure they take in one another's
     company: and by which nature men are said to be sociable. But
     there is another kind of love which the Greeks call Erôs, and is
     that which we mean when we say that a man is in love: forasmuch
     as this passion cannot be without diversity of sex, it cannot be
     denied but that it participateth of that indefinite love
     mentioned in the former section. But there is a great difference
     betwixt the desire of a man indefinite and the same desire
     limited ad hunc: and this is that love which is the great theme
     of poets: but, notwithstanding their praises, it must be defined
     by the word need: for it is a conception a man hath of his need
     of that one person desired. The cause of this passion is not
     always nor for the most part beauty, or other quality in the
     beloved, unless there be withal hope in the person that loveth:
     which may be gathered from this, that in great difference of
     persons the greater have often fallen in love with the meaner,
     but not contrary. And from hence it is that for the most part
     they have much better fortune in love whose hopes are built on
     something in their person than those that trust to their
     expressions and service; and they that care less than they that
     care more: which not perceiving, many men cast away their
     services as one arrow after another, till, in the end, together
     with their hopes, they lose their wits."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "There are some who therefore imagine monarchy to be more
     grievous than democracy, because there is less liberty in that
     than in this. If by liberty they mean an exemption from that
     subjection which is due to the laws, that is, the commands of the
     people; neither in democracy nor in any other state of
     government whatsoever is there any such kind of liberty. If they
     suppose liberty to consist in this, that there be few laws, few
     prohibitions, and those too such that, except they were
     forbidden, there could be no peace; then I deny that there is
     more liberty in democracy than in monarchy; for the one as truly
     consisteth with such a liberty as the other. For although the
     word liberty may in large and ample letters be written over the
     gates of any city whatsoever, yet it is not meant the subjects'
     but the city's liberty; neither can that word with better right
     be inscribed on a city which is governed by the people than that
     which is ruled by a monarch. But when private men or subjects
     demand liberty under the name of liberty, they ask not for
     liberty but domination: which yet for want of understanding they
     little consider. For if every man would grant the same liberty to
     another which he desires for himself, as is commanded by the law
     of nature, that same natural state would return again in which
     all men may by right do all things; which if they knew they would
     abhor, as being worse than all kinds of civil subjection
     whatsoever. But if any man desire to have his single freedom, the
     rest being bound, what does he else demand but to have the
     dominion?"

It may be observed that Hobbes's sentences are by no means very short as far as actual length
goes. He has some on a scale which in strictness is perhaps hardly justifiable. But what may
generally be asserted of them is that the author for the most part is true to that great rule,
of logic and of style alike, which ordains that a single sentence shall be, as far as possible,
the verbal presentation of a single thought, and not the agglomeration and sweeping together
of a whole string and tissue of thoughts. It is noticeable, too, that Hobbes is very sparing
of the adjective--the great resource and delight of flowery and discursive writers. Sometimes,
as in the famous comparison of human life to a race (where, by the way, a slight tendency to
conceit manifests itself, and makes him rather force some of his metaphors), his conciseness
assumes a distinctly epigrammatic form; and it is constantly visible also in his more consecutive
writings.

In the well-known passage on Laughter as "a passion of sudden glory" the writer may be charged
with allowing his fancy too free play; though I, for my part, am inclined to consider the explanation
the most satisfactory yet given of a difficult phenomenon. But the point is the distinctness
with which Hobbes puts this novel and, at first sight, improbable idea, the apt turns and illustrations
(standing at the same time far from the excess of illustration and analogy, by which many writers
of his time would have spun it out into a chapter if not into a treatise), the succinct, forcible,
economical adjustment of the fewest words to the clearest exposition of thought. Perhaps these
things strike the more as they are the more unlike the work in juxtaposition with which one
finds them; nor can it be maintained that Hobbes's style is suitable for all purposes. Admirable
for argument and exposition, it is apt to become bald in narration, and its abundance of clearness,
when translated to less purely intellectual subjects, may even expose it to the charge of being
thin. Such a note as that struck in the Love passage above given is rare, and sets one wondering
whether the dry-as-dust philosopher of Malmesbury, the man who seems to have had hardly any
human frailties except vanity and timidity, had himself felt the bitterness of counting on
expressions and services, the madness of throwing away one effort after another to gain the
favour of the beloved. But it is very seldom that any such suggestion is provoked by remarks
of Hobbes's. His light is almost always dry; and in one sense, though not in another, a little
malignant. Yet nowhere is there to be found a style more absolutely suited, not merely to the
author's intentions but to his performances--a form more exactly married to matter. Nor anywhere
is there to be found a writer who is more independent of others. He may have owed something
to his friend Jonson, in whose Timber there are resemblances to Hobbes; but he certainly owed
nothing, and in all probability lent much, to the Drydens, and Tillotsons, and Temples, who
in the last twenty years of his own life reformed English prose.

CHAPTER X

CAROLINE POETRY

There are few periods of poetical development in English literary history which display, in
a comparatively narrow compass, such well-marked and pervading individuality as the period
of Caroline poetry, beginning, it may be, a little before the accession of Charles I., but
terminating as a producing period almost before the real accession of his son. The poets of
this period, in which but not of which Milton is, are numerous and remarkable, and at the head
of them all stands Robert Herrick.

Very little is really known about Herrick's history. That he was of a family which, distinguished
above the common, but not exactly reaching nobility, had the credit of producing, besides himself,
the indomitable Warden Heyrick of the Collegiate Church of Manchester in his own times, and
the mother of Swift in the times immediately succeeding his, is certain. That he was born in
London in 1591, that he went to Cambridge, that he had a rather stingy guardian, that he associated
to some extent with the tribe of Ben in the literary London of the second decade of the century,
is also certain. At last and rather late he was appointed to a living at Dean Prior in Devonshire,
on the confines of the South Hams and Dartmoor. He did not like it, being of that class of
persons who cannot be happy out of a great town. After the Civil War he was deprived, and his
successor had not the decency (the late Dr. Grosart, constant to his own party, made a very
unsuccessful attempt to defend the delinquent) to pay him the shabby pittance which the intruders
were supposed to furnish to the rightful owners of benefices. At the Restoration he too was
restored, and survived it fifteen years, dying in 1674; but his whole literary fame rests on
work published a quarter of a century before his death, and pretty certainly in great part
written many years earlier.

The poems which then appeared were divided, in the published form, into two classes: they may
be divided, for purposes of poetical criticism, into three. The Hesperides (they are dated
1648, and the Noble Numbers or sacred poems 1647; but both appeared together) consist in the
first place of occasional poems, sometimes amatory, sometimes not; in the second, of personal
epigrams. Of this second class no human being who has any faculty of criticism can say any
good. They are supposed by tradition to have been composed on parishioners: they may be hoped
by charity (which has in this case the support of literary criticism) to be merely literary
exercises--bad imitations of Martial, through Ben Jonson. They are nastier than the nastiest
work of Swift; they are stupider than the stupidest attempts of Davies of Hereford; they are
farther from the author's best than the worst parts of Young's Odes are from the best part
of the Night Thoughts. It is impossible without producing specimens (which God forbid that
any one who has a respect for Herrick, for literature, and for decency, should do) to show
how bad they are. Then observe the schemes they projected. Conquests, consolidations, empires, dominion,
and to include my own project, a bullion bank with a ten-acre vault.

It appears that a lack of capital was at the bottom of all their plans. Alexander confessed that he was
bankrupt for lack of more worlds, and is reputed to have shed tears
over his failure, which might have been expected from a modern dry-goods
jobber, but not from Alexander.

Cæsar and Bonaparte failed for the want of men: they do not seem to have been aware of the existence
of Rhode Island.

I think Burr failed for the lack of impudence--he had more than all
the rest of the world together, but he needed much more than that
to push his projects ahead of his times.

As
for myself, when I have doubled my capital, I shall found my bullion
bank in the face of all opposition.

The
ten-acre lot at the corner of Broadway and Wall street is already
selected and paid for, and I shall excavate as soon as the present
crop is off.

There is no question that the occupation of banking conduces to literary pursuits.
When I take interest out of my fellow beings, I naturally take interest
in them, and so fall to writing about them. I have in my portfolio sketches
of all the leading merchants of the age, romantically wrought, and
full of details of their private lives, hopes, fears, and pleasures. These
men that go up town every day have had, and still have, little fanciful
excursions that are quite amusing when an observer of my talent notes
them down. I know all about old Boscobello, the Spanish merchant,
of the house of Boscobello, Bolaso & Co. My romance of his life from
twenty to forty fills three volumes, and is as exciting as the diaries
of those amusing French people whom Bossuet preached to with such
small effect.

Boscobello has sobered since forty, and begs for loans as an old business
man ought to.

I think he sees the error of his ways, and is anxious to repair his fortunes to the old point, but
it is easier to spend a million than to make it.

My cashier reports his account overdrawn the other day, and not made
good till late next afternoon.

This is a sign of failing circumstances, and must be attended to.

When Boscobello comes in about half past two of an afternoon for the
usual loan of a hundred dollars to enable him to go on, I amuse myself
by talking to him while I look over his securities.

He has two or three loans to pay up before three o'clock, in different parts of the town, and we cannot
blame him for being in a hurry, but this is no concern of mine.

If he will get into a tight place, one may surely take one's time at helping him out: and really
it does require some little time to investigate the class of securities he brings, and which are
astonishingly varied.

For instance, he brought me to-day as collateral to an accommodation, a
deed to a South Brooklyn block, title clouded; a Mackerelville second
mortgage; ten shares of coal-oil stock; an undivided quarter right
in a guano island, and the note of a President of the Unterrified
Insurance Company.

'How
much was the cartage, Bos?' said I, for you see my great mind descends
to the smallest particulars, and I was benevolent enough to wish to
deduct his expenses from the bonus I was about to charge him for the
loan.

       'Never mind the cartage,' said he, 'that's a very strong list, and will
command the money any day in Wall street, but I have a particular reason for getting
it of you.' 'The particular reason being,' said I, 'that you can't get
it anywhere else. Jennings,' I continued to my cashier, 'give Mr.
Boscobello ninety-five dollars Norfolk or Richmond due-bills, and
take his check payable in current funds next Saturday for a hundred.'

Poor
old Boscobello!

A man
at forty ought not to look old, but Bos had often seen the sun rise
before he went to bed, and he had been gay, so all my aunts said.

    
      
    Some stories Bos has told
      me himself, o' nights at my house, after having in vain endeavored
to induce me to take shares in the guano island, or 'go into' South
Brooklyn water lots.

    'I'm too old for that sort of a thing,
      Bos,' I say; 'it's quite
    natural for you to ask me, and
      I don't blame you for trying it on, but you must find some younger
man.

Tell me about that little
affair with the mysterious Cuban lady; when you only weighed a hundred
and forty pounds, and never went out without a thousand dollars in your
pocket--in the blooming days of youth, Bos, when you went plucking
purple pansies along the shore.'

Boscobello weighs over two hundred
now, and would have a rush of blood to the head if he were to stoop
to pluck pansies.

Mysterious Cuban ladies, in fact ladies of any description, would pass
him by as a middle-aged person of a somewhat distressed appearance, and the dreams
of his youth are quite dreamed out. Nevertheless, when he warms with
my white Hermitage, the colors of his old life come richly out into
sight, and the romantic adventures of wealth and high spirits overpower,
though in the tame measures of recital, all the adverse influences
of the present hour.

But as the evening wanes, the colors fade again; his voice assumes a dreary
tone; and I once more feel that I am with a man who has outlived
himself, and who, having never learned where the late roses blow,
is now too old to learn.

The reader will perceive I am sorry for Boscobello.

If I am remarkable for anything, it is for my humanity, consideration, and sympathy.

These qualities of my constitution lead me to enter into the affairs
of my clients with feeling and sincerity, but I fear I am sometimes
misunderstood.

Not long ago I issued an order to my junior partners to exercise more compassion for those unfortunate men
with whom we decline business, and not to tumble them down the front steps
so roughly.

Let six of the porters attend with trestles, I said, and carry them out carefully, and dump them
with discretion in some quiet corner, where, as soon as they recover
their faculties, they may get up and walk away.

I put it to the reader if this was not a very humane idea, and yet there are those who have stigmatized
it as heartless.

I wish I was better acquainted with the way in which common people
live.

I can see how I have made mistakes in consequence of not understanding
the restricted means and the exigencies of these people, who are styled respectable
merchants. Thus when Boscobello has made some more than ordinarily piteous
application, I have said, 'Boscobello, dismiss about fifty of your
servants;' or, 'Boscobello, sell a railroad and put the money back
again into your business;' or, 'Boscobello, my good friend, limit
your table, say, to turtle soup, champagne, and truffles; live more
plainly, and don't take above ten quarts of strawberries a day during
the winter,--the lower servants don't really need them;' or, 'Boscobello,
if you are really short, send around a hundred or so of your fast
trotters to my stables, and I'll pay you a long figure for them, if
they are warranted under two minutes.' Boscobello has never made any
very definite replies to such advice, and I have attributed his silence
to his nervousness; but I begin to suspect he has'nt quite understood
me on such occasions.

Then again, when Twigsmith declared he was a ruined man, in consequence
of my refusal of further advances, and that he should be unable to provide
for his family, I said: 'Why, Twigsmith, retire to one of your country
seats, and live on the interest of some canal or other, or discount
bonds and mortgages for the country banks.' Actually, I heard Twigsmith
mutter as he went out, that it wasn't right to insult a man's poverty.

Now I hadn't the remotest idea of injuring Twigsmith's feelings, for he was a very clever fellow, and
we made a good thing out of him in his time, but it seems that my advice might not have been properly
grounded.

It begins to occur to me that there may be such a case as that a man
may want something, and not be able to get it; and again, that at
such a time a weak mind may complain, and grow discouraged, and make
itself disagreeable to others.

There is a set of old fellows who call themselves family men, and
apply for discounts as if they had a right to them, by reason of
their having families to provide for.

I have never yet been able to see the logical sequence of their conclusions,
and so I tell them. What right does it give anybody to my money that
he has a wife, six children, and lives in a large house with three
nursery-maids, a cook, and a boy to clean the knives? 'Limit your expenses,'
I say to these respectable gentlemen, 'do as I do. When Jennings
comes to me on Monday morning, and reports that the receipts of the week
will be eighty millions, exclusive of the Labrador coupons, which,
if paid, will be eighty millions more, I say, 'Jennings, discount
seventy, and don't encroach upon the reserves; you may however let
Boscobello have ten on call.' This is true philosophy; adapt your
outlay to your income, and you will never be in trouble, or go begging
for loans.

If the Bank of England had always managed in this way, they wouldn't
have been obliged to call on our house for assistance during the Irish
famine.'

These family men invite me to their wives' parties, constantly, unremittingly.
The billets sometimes reach my desk, although I have given orders
to put them all into the waste basket unopened. I went to one of these
parties, only one, I give you my honor as a gentleman, and after
Twigsmith and his horrid wife had almost wrung my hand off, I was
presented to a young female, to whom Nature had been tolerably kind,
but who was most shamefully dressed.

In fact her dress couldn't have cost over a thousand dollars--one of my chambermaids going to a
Teutonia ball is better got up.

This young person asked me 'how I liked the Germania?' Taking it for granted
that such a badly dressed young woman must be a school teacher, with perhaps
classical tastes, I replied that it was one of the most pleasing compositions
of Tacitus, and that I occasionally read it of a morning. 'Oh, it's
not very taciturn,' she replied; 'I mean the band.' 'Very true,'
said I, 'he says agmen, which you translate band very happily, though
I might possibly say 'body' in a familiar reading.' 'Oh dear,' she
replied, blushing, 'I'm sure I don't know what kind of men they are,
nor anything about their bodies, but they certainly seem very respectable,
and they play elegantly; oh, don't you think so?' 'I am glad you are
pleased so easily,' I answered; 'Tacitus describes their performances
as indeed fearful, and calculated to strike horror into the hearts
of their enemies.

But,' continued I, endeavoring to make my retreat, for I began to think I was in company with
an inmate of a private lunatic hospital, 'they were devoted to the
ladies.' 'Indeed they are,' said she,'and the harpist is so gallant,
and gets so many nice bouquets.' It then flashed across my mind that
she meant the Germania musicians. 'They might do passably well, madame,'
said I, 'for a quadrille party at a country inn, but for a dress
ball or a dinner you would need three of them rolled into one.' 'Oh,
you gentlemen are so hard to please,' she replied; and catching sight
of the Koh-i-noor on my little finger, she began to smile so sweetly
that I fled at once.

It was at that party that I perspired.

I had heard doctors talk about perspiration, and I had seen waiters at a dinner with little drops on
their faces, but I supposed it was the effect of a spatter, or that some champagne had flown into
their eyes, or something of that sort. But at this party I happened to pass a mirror, and did it the honor
to look into it. I saw there the best dressed man in America, but his face was flushed, and there were
drops on it.

This is fearful, thought I; I took my mouchoir and gently removed them.
They dampened the delicate fabric, and I shook with agitation. The large doors
were open, and after a struggle of an hour and three quarters, I reached
them, and promising the hostess to send my valet in the morning to make my respects,
which the present exigency would not allow me to stay to accomplish, I
was rapidly whirled homeward. I can hardly pen the details, but
on the removal of my linen, it was found--can I go on?--tumbled,
and here and there the snowy lawn confessed a small damp spot, or fleck
of moisture. Remorse and terror seized me. Medical attendance was
called, and I passed the night in a bath of attar of roses delicately
medicated with aqua pura. Of course, I have never again appeared at a party.

People
haven't right ideas of entertainment. What entertainment is it to stand
all the evening in a set of sixteen-by-twenty parlors, jammed in among
all sorts of strange persons, and stranger perfumes, deafened with
a hubbub of senseless talk, and finally be led down to feed at a
long table where the sherry is hot, and the partridges are cold?

Very probably some boy or other across the table lets off a champagne
cork into your eyes, and the fattest men in the room will tread on your
toes. One might describe such scenes of torture at length, but the recital
of human follies and miseries is not agreeable to my sensibilities.

I dare say the reader might find himself gratified at one of my little
fètes. The editors of this journal attend them regularly, and have
done me the honor to approve of them. You enter on Twelfth avenue;
a modest door just off Nine-and-a-half street opens quietly, and you are
ushered by a polite gentleman--one of our city bank presidents, who
takes this means to increase his income--into an attiring room.

Here you are dressed by the most accomplished Schneider of the age, in your own selections from an
unequalled repertoire of sartorial chef d'ouvres, and your old clothes
are sent home in an omnibus.

I might delight you with a description of the ball room, but the editors
have requested me to the contrary.

Some secrets of gorgeous splendor there are which are wisely concealed from the general gaze. But a floor
three hundred feet square, and walls as high as the mast of an East
Boston clipper, confer ample room for motion; and the unequalled atmosphere
of the saloon is perhaps unnecessarily refreshed by fountains of rarest
distilled waters.

This is also my picture gallery, where all mythology is exhausted
by the great painters of the antique; and modern art is thoroughly
illustrated by the famous landscapes of both hemispheres.

The luxuriant fancy of my favorite
artist has suggested unique collocations of aquaria and mossy grottoes
in the angles of the apartment, where the vegetable wealth of the
tropics rises in perfect bounty and lawless exuberance, and fishes
of every hue and shape flash to and fro among the tangled roots,
in the light of a thousand lamps.

In the centre, I have caused the seats of the orchestra to be hidden
at the summit of a picturesque group of rocks, profusely hung with vegetation,
and gemmed with a hundred tiny fountains that trickle in bright beads
and diamonds into the reservoir at the base.

    
    

From this eminence, the melody of sixty unequalled performers pervades the saloon, justly diffused,
and on all sides the same; unlike the crude arrangements of most
modern orchestras, where at one end of the room you are deluged with
music, and at the other extremity you distinguish the notes with pain
or difficulty.

The ceiling, by a rare combination of mechanical ingenuity and artistic
inspiration, displays, so as to quite deceive the senses, the heavens
with all their stars moving in just and harmonious order.

    
    
    Here on summer nights you see Lyra and Altair
    triumphantly blazing in the middle sky as they sweep
    their mighty arch through the ample zenith; and low in the south, the
Scorpion crawls along the verge with the red Antares at his heart,
and the bright arrows of the Archer forever pursuing him.

    
    
    Here in winter, gazing up through the warm and perfumed
    air, you behold those bright orbs that immemorially
    suggest the icy blasts of January: Aldebaran; the mighty suns of Orion;
diamond-like Capella; and the clear eyes of the Gemini. Under such influences,
with the breath of the tropics in your nostrils, and your heart stirred
by the rich melodies of the invisible orchestra, waltzing becomes
a sublime passion, in which all your faculties dilate to utmost expansion,
and you float out into happy forgetfulness of time and destiny.

    
    
    
    
    Rarely at these fêtes do we dance to other measures than those of the
waltz, though at times we find a relief from the luxuriance of that
divine rhythm in the cooler cadences of the Schottish.

By universal consent and instinct, we banish the quadrille, stiff and
artificial; the polka, inelegant and essentially vulgar; and the various hybrid
measures with which the low ingenuity of professors has filled society.
But we move like gods and goddesses to the sadly joyful strains of
Strauss and Weber and Beethoven and Mozart, and the mighty art of
these great masters fills and re-creates all our existence.

Sometimes in these divine hours, thrilled by the touch of a companion
whose heart beats against and consonantly with mine, I catch glimpses
of the possibilities of a free life of the spirit when it shall be
released from earth and gravitation, and I conjecture the breadth
of a future existence.

This will only seem irrational to such as have squeezed out their souls
flat between the hard edges of dollars, or have buried them among theologic
texts which they are too self-wise to understand. History and the experience
of the young are with me.

From twelve to four you sup, when, and as, and where, you will. A succession
of little rooms lie open around an atrium, all different as to size
and ornament, yet none too large for a single couple, and none too
small for the reunion of six.

    
    
    
    
     The cardinal procured him a canonry at Loretto, and this he hastened
to take up, but died in 1649 with suspicions of poison, which are not impossibly, but at the
same time by no means necessarily true. His poems had already appeared under the double title
of Steps to the Temple (sacred), and Delights of the Muses (profane), but not under his own
editorship, or it would seem with his own choice of title. Several other editions followed,--one
later than his death, with curious illustrations said to be, in part at least, of his own design.
Manuscript sources, as in the case of some other poets of the time, have considerably enlarged
the collection since. But a great part of it consists of epigrams (in the wide sense, and almost
wholly sacred) in the classical tongues, which were sometimes translated by Crashaw himself.
These are not always correct in style or prosody, but are often interesting. The famous line
in reference to the miracle of Cana,

    "Vidit et erubuit nympha pudica Deum,"

is assigned to Crashaw as a boy at Cambridge; of his later faculty in the same way the elaborate
and, in its way, beautiful poem entitled Bulla (the Bubble) is the most remarkable.

Our chief subject, however, is the English poems proper, sacred and profane. In almost all
of these there is noticeable an extraordinary inequality, the same in kind, if not in degree,
as that on which we have commented in the case of The Flaming Heart. Crashaw is never quite
so great as there; but he is often quite as small. His exasperating lack of self-criticism
has sometimes led selectors to make a cento out of his poems--notably in the case of the exceedingly
pretty "Wishes to His Unknown Mistress," beginning, "Whoe'er she be, That not impossible she,
That shall command my heart and me"--a poem, let it be added, which excuses this dubious process
much less than most, inasmuch as nothing in it is positively bad, though it is rather too long.
Here is the opening, preceded by a piece from another poem, "A Hymn to Saint Theresa":--

    "Those rare works, where thou shalt leave writ
    Love's noble history, with wit
    Taught thee by none but him, while here
    They feed our souls, shall clothe thine there
    Each heavenly word by whose hid flame
    Our hard hearts shall strike fire, the same
    Shall flourish on thy brows and be
    Both fire to us and flame to thee:
    Whose light shall live bright, in thy face
    By glory, in our hearts by grace.

    "Thou shalt look round about, and see
    Thousands of crown'd souls throng to be
    Themselves thy crown, sons of thy vows:
    The virgin births with which thy spouse
    Made fruitful thy fair soul; go now
    And with them all about thee, bow
    To Him, 'Put on' (He'll say) 'put on,
    My rosy love, that thy rich zone,
    Sparkling with the sacred flames,
    Of thousand souls whose happy names
    Heaven heaps upon thy score, thy bright
    Life brought them first to kiss the light
    That kindled them to stars.' And so
    Thou with the Lamb thy Lord shall go,
    And whereso'er He sets His white
    Steps, walk with Him those ways of light.
    Which who in death would live to see
    Must learn in life to die like thee."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Whoe'er she be,
    That not impossible she,
    That shall command my heart and me;

    "Where'er she lie,
    Lock'd up from mortal eye,
    In shady leaves of destiny;

    "Till that ripe birth
    Of studied Fate stand forth,
    And teach her fair steps to our earth:

    "Till that divine
    Idea take a shrine
    Of crystal flesh, through which to shine:

    "Meet you her, my wishes
    Bespeak her to my blisses,
    And be ye call'd, my absent kisses."

The first hymn to Saint Theresa, to which The Flaming Heart is a kind of appendix, was written
when Crashaw was still an Anglican (for which he did not fail, later, to make a characteristic
and very pretty, though quite unnecessary, apology). It has no passage quite up to the Invocation--Epiphonema,
to give it the technical term--of the later poem. But it is, on the contrary, good almost throughout,
and is, for uniform exaltation, far the best of Crashaw's poems. Yet such uniform exaltation
must be seldom sought in him. It is in his little bursts, such as that in the stanza beginning,
"O mother turtle dove," that his charm consists. Often, as in verse after verse of The Weeper,
it has an unearthly delicacy and witchery which only Blake, in a few snatches, has ever equalled;
while at other times the poet seems to invent, in the most casual and unthinking fashion, new
metrical effects and new jewelries of diction which the greatest lyric poets since--Coleridge,
Shelley, Lord Tennyson, Mr. Swinburne--have rather deliberately imitated than spontaneously
recovered. Yet to all this charm there is no small drawback. The very maddest and most methodless
of the "Metaphysicals" cannot touch Crashaw in his tasteless use of conceits. When he, in The
Weeper just above referred to, calls the tears of Magdalene "Wat'ry brothers," and "Simpering
sons of those fair eyes," and when, in the most intolerable of all the poet's excesses, the
same eyes are called "Two waking baths, two weeping motions, Portable and compendious oceans,"
which follow our Lord about the hills of Galilee, it is almost difficult to know whether to
feel most contempt or indignation for a man who could so write. It is fair to say that there
are various readings and omissions in the different editions which affect both these passages.
Yet the offence is that Crashaw should ever have written them at all. Amends, however, are
sure to be made before the reader has read much farther. Crashaw's longest poems--a version
of Marini's Sospetto d'Herode, and one of the rather overpraised "Lover and Nightingale" story
of Strada--are not his best; the metre in which both are written, though the poet manages it
well, lacks the extraordinary charm of his lyric measures. It does not appear that the "Not
impossible she" ever made her appearance, and probably for a full half of his short life Crashaw
burnt only with religious fire. But no Englishman has expressed that fire as he has, and none
in his expression of any sentiment, sacred and profane, has dropped such notes of ethereal
music. At his best he is far above singing, at his worst he is below a very childish prattle.
But even then he is never coarse, never offensive, not very often actually dull; and everywhere
he makes amends by flowers of the divinest poetry. Mr. Pope, who borrowed not a little from
him, thought, indeed, that you could find nothing of "The real part of poetry" (correct construction
and so forth) in Crashaw; and Mr. Hayley gently rebukes Cowley (after observing that if Pope
borrowed from Crashaw, it was "as the sun borrows from the earth") for his "glowing panegyrick."
Now, if the real part of poetry is anywhere in Hayley, or quintessentially in Pope, it certainly
is not in Crashaw.

The group or school (for it is not easy to decide on either word, and objections might be taken
to each) at the head of which Herrick, Carew, and Crashaw must be placed, and which included
Herbert and his band of sacred singers, included also not a few minor groups, sufficiently
different from each other, but all marked off sharply from the innovating and classical school
of Waller and his followers, which it is not proposed to treat in this volume. All, without
exception, show the influence in different ways of Ben Jonson and of Donne. But each has its
own peculiarity. We find these peculiarities, together with anticipations of post-Reformation
characteristics, mixed very curiously in the miscellanies of the time. These are interesting
enough, and may be studied with advantage, if not also with pleasure, in the principal of them,
Wit's Recreations (1640). This, with certain kindred works (Wit Restored, and the very unsavoury
Musarum Deliciæ of Sir John Mennis and Dr. Smith), has been more than once republished. In
these curious collections, to mention only one instance, numerous pieces of Herrick's appeared
with considerable variants from the text of the Hesperides; and in their pages things old and
new, charming pastoral poems, vers de société of very unequal merit, ballads, satires, epigrams,
and a large quantity of mere scatology and doggerel, are heaped together pell-mell. Songs from
the dramatists, especially Fletcher, make their appearance, sometimes with slight variants,
and there are forms of the drinking song in Gammer Gurton's Needle long after, and of Sir John
Suckling's "Ballad on a Wedding," apparently somewhat before, their respective publication
in their proper places. Here is the joke about the wife and the almanack which reckless tradition
has told of Dryden; printed when Lady Elizabeth Howard was in the nursery, and Dryden was not
yet at Westminster. Here we learn how, probably about the second or third decade of the century,
the favourite authors of learned ladies were "Wither, Draiton, and Balzack" (Guez de Balzac
of the Letters), a very singular trio; and how some at least loved the "easy ambling" of Heywood's
prose, but thought that he "grovelled on the stage," which it must be confessed he not uncommonly
did. Wit Restored contains the charming "Phillida flouts Me," with other real "delights." Even
Milton makes his appearance in these collections, which continued to be popular for more than
a century, and acquired at intervals fresh vogue from the great names of Dryden and Pope.

Neglecting or returning from these, we may class the minor Caroline poets under the following
heads. There are belated Elizabethans like Habington, sacred poets of the school of Herbert,
translators like Stanley, Sherburne, and Quarles, philosophico-theological poets like Joseph
Beaumont and More, and poets of society, such as Lovelace and Suckling, whose class degenerated
into a class of boon companion song-writers, such as Alexander Brome, and, at the extremity
of our present period, Charles Cotton, in whose verse (as for the matter of that in the famous
muses of Lovelace and Suckling themselves) the rapidly degenerating prosody of the time is
sometimes painfully evident. This is also apparent (though it is compensated by much exquisite
poetry, and on the strictly lyric side rarely offends) in the work of Randolph, Corbet, Cartwright,
Chamberlayne of the Pharonnida, Sidney Godolphin, Shakerley Marmion, Cleveland, Benlowes, Kynaston,
John Hall, the enigmatic Chalkhill, Patrick Carey, Bishop King. These about exhaust the list
of poets who must be characterised here, though it could be extended. Cowley, Marvell, and
Waller fall outside our limits.

George Herbert, the one popular name, if we except Lovelace and Suckling, of the last paragraph,
was born at Montgomery Castle in 1593, of the great house now represented in the English peerage
by the holders of the titles of Pembroke, Carnarvon, and Powis. George was the younger brother
of the equally well-known Lord Herbert of Cherbury; and after being for some years public orator
at Cambridge, turned, it is said, on some despite or disappointment, from secular to sacred
business, accepted the living of Bemerton, and, after holding it for a short time, died in
1633. Walton's Life was hardly needed to fix Herbert in the popular mind, for his famous volume
of sacred poems, The Temple, would have done so, and has done so far more firmly. It was not
his only book by any means; he had displayed much wit as quite a boy in counter-lampooning
Andrew Melville's ponderous and impudent Anti-Tami-Cami-Categoria, an attack on the English
universities; and afterwards he wrote freely in Greek, Latin, and English, both in prose and
verse. Nothing, however, but The Temple has held popular estimation, and that has held it firmly,
being as much helped by the Tractarian as by the Romantic movement. It may be confessed without
shame and without innuendo that Herbert has been on the whole a greater favourite with readers
than with critics, and the reason is obvious. He is not prodigal of the finest strokes of poetry.
To take only his own contemporaries, and undoubtedly pupils, his gentle moralising and devotion
are tame and cold beside the burning glow of Crashaw, commonplace and popular beside the intellectual
subtlety and, now and then, the inspired touch of Vaughan. But he never drops into the flatness
and the extravagance of both these writers, and his beauties, assuredly not mean in themselves,
and very constantly present, are both in kind and in arrangement admirably suited to the average
comprehension. He is quaint and conceited; but his quaintnesses and conceits are never beyond
the reach of any tolerably intelligent understanding. He is devout, but his devotion does not
transgress into the more fantastic regions of piety. He is a mystic, but of the more exoteric
school of mysticism. He expresses common needs, common thoughts, the everyday emotions of the
Christian, just sublimated sufficiently to make them attractive. The fashion and his own taste
gave him a pleasing quaintness, which his good sense kept from being ever obscure or offensive
or extravagant. The famous "Sweet day so cool, so calm, so bright," and many short passages
which are known to every one, express Herbert perfectly. The thought is obvious, usual, in
no sense far fetched. The morality is plain and simple. The expression, with a sufficient touch
of the daintiness of the time, has nothing that is extraordinarily or ravishingly felicitous
whether in phrasing or versing. He is, in short, a poet whom all must respect; whom those that
are in sympathy with his vein of thought cannot but revere; who did England an inestimable
service, by giving to the highest and purest thoughts that familiar and abiding poetic garb
which contributes so much to fix any thoughts in the mind, and of which, to tell the truth,
poetry has been much more prodigal to other departments of thought by no means so well deserving.
But it is impossible to call him a great poet even in his own difficult class. The early Latin
hymn writers are there to show what a great religious poet must be like. Crashaw, if his genius
had been less irregular and jaculative, might have been such. Herbert is not, and could not
have been. With him it is an almost invariable custom to class Vaughan the "Silurist," and
a common one to unite George Sandys, the traveller, translator of Ovid, and paraphrast of the
Psalms and other parts of the Bible. Sandys, an older man than Herbert by fifteen, and than
Vaughan by more than forty years, published rather late, so that he came as a sacred poet after
Herbert, and not long before Vaughan. He was son of the Archbishop of York, and brother of
that Edwin Sandys who was a pupil of Hooker, and who is said to have been present on the melancholy
occasion when the judicious one was "called to rock the cradle." He is interesting for a singular
and early mastery of the couplet, which the following extract will show:--

    "O Thou, who all things hast of nothing made,
    Whose hand the radiant firmament displayed,
    With such an undiscerned swiftness hurled
    About the steadfast centre of the world;
    Against whose rapid course the restless sun,
    And wandering flames in varied motions run.
    Which heat, light, life infuse; time, night, and day
    Distinguish; in our human bodies sway:
    That hung'st the solid earth in fleeting air
    Veined with clear springs which ambient seas repair.
    In clouds the mountains wrap their hoary heads;
    Luxurious valleys clothed with flowery meads;
    Her trees yield fruit and shade; with liberal breasts
    All creatures she, their common mother, feasts."

Henry Vaughan was born in 1622, published Poems in 1646 (for some of which he afterwards expressed
a not wholly necessary repentance), Olor Iscanus (from Isca Silurum) in 1651, and Silex Scintillans,
his best-known book, in 1650 and 1655. Then there was an hour or two for Montaigne, or Bacon, or
Shakespeare, or Tennyson, or some dear old biography.'

The only
productions of this time worth mentioning are the History of the Thirty
Years' Peace (1849) and the condensed version of Comte's Positive
Philosophy (1853), both of them meritorious and useful pieces of work,
and both of them undertaken, as nearly all Miss Martineau's work was,
not from merely literary motives, but because she thought that they
would be meritorious and useful, and because nothing more useful came
into her head or under her hand at the moment.

The condensation
of Comte is easy and rapid, and it is said by those who have looked very
closely into it to be hardly free from some too hasty renderings.
It must, however, on the whole, be pronounced a singularly intelligent
and able performance. The pace at which Comte was able to compose is
a standing marvel to all who have pondered the great and difficult
art of composition. It must be admitted that the author of the English
version of him was in this respect no unworthy match for her original.

Miss Martineau tells us that she despatched the last three volumes, which
number over 1800 pages, in some five months. She thought the rendering
of thirty pages of Comte a fair morning's work.

    

If we consider the abstract and difficult nature of the matter, this must be pronounced something
of a feat. We have not space to describe her method, but any reader who happens to be interested
in the mechanism of literary productions will find the passage in
vol. ii. p. 391.

The History of the Thirty Years' Peace is no less astonishing an
example of rapid industry.

From the first opening of the books to study for the history to the depositing of the MS. of the
first volume at press, was exactly six months. The second volume took six months to do, with an
interval of some weeks of holiday and other work!

We think all this worth mentioning, because it is an illustration
of what is a highly important maxim; namely, that it is a great mistake
to expend more time and labour on a piece of composition than is enough
to make it serve the purpose in hand.


"The Grasshopper" is almost worthy of the two better-known pieces, and there are others not
far below it. But on the whole any one who knows those two (and who does not?) may neglect
Lovelace with safety. Suckling, even putting his dramatic work aside, is not to be thus treated.
True, he is often careless in the bad sense as well as in the good, though the doggerel of
the "Sessions" and some other pieces is probably intentional. But in his own vein, that of
coxcombry that is not quite cynical, and is quite intelligent, he is marvellously happy. The
famous song in Aglaura, the Allegro to Lovelace's Penseroso, "Why so pale and wan, fond lover?"
is scarcely better than "'Tis now since I sat down before That foolish fort a heart," or "Out
upon it! I have loved Three whole days together." Nor in more serious veins is the author to
be slighted, as in "The Dance;" while as for the "Ballad on a Wedding," the best parts of this
are by common consent incomparable. Side by side by these are to be found, as in Lovelace,
pieces that will not even scan, and, as not in Lovelace (who is not seldom loose but never
nasty), pieces of a dull and disgusting obscenity. But we do not go to Suckling for these;
we go to him for his easy grace, his agreeable impudence, his scandalous mock-disloyalty (for
it is only mock-disloyalty after all) to the "Lord of Terrible Aspect," whom all his elder
contemporaries worshipped so piously. Suckling's inconstancy and Lovelace's constancy may or
may not be equally poetical,--there is some reason for thinking that the lover of Althea was
actually driven to something like despair by the loss of his mistress. But that matters to
us very little. The songs remain, and remain yet unsurpassed, as the most perfect celebrations,
in one case of chivalrous devotion, in the other of the coxcomb side of gallantry, that literature
contains or is likely ever to contain. The songwriting faculty of the English, which had broken
out some half century before, and had produced so many masterpieces, was near its death, or
at least near the trance from which Burns and Blake revived it more than a century later, which
even Dryden's superhuman faculty of verse could only galvanise. But at the last it threw off
by the mouths of men, who otherwise seem to have had very ordinary poetical powers, this little
group of triumphs in song, to which have to be added the raptures--equally strange and sweet,
equally unmatched of their kind, but nobler and more masculine--of the "Great Marquis," the
few and wonderful lines of Montrose. To quote "My dear and only love, I pray," or "Great, good,
and just, could I but rate," would be almost as much an insult to the reader as to quote the
above-mentioned little masterpieces of the two less heroic English cavaliers.

Quarles, More, and Joseph Beaumont form, as it were, a kind of appendix to the poetry of Herbert
and Vaughan--an appendix very much less distinguished by poetical power, but very interesting
as displaying the character of the time and the fashion (strange enough to us moderns) in which
almost every interest of that time found its natural way into verse. The enormous popularity
of Francis Quarles's Emblems and Enchiridion accounts to some extent for the very unjust ridicule
which has been lavished on him by men of letters of his own and later times. But the silly
antithesis of Pope, a writer who, great as he was, was almost as ignorant of literary history
as his model, Boileau, ought to prejudice no one, and it is strictly true that Quarles's enormous
volume hides, to some extent, his merits. Born in 1592 at Romford, of a gentle though not very
distinguished family, which enters into that curious literary genealogy of Swift, Dryden, and
Herrick, he was educated at Cambridge, became cup-bearer to the ill-fated and romantically
renowned "Goody Palsgrave," held the post which Middleton and Jonson had held, of chronologer
to the city of London, followed the King to Oxford to his loss, having previously had losses
in Ireland, and died early in 1644, leaving his memory to be defended in a rather affecting
document by his widow, Ursula. Quarles was a kind of journalist to whom the vehicle of verse
came more easily than the vehicle of prose, and the dangers of that state of things are well
known. A mere list of his work (the Enchiridion is in prose, and a good thing too) would far
exceed any space that can be given to him here. All Quarles's work is journey-work, but it
is only fair to note the frequent wealth of fancy, the occasional felicity of expression, which
illustrate this wilderness.

More and Beaumont were not, like Quarles, poetical miscellanists and periodical writers; but
they seem to have shared with him the delusion that poetry is an instrument of all work. Henry
More, a man well connected and who might have risen, but who preferred to pass the greater
part of a long and studious life as a fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, is best known
as a member of the theological school, indifferently called the Cambridge Platonists and the
Cambridge Latitudinarians. His chief work in verse is a great philosophical poem, entitled
the Song of the Soul, with such engaging sub-titles as Psychozoia, Psychathanasia, Antipsychopannychia,
and Antimonopsychia. I shall not, I hope, be suspected of being ignorant of Greek, or disinclined
to metaphysics, if I say that the Song of the Soul appears to me a venerable mistake. A philosophical
controversy carried on in this fashion--

    "But contradiction, can that have place
    In any soul? Plato affirms ideas;
    But Aristotle, with his pugnacious race,
    As idle figments stiffly them denies,"

seems to me to be a signal instance of the wrong thing in the wrong place. It is quite true
that More has, as Southey says, "lines and passages of sublime beauty." A man of his time,
actuated by its noble thought, trained as we know More to have been in the severest school
of Spenser, and thus habituated to the heavenly harmonies of that perfect poet, could hardly
fail to produce such. But his muse is a chaotic not a cosmic one.

Something the same may be said of Joseph Beaumont, a friend of Crashaw, and like him ejected
from Peterhouse, son-in-law of Bishop Wren, and, later, head of Jesus College. Beaumont, a
strong cavalier and an orthodox churchman, was a kind of adversary of More's, whose length
and quaintness he has exceeded, while he has almost rivalled his learning in Psyche or Love's
Mystery, a religious poem of huge dimensions, first published in 1648 and later in 1702. Beaumont,
as both fragments of this vast thing and his minor poems show, had fancy, taste, and almost
genius on opportunity; but the prevailing mistake of his school, the idea that poetry is a
fit vehicle for merely prosaic expression, is painfully apparent in him.

First, for various reasons, among the nondescripts of the Caroline school, deserves to be mentioned
William Habington, a Roman Catholic gentleman of good upper middle-class station, whose father
was himself a man of letters, and had some trouble in the Gunpowder Plot. He was born at Hindlip
Hall, near Worcester, in the year of the plot itself, courted and married Lucy Herbert, daughter
of his neighbour, Lord Powis, and published her charms and virtues in the collection called
Castara, first issued in 1634. Habington also wrote a tragic comedy, The Queen of Aragon, and
some other work, but died in middle life. It is upon Castara that his fame rests. To tell the
truth it is, though, as had been said, an estimable, yet a rather irritating work. That Habington
was a true lover every line of it shows; that he had a strong infusion of the abundant poetical
inspiration then abroad is shown by line after line, though hardly by poem after poem, among
its pieces. His series of poems on the death of his friend Talbot is full of beauty. His religion
is sincere, fervent, and often finely expressed; though he never rose to Herbert's pure devotion,
or to Crashaw's flaming poetry. One of the later Castara poems may be given:--

    "We saw and woo'd each other's eyes,
      My soul contracted then with thine,
    And both burnt in one sacrifice,
      By which our marriage grew divine.

    "Let wilder youths, whose soul is sense,
      Profane the temple of delight,
    And purchase endless penitence,
      With the stolen pleasure of one night.

    "Time's ever ours, while we despise
      The sensual idol of our clay,
    For though the sun do set and rise,
      We joy one everlasting day.

    "Whose light no jealous clouds obscure,
      While each of us shine innocent,
    The troubled stream is still impure;
      With virtue flies away content.

    "And though opinions often err,
      We'll court the modest smile of fame,
    For sin's black danger circles her,
      Who hath infection in her name.

    "Thus when to one dark silent room
      Death shall our loving coffins thrust:
    Fame will build columns on our tomb,
      And add a perfume to our dust."

But Castara is a real instance of what some foreign critics very unjustly charge on English
literature as a whole--a foolish and almost canting prudery. The poet dins the chastity of
his mistress into his readers' heads until the readers in self-defence are driven to say, "Sir,
did any one doubt it?" He protests the freedom of his own passion from any admixture of fleshly
influence, till half a suspicion of hypocrisy and more than half a feeling of contempt force
themselves on the hearer. A relentless critic might connect these unpleasant features with
the uncharitable and more than orthodox bigotry of his religious poems. Yet Habington, besides
contributing much agreeable verse to the literature of the period, is invaluable as showing
the counterside to Milton, the Catholic Puritanism which is no doubt inherent in the English
nature, and which, had it not been for the Reformation, would probably have transformed Catholicism
in a very strange fashion.

There is no Puritanism of any kind in a group--it would hardly be fair to call them a school--of
"Heroic" poets to whom very little attention has been paid in histories of literature hitherto,
but who lead up not merely to Davenant's Gondibert and Cowley's Davideis, but to Paradise Lost
itself. The "Heroic" poem was a kind generated partly by the precepts of the Italian criticism,
including Tasso, partly by the practice of Tasso himself, and endeavouring to combine something
of the unity of Epic with something and more of the variety of Romance. It may be represented
here by the work of Chalkhill, Chamberlayne, Marmion, and Kynaston. John Chalkhill, the author
of Thealma and Clearchus, was, with his work, introduced to the public in 1683 by Izaak Walton,
who styles him "an acquaintant and friend of Edmund Spenser." If so, he must have been one
of the first of English poets to adopt the very loose enjambed decasyllabic couplet in which
his work, like that of Marmion and still more Chamberlayne, is written. His poem is unfinished,
and the construction and working-up of the story are looser even than the metre; but it contains
a great deal of charming description and some very poetical phrase.

Much the same may be said of the Cupid and Psyche (1637) of the dramatist Shakerley Marmion
(v. inf.), which follows the original of Apuleius with alternate closeness and liberty, but
is always best when it is most original. The Leoline and Sydanis (1642) of Sir Francis Kynaston
is not in couplets but in rhyme royal--a metre of which the author was so fond that he even
translated the Troilus and Cressida of Chaucer into Latin, retaining the seven-line stanza
and its rhymes. Kynaston, who was a member of both universities and at one time proctor at
Cambridge, was a man interested in various kinds of learning, and even started an Academy or
Museum Minervæ of his own. In Leoline and Sydanis he sometimes comes near to the mock heroic,
but in his lyrics called Cynthiades he comes nearer still to the best Caroline cry. One or
two of his pieces have found their way into anthologies, but until the present writer reprinted
his works[60] he was almost unknown.

[60] In Minor Caroline Poets, vols. i. and ii. (Oxford, 1905-6). An important addition to the
religious verse of the time was made by Mr. Dobell with the Poems (London, 1903) of Thomas
Traherne, a follower of Herbert, with some strange anticipations of Blake.

The most important by far, however, of this group is William Chamberlayne, a physician of Shaftesbury,
who, before or during the Civil War, began and afterwards finished (publishing it in 1659)
the very long heroic romance of Pharonnida, a story of the most involved and confused character
but with episodes of great vividness and even sustained power: a piece of versification straining
the liberties of enjambement in line and want of connection in syntax to the utmost; but a
very mine of poetical expression and imagery. Jewels are to be picked up on every page by those
who will take the trouble to do so, and who are not offended by the extraordinary nonchalance
of the composition.

The Theophila of Edward Benlowes (1603?-1676) was printed in 1652 with elaborate and numerous
engravings by Hollar, which have made it rare, and usually imperfect when met with. Benlowes
was a Cambridge man (of St. John's College) by education, but lived latterly and died at Oxford,
having been reduced from wealth to poverty by the liberality which made his friends anagrammatise
his name into "Benevolus." His work was abused as an awful example of the extravagant style
by Butler (Character of a Small Poet), and by Warburton in the next century; but it was never
reprinted till the date of the collection just noted. It is a really curious book, displaying
the extraordinary diffusion of poetical spirit still existing, but in a hectic and decadent
condition. Benlowes--a Cleveland with more poetry and less cleverness, or a very much weaker
Crashaw--uses a monorhymed triplet made up of a heroic, an octosyllable, and an Alexandrine
which is as wilfully odd as the rest of him.

Randolph, the youngest and not the least gifted of the tribe of Ben, died before he was thirty,
after writing some noteworthy plays, and a certain number of minor poems, which, as it has
been well observed, rather show that he might have done anything, than that he did actually
do something. Corbet was Bishop first of Oxford and then of Norwich, and died in 1635. Corbet's
work is of that peculiar class which is usually, though not always, due to "University Wits,"
and which only appeals to people with a considerable appreciation of humour, and a large stock
of general information. It is always occasional in character, and rarely succeeds so well as
when the treatment is one of distinct persiflage. Thus the elegy on Donne is infinitely inferior
to Carew's, and the mortuary epitaph on Arabella Stuart is, for such a subject and from the
pen of a man of great talent, extraordinarily feeble. The burlesque epistle to Lord Mordaunt
on his journey to the North is great fun, and the "Journey into France," though, to borrow
one of its own jokes, rather "strong," is as good. The "Exhortation to Mr. John Hammond," a
ferocious satire on the Puritans, distinguishes itself from almost all precedent work of the
kind by the force and directness of its attack, which almost anticipates Dryden. And Corbet
had both pathetic and imaginative touches on occasion, as here:--

    "What I shall leave thee none can tell,
    But all shall say I wish thee well,
    I wish thee, Vin, before all wealth,
    Both bodily and ghostly health;
    Nor too much wealth, nor wit, come to thee,
    So much of either may undo thee.
    I wish thee learning, not for show,
    Enough for to instruct and know;
    Not such as gentlemen require
    To prate at table, or at fire.
    I wish thee all thy mother's graces,
    Thy father's fortunes, and his places.
    I wish thee friends, and one at court,
    Not to build on, but support
    To keep thee, not in doing many
    Oppressions, but from suffering any.
    I wish thee peace in all thy ways,
    Nor lazy nor contentious days;
    And when thy soul and body part
    As innocent as now those art."

Cartwright, a short-lived man but a hard student, shows best in his dramas. In his occasional
poems, strongly influenced by Donne, he is best at panegyric, worst at burlesque and epigram.
In "On a Gentlewoman's Silk Hood" and some other pieces he may challenge comparison with the
most futile of the metaphysicals; but no one who has read his noble elegy on Sir Bevil Grenvil,
unequal as it is, will think lightly of Cartwright. Sir Edward Sherburne was chiefly a translator
in the fashionable style. His original poems were those of a very inferior Carew (he even copies
the name Celia), but they are often pretty. Alexander Brome, of whom very little is known,
and who must not be confounded with the dramatist, was a lawyer and a cavalier song-writer,
who too frequently wrote mere doggerel; but on the other hand, he sometimes did not, and when
he escaped the evil influence, as in the stanzas "Come, come, let us drink," "The Trooper,"
and not a few others, he has the right anacreontic vein.

As for Charles Cotton, his "Virgil Travesty" is deader than Scarron's, and deserves to be so.
The famous lines which Lamb has made known to every one in the essay on "New Year's Day" are
the best thing he did. But there are many excellent things scattered about his work, despite
a strong taint of the mere coarseness and nastiness which have been spoken of. And though he
was also much tainted with the hopeless indifference to prosody which distinguished all these
belated cavaliers, it is noteworthy that he was one of the few Englishmen for centuries to
adopt the strict French forms and write rondeaux and the like. On the whole his poetical power
has been a little undervalued, while he was also dexterous in prose.

Thomas Stanley has been classed above as a translator because he would probably have liked
to have his scholarship thus brought into prominence. It was, both in ancient and modern tongues,
very considerable. His History of Philosophy was a classic for a very long time; and his edition
of Æschylus had the honour of revision within the nineteenth century by Porson and by Butler.
It is not certain that Bentley did not borrow from him; and his versions of Anacreon, of various
other Greek lyrists, of the later Latins, and of modern writers in Spanish and Italian are
most remarkable. But he was also an original poet in the best Caroline style of lyric; and
his combination of family (for he was of the great Stanley stock), learning, and genius gave
him a high position with men of letters of his day. Sidney Godolphin, who died very young fighting
for the King in Hopton's army, had no time to do much; but he has been magnificently celebrated
by no less authorities than Clarendon and Hobbes, and fragments of his work, which has only
recently been collected, have long been known. None of it, except a commendatory poem or two,
was printed in his own time, and very little later; while the MSS. are not in very accomplished
form, and show few or no signs of revision by the author. Some, however, of Godolphin's lyrics
are of great beauty, and a couplet translation of the Fourth Æneid has as much firmness as
Sandys or Waller. Another precocious poet whose life also was cut short, though less heroically,
and on the other side of politics, was John Hall, a Cambridge man, who at barely twenty (1645-6)
issued a volume of poems and another, Horæ Vacivæ, of prose essays, translated Longinus, did
hack-work on the Cromwellian side, and died, it is said, of loose and lazy living. Hall's poems
are of mixed kinds--sacred and profane, serious and comic--and the best of them, such as "The
Call" and "The Lure," have a slender but most attractive vein of fantastic charm. Patrick Carey,
again, a Royalist and brother of the famous Lord Falkland, brought up as a Roman Catholic but
afterwards a convert to the Church of England, left manuscript pieces, human and divine, which
were printed by Sir Walter Scott in 1819, and are extremely pleasant; while Bishop King, though
not often at the height of his well-known "Tell me no more how fair she is," never falls below
a level much above the average. The satirist John Cleveland, whose poems were extremely popular
and exist in numerous editions (much blended with other men's work and hard to disentangle),
was made a sort of "metaphysical helot" by a reference in Dryden's Essay of Dramatic Poesy
and quotations in Johnson's Life of Cowley. He partly deserves this, though he has real originality
of thought and phrase; but much of his work is political or occasional, and he does not often
rise to the quintessential exquisiteness of some of those who have been mentioned. A few examples
of this class may be given:--

                                    "Through a low
    Dark vale, where shade-affecting walks did grow
    Eternal strangers to the sun, did lie
    The narrow path frequented only by
    The forest tyrants when they bore their prey
    From open dangers of discovering day.
    Passed through this desert valley, they were now
    Climbing an easy hill, whose every bough
    Maintained a feathered chorister to sing
    Soft panegyrics, and the rude winds bring
    Into a murmuring slumber; whilst the calm
    Morn on each leaf did hang the liquid balm
    With an intent, before the next sun's birth
    To drop it in those wounds which the cleft earth
    Received from's last day's beams. The hill's ascent
    Wound up by action, in a large extent
    Of leafy plains, shows them the canopy
    Beneath whose shadow their large way did lie."

                    CHAMBERLAYNE, Pharonnida, iv. 1. 199-216.

It will be observed that of these eighteen lines all but four are overrun; and the resemblance
to the couplet of Keats's Endymion should not be missed.

    "April is past, then do not shed,
      And do not waste in vain,
    Upon thy mother's earthy bed
      Thy tears of silver rain.

    "Thou canst not hope that the cold earth
      By wat'ring will bring forth
    A flower like thee, or will give birth
      To one of the like worth.

    "'Tis true the rain fall'n from the sky
      Or from the clouded air,
    Doth make the earth to fructify,
      Ann makes the heaven more fair.

    "With thy dear face it is not so,
      Which, if once overcast,
    If thou rain down thy showers of woe,
      They, like the sirens, blast.

    "Therefore, when sorrow shall becloud
      Thy fair serenest day,
    Weep not: thy sighs shall be allow'd
      To chase the storm away.

    "Consider that the teeming vine,
      If cut by chance [it] weep,
    Doth bear no grapes to make the wine,
      But feels eternal sleep."

                    KYNASTON.

      "Be conquer'd by such charms; there shall
          Not always such enticements fall.
    What know we whether that rich spring of light
          Will staunch his streams
          Of golden beams
      Ere the approach of night?

      "How know we whether't shall not be
          The last to either thee or me?
    He can at will his ancient brightness gain,
          But thou and I
          When we shall die
      Shall still in dust remain."

                    JOHN HALL.

This group of poets seems to demand a little general criticism. They stand more by themselves
than almost any other group in English literary history, marked off in most cases with equal
sharpness from predecessors, followers, and contemporaries. The best of them, Herrick and Carew,
with Crashaw as a great thirdsman, called themselves "sons" of Ben Jonson, and so in a way
they were; but they were even more sons of Donne. That great writer's burning passion, his
strange and labyrinthine conceits, the union in him of spiritual and sensual fire, influenced
the idiosyncrasies of each as hardly any other writer's influence has done in other times;
while his technical shortcomings had unquestionably a fatal effect on the weaker members of
the school. But there is also noticeable in them a separate and hardly definable influence
which circumscribes their class even more distinctly. They were, as I take it, the last set
of poets anywhere in Europe to exhibit, in that most fertile department of poetry which seeks
its inspiration in the love of man for woman, the frank expression of physical affection united
with the spirit of chivalry, tempered by the consciousness of the fading of all natural delights,
and foreshadowed by that intellectual introspection which has since developed itself in such
great measure--some think out of all measure--in poetry. In the best of them there is no cynicism
at all. Herrick and Carew are only sorry that the amatory fashion of this world passeth; they
do not in the least undervalue it while it lasts, or sneer at it when it is gone. There is,
at least to my thinking, little coarseness in them (I must perpetually except Herrick's epigrams),
though there is, according to modern standards, a great deal of very plain speaking. They have
as much frank enjoyment of physical pleasures as any classic or any mediævalist; but they have
what no classic except Catullus and perhaps Sappho had,--the fine rapture, the passing but
transforming madness which brings merely physical passion sub specie æternitatis; and they
have in addition a faint preliminary touch of that analytic and self-questioning spirit which
refines even further upon the chivalric rapture and the classical-renaissance mysticism of
the shadow of death, but which since their time has eaten up the simpler and franker moods
of passion itself. With them, as a necessary consequence, the physical is (to anticipate a
famous word of which more presently) always blended with the metaphysical. It is curious that,
as one result of the change of manner, this should have even been made a reproach to them--that
the ecstasy of their ecstasies should apparently have become not an excuse but an additional
crime. Yet if any grave and precise person will read Carew's Rapture, the most audacious, and
of course wilfully audacious expression of the style, and then turn to the archangel's colloquy
with Adam in Paradise Lost, I should like to ask him on which side, according to his honour
and conscience, the coarseness lies. I have myself no hesitation in saying that it lies with
the husband of Mary Powell and the author of Tetrachordon, not with the lover of Celia and
the author of the lines to "A. L."

There are other matters to be considered in the determination of the critical fortunes of the
Caroline school. Those fortunes have been rather odd. Confounded at first in the general oblivion
which the Restoration threw on all works of "the last age," and which deepened as the school
of Dryden passed into the school of Pope, the writers of the Donne-Cowley tradition were first
exhumed for the purposes of post-mortem examination by and in the remarkable "Life" of Johnson,
devoted to the last member of the class. It is at this time of day alike useless to defend
the Metaphysical Poets against much that Johnson said, and to defend Johnson against the charge
of confusion, inadequacy, and haste in his generalisations. The term metaphysical, originating
with Dryden, and used by Johnson with a slight difference, may be easily miscomprehended by
any one who chooses to forget its legitimate application both etymologically and by usage to
that which comes, as it were, behind or after nature. Still Johnson undoubtedly confounded
in one common condemnation writers who have very little in common, and (which was worse) criticised
a peculiarity of expression as if it had been a deliberate substitution of alloy for gold.
The best phrases of the metaphysical poets more than justify themselves to any one who looks
at poetry with a more catholic appreciation than Johnson's training and associations enabled
him to apply; and even the worst are but mistaken attempts to follow out a very sound principle,
that of "making the common as though it were not common." Towards the end of the eighteenth
century some of these poets, especially Herrick, were revived with taste and success by Headley
and other men of letters. But it so happened that the three great critics of the later Romantic
revival, Hazlitt, Lamb, and Coleridge, were all strongly attracted to the bolder and more irregular
graces of the great dramatic poets, to the not less quaint but less "mignardised" quaintnesses
of prose writers like Burton, Browne, and Taylor, or to the massive splendours of the Elizabethan
poets proper. The poetry of the Caroline age was, therefore, a little slurred, and this mishap
of falling between two schools has constantly recurred to it. Some critics even who have done
its separate authors justice, have subsequently indulged in palinodes, have talked about decadence
and Alexandrianism and what not. The heart and soul of all men being one, this bitterness of His and
Mine ceases. His is mine. I am my brother, and my brother is me. If I feel overshadowed and outdone
by great neighbors, I can yet love; I can still receive; and he that loveth maketh his own the
grandeur he loves. Thereby I make the discovery that my brother is my guardian, acting for me with the friendliest
designs, and the estate I so admired and envied is my own. It is the nature of the soul to appropriate
all things. Jesus[142] and Shakespeare are fragments of the soul, and by love I conquer and incorporate
them in my own conscious domain. His[143] virtue,--is not that mine?

His wit,--if it cannot be made mine, it is not wit.

Such, also, is the natural history of calamity. The changes which break
up at short intervals the prosperity of men are advertisements of a nature
whose law is growth. Every soul is by this intrinsic necessity quitting
its whole system of things, its friends, and home, and laws, and faith, as the
shellfish crawls out of its beautiful but stony case, because it
no longer admits of its growth, and slowly forms a new house.

In proportion to the vigor of the individual, these revolutions are frequent, until in some happier
mind they are incessant, and all worldly relations hang very loosely about him, becoming, as it
were, a transparent fluid membrane through which the living form is seen, and not, as in most men, an
indurated heterogeneous fabric of many dates, and of no settled character,
in which the man is imprisoned.

                          
    Then there can be enlargement, and the man of to-day scarcely
    recognizes the man of yesterday. And such
    should be the outward biography of man in
    time, a putting off of dead circumstances
    day by day, as he renews his raiment day by
    day.

But to us, in our lapsed estate, resting, not advancing, resisting, not coöperating
with the divine expansion, this growth comes by shocks.

We cannot part with our friend.

We cannot let our angels go. We do not see that they only go out, that archangels may come in. We
are idolaters of the old.

We do not believe in the riches of the soul, in its proper eternity
and omnipresence.

We do not believe there is any force in to-day to rival or recreate that beautiful yesterday. We linger
in the ruins of the old tent, where once we had bread and shelter and organs, nor believe that the
spirit can feed, cover, and nerve us again. We cannot again find aught so dear, so sweet, so graceful.
But we sit and weep in vain. The voice of the Almighty saith, "Up and onward forevermore!" We cannot
stay amid the ruins.

Neither will we rely on the new; and so we walk ever with reverted eyes, like
those monsters who look backwards.

And yet the compensations of calamity are made apparent to the understanding
also, after long intervals of time.

A fever, a mutilation, a cruel disappointment, a loss of wealth, a loss
of friends, seems at the moment unpaid loss, and unpayable. But the sure
years reveal the deep remedial force that underlies all facts. The
death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover, which seemed nothing but
privation, somewhat later assumes the aspect of a guide or genius; for
it commonly operates revolutions in our way of life, terminates an
epoch of infancy or of youth which was waiting to be closed, breaks
up a wonted occupation, or a household, or style of living, and allows
the formation of new ones more friendly to the growth of character.

It permits or constrains the formation of new acquaintances, and the reception of new influences
that prove of the first importance to the next years; and the man or woman who would have remained
a sunny garden flower, with no room for its roots and too much sunshine
for its head, by the falling of the walls and the neglect of the gardener,
is made the banyan[144] of the forest, yielding shade and fruit to
wide neighborhoods of men.

SELF-RELIANCE

"Ne te quæsiveris extra."[145]

"Man is his own star; and the soul that can Render an honest and a perfect man, Commands all light, all influence,
all fate; Nothing to him falls early or too late.

Our acts our angels are, or good or ill, Our fatal shadows that walk by us still."[146]

* * * * *

Cast the bantling on the rocks, Suckle him with the she-wolf's teat; Wintered with the hawk and fox,
Power and speed be hands and feet.[147]

I read the other day some verses written by an eminent painter which
were original and not conventional.

The soul always hears an admonition in such lines, let the subject be what it may. The sentiment they
instill is of more value than any thought they may contain. To believe your own thought, to believe
that what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men,--that is genius.[148] Speak
your latent conviction, and it shall be the universal sense;[149] for
the inmost in due time becomes the outmost,--and our first thought
is rendered back to us by the trumpets of the Last Judgment.

Familiar as the voice of the mind is to each, the highest merit we ascribe to Moses, Plato,[150]
and Milton[151] is, that they set at naught books and traditions,
and spoke not what men, but what they thought.

A man should learn to detect and watch that gleam of light which flashes
across his mind from within, more than the luster of the firmament of bards and sages.
Yet he dismisses without notice his thought, because it is his.

In every work of genius we recognize our own rejected thoughts:[152] they
come back to us with a certain alienated majesty. Great works of art
have no more affecting lesson for us than this.

They teach us to abide by our spontaneous impression with good-humored inflexibility
then most when[153] the whole cry of voices is on the other side. Else,
to-morrow a stranger will say with masterly good sense precisely what
we have thought and felt all the time, and we shall be forced to take
with shame our own opinion from another.

There is a time in every man's education when he arrives at the conviction
that envy is ignorance; that imitation is suicide;[154] that he must
take himself for better, for worse, as his portion; that though the
wide universe is full of good, no kernel of nourishing corn can come
to him but through his toil bestowed on that plot of ground which
is given to him to till.

The power which resides in him is new in nature, and none but he knows what that is which he can do, nor
does he know until he has tried.

Not for nothing one face, one character, one fact, makes much impression
on him, and another none.

This sculpture in the memory is not without preëstablished harmony.

The eye was placed where one ray should fall, that it might testify
of that particular ray. We but half express ourselves,[155] and are
ashamed of that divine idea which each of us represents.

It may be safely trusted as proportionate and of good issues, so
it be faithfully imparted, but God will not have his work made manifest
by cowards.

A man is relieved and gay when he has put his heart into his work
and done his best; but what he has said or done otherwise shall give
him no peace.

It is a deliverance which does not deliver.

In the attempt his genius deserts him; no muse befriends; no invention,
no hope.

Trust thyself:[156] every heart vibrates to that iron string. Accept the place the divine providence has
found for you, the society of your contemporaries, the connection of events. Great men have always done
so, and confided themselves childlike to the genius of their age,
betraying their perception that the absolutely trustworthy was seated
at their heart, working through their hands, predominating in all
their being.

And we are now men, and must accept in the highest mind the same transcendent destiny; and not minors
and invalids in a protected corner, not cowards fleeing before a revolution, but guides, redeemers,
and benefactors, obeying the Almighty effort, and advancing on Chaos[157]
and the Dark.

What pretty oracles nature yields us on this text, in the face and behavior of children, babes, and even brutes!
That divided and rebel mind, that distrust of a sentiment because our arithmetic has computed the
strength and means opposed to our purpose, these[158] have not.

Their mind being whole, their eye is as yet unconquered, and when we look in their faces we are disconcerted.
Infancy conforms to nobody: all conform to it, so that one babe
commonly makes four or five[159] out of the adults who prattle and
play to it. So God has armed youth and puberty and manhood no less
with its own piquancy and charm, and made it enviable and gracious
and its claims not to be put by, if it will stand by itself.

Do not think the youth has no force, because he cannot speak to you and me. Hark! in the next room
his voice is sufficiently clear and emphatic. It seems he knows how to speak to his contemporaries.
Bashful or bold, then, he will know how to make us seniors very unnecessary.

The

nonchalance[160] of boys who are sure of a dinner, and would disdain as much as a lord to do or say
aught to conciliate one, is the healthy attitude of human nature. A boy is in the parlor what the pit is in
the playhouse;[161] independent, irresponsible, looking out from
his corner on such people and facts as pass by, he tries and sentences
them on their merits, in the swift, summary way of boys, as good,
bad, interesting, silly, eloquent, troublesome.

He cumbers himself never about consequences about interests; he gives
an independent, genuine verdict. You must court him: he does not
court you.

But the man is, as it were, clapped into jail by his consciousness. As soon as he has once acted or
spoken with éclat[162] he is a committed person, watched by the sympathy or the hatred of hundreds, whose
affections must now enter into his account. There is no Lethe[163]
for this.

Ah, that he could pass again into his neutrality! Who[164] can thus avoid all pledges, and having
observed, observe again from the same unaffected, unbiased, unbribable, unaffrighted innocence,
must always be formidable. He would utter opinions on all passing affairs, which being seen
to be not private, but necessary, would sink like darts into the ear of men, and put them
in fear.

These are the voices which we hear in solitude, but they grow faint
and inaudible as we enter into the world.

Society everywhere is in conspiracy against the manhood of every one of its
members. Society is a joint-stock company, in which the members agree,
for the better securing of his bread to each shareholder, to surrender the liberty
and culture of the eater. The virtue in most request is conformity.

Self-reliance
is its aversion. It loves not realities and creators, but names and customs.

Whoso
would be a man must be a nonconformist.[165] He who would gather immortal
palms must not be hindered by the name of goodness, but must explore
if it be goodness.[166] Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity
of your own mind.

    Absolve you to yourself, and you shall
                  have the suffrage[167] of the world.
                  
I remember an answer which when quite young I was prompted to make
to a valued adviser, who was wont to importune me with the dear old
doctrines of the church.

    On my saying, What have
                  I to do with the sacredness of traditions, if
                  I live wholly from within? my friend suggested:
                  "But these impulses may be from below,
                  not from above."
                  
                  I replied: "They do not seem to me to be
                  such; but if I am the Devil's child, I will live then
                  from the Devil." No law can be
                  
                  sacred to me but that of my nature. Good and bad are
                  but names very readily transferable to that
                  or this;[168] the only right is what is after my
                  constitution, the only wrong what is against it.
                  A man is to carry himself in the presence of all
                  opposition, as if everything were titular and
                  ephemeral but he. I am ashamed to think how
                  easily we capitulate to badges and names,
                  to large societies and dead institutions.
                  
                  Every decent and well-spoken individual affects
                  and sways me more than is right. I ought
                  to go upright and vital, and speak the rude truth
                  in all ways. If malice and vanity wear the coat
                  of philanthropy, shall that pass? If an angry
                  bigot assumes this bountiful cause of Abolition, and comes
                  to me with his last news from Barbadoes,[169]
                  why should I not say to him: "Go love thy infant;
                  love thy wood-chopper: be good-natured and
                  modest: have that grace; and never varnish your
                  hard, uncharitable ambition with this incredible tenderness for black
folk a thousand miles off.

    
                  
                  Thy love afar is spite at home." Rough and graceless
                  would be such greeting, but truth is handsomer than
                  the affectation of love. Your goodness must have
                  some edge to it,--else it is none. The
                  doctrine of hatred must be preached as the counteraction
                  of the doctrine of love when that pules and
                  whines. I shun father and mother and wife and
                  brother, when my genius calls me.
                  
                  I would write on the lintels of the door-post,
                  Whim.[170] I hope it is somewhat better
                  
                  than whim at last, but we cannot spend the
                  day in explanation. Expect me not to show cause why
                  I seek or why I exclude company.
                  
Then, again, do not tell me, as a good man did to-day, of my obligation
to put all poor men in good situations.

    

    
                  Are they my poor? I tell thee, thou foolish philanthropist,
                  that I grudge the dollar, the dime, the cent, I give to
                        such men
                  as do not belong to me and to whom I do not belong. There
                  is a class of persons to whom by all spiritual affinity I am bought
and sold; for them I will go to prison, if need be; but your miscellaneous
popular charities; the education at college of fools; the building
of meeting-houses to the vain end to which many now stand; alms to
sots; and the thousand-fold Relief Societies;--though I confess with
shame I sometimes succumb and give the dollar, it is a wicked dollar
which by and by I shall have the manhood to withhold.

                  
                  
                  Virtues are, in the popular estimate, rather the exception
                  than the rule. There is the man and his virtues. Men do what is called
                  a good action, as some piece of courage or charity,
                  much as they would pay a fine in expiation of daily
                  non-appearance on parade. Their works are done
                  as an apology or extenuation of their living
                  in the world,--as invalids and the insane pay a high board. Their
                  virtues are penances. I do not wish to expiate,
                  but to live. My life is for itself and not
                  for a spectacle. I much prefer that it should be of
                  a lower strain, so it be genuine and equal,
                  than that
                  
                  it should be glittering and unsteady. I wish it to be
                  sound and sweet, and not to need diet and
                  bleeding.[171] I ask primary evidence that you
                  are a man, and refuse this appeal from the man
                  to his actions. I know that for myself it makes no difference whether I do or forbear those
actions which are reckoned excellent.

I cannot consent to pay for a privilege where I have intrinsic
right. Few and mean as my gifts may be, I actually am, and do not
need for my own assurance or the assurance of my fellows any secondary
testimony.

    
                  
                  What I must do is all that concerns me, not what
                  the people think. This rule, equally arduous in actual and in intellectual
life, may serve for the whole distinction between greatness and meanness.
It is the harder, because you will always find those who think they
know what is your duty better than you know it.

    

It is easy in the world to live after the world's opinion; it is easy
in solitude to live after our own; but the great man is he who in the
midst of the crowd keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of
solitude.[172]

The objection to conforming to usages that have become
dead to you is, that it scatters your force.

                              
It loses your time and blurs the impression of your character. If you
maintain a dead church, contribute to a dead Bible-society, vote with a
great party either for the government or against it, spread your
table like base housekeepers,--under all these screens I have difficulty
to detect the precise[173] man you are.

And, of course, so much force is withdrawn from your proper life. But do your work, and I shall know
you.[174] Do your work, and you shall reinforce yourself. A man must consider
what a blindman's-buff is this game of conformity. If I know your
sect, I anticipate your argument.

I hear a preacher announce for his text and topic the expediency of one of the institutions of
his church. Do I not know beforehand that not possibly can he say a new and spontaneous word? Do I not know
that, with[175] all this ostentation of examining the grounds of the institution, he will do no
such thing? Do I not know that he is pledged to himself not to look but at one side,--the permitted
side, not as a man, but as a parish minister? He is a retained attorney, and these airs of the bench[176] are
the emptiest affectation.

Well, most men have bound their eyes with one or another handkerchief,[177]
and attached themselves to some one of these communities of opinion.[178]
This conformity makes them not false in a few particulars, authors
of a few lies, but false in all particulars.

Their every truth is not quite true. Their two is not the real two, their four not the real four;
so that every word they say chagrins us, and we know not where to begin to set them right. Meantime
nature is not slow to equip us in the prison-uniform of the party
to which we adhere. We come to wear one cut of face and figure, and
acquire by degrees the gentlest asinine expression.

There is a mortifying experience in particular which does not fail
to wreak itself also in the general history; I mean "the foolish face
of praise," the forced smile which we put on in company where we do
not feel at ease in answer to conversation which does not interest us.

The muscles, not spontaneously moved, but moved by a low usurping willfulness,
grow tight about the outline of the face with the most disagreeable
sensation.

For nonconformity the world whips you with its displeasure.[179] And
therefore a man must know how to estimate a sour face.

The bystanders
look askance on him in the public street or in the friend's parlor. If this aversation had its origin in
contempt and resistance like his own, he might well go home with a sad countenance; but the sour faces
of the multitude, like their sweet faces, have no deep cause, but
are put on and off as the wind blows and a newspaper directs.[180]
Yet is the discontent of the multitude more formidable than that of
the senate and the college.

It is easy enough for a firm man who knows the world to brook the
rage of the cultivated classes. Their rage is decorous and prudent,
for they are timid as being very vulnerable themselves.

But when to their feminine rage the indignation of the people is added, when the ignorant and the poor are aroused,
when the unintelligent brute force that lies at the bottom of society is made to growl and mow, it
needs the habit of magnanimity and religion to treat it godlike as a trifle of no concernment.

The other terror[181] that scares us from self-trust is our consistency;[182] a reverence for our past act or
word, because the eyes of others have no other data for computing
our orbit[183] than our past acts, and we are loth to disappoint them.

But why should you keep your head over your shoulder? Why drag about this corpse of your memory, lest
you contradict somewhat[184] you have stated in this or that public place? Suppose you should
contradict yourself; what then? It seems to be a rule of wisdom never to rely
on your memory alone, scarcely even in acts of pure memory, but to bring
the past for judgment into the thousand-eyed present, and live ever
in a new day.

In your metaphysics you have denied personality to the Deity; yet when the devout
motions of the soul come, yield to them heart and life, though they should
clothe God with shape and color. Leave your theory, as Joseph his
coat in the hand of the harlot, and flee.[185]

A foolish consistency
is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored by little statesmen and philosophers
and divines.

With consistency a great soul has simply nothing to do.

He may as well concern himself with the shadow on the wall. Speak what you think
now in hard words, and to-morrow speak what to-morrow thinks in hard
words again, though it contradict everything you said to-day.--"Ah,
so you shall be sure to be misunderstood."--Is it so bad, then, to
be misunderstood?

Pythagoras[186]
was misunderstood, and Socrates,[187] and Jesus, and Luther,[188] and
Copernicus,[189] and Galileo,[190] and Newton,[191] and every pure
and wise spirit that ever took flesh. To be great is to be misunderstood.

I
suppose no man can violate his nature. All the sallies of his will are rounded
in by the law of his being, as the inequalities of Andes[192] and
Himmaleh[193] are insignificant in the curve of the sphere. Nor does it
matter how you gauge and try him. A character is like an acrostic or Alexandrian
stanza;[194]--read it forward, backward, or across, it still spells
the same thing.

In this pleasing, contrite wood-life which God allows me, let me record
day by day my honest thought without prospect or retrospect, and,
I cannot doubt, it will be found symmetrical, though I mean it not,
and see it not.

My book should smell of pines and resound with the hum of insects. The swallow
over my window should interweave that thread or straw he carries in his bill
into my web also. We pass for what we are. Character teaches above our
wills. Men imagine that they communicate their virtue or vice only by overt
actions, and do not see that virtue or vice emit a breath every moment.

There will be an agreement in whatever variety of actions, so they
be each honest and natural in their hour.

For
of one will, the actions will be harmonious, however unlike they seem.
These varieties are lost sight of at a little distance, at a little height
of thought. One tendency unites them all. The voyage of the best ship is a zigzag
line of a hundred tacks.[195] See the line from a sufficient distance, and
it straightens itself to the average tendency. Your genuine action
will explain itself, and will explain your other genuine actions.

Your conformity explains nothing. Act singly, and what you
have already done singly will justify you now. Greatness appeals to the future.
If I can be firm enough to-day to do right, and scorn eyes,[196] I must have
done so much right before as to defend me now.

Be it how it will, do right now. Always scorn appearances, and you always
may. The force of character is cumulative. All the foregone days of virtue
work their health into this. What makes the majesty of the heroes of the
senate and the field, which so fills the imagination? The consciousness
of a train of great days and victories behind. They shed an united light
on the advancing
actor. He is attended as by a visible escort of angels. That is it
which throws thunder into Chatham's[197] voice, and dignity into Washington's
port, and America into Adams's[198] eye. Honor is venerable to us
because it is no ephemeris. It is always ancient virtue. We worship
it to-day because it is not of to-day. We love it and pay it homage,
because it is not a trap for our love and homage, but is self-dependent,
self-derived, and therefore of an old immaculate pedigree, even if shown
in a young person.

I hope in these days we have heard the last of conformity and consistency.
Let the words be gazetted and ridiculous henceforward. Instead of
the gong for dinner, let us hear a whistle from the Spartan[199] fife.
Let us never bow and apologize more. A great man is coming to eat at
my house. I do not wish to please him; I wish that he should wish to
please me. I will stand here for humanity, and though I would make
it kind, I would make it true. Let us affront and reprimand the smooth mediocrity
and squalid contentment of the times, and hurl in the face of custom,
and trade, and office, the fact which is the upshot of all history,
that there is a great responsible Thinker and Actor working wherever
a man works; that a true man belongs to no other time or place, but
is the center of things.
 He could deal, and deal well, with a large range of subjects; and if he never ascends
to the height of a De Flores or a Bellafront, he never descends to the depths in which both
Middleton and Dekker too often complacently wallow. Unless we are to count by mere flashes,
he must, I think, rank after Shakespere, Fletcher, and Jonson among his fellows; and this I
say, honestly avowing that I have nothing like the enthusiasm for him that I have for Webster,
or for Dekker, or for Middleton. We may no doubt allow too much for bulk of work, for sustained
excellence at a certain level, and for general competence as against momentary excellence.
But we may also allow far too little; and this has perhaps been the general tendency of later
criticism in regard to Massinger. It is unfortunate that he never succeeded in making as perfect
a single expression of his tragic ability as he did of his comic, for the former was, I incline
to think, the higher of the two. But many of his plays are lost, and many of those which remain
come near to such excellence. It is by no means impossible that Massinger may have lost incomparably
by the misdeeds of the constantly execrated, but never to be execrated enough, minion of that
careless herald.

As in the case of Clarendon, almost absolutely contradictory opinions have been delivered,
by critics of great authority, about John Ford. In one of the most famous outbursts of his
generous and enthusiastic estimate of the Elizabethan period, Lamb has pronounced Ford to be
of the first order of poets. Mr Swinburne, while bringing not a few limitations to this tremendous
eulogy, has on the whole supported it in one of the most brilliant of his prose essays; and
critics as a rule have bowed to Lamb's verdict. On the other hand, Hazlitt (who is "gey ill
to differ with" when there are, as here, no extra-literary considerations to reckon) has traversed
that verdict in one of the most damaging utterances of commonsense, yet not commonplace, criticism
anywhere to be found, asking bluntly and pointedly whether the exceptionableness of the subject
is not what constitutes the merit of Ford's greatest play, pronouncing the famous last scene
of The Broken Heart extravagant, and fixing on "a certain perversity of spirit" in Ford generally.
It is pretty clear that Hartley Coleridge (who might be paralleled in our own day as a critic,
who seldom went wrong except through ignorance, though he had a sublime indifference as to
the ignorance that sometimes led him wrong) was of no different opinion. It is not easy to
settle such a quarrel. But I had the good fortune to read Ford before I had read anything except
Hartley Coleridge's rather enigmatic verdict about him, and in the many years that have passed
since I have read him often again. The resulting opinion may not be exceptionally valuable,
but it has at least stood the test of frequent re-reading of the original, and of reading of
the main authorities among the commentators.

John Ford, like Fletcher and Beaumont, but unlike almost all others of his class, was a person
not compelled by need to write tragedies,--comedies of any comic merit he could never have
written, were they his neck verse at Hairibee. His father was a man of good family and position
at Ilsington in Devon. His mother was of the well-known west-country house of the Pophams.
He was born(?) two years before the Armada, and three years after Massinger. He has no university
record, but was a member of the Middle Temple, and takes at least some pains to assure us that
he never wrote for money. Nevertheless, for the best part of thirty years he was a playwright,
and he is frequently found collaborating with Dekker, the neediest if nearly the most gifted
gutter-playwright of the time. Once he worked with Webster in a play (The Murder of the Son
upon the Mother) which must have given the fullest possible opportunity to the appetite of
both for horrors. Once he, Rowley, and Dekker combined to produce the strange masterpiece (for
a masterpiece it is in its own undisciplined way) of the Witch of Edmonton, where the obvious
signs of a play hastily cobbled up to meet a popular demand do not obscure the talents of the
cobblers. It must be confessed that there is much less of Ford than of Rowley and Dekker in
the piece, except perhaps its comparative regularity and the quite unreasonable and unintelligible
bloodiness of the murder of Susan. In The Sun's Darling, due to Ford and Dekker, the numerous
and charming lyrics are pretty certainly Dekker's; though we could pronounce on this point
with more confidence if we had the two lost plays, The Fairy Knight and The Bristowe Merchant,
in which the same collaborators are known to have been engaged. The Fancies, Chaste and Noble,
and The Lady's Trial which we have, and which are known to be Ford's only, are but third-rate
work by common consent, and Love's Sacrifice has excited still stronger opinions of condemnation
from persons favourable to Ford. This leaves us practically four plays upon which to base our
estimate--'Tis Pity She's a Whore, The Lover's Melancholy, The Broken Heart, and Perkin Warbeck.
The last-named I shall take the liberty of dismissing summarily with the same borrowed description
as Webster's Appius and Virginia. Hartley Coleridge, perhaps willing to make up if he could
for a general distaste for Ford, volunteered the strange judgment that it is the best specimen
of the historic drama to be found out of Shakespere; and Hazlitt says nothing savage about
it. I shall say nothing more, savage or otherwise. The Lover's Melancholy has been to almost
all its critics a kind of lute-case for the very pretty version of Strada's fancy about the
nightingale, which Crashaw did better; otherwise it is naught. We are, therefore, left with
'Tis Pity She's a Whore and The Broken Heart. For myself, in respect to the first, after repeated
readings and very careful weighings of what has been said, I come back to my first opinion--to
wit, that the Annabella and Giovanni scenes, with all their perversity, all their availing
themselves of what Hazlitt, with his unerring instinct, called "unfair attractions," are among
the very best things of their kind. Of what may be thought unfair in them I shall speak a little
later: but allowing for this, the sheer effects of passion--the "All for love and the world
well lost," the shutting out, not instinctively or stupidly, but deliberately, and with full
knowledge, of all other considerations except the dictates of desire--have never been so rendered
in English except in Romeo and Juliet and Antony and Cleopatra. The comparison of course brings
out Ford's weakness, not merely in execution, but in design; not merely in accomplishment,
but in the choice of means for accomplishment. Shakespere had no need of the haut goût of incest,
of the unnatural horrors of the heart on the dagger. But Ford had; and he in a way (I do not
say fully) justified his use of these means.

The Broken Heart stands far lower. I own that I am with Hazlitt, not Lamb, on the question
of the admired death scene of Calantha. In the first place, it is certainly borrowed from Marston's
Malcontent; in the second, it is wholly unnatural; in the third, the great and crowning point
of it is not, as Lamb seemed to think, Calantha's sentimental inconsistency, but the consistent
and noble death of Orgilus. There Ford was at home, and long as it is it must be given:--

     Cal. "Bloody relator of thy stains in blood,
            For that thou hast reported him, whose fortunes
            And life by thee are both at once snatch'd from him,
            With honourable mention, make thy choice
            Of what death likes thee best, there's all our bounty.
            But to excuse delays, let me, dear cousin,
            Intreat you and these lords see execution
            Instant before you part.

    Near. Your will commands us.

     Org. One suit, just queen, my last: vouchsafe your clemency
            That by no common hand I be divided
            From this my humble frailty.

     Cal. To their wisdoms
            Who are to be spectators of thine end
            I make the reference: those that are dead
            Are dead; had they not now died, of necessity
            They must have paid the debt they owed to nature,
            One time or other. Use dispatch, my lords;
            We'll suddenly prepare our coronation.

                    [Exeunt CAL., PHIL., and CHRIS.

     Arm. 'Tis strange, these tragedies should never touch on
            Her female pity.

    Bass. She has a masculine spirit,
            And wherefore should I pule, and, like a girl,
            Put finger in the eye? Let's be all toughness
            Without distinction betwixt sex and sex.

    Near. Now, Orgilus, thy choice?

     Org. To bleed to death.

     Arm. The executioner?

     Org. Myself, no surgeon;
            I am well skilled in letting blood. Bind fast
            This arm, that so the pipes may from their conduits
            Convey a full stream; here's a skilful instrument:

                    [Shows his dagger.

            Only I am a beggar to some charity
            To speed me in this execution
            By lending the other prick to the other arm
            When this is bubbling life out.

    Bass. I am for you,
            It most concerns my art, my care, my credit,
            Quick, fillet both his arms.

     Org. Gramercy, friendship!
            Such courtesies are real which flow cheerfully
            Without an expectation of requital.
            Reach me a staff in this hand. If a proneness

                    [They give him a staff.

            Or custom in my nature, from my cradle
            Had been inclined to fierce and eager bloodshed,
            A coward guilt hid in a coward quaking,
            Would have betray'd me to ignoble flight
            And vagabond pursuit of dreadful safety:
            But look upon my steadiness and scorn not
            The sickness of my fortune; which since Bassanes
            Was husband to Penthea, had lain bed-rid.
            We trifle time in words: thus I show cunning
            In opening of a vein too full, too lively.

                    [Pierces the vein with his dagger.

     Arm. Desperate courage!

    Near. Honourable infamy!

     Hem. I tremble at the sight.

    Gron. Would I were loose!

    Bass. It sparkles like a lusty wine new broach'd;
            The vessel must be sound from which it issues.
            Grasp hard this other stick--I'll be as nimble--
            But prithee look not pale--Have at ye! stretch out
            Thine arm with vigour and unshaken virtue.

                    [Opens the vein.

            Good! oh I envy not a rival, fitted
            To conquer in extremities: this pastime
            Appears majestical; some high-tuned poem
            Hereafter shall deliver to posterity
            The writer's glory, and his subjects triumph.
            How is't man?--droop not yet.

     Org. I feel no palsies,
            On a pair-royal do I wait in death:
            My sovereign as his liegeman; on my mistress
            As a devoted servant; and on Ithocles
            As if no brave, yet no unworthy enemy:
            Nor did I use an engine to entrap
            His life out of a slavish fear to combat
            Youth, strength, or cunning; but for that I durst not
            Engage the goodness of a cause on fortune
            By which his name might have outfaced my vengeance.
            Oh, Tecnicus, inspired with Phoebus' fire!
            I call to mind thy augury, 'twas perfect;
            Revenge proves its own executioner.
            When feeble man is lending to his mother
            The dust he was first framed in, thus he totters.

    Bass. Life's fountain is dried up.

     Org. So falls the standard
            Of my prerogative in being a creature,
            A mist hangs o'er mine eyes, the sun's bright splendour
            Is clouded in an everlasting shadow.
            Welcome, thou ice that sit'st about my heart,
            No heat can ever thaw thee.

                    [Dies.

The perverse absurdity of a man like Orgilus letting Penthea die by the most horrible of deaths
must be set aside: his vengeance (the primary absurdity granted), is exactly and wholly in
character. But if anything could be decisive against Ford being "of the first order of poets,"
even of dramatic poets, it would be the total lack of interest in the characters of Calantha
and Ithocles. Fate-disappointed love seems (no doubt from something in his own history) to
have had a singular attraction for Lamb; and the glorification, or, as it were, apotheosis
of it in Calantha must have appealed to him in one of those curious and illegitimate ways which
every critic knows. But the mere introduction of Bassanes would show that Ford is not of the
first order of poets. He is a purely contemptible character, neither sublimed by passion of
jealousy, nor kept whole by salt of comic exposition; a mischievous poisonous idiot who ought
to have had his brains knocked out, and whose brains would assuredly have been knocked out,
by any Orgilus of real life. He is absolutely unequal to the place of central personage, and
causer of the harms, of a romantic tragedy such as The Broken Heart.

I have said "by any Orgilus of real life," but Ford has little to do with real life; and it
is in this fact that the insufficiency of his claim to rank among the first order of poets
lies. He was, it is evident, a man of the greatest talent, even of great genius, who, coming
at the end of a long literary movement, exemplified the defects of its decadence. I could compare
him, if there was here any space for such a comparison, to Baudelaire or Flaubert with some
profit; except that he never had Baudelaire's perfect sense of art, and that he does not seem,
like Flaubert, to have laid in, before melancholy marked him for her own, a sufficient stock
of living types to save him from the charge of being a mere study-student. There is no Frédéric,
no M. Homais, in his repertory. Even Giovanni--even Orgilus, his two masterpieces, are, if
not exactly things of shreds and patches, at any rate artificial persons, young men who have
known more of books than of life, and who persevere in their eccentric courses with almost
more than a half knowledge that they are eccentric. Annabella is incomplete, though there is
nothing, except her love, unnatural in her. The strokes which draw her are separate imaginations
of a learned draughtsman, not fresh transcripts from the living model. Penthea and Calantha
are wholly artificial; a live Penthea would never have thought of such a fantastic martyrdom,
unless she had been insane or suffering from green-sickness, and a live Calantha would have
behaved in a perfectly different fashion, or if she had behaved in the same, would have been
quit for her temporary aberration. We see (or at least I think I see) in Ford exactly the signs
which are so familiar to us in our own day, and which repeat themselves regularly at the end
of all periods of distinct literary creativeness--the signs of excentricité voulue. The author
imagines that "all is said" in the ordinary way, and that he must go to the ends of the earth
to fetch something extraordinary. If he is strong enough, as Ford was, he fetches it, and it
is something extraordinary, and we owe him, with all his extravagance, respect and honour for
his labour. But we can never put him on the level of the men who, keeping within ordinary limits,
achieve masterpieces there.

Ford--an Elizabethan in the strict sense for nearly twenty years--did not suffer from the decay
which, as noted above, set in in regard to versification and language among the men of his
own later day. He has not the natural trick of verse and phrase which stamps his greatest contemporaries
unmistakably, and even such lesser ones as his collaborator, Dekker, with a hardly mistakable
mark; but his verse is nervous, well proportioned, well delivered, and at its best a noble
medium. He was by general consent utterly incapable of humour, and his low-comedy scenes are
among the most loathsome in the English theatre. His lyrics are not equal to Shakespere's or
Fletcher's, Dekker's or Shirley's, but they are better than Massinger's. Although he frequently
condescended to the Fletcherian license of the redundant syllable, he never seems to have dropped
(as Fletcher did sometimes, or at least allowed his collaborators to drop) floundering into
the Serbonian bog of stuff that is neither verse nor prose. He showed indeed (and Mr. Swinburne,
with his usual insight, has noticed it, though perhaps he has laid rather too much stress on
it) a tendency towards a severe rule-and-line form both of tragic scheme and of tragic versification,
which may be taken to correspond in a certain fashion (though Mr. Swinburne does not notice
this) to the "correctness" in ordinary poetry of Waller and his followers. Yet he shows no
sign of wishing to discard either the admixture of comedy with tragedy (save in The Broken
Heart, which is perhaps a crucial instance), or blank verse, or the freedom of the English
stage in regard to the unities. In short, Ford was a person distinctly deficient in initiative
and planning genius, but endowed with a great executive faculty. He wanted guidance in all
the greater lines of his art, and he had it not; the result being that he produced unwholesome
and undecided work, only saved by the unmistakable presence of poetical faculty. I do not think
that Webster could ever have done anything better than he did: I think that if Ford had been
born twenty years earlier he might have been second to Shakespere, and at any rate the equal
of Ben Jonson and of Fletcher. But the flagging genius of the time made its imprint on his
own genius, which was of the second order, not the first.

The honour of being last in the great succession of Elizabethan dramatists is usually assigned
to James Shirley.[62] Though last, Shirley is only in part least, and his plays deserve more
reading than has usually fallen to their lot. Not only in the general character of his plays--a
character hardly definable, but recognisable at once by the reader--but by the occurrence of
such things as the famous song, "The glories of our blood and state," and not a few speeches
and tirades, Shirley has a right to his place; as he most unquestionably has also by date.
He was born in London in 1596, was educated at Merchant Tailors' School, and was a member of
both universities, belonging to St. John's College at Oxford, and to Catherine Hall at Cambridge.
Like other dramatists he vacillated in religion, with such sincerity as to give up a living
to which, having been ordained, he had been presented. He was a schoolmaster for a time, began
to write plays about the date of the accession of Charles I., continued to do so till the closing
of the theatres, then returned to schoolmastering, and survived the Restoration nearly seven
years, being buried at St. Giles's in 1666. He appears to have visited Ireland, and at least
one monument of his visit remains in the eccentric play of St. Patrick for Ireland. He is usually
credited with thirty-nine plays, to which it is understood that others, now in MS., have to
be added, while he may also have had a hand in some that are printed but not attributed to
him. Shirley was neither a very great nor a very strong man; and without originals to follow,
it is probable that he would have done nothing. But with Fletcher and Jonson before him he
was able to strike out a certain line of half-humorous, half-romantic drama, and to follow
it with curious equality through his long list of plays, hardly one of which is very much better
than any other, hardly one of which falls below a very respectable standard. He has few or
no single scenes or passages of such high and sustained excellence as to be specially quotable;
and there is throughout him an indefinable flavour as of study of his elders and betters, an
appearance as of a highly competent and gifted pupil in a school, not as of a master and leader
in a movement. The palm is perhaps generally and rightly assigned to The Lady of Pleasure,
1635, a play bearing some faint resemblances to Massinger's City Madam, and Fletcher's Noble
Gentleman (Shirley is known to have finished one or two plays of Fletcher's), and in its turn
the original, or at least the forerunner of a long line of late seventeenth and eighteenth
century plays on the extravagance and haughtiness and caprice of fine ladies. Shirley indeed
was much acted after the Restoration, and exhibits, though on the better side, the transition
of the older into the newer school very well. Of his tragedies The Traitor has the general
suffrage, and perhaps justly. One of Shirley's most characteristic habits was that not of exactly
adapting an old play, but of writing a new one on similar lines accommodated to the taste of
his own day. He constantly did this with Fletcher, and once in The Cardinal he was rash enough
to endeavour to improve upon Webster. His excuse may have been that he was evidently in close
contact with the last survivors of the great school, for besides his work with or on Fletcher,
he collaborated with Chapman in the tragedy of Chabot and the comedy of The Ball--the latter
said to be one of the earliest loci for the use of the word in the sense of an entertainment.
His versification profited by this personal or literary familiarity. It is occasionally lax,
and sins especially by the redundant syllable or syllables, and by the ugly break between auxiliary
verbs and their complements, prepositions and their nouns, and so forth. But it never falls
into the mere shapelessness which was so common with his immediate and younger contemporaries.
Although, as has been said, long passages of high sustained poetry are not easily producible
from him, two short extracts from The Traitor will show his style favourably, but not too favourably.
Amidea, the heroine, declares her intention--

[62] There was a contemporary, Henry Shirley, who was also a playwright. His only extant play,
The Martyred Soldier, a piece of little merit, has been reprinted by Mr. Bullen.

                        "To have my name
    Stand in the ivory register of virgins,
    When I am dead. Before one factious thought
    Should lurk within me to betray my fame
    To such a blot, my hands shall mutiny
    And boldly with a poniard teach my heart
    To weep out a repentance."

And this of her brother Florio's is better still--

    "Let me look upon my sister now:
    Still she retains her beauty,
    Death has been kind to leave her all this sweetness
    Thus in a morning have I oft saluted
    My sister in her chamber: sat upon
    Her bed and talked of many harmless passages.
    But now 'tis night, and a long night with her:
    I shall ne'er see these curtains drawn again
    Until we meet in heaven."

Here the touch, a little weakened it may be, but still the touch of the great age, is perceptible,
especially in the last lines, where the metaphor of the "curtains," common enough in itself
for eyelids, derives freshness and appositeness from the previous mention of the bed. But Shirley
is not often at this high tragic level. His supposed first play, Love Tricks, though it appeared
nearly forty years before the Restoration, has a curious touch of post-Restoration comedy in
its lively, extravagant, easy farce. Sometimes, as in The Witty Fair One, he fell in with the
growing habit of writing a play mainly in prose, but dropping into verse here and there, though
he was quite as ready to write, as in The Wedding, a play in verse with a little prose. Once
he dramatised the Arcadia bodily and by name. At another time he would match a downright interlude
like the Contention for Honour and Riches with a thinly-veiled morality like Honoria and Mammon.
He was a proficient at masques. The Grateful Servant, The Royal Master, The Duke's Mistress,
The Doubtful Heir, The Constant Maid, The Humorous Courtier, are plays whose very titles speak
them, though the first is much the best. The Changes or Love in a Maze was slightly borrowed
from by Dryden in The Maiden Queen, and Hyde Park, a very lively piece, set a fashion of direct
comedy of manners which was largely followed, while The Brothers and The Gamester are other
good examples of different styles. Generally Shirley seems to have been a man of amiable character,
and the worst thing on record about him is his very ungenerous gibing dedication of The Bird
in a Cage to Prynne, then in prison, for his well-known attack on the stage, a piece of retaliation
which, if the enemy had not been "down," would have been fair enough.

Perhaps Shirley's comedy deserves as a whole to be better spoken of than his tragedy. It is
a later variety of the same kind of comedy which we noted as written so largely by Middleton,--a
comedy of mingled manners, intrigue, and humours, improved a good deal in coherence and in
stage management, but destitute of the greater and more romantic touches which emerge from
the chaos of the earlier style. Nearly all the writers whom I shall now proceed to mention
practised this comedy, some better, some worse; but no one with quite such success as Shirley
at his best, and no one with anything like his industry, versatility, and generally high level
of accomplishment. It should perhaps be said that the above-mentioned song, the one piece of
Shirley's generally known, is not from one of his more characteristic pieces, but from The
Contention of Ajax and Ulysses, a work of quite the author's latest days.

Thomas Randolph, the most gifted (according to general estimate rather than to specific performance)
of the Tribe of Ben, was a much younger man than Shirley, though he died more than thirty years
earlier. Randolph was born near Daventry in 1605, his father being a gentleman, and Lord Zouch's
steward. He was educated at Westminster, and at Trinity College, Cambridge, of which he became
a fellow, and he was also incorporated at Oxford. His life is supposed to have been merry,
and was certainly short, for he died, of what disease is not known, in his thirtieth year.
He left, however, no inconsiderable literary results; and if his dramas are not quite so relatively
good as his poems (there is certainly none of them which is in its own kind the equal of the
fine answer to Ben Jonson's threat to leave the stage and the Ode to Anthony Stafford), still
they are interesting and show a strong intellect and great literary facility. The two earliest,
Aristippus and The Conceited Pedlar, the first a slight dramatic sketch, the second a monologue,
are eminent examples of the class of university, not to say of undergraduate, wit; but far
stronger and fuller of promise than most specimens of that class. The Jealous Lovers, a play
with classical nomenclature, and at first seeming to aim at the Terentian model, drifts off
into something like the Jonsonian humour-comedy, of which it gives some good studies, but hardly
a complete example. Much better are The Muses' Looking-Glass and Amyntas, in which Randolph's
academic schemes and names do not hide his vivid and fertile imagination. The Muses' Looking-Glass,
a play vindicating the claim of the drama in general to the title, is a kind of morality, but
a morality carried off with infinite spirit, which excuses the frigid nature of the abstractions
presented in it, and not seldom rises to the height of real comedy. The scene between Colax
and Dyscolus, the professional flatterer and the professional snarler, is really excellent:
and others equally good might be picked out. Of the two I am inclined to think that this play
shows more natural genius in the writer for its style, than the pretty pastoral of Amyntas,
which has sometimes been preferred to it. The same penchant for comedy appears in Down with
Knavery, a very free and lively adaptation of the Plutus of Aristophanes. There is no doubt
that Randolph's work gives the impression of considerable power. At the same time it is fair
to remember that the author's life was one very conducive to precocity, inasmuch as he underwent
at once the three stimulating influences of an elaborate literary education, of endowed leisure
to devote himself to what literary occupations he pleased, and of the emulation caused by literary
society. Jonson's friendship seems to have acted as a forcing-house on the literary faculties
of his friends, and it is quite as possible that, if Randolph had lived, he would have become
a steady-going soaker or a diligent but not originally productive scholar, as that he would
have produced anything of high substantive and permanent value. It is true that many great
writers had not at his age done such good work; but then it must be remembered that they had
also produced little or nothing in point of bulk. It may be plausibly argued that, good as
what Randolph's first thirty years gave is, it ought to have been better still if it was ever
going to be of the best. Hut these excursions into possibilities are not very profitable, and
the chief excuse for indulging in them is that Randolph's critics and editors have generally
done the same, and have as a rule perhaps pursued the indulgence in a rather too enthusiastic
and sanguine spirit. What is not disputable at all is the example given by Randolph of the
powerful influence of Ben on his "tribe."

Very little is known of another of that tribe, Richard Brome. He was once servant to Ben Jonson,
who, though in his own old age he was himself an unsuccessful, and Brome a very successful,
dramatist, seems always to have regarded him with favour, and not to have been influenced by
the rather illiberal attempts of Randolph and others to stir up bad blood between them. Brome
deserved this favour, and spoke nobly of his old master even after Ben's death. He himself
was certainly dead in 1653, when some of his plays were first collected by his namesake (but
it would seem not relation), Alexander Brome. The modern reprint of his dramas takes the liberty,
singular in the collection to which it belongs, of not attempting any kind of critical or biographical
introduction, and no book of reference that I know is much more fertile, the latest authority--the
Dictionary of National Biography, in which Brome is dealt with by the very competent hand of
the Master of Peterhouse--having little enough to tell. Brome's work, however, speaks for itself
and pretty distinctly to all who care to read it. It consists, as printed (for there were others
now lost or uncollected), of fifteen plays, all comedies, all bearing a strong family likeness,
and all belonging to the class of comedy just referred to--that is to say, a cross between
the style of Jonson and that of Fletcher. Of the greater number of these, even if there were
space here, there would be very little to say beyond this general description. Not one of them
is rubbish; not one of them is very good; but all are readable, or would be if they had received
the trouble spent on much far inferior work, of a little editing to put the mechanical part
of their presentation, such as the division of scenes, stage directions, etc., in a uniform
and intelligible condition. Their names (A Mad Couple well Matched, The Sparagus Garden, The
City Wit, and so forth) tell a good deal about their most common form; while in The Lovesick
Court, and one or two others, the half-courtly, half-romantic comedy of Fletcher takes the
place of urban humours. One or two, such as The Queen and Concubine, attempt a statelier and
tragi-comic style, but this was not Brome's forte. Sometimes, as in The Antipodes, there is
an attempt at satire and comedy with a purpose. There are, however, two plays which stand out
distinctly above the rest, and which are the only plays of Brome's known to any but diligent
students of this class of literature. These are The Northern Lass and A Jovial Crew. The first
differs from its fellows only as being of the same class, but better; and the dialect of the
ingénue Constance seems to have been thought interesting and pathetic. The Jovial Crew, with
its lively pictures of gipsy life, is, though it may have been partly suggested by Fletcher's
Beggar's Bush, a very pleasant and fresh comedy. It seems to have been one of its author's
last works, and he speaks of himself in it as "old."

Our two next figures are of somewhat minor importance. Sir Aston Cokain or Cockaine, of a good
Derbyshire family, was born in 1608, and after a long life died just before the accession of
James II. He seems (and indeed positively asserts himself) to have been intimate with most
of the men of letters of Charles I.'s reign; and it has been unkindly suggested that posterity
would have been much more indebted to him if he had given us the biographical particulars,
which in most cases are so much wanted concerning them, instead of wasting his time on translated
and original verse of very little value, and on dramatic composition of still less. As it is,
we owe to him the knowledge of the not unimportant fact that Massinger was a collaborator of
Fletcher. His own plays are distinctly of the lower class, though not quite valueless. The
Obstinate Lady is an echo of Fletcher and Massinger; Trappolin Creduto Principe, an adaptation
of an Italian farce, is a good deal better, and is said, with various stage alterations, to
have held the boards till within the present century under the title of A Duke and no Duke,
or The Duke and the Devil. It is in fact a not unskilful working up of some well-tried theatrical
motives, but has no great literary merit. The tragedy of Ovid, a regular literary tragedy in
careful if not very powerful blank verse, is Cokain's most ambitious effort. Like his other
work it is clearly an "echo" in character.

A more interesting and characteristic example of the "decadence" is Henry Glapthorne. When
the enthusiasm excited by Lamb's specimens, Hazlitt's, and Coleridge's lectures for the Elizabethan
drama, was fresh, and everybody was hunting for new examples of the style, Glapthorne had the
doubtful luck to be made the subject of a very laudatory article in the Retrospective Review,
and two of his plays were reprinted. He was not left in this honourable but comparatively safe
seclusion, and many years later, in 1874, all his plays and poems as known were issued by themselves
in Mr. Pearson's valuable series of reprints. Since then Glapthorne has become something of
a butt; and Mr. Bullen, in conjecturally attributing to him a new play, The Lady Mother, takes
occasion to speak rather unkindly of him. As usual it is a case of ni cet excès d'honneur ni
cette indignité. Personally, Glapthorne has some of the interest that attaches to the unknown.
Between 1639 and 1643, or for the brief space of four years, it is clear that he was a busy
man of letters. He published five plays (six if we admit The Lady Mother), which had some vogue,
and survived as an acted poet into the Restoration period; he produced a small but not despicable
collection of poems of his own; he edited those of his friend Thomas Beedome; he was himself
a friend of Cotton and of Lovelace. But of his antecedents and of the life that followed this
short period of literary activity we know absolutely nothing. The guess that he was at St.
Paul's School is a mere guess; and in the utter and total absence of the least scrap of biographical
information about him, his editor has thought it worth while to print in full some not unamusing
but perfectly irrelevant documents concerning the peccadillos of a certain George Glapthorne
of Whittlesea, who was certainly a contemporary and perhaps a relation. Henry Glapthorne as
a writer is certainly not great, but he is as certainly not contemptible. His tragedy of Albertus
Wallenstein is not merely interesting as showing a reversion to the practice, almost dropped
in his time (perhaps owing to censorship difficulties), of handling contemporary historical
subjects, but contains passages of considerable poetical merit. His Argalus and Parthenia,
a dramatisation of part of the Arcadia, caught the taste of his day, and, like the Wallenstein,
is poetical if not dramatic. The two comedies, The Hollander and Wit in a Constable, are of
the school which has been so frequently described, and not of its strongest, but at the same
time not of its weakest specimens. Love's Privilege, sometimes held his best play, is a rather
flabby tragi-comedy of the Fletcher-Shirley school. In short, Glapthorne, without being positively
good, is good enough to have made it surprising that he is not better, if the explanation did
not present itself pretty clearly. Though evidently not an old man at the time of writing (he
has been guessed, probably enough, to have been a contemporary of Milton, and perhaps a little
older or a little younger), his work has the clear defects of age. It is garrulous and given
to self-repetition (so much so that one of Mr. Bullen's reasons for attributing The Lady Mother
to Glapthorne is the occurrence in it of passages almost literally repeated in his known work);
it testifies to a relish of, and a habituation to, the great school, coupled with powers insufficient
to emulate the work of the great school itself; it is exactly in flavour and character the
last not sprightly runnings of a generous liquor. There is nowhere in it the same absolute
flatness that occurs in the lesser men of the Restoration school, like the Howards and Boyle;
the ancient gust is still too strong for that. It does not show the vulgarity which even Davenant
(who as a dramatist was ten years Glapthorne's senior) too often displays. But we feel in reading
it that the good wine has gone, that we have come to that which is worse.

I have mentioned Davenant; and though he is often classed with, and to some extent belongs
to the post-Reformation school, he is ours for other purposes than that of mere mention. His
Shakespere travesties (in one of which he was assisted by a greater than he), and even the
operas and "entertainments" with which he not only evaded the prohibition of stage plays under
the Commonwealth, but helped to produce a remarkable change in the English drama, do not concern
us. But it must be remembered that Davenant's earlier, most dramatic, and most original playmaking
was done at a time far within our limits. When the tragedy of Albovine (Alboin) was produced,
the Restoration was more than thirty years distant, and Jonson, Chapman, Dekker, and Marston--men
in the strictest sense of the Elizabethan school--were still living, and, in the case of all
but Marston, writing. The Cruel Brother, which, though printed after, was licensed before,
dates three years earlier; and between this time and the closing of the theatres Davenant had
ten plays acted and printed coincidently with the best work of Massinger, Shirley, and Ford.
Nor, though his fame is far below theirs, is the actual merit of these pieces (the two above
mentioned, The Wits, News from Plymouth, The Fair Favourite, The Unfortunate Lovers, etc.),
so much inferior as the fame. The chief point in which Davenant fails is in the failing grasp
of verse above noted. This is curious and so characteristic that it is worth while to give
an example of it, which shall be a fair average specimen and not of the worst:--

    "O noble maid, what expiation can
    Make fit this young and cruel soldier for
    Society of man that hath defiled
    The genius of triumphant glorious war
    With such a rape upon thy liberty!
    Or what less hard than marble of
    The Parian rock can'st thou believe my heart,
    That nurst and bred him my disciple in
    The camp, and yet could teach his valour no
    More tenderness than injured Scytheans use
    When they are wroth to a revenge? But he
    Hath mourned for it: and now Evandra thou
    Art strongly pitiful, that dost so long
    Conceal an anger that would kill us both."

                    Love and Honour, 1649.

Here we have the very poetical counterpart of the last of Jaques' ages, the big manly voice
of the great dramatists sinking into a childish treble that stutters and drivels over the very
alphabet of the poetical tongue.

In such a language as this poetry became impossible, and it is still a matter for wonder by
what trick of elocution actors can have made it tolerable on the stage. Yet it was certainly
tolerated. And not only so, but, when the theatre came to be open again, the discontent with
blank verse, which partly at least drove Dryden and others into rhyme, never seems to have
noticed the fact that the blank verse to which it objected was execrably bad. When Dryden returned
to the more natural medium, he wrote it not indeed with the old many-voiced charm of the best
Elizabethans, but with admirable eloquence and finish. Yet he himself in his earliest plays
staggered and slipped about with the rest, and I do not remember in his voluminous critical
remarks anything going to show that he was consciously aware of the slovenliness into which
his master Davenant and others had allowed themselves and their followers to drop.

One more example and we shall have finished at once with those dramatists of our time whose
work has been collected, and with the chief names of the decadence. Sir John Suckling, who,
in Mr. Swinburne's happy phrase--

                        "Stumbled from above
    And reeled in slippery roads of alien art,"

is represented in the English theatre by four plays, Aglaura, Brennoralt, The Sad One, and
the comedy of The Goblins. Of the tragedies some one, I forget who, has said truly that their
names are the best thing about them. Suckling had a fancy for romantic names, rather suggesting
sometimes the Minerva press of a later time, but still pretty. His serious plays, however,
have all the faults, metrical and other, which have been noticed in Davenant, and in speaking
of his own non-dramatic verse; and they possess as well serious faults as dramas--a combination
of extravagance and dullness, a lack of playwright's grasp, an absence in short of the root
of the matter. How far in other directions besides mere versification he and his fellows had
slipped from the right way, may be perhaps most pleasantly and quite fully discovered from
the perusal, which is not very difficult, of his tragi-comedy or extravaganza, The Goblins. Then
observe the schemes they projected. Conquests, consolidations, empires, dominion, and to include
my own project, a bullion bank with a ten-acre vault. It appears that a lack of capital was at the bottom of
all their plans. Alexander confessed that he was bankrupt for lack of more worlds, and is reputed
to have shed tears over his failure, which might have been expected from a modern dry-goods jobber,
but not from Alexander. Cæsar and Bonaparte failed for the want of men: they do not seem to have
been aware of the existence of Rhode Island. I think Burr failed for the lack of impudence--he
had more than all the rest of the world together, but he needed much more than that to push his
projects ahead of his times.

As for myself, when I have doubled my capital, I shall found my bullion
bank in the face of all opposition.

The ten-acre lot at the corner of Broadway and Wall street is already selected
and paid for, and I shall excavate as soon as the present crop is
off.

There is no question that the occupation of banking conduces to literary
pursuits.

    When I take interest out of my
    fellow beings, I naturally take interest in them, and
    so fall to writing about them.
    
    I have in my portfolio sketches
    of all the leading merchants of the
    age, romantically wrought, and full of details
    of their private lives, hopes, fears, and pleasures.
    These men that go up town every day have had, and
    still have, little fanciful excursions that are quite amusing when
    an observer of my talent notes them down. I know all
    about old Boscobello, the Spanish merchant, of the house
    of Boscobello, Bolaso & Co. My romance of
    his life from twenty to forty fills three volumes,
    and is as exciting as the diaries of those
    amusing French
    
    people whom Bossuet preached to with such small effect.
    Boscobello has sobered since forty, and begs for
    loans as an old business man ought to. I think
    he sees the error of his ways, and is anxious to repair his fortunes
to the old point, but it is easier to spend a million than to make
it.

My cashier reports his account overdrawn the other day, and not made
good till late next afternoon.

This is a sign of failing circumstances, and must be attended to.

When Boscobello comes in about half past two of an afternoon for the
usual loan of a hundred dollars to enable him to go on, I amuse myself
by talking to him while I look over his securities. He has two or three
loans to pay up before three o'clock, in different parts of the town,
and we cannot blame him for being in a hurry, but this is no concern
of mine.

If he will get into a tight place, one may surely take one's time at helping him out: and really it does
require some little time to investigate the class of securities he brings, and which are astonishingly
varied.

For instance, he brought me to-day as collateral to an accommodation, a deed to a South Brooklyn block,
title clouded; a Mackerelville second mortgage; ten shares of coal-oil stock; an undivided quarter
right in a guano island, and the note of a President of the Unterrified
Insurance Company.

'How much was the cartage, Bos?' said I, for you see my great mind descends to the smallest particulars,
and I was benevolent enough to wish to deduct his expenses from the bonus I was about to charge
him for the loan. 'Never mind the cartage,' said he, 'that's a very strong list, and will command
the money any day in Wall street, but I have a particular reason for getting it of you.' 'The particular
reason being,' said I, 'that you can't get it anywhere else.

Jennings,' I continued to my cashier, 'give Mr. Boscobello ninety-five dollars Norfolk or Richmond due-bills,
and take his check payable in current funds next Saturday for a hundred.'

Poor old Boscobello!

A man at forty ought not to look old, but Bos had often seen the sun rise before he went to bed, and he
had been gay, so all my aunts said. Some stories Bos has told me himself, o' nights at my house,
after having in vain endeavored to induce me to take shares in
the guano island, or 'go into' South Brooklyn water lots. 'I'm too
old for that sort of a thing, Bos,' I say; 'it's quite natural for you
to ask me, and I don't blame you for trying it on, but you must find
some younger man.

Tell me about that little affair with
the mysterious Cuban lady; when you only weighed a hundred and forty
pounds, and never went out without a thousand dollars in your pocket--in
the blooming days of youth, Bos, when you went plucking purple pansies
along the shore.'

Boscobello weighs over two hundred now, and would
have a rush of blood to the head if he were to stoop to pluck pansies.

Mysterious Cuban ladies, in fact ladies of any description, would pass him by as a middle-aged person
of a somewhat distressed appearance, and the dreams of his youth
are quite dreamed out.

Nevertheless, when he warms with my white Hermitage, the colors of his old life come richly out into sight, and the
romantic adventures of wealth and high spirits overpower, though
in the tame measures of recital, all the adverse influences of the
present hour.

But as the evening wanes, the colors fade again; his voice assumes a dreary tone; and I once more
feel that I am with a man who has outlived himself, and who, having
never learned where the late roses blow, is now too old to learn.

The reader will perceive I am sorry for Boscobello. If I am remarkable for anything, it is for my
humanity, consideration, and sympathy.

These qualities of my constitution lead me to enter into the affairs of my clients with feeling and sincerity,
but I fear I am sometimes misunderstood. Not long ago I issued an order to my junior partners
to exercise more compassion for those unfortunate men with whom we decline
business, and not to tumble them down the front steps so roughly.
Let six of the porters attend with trestles, I said, and carry them
out carefully, and dump them with discretion in some quiet corner,
where, as soon as they recover their faculties, they may get up and
walk away.

I put it to the reader if this was not a very humane idea, and yet there are those who have stigmatized
it as heartless.

I wish I was better acquainted with the way in which common people
live.

I can see how I have made mistakes in consequence of not understanding the restricted
means and the exigencies of these people, who are styled respectable merchants. Thus
when Boscobello has made some more than ordinarily piteous application,
I have said, 'Boscobello, dismiss about fifty of your servants;'
or, 'Boscobello, sell a railroad and put the money back again into your
business;' or, 'Boscobello, my good friend, limit your table, say, to turtle
soup, champagne, and truffles; live more plainly, and don't take above
ten quarts of strawberries a day during the winter,--the lower servants
don't really need them;' or, 'Boscobello, if you are really short, send
around a hundred or so of your fast trotters to my stables, and I'll
pay you a long figure for them, if they are warranted under two minutes.'
Boscobello has never made any very definite replies to such advice,
and I have attributed his silence to his nervousness; but I begin
to suspect he has'nt quite understood me on such occasions.

Then again, when Twigsmith declared he was a ruined man, in consequence of my refusal of further
advances, and that he should be unable to provide for his family, I said: 'Why, Twigsmith, retire
to one of your country seats, and live on the interest of some canal or other, or discount bonds
and mortgages for the country banks.' Actually, I heard Twigsmith mutter as he went out, that it
wasn't right to insult a man's poverty. Now I hadn't the remotest idea of injuring Twigsmith's
feelings, for he was a very clever fellow, and we made a good thing
out of him in his time, but it seems that my advice might not have
been properly grounded.

It begins to occur to me that there may be such a case as that a man
may want something, and not be able to get it; and again, that at
such a time a weak mind may complain, and grow discouraged, and make
itself disagreeable to others.

There is a set of old fellows who call themselves family men, and
apply for discounts as if they had a right to them, by reason of their
having families to provide for.

I have never yet been able to see the logical sequence of their conclusions, and so I tell
them.

What right does it give anybody to my money that he has a wife, six children, and lives in a
large house with three nursery-maids, a cook, and a boy to clean the knives? 'Limit your expenses,'
I say to these respectable gentlemen, 'do as I do. When Jennings comes to me on Monday morning,
and reports that the receipts of the week will be eighty millions, exclusive of the Labrador
coupons, which, if paid, will be eighty millions more, I say, 'Jennings,
discount seventy, and don't encroach upon the reserves; you may however
let Boscobello have ten on call.' This is true philosophy; adapt your
outlay to your income, and you will never be in trouble, or go begging
for loans.

If the Bank of England had always managed in this way, they wouldn't have been obliged to call on our
house for assistance during the Irish famine.'

These family men
invite me to their wives' parties, constantly, unremittingly.

The billets sometimes reach my desk, although I have given orders to put them all into the
waste basket unopened. I went to one of these parties, only one,
I give you my honor as a gentleman, and after Twigsmith and his horrid
wife had almost wrung my hand off, I was presented to a young female,
to whom Nature had been tolerably kind, but who was most shamefully
dressed.

In fact her dress couldn't have cost over a thousand dollars--one of my chambermaids going to a Teutonia
ball is better got up. This young person asked me 'how I liked the Germania?' Taking it for granted
that such a badly dressed young woman must be a school teacher, with
perhaps classical tastes, I replied that it was one of the most pleasing
compositions of Tacitus, and that I occasionally read it of a morning.

'Oh, it's not very taciturn,' she replied; 'I mean the band.' 'Very true,' said I, 'he says agmen, which
you translate band very happily, though I might possibly say 'body' in a familiar reading.' 'Oh dear,'
she replied, blushing, 'I'm sure I don't know what kind of men they are, nor anything about their bodies,
but they certainly seem very respectable, and they play elegantly; oh, don't you think so?' 'I
am glad you are pleased so easily,' I answered; 'Tacitus describes their performances as indeed
fearful, and calculated to strike horror into the hearts of their enemies. But,' continued
I, endeavoring to make my retreat, for I began to think I was in company with an inmate of
a private lunatic hospital, 'they were devoted to the ladies.' 'Indeed they are,' said she,'and the
harpist is so gallant, and gets so many nice bouquets.' It then flashed across
my mind that she meant the Germania musicians. 'They might do passably
well, madame,' said I, 'for a quadrille party at a country inn, but
for a dress ball or a dinner you would need three of them rolled into
one.' 'Oh, you gentlemen are so hard to please,' she replied; and
catching sight of the Koh-i-noor on my little finger, she began to
smile so sweetly that I fled at once.

It was at that party that I perspired. I had heard doctors talk about perspiration, and I had seen waiters
at a dinner with little drops on their faces, but I supposed it was
the effect of a spatter, or that some champagne had flown into their
eyes, or something of that sort.

But at this party I happened to pass a mirror, and did it the honor to look into it. I saw there the best
dressed man in America, but his face was flushed, and there were drops on it. This is fearful, thought I;
I took my mouchoir and gently removed them. They dampened the delicate fabric, and I shook with
agitation.

The large doors were open, and after a struggle of an hour and three quarters, I reached them, and
promising the hostess to send my valet in the morning to make my respects, which the present
exigency would not allow me to stay to accomplish, I was rapidly whirled homeward. I can hardly pen the details, but
on the removal of my linen, it was found--can I go on?--tumbled, and here and there the snowy lawn confessed
a small damp spot, or fleck of moisture. Remorse and terror seized me. Medical attendance was called,
and I passed the night in a bath of attar of roses delicately medicated
with aqua pura.

Of course, I have never again appeared at a party.

People haven't right ideas of entertainment. What entertainment is it
to stand all the evening in a set of sixteen-by-twenty parlors, jammed
in among all sorts of strange persons, and stranger perfumes, deafened
with a hubbub of senseless talk, and finally be led down to feed at
a long table where the sherry is hot, and the partridges are cold?

Very probably some boy or other across the table lets off a champagne cork into your eyes, and the
fattest men in the room will tread on your toes. One might describe
such scenes of torture at length, but the recital of human follies
and miseries is not agreeable to my sensibilities.

I dare say the reader might find himself gratified at one of my little
fètes.

The editors
of this journal attend them regularly, and have done me the honor to approve
of them. You enter on Twelfth avenue; a modest door just off Nine-and-a-half
street opens quietly, and you are ushered by a polite gentleman--one of our
city bank presidents, who takes this means to increase his income--into
an attiring room.

Here you are dressed by the most accomplished Schneider of the age, in
your own selections from an unequalled repertoire of sartorial chef d'ouvres,
and your old clothes are sent home in an omnibus.

I might delight you with a description of the ball room, but the editors have
requested me to the contrary. Some secrets of gorgeous splendor there are which
are wisely concealed from the general gaze.

But a floor three hundred feet square, and walls as high as the mast of an East Boston clipper,
confer ample room for motion; and the unequalled atmosphere of the saloon is perhaps unnecessarily
refreshed by fountains of rarest distilled waters.

This is also my picture gallery, where all mythology is exhausted by
the great painters of the antique; and modern art is thoroughly illustrated
by the famous landscapes of both hemispheres.

The luxuriant fancy of my favorite artist has suggested unique collocations
of aquaria and mossy grottoes in the angles of the apartment, where
the vegetable wealth of the tropics rises in perfect bounty and lawless
exuberance, and fishes of every hue and shape flash to and fro among
the tangled roots, in the light of a thousand lamps.

In the
centre, I have caused the seats of the orchestra to be hidden at the summit of a picturesque
group of rocks, profusely hung with vegetation, and gemmed with a hundred
tiny fountains that trickle in bright beads and diamonds into the reservoir
at the base. From this eminence, the melody of sixty unequalled performers
pervades the saloon, justly diffused, and on all sides the same;
unlike the crude arrangements of most modern orchestras, where at
one end of the room you are deluged with music, and at the other extremity
you distinguish the notes with pain or difficulty.

The ceiling, by a rare combination of mechanical ingenuity and artistic inspiration, displays, so as to
quite deceive the senses, the heavens with all their stars moving in just and harmonious order. Here
on summer nights you see Lyra and Altair triumphantly blazing in the middle sky as they sweep their
mighty arch through the ample zenith; and low in the south, the Scorpion crawls along the verge
with the red Antares at his heart, and the bright arrows of the Archer forever pursuing him. Here in winter,
gazing up through the warm and perfumed air, you behold those bright
orbs that immemorially suggest the icy blasts of January: Aldebaran;
the mighty suns of Orion; diamond-like Capella; and the clear eyes
of the Gemini.

Under such influences, with the breath of the tropics in your nostrils, and your heart stirred by the
rich melodies of the invisible orchestra, waltzing becomes a sublime
passion, in which all your faculties dilate to utmost expansion, and
you float out into happy forgetfulness of time and destiny.

Rarely at these fêtes do we dance to other measures than those of the
waltz, though at times we find a relief from the luxuriance of that
divine rhythm in the cooler cadences of the Schottish.

By universal consent and instinct, we banish the quadrille, stiff and artificial;
the polka, inelegant and essentially vulgar; and the various hybrid measures
with which the low ingenuity of professors has filled society.

But we move like gods and goddesses to the sadly joyful strains of Strauss and Weber and Beethoven
and Mozart, and the mighty art of these great masters fills and re-creates
all our existence.

Sometimes in these
divine hours, thrilled by the touch of a companion whose heart beats against and consonantly with mine,
I catch glimpses of the possibilities of a free life of the spirit when it shall be released from earth
and gravitation, and I conjecture the breadth of a future existence. This will only seem irrational
to such as have squeezed out their souls flat between the hard edges of dollars,
or have buried them among theologic texts which they are too self-wise to
understand. History and the experience of the young are with me.

From twelve to four you sup, when, and as, and where, you will.

A succession of little rooms lie open around an atrium, all different
as to size and ornament, yet none too large for a single couple, and
none too small for the reunion of six.
 Johnson, as was to be expected, appreciated it thoroughly. Ferriar
in his Illustrations of Sterne pointed out the enormous indebtedness of Tristram Shandy to
Democritus Junior. Charles Lamb, eloquently praising the "fantastic great old man," exhibited
perhaps more perversity than sense in denouncing the modern reprints which, after all, are
not like some modern reprints (notably one of Burton's contemporary, Felltham, to be noticed
shortly), in any real sense garbled. Since that time Burton has to some extent fallen back
to the base uses of a quarry for half-educated journalists; nevertheless, all fit readers of
English literature have loved him.

The book is a sufficiently strange one at first sight; and it is perhaps no great wonder that
uncritical readers should have been bewildered by the bristling quotations from utterly forgotten
authorities which, with full and careful reference for the most part, stud its pages, by its
elaborate but apparently futile marshalling in "partitions" and "members," in "sections" and
"subsections," and by the measureless license of digression which the author allows himself.
It opens with a long epistle, filling some hundred pages in the modern editions, from Democritus
Junior, as the author calls himself, to the reader--an epistle which gives a true foretaste
of the character and style of the text, though, unlike that text, it is not scholastically
divided. The division begins with the text itself, and even the laziest reader will find the
synopses of Burton's "partitions" a curious study. It is impossible to be, at least in appearance,
more methodical, and all the typographical resources of brackets (sub-bracketed even to the
seventh or eighth involution) and of reference letters are exhausted in order to draw up a
conspectus of the causes, symptoms, nature, effects, and cure of melancholy. This method is
not exactly the method of madness, though it is quite possible for a reader to attach more
(as also less) importance to it than it deserves. It seems probable on the whole that the author,
with the scholastic habits of his time, did actually draw out a programme for the treatment
of his subject in some form not very different from these wonderful synopses, and did actually
endeavour to keep to it, or at any rate to work on its lines within the general compass of
the scheme. But on each several head (and reducing them to their lowest terms the heads are
legion) he allowed himself the very widest freedom of digression, not merely in extracting
and applying the fruits of his notebook, but in developing his own thoughts,--a mine hardly
less rich if less extensive than the treasures of the Bodleian Library which are said to have
been put at his disposal.

The consequence is, that the book is one quite impossible to describe in brief space. The melancholy
of which the author treats, and of which, no doubt, he was in some sort the victim, is very
far from being the mere Byronic or Wertherian disease which became so familiar some hundred
years ago. On the other hand, Burton being a practical, and, on the whole, very healthy Englishman,
it came something short of "The Melencolia that transcends all wit," the incurable pessimism
and quiet despair which have been thought to be figured or prefigured in Durer's famous print.
Yet it approaches, and that not distantly, to this latter. It is the Vanity of Vanities of
a man who has gone, in thought at least, over the whole round of human pleasures and interests,
and who, if he has not exactly found all to be vanity, has found each to be accompanied by
some amari aliquid. It is at the same time the frankly expressed hypochondria of a man whose
bodily health was not quite so robust as his mental constitution. It is the satiety of learning
of a man who, nevertheless, knows that learning, or at least literature, is the only cure for
his disease.

In mere style there is perhaps nothing very strongly characteristic in Burton, though there
is much that is noteworthy in the way in which he adapts his style to the peculiar character
of his book. Like Rabelais, he has but rarely occasion to break through his fantastic habit
of stringing others' pearls on a mere string of his own, and to set seriously to the composition
of a paragraph of wholly original prose. But when he does, the effect is remarkable, and shows
that it was owing to no poverty or awkwardness that he chose to be so much of a borrower. In
his usual style, where a mere framework of original may enclose a score or more quotations,
translated or not (the modern habit of translating Burton's quotations spoils, among other
things, the zest of his own quaint habit of adding, as it were, in the same breath, a kind
of summary or paraphrase in English of what he has said in Latin or Greek), he was not superior
to his time in the loose construction of sentences; but the wonder is that his fashion of writing
did not make him even inferior to it. One of his peculiar tricks--the only one, perhaps, which
he uses to the extent of a mannerism--is the suppression of the conjunctions "or" and "and,"
which gives a very quaint air to his strings of synonyms.

[64] Burton, with others of the time, constantly wrote "he" as the equivalent of the classical
demonstratives. Modern, but not better, use prefers "the man," or something similar.

[65] A "dizzard" = a blockhead. Said to be connected with "dizzy."

[66] Fungus, mushroom.

[67] Saldania is Saldanha Bay. As for Tontonteac and Dasamonquepeuc, I shall imitate the manly
frankness of the boy in Henry V., and say, "I do not know what is the French for fer, and ferret,
and firk."

Such, in his outward aspects, is Burton; but of him, even more than of most writers, it may
be said that a brick of the house is no sample. Only by reading him in the proper sense, and
that with diligence, can his great learning, his singular wit and fancy, and the general view
of life and of things belonging to life, which informs and converts to a whole his learning,
his wit, and his fancy alike, be properly conceived. For reading either continuous or desultory,
either grave or gay, at all times of life and in all moods of temper, there are few authors
who stand the test of practice so well as the author of The Anatomy of Melancholy.

Probably, however, among those who can taste old authors, there will always be a friendly but
irreconcilable difference as to the merits of Fuller and Burton, when compared together. There
never can be any among such as to the merits of Fuller, considered in himself. Like Burton,
he was a clerk in orders; but his literary practice, though more copious than that of the author
of The Anatomy, divorced him less from the discharge of his professional duties. He was born,
like Dryden, but twenty-two years earlier, in 1608, at Aldwinkle in Northamptonshire, and in
a parsonage there, but of the other parish (for there are two close together). He was educated
at Cambridge, and, being made prebendary of Salisbury, and vicar of Broadwindsor, almost as
soon as he could take orders, seemed to be in a fair way of preferment. He worked as a parish
priest up to 1640, the year of the beginning of troubles, and the year of his first important
book, The Holy War. But he was a staunch Royalist, though by no means a bigot, and he did not,
like other men of his time, see his way to play Mr. Facing-both-ways. For a time he was a preacher
in London, then he followed the camp as chaplain to the victorious army of Hopton, in the west,
then for a time again he was stationary at Exeter, and after the ruin of the Royal cause he
returned to London, where, though he did not recover his benefices, he was leniently treated,
and even, in 1655, obtained license to preach. Nevertheless, the Restoration would probably
have brought him promotion, but he lived not long enough to receive it, dying on the 15th of
August 1661. He was an extremely industrious writer, publishing, besides the work already mentioned,
and not a few minor pieces (The Holy and Profane State, Thoughts and Contemplations in Good,
Worse, and Better Times, A Pisgah-sight of Palestine), an extensive Church History of Britain,
and, after his death, what is perhaps his masterpiece, The Worthies of England, an extraordinary
miscellany, quartering the ground by counties, filling, in the compactest edition, two mighty
quartos, and containing perhaps the greatest account of miscellaneous fact to be found anywhere
out of an encyclopedia, conveyed in a style the quaintest and most lively to be found anywhere
out of the choicest essayists of the language.

A man of genius who adored Fuller, and who owes to him more than to any one else except Sir
Thomas Browne, has done, in small compass, a service to his memory which is not easily to be
paralleled. Lamb's specimens from Fuller, most of which are only two or three lines long, and
none a pageful, for once contradict the axiom quoted above as to a brick and a house. So perfectly
has the genius of selector and author coincided, that not having myself gone through the verification
of them, I should hardly be surprised to find that Lamb had used his faculty of invention.
Yet this would not matter, for they are perfectly Fullerian. Although Fuller has justly been
praised for his method, and although he never seems to have suffered his fancy to run away
with him to the extent of forgetting or wilfully misrepresenting a fact, the conceits, which
are the chief characteristic of his style, are comparatively independent of the subject. Coleridge
has asserted that "Wit was the stuff and substance of his intellect," an assertion which (with
all the respect due to Coleridge) would have been better phrased in some such way as this,--that
nearly the whole force of his intellect concentrated itself upon the witty presentation of
things. He is illimitably figurative, and though his figures seldom or never fail to carry
illumination of the subject with them, their peculiar character is sufficiently indicated by
the fact that they can almost always be separated from the subject and from the context in
which they occur without any damage to their own felicity. To a thoroughly serious person,
to a person like Lord Chesterfield (who was indeed very serious in his own way, and abhorred
proverbial philosophy), or to one who cannot away with the introduction of a quip in connection
with a solemn subject, and who thinks that indulgence in a gibe is a clear proof that the writer
has no solid argument to produce, Fuller must be nothing but a puzzle or a disgust. That a
pious and earnest divine should, even in that day of quaintness, compare the gradual familiarisation
of Christians with the sacraments of the Church to the habit of children first taking care
of, and then neglecting a pair of new boots, or should describe a brother clerk as "pronouncing
the word damn with such an emphasis as left a dismal echo in his auditors' ears a good while
longer," seems, no doubt, to some excellent people, unpardonable, and almost incomprehensible.
Yet no one has ever impeached the sincerity of Fuller's convictions, and the blamelessness
of his life. That a grave historian should intersperse the innumerable trivialities of the
Worthies may be only less shocking. But he was an eminent proof of his own axiom, "That an
ounce of mirth, with the same degree of grace, will serve God farther than a pound of sadness."
Fuller is perhaps the only writer who, voluminous as he is, will not disappoint the most superficial
inquirer for proofs of the accuracy of the character usually given to him. Nobody perhaps but
himself, in trying to make the best of the Egyptian bondage of the Commonwealth, would have
discovered that the Church, being unrepresented by any of the four hundred and odd members
of Cromwell's Parliament, was better off than when she had Archbishops, Bishops, and a convocation
all to herself, urging, "what civil Christian would not plead for a dumb man," and so enlisting
all the four hundred and odd enemies as friends and representatives. But it is impossible to
enter fully on the subject of Fuller's quips. What may fairly be said of them is, that while
constantly fantastic, and sometimes almost childish, they are never really silly; that they
are never, or hardly ever in bad taste; and that, quaint and far fetched as they are, there
is almost always some application or suggestion which saves them from being mere intellectual
somersaults. The famous one of the "Images of God cut in ebony," is sufficient of itself to
serve as a text. There is in it all the good side of the emancipation propaganda with an entire
freedom from the extravagance, the vulgarity, the injustice, the bad taste which marked that
propaganda a century and more afterwards, when taken up by persons very different from Fuller.
Perhaps it may be well to give an extract of some length from him:--

     "A lady big with child was condemned to perpetual imprisonment,
     and in the dungeon was delivered of a son, who continued with her
     till a boy of some bigness. It happened at one time he heard his
     mother (for see neither of them could, as to decern in so dark a
     place) bemoan her condition.

     "Why, mother (said the child) do you complain, seeing you want
     nothing you can wish, having clothes, meat, and drink sufficient?
     Alas! child (returned the mother), I lack liberty, converse with
     Christians, the light of the sun, and many things more, which
     thou, being prison-born, neither art nor can be sensible of in
     thy condition.

     "The post-nati, understand thereby such striplings born in
     England since the death of monarchy therein, conceive this land,
     their mother, to be in a good estate. For one fruitful harvest
     followeth another, commodities are sold at reasonable rates,
     abundance of brave clothes are worn in the city, though not by
     such persons whose birth doth best become, but whose purses can
     best bestow them.

     "But their mother, England, doth justly bemoan the sad difference
     betwixt her present and former condition; when she enjoyed full
     and free trade without payment of taxes, save so small they
     seemed rather an acknowledgment of their allegiance than a burden
     to their estate; when she had the court of a king, the House of
     Lords, yea, and the Lord's house, decently kept, constantly
     frequented, without falsehood in doctrine, or faction in
     discipline. God of His goodness restore unto us so much of these
     things as may consist with His glory and our good."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "I saw a servant maid, at the command of her mistress, make,
     kindle, and blow a fire. Which done, she was posted away about
     other business, whilst her mistress enjoyed the benefit of the
     fire. Yet I observed that this servant, whilst industriously
     employed in the kindling thereof, got a more general, kindly, and
     continuing heat than her mistress herself. Her heat was only by
     her, and not in her, staying with her no longer than she stayed
     by the chimney; whilst the warmth of the maid was inlaid, and
     equally diffused through the whole body.

     "An estate suddenly gotten is not so lasting to the owner thereof
     as what is duly got by industry. The substance of the diligent,
     saith Solomon, Prov. xii. 27, is precious. He cannot be counted
     poor that hath so many pearls, precious brown bread, precious
     small beer, precious plain clothes, etc. A comfortable
     consideration in this our age, wherein many hands have learned
     their lesson of labour, who were neither born nor bred with it."

The best judges have admitted that, in contradistinction to this perpetual quipping, which
is, as far as it goes, of his time, the general style of Fuller is on the whole rather more
modern than the styles of his contemporaries. It does not seem that this is due to deliberate
intention of shortening and proportioning his prose; for he is as careless as any one of the
whole century about exact grammatical sequence, and seems to have had no objection on any critical
grounds to the long disjointed sentence which was the curse of the time. But his own ruling
passion insensibly disposed him to a certain brevity. He liked to express his figurative conceits
pointedly and antithetically; and point and antithesis are the two things most incompatible
with clauses jointed ad infinitum in Clarendon's manner, with labyrinths of "whos" and "whiches"
such as too frequently content Milton and Taylor. Poles asunder from Hobbes, not merely in
his ultimate conclusions but in the general quality of his mind, he perhaps comes nearest to
the author of the treatise on Human Nature in clear, sensible, unambiguous presentation of
the thing that he means to say; and this, joined to his fecundity in illustration of every
kind, greatly helps the readableness of his books. No work of his as a working out of an original
conception can compete with The Anatomy of Melancholy; but he is as superior in minor method
to Burton as he is inferior in general grasp.

The remainder of the minor Carolines must be dismissed rapidly. A not unimportant position
among the prose writers of this time is occupied by Edward Herbert, Lord Herbert of Cherbury,
the elder brother of George Herbert the poet. He was born in 1583, and finished his life ingloriously,
and indeed discreditably, during the troubles of the civil war, on the 20th of August 1648.
His earlier career is elaborately if not exactly truthfully recorded in his Autobiography,
and its details have been carefully supplemented by his latest editor, Mr. Lee. His literary
activity was various and considerable. His greatest work--a treatise which has been rashly
called the foundation of English deism, but which rather expresses the vague and not wholly
unorthodox doubt expressed earlier by Montaigne, and by contemporaries of Herbert's own, such
as La Mothe le Vayer--was written in Latin, and has never been translated into English. He
was an English verse writer of some merit, though inferior to his brother. His ambitious and
academic History of Henry VIII. is a regular and not unsuccessful effort in English prose,
prompted no doubt by the thoroughgoing courtiership which ranks with his vanity and want of
stability on the most unfavourable aspect of Herbert's character. But posterity has agreed
to take him as an English writer chiefly on the strength of the Autobiography, which remained
in manuscript for a century and more, and was published by Horace Walpole, rather against the
will of Lord Powis, its possessor and its author's representative. It is difficult to say that
Lord Powis was wrong, especially considering that Herbert never published these memoirs, and
seems to have written them as much as anything else for his own private satisfaction. It may
be doubted whether there is any more astounding monument of coxcombry in literature. Herbert
is sometimes cited as a model of a modern knight-errant, of an Amadis born too late. Certainly,
according to his own account, all women loved and all men feared him; but for the former fact
we have nothing but his own authority, and in regard to the latter we have counter evidence
which renders it exceedingly doubtful. He was, according to his own account, a desperate duellist.
But even by this account his duels had a curious habit of being interrupted, in the immortal
phrase of Mr. Winkle, by "several police constables;" while in regard to actual war the exploits
of his youth seem not to have been great, and those of his age were wholly discreditable, inasmuch
as being by profession an ardent Royalist, he took the first opportunity to make, without striking
a blow, a profitable composition with the Parliament. Nevertheless, despite the drawbacks of
subject-matter, the autobiography is a very interesting piece of English prose. The narrative
style, for all its coxcombry and its insistence on petty details, has a singular vivacity;
the constructions, though sometimes incorrect ("the edict was so severe as they who transgressed
were to lose their heads"), are never merely slovenly; and the writer displays an art, very
uncommon in his time, in the alternation of short and long sentences and the general adjustment
of the paragraph. Here and there, too, there are passages of more elevated style which give
reason for regretting that the De Veritate was not written in English. It is very much to be
feared that the chief reason for its being written in Latin was a desire on the author's part
to escape awkward consequences by an appearance of catering for philosophers and the learned
only. It must be admitted that neither of the two great free-thinking Royalists, Hobbes and
Herbert, is a wholly pleasant character; but it may be at least said for the commoner (it cannot
be said for the peer) that he was constant to his principles, and that if somewhat careful
of his skin, he never seems to have been tempted to barter his conscience for it as Herbert did.

Hardly any other writer among the minor Caroline prosaists is important enough to justify a
substantive notice in a work which has already reached and almost exceeded the limits accorded
to it. The excellent style of Cowley's Essays, which is almost more modern than the work of
Dryden and Tillotson, falls in great part actually beyond the limits of our time; and by character,
if not by date, Cowley is left for special treatment in the following volume. He sometimes
relapses into what may be called the general qualities with their accompanying defects of Elizabethan
prose--a contempt of proportion, clearness, and order; a reckless readiness to say everything
that is in the writer's mind, without considering whether it is appropriate or not; a confusion
of English and classical grammar, and occasionally a very scant attention even to rules which
the classical grammars indicate yet more sternly than the vernacular. But as a rule he is distinguished
for exactly the opposite of all these things. Much less modern than Cowley, but still of a
chaster and less fanciful style than most of his contemporaries, is the famous Protestant apologist,
Chillingworth--a man whose orderly mind and freedom from anything like enthusiasm reflected
themselves in the easy balance of his style. Sanderson, Pearson, Baxter, the two former luminaries
of the Church, the latter one of the chief literary lights of Nonconformity, belong more or
less to the period, as does Bishop Hall. Baxter is the most colloquial, the most fanciful,
and the latest, of the three grouped together; the other two are nearer to the plainness of
Chillingworth than to the ornateness of Jeremy Taylor. Few English prose writers again are
better known than Izaak Walton, though it might be difficult to prove that in matter of pure
literature he stands very high. The engaging character of his subjects, and the still more
engaging display of his own temper and mode of thought which he makes in almost every sentence,
both of his Complete Angler and of his hardly less known Lives, account for the survival and
constant popularity of books which are neither above nor below the better work of their time
in literary form. Walton was born in 1593 and died ninety years later. His early manhood was
spent in London as a "linen-draper," but in friendly conversation with the best clerical and
literary society. In 1643 he retired from London to avoid the bustle of the Civil War, and
the Complete Angler appeared in 1653. Another writer contemporary with Walton, though less
long-lived, James Howell, has been the subject of very varying judgments; his appeal being
very much of the same kind as Walton's, but addressed to a different and narrower class of
persons. He was born in 1594(?) of a fair Welsh family, was educated at Jesus College, Oxford,
was employed more than once on confidential business errands on the Continent, entered Parliament,
was made Clerk of the Council, was imprisoned for years in the Fleet during the Civil War,
received at the Restoration the post of Historiographer, and died in 1666. He wrote all manner
of things, but has chiefly survived as the author of a large collection of Familiar Letters,
which have been great favourites with some excellent judges. They have something of the agreeable
garrulousness of Walton. But Howell was not only much more of a gossip than Izaak; he was also
a good deal of a coxcomb, while Walton was destitute of even a trace of coxcombry. In one,
however, as in the other, the attraction of matter completely outdoes the purely literary attraction.
The reader is glad to hear at first hand what men thought of Raleigh's execution; how Ben Jonson
behaved in his cups; how foreign parts looked to a genuine English traveller early in the seventeenth
century, and so forth. Moreover, the book was long a very popular one, and an unusual number
of anecdotes and scraps passed from it into the general literary stock of English writers.
But Howell's manner of telling his stories is not extraordinarily attractive, and has something
self-conscious and artificial about it which detracts from its interest. The Characters of
Overbury were followed and, no doubt, imitated by John Earle, afterwards Bishop of Salisbury,
and a man of some importance. Earle, who was a fellow of Merton, called his sketches Microcosmography.
Nothing in them approaches the celebrated if perhaps not quite genuine milkmaid of Overbury;
but they give evidence of a good deal of direct observation often expressed in a style that
is pointed, such as the description of a bowling green as a place fitted for "the expense of
time, money, and oaths." The church historian and miscellanist Heylin belongs also to the now
fast multiplying class of professional writers who dealt with almost any subject as it might
seem likely to hit the taste of the public. The bold and fantastic speculations of Bishop Wilkins
and Sir Kenelm Digby, and the Oceana or Ideal Republic (last of a long line) of James Harrington
(not to be confounded with the earlier Sir John Harington, translator of Ariosto), deserve
some notice. The famous Eikon Basilike (the authorship of which has perhaps of late years been
too confidently ascribed to Dr. Gauden independently, rather than to the king, edited by Gauden)
has considerable literary merit. Last of all has to be mentioned a curious book, which made
some noise at its appearance, and which, though not much read now, has had two seasons of genuine
popularity, and is still highly thought of by a few good judges. This is the Resolves of Owen
Feltham or Felltham. Not much is known of the author except that he was of a respectable family
in East Anglia, a family which seems to have been especially seated in the neighbourhood of
Lowestoft. Besides the Resolves he wrote some verse, of which the most notable piece is a reply
to Ben Jonson's famous ode to himself ("Come Leave the Loathed Stage")--a reply which even
such a sworn partisan as Gifford admits to be at least just if not very kind. Felltham seems
also to have engaged in controversy with another Johnson, a Jesuit, on theological subjects.
But save for the Resolves he would be totally forgotten. The estimate of their value will differ
very much, as the liking for not very original discussion of ethical subjects and sound if
not very subtle judgment on them overpowers or not in the reader a distaste for style that
has no particular distinction, and ideas which, though often wholesome, are seldom other than
obvious. Wordsworth's well-known description of one of his own poems, as being "a chain of
extremely valuable thoughts," applies no doubt to the Resolves, which, except in elegance,
rather resemble the better-known of Cicero's philosophical works. Moreover, though possessing
no great elegance, they are not inelegant; though it is difficult to forget how differently
Bacon and Browne treated not dissimilar subjects at much the same time. So popular were they
that besides the first edition (which is undated, but must have appeared in or before 1628,
the date of the second), eleven others were called for up to 1709. But it was not for a hundred
years that they were again printed, and then the well-meaning but misguided zeal of their resuscitator
led him not merely to modernise their spelling, etc. (a venial sin, if, which I am not inclined
very positively to lay down, it is a sin at all), but to "improve" their style, sense, and
sentiment by omission, alteration, and other tamperings with the text, so as to give the reader
not what Mr. Felltham wrote early in the seventeenth century, but what Mr. Cummings thought
he ought to have written early in the nineteenth.

This chapter might easily be enlarged, and indeed, as Dryden says, shame must invade the breast
of every writer of literary history on a small scale who is fairly acquainted with his subject,
when he thinks how many worthy men--men much worthier than he can himself ever pretend to be--he
has perforce omitted. Any critic inclined to find fault may ask me where is the ever-memorable
John Hales? Where is Tom Coryat, that most egregious Odcombian? and Barnabee of the unforgotten,
though scandalous, Itinerary? Where is Sir Thomas Urquhart, quaintest of cavaliers, and not
least admirable of translators, who not only rendered Rabelais in a style worthy of him, who
not only wrote in sober seriousness pamphlets with titles, which Master Francis could hardly
have bettered in jest, but who composed a pedigree of the Urquhart family nominatim up to Noah
and Adam, and then improvised chimney pieces in Cromarty Castle, commemorating the prehistoric
ancestors whom he had excogitated? And in his vision he saw fiends drive men and women through the foul
river of the Fiend to their eternal damnation, where

"I at the first
glance saw more pains and torments than the heart of man can imagine
or the tongue relate; a single one of which was sufficient to make
the hair stand erect, the blood to freeze, the flesh to melt, the
bones to drop from their places--yea, the spirit to faint.

What is empaling
or sawing men alive, tearing off the flesh piecemeal with iron pincers,
or broiling the flesh with candles, collop fashion, or squeezing heads
flat in a vice, and all the most shocking devices which ever were
upon earth, compared with one of these? Mere pastime!

There were a hundred thousand shoutings, hoarse cries, and strong groans;
yonder a boisterous wailing and horrible outcry answering them, and the
howling of a dog is sweet, delicious music when compared with these
sounds.

When we had proceeded a little way onward from the accursed beach, towards the wild place of Damnation, I perceived,
by their own light, innumerable men and women here and there; and devils without number and without
rest, incessantly employing their strength in tormenting. Yes, there they were, devils and damned, the
devils roaring with their own torments, and making the damned roar by means of the torments which they inflicted upon
them. I paid particular observation to the corner which was nearest me. There I beheld the devils with
pitchforks, tossing the damned up into the air that they might fall headlong on poisoned hatchets
or barbed pikes, there to wriggle their bowels out

.
 And he can give no such
satisfactory evidence of his having possessed this ensemble, as a short summary of what, in
his idea, the whole period looks like when taken at a bird's-eye view. For he has (or ought
to have) given the details already; and his summary, without in the least compelling readers
to accept it, must give them at least some means of judging whether he has been wandering over
a plain trackless to him, or has been pursuing with confidence a well-planned and well-laid road.

At the time at which our period begins (and which, though psychological epochs rarely coincide
exactly with chronological, is sufficiently coincident with the accession of Elizabeth), it
cannot be said with any precision that there was an English literature at all. There were eminent
English writers, though perhaps one only to whom the first rank could even by the utmost complaisance
be opened or allowed. But there was no literature, in the sense of a system of treating all
subjects in the vernacular, according to methods more or less decidedly arranged and accepted
by a considerable tradition of skilled craftsmen. Something of the kind had partially existed
in the case of the Chaucerian poetic; but it was an altogether isolated something. Efforts,
though hardly conscious ones, had been made in the domain of prose by romancers, such as the
practically unknown Thomas Mallory, by sacred orators like Latimer, by historians like More,
by a few struggling miscellaneous writers. Men like Ascham, Cheke, Wilson, and others had,
perhaps with a little touch of patronage, recommended the regular cultivation of the English
tongue; and immediately before the actual accession of Elizabeth the publication of Tottel's
Miscellany had shown by its collection of the best poetical work of the preceding half century
the extraordinary effect which a judicious xenomania (if I may, without scaring the purists
of language, borrow that useful word from the late Karl Hillebrand) may produce on English.
It is to the exceptional fertilising power of such influences on our stock that we owe all
the marvellous accomplishments of the English tongue, which in this respect--itself at the
head of the Teutonic tongues by an almost unapproachable distance--stands distinguished with
its Teutonic sisters generally from the groups of languages with which it is most likely to
be contrasted. Its literary power is originally less conspicuous than that of the Celtic and
of the Latin stocks; the lack, notorious to this day, of one single original English folk-song
of really great beauty is a rough and general fact which is perfectly borne out by all other
facts. But the exquisite folk-literature of the Celts is absolutely unable either by itself
or with the help of foreign admixture to arrive at complete literary perfection. And the profound
sense of form which characterises the Latins is apparently accompanied by such a deficiency
of originality, that when any foreign model is accepted it receives hardly any colour from
the native genius, and remains a cultivated exotic. The less promising soil of Anglo-Saxon
idiom waited for the foreign influences, ancient and modern, of the Renaissance to act upon
it, and then it produced a crop which has dwarfed all the produce of the modern world, and
has nearly, if not quite, equalled in perfection, while it has much exceeded in bulk and length
of flowering time, the produce of Greece.

The rush of foreign influences on the England of Elizabeth's time, stimulated alike by the
printing press, by religious movements, by the revival of ancient learning, and by the habits
of travel and commerce, has not been equalled in force and volume by anything else in history.
But the different influences of different languages and countries worked with very different
force. To the easier and more generally known of the classical tongues must be assigned by
far the largest place. This was only natural at a time when to the inherited and not yet decayed
use of colloquial and familiar Latin as the vehicle of business, of literature, and of almost
everything that required the committal of written words to paper, was added the scholarly study
of its classical period from the strictly humanist point of view. Does it not seem rather clumsy,
or do you think it a further humorous touch that Viola should have to depend on Malvolio to find
her 'woman's weeds again'?

What becomes evident after tracing the events of the play through in
this way? That the interest of the play does not depend so much upon
the story itself, as, first, upon the amusing situations resultant
from the story, and, second, upon the scenes which introduce the
characters in Olivia's household who are really not at all concerned
in the development of the plot, but who are the occasion of many added
amusing situations.

What constitutes the real interest of the two short scenes between Sebastian and Antonio? Their bearing,
mainly, on scene iv. of Act III. By means of them we are shown that
Antonio has an enemy in Orsino, and thus his arrest is prepared for,
also how Antonio gives his purse to Sebastian, the real purpose of
the arrest being to bring about a reason for Antonio's requiring
his purse again from Cesario, whom he takes for Sebastian, and so
to add complication to the situation arising from the resemblance
between the brother and sister.

What are the situations which the story gives Shakespeare a chance to develop? On the one hand, is the
Duke pouring out his love for another woman to his supposed page,
who is in love with him, and thus giving rise to the series of scenes
between the Duke and Viola.

On the other hand, is the supposed page pressing his master's suit to a woman who loves the supposed
page, and thus giving rise to the series of scenes between Viola and
Olivia. Out of this love of Olivia for Viola grows the absurd situation
of Viola's being obliged to fight a duel, which is made still more
ridiculous through the circumstance of her challenger being a fool.

Out of Viola's resemblance to her brother and her disguise grows the absurd situation of Olivia's claiming
her as a husband, and that of Sir Andrew taking for his unwilling duellist the all-too-willing
Sebastian.

To these situations which naturally result from the story, Shakespeare
has added in Olivia's household a set of characters whose personality
is such that amusing situations are multiplied.

Thus we may say that the play is one of situation rather than of
action, since whatever of action there is in it leads to situation,
and whatever of character there is in it leads also to situation.

QUERIES FOR DISCUSSION

1.

If attention is constantly given to creating humorous situations, will
character-development necessarily suffer? 2. Do you agree with the
Shakespearian critic Verplanck that this play bears no indication either
of an original groundwork of incident, afterwards enriched by the additions
of a fuller mind, or of thoughts, situations, and characters accidentally
suggested, or growing unexpectedly out of the story, as the author
proceeded?

II

THE WHIMSICAL AND OTHER ALLUSIONS IN THE PLAY

Pick out and explain the curious allusions in the play, noticing that these may be classed as geographical,
mythological, astrological, or referable to persons or customs of the
time, or books of the day. For examples of the latter class, note Sir
Toby's 'diluculo surgere' (II. iii.), for 'Saluberrimum est dilucolu surgere,'
an adage from Lilly's Grammar, doubtless one of Shakespeare's text-books
at the Edward VI. School in Stratford; and Viola's 'Some Mollification for your
giant sweet lady' (I. v.),--an allusion to the innumerable romances whose
fair ladies are guarded by giants; for Maria, being very small, Viola
ironically calls her giant, and asks Olivia to pacify her because
she has opposed her message. (For Shakespeare's education and school-books,
see Bayne's remarks on this subject in Brit. Encyc. art. Shakespeare.)
The whole incident of the 'possession' of Malvolio, and the visit of Sir Topas, probably
alludes to a tract published in 1599 by Dr. Harsnett,--'A Discovery of
the Fraudulent Practices of John Darrel,'--in which is narrated how the Starkeys'
children were possessed by a demon, and how the Puritan minister, Mr.
Darrel, was concerned in it. For examples of allusions to contemporary customs,
see Sir Toby's mention of dances no longer known,--'Galliard,' 'Coranto,'
etc. As an example of allusions to persons of that time, Sir Toby's
reference to 'Mistress Mall's picture,'--Mary Frith, born in 1584, died
in 1659, a notorious woman who used to go about in man's clothing and
was the target for much abuse. Astrological allusions: 'Were we not
born under Taurus?' 'That's sides and hearts,' which refers to the medical
astrology still preserved in patent-medicine almanacs, where the figure
of a man has his various parts named by the signs of the Zodiac.
'Diana's lip' (I. iv.), ('Arion on the Dolphin's back' I. ii.), are
examples of mythological allusions. Of the geographical allusions
there are two kinds, the real and the sportive,--Illyria, an example
of the one, the 'Vapians' and the 'Equinoctial of Queubus,' of the
other. Go on through the play classifying and commenting on the allusions.


But it would probably be unwise not to make allowance for a less commonplace and more "metaphysical"
explanation. It was precisely because French and German had certain affinities with English,
while Italian and Spanish, not to mention the classical tongues, were strange and exotic, that
the influence of the latter group was preferred. The craving for something not familiar, for
something new and strange, is well known enough in the individual; and nations are, after all,
only aggregates of individuals. It was exactly because the models of the south were so utterly
divided from the isolated Briton in style and character that he took so kindly to them, and
that their study inspired him so well. There were not, indeed, wanting signs of what mischief
might have been done if English sense had been less robust and the English genius of a less
stubborn idiosyncrasy. Euphuism, the occasional practice of the Senecan drama, the preposterous
and almost incredible experiments in classical metre of men not merely like Drant and Harvey,
but like Sidney and Spenser, were sufficiently striking symptoms of the ferment which was going
on in the literary constitution of the country. But they were only harmless heat-rashes, not
malignant distempers, and the spirit of England won through them, with no loss of general health,
probably with the result of the healthy excretion of many peccant humours which might have
been mischievous if driven in. Even the strongest of all the foreign forces, the just admiration
of the masterpieces of classical antiquity, was not in any way hurtful; and it is curious enough
that it is only in what may be called the autumn and, comparatively speaking, the decadence
of the period that anything that can be called pedantry is observed. It is in Milton and Browne,
not in Shakespere and Hooker, that there is an appearance of undue domination and "obsession"
by the classics.

The subdivisions of the period in which these purely literary influences worked in combination
with those of the domestic and foreign policy of England (on which it is unnecessary here to
dilate), can be drawn with tolerable precision. They are both better marked and more important
in verse than in prose. For it cannot be too often asserted that the age, in the wide sense,
was, despite many notable achievements in the sermo pedestris, not an age of prose but an age
of poetry. The first period extends (taking literary dates) from the publication of Tottel's
Miscellany to that of The Shepherd's Calendar. It is not distinguished by much production of
positive value. In poetry proper the writers pursue and exercise themselves upon the track
of Surrey, Wyatt, and the other authors whom Grimoald, or some other, collected; acquiring,
no doubt, a certain facility in the adjustment to iambic and other measures of the altered
pronunciation since Chaucer's time; practising new combinations in stanza, but inclining too
much to the doggerel Alexandrines and fourteeners (more doggerel still when chance or design
divided them into eights and sixes); repeating, without much variation, images and phrases
directly borrowed from foreign models; and displaying, on the whole, a singular lack of inspiration
which half excuses the mistaken attempt of the younger of them, and of their immediate successors,
to arrive at the desired poetical medium by the use of classical metres. Among men actually
living and writing at this time Lord Buckhurst alone displays a real poetical faculty. Nor
is the case much better in respect of drama, though here the restless variety of tentative
displays even more clearly the vigorous life which underlay incomplete performance, and which
promised better things shortly. The attempt of Gorboduc and a few other plays to naturalise
the artificial tragedy, though a failure, was one of those failures which, in the great literary
"rule of false," help the way to success; the example of Ralph Roister Doister and Gammer Gurton's
Needle could not fail to stimulate the production of genuine native farce which might any day
become la bonne comédie. And even the continued composition of Moralities showed signs of the
growing desire for life and individuality of character. Moreover, the intense and increasing
liking for the theatre in all classes of society, despite the discouragement of the authorities,
the miserable reward offered to actors and playwrights, and the discredit which rested on the
vocations of both, was certain in the ordinary course of things to improve the supply. The
third division of literature made slower progress under less powerful stimulants. No emulation,
like that which tempted the individual graduate or templar to rival Surrey in addressing his
mistress's eyebrow, or Sackville in stately rhyming on English history, acted on the writers
of prose. No public demand, like that which produced the few known and the hundred forgotten
playwrights of the first half of Elizabeth's reign, served as a hotbed. But it is the great
secret of prose that it can dispense with such stimulants. Everybody who wished to make his
thoughts known began, with the help of the printing press, to make them known; and the informal
use of the vernacular, by dint of this unconscious practice and of the growing scholarship
both of writers and readers, tended insensibly to make itself less of a mere written conversation
and more of a finished prose style. Preaching in English, the prose pamphlet, and translations
into the vernacular were, no doubt, the three great schoolmasters in the disciplining of English
prose. But by degrees all classes of subjects were treated in the natural manner, and so the
various subdivisions of prose style--oratorical, narrative, expository, and the rest--slowly
evolved and separated themselves, though hardly, even at the close of the time, had they attained
the condition of finish.

The year 1580 may be fixed on with almost mathematical accuracy as the date at which the great
generation of Elizabethan writers first showed its hand with Lyly's Euphues in prose and Spenser's
Shepherd's Calendar in verse. Drama was a little, but not more than a little, later in showing
the same signs of rejuvenescence; and from that time forward till the end of the century not
a year passed without the appearance of some memorable work or writer; while the total production
of the twenty years exceeds in originality and force, if not always in artistic perfection
of form, the production of any similar period in the world's history. The group of University
Wits, following the example of Lyly (who, however, in drama hardly belongs to the most original
school), started the dramas of history, of romance, of domestic life; and, by fashioning through
their leader Marlowe the tragic decasyllable, put into the hands of the still greater group
who succeeded them an instrument, the power of which it is impossible to exaggerate. Before
the close of the century they had themselves all ceased their stormy careers; but Shakespere
was in the full swing of his activity; Ben Jonson had achieved the freshest and perhaps capital
fruit of his study of humours; Dekker, Webster, Middleton, Chapman, and a crowd of lesser writers
had followed in his steps. In poetry proper the magnificent success of The Faërie Queen had
in one sense no second; but it was surrounded with a crowd of productions hardly inferior in
their own way, the chief being the result of the great and remarkable sonnet outburst of the
last decade of the century. The doggerel of the earlier years had almost entirely disappeared,
and in its place appeared the perfect concerted music of the stanzas (from the sonnet and the
Spenserian downwards), the infinite variety of the decasyllable, and the exquisite lyric snatches
of song in the dramatists, pamphleteers, and music-book writers. Following the general law
already indicated, the formal advance in prose was less, but an enormous stride was made in
the direction of applying it to its various uses. The theologians, with Hooker at their head,
produced almost the first examples of the measured and dignified treatment of argument and
exposition. Bacon (towards the latter end it is true) produced the earliest specimens of his
singular mixture of gravity and fancy, pregnant thought and quaint expression. History in the
proper sense was hardly written, but a score of chroniclers, some not deficient in narrative
power, paved the way for future historians. In imaginative and miscellaneous literature the
fantastic extravagances of Lyly seemed as though they might have an evil effect. In reality
they only spurred ingenious souls on to effort in refining prose, and in one particular direction
they had a most unlooked for result. The imitation in little by Greene, Lodge, and others,
of their long-winded graces, helped to popularise the pamphlet, and the popularisation of the
pamphlet led the way to periodical writing--an introduction perhaps of doubtful value in itself,
but certainly a matter of no small importance in the history of literature. And so by degrees
professional men of letters arose--men of letters, professional in a sense, which had not existed
since the days of the travelling Jongleurs of the early Middle Ages. These men, by working
for the actors in drama, or by working for the publishers in the prose and verse pamphlet (for
the latter form still held its ground), earned a subsistence which would seem sometimes to
have been not a mere pittance, and which at any rate, when folly and vice did not dissipate
it, kept them alive. Much nonsense no doubt has been talked about the Fourth Estate; but such
as it is, for good or for bad, it practically came into existence in these prolific years.

The third period, that of vigorous manhood, may be said to coincide roughly with the reign
of James I., though if literary rather than political dates be preferred, it might be made
to begin with the death of Spenser in 1599, and to end with the damnation of Ben Jonson's New
Inn just thirty years later. In the whole of this period till the very last there is no other
sign of decadence than the gradual dropping off in the course of nature of the great men of
the preceding stage, not a few of whom, however, survived into the next, while the places of
those who fell were taken in some cases by others hardly below the greatest, such as Beaumont
and Fletcher. Many of the very greatest works of what is generally known as the Elizabethan
era--the later dramas of Shakespere, almost the whole work of Ben Jonson, the later poems of
Drayton, Daniel, and Chapman, the plays of Webster and Middleton, and the prose of Raleigh,
the best work of Bacon, the poetry of Browne and Wither--date from this time, while the astonishingly
various and excellent work of the two great dramatists above mentioned is wholly comprised
within it. And not only is there no sign of weakening, but there is hardly a sign of change.
A slight, though only a slight, depression of the imaginative and moral tone may be noticed
or fancied in those who, like Fletcher, are wholly of the period, and a certain improvement
in general technical execution testifies to longer practice. But Webster might as well have
written years earlier (hardly so well years later) than he actually did; and especially in
the case of numerous anonymous or single works, the date of which, or at least of their composition,
is obscure, it is very difficult from internal evidence of style and sentiment to assign them
to one date rather than to another, to the last part of the strictly Elizabethan or the first
part of the strictly Jacobean period. Were it not for the occasional imitation of models, the
occasional reference to dated facts, it would be not so much difficult as impossible. If there
seems to be less audacity of experiment, less of the fire of youth, less of the unrestrainable
restlessness of genius eager to burst its way, that, as has been already remarked of another
difference, may not improbably be mainly due to fancy, and to the knowledge that the later
efforts actually were later as to anything else. In prose more particularly there is no change
whatever. Few new experiments in style were tried, unless the Characters of Overbury and Earle
may be called such. The miscellaneous pamphlets of the time were written in much the same fashion,
and in some cases by the same men, as when, forty years before Jonson summoned himself to "quit
the loathed stage," Nash had alternately laughed at Gabriel Harvey, and savagely lashed the
Martinists. The graver writers certainly had not improved upon, and had not greatly changed
the style in which Hooker broke his lance with Travers, or descanted on the sanctity of law.
The humour-comedy of Jonson, the romantic drame of Fletcher, with the marmoreally-finished
minor poems of Ben, were the nearest approaches of any product of the time to novelty of general
style, and all three were destined to be constantly imitated, though only in the last case
with much real success, during the rest of our present period. Yet the post-Restoration comedy
is almost as much due to Jonson and Fletcher as to foreign models, and the influence of both,
after long failing to produce anything of merit, was not imperceptible even in Congreve and
Vanbrugh.

Of the fourth period, which practically covers the reign of Charles I. and the interregnum
of the Commonwealth, no one can say that it shows no signs of decadence, when the meaning of
that word is calculated according to the cautions given above in noticing its poets. The most remarkable
instance of a face being a fortune, in this respect, is our own Liston. If he had not possessed
a comic countenance, nothing could have prevented him from being
a tragic actor, or have made him a comic one; for it is well understood
that all his inclinations led him in that direction.

The truth is, that Liston's style of acting is too chaste and natural
to have been so universally popular as it is, but for the irresistible
drollery of his features--which are the finest farce that ever was
written.

Now in this respect, as in all others, Potier differs from his contemporaries.

His

voice, his face, and his person altogether, are in themselves antidotes
to mirth, and might almost be supposed to set it at defiance.

He might
play the Apothecary, in Romeo and Juliet, or the Anatomie Vivante,
without painting for them--as Stephen Kemble used to play their antithesis,
Falstaff, without stuffing.

And yet, instead of this seeming contradiction counteracting the essentially
comic turn of his mind, the latter is so completely paramount, that
it changes every thing within its reach to its own complexion.--New
Monthly Magazine.

* * * * *

FRAGMENT OF THE NARRATIVE OF A STUDENT AT LAW.

This is a portion of what the writer calls "a series of the most singular
and mysterious events," commenced January 29,1791.

It is perhaps a romance of real life, although there is something in
it beyond probability--but nothing impossible.

Our student is at first almost cut by an acquaintance for neglecting
to notice him in the park, when in fact he was not in the park: the
hall butler of the Temple proves by the parchment that he dined there
four days of term, when he was sick, and some distance from town:
next he is cut by a second acquaintance for not recognising him at
a masquerade: then a similar affair occurs with a beautiful girl in
----- square; at the Theatre; and on the Serpentine.

He is next recognised by an old friend at a gaming-table, who mentions
the sale of an estate there for his last stake, which property our
student really had sold, though under different circumstances; and
then rejected by his chère amie for a slight which he never offered.

The last event or link of this mysterious chain is familiarly
narrated as follows:--

In returning one morning from Westminster,
as I was passing through one of those small courts between Essex-street
and Norfolk-street, (for of late I had sought the most retired ways,)
I observed that two persons, of rather mean appearance, seemed to
be dogging my footsteps.

Uneasy at this circumstance, I hastened directly on to my chambers.
I had, however, scarcely seated myself, when my servant informed me
that two men wished to speak to me. On being admitted, they told
me that they were officers of the police, and that they had a warrant
to arrest me on a charge of felony.

Surprise at the moment prevented my speaking; but as soon as I recovered
myself I offered to accompany them to the magistrate.

He was sitting, and the witnesses being in attendance, my examination took place immediately.
A young man, of gentleman-like address, swore, that on the preceding evening he had been induced by
one of his friends to visit one of the gambling-houses in the Haymarket--that he there saw me
both playing and betting very rashly--that I appeared to be losing--that at length I quitted the room,
and that soon afterwards his friend and himself followed. Now came the accusation. He swore, that just as
he was leaving the door he felt some person drawing his purse from his pocket--that he immediately
pursued the man, and at the corner of Jermyn-street seized me.


Something has yet to be said as to the general characteristics of this time--characteristics
which, scarcely discernible in the first period, yet even there to be traced in such work as
that of Surrey and Sackville, emerge into full prominence in the next, continue with hardly
any loss in the third, and are discernible even in the "decadence" of the fourth. Even yet
they are not universally recognised, and it appears to be sometimes thought that because critics
speak with enthusiasm of periods in which, save at rare intervals, and as it were by accident,
they are not discernible at all, such critics are insensible to them where they occur. Never
was there a grosser mistake. It is said that M. Taine, in private conversation, once said to
a literary novice who rashly asked him whether he liked this or that, "Monsieur, en littérature
j'aime tout." It was a noble and correct sentiment, though it might be a little difficult for
the particular critic who formulated it to make good his claim to it as a motto. The ideal
critic undoubtedly does like everything in literature, provided that it is good of its kind.
He likes the unsophisticated tentatives of the earliest minstrel poetry, and the cultivated
perfection of form of Racine and Pope; he likes the massive vigour of the French and English
sixteenth centuries, and the alembicated exquisiteness of Catullus and Carew; he does not dislike
Webster because he is not Dryden, or Young because he is not Spenser; he does not quarrel with
Sophocles because he is not Æschylus, or with Hugo because he is not Heine. But at the same
time it is impossible for him not to recognise that there are certain periods where inspiration
and accomplishment meet in a fashion which may be sought for in vain at others. These are the
great periods of literature, and there are perhaps only five of them, with five others which
may be said to be almost level. The five first are the great age of Greek literature from Æschylus
to Plato, the great ages of English and French literature in the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, the whole range of Italian literature from Dante to Ariosto, and the second great
age of English from the Lyrical Ballads to the death of Coleridge. It is the super-eminent
glory of English that it counts twice in the reckoning. The five seconds are the Augustan age
of Latin, the short but brilliant period of Spanish literary development, the Romantic era
in France, the age of Goethe in Germany, including Heine's earlier and best work, and (with
difficulty, and by allowance chiefly of Swift and Dryden) the half century from the appearance
of Absalom and Achitophel to the appearance of Gulliver and The Dunciad in England. Out of
these there are great men but no great periods, and the first class is distinguished from the
second, not so much by the fact that almost all the greatest literary names of the world are
found in it, as because it is evident to a careful reader that there was more of the general
spirit of poetry and of literature diffused in human brains at these times than at any other.
It has been said more than once that English Elizabethan literature may, and not merely in
virtue of Shakespere, claim the first place even among the first class. The full justification
of this assertion could only be given by actually going through the whole range of the literature,
book in hand. The foregoing pages have given it as it were in précis, rather than in any fuller
fashion. And it has been thought better to devote some of the space permitted to extract as
the only possible substitute for this continual book-in-hand exemplification. Many subjects
which might properly form the subject of excursus in a larger history have been perforce omitted,
the object being to give, not a series of interesting essays on detached points, but a conspectus
of the actual literary progress and accomplishment of the century, from 1557 to 1660. Such
essays exist already in great numbers, though some no doubt are yet to write. The extraordinary
influence of Plato, or at least of a more or less indistinctly understood Platonism, on many
of the finer minds of the earlier and middle period, is a very interesting point, and it has
been plausibly connected with the fact that Giordano Bruno was for some years a resident in
England, and was acquainted with the Greville-Sidney circle at the very time that that circle
was almost the cradle of the new English literature. The stimulus given not merely by the popular
fancy for rough dramatic entertainments, but by the taste of courts and rich nobles for masques--a
taste which favoured the composition of such exquisite literature as Ben Jonson's and Milton's
masterpieces--is another side subject of the same kind. I do not know that, much as has been
written on the Reformation, the direct influence of the form which the Reformation took in
England on the growth of English literature has ever been estimated and summarised fully and
yet briefly, so as to show the contrast between the distinctly anti-literary character of most
of the foreign Protestant and the English Puritan movement on the one side, and the literary
tendencies of Anglicanism on the other. The origins of Euphuism and of that later form of preciousness
which is sometimes called Gongorism and sometimes Marinism have been much discussed, but the
last word has certainly not been said on them. For these things, however (which are merely
quoted as examples of a very numerous class), there could be found no place here without excluding
other things more centrally necessary to the unfolding of the history. And therefore I may
leave what I have written with a short final indication of what seems to me the distinguishing
mark of Elizabethan literature. That mark is not merely the presence of individual works of
the greatest excellence, but the diffusion throughout the whole work of the time of a vivida
vis, of flashes of beauty in prose and verse, which hardly any other period can show. Let us
open one of the songbooks of the time, Dowland's Second Book of Airs, published in the central
year of our period, 1600, and reprinted by Mr Arber. Here almost at random we hit upon this
snatch--

    "Come ye heavy states of night,
    Do my father's spirit right;
    Soundings baleful let me borrow,
    Burthening my song with sorrow:
    Come sorrow, come! Her eyes that sings
    By thee, are turnèd into springs.

    "Come you Virgins of the night
    That in dirges sad delight,
    Quire my anthems; I do borrow
    Gold nor pearl, but sounds of sorrow.
    Come sorrow, come! After his marriage Tennyson
    lived for some time at Twickenham, where in 1852 Hallam Tennyson
was born.

In 1851 he and his wife visited Italy, a visit commemorated in The Daisy. In 1853 they removed
to Farringford at Freshwater in the Isle of Wight, a residence subsequently purchased with the proceeds
of Maud, published in 1855. The poem had a somewhat mixed reception, being received in some quarters
with unstinted abuse and in others with the warmest praise. In the year that Maud was published
Tennyson received the honorary degree of D.C.L., from Oxford. In 1859 was published the first four
of the Idylls of the King, followed in 1864 by Enoch Arden and Other Poems. In 1865 his mother died.
In 1869 he occupied Aldworth, an almost inaccessible residence in
Surrey, near London, in order to escape the annoyance of summer visitors
to the Isle of Wight, who insisted on invading his privacy, which,
perhaps, more than any other he especially valued.

From 1870 to 1880 Tennyson was engaged principally on his dramas--Queen
Mary, Harold, and Becket,--but, with the exception of the last, these
did not prove particularly successful on the stage.

In 1880 Ballads and Poems was published, an astonishing volume from one so advanced in years. In 1882
the Promise of May was produced in public, but was soon withdrawn. In 1884 Tennyson was raised
to the peerage as Baron Tennyson of Aldworth and Farringford, after having on two previous
occasions refused a baronetcy. In 1885 Tiresias and Other Poems was published. In this volume
was published Balin and Balan, thus completing the Idylls of the King, which now assumed their
permanent order and form. Demeter and Other Poems followed in 1889, including Crossing the Bar.
In 1892, on October 6th, the poet died at Aldworth, "with the moonlight upon his bed and an
open Shakespeare by his side." A few days later he was buried in Westminster Abbey, by the
side of Robert Browning, his friend and contemporary, who had preceded him by only a few years.
To this may be added a paragraph from Caroline Fox: "Tennyson is a grand specimen of a man, with a
magnificent head set on his shoulders like the capital of a mighty pillar. His hair is long and wavy and covers
a massive head. He wears a beard and mustache, which one begrudges as hiding so much of that firm, powerful,
but finely-chiselled mouth. His eyes are large and gray, and open wide when a subject interests
him; they are well shaded by the noble brow, with its strong lines
of thought and suffering.

I can quite understand Samuel Lawrence calling it the best balance
of head he had ever seen."

  

  
        
    
        

  CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE
    
    

Born, August 6, 1809, at Somersby, Lincolnshire.

Goes to Louth Grammar School, 1816.

Publishes, along with his brother Charles, Poems by Two Brothers,
1827.

Goes to Trinity College, Cambridge, 1828.

Forms friendship with Arthur Henry Hallam, 1828.

Wins Vice-Chancellor's Gold Medal for his poem Timbuctoo, 1829.

Publishes
Poems, Chiefly Lyrical, 1830.

Makes an expedition to the Pyrenees
with Arthur Henry Hallam, 1830.

Leaves Cambridge, owing to the illness
of his father, 1831.

Visits the Rhine with Arthur Henry Hallam, 1832.

Publishes
Poems by Alfred Tennyson, 1832.

Arthur Henry Hallam dies, 1833.

  Barnes, Barnabe, Parthenophil and Parthenophe. In Grosart's Occasional
        Issues, vol. i.
    The Devil's Charter. Ed. M'Kerrow, Louvain.

  Barnfield, Richard, Poems. Ed. Arber, Birmingham, 1882.

  Basse, William, Poems of. Ed. Bond, London, 1893.

  Beaumont, Francis, Poems of. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. vi.

  Beaumont, Sir John, Poems of. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. vi.

  Beaumont, Joseph, Poems of. Ed. Grosart, 2 vols. Privately printed, 1880.

  Beaumont and Fletcher, Dramatic Works of. 10 vols., London, 1750.
    2 vols., Ed. Darley, London, 1859.
    11 vols., Ed. Dyce, London, 1843.
    Two new editions in progress now (1907)--one Ed. Bullen, London,
    the other Ed. Waller, Cambridge.

  Benlowes, Edward, Theophila. In Minor Caroline Poets, vol. i., Oxford,
        1905.

  Bible. The Holy Bible, Authorised Version, Oxford, 1851.
    Revised Version, Oxford, 1885.

  Breton, Nicholas, Works of. Ed. Grosart, 2 vols. Privately printed, 1879.

  Brome, Alexander, Poems of. In Chalmers's Poets, vol. vi.

  Brome, Richard, Plays of. 3 vols., London, 1873.

  Brooke, Fulke Greville, Lord, Works of. Ed. Grosart, 4 vols. Privately
        printed, 1870.

  Browne, Sir Thomas, Works of. Ed. Wilkin, 3 vols., London, 1880.
    Religio Medici. Ed. Greenhill, London, 1881.

  Browne, William, Poems of. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. vi.
    Also 2 vols. Ed. Hazlitt, London, 1868.
    Also Ed. Goodwin, 2 vols., London, 1894.

  Bullen, A. H., Old Plays, 4 vols., London, 1882-85.
    Ditto, New Series, Vols, i. ii. iii., London, 1887-90.
    Lyrics from Elizabethan Song-books, 2 vols., 1887-88. Ditto, Romances,
        1890. Ditto, Dramatists, 1890.
    Speculum Amantis, 1891.
    Davison's Poetical Rhapsody, 2 vols., 1891.
    England's Helicon. London, 1887.
    Arden of Feversham. London, 1887.

  Burton, Robert, The Anatomy of Melancholy. 2 vols., London, 1821.

  Carey, Patrick. In Minor Caroline Poets, vol. ii., Oxford, 1906.

  Carew, Thomas, Poems of. Edinburgh, 1824.
    Also in Chalmers's Poets, vol. v.
    Also Ed. Hazlitt, London, 1868.

  Cartwright, William, Poems of. In Chalmers's Poets, vol. vi.

  Chalkhill, John, Thealma and Clearchus. In Minor Caroline Poets, vol. ii.

  Chalmers, A., British Poets, 21 vols., London, 1810.

  Chamberlayne, William, Pharonnida. In Minor Caroline Poets, vol. i.

  Chapman, George, Works of. 3 vols., London, 1875.

  Churchyard, T. No complete edition. Some things reprinted by Collier and
        in Heliconia.

  Clarendon, Edward Hyde, Earl of. Works, 1 vol., Oxford, 1843.

  Cleveland, John. Contemporary edd. numerous but puzzling and
        untrustworthy.
    A recent one by J. M. Berdan, New York, n.d.

  Cokain, Sir Aston, Plays of. Edinburgh, 1874.

  Constable, Henry, Diana. In Arber's English Garner, vol. ii.

  Corbet, Bishop, Poems of. In Chalmers's Poets, vol. v.

  Cotton, Charles, Poems of. In Chalmers's Poets, vol. vi.

  Crashaw, Richard, Poems of. Ed. Grosart, 2 vols. Privately printed, 1872.
    Also in Chalmers's British Poets, vol. vi.
    Also Ed. Waller, Cambridge, 1904.

  Daniel, Samuel, Delia. In Arber's English Garner, vol. iii.
    Also Works of. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. iii.
    Also Works of. Ed. Grosart, 5 vols. Privately printed, 1885-96.

  Davenant, Sir William, Dramatic Works of. 5 vols., Edinburgh, 1872-73.
    Poems of. Chalmers's British Poets, vol. iv.

  Davies, Sir John, Poems of. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. v.

  Davies, John, of Hereford, Works. Ed. Grosart, 2 vols. Privately printed,
        1878.

  Day, John, Works of. Ed. Bullen. Privately printed, 1881.

  Dekker, Thomas, Dramatic Works of. 4 vols., London, 1873.
    Prose Works of. 5 vols. Ed. Grosart. Privately printed, 1884-86.
    Also Ed. Chambers, 2 vols., London, 1896.

  Drayton, Michael, Idea. In Arber's English Garner, vol. vi.
    Works of. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. iv.

  Drummond, William, Poems of. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. v.
    Also Published for the Maitland Club. Edinburgh, 1832.

  Dyer, Sir Edward, Poems of. In Hannah's Courtly Poets.

  Early English Dramatists. Ed. Farmer, vols. i.-ix., London, 1905-6.

  Eden, Richard, The First Three English Books on America. Ed. Arber,
        Birmingham, 1885.

  Elizabethan Critical Essays. Ed. G. Smith, 2 vols., Oxford, 1904.

  Elizabethan Sonnets. Ed. Lee, 2 vols., London, 1904.

  Felltham, Owen, Resolves. London, 1820 (but see p. 443).

  Fletcher, Giles, Licia. In Grosart's Occasional Issues, vol, ii.

  Fletcher, Giles, the younger, Poems of. In Chalmers's British Poets,
        vol. vi.

  Fletcher, Phineas, Poems of. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. vi.

  Ford, John, Works of. Ed. Hartley Coleridge, London, 1859.

  Fuller, Thomas, Worthies of England. Ed. Nichols, 2 vols. 4to, London,
        1811.
    Thoughts in Good Times. London, 1885.
    Holy and Profane State. London, 1642.
    Church History. London, 1655.

  Gascoigne, George, Works of. Ed. Hazlitt, London, 1868.
    Also in Chalmers's British Poets, vol. ii.

  Gifford, Humphrey, A Posy of Gillyflowers. In Grosart's Occasional
        Issues, vol. i.

  Glapthorne, Henry, Works of. 2 vols., London, 1874.

  Godolphin, Sidney, Poems of. In Minor Caroline Poets, vol. ii.

  Goff, Thomas, Plays. London, 1656.

  Googe, Barnabe, Eclogues, Epitaphs, and Sonnets. Ed. Arber, London, 1871.

  Greene, Robert, Dramatic Works of. Ed. Dyce, London, 1883.
    Also Ed. Collins, 2 vols., Oxford, 1905.
    Also Complete Works of. Ed. Grosart, 13 vols. Privately printed,
        1881-86.

  Griffin, Bartholomew, Fidessa. In Grosart's Occasional Issues, vol. ii.

  Grosart, A. B., Fuller Worthies Library. Chertsey Worthies Library.
    Occasional Issues. Privately printed, v.d.

  Guilpin, Edward, Skialetheia. In Grosart's Occasional Issues, vol. vi.

  Habington, William, Castara. Ed. Arber, London, 1870. And
    in his vision he saw fiends drive men and women through the foul
river of the Fiend to their eternal damnation, where

"I at the first
glance saw more pains and torments than the heart of man can imagine
or the tongue relate; a single one of which was sufficient to make
the hair stand erect, the blood to freeze, the flesh to melt, the
bones to drop from their places--yea, the spirit to faint.

What is empaling
or sawing men alive, tearing off the flesh piecemeal with iron pincers,
or broiling the flesh with candles, collop fashion, or squeezing heads
flat in a vice, and all the most shocking devices which ever were
upon earth, compared with one of these? Mere pastime!

There were a hundred thousand shoutings, hoarse cries, and strong groans;
yonder a boisterous wailing and horrible outcry answering them, and the
howling of a dog is sweet, delicious music when compared with these
sounds.

When we had proceeded a little way onward from the accursed beach, towards
the wild place of Damnation, I perceived, by their own light, innumerable
men and women here and there; and devils without number and without
rest, incessantly employing their strength in tormenting.

  
    
Yes, there they were, devils and damned, the devils roaring with their own
torments, and making the damned roar by means of the torments which they
inflicted upon them. I paid particular observation to the corner which
was nearest me.

  

  

  
        There I beheld
    the devils with pitchforks, tossing the damned up into the air that they
might fall headlong on poisoned hatchets or barbed pikes, there to wriggle
their bowels out.

  
        

  



  Jonson, Ben, Works of. Ed. Cunningham, 3 vols., London, n.d.

  Knolles, Richard, History of the Turks. Third Edition, London, 1621.

  Kyd, Thomas, Cornelia. In Hazlitt's Dodsley, vol. v.
    Jeronimo, (?) in do. vol. iv.
    The Spanish Tragedy, in do. vol. v.
    Works. Ed. Boas, Oxford, 1900.

  Kynaston, Sir Francis, Poems of. In Minor Caroline Poets, vol, ii.

  Lodge, Thomas, Euphues' Golden Legacy in Shakespere's Library, vol. ii.,
        London, 1875.

  Lovelace, Richard, Poems of. Ed. Hazlitt, London, 1864.

  Lyly, John, Euphues. Ed. Arber, London, 1868.
    Dramatic Works. Ed. Fairholt, 2 vols., London, 1858.
    Complete Works. Ed. Bond, 3 vols., Oxford, 1902.

  Lynch, Diella. In Grosart's Occasional Issues, vol. iv.

  Marlowe, Christopher, Works of. Ed. Dyce, London, 1859.
    Also Ed. Bullen, 3 vols., London, 1887.

  Marmion, Shakerley, Plays of. Edinburgh, 1874.
    Cupid and Psyche. In Minor Caroline Poets, vol. ii.

  Marprelate, Martin, Tracts by and against. See text.
    The Epistle. Ed. Petheram.
    Also Ed. Arber, The English Scholars' Library.
    Diotrephes, by N. Udall. Ed. Arber.
    Demonstration of Discipline, by N. Udall. Ed. Arber.
    An Admonition to the People of England, by T. C. Ed. Petheram.
    Also Ed. Arber.
    Hay any Work for Cooper. Ed. Petheram.
    Pap with a Hatchet. Ed. Petheram.
    An Almond for a Parrot. Ed. Petheram.
    A Counter-Cuff to Martin Junior, etc., in Works of Nash. Ed. Grosart.
    Plain Percival, the Peacemaker of England. Ed. Petheram.

  Marston, John, Works of. Ed. Halliwell, 3 vols., London, 1856.
    Also Ed. Bullen, 3 vols., London, 1885.
    Poems of. In Grosart's Occasional Issues, vol. xi.

  Massinger, Philip. Ed. Hartley Coleridge, London, 1859.

  Middleton, Thomas, Dramatic Works of. Ed. Bullen, 8 vols., London, 1886.

  Milton, John, Poems of. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. vii.
    Prose Works of. 2 vols., Philadelphia, 1847.
    Ed. Masson, 3 vols., London, 1890.

  Mirror for Magistrates, The. Ed. Hazlewood, 3 vols., London, 1815.

  Miscellanies, Seven Poetical. Ed. Collier, London, 1867.
    Some in Heliconia.

  More, Henry, Poems of. Ed. Grosart. Privately printed, 1878.

  Mulcaster, Richard, Positions. Ed. Quick, London, 1888.

  Nabbes, Thomas, Works of. In Bullen's Old Plays, New Series, vols. i.
        and ii.

  Nash, Thomas, Works of. Ed. Grosart, 6 vols. Privately printed, 1883-85.
    Ed. M'Kerrow, 4 vols., London, 1904.

  Park, T., Heliconia. 3 vols., London, 1814.

  Peele, George, Works of. Ed. Dyce, London, 1883.

  Percy, W., Coelia, In Grosart's Occasional Issues, vol. iv.

  Puttenham, George, The Art of English Poesy. Ed. Arber, London, 1869.
    Also in G. Smith, Elizabethan Critical Essays.

  Quarles, Francis. Ed. Grosart, 3 vols. Privately printed, 1880-81.

  Raleigh, Sir Walter, History of the World. 6 vols., London, 1820.
    Poems of. In Hannah's Courtly Poets.

  Randolph, Thomas, Works of. Ed. Hazlitt. 2 vols., London, 1875.

  Return from Parnassus, The. Edited by W. Macray, Oxford, 1886.

  Rowlands, Samuel, Works of. Ed. Gosse, 3 vols., Glasgow, 1880
        (Hunterian Club).

  Sackville, Thomas, Lord Buckhurst, Works of. Ed. Sackville-West, London,
        1859.

  Sandys, George, [Sacred] Poetical Works of. Ed. Hooper, 2 vols., London,
        1872.

  Shakespere, William, Works of. Globe edition, London, 1866.
    Doubtful plays. Ed. Warnke and Proescholdt, Halle.
    Also Ed. Hazlitt, London, n.d.

  Sherburne, Sir Edward, Poems of. In Chalmers's Poets, vol. vi.

  Shirley, James, Plays of. Ed. Gifford and Dyce, 6 vols., London, 1833.

  Sidney, Philip, Poetical Works. Ed. Grosart, 2 vols., London, 1873.
    An Apology for Poetry. Ed. Arber, London, 1868.
    Arcadia. Ed. Sommer, London, 1891.

  Simpson. R., The School of Shakespere, 2 vols., London, 1878.

  Smith, T., Chloris. In Grosart's Occasional Issues, vol. iv.

  Southwell, Robert, Poems. Ed. Grosart. Printed for private circulation.

  Spenser, Edmund. Ed. Todd, London, 1853.
    Also Ed. Morris and Hales, London, 1873.
    Also Ed. Grosart, vols. i.-ix. Privately printed, 1882-87.

  Stanley, T., Poems. Partly reprinted, London, 1814.

  Stanyhurst, Richard, The First Four Books of the Æneid. Ed. Arber,
        London, 1880.

  Still, John, Gammer Gurton's Needle. In Hazlitt's Dodsley, vol. iii.

  Stirling, William Alexander, Earl of, Poems of. In Chalmers's British
        Poets, vol. v.

  Suckling, Sir John, Works of. Ed. Hazlitt, 2 vols., London, 1874.

  Surrey, Earl of. See Tottel's Miscellany.
    Also in Chalmers's British Poets, vol. ii.

  Sylvester, Joshua, Works of. Ed. Grosart, 2 vols. Privately printed,
        1880.

  Taylor, Jeremy, Works of. 3 vols., London, 1844.

  Tottel's Miscellany. Ed. Arber, London, 1870.

  Tourneur, Cyril, Works of. Ed. Collins, 2 vols., London, 1878.

  Traherne, Thomas, Poems. Ed. Dobell, London, 1903.

  Turberville, George, Poems of. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. ii.

  Tusser, Thomas. Ed. Mavor, London, 1812.
    Also by English Dialect Society, 1878.

  Udall, N., Ralph Roister Doister. In Hazlitt's Dodsley, vol. iii.

  Vaughan, Henry. Ed. Grosart. Privately printed. 4 vols., 1868-71.
    Also Silex Scintillans. Facsimile of 1st edition. Ed. Clare,
        London, 1885.
    Also 2 vols., Ed. Chambers, London, 1896.

  Walton, Izaak, The Complete Angler. London, 1825.
    Lives. London, 1842.

  Warner, William, Albion's England. In Chalmers's British Poets, vol. iv.

  Watson, Thomas, Poems. Ed. Arber, London, 1870.

  Webbe, William, A Discourse of English Poetry. Ed. Arber, London, 1870.
    Also in G. Smith, Elizabethan Critical Essays.

  Webster, John, Works of. Ed. Dyce, London, 1859.

  Wither, George, Hymns and Songs of the Church. Ed. Farr, London, 1856.
    Hallelujah. Ed. Farr, London, 1857.
    Philarete, in Arber's English Garner, vol. iv.
    Fidelia, in Arber's English Garner, vol. vi.
    Poems generally in Spenser Society's issues.

  Wotton, Sir Henry, Poems of. Professor Dowden has also laid stress upon the harmonious balance of Wordsworth's
nature, his different faculties seeming to interpenetrate one another,
and yield mutual support. He has likewise called attention to the austere
naturalism of which Arnold speaks.

  

"Wordsworth was a great naturalist in literature, but he was also a
great Idealist; and between the naturalist and the idealist in Wordsworth
no opposition existed: each worked with the other, each served the
other.

While Scott, by allying romance with reality, saved romantic fiction
from the extravagances and follies into which it had fallen, Wordsworth's
special work was to open a higher way for naturalism in art by its
union with ideal truth."

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

Criticism has long since ceased to ridicule his Betty Foy, and his Harry Gill,
whose "teeth, they chatter, chatter still."

  

Such malicious sport proved only too easy for Wordsworth's contemporaries,
and still the essential value of his poetry was unimpaired.

  

  
    

The range of poetry is indeed inexhaustible, and even the greatest poets
must suffer some subtraction from universal pre-eminence. Therefore
we may frankly admit the deficiencies of Wordsworth,--that he was lacking
in dramatic force and in the power of characterization; that he was
singularly deficient in humor, and therefore in the saving grace of
self-criticism in the capacity to see himself occasionally in a ridiculous
light; that he has little of the romantic glamor and none of the narrative
energy of Scott; that Shelley's lyrical flights leave him plodding
along the dusty highway; and that Byron's preternatural force makes
his passion seen by contrast pale and ineffectual.

  

  

  

  

All this and more may freely be granted, and yet for his influence upon
English thought, and especially upon the poetic thought of his country,
he must be named after Shakespeare and Milton.

  

  
    

  

  

  The intellectual value of his work will endure;
    for leaving aside much
    valuable doctrine, which from didactic excess fails as poetry, he
has brought into the world a new philosophy of Nature and has emphasised
in a manner distinctively his own the dignity of simple manhood.--Pelham
Edgar.

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
REFERENCES ON WORDSWORTH'S LIFE AND WORKS

  
    

  

  

  

  

  

  
        

  

  
Wordsworth by F. W. H. Myers, in English Men of Letters series.

  

  

  

  

  Toronto: The Macmillan Company of Canada, Limited.

Wordsworth by Walter Raleigh, London: Edward Arnold.

Wordsworth by Rosaline Masson,
in The People's Books series.

London: T. C. & E. C. Jack,

Wordsworthiana edited by William Knight. Toronto: The Macmillan Company
of Canada, Limited.

Essays Chiefly on Poetry by Aubrey de Vere, 2 volumes.

Toronto: The Macmillan Company of Canada, Limited.

Literary
Essays by Richard Holt Hutton. Toronto: The Macmillan Company of
Canada, Limited.

Studies in Literature by Edward
Dowden.

London: Kegan Paul,
Trench, Trubner & Co., Ltd.

Aspects of Poetry by J. S. C. Shairp. Boston:
Houghton Mifflin and Company.

Lives of Great English Writers from Chaucer to Browning by Walter
S. Hinchman and Francis B. Gummere.

Boston: Houghton, Mifflin
and Company.

Great English Poets by Julian Hill.

Philadelphia:
George W. Jacobs & Co.

The Greater English Poets of the Nineteenth Century by William Morton
Payne. New York: Henry Holt and Company.

The Religious Spirit in the Poets by W. Boyd Carpenter, New York:
Thomas Y. Crowell & Co,

Landscape in Poetry from Homer to Tennyson
by Francis T. Palgrave.

Toronto: The Macmillan Company
of Canada, Limited.

A History of Nineteenth Century Literature by George Saintsbury.
Toronto: The Macmillan Company of Canada, Limited.

Personal Traits
of British Authors by E. T. Mason. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons.

The
English Poets edited by T. Humphrey Ward, Vol. iv. Toronto: The Macmillan
Company of Canada, Limited.

Selections from Wordsworth edited by
Matthew Arnold in The Golden Treasury Series. Toronto: The Macmillan
Company of Canada, Limited.

Literary Studies by Walter Bagehot, Vol.
ii.

Prophets of the Century edited by Arthur Rickett.

  Ford, John (1586?-    ?), his Plays, 401-409.

  Fuller, Thomas (1608-1661), 433-438.

  Gammer Gurton's Needle, 55-57.

  Gascoigne, George (1525?-1577), 16-18.

  Gifford, Humphrey (    ?-    ?), his Posy of Gillyflowers, 129.

  Gilpin or Guilpin, Edward (    ?-    ?), his Skialetheia, 155.

  Glapthorne, Henry (    ?-    ?), 417, 418.

  Godolphin, Sidney (1610-1643), 384.

  Goff, Thomas (1591-1629), 427, note.

  Googe, Barnabe (1540?-1594), 18-20.

  Gosson, Stephen (1554-1624), 34.

  Greene, Robert (1560-1592), Life and Plays, 72-74;
    Prose, 224-228.

  Griffin, Bartholomew (    ?-1602?), his Fidessa, 116.

  Grimald or Grimoald, Nicholas (1519?-1562?), 3-8.

  Grove, Matthew (    ?-    ?), his Poems, 130.

  Habington, William (1605-1654), his Castara, 378-380;
    his Queen of Aragon, 425.

  Hakluyt, Richard (1552?-1616), his Voyages, 220-222.

  Hales, John (1584-1656), 444.

  Hall, John (1627-1656), 384.

  Hall, Joseph (1574?-1650), his Satires, 151-153.

  Herbert, George (1593-1633), 371-373.

  Herbert, Lord, of Cherbury (1583-1648), 438-440.

  Heroic Poem, the, 380.

  Herrick, Robert (1591-1674), his Life and Poems, 354-359.

  Heywood, Thomas (    ?-1650?), his Life and Works, 270-284.

  Historical Poems, 131.

  Hobbes, Thomas (1588-1679), his Life, Works, and Style, 348-353.

  Hooker. Richard (1554?-1600), 44-49;
    his Life, 44;
    his Prose Style, 46-48.

  Howell, James (1594?-1666), 441, 442.

  Howell, Thomas (    ?-    ?), his Poems, 130.

  J. C., his Alcilia, 115.

  Jeronimo, and The Spanish Tragedy, 74, 75.

  Jonson, Ben (1573-1637), his Life, Poems, and Plays, 174-184;
    his Prose, 216.

  Kyd, Thomas (1557?-1595?), 74, 75, 81, note.

  Kynaston, Sir Francis (1587-1642), 380, 381.

  Lodge, Thomas (1558?-1625), his Plays, 70;
    his Poems, 109-111;
    his Satires, 145;
    his Prose Pamphlets, 228-230.

  Lovelace, Richard (1618-1658), his Poems, 374-376.

  Lyly, John (1554?-1606?), 36-40, 65-68;
    his Life, 36;
    Euphues and Euphuism, 37-40;
    his Plays, 65-68.

  Lynch, Richard (    ?-    ?), his Diella, 116.

  Manuscript, habit of keeping Poems in, 2.

  Markham, Gervase (1568?-1637), his Poem on The Revenge, 131.

  Marlowe, Christopher (1564-1593), his Life and Plays, 76-79.

  Marmion, Shakerley (1603-1639), his Poems and Plays, 380, 423.

  Marston, John (1575?-1634), his Life and Satires, 153-155;
    his Plays, 195-199.

  Martin Marprelate, sketch of the Controversy and account of the principal
        tracts, 241-252.

  Massinger, Philip (1583-1640), his Plays, 395-401.

  Merry Devil of Edmonton, The, 426.

  Metre, Classical, the fancy for, and its reasons, 22, 25.

  Metre, English, must be scanned by Classical Rules, 14.

  Middleton, Thomas (1570?-1627), his Life and Works, 266-273.

  Milton, John (1608-1674), 316-330;
    his Life and Character, 316, 317;
    Divisions of his Work, 318;
    his early Poems, 318-322;
    his Prose, 322-326;
    his later Poems, 326-329.

  Mirror for Magistrates, The, 11-15.

  Miscellany, Tottel's, 1-10;
    a starting-point, 2;
    its Authorship and Composition, 3;
    Wyatt's and Surrey's Contributions to it, 4-8;
    Grimald and minor authors, 8-9;
    Metrical and Material Characteristics, 9, 10.

  Miscellanies, the early Elizabethan, subsequent to Tottel's, 25-27.

  Miscellanies, Caroline and later, 370.

  Miseries of Enforced Marriage, The, 423.

  More, Henry (1614-1687), his Song of the Soul, 377, 378.

  Nabbes, Thomas (    ?-    ?), his Plays, 422.

  Nash, Thomas (1567-1601), his Plays, 70;
    his Prose Works, 232-235.

  Nero, 425.

  North's Plutarch, 33.

  Oxford, Edward, Earl of (1550-1604), his Poems, 127-128.

  Pearson, Bishop (1613-1686), 440.

  Peele, George (1558?-1597), his Life and Plays, 70-72.

  Percy, William (1575-1648), his Coelia, 111.

  Pharonnida, 381.

  Plays, early nondescript, 62.

  Poetry, 95-96.

  Prose, the Beginnings of Modern English, 28-30.

  Prosody, Weakness of the Early Elizabethans in, 9.

  Pseudo-Shakesperian Plays, 424, 425.

  Puttenham, George (1532?-1590), 34.

  Quarles, Francis (1592-1644), 376, 377.

  Raleigh, Sir Walter (1552?-1618), his Verse, 125-127;
    his Prose, 212-215.

  Ralph Roister Doister, 54, 55.

  Randolph, Thomas (1605-1635), his Poems, 382;
    his Plays, 413-415.

  Return from Parnassus, The, 81, 426.

  Rowlands, Samuel (1570?-1630?), 238, 240.

  Rowley, Samuel (    ?-    ?), 423.

  Rowley, William (1585?-1642?), his Plays, 422.

  Sackville, Thomas, Lord Buckhurst (1536-1608), his Life and Works, 11-15;
    the Induction and Complaint of Buckingham, 12-15;
    Gorboduc, 57-60.

  Sanderson, Bishop (1587-1663), 440.

  Sandys, George (1578-1644), 373.

  Satirists, the Elizabethan, 144-156.

  Second Maiden's Tragedy, The, 425.

  Senecan Drama, the, 58-61.

  Shakespere, William (1564-1616), 157-173;
    his Life, 158;
    his Works and their Reputation, 159, 160;
    their divisions, 160, 161 (1573-1636);
    the Early Poems, 161;
    the Sonnets, 161-164;
    the Plays, 164-173;
    the "Doubtful" Plays, 424-425.

  Sherburne, Sir Edward (1618-1702), his Poems, 383.

  Shirley, Henry (    ?-1627), 409, note.

  Shirley, James (1596-1666), his Plays, 449-413.

  Sidney, Sir Philip (1554-1586), his Prose, 40-43;
    his Prose style, 42;
    his Verse, 100-105.

  Smith, William (1546?-1618?), his Chloris, 116.

  Songs, Miscellaneous, from the Dramatists and Madrigal Writers, 121-125,
        312-314.

  Sonneteers, the Elizabethan, 97.

  Southwell, Robert (1561 ?-1595), his Poems, 119.

  Spenser, Edmund (1552?-1599), 82-96;
    his Life, 83-85;
    The Shepherd's Calendar, 86;
    the Minor Poems, 87;
    The Faërie Queene, 88-93;
    the Spenserian Stanza, 90;
    Spenser's Language, 91;
    his Comparative Rank in English Poetry, 93-96.

  Stanley, Thomas (1625-1678), 383, 384.

  Stanyhurst, Richard (1547-1618), 23-25.

  Still, John (1543-1608), his Gammer Gurton's Needle, 55-57.

  Stirling, Sir William Alexander, Earl of (1567?-1640), 308-311.

  Suckling, Sir John (1609-1642), his Poems, 374-376;
    his Plays, 420-422.

  Surrey, Lord Henry Howard, Earl of (1517?-1547), 6-8.

  Sylvester, Joshua (1563-1618), his Du Bartas, etc., 289-291.

  Taylor, Jeremy (1613-1667), 330-336;
    his Life, 330, 331;
    his Works and Style, 331-336.

  Theophila, 381. 

  Frankfurt. 1857.

This is one of the numerous imitations of the celebrated "Dorfgeschichten,"
by Berthold Auerbach. The latter introduced, in a time of literary poverty,
a wide range of new subjects for epical treatment,--the life of German
peasants, with their simple, healthy, vigorous natures undepraved by
a spurious civilization. In painting these sinewy figures, full of
a character of their own, he was very felicitous, had an enormous
success, and drew a host of less gifted followers after him.

  Version, the Authorised, 215-218.

  Walton, Izaak (1593-1683), 441.

  Warner, William (1558-1649), 122-134.

  Watson, Thomas (1557?-1592), 105-107.

  Webbe, William (    ?-    ?), 34.

  Webster, John (1580?-1625?), his Life and Works, 273-279.

  Willoughby's Avisa, 110, 111.

  Wither, George (1588-1667), Life and Poems, 302-306.

  Wit's Recreations, 370.

  Wyatt, Sir Thomas (1503?-1542), 4-6.

  Yorkshire Tragedy, The, 424.

  Zepheria, 112.

THE END

Printed by R. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, Edinburgh.

