It was probably because she had ceased to love him that she could look forward with a kind
of ghastly composure to seeing him again. She had stipulated, of course, that the wedding should
be put off, but she had named no other condition beyond asking for two days to herself--two
days during which he was not even to write. She wished to shut herself in with her misery,
to accustom herself to it as she had accustomed herself to happiness. But actual seclusion
was impossible: the subtle reactions of life almost at once began to break down her defences.
She could no more have her wretchedness to herself than any other emotion: all the lives about
her were so many unconscious factors in her sensations. She tried to concentrate herself on
the thought as to how she could best help poor Denis; for love, in ebbing, had laid bare an
unsuspected depth of pity. But she found it more and more difficult to consider his situation
in the abstract light of right and wrong. Open expiation still seemed to her the only possible
way of healing; but she tried vainly to think of Mrs. Peyton as taking such a view. Yet Mrs.
Peyton ought at least to know what had happened: was it not, in the last resort, she who should
pronounce on her son's course? For a moment Kate was fascinated by this evasion of responsibility;
she had nearly decided to tell Denis that he must begin by confessing everything to his mother.
But almost at once she began to shrink from the consequences. There was nothing she so dreaded
for him as that any one should take a light view of his act: should turn its irremediableness
into an excuse. And this, she foresaw, was what Mrs. Peyton would do. The first burst of misery
over, she would envelop the whole situation in a mist of expediency. Brought to the bar of
Kate's judgment, she at once revealed herself incapable of higher action.

Kate's conception of her was still under arraignment when the actual Mrs. Peyton fluttered
in. It was the afternoon of the second day, as the girl phrased it in the dismal re-creation
of her universe. She had been thinking so hard of Mrs. Peyton that the lady's silvery insubstantial
presence seemed hardly more than a projection of the thought; but as Kate collected herself,
and regained contact with the outer world, her preoccupation yielded to surprise. It was unusual
for Mrs. Peyton to pay visits. For years she had remained enthroned in a semi-invalidism which
prohibited effort while it did not preclude diversion; and the girl at once divined a special
purpose in her coming.

Mrs. Peyton's traditions would not have permitted any direct method of attack; and Kate had
to sit through the usual prelude of ejaculation and anecdote. Presently, however, the elder
lady's voice gathered significance, and laying her hand on Kate's she murmured: "I have come
to talk to you of this sad affair."

Kate began to tremble. Was it possible that Denis had after all spoken? A rising hope checked
her utterance, and she saw in a flash that it still lay with him to regain his hold on her.
But Mrs. Peyton went on delicately: "It has been a great shock to my poor boy. To be brought
in contact with Arthur's past was in itself inexpressibly painful; but this last dreadful business--that
woman's wicked act--"

"Wicked?" Kate exclaimed.

Mrs. Peyton's gentle stare reproved her. "Surely religion teaches us that suicide is a sin?
And to murder her child! I ought not to speak to you of such things, my dear. No one has ever
mentioned anything so dreadful in my presence: my dear husband used to screen me so carefully
from the painful side of life. Where there is so much that is beautiful to dwell upon, we should
try to ignore the existence of such horrors. But nowadays everything is in the papers; and
Denis told me he thought it better that you should hear the news first from him."

Kate nodded without speaking.

"He felt how dreadful it was to have to tell you. But I tell him he takes a morbid view of
the case. Of course one is shocked at the woman's crime--but, if one looks a little deeper,
how can one help seeing that it may have been designed as the means of rescuing that poor child
from a life of vice and misery? That is the view I want Denis to take: I want him to see how
all the difficulties of life disappear when one has learned to look for a divine purpose in
human sufferings."

Mrs. Peyton rested a moment on this period, as an experienced climber pauses to be overtaken
by a less agile companion; but presently she became aware that Kate was still far below her,
and perhaps needed a stronger incentive to the ascent.

"My dear child," she said adroitly, "I said just now that I was sorry you had been obliged
to hear of this sad affair; but after all it is only you who can avert its consequences."

Kate drew an eager breath. "Its consequences?" she faltered.

Mrs. Peyton's voice dropped solemnly. "Denis has told me everything," she said.

"Everything?"

"That you insist on putting off the marriage. Oh, my dear, I do implore you to reconsider that!"

Kate sank back with the sense of having passed again into a region of leaden shadow. "Is that
all he told you?"

Mrs. Peyton gazed at her with arch raillery. "All? Isn't it everything--to him?"

"Did he give you my reason, I mean?"

"He said you felt that, after this shocking tragedy, there ought, in decency, to be a delay;
and I quite understand the feeling. It does seem too unfortunate that the woman should have
chosen this particular time! But you will find as you grow older that life is full of such
sad contrasts."

Kate felt herself slowly petrifying under the warm drip of Mrs. Peyton's platitudes.

"It seems to me," the elder lady continued, "that there is only one point from which we ought
to consider the question--and that is, its effect on Denis. But for that we ought to refuse
to know anything about it. But it has made my boy so unhappy. The law-suit was a cruel ordeal
to him--the dreadful notoriety, the revelation of poor Arthur's infirmities. Denis is as sensitive
as a woman; it is his unusual refinement of feeling that makes him so worthy of being loved
by you. But such sensitiveness may be carried to excess. He ought not to let this unhappy incident
prey on him: it shows a lack of trust in the divine ordering of things. That is what troubles
me: his faith in life has been shaken. And--you must forgive me, dear child--you will forgive
me, I know--but I can't help blaming you a little--"

Mrs. Peyton's accent converted the accusation into a caress, which prolonged itself in a tremulous
pressure of Kate's hand.

The girl gazed at her blankly. "You blame me--?"

"Don't be offended, my child. I only fear that your excessive sympathy with Denis, your own
delicacy of feeling, may have led you to encourage his morbid ideas. He tells me you were very
much shocked--as you naturally would be--as any girl must be--I would not have you otherwise,
dear Kate! It is beautiful that you should both feel so; most beautiful; but you know religion
teaches us not to yield too much to our grief. Let the dead bury their dead; the living owe
themselves to each other. And what had this wretched woman to do with either of you? It is
a misfortune for Denis to have been connected in any way with a man of Arthur Peyton's character;
but after all, poor Arthur did all he could to atone for the disgrace he brought on us, by
making Denis his heir--and I am sure I have no wish to question the decrees of Providence."
Mrs. Peyton paused again, and then softly absorbed both of Kate's hands. "For my part," she
continued, "I see in it another instance of the beautiful ordering of events. Just after dear
Denis's inheritance has removed the last obstacle to your marriage, this sad incident comes
to show how desperately he needs you, how cruel it would be to ask him to defer his happiness."

She broke off, shaken out of her habitual placidity by the abrupt withdrawal of the girl's
hands. Kate sat inertly staring, but no answer rose to her lips.

At length Mrs. Peyton resumed, gathering her draperies about her with a tentative hint of leave-taking:
"I may go home and tell him that you will not put off the wedding?"

Kate was still silent, and her visitor looked at her with the mild surprise of an advocate
unaccustomed to plead in vain.

"If your silence means refusal, my dear, I think you ought to realize the responsibility you
assume." Mrs. Peyton's voice had acquired an edge of righteous asperity. "If Denis has a fault
it is that he is too gentle, too yielding, too readily influenced by those he cares for. Your
influence is paramount with him now--but if you turn from him just when he needs your help,
who can say what the result will be?"

The argument, though impressively delivered, was hardly of a nature to carry conviction to
its hearer; but it was perhaps for that very reason that she suddenly and unexpectedly replied
to it by sinking back into her seat with a burst of tears. To Mrs. Peyton, however, tears were
the signal of surrender, and, at Kate's side in an instant she hastened to temper her triumph
with magnanimity.

"Don't think I don't feel with you; but we must both forget ourselves for our boy's sake. I
told him I should come back with your promise."

The arm she had slipped about Kate's shoulder fell back with the girl's start. Kate had seen
in a flash what capital would be made of her emotion.

"No, no, you misunderstand me. I can make no promise," she declared.

The older lady sat a moment irresolute; then she restored her arm to the shoulder from which
it had been so abruptly displaced.

"My dear child," she said, in a tone of tender confidence, "if I have misunderstood you, ought
you not to enlighten me? You asked me just now if Denis had given me your reason for this strange
postponement. He gave me one reason, but it seems hardly sufficient to explain your conduct.
If there is any other,--and I know you well enough to feel sure there is,--will you not trust
me with it? If my boy has been unhappy enough to displease you, will you not give his mother
the chance to plead his cause? Remember, no one should be condemned unheard. As Denis's mother,
I have the right to ask for your reason."

"My reason? My reason?" Kate stammered, panting with the exhaustion of the struggle. Oh, if
only Mrs. Peyton would release her! "If you have the right to know it, why doesn't he tell
you?" she cried.

Mrs. Peyton stood up, quivering. "I will go home and ask him," she said. "I will tell him he
had your permission to speak."

She moved toward the door, with the nervous haste of a person unaccustomed to decisive action.
But Kate sprang before her.

"No, no; don't ask him! I implore you not to ask him," she cried.

Mrs. Peyton turned on her with sudden authority of voice and gesture. "Do I understand you?"
she said. "You admit that you have a reason for putting off your marriage, and yet you forbid
me--me, Denis's mother--to ask him what it is? My poor child, I needn't ask, for I know already.
If he has offended you, and you refuse him the chance to defend himself, I needn't look farther
for your reason: it is simply that you have ceased to love him."

Kate fell back from the door which she had instinctively barricaded.

"Perhaps that is it," she murmured, letting Mrs. Peyton pass.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Orme's returning carriage-wheels crossed Mrs. Peyton's indignant flight; and an hour later
Kate, in the bland candle-light of the dinner-hour, sat listening with practised fortitude
to her father's comments on the venison.

She had wondered, as she awaited him in the drawing-room, if he would notice any change in
her appearance. It seemed to her that the flagellation of her thoughts must have left visible
traces. But Mr. Orme was not a man of subtle perceptions, save where his personal comfort was
affected: though his egoism was clothed in the finest feelers, he did not suspect a similar
surface in others. His daughter, as part of himself, came within the normal range of his solicitude;
but she was an outlying region, a subject province; and Mr. Orme's was a highly centralized polity.

News of the painful incident--he often used Mrs. Peyton's vocabulary--had reached him at his
club, and to some extent disturbed the assimilation of a carefully ordered breakfast; but since
then two days had passed, and it did not take Mr. Orme forty-eight hours to resign himself
to the misfortunes of others. It was all very nasty, of course, and he wished to heaven it
hadn't happened to any one about to be connected with him; but he viewed it with the transient
annoyance of a gentleman who has been splashed by the mud of a fatal runaway.

Mr. Orme affected, under such circumstances, a bluff and hearty stoicism as remote as possible
from Mrs. Peyton's deprecating evasion of facts. It was a bad business; he was sorry Kate should
have been mixed up with it; but she would be married soon now, and then she would see that
life wasn't exactly a Sunday-school story. Everybody was exposed to such disagreeable accidents:
he remembered a case in their own family--oh, a distant cousin whom Kate wouldn't have heard
of--a poor fellow who had got entangled with just such a woman, and having (most properly)
been sent packing by his father, had justified the latter's course by promptly forging his
name--a very nasty affair altogether; but luckily the scandal had been hushed up, the woman
bought off, and the prodigal, after a season of probation, safely married to a nice girl with
a good income, who was told by the family that the doctors recommended his settling in California.

Luckily the scandal was hushed up: the phrase blazed out against the dark background of Kate's
misery. That was doubtless what most people felt--the words represented the consensus of respectable
opinion. The best way of repairing a fault was to hide it: to tear up the floor and bury the
victim at night. Above all, no coroner and no autopsy!

She began to feel a strange interest in her distant cousin. "And his wife--did she know what
he had done?"

Mr. Orme stared. His moral pointed, he had returned to the contemplation of his own affairs.

"His wife? Oh, of course not. The secret has been most admirably kept; but her property was
put in trust, so she's quite safe with him."

Her property! Kate wondered if her faith in her husband had also been put in trust, if her
sensibilities had been protected from his possible inroads.

"Do you think it quite fair to have deceived her in that way?"

Mr. Orme gave her a puzzled glance: he had no taste for the by-paths of ethical conjecture.

"His people wanted to give the poor fellow another chance; they did the best they could for him."

"And--he has done nothing dishonourable since?"

"Not that I know of: the last I heard was that they had a little boy, and that he was quite
happy. At that distance he's not likely to bother us, at all events."

