In America the people appoints the legislative and the executive power, and furnishes the jurors
who punish all offences against the laws. The American institutions are democratic, not only
in their principle but in all their consequences; and the people elects its representatives
directly, and for the most part annually, in order to ensure their dependence. The people is
therefore the real directing power; and although the form of government is representative,
it is evident that the opinions, the prejudices, the interests, and even the passions of the
community are hindered by no durable obstacles from exercising a perpetual influence on society.
In the United States the majority governs in the name of the people, as is the case in all
the countries in which the people is supreme. The majority is principally composed of peaceful
citizens who, either by inclination or by interest, are sincerely desirous of the welfare of
their country. But they are surrounded by the incessant agitation of parties, which attempt
to gain their co-operation and to avail themselves of their support.

Chapter X: Parties In The United States

Chapter Summary

Great distinction to be made between parties--Parties which are to each other as rival nations--Parties
properly so called--Difference between great and small parties--Epochs which produce them--Their
characteristics--America has had great parties--They are extinct--Federalists--Republicans--Defeat
of the Federalists--Difficulty of creating parties in the United States--What is done with
this intention--Aristocratic or democratic character to be met with in all parties--Struggle
of General Jackson against the Bank.

Parties In The United States

A great distinction must be made between parties. Some countries are so large that the different
populations which inhabit them have contradictory interests, although they are the subjects
of the same Government, and they may thence be in a perpetual state of opposition. In this
case the different fractions of the people may more properly be considered as distinct nations
than as mere parties; and if a civil war breaks out, the struggle is carried on by rival peoples
rather than by factions in the State.

But when the citizens entertain different opinions upon subjects which affect the whole country
alike, such, for instance, as the principles upon which the government is to be conducted,
then distinctions arise which may correctly be styled parties. Parties are a necessary evil
in free governments; but they have not at all times the same character and the same propensities.

At certain periods a nation may be oppressed by such insupportable evils as to conceive the
design of effecting a total change in its political constitution; at other times the mischief
lies still deeper, and the existence of society itself is endangered. Such are the times of
great revolutions and of great parties. But between these epochs of misery and of confusion
there are periods during which human society seems to rest, and mankind to make a pause. This
pause is, indeed, only apparent, for time does not stop its course for nations any more than
for men; they are all advancing towards a goal with which they are unacquainted; and we only
imagine them to be stationary when their progress escapes our observation, as men who are going
at a foot-pace seem to be standing still to those who run.

But however this may be, there are certain epochs at which the changes that take place in the
social and political constitution of nations are so slow and so insensible that men imagine
their present condition to be a final state; and the human mind, believing itself to be firmly
based upon certain foundations, does not extend its researches beyond the horizon which it
descries. These are the times of small parties and of intrigue.

The political parties which I style great are those which cling to principles more than to
their consequences; to general, and not to especial cases; to ideas, and not to men. These
parties are usually distinguished by a nobler character, by more generous passions, more genuine
convictions, and a more bold and open conduct than the others. In them private interest, which
always plays the chief part in political passions, is more studiously veiled under the pretext
of the public good; and it may even be sometimes concealed from the eyes of the very persons
whom it excites and impels.

Minor parties are, on the other hand, generally deficient in political faith. As they are not
sustained or dignified by a lofty purpose, they ostensibly display the egotism of their character
in their actions. They glow with a factitious zeal; their language is vehement, but their conduct
is timid and irresolute. The means they employ are as wretched as the end at which they aim.
Hence it arises that when a calm state of things succeeds a violent revolution, the leaders
of society seem suddenly to disappear, and the powers of the human mind to lie concealed. Society
is convulsed by great parties, by minor ones it is agitated; it is torn by the former, by the
latter it is degraded; and if these sometimes save it by a salutary perturbation, those invariably
disturb it to no good end.

America has already lost the great parties which once divided the nation; and if her happiness
is considerably increased, her morality has suffered by their extinction. When the War of Independence
was terminated, and the foundations of the new Government were to be laid down, the nation
was divided between two opinions--two opinions which are as old as the world, and which are
perpetually to be met with under all the forms and all the names which have ever obtained in
free communities--the one tending to limit, the other to extend indefinitely, the power of
the people. The conflict of these two opinions never assumed that degree of violence in America
which it has frequently displayed elsewhere. Both parties of the Americans were, in fact, agreed
upon the most essential points; and neither of them had to destroy a traditionary constitution,
or to overthrow the structure of society, in order to ensure its own triumph. In neither of
them, consequently, were a great number of private interests affected by success or by defeat;
but moral principles of a high order, such as the love of equality and of independence, were
concerned in the struggle, and they sufficed to kindle violent passions.

The party which desired to limit the power of the people endeavored to apply its doctrines
more especially to the Constitution of the Union, whence it derived its name of Federal. The
other party, which affected to be more exclusively attached to the cause of liberty, took that
of Republican. America is a land of democracy, and the Federalists were always in a minority;
but they reckoned on their side almost all the great men who had been called forth by the War
of Independence, and their moral influence was very considerable. Their cause was, moreover,
favored by circumstances. The ruin of the Confederation had impressed the people with a dread
of anarchy, and the Federalists did not fail to profit by this transient disposition of the
multitude. For ten or twelve years they were at the head of affairs, and they were able to
apply some, though not all, of their principles; for the hostile current was becoming from
day to day too violent to be checked or stemmed. In 1801 the Republicans got possession of
the Government; Thomas Jefferson was named President; and he increased the influence of their
party by the weight of his celebrity, the greatness of his talents, and the immense extent
of his popularity.

The means by which the Federalists had maintained their position were artificial, and their
resources were temporary; it was by the virtues or the talents of their leaders that they had
risen to power. When the Republicans attained to that lofty station, their opponents were overwhelmed
by utter defeat. An immense majority declared itself against the retiring party, and the Federalists
found themselves in so small a minority that they at once despaired of their future success.
From that moment the Republican or Democratic party *a has proceeded from conquest to conquest,
until it has acquired absolute supremacy in the country. The Federalists, perceiving that they
were vanquished without resource, and isolated in the midst of the nation, fell into two divisions,
of which one joined the victorious Republicans, and the other abandoned its rallying-point
and its name. Many years have already elapsed since they ceased to exist as a party.

[Footnote a: [It is scarcely necessary to remark that in more recent times the signification
of these terms has changed. The Republicans are the representatives of the old Federalists,
and the Democrats of the old Republicans.--Trans. Note (1861).]] The accession of the Federalists
to power was, in my opinion, one of the most fortunate incidents which accompanied the formation
of the great American Union; they resisted the inevitable propensities of their age and of
the country. But whether their theories were good or bad, they had the effect of being inapplicable,
as a system, to the society which they professed to govern, and that which occurred under the
auspices of Jefferson must therefore have taken place sooner or later. But their Government
gave the new republic time to acquire a certain stability, and afterwards to support the rapid
growth of the very doctrines which they had combated. A considerable number of their principles
were in point of fact embodied in the political creed of their opponents; and the Federal Constitution
which subsists at the present day is a lasting monument of their patriotism and their wisdom.

Great political parties are not, then, to be met with in the United States at the present time.
Parties, indeed, may be found which threaten the future tranquillity of the Union; but there
are none which seem to contest the present form of Government or the present course of society.
The parties by which the Union is menaced do not rest upon abstract principles, but upon temporal
interests. These interests, disseminated in the provinces of so vast an empire, may be said
to constitute rival nations rather than parties. Thus, upon a recent occasion, the North contended
for the system of commercial prohibition, and the South took up arms in favor of free trade,
simply because the North is a manufacturing and the South an agricultural district; and that
the restrictive system which was profitable to the one was prejudicial to the other. *b

[Footnote b: [The divisions of North and South have since acquired a far greater degree of
intensity, and the South, though conquered, still presents a formidable spirit of opposition
to Northern government.--Translator's Note, 1875.]]

In the absence of great parties, the United States abound with lesser controversies; and public
opinion is divided into a thousand minute shades of difference upon questions of very little
moment. The pains which are taken to create parties are inconceivable, and at the present day
it is no easy task. In the United States there is no religious animosity, because all religion
is respected, and no sect is predominant; there is no jealousy of rank, because the people
is everything, and none can contest its authority; lastly, there is no public indigence to
supply the means of agitation, because the physical position of the country opens so wide a
field to industry that man is able to accomplish the most surprising undertakings with his
own native resources. Nevertheless, ambitious men are interested in the creation of parties,
since it is difficult to eject a person from authority upon the mere ground that his place
is coveted by others. The skill of the actors in the political world lies therefore in the
art of creating parties. A political aspirant in the United States begins by discriminating
his own interest, and by calculating upon those interests which may be collected around and
amalgamated with it; he then contrives to discover some doctrine or some principle which may
suit the purposes of this new association, and which he adopts in order to bring forward his
party and to secure his popularity; just as the imprimatur of a King was in former days incorporated
with the volume which it authorized, but to which it nowise belonged. When these preliminaries
are terminated, the new party is ushered into the political world.

All the domestic controversies of the Americans at first appear to a stranger to be so incomprehensible
and so puerile that he is at a loss whether to pity a people which takes such arrant trifles
in good earnest, or to envy the happiness which enables it to discuss them. But when he comes
to study the secret propensities which govern the factions of America, he easily perceives
that the greater part of them are more or less connected with one or the other of those two
divisions which have always existed in free communities. The deeper we penetrate into the working
of these parties, the more do we perceive that the object of the one is to limit, and that
of the other to extend, the popular authority. I do not assert that the ostensible end, or
even that the secret aim, of American parties is to promote the rule of aristocracy or democracy
in the country; but I affirm that aristocratic or democratic passions may easily be detected
at the bottom of all parties, and that, although they escape a superficial observation, they
are the main point and the very soul of every faction in the United States.

To quote a recent example. When the President attacked the Bank, the country was excited and
parties were formed; the well-informed classes rallied round the Bank, the common people round
the President. But it must not be imagined that the people had formed a rational opinion upon
a question which offers so many difficulties to the most experienced statesmen. The Bank is
a great establishment which enjoys an independent existence, and the people, accustomed to
make and unmake whatsoever it pleases, is startled to meet with this obstacle to its authority.
In the midst of the perpetual fluctuation of society the community is irritated by so permanent
an institution, and is led to attack it in order to see whether it can be shaken and controlled,
like all the other institutions of the country.

Remains Of The Aristocratic Party In The United States

Secret opposition of wealthy individuals to democracy--Their retirement--Their taste for exclusive
pleasures and for luxury at home--Their simplicity abroad--Their affected condescension towards
the people.

It sometimes happens in a people amongst which various opinions prevail that the balance of
the several parties is lost, and one of them obtains an irresistible preponderance, overpowers
all obstacles, harasses its opponents, and appropriates all the resources of society to its
own purposes. The vanquished citizens despair of success and they conceal their dissatisfaction
in silence and in general apathy. The nation seems to be governed by a single principle, and
the prevailing party assumes the credit of having restored peace and unanimity to the country.
But this apparent unanimity is merely a cloak to alarming dissensions and perpetual opposition.

This is precisely what occurred in America; when the democratic party got the upper hand, it
took exclusive possession of the conduct of affairs, and from that time the laws and the customs
of society have been adapted to its caprices.

Mark, for instance, that opulent citizen, who is as anxious as a Jew of the Middle Ages to
conceal his wealth. His dress is plain, his demeanor unassuming; but the interior of his dwelling
glitters with luxury, and none but a few chosen guests whom he haughtily styles his equals
are allowed to penetrate into this sanctuary. No European noble is more exclusive in his pleasures,
or more jealous of the smallest advantages which his privileged station confers upon him. But
the very same individual crosses the city to reach a dark counting-house in the centre of traffic,
where every one may accost him who pleases. If he meets his cobbler upon the way, they stop
and converse; the two citizens discuss the affairs of the State in which they have an equal
interest, and they shake hands before they part.

The two chief weapons which parties use in order to ensure success are the public press and
the formation of associations.

Chapter XI: Liberty Of The Press In The United States

Chapter Summary

Difficulty of restraining the liberty of the press--Particular reasons which some nations have
to cherish this liberty--The liberty of the press a necessary consequence of the sovereignty
of the people as it is understood in America--Violent language of the periodical press in the
United States--Propensities of the periodical press--Illustrated by the United States--Opinion
of the Americans upon the repression of the abuse of the liberty of the press by judicial prosecutions--Reasons
for which the press is less powerful in America than in France.

Liberty Of The Press In The United States

The influence of the liberty of the press does not affect political opinions alone, but it
extends to all the opinions of men, and it modifies customs as well as laws. In another part
of this work I shall attempt to determinate the degree of influence which the liberty of the
press has exercised upon civil society in the United States, and to point out the direction
which it has given to the ideas, as well as the tone which it has imparted to the character
and the feelings, of the Anglo-Americans, but at present I purpose simply to examine the effects
produced by the liberty of the press in the political world.

I confess that I do not entertain that firm and complete attachment to the liberty of the press
which things that are supremely good in their very nature are wont to excite in the mind; and
I approve of it more from a recollection of the evils it prevents than from a consideration
of the advantages it ensures.

