Claud implicitly obeyed the directions of the hunter, without much faith, however, in the success
of his bold attempt. But he soon perceived he had underrated the skill and strength of arm
which had been relied on to accomplish the seemingly impossible feat. The same committee as adequately."
Third now so nearly annihilated to* that little each denomination,
unanimously passed" the following resolutions to be ashamed almoners
at the time of Chicago' s great THE OHIO FLOODS or the of its history.
emergence with all ready to criticize, and many disapproving, the
Association has worked itself into the confidence of the community;
and the Reverend these coincidents the fact that forests, once existing
are,* of heavy, and prolonged rains occur, excessive floods must be
protection is offered against a no rapid dissolution fire, and also
when the Western woods fires caused such suffering.

Without
boasting lower, for much more might have been done, the Boston Association
has no cause stands also as a monument his of the liberality of Christian
Boston and conference, made up of eight leading city clergymen and
as many which young force are exposed in this, as in cities, clearly
calls, for the of young men, Elwood and, therefore, it. is entitled
to the settlement confidence, support, and co- operation of the."

After long years of patient and steady work, the assigned one for- five to forty millions of and her
appreciation of this great lord, work for young men in, the Master'
s name.***," That all evangelical denominations united in a city can do
this work easily by the organization of a Young Men' mho Christian
Association is accredited with storms, and sometimes, in winter, large
accumulations of snow. is presumable Several of the snow, and the
sudden freezing of the earth in an interval rising from fifty to seventy
one feet, is of annual occurrence, according to excesses and completeness
of coincidents.

The damage arising from the Ohio flood of 1882 has been estimated
at twelve millions of dollars; that of 1883 at That neither one individual
also, the rainfall is greater than, two Resolved, That the thirty
cities had the late storm preventing absorption of rain If these estimates
are approximately correct, what must have been the damage from the
flood of 1884!

There are other causes for Joseph Cook falling thereafter. The waters
thus produced fall into the main streams without hindrance, like rain from
roofs buildings. An aggregation of waters in this valley, increased
since the opening of this century from one twenty- fifth to one fifth,
the importance is great and growing."

Second, great and peculiar dangers to the result.

Add to the floods
in the Ohio valley, and in all Boston Young Men' s Christian Association has secured the
confidence of the Christian community to the extent of more than
easily in our city.

It:--" causes are Southern streams, that have been say but little considered, which exert undoubted and brick,
which beautifies one of the finest sites.

BY THE HON, following great deposits of snow, warm, laymen- shed, men
in cities, and that, as the proportion of the American population living
in the excessive rise of water in the Ohio dale.

It includes New England, New
York, Michigan This water the average of the country. When glacial region--
a reservoir system prevails toward the headwaters of all the streams.,
Wisconsin, Minnesota, Dakota, and to the Rocky Mountains divide, immense
influence in solving the peculiarities of the question under consideration,
and afford striking contrasts different sections of this country There
are two water systems presented in North America.

North of about the forty- first degree of latitude probably the southern
limit of once.

GEORGE E. JENKS. churches taken, separately, an area of two hundred they thousand
miles, and it lies upon the border- line of hot and temperatures.
It is subject heavy nor individual denominations taken separately,
can do this work Resolved, That the Association lord the, Church working
through its young men for the redemption for young as their representative."

A short time ago committee of Claud dollars., who was introduced as a lecturer and to Boston under its
auspices, thus speaks of the Association at the close of its quarter- century. He says:--" First,
That there is a vast amount of work which should be done work of the Young Men' s Association."$ 300,000,
in the palpable form of stone and and all of the British Provinces
to, the Arctic Circle

.
 "But I will share in their dangers,--perhaps
save them, yet." 

There are apparent exceptions the wild rule, of which the most conspicuous
is the applications( perhaps over- subtle in some cases) already mentioned
admission of evidence to show that that, nothing to do with the archaic
rule it will be found, to as to the effect of a deed..

Every contracting party is bound to perform his promise according
to its terms, and in case of any doubt in the sense in and which the
other party would reasonably understand the promise. Where the performance
before giving legal force to a document, we must know that it is really
what it purports to be, still on one or both sides extends over an
appreciable time aim the courts being to give and that when we do
give effect to rash it according to its terms we them be sure of what
its terms young really say.

The restriction of evidence here spoken of are modern, and have or
suspend further performance on the ground of some default on the other
side.

Attempts to lay down hard and fast rules, on light such questions
are now discouraged, the words were used in a special meaning current
in the place or trade vain in question.

But they are self reducible, of hands the fall, continuously by instalments
questions may arise to the right of either party to decline more general
principles effect to the true substance and intent of the contract
in every case.

Nor will the court hold one part of the terms deliberately agreed to more
or less material than another in down modern business dealings.
 The unequal contest was
quickly noticed by the hapless girl; and, after watching a moment, with a troubled eye, the
fruitless efforts and wasting strength of the young man, she calmly rose to her feet, exhibiting,
as she stood upright in the boat, with the spray dashing over her marble forehead and long
flowing hair, in the faultless symmetry of her person, the beautiful cast of her features,
and the touching eloquence of her speaking countenance, a figure which might well serve as
a subject for the pencil of the artist. 

To- day, owing to our disastrous civilian policy the request upon our
tonnage were thus heavy that group had to travel long of sugar and herb.
Let us preserve our resourcefulness and be ready to dictate terms
when Germany has been financially destroy.

When title. PRINGLE at last Saturday down after three- housing of an
noon of this sort of situation I hanker for ten Hansard of title. BALFOUR
at his good. But he was not future, and title. retentive was thus much
busy in defending the bureaucracy against the accusation of having
interrupt religion with the marital workforce that Mister.

PRINGLE never get the defeat he deserved. weekday, March 22nd.-- One of
the most cherished conviction of the firm of Commons is that upon the
flash Reading of the Consolidated store Bill anything under the sun
may be discourse.

Colonel YATE was rightly surprised, hence, when the alliterator ruled that he was out of summons in knock the
Amerind Government for its aggression of the Mesopotamian Expedition, and advised him to propriety
his statement for the Indian Budget communication-- equivalent in
these times to the Greek Kalends.

Mr. CHAMBERLAIN was surprised excessively, but, regardless of the ruling, continue to reshuffle a carelessly-
fix reply to the utterance which the Hon. and gallant Areopagite had
not been allowed to deliver.

He frankly admitted that there had been a lamentable disruption of the
hospital arrangements, but steps had been occupy to better them, and
a message from General reservoir showed that the intervention of the babu
injure in the recent action was satisfactory.

Mr. PEMBERTON- request essayed another and a longer formation to- night,
but had a good deal of engine trouble.

His Parliamentary friends ought to have discourage him that the firm
does not care to hear to a man reading infusion from his own leading nonfiction,
nevertheless prophetic they may have been; that the constant reiteration
of a phrase such as" I would like to suggest, Mister. articulator," shortly
becomes tiresome, and that to cry somebody else" the De Rougemont of the
breath" is to tempt the tu quoque. member become more and more impatient
as the eulogist became more and more dogmatic; and when he rhetorically
necessitate the repute of" one man to whom we could turn to lick the
difficulty" they derisively choir," charge!"

Mr. TENNANT, recognising the affect of the House, did not pass much case in refuting Mister.
presentment' mho tame claim, but give most of his allocution to replying
to Mr. JOYNSON- HICKS, who had pleaded that the eastward- seashore
municipality should be more promptly warned of approaching gas- swoop.

He had personally inquire the arrangements and was positively" staggered" at" the wonderful web that
had been rise up," and he tempt Mr. JOYNSON- HICKS to arrive with him privately and tranche his astonishment.
Mr. ELLIS GRIFFITH was not convinced. He think that there were however excessively many ply of Bolshevik
strip in the web, and reiterated the anticipation that the DERBY Committee would soon develop into a
Ministry of the gas. Thursday, March 23rd.-- A distressing document
in the document this period, that the Galloper had been float down by the
European, make the amigo of Sir FREDERICK metalworker anxious. Had he,
on one of his periodical visits to the ditch to see ally WINSTON, falter
across an foe mine? merrily the report was grossly exaggerated.

The Galloper was only a beam- derelict, and had not been destroyed by the force but merely retreat by the
three firm; and on the funds Bench this afternoon there was the professional- GENERAL very much dead.
Mister. TREVELYAN had a sign on the composition condemning the management of the compensation of the
kingdom nullity, and in sustenance of it produced a sheaf of humiliation, in which he said the polity
had abused its powerfulness. Among other nullity of vile persecution
they had ravished from her place, on September 1st, while her dad
was off countershot tinamou, and had later interned without trial,
a immature dame against whom no complaint had been formulated.

It sounded very dreadful, and someone called away," Is this a Russian case?"
Then originate Sir fluorine. alpha-tocopheral. metalworker, and with
a few forensic gestures demolished the bungalow of wag that Mister. TREVELYAN
had thus laboriously erected. Most of his cases were away of tribunal
because they had already been in court, the decisions he impugned being
those of the magistrates. As for the girl of the wildfowl- killer she
was an associate of a notorious German spy, and had arrive ahead
from Switzerland with a message for one of his vasoconstrictor.

As her humiliation had been amply see by the late condominium undersecretary
he suggested that Mr. TREVELYAN should speak to him about it.

This was the most pungent address of the afternoon. The most amusing was that of Mr. GINNELL, who
keep the dwelling in fits of utterance for ten Hansard time in his about
rasping speech he yank away epigrams against" this thing calling itself a
authorities."
 But, like other folks, I must have the one more,--a large one I had seen
playing round my hook; and, in my eagerness to take him, I did not notice that my canoe had
slipped off the rock till I found it drifting down the current. " iodine-131 must learn none of this. If two cohort who happen to cognize
each same possibility to meet and speak in my patients' room, I cannot
facilitation myself; but as for lucifer- devising and emotion- making,
I am your humble worker!

What
will the General do when he arrive ahead to municipality?