Five months had passed away; the fate of Armstrong and his wife was still undecided, when a
message was brought to my chambers in the Temple from a woman said to be dying in St. Bartholomew's
Hospital. It was Mary Strugnell; who, when in a state of intoxication, had fallen down in front
of a carriage, as she was crossing near Holborn Hill, and had both her legs broken. She was
dying miserably, and had sent for me to make a full confession relative to Wilson's murder.
Armstrong's account was perfectly correct. The deed was committed by Pearce, and they were
packing up their plunder when they were startled by the unexpected return of the Armstrongs.
Pearce, snatching up a bundle and a portmanteau, escaped by the window; she had not nerve enough
to attempt it, and crawled back to her bedroom, where she, watching the doings of the farmer
through the chinks of the partition which separated her room from the passage, concocted the
story which convicted the prisoners. Pearce thinking himself pursued, too heavily encumbered
for rapid flight, left the portmanteau as described, intending to call for it in the morning,
if his fears proved groundless. He, however, had not courage to risk calling again, and made
the best of his way to London. He was now in Newgate under sentence of death for a burglary,
accompanied by personal violence to the inmates of the dwelling he and his gang had entered
and robbed. I took care to have the deposition of the dying wretch put into proper form; and
the result was, after a great deal of petitioning and worrying of authorities, a full pardon
for both Armstrong and his wife. They sold Craig Farm, and removed to some other part of the
country, where, I never troubled myself to inquire. Deeply grateful was I to be able at last
to wash my hands of an affair, which had cost me so much anxiety and vexation; albeit the lesson
it afforded me of not coming hastily to conclusions, even when the truth seems, as it were,
upon the surface of the matter, has not been, I trust, without its uses.

THE CONTESTED MARRIAGE.

I had just escaped to my chambers one winter afternoon from a heavy trial "at bar" in the King's
Bench, Westminster, and was poring over a case upon which an "opinion" was urgently solicited,
when my clerk entered with a letter which he had been requested to deliver by a lady, who had
called twice before during the day for the purpose of seeing me. Vexed at the interruption,
I almost snatched the letter from the man's hand, hastily broke the seal, and to my great surprise
found it was from my excellent old friend Sir Jasper Thornely of Thornely Hall, Lancashire.
It ran as follows:--

"My Dear ----, The bearer of this note is a lady whom I am desirous of serving to the utmost
extent of my ability. That she is really the widow she represents herself to be, and her son
consequently heir to the magnificent estates now in possession of the Emsdales--you remember
how they tripped up my heels at the last election for the borough of ------ I have no moral
doubt whatever; but whether her claim can be legally established is another affair. She will
tell you the story herself. It was a heartless business; but Sir Harry, who, you have no doubt
heard, broke his neck in a steeple-chase about ten months ago, was a sad wild dog. My advice
is, to look out for a sharp, clever, persevering attorney, and set him upon a hunt for evidence.
If he succeed, I undertake to pay him a thousand pounds over and above his legal costs. He'll
nose it out for that, I should think!--Yours, truly,

"Jasper Thornely.

"P.S.--Emsdale's son, I have just heard--confound their impudence!--intends, upon the strength
of this accession of property, to stand for the county against my old friend ----, at the dissolution,
which cannot now be far off. If you don't think one thousand pounds enough, I'll double it.
A cruelly, ill-used lady! and as to her son, he's the very image of the late Sir Harry Compton.
In haste--J.T. I re-open the letter to enclose a cheque for a hundred pounds, which you will
pay the attorney on account. They'll die hard, you may be sure. If it could come off next assizes,
we should spoil them for the county--J.T."

"Assizes"--"county"--"Sir Harry Compton," I involuntarily murmured, as I finished the perusal
of my old friend's incoherent epistle. "What on earth can the eccentric old fox-hunter mean?"
"Show the lady in," I added in a louder tone to the clerk. She presently appeared, accompanied
by a remarkably handsome boy about six years of age, both attired in deep mourning. The lady
approached with a timid, furtive step and glance, as if she were entering the den of some grim
ogre, rather than the quiet study of a civilized lawyer of mature age. I was at once struck
by her singular and touching loveliness. I have never seen a woman that so completely realized
the highest Madonna type of youthful, matronly beauty--its starlight radiance and mild serenity
of sorrow. Her voice, too, gentle and low, had a tone of patient sadness in it strangely affecting.
She was evidently a person, if not of high birth, of refined manners and cultivated mind; and
I soon ceased to wonder at warm-hearted old Sir Jasper's enthusiasm in her cause. Habitually,
however, on my guard against first impressions, I courteously, but coldly, invited her first
to a seat, and next to a more intelligible relation of her business with me than could be gathered
from the letter of which she was the bearer. She complied, and I was soon in possession of
the following facts and fancies:--

Violet Dalston and her sister Emily had lived for several years in close and somewhat straitened
retirement with their father, Captain Dalston, at Rock Cottage, on the outskirts of a village
about six miles distant from Leeds, when Captain Dalston, who was an enthusiastic angler, introduced
to his home a gentleman about twenty-five years of age, of handsome exterior and gentlemanly
manners, with whom congeniality of tastes and pursuits had made him acquainted. This stranger
was introduced to Violet (my interesting client) and her sister, as a Mr. Henry Grainger, the
son of a London merchant. Huge bowls of hot food are constantly being mixed and carried to them,
without any apparent consciousness on their part of their reciprocal responsibilities. What
I mean to say is that there are no eggs. The food which they eat resembles Christmas-pudding
at the time when it is stirred, and I have suggested that a sixpence should be concealed in it
every now and then--sixpence being apparently the current price of an egg--in order to indicate
the nature of our hopes.

I have made other valuable suggestions. I have suggested putting an anthracite stove in their
sitting-room, and papering the walls with illustrations representing various methods of mass
production, ordinary methods having failed. I notice that cabbages are suspended by a string across
the top of the parade-ground in order that the birds may obtain exercise by springing at them.
The cabbages are eaten, but I do not believe that the birds jump. I believe that they clamber up
the wire with their claws, walk along the tight-rope and bite the cabbage off with their teeth.

Sometimes,
as I think I have mentioned, the one with speckles escapes into the garden, and I have several
times been asked to chase it home.

Nothing makes one look more ridiculous than chasing an independent maybird of no particular
views across an onion bed. The rest of the animals appear to spend most of their time in walking about
the run with their hands in their pockets looking for things on the ground.

But every now and then one or other of them makes the loud cry which is usually associated with successful
egg-production; the whole household troops beaming with anticipation along the gravel-path;
and it is then discovered that the Buff has knocked one of the Whites off her perch, or that
one of the Whites has scratched a cinder on which the Buff had set her eye, or that the Independent
member has made a bitter speech which is deeply resented by the Coalition. But there are no eggs.

About
a week ago the corn which apparently forms a part of the necessary
nourishment of maybirds, and is kept in an outhouse, was attacked
by rats. I was told that I must do something about this. I buttered
some slices of bread with arsenic and laid them down on the outhouse
floor. About three months before their intended departure--this
very time twelvemonth, as nearly as may be--Captain Dalston was suddenly called to London,
to close the eyes of an only sister. This sad duty fulfilled, he was about to return, when,
passing towards dusk down St. James Street, he saw Henry Grainger, habited in a remarkable
sporting-dress, standing with several other gentlemen at the door of one of the club-houses.
Hastening across the street to accost him, he was arrested for a minute or so by a line of
carriages which turned sharply out of Piccadilly; and when he did reach the other side, young
Mr. Grainger and his companions had vanished. He inquired of the porter, and was assured that
no Mr. Grainger, senior or junior, was known there. Persisting that he had seen him standing
within the doorway, and describing his dress, the man with an insolent laugh exclaimed that
the gentleman who wore that dress was the famous sporting baronet, Sir Harry Compton!

Bewildered, and suspecting he hardly knew what, Captain Dalston, in defiance of young Grainger's
oft-iterated injunctions, determined to call at his father's residence, which he had always
understood to be in Leadenhall Street. No such name was, however, known there; and an examination,
to which he was advised, of the "Commercial Directory" failed to discover the whereabout of
the pretended London merchant. Heart-sick and spirit-wearied, Captain Dalston returned home
only to die. A violent cold, caught by imprudently riding in such bitter weather as it then
was, on the outside of the coach, aggravated by distress of mind, brought his already enfeebled
frame to the grave in less than two months after his arrival in Cumberland. He left his daughters
utterly unprovided for, except by the legal claim which the eldest possessed on a man who,
he feared, would turn out to be a worthless impostor. The penalty he paid for consenting to
so imprudent a marriage was indeed a heavy and bitter one. Months passed away, and still no
tidings of Violet's husband reached the sisters' sad and solitary home. At length, stimulated
by apprehensions of approaching destitution--whose foot was already on the threshold--and desirous
of gratifying a whim of Emily's, Violet consented to visit the neighborhood of Compton Castle
(the seat, her sister had ascertained, of the "celebrated sporting baronet," as the porter
called him) on their way to London, where they had relatives who, though not rich, might possibly
be able to assist them in obtaining some decent means of maintenance. They alighted at the
"Compton Arms," and the first object which met the astonished gaze of the sisters as they entered
the principal sitting-room of the inn, was a full-length portrait of Violet's husband, in the
exact sporting-dress described to them by their father. An ivory tablet attached to the lower
part of the frame informed the gazer that the picture was a copy, by permission, of the celebrated
portrait by Sir Thomas Lawrence, of Sir Harry Compton, Baronet. They were confounded, overwhelmed,
bewildered. Sir Harry, they found, had been killed about eight months previously in a steeple-chase;
and the castle and estates had passed, in default of direct issue, to a distant relative, Lord
Emsdale. Their story was soon bruited about; and, in the opinion of many persons, was confirmed
beyond reasonable question by the extraordinary likeness they saw or fancied between Violet's
son and the deceased baronet. Amongst others, Sir Jasper Thornely was a firm believer in the
identity of Henry Grainger and Sir Harry Compton; but unfortunately, beyond the assertion of
the sisters that the portrait of Sir Harry was young Grainger's portrait, the real or imaginary
likeness of the child to his reputed father, and some score of letters addressed to Violet
by her husband, which Sir Jasper persisted were in Sir Harry's handwriting, though few others
did (the hand, I saw at a glance, was a disguised one), not one tittle of evidence had he been
able to procure for love or money. As a last resource, he had consigned the case to me, and
the vulpine sagacity of a London attorney.

I suppose my countenance must be what is called a "speaking" one, for I had made no reply in
words to this statement of a case upon which I and a "London attorney" were to ground measures
for wresting a magnificent estate from the clutch of a powerful nobleman, and by "next assizes"
too--when the lady's beautiful eyes filled with tears, and turning to her child, she murmured
in that gentle, agitating voice of hers, "My poor boy." The words I was about to utter died
on my tongue, and I remained silent for several minutes. After all, thought I, this lady is
evidently sincere in her expressed conviction that Sir Harry Compton was her husband. If her
surmise be correct, evidence of the truth may perhaps be obtained by a keen search for it;
and since Sir Jasper guarantees the expenses--I rang the bell. "Step over to Cursitor Street,"
said I to the clerk as soon as he entered; "and if Mr. Ferret is within, ask him to step over
immediately." Ferret was just the man for such a commission. Indefatigable, resolute, sharp-witted,
and of a ceaseless, remorseless activity, a secret or a fact had need be very profoundly hidden
for him not to reach and fish it up. I have heard solemn doubts expressed by attorneys opposed
to him as to whether he ever really and truly slept at all--that is, a genuine Christian sleep,
as distinguished from a merely canine one, with one eye always half open. Mr. Ferret had been
for many years Mr. Simpkins' managing clerk; but ambition, and the increasing requirements
of a considerable number of young Ferrets, determined him on commencing business on his own
account; and about six months previous to the period of which I am now writing, a brass door-plate
in Cursitor Street, Chancery Lane, informed the public that Samuel Ferret, Esq., Attorney-at-Law,
might be consulted within.

Mr. Samuel Ferret was fortunately at home; and after a very brief interval, made his appearance,
entering with a short professional bow to me, and a very profound one to the lady, in whom
his quick gray eye seemed intuitively to espy a client. As soon as he was seated, I handed
him Sir Jasper's letter. He perused it carefully three times, examined the seal attentively,
and handed it back with--"An excellent letter as far as it goes, and very much to the point.
You intend, I suppose, that I should undertake this little affair?"

"Yes, if, after hearing the lady's case, you feel disposed to venture upon it."

Mr. Samuel Ferret's note-book was out in an instant; and the lady, uninterrupted by a syllable
from him, re-told her story.

"Good, very good, as far as it goes," remarked undismayed Samuel Ferret when she concluded;
"only it can scarcely be said to go very far. Moral presumption, which, in our courts unfortunately,
isn't worth a groat. Never mind. Magna est veritas, and so on. When, madam, did you say Sir
Harry--Mr. Grainger--first began to urge emigration?"

"Between two and three years ago."

"Have the goodness, if you please, to hand me the baronetage." I did so. "Good," resumed Ferret,
after turning over the leaves for a few seconds, "very good, as far as it goes. It is now just
two years and eight months since Sir Harry succeeded his uncle in the title and estates. You
would no doubt soon have heard, madam, that your husband was dead. Truly the heart of man is
deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked; and yet such conduct towards such a lady"--Ferret
intended no mere compliment; he was only giving utterance to the thoughts passing through his
brain; but his client's mounting color warned him to change the topic, which he very adroitly
did. "You intend, of course," said he, addressing me, "to proceed at law? No rumble--tumble
through the spiritual courts?"

"Certainly, if sufficient evidence to justify such a course can be obtained."

"Exactly: Doe, demise of Compton, versus Emsdale; action in ejectment, judgment of ouster.
Our friend Doe, madam--a very accommodating fellow is Doe--will, if we succeed, put you in
possession as natural guardian of your son. Well, sir," turning to me, "I may as well give
you an acknowledgment for that cheque. I undertake the business, and shall, if possible, be
off to Leeds by this evening's mail." The acknowledgment was given, and Mr. Ferret, pocketing
the cheque, departed in high glee.

"The best man, madam, in all broad London," said I in answer to Mrs. Grainger's somewhat puzzled
look, "you could have retained. Fond as he seems, and in fact is, of money--what sensible person
is not?--Lord Emsdale could not bribe him with his earldom, now that he is fairly engaged in
your behalf, I will not say to betray you, but to abate his indefatigable activity in furtherance
of your interests. Attorneys, madam, be assured, whatever nursery tales may teach, have, the
very sharpest of them, their points of honor." The lady and her son departed, and I turned
again to the almost forgotten "case."

Three weeks had nearly glided by, and still no tidings of Mr. Ferret. Mrs. Grainger, and her
sister Emily Dalston, a very charming person, had called repeatedly; but as I of course had
nothing to communicate, they were still condemned to languish under the heart-sickness caused
by hope deferred. At last our emissary made his wished-for appearance.

"Well, Mr. Ferret," said I, on entering my library, where I found him composedly awaiting my
arrival, "what success?"

"Why, nothing of much consequence as yet," replied he; "I am, you know, only, as it were, just
commencing the investigation. The Leeds parson that married them is dead, and the old clerk
is paralytic, and has lost his memory. If, however, they were both alive, and in sound health
of mind and body, they could, I fancy, help us but little, as Bilston tells me neither the
Dalstons nor Grainger had ever entered the church till the morning of the wedding; and they
soon afterwards removed to Cumberland, so that it is scarcely possible either parson or clerk
could prove that Violet Dalston was married to Sir Harry Compton. A very intelligent fellow
is Bilston: he was present at the marriage, you remember; and a glorious witness, if he had
only something of importance to depose to; powdered hair and a pigtail, double chin, and six
feet in girth at least; highly respectable--capital witness, very--only, unfortunately, he
can only testify that a person calling himself Grainger married Violet Dalston; not much in that!"

"So, then, your three weeks' labor has been entirely thrown away!"

"Not so fast--not so fast--you jump too hastily at conclusions. The Cumberland fellow that
sold Grainger the house--only the equity of redemption of it, by the way--there's a large mortgage
on it--can prove nothing. Nobody about there can, except the surgeon; he can prove Mrs. Grainger's
accouchement--that is something. I have been killing myself every evening this last week with
grog and tobacco smoke at the "Compton Arms," in the company of the castle servants, and if
the calves' heads had known anything essential, I fancy I should have wormed it out of them.
They have, however, kindly furnished me with a scrawl of introduction to the establishment
now in town, some of whom I shall have the honor to meet, in the character of an out-and-out
liberal sporting gentleman, at the "Albemarle Arms" this evening. I want to get hold of his
confidential valet, if he had one--those go-a-head fellows generally have--a Swiss, or some
other foreign animal."

"Is this all?"

"Why, no," rejoined Ferret, with a sharp twinkle of his sharp gray eye, amounting almost to
a wink; "there is one circumstance which I cannot help thinking, though I scarcely know why,
will put us, by the help of patience and perseverance, on the right track. In a corner of the
registry of marriage there is written Z.Z. in bold letters. In no other part of the book does
this occur. What may that mean?"

"Had the incumbent of the living a curate at the time?"

"No. On that point I am unfortunately too well satisfied. Neither are there any names with
such initials in any of the Leeds churchyards. Still this Z.Z. may be of importance, if we
could but discover who he is. But how?--that is the question. Advertise? Show our hands to
the opposite players, and find if Z.Z. is really an entity, and likely to be of service, that
when we want him in court, he is half way to America. No, no; that would never do."

Mr. Ferret I saw was getting into a brown study; and as I had pressing business to despatch,
I got rid of him as speedily as I could, quite satisfied, spite of Z.Z., that Mrs. Grainger's
chance of becoming Lady Compton was about equal to mine of ascending the British throne some
fine day.

Two days afterwards I received the following note:--

"Dear Sir--Z.Z. is the man! I'm off to Shropshire. Back, if possible, the day after to-morrow.
Not a word even to the ladies. Huzza! In haste, Samuel Ferret."

What could this mean? Spite of Mr. Ferret's injunction, I could not help informing the sisters,
who called soon after I received the note, that a discovery, esteemed of importance by our
emissary, had been made; and they returned home with lightened hearts, after agreeing to repeat
their visit on the day Mr. Ferret had named for his return.

On reaching my chambers about four o'clock in the afternoon of that day, I found the ladies
there, and in a state of great excitement. Mr. Ferret, my clerk had informed them, had called
twice, and seemed in the highest spirits. We had wasted but a few minutes in conjectures when
Mr. Ferret, having ascended the stairs two or three at a time, burst, sans cérémonie, into
the apartment.

"Good-day, sir. Lady Compton, your most obedient servant; madam, yours! All right! Only just
in time to get the writ sealed; served it myself a quarter of an hour ago, just as his lordship
was getting into his carriage. Not a day to lose; just in time. Capital! Glorious!"

"What do you mean, Mr. Ferret?" exclaimed Emily Dalston: her sister was too agitated to speak.

"What do I mean? Let us all four step, sir, into your inner sanctum, and I'll soon tell you
what I mean."

We adjourned, accordingly, to an inner and more private room. Our conference lasted about half
an hour, at the end of which the ladies took their leave: Lady Compton, her beautiful features
alternately irradiated and clouded by smiles and tears, murmuring in a broken, agitated voice,
as she shook hands with me, "You see, sir, he intended at last to do us justice."

The news that an action had been brought on behalf of an infant son of the late Sir Harry Compton
against the Earl of Emsdale, for the recovery of the estates in the possession of that nobleman,
produced the greatest excitement in the part of the county where the property was situated.
The assize town was crowded, on the day the trial was expected to come on, by the tenantry
of the late baronet and their families, with whom the present landlord was by no means popular.
As I passed up the principal street, towards the court-house, accompanied by my junior, I was
received with loud hurraings and waving of handkerchiefs, something after the manner, I suppose,
in which chivalrous steel-clad knights, about to do battle in behalf of distressed damsels,
were formerly received by the miscellaneous spectators of the lists. Numerous favors, cockades,
streamers, of the Compton colors, used in election contests, purple and orange, were also slyly
exhibited, to be more ostentatiously displayed if the Emsdale party should be beaten. On entering
the court, I found it crowded, as we say, to the ceiling. Not only every seat, but every inch
of standing-room that could be obtained, was occupied, and it was with great difficulty the
ushers of the court preserved a sufficiently clear space for the ingress and egress of witnesses
and counsel. Lord Emsdale, pale and anxious, spite of manifest effort to appear contemptuously
indifferent, sat near the judge, who had just entered the court. The Archbishop of York, whom
we had subpoenaed, why, his Grace had openly declared, he knew not, was also of course accommodated
with a seat on the bench. A formidable bar, led by the celebrated Mr. S ----, was, I saw, arrayed
against us, though what the case was they had to meet, so well had Ferret kept his secret,
they knew no more than did their horse-hair wigs. Ferret had solemnly enjoined the sisters
to silence, and no hint, I need scarcely say, was likely to escape my lips. The jury, special
of course, were in attendance, and the case, "Doe, demise of Compton versus Emsdale," having
been called, they were duly sworn to try the issue. My junior, Mr. Frampton, was just rising
"to state the case," as it is technically called, when a tremendous shouting, rapidly increasing
in volume and distinctness, and mingled with the sound of carriage wheels, was heard approaching,
and presently Mr. Samuel Ferret appeared, followed by Lady Compton and her son, the rear of
the party brought up by Sir Jasper Thornely, whose jolly fox-hunting face shone like a full-blown
peony. The lady, though painfully agitated, looked charmingly; and the timid, appealing glance
she unconsciously, as it were, threw round the court, would, in a doubtful case, have secured
a verdict. "Very well got up, indeed," said Mr. S ----, in a voice sufficiently loud for the
jury to hear--"very effectively managed, upon my word." We were, however, in too good-humor
to heed taunts; and as soon as silence was restored, Mr. Frampton briefly stated the case,
and I rose to address the jury. My speech was purposely brief, business-like, and confident.
I detailed the circumstances of the marriage of Violet Dalston, then only eighteen years of
age, with a Mr. Grainger; the birth of a son; and subsequent disappearance of the husband;
concluding by an assurance to the jury that I should prove, by incontrovertible evidence, that
Grainger was no other person than the late Sir Harry Compton, baronet. This address by no means
lessened the vague apprehensions of the other side. A counsel that, with such materials for
eloquence, disdained having recourse to it, must needs have a formidable case. The smiling
countenances of Mr. S ---- and his brethren became suddenly overcast, and the pallor and agitation
of Lord Emsdale sensibly increased.

We proved our case clearly, step by step: the marriage, the accouchement, the handwriting of
Grainger--Bilston proved this--to the letters addressed to his wife, were clearly established.
The register of the marriage was produced by the present clerk of the Leeds church; the initials
Z.Z. were pointed out; and at my suggestion the book was deposited for the purposes of the
trial with the clerk of the court. Not a word of cross-examination had passed the lips of our
learned friends on the other side: they allowed our evidence to pass as utterly indifferent.
A change was at hand.

Our next witness was James Kirby, groom to the late baronet and to the present earl. After
a few unimportant questions, I asked him if he had ever seen that gentleman before, pointing
to Mr. Ferret, who stood up for the more facile recognition of his friend Kirby.

"Oh yes, he remembered the gentleman well; and a very nice, good-natured, soft sort of a gentleman
he was. He treated witness at the "Albemarle Arms," London, to as much brandy and water as
he liked, out of respect to his late master, whom the gentleman seemed uncommon fond of."

"Well, and what return did you make for so much liberality?"

"Return! very little I do assure ye. I told un how many horses Sir Harry kept, and how many
races he won; but I couldn't tell un much more, pump as much as he would, because, do ye see,
I didn't know no more."

An audible titter from the other side greeted the witness as he uttered the last sentence.
Mr. S ----, with one of his complacent glances at the jury-box, remarking in a sufficiently
loud whisper, "That he had never heard a more conclusive reason for not telling in his life."

"Did you mention that you were present at the death of the late baronet?"

"Yes I did. I told un that I were within about three hundred red yards of late master when
he had that ugly fall; and that when I got up to un, he sort of pulled me down, and whispered
hoarse-like, 'Send for Reverend Zachariah Zimmerman.' I remembered it, it was sich an outlandish
name like."

"Oh, oh," thought I, as Mr. S ---- reached across the table for the parish register, "Z.Z.
is acquiring significance I perceive."

"Well, and what did this gentleman say to that?"

"Say? Why, nothing particular, only seemed quite joyful 'mazed like; and when I asked un why,
he said it was such a comfort to find his good friend Sir Harry had such pious thoughts in
his last moments."

The laugh, quickly suppressed, that followed these words, did not come from our learned friends
on the other side.

"Sir Harry used those words?"

"He did; but as he died two or three minutes after, it were of course no use to send for no
parson whatsomever."

"Exactly. That will do, unless the other side have any questions to ask." No question was put,
and the witness went down. "Call," said I to the crier of the court--"call the Reverend Zachariah
Zimmerman."

This was a bomb-shell. Lord Emsdale, the better to conceal his agitation, descended from the
bench and took his seat beside his counsel. The Reverend Zachariah Zimmerman, examined by Mr.
Frampton, deponed in substance as follows:--"He was at present rector of Dunby, Shropshire,
and had been in holy orders more than twenty years. Was on a visit to the Reverend Mr. Cramby
at Leeds seven years ago, when one morning Mr. Cramby, being much indisposed, requested him
to perform the marriage ceremony for a young couple then waiting in church. He complied, and
joined in wedlock Violet Dalston and Henry Grainger. The bride was the lady now pointed out
to him in court; the bridegroom he had discovered, about two years ago, to be no other than
the late Sir Harry Compton, baronet. The initials Z.Z. were his, and written by him. The parish
clerk, a failing old man, had not officiated at the marriage; a nephew, he believed, had acted
for him, but he had entered the marriage in the usual form afterwards."

"How did you ascertain that Henry Grainger was the late Sir Harry Compton?"

"I was introduced to Sir Harry Compton in London, at the house of the Archbishop of York, by
his Grace himself."

"I remember the incident distinctly, Mr. Zimmerman," said his Grace from the bench.

"Besides which," added the rector, "my present living was presented to me, about eighteen months
since, by the deceased baronet. I must further, in justice to myself, explain that I immediately
after the introduction, sought an elucidation of the mystery from Sir Harry; and he then told
me that, in a freak of youthful passion, he had married Miss Dalston in the name of Grainger,
fearing his uncle's displeasure should it reach his ears; that his wife had died in her first
confinement, after giving birth to a still-born child, and he now wished the matter to remain
in oblivion. He also showed me several letters, which I then believed genuine, confirming his
story. I heard no more of the matter till waited upon by the attorney for the plaintiff, Mr.
Ferret."

A breathless silence prevailed during the delivery of this evidence. At its conclusion, the
dullest brain in court comprehended that the cause was gained; and a succession of cheers,
which could not be suppressed, rang through the court, and were loudly echoed from without.
Sir Jasper's voice sounding high above all the rest. Suddenly, too, as if by magic, almost
everybody in court, save the jury and counsel, were decorated with orange and purple favors,
and a perfect shower of them fell at the feet and about the persons of Lady Compton, her sister,
who had by this time joined her, and the infant Sir Henry. As soon as the expostulations and
menaces of the judge had restored silence and order, his lordship, addressing Lord Emsdale's
senior counsel, said, "Well, Brother S ----, what course do you propose to adopt ?"

"My lord," replied Mr. S ---- after a pause, "I and my learned friends have thought it our
duty to advise Lord Emsdale that further opposition to the plaintiff's claim would prove ultimately
futile; and I have therefore to announce, my lord and gentlemen of the jury, that we acquiesce
in a verdict for the plaintiff."

"You have counseled wisely," replied his lordship. "Gentlemen of the jury, you will of course
return a verdict for the plaintiff."

The jury hastily and joyfully assented: the verdict was recorded, and the court adjourned for
an hour in the midst of tumultuous excitement. The result of the trial flew through the crowd
outside like wildfire; and when Lady Compton and her son, after struggling through the densely-crowded
court, stepped into Sir Jasper's carriage, which was in waiting at the door, the enthusiastic
uproar that ensued--the hurrahing, shouting, waving of hats and handkerchiefs--deafened and
bewildered one; and it was upwards of an hour ere the slow-moving chariot reached Sir Jasper's
mansion, though not more than half a mile distant from the town. Mr. Ferret, mounted on the
box, and almost smothered in purple and orange, was a conspicuous object, and a prime favorite
with the crowd. The next day Lord Emsdale, glad, doubtless, to quit the neighborhood as speedily
as possible, left the castle, giving Lady Compton immediate possession. The joy of the tenantry
was unbounded, and under the wakeful superintendence of Mr. Ferret, all claims against Lord
Emsdale for received rents, dilapidations, &c. were adjusted, we may be sure, not adversely
to his client's interests; though he frequently complained, not half so satisfactorily as if
Lady Compton had not interfered, with what Mr. Ferret deemed misplaced generosity in the matter.

As I was obliged to proceed onwards with the circuit, I called at Compton Castle to take leave
of my interesting and fortunate client a few days after her installation there. I was most
gratefully received and entertained. As I shook hands at parting, her ladyship, after pressing
upon me a diamond ring of great value, said, whilst her charming eyes filled with regretful,
yet joyful tears, "Do not forget that poor Henry intended at last to do us justice." Prosperity,
thought I, will not spoil that woman. It has not, as the world, were I authorized to communicate
her real name, would readily acknowledge.

THE MOTHER AND SON.

Dinner had been over about half an hour one Sunday afternoon.--the only day on which for years
I had been able to enjoy a dinner--and I was leisurely sipping a glass of wine, when a carriage
drove rapidly up to the door, a loud rat-tat followed, and my friend Dr. Curteis, to my great
surprise, was announced.

"I have called," said the doctor as we shook hands, "to ask you to accompany me to Mount Place.
I have just received a hurried note from Miss Armitage, stating that her mother, after a very
brief illness, is rapidly sinking, and requesting my attendance, as well as that of a legal
gentleman, immediately."

"Mrs. Armitage!" I exclaimed, inexpressibly shocked. "Why, it is scarcely more than a fortnight
ago that I met her at the Rochfords' in brilliant health and spirits."

"Even so. But will you accompany me? I don't know where to find any one else for the moment,
and time presses."

"It is an attorney, probably, rather than a barrister, that is needed; but under the circumstances,
and knowing her as I do, I cannot hesitate."

We were soon bowling along at a rapid pace, and in little more than an hour reached the dying
lady's residence, situated in the county of Essex, and distant about ten miles from London.
We entered together; and Dr. Curteis, leaving me in the library, proceeded at once to the sick
chamber. About ten minutes afterwards the housekeeper, a tall, foreign-looking, and rather
handsome woman, came into the room, and announced that the doctor wished to see me. She was
deadly pale, and, I observed, trembled like an aspen. I motioned her to precede me; and she,
with unsteady steps, immediately led the way. So great was her agitation, that twice, in ascending
the stairs, she only saved herself from falling by grasping the banister-rail. The presage
I drew from the exhibition of such overpowering emotion, by a person whom I knew to have been
long not only in the service, but in the confidence of Mrs. Armitage, was soon confirmed by
Dr. Curteis, whom we met coming out of the chamber of the expiring patient.

"Step this way," said he, addressing me, and leading to an adjoining apartment. "We do not
require your attendance, Mrs. Bourdon," said he, as soon as we reached it, to the housekeeper,
who had swiftly followed us, and now stood staring with eager eyes in the doctor's face, as
if life and death hung on his lips. "Have the goodness to leave us," he added tartly, perceiving
she did not stir, but continued her fearful, scrutinizing glance. She started at his altered
tone, flushed crimson, then paled to a chalky whiteness, and muttering, left the apartment.

"The danger of her mistress has bewildered her," I remarked.

"Perhaps so," remarked Dr. Curteis. "Be that as it may, Mrs. Armitage is beyond all human help.
In another hour she will be, as we say, no more."

"I feared so. What is the nature of her disorder?"

"A rapid wasting away, as I am informed. The appearances presented are those of a person expiring
of atrophy, or extreme emaciation."

"Indeed. And so sudden too!"

"Yes. I am glad you are come, although your professional services will not, it seems, be required--a
neighboring attorney having performed the necessary duty--something, I believe, relative to
the will of the dying lady. We will speak further together by and by. In the meantime," continued
Dr. Curteis, with a perceptible tremor in his voice, "it will do neither of us any harm to
witness the closing scene of the life of Mary Rawdon, whom you and I twenty years ago worshipped
as one of the gentlest and most beautiful of beings with which the Creator ever graced his
universe. It will be a peaceful parting. Come."

Just as, with noiseless footsteps, we entered the silent death-chamber, the last rays of the
setting sun were falling upon the figure of Ellen Armitage--who knelt in speechless agony by
the bedside of her expiring parent--and faintly lighting up the pale, emaciated, sunken features
of the so lately brilliant, courted Mrs. Armitage! But for the ineffaceable splendor of her
deep-blue eyes, I should scarcely have recognized her. Standing in the shadow, as thrown by
the heavy bed-drapery, we gazed and listened unperceived.

"Ellen," murmured the dying lady, "come nearer to me. It is growing dark, and I cannot see
you plainly. Now, then, read to me, beginning at the verse you finished with, as good Dr. Curteis
entered. Ay," she faintly whispered, "it is thus, Ellen, with thy hand clasped in mine, and
with the words of the holy book sounding from thy dear lips, that I would pass away!"

Ellen, interrupted only by her blinding tears, making sad stops, complied. Twilight stole on,
and threw its shadow over the solemn scene, deepening its holiness of sorrow. Night came with
all her train; and the silver radiance kissed into ethereal beauty the pale face of the weeping
girl, still pursuing her sad and sacred task. We hesitated to disturb, by the slightest movement
the repose of a death-bed over which belief and hope, those only potent ministers, shed light
and calm! At length Dr. Curteis advanced gently towards the bed, and taking the daughter's
hand, said in a low voice, "Had you not better retire, my dear young lady, for a few moments?"
She understood him, and rising from her knees, threw herself in an ecstacy of grief upon the
corpse, from which the spirit had just passed away. Assistance was summoned, and the sobbing
girl was borne from the chamber.

I descended, full of emotion, to the library, where Dr. Curteis promised shortly to join me.
Noiselessly entering the room, I came suddenly upon the housekeeper and a tall young man, standing
with their backs towards me in the recesses of one of the windows, and partly shrouded by the
heavy cloth curtains. They were evidently in earnest conference, and several words, the significance
of which did not at the moment strike me, reached my ears before they perceived my approach.
The instant they did so, they turned hastily round, and eyed me with an expression of flurried
alarm, which at the time surprised me not a little. "All is over, Mrs. Bourdon," said I, finding
she did not speak; "and your presence is probably needed by Miss Armitage." A flash of intelligence,
as I spoke, passed between the pair; but whether indicative of grief or joy, so momentary was
the glance, I should have been puzzled to determine. The housekeeper immediately left the room,
keeping her eyes, as she passed, fixed upon me with the same nervous apprehensive look which
had before irritated Dr. Curteis. The young man followed more slowly. He was a tall and rather
handsome youth, apparently about one or two-and-twenty years of age. His hair was black as
jet, and his dark eyes were of singular brilliancy; but the expression, I thought, was scarcely
a refined or highly-intellectual one. His resemblance to Mrs. Bourdon, whose son indeed he
was, was very striking. He bowed slightly, but courteously, as to an equal, as he closed the
door, and I was left to the undisturbed enjoyment of my own reflections, which, ill-defined
and indistinct as they were, were anything but pleasant company. My reverie was at length interrupted
by the entrance of the doctor, with the announcement that the carriage was in waiting to re-convey
us to town.

We had journeyed several miles on our return before a word was spoken by either of us. My companion
was apparently even more painfully pre-occupied than myself. He was, however, the first to
break silence. "The emaciated corpse we have just left little resembles the gay, beautiful
girl, for whose smiles you and I were once disposed to shoot each other!" The doctor's voice
trembled with emotion, and his face, I perceived, was pale as marble.

"Mary Rawdon," I remarked, "lives again in her daughter."

"Yes; her very image. Do you know," continued he, speaking with rapid energy, "I suspect Mary
Rawdon--Mrs. Armitage, I would say--has been foully, treacherously dealt with!"

I started with amazement; and yet the announcement but embodied and gave form and color to
my own ill-defined and shadowy suspicions.

"Good heavens! How? By whom?"

"Unless I am greatly mistaken, she has been poisoned by an adept in the use of such destructive
agents."

"Mrs. Bourdon?"

"No; by her son. At least my suspicions point that way. She is probably cognizant of the crime.
But in order that you should understand the grounds upon which my conjectures are principally
founded, I must enter into a short explanation. Mrs. Bourdon, a woman of Spanish extraction,
and who formerly occupied a much higher position than she does now, has lived with Mrs. Armitage
from the period of her husband's death, now about sixteen years ago. Mrs. Bourdon has a son,
a tall, good-looking fellow enough, whom you may have seen."

"He was with his mother in the library as I entered it after leaving you."

"Ah! well, hem! This boy, in his mother's opinion--but that perhaps is somewhat excusable--exhibited
early indications of having been born a "genius." Mrs. Armitage, who had been first struck
by the beauty of the child, gradually acquired the same notion; and the result was, that he
was little by little invested--with at least her tacit approval--with the privileges supposed
to be the lawful inheritance of such gifted spirits; namely, the right to be as idle as he
pleased--geniuses, you know, can, according to the popular notion, attain any conceivable amount
of knowledge per saltum at a bound--and to exalt himself in the stilts of his own conceit above
the useful and honorable pursuits suited to the station in life in which Providence had cast
his lot. The fruit of such training soon showed itself. Young Bourdon grew up a conceited and
essentially-ignorant puppy, capable of nothing but bad verses, and thoroughly impressed with
but one important fact, which was, that he, Alfred Bourdon, was the most gifted and the most
ill-used of all God's creatures. To genius, in any intelligible sense of the term, he has in
truth no pretension. He is endowed, however, with a kind of reflective talent, which is often
mistaken by fools for creative power. The morbid fancies and melancholy scorn of a Byron, for
instance, such gentry reflect back from their foggy imaginations in exaggerated and distorted
feebleness of whining versicles, and so on with other lights celestial or infernal. This, however,
by the way. The only rational pursuit he ever followed, and that only by fits and starts, and
to gratify his faculty of "wonder," I fancy, was chemistry. A small laboratory was fitted up
for him in the little summer-house you may have observed at the further corner of the lawn.
This study of his, if study such desultory snatches at science may be called, led him, in his
examination of vegetable bodies, to a smattering acquaintance with botany, a science of which
Ellen Armitage is an enthusiastic student. They were foolishly permitted to botanize together,
and the result was, that Alfred Bourdon, acting upon the principle that genius--whether sham
or real--levels all merely mundane distinctions, had the impudence to aspire to the hand of
Miss Armitage. His passion, sincere or simulated, has never been, I have reason to know, in
the slightest degree reciprocated by its object; but so blind is vanity, that when, about six
weeks ago, an éclaircissement took place, and the fellow's dream was somewhat rudely dissipated,
the untoward rejection of his preposterous suit was, there is every reason to believe, attributed
by both mother and son to the repugnance of Mrs. Armitage alone; and to this idiotic hallucination
she has, I fear, fallen a sacrifice. Judging from the emaciated appearance of the body, and
other phenomena communicated to me by her ordinary medical attendant--a blundering ignoramus,
who ought to have called in assistance long before--she has been poisoned with iodine, which,
administered in certain quantities, would produce precisely the same symptoms. Happily there
is no mode of destroying human life which so surely leads to the detection of the murderer
as the use of such agents; and of this truth the post mortem examination of the body, which
takes place to-morrow morning, will, if I am not grossly mistaken, supply another vivid illustration.
Legal assistance will no doubt be necessary, and I am sure I do not err in expecting that you
will aid me in bringing to justice the murderer of Mary Rawdon?"

A pressure of his hand was my only answer. "I shall call for you at ten o'clock" said he, as
he put me down at my own door. I bowed, and the carriage drove off.

"Well!" said I, as Dr. Curteis and Mr. ---- the eminent surgeon entered the library at Mount
Place the following morning after a long absence.

"As I anticipated," replied the doctor with a choking voice: "she has been poisoned!"

I started to my feet. "And the murderer?"

"Our suspicions still point to young Bourdon; but the persons of both mother and son have been
secured."

"Apart?"

"Yes; and I have despatched a servant to request the presence of a neighbor--a county magistrate.
I expect him momently."

After a brief consultation, we all three directed our steps to the summer-house which contained
young Bourdon's laboratory. In the room itself nothing of importance was discovered; but in
an enclosed recess, which we broke open, we found a curiously-fashioned glass bottle half full
of iodine.

"This is it!" said Mr. ----; "and in a powdered state too--just ready for mixing with brandy
or any other available dissolvent." The powder had somewhat the appearance of fine black lead.
Nothing further of any consequence being observed, we returned to the house, where the magistrate
had already arrived.

Alfred Bourdon was first brought in; and he having been duly cautioned that he was not obliged
to answer any question, and that what he did say would be taken down, and, if necessary, used
against him, I proposed the following questions:--

"Have you the key of your laboratory?"

"No; the door is always open."

"Well, then, of any door or cupboard in the room?"

At this question his face flushed purple: he stammered, "There is no"--and abruptly paused.

"Do I understand you to say there is no cupboard or place of concealment in the room?"

"No: here is the key."

"Has any one had access to the cupboard or recess of which this is the key, except yourself?"

The young man shook as if smitten with ague: his lips chattered, but no articulate sound escaped
them.

"You need not answer the question," said the magistrate, "unless you choose to do so. I again
warn you that all you say will, if necessary, be used against you."

"No one," he at length gasped, mastering his hesitation by a strong exertion of the will--"no
one can have had access to the place but myself. I have never parted with the key."

Mrs. Bourdon was now called in. After interchanging a glance of intense agony, and, as it seemed
to me, of affectionate intelligence with her son, she calmly answered the questions put to
her. They were unimportant, except the last, and that acted upon her like a galvanic shock.
It was this--"Did you ever struggle with your son on the landing leading to the bedroom of
the deceased for the possession of this bottle?" and I held up that which we had found in the
recess.

A slight scream escaped her lips; and then she stood rigid, erect, motionless, glaring alternately
at me and at the fatal bottle with eyes that seemed starting from their sockets. I glanced
towards the son; he was also affected in a terrible manner. His knees smote each other, and
a clammy perspiration burst forth and settled upon his pallid forehead.

"Again I caution you," iterated the magistrate, "that you are not bound to answer any of these
questions."

The woman's lips moved. "No--never!" she almost inaudibly gasped, and fell senseless on the floor.

As soon as she was removed, Jane Withers was called. She deposed that three days previously,
as she was, just before dusk, arranging some linen in a room a few yards distant from the bedroom
of her late mistress, she was surprised at hearing a noise just outside the door, as of persons
struggling and speaking in low but earnest tones. She drew aside a corner of the muslin curtain
of the window which locked upon the passage or corridor, and there saw Mrs. Bourdon striving
to wrest something from her son's hand. She heard Mrs. Bourdon say, "You shall not do it, or
you shall not have it"--she could not be sure which. A noise of some sort seemed to alarm them:
they ceased struggling, and listened attentively for a few seconds: then Alfred Bourdon stole
off on tip-toe, leaving the object in dispute, which witness could not see distinctly, in his
mother's hand. Mrs. Bourdon continued to listen, and presently Miss Armitage, opening the door
of her mother's chamber, called her by name. She immediately placed what was in her hand on
the marble top of a side-table standing in the corridor, and hastened to Miss Armitage. Witness
left the room she had been in a few minutes afterwards, and, curious to know what Mrs. Bourdon
and her son had been struggling for, went to the table to look at it. It was an oddly-shaped
glass bottle, containing a good deal of a blackish-gray powder, which, as she held it up to
the light, looked like black-lead!

"Would you be able to swear to the bottle if you saw it?"

"Certainly I should."

"By what mark or token?"

"The name of Valpy or Vulpy was cast into it--that is, the name was in the glass itself."

"Is this it?"

"It is: I swear most positively."

A letter was also read which had been taken from Bourdon's pocket. It was much creased, and
was proved to be in the handwriting of Mrs. Armitage. It consisted of a severe rebuke at the
young man's presumption in seeking to address himself to her daughter, which insolent ingratitude,
the writer said, she should never, whilst she lived, either forget or forgive. This last sentence
was strongly underlined in a different ink from that used by the writer of the letter.

The surgeon deposed to the cause of death. It had been brought on by the action of iodine,
which, administered in certain quantities, produced symptoms as of rapid atrophy, such as had
appeared in Mrs. Armitage. The glass bottle found in the recess contained iodine in a pulverized
state.

I deposed that, on entering the library on the previous evening I overheard young Mr. Bourdon,
addressing his mother, say, "Now that it is done past recall, I will not shrink from any consequences,
be they what they may!"

This was the substance of the evidence adduced; and the magistrate at once committed Alfred
Bourdon to Chelmsford jail, to take his trial at the next assize for "wilful murder." A coroner's
inquisition a few days after also returned a verdict of "wilful murder" against him on the
same evidence.

About an hour after his committal, and just previous to the arrival of the vehicle which was
to convey him to the county prison, Alfred Bourdon requested an interview with me. I very reluctantly
consented; but steeled as I was against him, I could not avoid feeling dreadfully shocked at
the change which so brief an interval had wrought upon him. It had done the work of years.
Despair--black, utter despair--was written in every lineament of his expressive countenance.

"I have requested to see you," said the unhappy culprit, "rather than Dr. Curteis, because
he, I know, is bitterly prejudiced against me. But you will not refuse, I think, the solemn
request of a dying man--for a dying man I feel myself to be--however long or short the interval
which stands between me and the scaffold. It is not with a childish hope that any assertion
of mine can avail before the tribunal of the law against the evidence adduced this day, that
I, with all the solemnity befitting a man whose days are numbered, declare to you that I am
wholly innocent of the crime laid to my charge. I have no such expectation; I seek only that
you, in pity of my youth and untimely fate, should convey to her whom I have madly presumed
to worship this message: 'Alfred Bourdon was mad, but not blood-guilty; and of the crime laid
to his charge he is innocent as an unborn child.'"

"The pure and holy passion, young man," said I, somewhat startled by his impressive manner,
"however presumptuous, as far as social considerations are concerned, it might be, by which
you affect to be inspired, is utterly inconsistent with the cruel, dastardly crime of which
such damning evidence has an hour since been given"--

"Say no more, sir," interrupted Bourdon, sinking back in his seat, and burying his face in
his hands: "it were a bootless errand; she could not, in the face of that evidence, believe
my unsupported assertion! It were as well perhaps she did not. And yet, sir, it is hard to
be trampled into a felon's grave, loaded with the maledictions of those whom you would coin
your heart to serve and bless! Ah, sir," he continued, whilst tears of agony streamed through
his firmly-closed fingers, "you cannot conceive the unutterable bitterness of the pang which
rends the heart of him who feels that he is not only despised, but loathed, hated, execrated,
by her whom his soul idolizes! Mine was no boyish, transient passion: it has grown with my
growth, and strengthened with my strength. My life has been but one long dream of her. All
that my soul had drunk in of beauty in the visible earth and heavens--the light of setting
suns--the radiance of the silver stars--the breath of summer flowers, together with all which
we imagine of celestial purity and grace, seemed to me in her incarnated, concentrated, and
combined! And now lost--lost--forever lost!" The violence of his emotions choked his utterance;
and deeply and painfully affected, I hastened from his presence.

Time sped as ever onwards, surely, silently; and justice, with her feet of lead, but hands
of iron, closed gradually upon her quarry. Alfred Bourdon was arraigned before a jury of his
countrymen, to answer finally to the accusation of wilful murder preferred against him.

The evidence, as given before the committing magistrate, and the coroner's inquisition, was
repeated with some addition of passionate expressions used by the prisoner indicative of a
desire to be avenged on the deceased. The cross-examination by the counsel for the defense
was able, but failed to shake the case for the prosecution. His own admission, that no one
but himself had access to the recess where the poison was found, told fatally against him.
When called upon to address the jury, he delivered himself of a speech rather than a defense;
of an oratorical effusion, instead of a vigorous, and, if possible, damaging commentary upon
the evidence arrayed against him. It was a labored, and in part eloquent, exposition of the
necessary fallibility of human judgment, illustrated by numerous examples of erroneous verdicts.
His peroration I jotted down at the time:--"Thus, my lord and gentlemen of the jury, is it
abundantly manifest, not only by these examples, but by the testimony which every man bears
in his own breast, that God could not have willed, could not have commanded, his creatures
to perform a pretended duty, which he vouchsafed them no power to perform righteously. Oh,
be sure that if he had intended, if he had commanded you to pronounce irreversible decrees
upon your fellow-man, quenching that life which is his highest gift, he would have endowed
you with gifts to perform that duty rightly. Has he done so? Ask not alone the pages dripping
with innocent blood which I have quoted, but your own hearts! Are you, according to the promise
of the serpent-tempter, 'gods, knowing good from evil?' of such clear omniscience, that you
can hurl an unprepared soul before the tribunal of its Maker, in the full assurance that you
have rightly loosed the silver cord which he had measured, have justly broken the golden bowl
which he had fashioned! Oh, my lord," he concluded, his dark eyes flashing with excitement,
"it is possible that the first announcement of my innocence of this crime, to which you will
give credence, may be proclaimed from the awful tribunal of him who alone cannot err! How if
he, whose eye is even now upon us, should then proclaim, 'I too, sat in judgment on the day
when you presumed to doom your fellow-worm; and I saw that the murderer was not in the dock,
but on the bench!' Oh, my lord, think well of what you do--pause ere you incur such fearful
hazard; for be assured, that for all these things God will also bring you to judgment!"

He ceased, and sank back exhausted. His fervid declamation produced a considerable impression
upon the auditory; but it soon disappeared before the calm, impressive charge of the judge,
who re-assured the startled jury, by reminding them that their duty was to honestly execute
the law, not to dispute about its justice. For himself, he said, sustained by a pure conscience,
he was quite willing to incur the hazard hinted at by the prisoner. After a careful and luminous
summing up, the jury, with very slight deliberation, returned a verdict of "Guilty."

As the word passed the lips of the foreman of the jury, a piercing shriek rang through the
court. It proceeded from a tall figure in black, who, with closely-drawn veil, had sat motionless
during the trial, just before the dock. It was the prisoner's mother. The next instant she
rose, and throwing back her veil wildly exclaimed, "He is innocent--innocent, I tell ye! I alone"--

"Mother! mother! for the love of Heaven be silent!" shouted the prisoner with frantic vehemence,
and stretching himself over the front of the dock, as if to grasp and restrain her.

"Innocent, I tell you!" continued the woman. "I--I alone am the guilty person! It was I alone
that perpetrated the deed! He knew it not, suspected it not, till it was too late. Here," she
added, drawing a sheet of paper from her bosom--"here is my confession, with each circumstance
detailed!"

As she waved it over her head, it was snatched by her son, and, swift as lightning, torn to
shreds. "She is mad! Heed her not--believe her not!" He at the same time shouted at the top
of his powerful voice, "She is distracted--mad! Now, my lord, your sentence! Come!"

The tumult and excitement in the court no language which I can employ would convey an adequate
impression of. As soon as calm was partially restored, Mrs. Bourdon was taken into custody:
the prisoner was removed; and the court adjourned, of course without passing sentence.

It was even as his mother said! Subsequent investigation, aided by her confessions, amply proved
that the fearful crime was conceived and perpetrated by her alone, in the frantic hope of securing
for her idolized son the hand and fortune of Miss Armitage. She had often been present with
him in his laboratory, and had thus become acquainted with the uses to which certain agents
could be put. She had purloined the key of the recess; and he, unfortunately too late to prevent
the perpetration of the crime, had by mere accident discovered the abstraction of the poison.
His subsequent declarations had been made for the determined purpose of saving his mother's
life by the sacrifice of his own!

The wretched woman was not reserved to fall before the justice of her country. The hand of
God smote her ere the scaffold was prepared for her. She was smitten with frenzy, and died
raving in the Metropolitan Lunatic Asylum. Alfred Bourdon, after a lengthened imprisonment,
was liberated. He called on me, by appointment, a few days previous to leaving this country
forever; and I placed in his hands a small pocket-Bible, on the fly-leaf of which was written
one word--"Ellen!" His dim eye lighted up with something of its old fire as he glanced at the
characters; he then closed the book, placed it in his bosom, and waving me a mute farewell--I
saw he durst not trust himself to speak--hastily departed. I never saw him more!

"THE WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS."

In the month of February of the year following that which witnessed the successful establishment
of the claim of Sir Harry Compton's infant son to his magnificent patrimony, Mr. Samuel Ferret
was traveling post with all the speed he could command towards Lancashire, in compliance with
a summons from Lady Compton, requesting, in urgent terms, his immediate presence at the castle.
It was wild and bitter weather, and the roads were in many places rendered dangerous, and almost
impassable, by the drifting snow. Mr. Ferret, however, pressed onwards with his habitual energy
and perseverance; and, spite of all elemental and postboy opposition, succeeded in accomplishing
his journey in much less time than, under the circumstances, could have been reasonably expected.
But swiftly as, for those slow times, he pushed on, it is necessary I should anticipate, by
a brief period, his arrival at his destination, in order to put the reader in possession of
the circumstances which had occasioned the hurried and pressing message he had received.

Two days before, as Lady Compton and her sister, who had been paying a visit to Mrs. Arlington
at the Grange, were returning home towards nine o'clock in the evening, they observed, as the
carriage turned a sharp angle of the road leading through Compton Park, a considerable number
of lighted lanterns borne hurriedly to and fro in various directions, by persons apparently
in eager but bewildered pursuit of some missing object. The carriage was stopped, and in answer
to the servants' inquiries, it was replied that Major Brandon's crazy niece had escaped from
her uncle's house; and although traced by the snow-tracks as far as the entrance to the park,
had not yet been recovered. Mrs. Brandon had offered a reward of ten pounds to whoever should
secure and reconduct her home; hence the hot pursuit of the fugitive, who, it was now supposed,
must be concealed in the shrubberies. Rumors regarding this unfortunate young lady, by no means
favorable to the character of her relatives as persons of humanity, had previously reached
Lady Compton's ears; and she determined to avail herself, if possible, of the present opportunity
to obtain a personal interview with the real or supposed lunatic. The men who had been questioned
were informed that only the castle servants could be allowed to search for the missing person,
either in the park or shrubberies; and that if there, she would be taken care of, and restored
to her friends in the morning. The coachman was then ordered to drive on; but the wheels had
not made half-a-dozen revolutions, when a loud shout at some distance, in the direction of
the park, followed by a succession of piercing screams, announced the discovery and capture
of the object of the chase. The horses were urged rapidly forward; and ere more than a minute
had elapsed, the carriage drew up within a few yards of the hunted girl and her captors. The
instant it stopped, Clara Brandon, liberating herself by a frenzied effort from the rude grasp
in which she was held by an athletic young man, sprang wildly towards it, and with passionate
intreaty implored mercy and protection. The young man, a son of Mrs. Brandon's by a former
husband, immediately re-seized her; and with fierce violence endeavored to wrench her hand
from the handle of the carriage door, which she clutched with desperate tenacity. The door
flew open, the sudden jerk disengaged her hold, and she struggled vainly in her captor's powerful
grasp. "Save me! save me!" she frantically exclaimed, as she felt herself borne off. "You who
are, they say, as kind and good as you are beautiful and happy, save me from this cruel man!"

Lady Compton, inexpressibly shocked by the piteous spectacle presented by the unhappy girl--her
scanty clothing soiled, disarrayed, and torn by the violence of her struggles; her long flaxen
tresses flowing disorderly over her face and neck in tangled dishevelment; and the pale, haggard,
wild expression of her countenance--was for a few moments incapable of speech. Her sister was
more collected: "Violet," she instantly remonstrated, "do not permit this brutal violence."

"What right has she or any one to interfere with us?" demanded the young man savagely. "This
girl is Major Brandon's ward, as well as niece, and shall return to her lawful home! Stand
back," continued he, addressing the servants, who, at a gesture from Miss Dalston, barred his
progress. "Withstand me at your peril!"

"Force her from him!" exclaimed Lady Compton, recovering her voice. "Gently! gently! I will
be answerable for her safe custody till the morning."

The athletic fellow struggled desperately; but however powerful and determined, he was only
one man against a score, nearly all the bystanders being tenants or laborers on the Compton
estates; and spite of his furious efforts, and menaces of law and vengeance, Clara was torn
from him in a twinkling, and himself hurled with some violence prostrate on the road. "Do not
let them hurt the man," said Lady Compton, as the servants placed the insensible girl in the
carriage (she had fainted); "and tell him that if he has really any legal claim to the custody
of this unfortunate person, he must prefer it in the morning."

Immediately on arrival at the castle, the escaped prisoner was conveyed to bed, and medical
aid instantly summoned. When restored to consciousness, whether from the effect of an excess
of fever producing temporary delirium, or from confirmed mental disease, her speech was altogether
wild and incoherent--the only at all consistent portions of her ravings being piteously--iterated
appeals to Lady Compton not to surrender her to her aunt in-law, Mrs. Brandon, of whom she
seemed to entertain an overpowering, indefinable dread. It was evident she had been subjected
to extremely brutal treatment--such as, in these days of improved legislation in such matters,
and greatly advanced knowledge of the origin and remedy of cerebral infirmity, would not be
permitted towards the meanest human being, much less a tenderly-nurtured, delicate female.
At length, under the influence of a composing draught, she sank gradually to sleep; and Lady
Compton having determined to rescue her, if possible, from the suspicious custody of her relatives,
and naturally apprehensive of the legal difficulties which she could not doubt would impede
the execution of her generous, if somewhat Quixotic project, resolved on at once sending off
an express for Mr. Ferret, on whose acumen and zeal she knew she could place the fullest reliance.

Clara Brandon's simple history may be briefly summed up. She was the only child of a Mr. Frederick
Brandon, who, a widower in the second year of his marriage, had since principally resided at
the "Elms," a handsome mansion and grounds which he had leased of the uncle of the late Sir
Harry Compton. At his decease, which occurred about two years previous to poor Clara's escape
from confinement, as just narrated, he bequeathed his entire fortune, between two and three
thousand pounds per annum, chiefly secured on land, to his daughter; appointed his elder brother,
Major Brandon, sole executor of his will, and guardian of his child; and in the event of her
dying before she had attained her majority--of which she wanted, at her father's death, upwards
of three years--or without lawful issue, the property was to go to the major, to be by him
willed at his pleasure. Major Brandon, whose physical and mental energies had been prematurely
broken down--he was only in his fifty-second year--either by excess or hard service in the
East, perhaps both, had married late in life the widow of a brother officer, and the mother
of a grown-up son. The lady, a woman of inflexible will, considerable remains of a somewhat
masculine beauty, and about ten years her husband's junior, held him in a state of thorough
pupilage; and, unchecked by him, devoted all her energies to bring about, by fair or foul means,
a union between Clara and her own son, a cub of some two or three-and-twenty years of age,
whose sole object in seconding his mother's views upon Clara was the acquisition of her wealth.
According to popular surmise and report, the young lady's mental infirmity had been brought
about by the persecutions she had endured at the hands of Mrs. Brandon, with a view to force
her into a marriage she detested. The most reliable authority for the truth of these rumors
was Susan Hopley, now in the service of Lady Compton, but who had lived for many years with
Mr. Frederick Brandon and his daughter. She had been discharged about six months after her
master's decease by Mrs. Major Brandon for alleged impertinence; and so thoroughly convinced
was Susan that the soon-afterwards alleged lunacy of Clara was but a juggling pretence to excuse
the restraint under which her aunt-in-law, for the furtherance of her own vile purposes, had
determined to keep her, that although out of place at the time, she devoted all the savings
of her life, between eighty and ninety pounds, to procure "justice" for the ill-used orphan.
This article, Susan was advised, could be best obtained of the lord chancellor; and proceedings
were accordingly taken before the keeper of the king's conscience, in order to change the custody
of the pretended lunatic. The affidavits filed in support of the petition were, however, so
loose and vague, and were met with such positive counter-allegations, that the application
was at once dismissed with costs; and poor Susan--rash suitor for "justice"--reduced to absolute
penury. These circumstances becoming known to Lady Compton, Susan was taken into her service;
and it was principally owing to her frequently-iterated version of the affair that Clara had
been forcibly rescued from Mrs. Brandon's son.

On the following morning the patient was much calmer, though her mind still wandered somewhat.
Fortified by the authority of the physician, who certified that to remove her, or even to expose
her to agitation, would be dangerous, if not fatal, Lady Compton not only refused to deliver
her up to Major and Mrs. Brandon, but to allow them to see her. Mrs. Brandon, in a towering
rage, posted off to the nearest magistrate, to demand the assistance of peace-officers in obtaining
possession of the person of the fugitive. Might not a vow against writing for the papers be rather
a nice one to observe during 1921? It is quite on the cards that one's duties to the State (not
too inadequately paid for) ought to be sufficiently exacting to preclude journalism at all.
There's a question of dignity too, although I hesitate to drag that in.

TO THE CHIEF OF THE POLICE.

Couldn't you (I hope I am addressing the right gentleman) arrange that before 1921 becomes 1922--twelve
whole months--a simple device is made for taxis by which a square
of red glass can be slipped over one of the lamps at night to indicate
that the cab is free?

I'm sure it wouldn't really be difficult, and the comfort of London would be enormously increased.

TO
A TAXI-DRIVER.

You will perhaps note what I have just said to the Chief of the Police. If you had any interest
in your work you would, of course, long since have fixed up something of the kind for yourself.
But let that pass. All I am suggesting to you as a 1921 amendment is that you should bank in
a more accessible part of your clothing. Waiting for change in this weather (especially with
the flag still down) can be an exasperating experience. Won't you make a resolution during
the coming year to keep your money nearer the surface?

E. V. L.

* * * * *

* * * * *

HOW TO DEAL WITH WINDBAGS.

"The address was punctured throughout with cheers."--West Indian Paper.

Mem.--Never try to talk the deaf-and-dumb language after dinner.

* * * * *

* * * * *

THE BARKER THAT MISSED FIRE.

On hearing a shuffle of feet in the porch and the clearing of little
throats, I exclaimed, "Those carols again!"

If between "those" and "carols" I inserted another word, I withdraw
it.

I went into the hall and barked like a dog.

I have often said
that, if anyone could earn a hundred pounds a week on the stage by
barking like a dog, I could. Children like to come to my house to
tea merely for the thrill of listening to my imitation. I used to
flatter myself that I could bark like a dog even better than NELSON
KEYS can imitate GERALD DU MAURIER.

I hardly gave the carol-singers
time even to mention Royal David's city before I barked. Instantly
one pair of little feet scuttled away towards the gate; then a voice
called, "Don't be silly, Alfy; come on back."

Two small girls stood
at the front-door as I opened it. One of them smiled up at me and
said, "He thinks he's going to be bit." She appeared to be amused
by the idea. Down by the gate was a small muffled figure carrying
a Chinese lantern. "Come on back, Alfy," she called again, "and let's
sing to the gentleman. You see," she explained to me in confidence,
"he's got addleoids and can't sing loud, so we let him hold the lantern."

I
was beginning to feel sorry that I had played a trick on such inoffensive
children and was about to assure them that my savage bull-terrier
was safely locked up in the kitchen when the brave little lass began
chattering again.

"My dad keeps dogs--all sorts," she told me, "and
sells them to gentlemen. So I'm used to dogs." Then she turned once
more to the lantern-bearer and commanded, "Now come on and sing, Alfy.

Mr. Ferret replied with a wink of such exceeding intelligence, that Susan at once declared
she should be ready to start in ten minutes at the latest.

"That's a good creature; and, Susan, as there's not the slightest occasion to let all the world
know who's going to run off with you, it may be as well for you to take your bundle and step
on a mile or so on the road, say to the turn, just beyond the first turnpike." Susan nodded
with brisk good-humor, and disappeared in a twinkling.

An hour afterwards, Mr. Ferret was on his way back to London, having first impressed upon Lady
Compton the necessity of immediately relieving herself of the grave responsibility she had
incurred towards Major Brandon for the safe custody of his ward, by sending her home immediately.
He promised to return on the third day from his departure; but on the nature of the measures
he intended to adopt, or the hopes he entertained of success, he was inflexibly silent; and
he moreover especially requested that no one, not even Miss Brandon, should know of Susan Hopley's
journey to the metropolis.

Mr. Ferret, immediately on his arrival in town, called at my chambers, and related with his
usual minuteness and precision as many of the foregoing particulars as he knew and thought
proper to communicate to me. For the rest I am indebted to subsequent conversations with the
different parties concerned.

"Well," said I, as soon as he had concluded, "what course do you propose to adopt?"

"I wish you to apply, on this affidavit, for a writ of habeas ad sub., to bring up the body
of Clara Brandon. Judge Bailey will be at chambers at three o'clock: it is now more than half-past
two, and I can be off on my return by four at latest."

"A writ of habeas!" I exclaimed with astonishment. "Why, what end can that answer? The lady
will be remanded, and you and I shall be laughed at for our pains."

This writ of habeas corpus "ad subjiciendum," I had better explain to the non-professional
reader, is the great prerogative writ, the operation of which is sometimes suspended by the
legislature during political panics. It is grounded on the principle that the sovereign has
at all times a right to inquire, through the judges of the superior courts, by what authority
his or her subject is held in constraint. It issues, as a matter of right, upon the filing
of an affidavit, averring that to the best of the belief of the deponent the individual sought
to be brought up is illegally confined; and it is of the essence of the proceeding, that the
person alleged to be suffering unlawful constraint should actually be brought before the "queen
herself;" that is, before one or more of the judges of the court which has issued the writ,
who, if they find the detention illegal, the only question at issue upon this writ may discharge
or bail the party. It was quite obvious, therefore, that in this case such a proceeding would
be altogether futile, as the detention in the house of her guardian, under the sanction, too,
of the lord chancellor, the ex-officio custodier of all lunatics--of a ward of alleged disordered
intellect--was clearly legal, at least prima facie so, and not to be disturbed under a habeas
ad sub. at all events.

"Perhaps so," replied Ferret quite coolly in reply to my exclamation; "but I am determined
to try every means of releasing the unfortunate young lady from the cruel thraldom in which
she is held by that harridan of an aunt-in-law. She is no more really insane than you are;
but at the same time so excitable upon certain topics, that it might be perhaps difficult to
disabuse the chancellor or a jury of the impression so industriously propagated to her prejudice.
The peremptory rejection by her guardian of young Burford's addresses, though sanctioned by
her father: you know the Burfords?"

"Of Grosvenor Street you mean--the East India director?"

"Yes, his son; and that reminds me that the declaration in that everlasting exchequer case
must be filed to-morrow. Confound it, how this flying about the country puts one out! I thought
some one had kidnapped her son, or fired Compton Castle at least. By the way, I am much deceived
if there isn't a wedding there before long."

"Indeed!"

"Yes, Miss Dalston with Sir Jasper's eldest hope."

"You don't mean it?"

"They do at all events, and that is much more to the purpose. A fine young fellow enough, and
sufficiently rich too"--

"All which rambling talk and anecdote," cried I, interrupting him, "means, if I have any skill
in reading Mr. Ferret, that that gentleman, having some ulterior purpose in view, which I cannot
for the moment divine, is determined to have this writ, and does not wish to be pestered with
any argument on the subject. Be it so: it is your affair, not mine. And now, as it is just
upon three o'clock, let me see your affidavit."

I ran it over. "Rather loose this, Mr. Ferret, but I suppose it will do."

"Well, it is rather loose, but I could not with safety sail much closer to the wind. By the
by, I think you had better first apply for a rule to stay proceedings against the bail in that
case of Turner; and after that is decided, just ask for this writ, off-hand as it were, and
as a matter of course. His lordship may not then scrutinize the affidavit quite so closely
as if he thought counsel had been brought to chambers purposely to apply for it."

"Cautious, Mr. Ferret! Well, come along, and I'll see what I can do."

The writ was obtained without difficulty; few questions were asked; and at my request the judge
made it returnable immediately. By four o'clock, Mr. Ferret, who could fortunately sleep as
well in a postchaise as in a feather-bed, was, as he had promised himself, on his road to Lancashire
once more, where he had the pleasure of serving Major Brandon personally; at the same time
tendering in due form the one shilling per mile fixed by the statute as preliminary traveling
charges. The vituperative eloquence showered upon Mr. Ferret by the Major's lady was, I afterwards
heard, extremely copious and varied, and was borne by him, as I could easily believe, with
the most philosophic composure.

In due time the parties appeared before Mr. Justice Bailey. Miss Brandon was accompanied by
her uncle, his wife, and a solicitor; and spite of everything I could urge, the judge, as I
had forseen, refused to interfere in the matter. The poor girl was dreadfully agitated, but
kept, nevertheless, her eyes upon Mr. Ferret, as the source from which, spite of what was passing
around her, effectual succor was sure to come. As for that gentleman himself, he appeared composedly
indifferent to the proceedings; and indeed, I thought, seemed rather relieved than otherwise
when they terminated. I could not comprehend him. Mrs. Brandon, the instant the case was decided,
clutched Clara's arm within hers, and, followed by her husband and the solicitor, sailed out
of the apartment with an air of triumphant disdain and pride. Miss Brandon looked round for
Ferret, but not perceiving him--he had left hastily an instant or two before--her face became
deadly pale, and the most piteous expression of hopeless despair I had ever beheld broke from
her troubled but singularly-expressive eyes. I mechanically followed, with a half-formed purpose
of remonstrating with Major Brandon in behalf of the unfortunate girl, and was by that means
soon in possession of the key to Mr. Ferret's apparently inexplicable conduct.

The Brandon party walked very fast, and I had scarcely got up with them as they were turning
out of Chancery Lane into Fleet Street, when two men, whose vocation no accustomed eye could
for an instant mistake, arrested their further progress. "This lady," said one of the men,
slightly touching Miss Brandon on the shoulder, "is, I believe, Clara Brandon?"

"Yes she is; and what of that, fellow?" demanded the major's lady with indignant emphasis.

"Not much, ma'am," replied the sheriff's officer, "when you are used to it. It is my unpleasant
duty to arrest her for the sum of eighty-seven pounds, indorsed on this writ, issued at the
suit of one Susan Hopley."

"Arrest her!" exclaimed Mrs. Brandon; "why, she is a minor!"

"Minor or major, ma'am, makes very little difference to us. She can plead that hereafter, you
know. In the meantime, miss, please to step into this coach," replied the officer, holding
the door open.

"But she's a person of unsound mind," screamed the lady, as Clara, nothing loath, sprang into
the vehicle.

"So are most people that do business with our establishment," responded the imperturbable official,
as he shut and fastened the door. "Here is my card, sir," he added, addressing the attorney,
who now came up. "You see where to find the lady, if her friends wish to give bail to the sheriff,
or, what is always more satisfactory, pay the debt and costs." He then jumped on the box, his
follower got up behind, and away drove the coach, leaving the discomfited major and his fiery
better-half in a state of the blankest bewilderment!

"Why, what is the meaning of this?" at length gasped Mrs. Brandon, fiercely addressing the
attorney, as if he, were a particeps criminis in the affair.

"The meaning, my dear madame, is, that Miss Clara Brandon is arrested for debt, and carried
off to a sponging-house; and that unless you pay the money, or file bail, she will tomorrow
be lodged in jail," replied the unmoved man of law.

"Bail! money! How are we to do either in London, away from home?" demanded the major with,
for him, much emotion.

I did not wait to hear more, but, almost suffocated with laughter at the success of Ferret's
audacious ruse, hastened over to the Temple. I was just leaving chambers for the night--about
ten o'clock I think it must have been--when Ferret, in exuberant spirits, burst into the room.

"Well, sir, what do you think now of a writ ad sub.?"

"Why, I think, Mr. Ferret," replied I, looking as serious as I could, "that yours is very sharp
practice; that the purpose you have put it to is an abuse of the writ; that the arrest is consequently
illegal; and that a judge would, upon motion, quash it with costs."

"To be sure he would: who doubts that? Let him, and welcome! In the meantime, Clara Brandon
is safe beyond the reach of all the judges or chancellors that ever wore horsehair, and that
everlasting simpleton of a major and his harridan wife roaming the metropolis like distracted
creatures; and that I take to be the real essence of the thing, whatever the big-wigs may decide
about the shells!"

"I suppose the plaintiff soon discharged her debtor out of custody?"

"Without loss of time, you may be sure. Miss Brandon, I may tell you, is with the Rev. Mr.
Derwent at Brompton. You know him: the newly-married curate of St. Margaret's that was examined
in that will case. Well him: he is an intelligent, high-principled man; and I have no doubt
that, under his and Mrs. Derwent's care, all trace of Miss Brandon's mental infirmity will
disappear long before she attains her majority next June twelvemonth; whilst the liberal sum
per month which Lady Compton will advance, will be of great service to him"

"That appears all very good. But are you sure you can effectually conceal the place of her
retreat?"

"I have no fear: the twigs that will entangle her precious guardians in the labyrinths of a
false clue are already set and limed. Before to-morrow night they will have discovered, by
means of their own wonderfully-penetrative sagacity, that Clara has been spirited over to France;
and before three months are past, the same surprising intelligence will rejoice in the discovery
that she expired in a maison de santé--fine comfortable repose, in which fool's paradise I
hope to have the honor of awakening them about next June twelvemonth, and not as at present
advised before!"

Everything fortunately turned out as Mr. Ferret anticipated; and when a few months had glided
by, Clara Brandon was a memory only, save of course to the few entrusted with the secret.

The whirligig of time continued as ever to speed on its course, and bring round in due season
its destined revenges. The health, mental and bodily, of Miss Brandon rapidly improved under
the kind and judicious treatment of Mr. and Mrs. Derwent; and long before the attainment of
her majority, were pronounced by competent authority to be thoroughly re-established. The day
following that which completed her twentyfirst year, Mr. Ferret, armed with the necessary authority,
had the pleasure of announcing to the relict of Major Brandon (he had been dead some months),
and to her brutal son, that they must forthwith depart from the home in which they, to the
very moment of his announcement, thought themselves secure; and surrender every shilling of
the property they had so long dreamt was their own. They were prostrated by the intelligence,
and proved as mean and servile in the hour of adversity, as they had been insolent and cruel
in the day of fancied success and prosperity. The pension of three hundred pounds a year for
both their lives, proffered by Miss Brandon, was eagerly accepted; and they returned to the
obscurity from which they had by accident emerged.

About six months afterwards, I had the pleasure of drawing up the marriage settlement between
Clara Brandon and Herbert Burford; and a twelvemonth after, that of standing sponsor to one
of the lustiest brats ever sprinkled at a font: none of which delightful results, if we are
to believe Mr. Ferret, would have ever been arrived at had not he, at a very critical moment,
refused to take counsel's opinion upon the virtues, capabilities, and powers contained in the
great writ of habeas corpus ad subjiciendum.

ESTHER MASON.

About forty years ago, Jabez Woodford, a foreman of shipwrights in the Plymouth dockyard, whilst
carelessly crossing one of the transverse beams of a seventy-four gun-ship, building in that
arsenal, missed his footing, fell to the bottom of the hold of the huge vessel, and was killed
on the spot. He left a widow and one child--a boy seven years of age, of placid, endearing
disposition, but weak intellect--almost in a state of destitution. He had been a coarse-tempered,
improvident man; and like too many of his class, in those days at least, dissipated the whole
of his large earnings in present sensuous indulgence, utterly careless or unmindful of the
future. Esther Woodford, who, at the time of her husband's death, scarcely numbered five-and-twenty
years, was still a remarkably comely, as well as interesting, gentle-mannered person; and moreover
had, for her station in life, received a tolerable education. Her rash, ill-assorted marriage
with Woodford had been hastily contracted when she was barely seventeen years of age, in consequence
of a jealous pique which she, for some silly reason or other, had conceived regarding Henry
Mason, an intelligent, young seafaring man, of fair prospects in life, and frank disposition,
with whom she had for some time previously, as the west-country phrase has it, "kept company,"
and who was, moreover, tenderly attached to her. Esther's married life was one long repentance
of the rash act; and the severance of the tie which bound her to an ungenial mate--after the
subsidence of the natural horror and compassion excited by the sudden and frightful nature
of the catastrophe--must have been felt as a most blessed relief. A few weeks afterwards, she
accepted an asylum with her brother-in-law, Davies, a market-gardener in the vicinity of Plymouth,
where, by persevering industry with her needle, and thrifty helpfulness in her sister's household
duties, she endeavored to compensate her kind-hearted relatives for the support of herself
and helpless, half-witted child. Mason she had never seen since the day previous to her marriage;
but she knew he was prospering in the busy world, and that, some time before her husband's
death, he had been appointed chief-mate in a first-class merchant-ship trading to the Pacific.
He had sailed about a fortnight previous to that event; and now, ten lazy months having slowly
floated past, the lover of her youth, with whom, in that last sunny day of her young life--how
distant did it seem, viewed through the long intervening vista of days and nights of grief
and tears!--she had danced so joyously beneath the flowering chestnut-trees, was once more
near her; and it was--oh happiness!--no longer a sin to think of him--no longer a crime to
recall and dwell upon the numberless proofs of the deep affection, the strong love, he had
once felt for her. Once felt! Perhaps even now!--How swiftly had the intelligence communicated
by her sympathizing sister tinted with bright hues the dark curtain of the future!

"And yet," murmured poor Esther, the flush of hope fading as suddenly as it had arisen, as
with meek sad eyes she glanced at the reflection of her features in the small oval glass suspended
above the mantel-piece--"I almost doubt, Susy, dear, if he would recognize me; even if old
feelings and old times have not long since faded from his memory"--

"Stuff and trumpery about fading away!" broke in Mrs. Davies. "Henry Mason is the same true-hearted
man he was eight years ago; and as a proof that he is, just read this letter, which I promised
him to give you. There, don't go falling into a flustration; don't now, Esther, and to-morrow
market-day and all! Don't cry, Esther," she added vehemently, but at the same time sobbing
furiously herself, and throwing her arms round her sister's neck: "but perhaps--perhaps it
will do us good, both of us!"

It may he necessary to state that I owe the foregoing particulars to the interest felt by my
wife--herself a native of beautiful Devon--in the fortunes of this humble household. Esther
was her foster-sister; and it happened that just at this period, it being vacation-time, we
were paying a visit to a family in the neighborhood. A few hours after the receipt of the welcome
letter, my wife chanced to call on Esther relative to some fancy needlework; and on her return,
I was of course favored with very full and florid details of this little bit of cottage romance;
the which I, from regard to the reader, have carefully noted down, and as briefly as possible
expressed.

We met Henry Mason with his recovered treasure on the following evening; and certainly a more
favorable specimen of the vigorous, active, bold-featured, frank-spoken British seaman I never
met with. To his comparatively excellent education--for which I understood he was indebted
to his mother, a superior woman, who, having fallen from one of the little heights of society,
had kept a school at Plymouth--in addition to his correct and temperate habits, he was indebted
for the rapid advance--he was but a few months older than Esther--he had obtained in the merchant
service. The happiness which beamed upon Esther's face did not appear to be of the exuberant,
buoyant character that kindled the ruddy cheek and ran over at the bright, honest eyes of the
hardy sailor: there seemed to mingle with it a half-doubting, trembling apprehensiveness; albeit
it was not difficult to perceive that, sorrowfully as had passed her noon of prime, an "Indian
summer" of the soul was rising upon her brightened existence, and already with its first faint
flushes lighting up her meek, doubting eyes, and pale, changing countenance. Willy, her feeble-minded
child, frisked and gambolled by their side; and altogether, a happier group than they would,
I fancy, have been difficult to find in all broad England.

The next week they were married; and one of the partners in the firm by which Mason was employed
happening to dine with us on the day of the wedding, the conversation turned for a few minutes
on the bridegroom's character and prospects.

"He has the ring of true metal in him," I remarked; "and is, I should suppose, a capital seaman?"

"A first-rate one," replied Mr. Roberts. "Indeed so high is my father's opinion of him, that
he intends to confer upon him the command of a fine brig now building for us in the Thames,
and intended for the West India trade. He possesses also singular courage and daring. Twice,
under very hazardous circumstances, he has successfully risked his life to save men who had
fallen overboard. He is altogether a skilful, gallant seaman."

"Such a man," observed another of the company, "might surely have aspired higher than to the
hand of Esther Woodford, dove-eyed and interesting as she may be?"

"Perhaps so," returned Mr. Roberts a little curtly; "though he, it seems, could not have thought
so. Indeed it is chiefly of simple-hearted, chivalrous-minded men like Mason that it can be
with general truth observed--

'On revient toujours à ses premiers amours.'"

The subject then dropped, and it was a considerable time afterwards, and under altogether altered
circumstances, when the newly-married couple once more crossed my path in life.

It was about eight months after his marriage--though he had been profitably enough employed
in the interim--that Henry Mason, in consequence of the welcome announcement that the new brig
was at last ready for her captain and cargo, arrived in London to enter upon his new appointment.

"These lodgings, Esther," said he, as he was preparing to go out, soon after breakfast, on
the morning after his arrival, "are scarcely the thing; and as I, like you, am a stranger in
Cockney-land, I had better consult some of the firm upon the subject, before we decide upon
permanent ones. In the meantime, you and Willy must mind and keep in doors when I am not with
you, or I shall have one or other of you lost in this great wilderness of a city. I shall return
in two or three hours. I will order something for dinner as I go along: I have your purse.
Good-by: God bless you both."

Inquiring his way every two or three minutes, Mason presently found himself in the vicinity
of Tower Stairs. A scuffle in front of a public-house attracted his attention; and his ready
sympathies were in an instant enlisted in behalf of a young sailor, vainly struggling in the
grasp of several athletic men, and crying lustily on the gaping bystanders for help. Mason
sprang forward, caught one of the assailants by the collar, and hurled him with some violence
against the wall. A fierce outcry greeted this audacious interference with gentlemen who, in
those good old times, were but executing the law in a remarkably good old manner. Lieutenant
Donnagheu, a somewhat celebrated snapper-up of loose mariners, emerged upon the scene; and
in a few minutes was enabled to exult in the secure possession of an additional prize in the
unfortunate Henry Mason, who, too late, discovered that he had embroiled himself with a pressgang!
Desperate, frenzied were the efforts he made to extricate himself from the peril in which he
had rashly involved himself. In vain! His protestations that he was a mate, a captain, in the
merchant service, were unheeded or mocked at.

To all his remonstrances he only got the professional answer--"His majesty wants you, and that
is enough; so come along, and no more about it."

Bruised, exhausted, almost mad, he was borne off in triumph to a boat, into which he was thrust
with several others, and swiftly rowed off to a receiving-ship in the river. Even there his
assertions and protestations were of no avail. Nothing but an Admiralty order, the officer
in command candidly told him, should effect his liberation. His majesty was in need of seamen;
and he was evidently too smart a one to be deprived of the glory of serving his country. "You
must therefore," concluded the officer, as he turned laughingly upon his heel, "do as thousands
of other fine fellows have been compelled to do--'grin and bear it.'" In about three weeks
from the date of his impressment Mason found himself serving in the Mediterranean on board
the "Active" frigate, Captain Alexander Gordon, without having been permitted one opportunity
of communicating with the shore. This was certainly very sharp, but it was not the less very
common practice in those great days of triumphant battles by land and sea.

Very drearily passed the time with the bereaved wife. Her husband had promised to send home
something for dinner, and various groceries; yet hour after hour went past, and nothing arrived.
Morning flushed into noon, day faded to twilight, and still the well-known and always eager
step sounded not upon the stairs! What could have detained him from his wife, shut up, imprisoned,
as it were, in that hot, hurrying, stifling city? She feared to listen to the suggestions of
her boding heart; and with feverish restlessness ran out upon the landing, and peered over
the stairs every time a knock or ring was heard at the street-door. This strange behavior was,
it seems, noticed by the landlady of the lodging-house, and injuriously interpreted. A knock
came to the door, and that person entered to know at what time Mrs. ----, she had forgotten
the young woman's name, expected the dinner, she, the landlady, had undertaken to cook.

Esther timidly replied that her husband had promised to return in two or three hours at latest;
and that she did not comprehend his continued absence--was indeed quite alarmed about it--

"Your husband!" said the woman, glancing insolently at Esther's figure. "Are you sure he is
your husband?"

The hot blood suffused the temples of the indignant wife as she said, "This apartment, madam,
I believe is mine?"

"Oh, certainly, as long as you can pay for it;" and rudely slamming the door, the landlady
departed.

The long wretched night at last over, Esther rose with the light; and after giving her son
his breakfast from the remains of that of the day before, set off with him to the place of
business of the Messrs. Roberts. It was early, and one clerk only had as yet arrived at the
office. He informed her that Mr. Henry Mason had not been seen, and that the partners were
greatly annoyed about it, as his immediate presence was absolutely necessary.

Stunned, terrified, bewildered by the frightful calamity which she believed had befallen her,
she felt convinced that her husband had been entrapped and murdered for the sake of the money
he had about him: the wretched woman tottered back to her lodgings, and threw herself on the
bed in wild despair. What was to be done for food even for her boy? Her husband had not only
his pocket-book with him containing his larger money, but had taken her purse! She was alone
and penniless in a strange city! The hungry wailings of her witless child towards evening at
length aroused her from the stupor of despair into which she had fallen. The miserable resource
of pawning occurred to her: she could at least, by pledging a part of her wardrobe, procure
sustenance for her child till she could hear from her sister; and with trembling hands she
began arranging a bundle of such things as she could best spare, when the landlady abruptly
entered the room, with a peremptory demand--as her husband was not returned, and did not appear
likely to do so--for a month's rent in advance, that being the term the apartments were engaged
for. The tears, entreaties, expostulations of the miserable wife were of no avail. Not one
article, the woman declared, should leave her house till her claim was settled. She affected
to doubt, perhaps really did so, that Esther was married; and hinted coarsely at an enforcement
of the laws against persons who had no visible means of subsistence. In a paroxysm of despair,
the unhappy woman rushed out of the house; and accompanied by her hungry child, again sought
the counting-house of the Messrs. Roberts. She was now as much too late as she had been too
early in the morning: the partners and clerks had gone, and she appears to have been treated
with some rudeness by the porter, who was closing the premises when she arrived. Possibly the
wildness of her looks, and the incoherence of her speech and manner, produced an impression
unfavorable to her. Retracing her steps--penniless, hungry, sick at heart--she thought, as
she afterwards declared, that she recognized my wife in one of the numerous ladies seated before
the counters of a fashionable shop in one of the busiest thoroughfares. She entered, and not
till she approached close to the lady discovered her mistake. She turned despairingly away;
when a piece of rich lace, lying apparently unheeded on the counter, met her eye, and a dreadful
suggestion crossed her fevered brain; here at least was the means of procuring food for her
wailing child. She glanced hastily and fearfully round. No eye, she thought, observed her;
and, horror of horrors! a moment afterwards she had concealed the lace beneath her shawl, and
with tottering feet was hastily leaving the shop. She had not taken half-a-dozen steps when
a heavy hand was laid upon her shoulder, and a voice, as of a serpent hissing in her ear, commanded
her to restore the lace she had stolen. Transfixed with shame and terror, she stood rooted
to the spot, and the lace fell on the floor.

"Fetch an officer," said the harsh voice, addressing one of the shopmen.

"No--no--no!" screamed the wretched woman, falling on her knees in wild supplication. "For
my child's sake--in mercy of the innocent babe as yet unborn--pity and forgive me!"

The harsh order was iterated; and Esther Mason, fainting with shame and agony, was conveyed
to the prison in Giltspur Street. The next day she was fully committed to Newgate on the capital
charge of privately stealing in a shop to the value of five pounds. A few hours after her incarceration
within those terrible walls, she was prematurely delivered of a female child.

I have no moral doubt whatever, I never have had, that at the time of the committal of the
felonious act, the intellect of Esther Mason was disordered. Any other supposition is inconsistent
with the whole tenor of her previous life and character "Lead us not into temptation" is indeed
the holiest, because the humblest prayer.

Three weeks had elapsed before the first intimation of these events reached me, in a note from
the chaplain of Newgate, an excellent, kind-hearted man, to whom Mrs. Mason had confided her
sad story. I immediately hastened to the prison; and in a long interview with her, elicited
the foregoing statement. I readily assured her that all which legal skill could do to extricate
her from the awful position in which she stood, the gravity of which I did not affect to conceal,
should be done. The offence with which she was charged had supplied the scaffold with numberless
victims; and tradesmen were more than ever clamorous for the stern execution of a law which,
spite of experience, they still regarded as the only safeguard of their property. My wife was
overwhelmed with grief; and in her anxiety to save her unhappy foster-sister, sought, without
my knowledge, an interview with the prosecutor, in the hope of inducing him not to press the
charge. Her efforts were unavailing. He had suffered much, he said, from such practices, and
was "upon principle" determined to make an example of every offender he could catch. As to
the plea that the husband had been forcibly carried off by a pressgang, it was absurd; for
what would become of the property of tradesmen if the wife of every sailor so entrapped were
to be allowed to plunder shops with impunity? This magnificent reasoning was of course unanswerable;
and the rebuked petitioner abandoned her bootless errand in despair. Messrs. Roberts, I should
have mentioned, had by some accident discovered the nature of the misfortune which had befallen
their officer, and had already made urgent application to the Admiralty for his release.

The Old Bailey sessions did not come on for some time: I, however, took care to secure at once,
as I did not myself practice in that court, the highest talent which its bar afforded. Willy,
who had been placed in a workhouse by the authorities, we had properly taken care of till he
could be restored to his mother; or, in the event of her conviction, to his relatives in Devonshire.

The sessions were at last on: a "true bill" against Esther Mason for shoplifting, as it was
popularly termed, was unhesitatingly found, and with a heavy heart I wended my way to the court
to watch the proceedings. A few minutes after I entered, Mr. Justice Le Blanc and Mr. Baron
Wood, who had assisted at an important case of stockjobbing conspiracy, just over, left the
bench: the learned recorder being doubtless considered quite equal to the trial of a mere capital
charge of theft.

The prisoner was placed in the dock; but try as I might, I could not look at her. It happened
to be a calm bright summer day; the air, as if in mockery of those death-sessions, humming
with busy, lusty life; so that, sitting with my back to the prisoner, I could, as it were,
read her demeanor in the shadow thrown by her figure on the opposite sun-lighted wall. There
she stood, during the brief moments which sealed her earthly doom, with downcast eyes and utterly
dejected posture; her thin fingers playing mechanically with the flowers and sweet-scented
herbs spread scantily before her. The trial was very brief: the evidence, emphatically conclusive,
was confidently given, and vainly cross-examined. Nothing remained but an elaborate ad misericordiam
excusative defence, which had been prepared by me, and which the prisoner begged her counsel
might be allowed to read. This was of course refused; the recorder remarking, they might as
well allow counsel for felons to address juries, as read defences; and that, as every practical
man knew, would be utterly subversive of the due administration of justice. The clerk of the
court would read the paper, if the prisoner felt too agitated to do so. This was done; and
very vilely done. The clerk, I dare say, read as well as he was able; but old, near-sighted,
and possessed of anything but a clear enunciation, what could be expected? The defence, so
read, produced not the slightest effect either on the court or jury. The recorder briefly commented
on the conclusiveness of the evidence for the prosecution; and the jury, in the same brief,
business-like manner, returned a verdict of Guilty.

"What have you to say," demanded the clerk, "why sentence of death should not be pronounced
upon you, according to law?"

The shadow started convulsively as the terrible words fell from the man's lips; and I saw that
the suddenly-upraised eyes of the prisoner were fastened on the face of the fearful questioner.
The lips, too, appeared to move; but no sound reached my ears.

"Speak, woman," said the recorder; "if you have anything to urge before sentence is pronounced."

I started up, and turning to the prisoner, besought her in hurried accents to speak. "Remind
them of the infant at your breast--your husband"--

"Who is that conferring with the prisoner?" demanded the judge in an angry voice.

I turned, and confronted him with a look as cold and haughty as his own. He did not think proper
to pursue the inquiry further; and after muttering something about the necessity of not interrupting
the proceedings of the court, again asked the prisoner if she had anything to urge.

"Not for myself--not for my sake," at last faintly murmured the trembling woman; "but for that
of my poor dear infant--my poor witless boy! I do not think, sir, I was in my right mind. I
was starving. I was friendless. My husband, too, whom you have heard"--She stopped abruptly;
a choking sob struggled in her throat; and but for the supporting arm of one of the turnkeys,
she would have fallen to the ground.

"Unhappy, guilty woman," said the recorder, with the coolness of a demon, "the plea of insanity
you would set up is utterly untenable. Your husband, it seems, is serving his majesty in the
royal navy; defending his country, whilst his wife was breaking its laws, by the commission
of a crime which, but for the stern repression of the law, would sap the foundations of the
security of property, and"--

I could endure no more. The atmosphere of the court seemed to stifle me; and I rushed for relief
into the open air. Before, however, I had reached the street, a long, piercing scream informed
me that the learned judge had done his duty.

No effort was spared during the interval which elapsed previous to the recorder presenting
his report to the privy-counsel--a peculiar privilege at that time attached to the office--to
procure a mitigation of the sentence. A petition, setting forth the peculiar circumstances
of the case, was carefully prepared; and by the indefatigable exertions of an excellent Quaker
gentleman--whom, as he is still alive, and might not choose to have his name blazoned to the
world, I will call William Friend--was soon very numerously signed. The prosecutor, however,
obstinately refused to attach his name to the document; and the absence of his signature--so
strangely did men reason on such matters in those days--would, it was feared, weigh heavily
against the success of the petition. The amiable and enlightened Sir Samuel Romilly not only
attached his name, but aided us zealously by his advice and influence. In short, nothing was
omitted that appeared likely to attain the desired object.

Two days before the petition was to be forwarded to the proper quarter, Henry Mason arrived
in England, the exertions of his employers having procured his discharge. The "Active" was
one of Captain Hoste's squadron, which obtained the celebrated victory off Lissa, over the
Franco-Venetian fleet commanded by Admiral Dobourdieu. Henry Mason, it appeared by the testimonials
of the captain and officers of his ship, had greatly distinguished himself in the action. We
inclosed these papers with the petition; and then, having done all in our power, awaited with
anxious impatience the result of the recorder's report. It was announced to me, as I was sitting
somewhat later than usual at chambers, by Mr. William Friend. The judgment to die was confirmed!
All our representations had not sufficed to counterbalance the supposed necessity of exhibiting
terrible examples of the fate awaiting the perpetrators of an offence said to be greatly on
the increase. Excellent William Friend wept like a child as he made the announcement.

There are many persons alive who recollect this horrible tragedy--this national disgrace--this
act of gross barbarity on the part of the great personage, who, first having carried off the
poor woman's husband, left her to die for an act the very consequence of that robbery. Who
among the spectators can ever forget that heart-rending scene--the hangman taking the baby
from the breast of the wretched creature just before he put her to death! But let us not rake
up these terrible reminiscences. Let us hope that the truly guilty are forgiven. And let us
take consolation from reflecting that this event led the great Romilly to enter on his celebrated
career as a reformer of the criminal law.

The remains of Esther Mason were obtained from the Newgate officials, and quietly interred
in St. Sepulchre's church-yard. A plain slab, with her name only plainly chiselled upon it,
was some time afterwards placed above the grave. A few years ago I attended a funeral in the
same grave-yard; and after a slight search, discovered the spot. The inscription, though of
course much worn, was still quite legible.

I had not seen Henry Mason since his return; but I was glad to hear from Mr. William Friend
that, after the first passionate burst of rage and grief had subsided, he had, apparently at
least, thanks to the tender and pious expostulations of his wife--with whom, by the kind intervention
of the sheriffs, he was permitted long and frequent interviews--settled down into calmness
and resignation. One thing only he would not bear to hear even from her, and that was any admission
that she had been guilty of, even the slightest offence. A hint of the kind, however unintentional,
would throw him into a paroxysm of fury; and the subject was consequently in his presence studiously
avoided.

A few days after the execution, Mr. William Friend called on me just after breakfast, accompanied
by the bereaved husband. I never saw so changed a man. All the warm kindliness of his nature
had vanished, and was replaced by a gloomy fierce austerity, altogether painful to contemplate.

"Well, sir," said he, as he barely touched my proffered hand, "they have killed her, you see,
spite of all you could say or do. It much availed me, too, that I had helped to win their boasted
victories;" and he laughed with savage bitterness.

"Henry--Henry!" exclaimed William Friend, in a reproving accent.

"Well, well, sir," rejoined Mason, impatiently, "you are a good man, and have of course your
own notions on these matters; I also have mine. Or, perhaps, you think it is only the blood
of the rich and great which, shed unjustly, brings forth the iron harvest? Forgive me," he
added, checking himself. "I respect you both; but my heart is turned to stone. You do not know--none
ever knew but I--how kind, how loving, how gentle was that poor long-suffering girl."

He turned from us to hide the terrible agony which convulsed him.

"Henry," said Mr. Friend, taking him kindly by the hand, "we pity thee sincerely, as thou knowest;
but thy bitter, revengeful expressions are unchristian, sinful. The authorities whom thou,
not for the first time, railest on so wildly, acted, be sure of it, from a sense of duty; a
mistaken one, in my opinion, doubtless; still"--

"Say no more, sir," interrupted Mason. "We differ in opinion upon the subject. And now, gentlemen,
farewell. I wished to see you, sir, before I left this country forever, to thank you for your
kind, though fruitless exertions. Mr. Friend has promised to be steward for poor Willy of all
I can remit for his use. Farewell! God bless you both!" He was gone!

War soon afterwards broke out with the United States of America, and Mr. Friend discovered
that one of the most active and daring officers in the Republican navy was Henry Mason, who
had entered the American service in the maiden name of his wife; and that the large sums he
had remitted from time to time for the use of Willy, were the produce of his successful depredations
on British commerce. The instant Mr. Friend made the discovery, he refused to pollute his hands
with moneys so obtained, and declined all further agency in the matter. Mason, however, contrived
to remit through some other channel to the Davies's, with whom the boy had been placed; and
a rapid improvement in their circumstances was soon visible. These remittances ceased about
the middle of 1814; and a twelvemonth after the peace with America, we ascertained that Henry
Mason had been killed in the battle on Lake Champlain, where he had distinguished himself,
as everywhere else, by the reckless daring and furious hate with which he fought against the
country which, in his unreasoning frenzy, he accused of the murder of his wife. He was recognized
by one of his former messmates in the "Active;" who, conveyed a prisoner on board the American
commander Macdonough's ship, recognized him as he lay stretched on the deck, in the uniform
of an American naval officer; his countenance, even in death, wearing the same stormful defiant
expression which it assumed on the day that his beloved Esther perished on the scaffold.

THE MARRIAGE SETTLEMENT

"It is really time that a properly-qualified governess had charge of those girls," observed
my wife, as Mary and Kate after a more than usually boisterous romp with their papa, left the
room for bed. I may here remark, inter alia, that I once surprised a dignified and highly-distinguished
judge at a game of blindman's buff with his children, and very heartily he appeared to enjoy
it too. "It is really time that a properly-qualified governess had charge of those girls. Susan
May did very well as a nursery teacher, but they are now far beyond her control. I cannot attend
to their education, and as for you"--The sentence was concluded by a shrug of the shoulders
and a toss of the head, eloquently expressive of the degree of estimation in which my governing
powers were held.

"Time enough, surely, for that," I exclaimed, as soon as I had composed myself; for I was a
little out of breath. "They may, I think, rub along with Susan for another year or two, Mary
is but seven years of age"--

"Eight years, if you please. She was eight years old last Thursday three weeks."

"Eight years! Then we must have been married nine; Bless me, how the time has flown: it seems
scarcely so many weeks!"

"Nonsense," rejoined my wife with a sharpness of tone and a rigidity of facial muscle which,
considering the handsome compliment I had just paid her, argued, I was afraid, a foregone conclusion.
"You always have recourse to some folly of that sort whenever I am desirous of entering into
a serious consultation on family affairs."

There was some truth in this, I confess. The "consultations" which I found profitable were
not serious ones with my wife upon domestic matters; leading, as they invariably did, to a
diminution instead of an increase of the little balance at the banker's. If such a proposition
could therefore be evaded or adjourned by even an extravagant compliment, I considered it well
laid out. But the expedient, I found, was one which did not improve by use. For some time after
marriage it answered remarkably well; but each succeeding year of wedded bliss marked its rapidly-declining
efficacy.

"Well, well; go on."

"I say it is absolutely necessary that a first-rate governess should be at once engaged. Lady
Maldon has been here to-day, and she"--

"Oh, I thought it might be her new ladyship's suggestion. I wish the 'fountain of honor' was
somewhat charier of its knights and ladies, and then perhaps"--

"What, for mercy's sake, are you running on about?" interrupted the lady with peremptory emphasis.
"Fountains of honor, forsooth! One would suppose, to hear you talk in that wild, nonsensical
way, that you were addressing a bench of judges sitting in banco, instead of a sensible person
solicitous for her and your children's welfare."

"Bless the woman," thought I; "what an exalted idea she appears to have of forensic eloquence!
Proceed, my love," I continued; "there is a difference certainly; and I am all attention."

"Lady Maldon knows a young lady--a distant relative, in deed, of hers--whom she is anxious
to serve"--

"At our expense."

"How can you be so ungenerous? Edith Willoughby is the orphan daughter of the late Reverend
Mr. Willoughby, curate of Heavy Tree in Warwickshire, I believe; and was specially educated
for a first-class governess and teacher. She speaks French with the true Parisian accent, and
her Italian, Lady Maldon assures me, is pure Tuscan"--

"He-e-e-m!"

"She dances with grace and elegance; plays the harp and piano with skill and taste; is a thorough
artiste in drawing and painting; and is, moreover, very handsome--though beauty, I admit, is
an attribute which in a governess might be very well dispensed with."

"True; unless, indeed, it were catching."

I need not prolong this connubial dialogue. It is sufficient to state that Edith Willoughby
was duly installed in office on the following day; and that, much to my surprise, I found that
her qualifications for the charge she had undertaken were scarcely overcolored. She was a well-educated,
elegant, and beautiful girl, of refined and fascinating manners, and possessed of one of the
sweetest, gentlest dispositions that ever charmed and graced the family and social circle.
She was, I often thought, for her own chance of happiness, too ductile, too readily yielding
to the wishes and fancies of others. In a very short time I came to regard her as a daughter,
and with my wife and children she was speedily a prodigious favorite. Mary and Kate improved
rapidly under her judicious tuition, and I felt for once positively grateful to busy Lady Maldon
for her officious interference in my domestic arrangements.

Edith Willoughby had been domiciled with us about two years, when Mr. Harlowe, a gentleman
of good descent and fine property, had occasion to call several times at my private residence
on business relating to the purchase of a house in South Audley Street, the title to which
exhibited by the venders was not of the most satisfactory kind. On one occasion he stayed to
dine with us, and I noticed that he seemed much struck by the appearance of our beautiful and
accomplished governess. His evident emotion startled and pained me in a much higher degree
than I could have easily accounted for even to myself. Mr. Harlowe was a widower, past his
first youth certainly, but scarcely more than two or three-and-thirty years of age, wealthy,
not ill-looking, and, as far as I knew, of average character in society. Surely an excellent
match, if it should come to that, for an orphan girl rich only in fine talents and gentle affections.
But I could not think so. I disliked the man--instinctively disliked and distrusted him; for
I could assign no very positive motive for my antipathy.

"The reason why, I cannot tell, But I don't like thee, Dr. Fell."

These lines indicate an unconquerable feeling which most persons have, I presume, experienced;
and which frequently, I think, results from a kind of cumulative evidence of uncongeniality
or unworthiness, made up of a number of slight indices of character, which, separately, may
appear of little moment, but altogether, produce a strong, if undefinable, feeling of aversion.
Mr. Harlowe's manners were bland, polished, and insinuating; his conversation was sparkling
and instructive; but a cold sneer seemed to play habitually about his lips, and at times there
glanced forth a concentrated, polished ferocity--so to speak--from his eyes, revealing hard
and stony depths, which I shuddered to think a being so pure and gentle as Edith might be doomed
to sound and fathom. That he was a man of strong passions and determination of will, was testified
by every curve of his square, massive head, and every line of his full countenance.

My aversion--reasonable or otherwise, as it might be--was not shared by Miss Willoughby; and
it was soon apparent that, fascinated, intoxicated by her extreme beauty (the man was, I felt,
incapable of love in its high, generous, and spiritual sense), Mr. Harlowe had determined on
offering his hand and fortune to the unportioned orphan. He did so, and was accepted. I did
not conceal my dislike of her suitor from Edith; and my wife--who, with feminine exaggeration
of the hints I threw out, had set him down as a kind of polished human tiger--with tears intreated
her to avoid the glittering snare. We of course had neither right nor power to push our opposition
beyond friendly warning and advice; and when we found, thanks to Lady Maldon, who was vehemently
in favor of the match--to, in Edith's position, the dazzling temptation of a splendid establishment,
and to Mr. Harlowe's eloquent and impassioned pleadings--that the rich man's offer was irrevocably
accepted, we of course forebore from continuing a useless and irritating resistance. Lady Maldon
had several times very plainly intimated that our aversion to the marriage arose solely from
a selfish desire of retaining the services of her charming relative; so prone are the mean
and selfish to impute meanness and selfishness to others.

I might, however, I reflected, be of service to Miss Willoughby, by securing for her such a
marriage settlement as would place her beyond the reach of one possible consequence of caprice
and change. I spoke to Mr. Harlowe on the subject; and he, under the influence of headstrong,
eager passion, gave me, as I expected, carte blanche. I availed myself of the license so readily
afforded: a deed of settlement was drawn up, signed, sealed, and attested in duplicate the
day before the wedding; and Edith Willoughby, as far as wealth and position in society were
concerned, had undoubtedly made a surprisingly good bargain.

It happened that just as Lady Maldon, Edith Willoughby, and Mr. Harlowe were leaving my chambers
after the execution of the deed, Mr. Ferret the attorney appeared on the stairs. His hands
were full of papers, and he was, as usual, in hot haste; but he stopped abruptly as his eye
fell upon the departing visitors, looked with startled earnestness at Miss Willoughby, whom
he knew, and then glanced at Mr. Harlowe with an expression of angry surprise. That gentleman,
who did not appear to recognize the new-comer, returned his look with a supercilious, contemptuous
stare, and passed on with Edith--who had courteously saluted the inattentive Mr. Ferret--followed
by Lady Maldon. 

Lieut.-Colonel ARCHER-SHEE and Mr. ORMSBY-GORE sought the opinion of the Treasury on the transaction,
and Mr. BALDWIN replied that it was certainly usual for a Minister
to be held responsible for his expenditure, and that if subordinate
officials were thrown over by their chiefs it would be bad for the
Service.

The Lords' amendments to the Commons' amendments to the Lords' amendments
to the Government of Ireland Bill were agreed to.

Sir L. WORTHINGTON-EVANS thought to improve the occasion by a neat
little speech expressing goodwill to Ireland, and, much to his surprise,
found himself in collision with the SPEAKER, who observed that this
was not the time for First Reading speeches.

It was rather hard on Lord PEEL, as the grandson of the great Sir ROBERT, to have to sponsor
the Dyestuffs Bill. He frankly described it as "a disagreeable pill." Lord EMMOTT and other
Peers showed a strong disinclination to take their medicine, but Lord MOULTON said that the chemists--naturally
enough--were all in favour of it, and persuaded the House to swallow the bolus.

In the course of an eleventh-hour effort to destroy the Agriculture Bill Lord LINCOLNSHIRE described
the PRIME MINISTER'S Christmas motto as Tax Vobiscum; and the success of his jape served as a
partial solace for the defeat of his motion.

* * * * *
* * * * *

A WARNING FROM THE SKY. The evening of the marriage-day was anything,
I remember, but a pleasant one to me. I reached home by no means hilariously disposed, where
I was greeted, by way of revival, with the intelligence that my wife, after listening with
great energy to Lady Maldon's description of the wedding festivities for two tremendous hours,
had at last been relieved by copious hysteria, and that Mary and Kate were in a fair way--if
the exploit could be accomplished by perseverance--of crying themselves to sleep. These were
our bridal compliments; much more flattering, I imagine, if not quite so honey-accented, as
the courtly phrases with which the votaries and the victims of Hymen are alike usually greeted.

Time, business, worldly hopes and cares, the triumphs and defeats of an exciting profession,
gradually weakened the impression made upon me by the gentle virtues of Edith Willoughby; and
when, about fifteen months after the wedding, my wife informed me that she had been accosted
by Mrs. Harlowe at a shop in Bond Street, my first feeling was one of surprise, not untinged
with resentment, for what I deemed her ungrateful neglect.

"She recognized you then?" I remarked.

"Recognized me! What do you mean?"

"I thought perhaps she might have forgotten your features, as she evidently has our address."

"If you had seen," replied my wife, "how pale, how cold, how utterly desolate she looked, you
would think less hardly of her. As soon as she observed me, a slight scream escaped her; and
then she glanced eagerly and tremblingly around like a startled fawn. Her husband had passed
out of the shop to give, I think, some direction to the coachman. She tottered towards me,
and clasping me in her arms, burst into a passion of tears. "Oh, why--why," I asked as soon
as I could speak, "why have you not written to us?" "I dared not!" she gasped. "But oh tell
me, do you--does your husband remember me with kindness? Can I still reckon on his protection--his
support?" I assured her you would receive her as your own child: the whispered words had barely
passed my lips, when Mr. Harlowe, who had swiftly approached us unperceived, said, "Madam,
the carriage waits." His stern, pitiless eye glanced from his wife to me, and stiffly bowing,
he said, "Excuse me for interrupting your conversation; but time presses. Good-day." A minute
afterwards, the carriage drove off."

I was greatly shocked at this confirmation of my worst fears; and I meditated with intense
bitterness on the fate of a being of such meek tenderness exposed to the heartless brutalities
of a sated sensualist like Harlowe. But what could be done? She had chosen, deliberately, and
after warning, chosen her lot, and must accept the consequences of her choice. In all the strong
statutes, and sharp biting laws of England, there can be found no clause wherewith to shield
a woman from the "regulated" meanness and despotism of an unprincipled husband. Resignation
is the sole remedy, and therein the patient must minister to herself.

On the morning of the Sunday following Edith's brief interview with my wife, and just as we
were about to leave the house to attend divine service, a cab drove furiously up to the door,
and a violent summons by both knocker and bell announced the arrival of some strangely-impatient
visitor. I stepped out upon the drawing-room landing, and looked over the banister rail, curious
to ascertain who had honored me with so peremptory a call. The door was quickly opened, and
in ran, or rather staggered, Mrs. Harlowe, with a child in long clothes in her arms.

"Shut--shut the door!" she faintly exclaimed, as she sank on one of the hall seats. "Pray shut
the door--I am pursued!"

I hastened down, and was just in time to save her from falling on the floor. She had fainted.
I had her carried up stairs, and by the aid of proper restoratives, she gradually recovered
consciousness. The child, a girl about four months old, was seized upon by Mary and Kate, and
carried off in triumph to the nursery. Sadly changed, indeed, as by the sickness of the soul,
was poor Edith. The radiant flush of youth and hope rendering her sweet face eloquent of joy
and pride, was replaced by the cold, sad hues of wounded affections and proud despair. I could
read in her countenance, as in a book, the sad record of long months of wearing sorrow, vain
regrets, and bitter self-reproach. Her person, too, had lost its rounded, airy, graceful outline,
and had become thin and angular. Her voice, albeit, was musical and gentle as ever, as she
murmured, on recovering her senses, "You will protect me from my--from that man?" As I warmly
pressed her hand, in emphatic assurance that I would shield her against all comers, another
loud summons was heard at the door. A minute afterwards, a servant entered, and announced that
Mr. Harlowe waited for me below. I directed he should be shown into the library; and after
iterating my assurance to Edith that she was quite safe from violence beneath my roof, and
that I would presently return to hear her explanation of the affair, I went down stairs.

Mr. Harlowe, as I entered, was pacing rapidly up and down the apartment. He turned to face
me; and I thought he looked even more perturbed and anxious than vengeful and angry. He, however,
as I coldly bowed, and demanded his business with me, instantly assumed a bullying air and tone.

"Mrs. Harlowe is here: she has surreptitiously left South Audley Street in a hired cab, and
I have traced her to this house."

"Well?"

"Well! I trust it is well; and I insist that she instantly return to her home."

"Her home!"

I used the word with an expression significative only of my sense of the sort of "home" he
had provided for the gentle girl he had sworn to love and cherish; but the random shaft found
a joint in his armor at which it was not aimed. He visibly trembled, and turned pale.

"She has had time to tell you all then! But be assured, sir, that nothing she has heard or
been told, however true it may be--may be, remember, I say--can be legally substantiated except
by myself."

What could the man mean? I was fairly puzzled: but, professionally accustomed to conceal emotions
of surprise and bewilderment, I coldly replied--"I have left the lady who has sought the protection
of her true 'home,' merely to ascertain the reason of this visit."

"The reason of my visit!" he exclaimed with renewed fury: "to reconvey her to South Audley
Street. What else? If you refuse to give her up, I shall apply to the police."

I smiled, and approached the bell.

"You will not surrender her then?"

"To judicial process only: of that be assured. I have little doubt that, when I am placed in
full possession of all the facts of the case, I shall be quite able to justify my conduct."
He did not reply, and I continued: "If you choose to wait here till I have heard Edith's statement,
I will at once frankly acquaint you with my final determination."

"Be it so: and please to recollect, sir, that you have to deal with a man not easily baffled
or entrapped by legal subtlety or cunning."

I reascended to the drawing-room; and finding Edith--thanks to the ministrations, medicinal
and oral, of my bustling and indignant lady--much calmer, and thoroughly satisfied that nobody
could or should wrest her from us, begged her to relate unreservedly the cause or causes which
had led to her present position. She falteringly complied; and I listened with throbbing pulse
and burning cheeks to the sad story of her wedded wretchedness, dating from within two or three
months of the marriage; and finally consummated by a disclosure that, if provable, might consign
Harlowe to the hulks. The tears, the agony, the despair of the unhappy lady, excited in me
a savageness of feeling, an eager thirst for vengeance, which I had believed foreign to my
nature. Edith divined my thoughts, and taking my hand, said, "Never, sir, never will I appear
against him: the father of my little Helen shall never be publicly accused by me."

"You err, Edith," I rejoined; "it is a positive duty to bring so consummate a villain to justice.
He has evidently calculated on your gentleness of disposition, and must be disappointed."

I soon, however, found it was impossible to shake her resolution on this point; and I returned
with a heart full of grief and bitterness to Mr. Harlowe.

"You will oblige me, sir," I exclaimed as I entered the room, "by leaving this house immediately:
I would hold no further converse with so vile a person."

"How! Do you know to whom you presume to speak in this manner?"

"Perfectly. You are one Harlowe, who, after a few months' residence with a beautiful and amiable
girl, had extinguished the passion which induced him to offer her marriage, showered on her
every species of insult and indignity of which a cowardly and malignant nature is capable;
and who, finding that did not kill her, at length consummated, or revealed, I do not yet know
which term is most applicable, his utter baseness by causing her to be informed that his first
wife was still living."

"Upon my honor, sir, I believed, when I married Miss Willoughby, that I was a widower."

"Your honor! But except to prove that I do thoroughly know and appreciate the person I am addressing,
I will not bandy words with you. After that terrible disclosure--if, indeed, it be a disclosure,
not an invention--Ah, you start at that"

"At your insolence, sir; not at your senseless surmises."

"Time and the law will show. After, I repeat, this terrible disclosure or invention, you, not
content with obtaining from your victim's generosity a positive promise that she would not
send you to the hulks"--

"Sir, have a care."

"Pooh! I say, not content with exacting this promise from your victim, you, with your wife,
or accomplice, threatened not only to take her child from her, but to lock her up in a madhouse,
unless she subscribed a paper, confessing that she knew, when you espoused her, that you were
a married man. Now, sir, do I, or do I not, thoroughly know who and what the man is I am addressing?"

"Sir," returned Harlowe, recovering his audacity somewhat. "Spite of all your hectoring and
abuse, I defy you to obtain proof--legal proof--whether what Edith has heard is true or false.
The affair may perhaps be arranged; let her return with me."

"You know she would die first; but it is quite useless to prolong this conversation; and I
again request you to leave this house."

"If Miss Willoughby would accept an allowance"--

The cool audacity of this proposal to make me an instrument in compromising a felony exasperated
me beyond all bounds. I rang the bell violently, and desired the servant who answered it to
show Mr. Harlowe out of the house. Finding further persistence useless, the baffled villain
snatched up his hat, and with a look and gesture of rage and contempt, hurried out of the apartment.

The profession of a barrister necessarily begets habits of coolness and reflection under the
most exciting circumstances; but, I confess, that in this instance my ordinary equanimity was
so much disturbed, that it was some time before I could command sufficient composure to reason
calmly upon the strange revelations made to me by Edith, and the nature of the measures necessary
to adopt in order to clear up the mystery attaching to them. She persisted in her refusal to
have recourse to legal measures with a view to the punishment of Harlowe; and I finally determined--after
a conference with Mr. Ferret, who, having acted for the first Mrs. Harlowe, I naturally conjectured
must know something of her history and connections--to take for the present no ostensible steps
in the matter. Mr. Ferret, like myself, was persuaded that the sham resuscitation of his first
wife was a mere trick, to enable Harlowe to rid himself of the presence of a woman he no longer
cared for. "I will take an opportunity," said Mr. Ferret, "of quietly questioning Richards:
he must have known the first wife; Eleanor Wickham, I remember, was her maiden name; and if
not bought over by Harlowe--a by-no-means impossible purchase--can set us right at once. I
did not understand that the said Eleanor was at all celebrated for beauty and accomplishments,
such as you say Miss Willoughby--Mrs. Harlowe, I mean--describes. She was a native of Dorsetshire
too, I remember; and the foreign Italian accent you mention, is rarely, I fancy, picked up
in that charming county. Some flashy opera-dancer, depend upon it, whom he has contracted a
passing fancy for: a slippery gentleman certainly; but, with a little caution, we shall not
fail to trip his heels up, clever as he may be."

A stronger wrestler than either of us was upon the track of the unhappy man. Edith had not
been with us above three weeks, when one of Mr. Harlowe's servants called at my chambers to
say that his master, in consequence of a wound he had inflicted on his foot with an axe, whilst
amusing himself with cutting or pruning some trees in the grounds at Fairdown, was seriously
ill, and had expressed a wish to see me. I could not leave town; but as it was important Mr.
Harlowe should be seen, I requested Mr. Ferret to proceed to Fairdown House. He did so, and
late in the evening returned with the startling intelligence that Mr. Harlowe was dead!

"Dead!" I exclaimed, much shocked. "Are you serious?" "As a judge. He expired, about an hour
after I reached the house, of tetanus, commonly called locked-jaw. His body, by the contraction
of the muscles, was bent like a bow, and rested on his heels and the back part of his head.
He was incapable of speech long before I saw him; but there was a world of agonized expression
in his eyes!"

"Dreadful! Your journey was useless then?"

"Not precisely. I saw the pretended former wife: a splendid woman, and as much Eleanor Wickham
of Dorsetshire as I am. They mean, however, to show fight, I think; for, as I left the place,
I observed that delightful knave Richards enter the house. I took the liberty of placing seals
upon the desks and cabinets, and directed the butler and other servants to see that nothing
was disturbed or removed till Mrs. Harlowe's--the true Mrs. Harlowe's--arrival."

The funeral was to take place on the following Wednesday; and it was finally arranged that
both of us would accompany Edith to Fairdown on the day after it had taken place, and adopt
such measures as circumstances might render necessary. Mr. Ferret wrote to this effect to all
parties concerned.

On arriving at the house, I, Ferret, and Mrs. Harlowe, proceeded at once to the drawing-room,
where we found the pretended wife seated in great state, supported on one side by Mr. Richards,
and on the other by Mr. Quillet the eminent proctor. Edith was dreadfully agitated, and clung
frightened and trembling to my arm. I conducted her to a seat, and placed myself beside her,
leaving Mr. Ferret--whom so tremendous an array of law and learning, evincing a determination
to fight the matter out à l'outrance, filled with exuberant glee--to open the conference.

"Good-morning, madam," cried he, the moment he entered the room, and quite unaffected by the
lady's scornful and haughty stare: "good-morning; I am delighted to see you in such excellent
company. You do not, I hope, forget that I once had the honor of transacting business for you?"

"You had transactions of my business!" said the lady, "When, I pray you?"

"God bless me!" cried Ferret, addressing Richards, "what a charming Italian accent; and out
of Dorsetshire too!"

"Dorsetshire, sir?" exclaimed the lady.

"Ay, Dorsetshire, to be sure. Why, Mr. Richards, our respected client appears to have forgotten
her place of birth! How very extraordinary!"

Mr. Richards now interfered, to say that Mr. Ferret was apparently laboring under a strange
misapprehension. "This lady," continued he, "is Madame Giulletta Corelli."

"Whe--e--e--w!" rejoined Ferret, thrown for an instant off his balance by the suddenness of
the confession, and perhaps a little disappointed at so placable a termination of the dispute--"Giulletta
Corelli! What is the meaning of this array then?"

"I am glad, madam," said I, interposing for the first time in the conversation, "for your own
sake, that you have been advised not to persist in the senseless as well as iniquitous scheme
devised by the late Mr. Harlowe; but this being the case, I am greatly at a loss to know why
either you or these legal gentlemen are here?"

The brilliant eyes of the Italian flashed with triumphant scorn, and a smile of contemptuous
irony curled her beautiful lip as she replied--"These legal gentlemen will not have much difficulty
in explaining my right to remain in my own house."

"Your house?"

"Precisely, sir," replied Mr. Quillet. "This mansion, together with all other property, real
and personal, of which the deceased Henry Harlowe died possessed, is bequeathed by will--dated
about a month since--to this lady, Giulletta Corelli."

"A will!" exclaimed Mr. Ferret with an explosive shout, and turning to me, whilst his sharp
gray eyes danced with irrepressible mirth--"Did I not tell you so?"

"Your usual sagacity, Mr. Ferret, has not in this instance failed you. Perhaps you will permit
me to read the will? But before I do so," continued Mr. Quillet, as he drew his gold-rimmed
spectacles from their morocco sheath--"you will allow me, if you please, to state that the
legatee, delicately appreciating the position of the widow, will allow her any reasonable annuity--say
five hundred pounds per annum for life."

"Will she really though?" cried Mr. Ferret, boiling over with ecstacy. "Madam, let me beg of
you to confirm this gracious promise."

"Certainly I do."

"Capital!--glorious!" rejoined Ferret; and I thought he was about to perform a salutatory movement,
that must have brought his cranium into damaging contact with the chandelier under which he
was standing. "Is it not delightful? How every one--especially an attorney--loves a generous
giver!"

Mr. Richards appeared to be rendered somewhat uneasy by these strange demonstrations. He knew
Ferret well, and evidently suspected that something was wrong somewhere. "Perhaps, Mr. Quillet,"
said he, "you had better read the will at once."

This was done: the instrument devised in legal and minute form all the property, real and personal,
to Giulletta Corelli--a natural-born subject of his majesty, it appeared, though of foreign
parentage, and of partially foreign education.

"Allow me to say," broke in Mr. Ferret, interrupting me as I was about to speak--"allow me
to say, Mr. Richards, that that will does you credit: it is, I should say, a first-rate affair,
for a country practitioner especially. But of course you submitted the draught to counsel?"

"Certainly I did," said Richards tartly.

"No doubt--no doubt. Clearness and precision like that could only have proceeded from a master's
hand. I shall take a copy of that will, Richards, for future guidance, you may depend, the
instant it is registered in Doctors' Commons."

"Come, come, Mr. Ferret," said I; "this jesting is all very well; but it is quite time the
farce should end."

"Farce!" exclaimed Mr. Richards.

"Farce!" growled doubtful Mr. Quillet.

"Farce!" murmured the beautiful Giulletta.

"Farce!" cried Mr. Ferret. "My dear sir, it is about one of the most charming and genteel comedies
ever enacted on any stage, and the principal part, too, by one of the most charming of prima
donnas. Allow me, sir--don't interrupt me! it is too delicious to be shared; it is, indeed.
Mr. Richards, and you, Mr. Quillet, will you permit me to observe that this admirable will
has one slight defect?"

"A defect!--where--how?"

"It is really heart-breaking that so much skill and ingenuity should be thrown away; but the
fact is, gentlemen, that the excellent person who signed it had no property to bequeath!"

"How?"

"Not a shilling's worth. Allow me, sir, if you please. This piece of parchment, gentlemen,
is, I have the pleasure to inform you, a marriage settlement."

"A marriage settlement!" exclaimed both the men of law in a breath.

"A marriage settlement, by which, in the event of Mr. Harlowe's decease, his entire property
passes to his wife, in trust for the children, if any; and if not, absolutely to herself."
Ferret threw the deed on the table, and then giving way to convulsive mirth, threw himself
upon the sofa, and fairly shouted with glee.

Mr. Quillet seized the document, and, with Richards, eagerly perused it. The proctor then rose,
and bowing gravely to his astonished client, said, "The will, madam, is waste paper. You have
been deceived." He then left the apartment.

The consternation of the lady and her attorney may be conceived. Madam Corelli, giving way
to her fiery passions, vented her disappointment in passionate reproaches of the deceased;
the only effect of which was to lay bare still more clearly than before her own cupidity and
folly, and to increase Edith's painful agitation. I led her down stairs to my wife, who, I
omitted to mention, had accompanied us from town, and remained in the library with the children
during our conference. In a very short time afterwards Mr. Ferret had cleared the house of
its intrusive guests, and we had leisure to offer our condolences and congratulations to our
grateful and interesting client. It was long before Edith recovered her former gaiety and health;
and I doubt if she would ever have thoroughly regained her old cheerfulness and elasticity
of mind, had it not been for her labor of love in superintending and directing the education
of her daughter Helen, a charming girl, who fortunately inherited nothing from her father but
his wealth. The last time I remember to have danced was at Helen's wedding. She married a distinguished
Irish gentleman, with whom, and her mother, I perceive by the newspapers, she appeared at Queen
Victoria's court in Dublin, one, I am sure, of the brightest stars which glittered in that
galaxy of beauty and fashion.

THE SECOND MARRIAGE.

A busy day in the assize court at Chester, chequered, as usual, by alternate victory and defeat,
had just terminated, and I was walking briskly forth, when an attorney of rather low caste
in his profession--being principally employed as an intermediary between needy felons and the
counsel practising in the Crown Court--accosted me, and presented a brief; at the same time
tendering the fee of two guineas marked upon it.

"I am engaged to-morrow, Mr. Barnes," I exclaimed a little testily, "on the civil side: besides,
you know I very seldom take briefs in the Crown Court, even if proffered in due time; and to-morrow
will be the last day of the assize in Chester! There are plenty of unemployed counsel who will
be glad of your brief."

"It is a brief in an action of ejectment," replied the attorney--"Woodley versus Thorndyke;
and is brought to recover possession of a freehold estate now held and farmed by the defendant."

"An action of ejectment to recover possession of a freehold estate! defended, too, I know,
by a powerful bar; for I was offered a brief, but declined it. Mr. P ---- leads; and you bring
me this for the plaintiff, and at the last moment too! You must be crazed."

"I told the plaintiff and her grandfather," rejoined Mr. Barnes, "that it was too late to bespeak
counsel's attention to the case; and that the fee, all they have, with much difficulty, been
able to raise, was ridiculously small; but they insisted on my applying to you--Oh, here they are!"

We had by this time reached the street, and the attorney pointed towards two figures standing
in attitudes of anxious suspense near the gateway. It was dusk, but there was quite sufficient
light to distinguish the pale and interesting features of a young female, dressed in faded
and scanty mourning, and accompanied by a respectable-looking old man with white hair, and
a countenance deeply furrowed by age and grief.

"I told you, Miss Woodley," said the attorney, "that this gentleman would decline the brief,
especially with such a fee"--

"It is not the fee, man!" I observed, for I was somewhat moved by the appealing dejection exhibited
by the white-haired man and his timid grand-daughter; "but what chance can I have of establishing
this person's right--if right she have--to the estate she claims, thus suddenly called upon
to act without previous consultation; and utterly ignorant, except as far as this I perceive
hastily-scrawled brief will instruct me, both of the nature of the plaintiff's claim and of
the defence intended to be set up against it?"

"If you would undertake it, sir," said the young woman with a tremulous, hesitating voice and
glistening eyes, "for his sake"--and she glanced at her aged companion--"who will else be helpless,
homeless."

"The blessing of those who are ready to perish will be yours, sir," said the grandfather with
meek solemnity, "if you will lend your aid in this work of justice and mercy. We have no hope
of withstanding the masterful violence and wrong of wicked and powerful men except by the aid
of the law, which we have been taught will ever prove a strong tower of defence to those who
walk in the paths of peace and right."

The earnestness of the old man's language and manner, and the pleading gentleness of the young
woman, forcibly impressed me; and, albeit, it was a somewhat unprofessional mode of business,
I determined to hear their story from their own lips, rather than take it from the scrawled
brief, or through the verbal medium of their attorney.

"You have been truly taught," I answered; "and if really entitled to the property you claim,
I know of no masterful men that in this land of England can hinder you from obtaining possession
of it. Come to my hotel in about an hour and a-half from hence: I shall then have leisure to
hear what you have to say. This fee," I added, taking the two guineas from the hand of the
attorney, who still held the money ready for my acceptance, "you must permit me to return.
It is too much for you to pay for losing your cause; and if I gain it--but mind I do not promise
to take it into court unless I am thoroughly satisfied you have right and equity on your side--I
shall expect a much heavier one. Mr. Barnes, I will see you, if you please, early in the morning."
I then bowed, and hastened on.

Dinner was not ready when I arrived at the hotel; and during the short time I had to wait,
I more than half repented of having had anything to do with this unfortunate suit. However,
the pleadings of charity, the suggestions of human kindness, reasserted their influence; and
by the time my new clients arrived, which they did very punctually at the hour I had indicated,
I had quite regained the equanimity I had momentarily lost, and, thanks to mine host's excellent
viands and generous wine, was, for a lawyer, in a very amiable and benevolent humor indeed.

Our conference was long, anxious, and unsatisfactory. I was obliged to send for Barnes before
it concluded, in order to thoroughly ascertain the precise nature of the case intended to be
set up for the defendant, and the evidence likely to be adduced in support of it. No ray of
consolation or of hope came from that quarter. Still, the narrative I had just listened to,
bearing as it did the impress of truth and sincerity in every sentence, strongly disposed me
to believe that foul play has been practised by the other side; and I determined, at all hazards,
to go into court, though with but faint hope indeed of a present successful issue.

"It appears more than probable," I remarked on dismissing my clients, "that this will is a
fabrication; but before such a question had been put in issue before a jury, some producible
evidence of its being so should have been sought for and obtained. As it is, I can only watch
the defendant's proof of the genuineness of the instrument upon which he has obtained probate:
one or more of the attesting witnesses may, if fraud has been practised, break down under a
searching cross-examination, or incidentally perhaps disclose matter for further investigation."

"One of the attesting witnesses is, as I have already told you, dead," observed Barnes; "and
another, Elizabeth Wareing, has, I hear, to-day left the country. An affidavit to that effect
will no doubt be made to-morrow, in order to enable them to give secondary evidence of her
attestation, though, swear as they may, I have not the slightest doubt I could find her if
time were allowed, and her presence would at all avail us."

"Indeed! This is very important. Would you, Mr. Barnes, have any objection," I added, after
a few moments' reflection, "to make oath, should the turn of affairs to-morrow render your
doing so desirable, of your belief that you could, reasonable time being allowed, procure the
attendance of this woman--this Elizabeth Wareing?"

"Not the slightest: though how that would help us to invalidate the will Thorndyke claims under
I do not understand."

"Perhaps not. At all events do not fail to be early in court. The cause is the first in to-morrow's
list, remember."

The story confided to me was a very sad, and, unfortunately in many of its features, a very
common one. Ellen, the only child of the old gentleman, Thomas Ward, had early in life married
Mr. James Woodley, a wealthy yeoman, prosperously settled upon his paternal acres, which he
cultivated with great diligence and success. The issue of this marriage--a very happy one,
I was informed--was Mary Woodley, the plaintiff in the present action. Mr. Woodley, who had
now been dead something more than two years, bequeathed the whole of his property, real and
personal, to his wife, in full confidence, as he expressed himself but a few hours before he
expired, that she would amply provide for his and her child. The value of the property inherited
by Mrs. Woodley under this will amounted, according to a valuation made a few weeks after the
testator's decease, to between eight and nine thousand pounds.

Respected as a widow, comfortable in circumstances, and with a daughter to engage her affections,
Mrs. Woodley might have passed the remainder of her existence in happiness. But how frequently
do women peril and lose all by a second marriage! Such was the case with Mrs. Woodley: to the
astonishment of everybody, she threw herself away on a man almost unknown in the district--a
person of no fortune, of mean habits, and altogether unworthy of accepting as a husband. Silas
Thorndyke, to whom she thus committed her happiness, had for a short time acted as bailiff
on the farm; and no sooner did he feel himself master, than his subserviency was changed to
selfish indifference, and that gradually assumed a coarser character. He discovered that the
property, by the will of Mr. Woodley, was no secured against every chance or casualty to the
use and enjoyment of his wife, that it not only did not pass by marriage to the new bridegroom,
but she was unable to alienate or divest herself of any portion of it during life. She could,
however, dispose of it by will; but in the event of her dying intestate, the whole descended
to her daughter, Mary Woodley.

Incredibly savage was Thorndyke when he made that discovery; and bitter and incessant were
the indignities to which he subjected his unfortunate wife, for the avowed purpose of forcing
her to make a will entirely in his favor, and of course disinheriting her daughter. These persecutions
failed of their object. An unexpected, quiet, passive, but unconquerable resistance, was opposed
by the, in all other things, cowed and submissive woman, to this demand of her domineering
husband. Her failing health--for gently nurtured and tenderly cherished as she had ever been,
the callous brutality of her husband soon told upon the unhappy creature--warned her that Mary
would soon be an orphan, and that upon her firmness it depended whether the child of him to
whose memory she had been, so fatally for herself, unfaithful, should be cast homeless and
penniless upon the world, or inherit the wealth to which, by every principle of right and equity,
she was entitled. Come what may, this trust at least should not, she mentally resolved, be
betrayed or paltered with. Every imaginable expedient to vanquish her resolution was resorted
to. Thorndyke picked a quarrel with Ward her father, who had lived at Dale Farm since the morrow
of her marriage with Woodley, and the old gentleman was compelled to leave, and take up his
abode with a distant and somewhat needy relative. Next Edward Wilford, the only son of a neighboring
and prosperous farmer, who had been betrothed to Mary Woodley several months before her father's
death, was brutally insulted, and forbidden the house. All, however, failed to shake the mother's
resolution; and at length, finding all his efforts fruitless, Thorndyke appeared to yield the
point, and upon this subject at least ceased to harass his unfortunate victim.

Frequent private conferences were now held between Thorndyke, his two daughters, and Elizabeth
Wareing--a woman approaching middle-age, whom, under the specious pretence that Mrs. Thorndyke's
increasing ailments rendered the services of an experienced matron indispensable, he had lately
installed at the farm. It was quite evident to both the mother and daughter that a much greater
degree of intimacy subsisted between the master and housekeeper than their relative positions
warranted; and from some expressions heedlessly dropped by the woman, they suspected them to
have been once on terms of confidential intimacy. Thorndyke, I should have mentioned, was not
a native of these parts: he had answered Mr. Woodley's advertisement for a bailiff, and his
testimonials appearing satisfactory, he had been somewhat precipitately engaged. A young man,
calling himself Edward Wareing, the son of Elizabeth Wareing, and said to be engaged in an
attorney's office in Liverpool, was also a not unfrequent visitor at Dale Farm; and once he
had the insolent presumption to address a note to Mary Woodley, formally tendering his hand
and fortune! This, however, did not suit Mr. Thorndyke's views, and Mr. Edward Wareing was
very effectually rebuked and silenced by his proposed father-in-law.

Mrs. Thorndyke's health rapidly declined. The woman Wareing, touched possibly by sympathy or
remorse, exhibited considerable tenderness and compassion towards the invalid; made her nourishing
drinks, and administered the medicine prescribed by the village practitioner--who, after much
delay and pooh, poohing by Thorndyke, had been called in--with her own hands. About three weeks
previous to Mrs. Thorndyke's death, a sort of reconciliation was patched up through her instrumentality
between the husband and wife; and an unwonted expression of kindness and compassion, real or
simulated, sat upon Thorndyke's features every time he approached the dying woman.

The sands of life ebbed swiftly with Mrs. Thorndyke. Infolded in the gentle but deadly embrace
with which consumption seizes its victims, she wasted rapidly away; and, most perplexing symptoms
of all, violent retchings and nausea, especially after taking her medicine--which, according
to Davis, the village surgeon, was invariable of a sedative character--aggravated and confirmed
the fatal disease which was hurrying her to the tomb.

Not once during this last illness could Mary Woodley, by chance or stratagem, obtain a moment's
private interview with her mother, until a few minutes before her decease. Until then, under
one pretence or another, either Elizabeth Wareing, one of Thorndyke's daughters, or Thorndyke
himself, was always present in the sick-chamber. It was evening: darkness had for some time
fallen: no light had yet been taken into the dying woman's apartment; and the pale starlight
which faintly illumined the room served, as Mary Woodley softly approached on tiptoe to the
bedside of her, as she supposed, sleeping parent, but to deepen by defining the shadows thrown
by the full, heavy hangings, and the old massive furniture. Gently, and with a beating heart,
Mary Woodley drew back the bed-curtain nearest the window. The feeble, uncertain light flickered
upon the countenance, distinct in its mortal paleness, of her parent: the eyes recognized her,
and a glance of infinite tenderness gleamed for an instant in the rapidly-darkening orbs: the
right arm essayed to lift itself, as for one fast, last embrace. Vainly! Love, love only, was
strong, stronger than death, in the expiring mother's heart, and the arm fell feebly back on
the bedclothes. Mary Woodley bent down in eager grief, for she felt instinctively that the
bitter hour at last was come: their lips met, and the last accents of the mother murmured,
"Beloved Mary, I--I have been true to you--no will--no"--A slight tremor shook her frame: the
spirit that looked in love from the windows of the eyes departed on its heavenward journey,
and the unconscious shell only of what had once been her mother remained in the sobbing daughter's
arms.

I will not deny that this narrative, which I feel I have but coldly and feebly rendered from
its earnest, tearful tenderness, as related by Mary Woodley, affected me considerably--case-hardened,
as, to use an old bar-pun, we barristers are supposed to be; nor will the reader be surprised
to hear that suspicions, graver even than those which pointed to forgery, were evoked by the
sad history. Much musing upon the strange circumstances thus disclosed, and profoundly cogitative
on the best mode of action to be pursued, the "small hours," the first of them at least, surprised
me in my arm-chair. I started up, and hastened to bed, well knowing from experience that a
sleepless vigil is a wretched preparative for a morrow of active exertion, whether of mind or body.

I was betimes in court the next morning, and Mr. Barnes, proud as a peacock of figuring as
an attorney in an important civil suit, was soon at my side. The case had excited more interest
than I had supposed, and the court was very early filled, Mary Woodley and her grandfather
soon arrived; and a murmur of commiseration ran through the auditory as they took their seats
by the side of Barnes. There was a strong bar arrayed against us; and Mr. Silas Thorndyke,
I noticed, was extremely busy and important with whisperings and suggestions to his solicitor
and counsel--received, of course, as such meaningless familiarities usually are, with barely
civil indifference.

Twelve common jurors were called and sworn well and truly to try the issue, and I arose amidst
breathless silence to address them. I at once frankly stated the circumstances under which
the brief had come into my hands, and observed, that if, for lack of advised preparation, the
plaintiff's case failed on that day, another trial, under favor of the court above, would,
I doubt not, at no distant period of time reverse the possibly at present unfavorable decision.
"My learned friends on the other side," I continued, "smile at this qualified admission of
mine: let them do so. If they apparently establish to-day the validity of a will which strips
an only child of the inheritance bequeathed by her father, they will, I tell them emphatically,
have obtained but a temporary triumph for a person who--if I, if you, gentlemen of the jury,
are to believe the case intended to be set up as a bar to the plantiff's claim--has succeeded
by the grossest brutality, the most atrocious devices, in bending the mind of the deceased
Mrs. Thorndyke to his selfish purposes. My learned friend need not interrupt me; I shall pursue
these observations for the present no further--merely adding that I, that his lordship, that
you, gentlemen of the jury, will require of him the strictest proof--proof clear as light--that
the instrument upon which he relies to defeat the equitable, the righteous claim of the young
and amiable person by my side, is genuine, and not, as I verily believe "--I looked, as I spoke,
full in the face of Thorndyke--"FORGED."

"My lord," exclaimed the opposing counsel, "this is really insufferable!"

His lordship, however, did not interpose; and I went on to relate, in the most telling manner
of which I was capable, the history of the deceased Mrs. Thorndyke's first and second marriages;
the harmony and happiness of the first--the wretchedness and cruelty which characterized the
second. I narrated also the dying words of Mrs. Thorndyke to her daughter, though repeatedly
interrupted by the defendant's counsel, who manifested great indignation that a statement unsusceptible
of legal proof should be addressed to the court and jury. My address concluded, I put in James
Woodley's will; and, as the opposing counsel did not dispute its validity, nor require proof
of Mary Woodley's identity, I intimated that the plaintiff's case was closed.

The speech for the defendant was calm and guarded. It threw, or rather attempted to throw,
discredit on the death-bed "fiction," got up, Mr. P ---- said, simply with a view to effect;
and he concluded by averring that he should be able to establish the genuineness of the will
of Ellen Thorndyke, now produced, by irresistible evidence. That done, however much the jury
might wish the property had been otherwise disposed of, they would of course return a verdict
in accordance with their oaths and the law of the land.

The first witness called was Thomas Headley, a smith, residing near Dale Farm. He swore positively
that the late Mrs. Thorndyke, whom he knew well, had cheerfully signed the will now produced,
after it had been deliberately read over to her by her husband about a fortnight before her
death. Silas Thorndyke, John Cummins, Elizabeth Wareing, and witness, were the only persons
present. Mrs. Thorndyke expressed confidence that her husband would provide for Mary Woodley.

"And so I will," said sleek Silas, rising up and looking round upon the auditory. "If she will
return, I will be a father to her."

No look, no sound of sympathy or approval, greeted this generous declaration, and he sat down
again not a little disconcerted.

I asked this burly, half-drunken witness but one question--"When is your marriage with Rebecca
Thorndyke, the defendant's eldest daughter, to be celebrated?"

"I don't know, Mr. Lawyer; perhaps never."

"That will do; you can go down."

Mr. P ---- now rose to state that his client was unable to produce Elizabeth Wareing, another
of the attesting witnesses to the will, in court. No suspicion that any opposition to the solemn
testament made by the deceased Mrs. Thorndyke would be attempted, had been entertained; and
the woman, unaware that her testimony would be required, had left that part of the country.
Every effort had been made by the defendant to discover her abode without effect. It was believed
she had gone to America, where she had relatives. The defendant had filed an affidavit setting
forth these facts, and it was now prayed that secondary evidence to establish the genuineness
of Elizabeth Wareing's attesting signature should be admitted.

I of course vehemently opposed this demand, and broadly hinted that the witness was purposely
kept out of the way.

"Will my learned friend," said Mr. P ---- with one of his sliest sneers, "inform us what motive
the defendant could possibly have to keep back a witness so necessary to him?"

"Elizabeth Wareing," I curtly replied, "may not, upon reflection, be deemed a safe witness
to subject to the ordeal of a cross-examination. But to settle the matter, my lord," I exclaimed,
"I have here an affidavit of the plaintiff's attorney, in which he states that he has no doubt
of being able to find this important witness if time be allowed him for the purpose; the defendant
of course undertaking to call her when produced."

A tremendous clamor of counsel hereupon ensued, and fierce and angry grew the war of words.
The hubbub was at last terminated by the judge recommending that, under the circumstances,
"a juror should be withdrawn." This suggestion, after some demur, was agreed to. One of the
jurors was whispered to come out of the box; then the clerk of the court exclaimed, "My lord,
there are only eleven men on the jury;" and by the aid of this venerable, if clumsy expedient,
the cause of Woodley versus Thorndyke was de facto adjourned to a future day.

I had not long returned to the hotel, when I was waited upon by Mr. Wilford, senior, the father
of the young man who had been forbidden to visit Dale Farm by Thorndyke. His son, he informed
me, was ill from chagrin and anxiety--confined to his bed indeed; and Mary Woodley had refused,
it seemed, to accept pecuniary aid from either the father or the son. Would I endeavor to terminate
the estrangement which had for some time unhappily existed, and persuade her to accept his,
Wilford senior's, freely-offered purse and services? I instantly accepted both the mission
and the large sum which the excellent man tendered. A part of the money I gave Barnes to stimulate
his exertions, and the rest I placed in the hand of Mary Woodley's grandpapa, with a friendly
admonition to him not to allow his grandchild to make a fool of herself; an exhortation which
produced its effect in due season.

Summer passed away, autumn had come and gone, and the winter assizes were once more upon us.
Regular proceedings had been taken, and the action in ejectment of Woodley versus Thorndyke
was once more on the cause list of the Chester circuit court, marked this time as a special
jury case. Indefatigable as Mr. Barnes had been in his search for Elizabeth Wareing, not the
slightest trace of her could he discover; and I went into court, therefore, with but slight
expectation of invalidating the, as I fully believed, fictitious will. We had, however, obtained
a good deal of information relative to the former history not only of the absent Mrs. Wareing,
but of Thorndyke himself; and it was quite within the range of probabilities that something
might come out, enabling me to use that knowledge to good purpose. The plaintiff and old Mr.
Ward were seated in court beside Mr. Barnes, as on the former abortive trial; but Mary Woodley
had, fortunately for herself, lost much of the interest which attaches to female comeliness
and grace when associated in the mind of the spectator with undeserved calamity and sorrow.
The black dress which she still wore--the orthodox twelve months of mourning for a parent had
not yet quite elapsed--was now fresh, and of fine quality, and the pale lilies of her face
were interspersed with delicate roses; whilst by her side sat Mr. John Wilford, as happy-looking
as if no such things as perjurers, forgers, or adverse verdicts existed to disturb the peace
of the glad world. Altogether, we were decidedly less interesting than on the former occasion.
Edward Wareing, I must not omit to add, was, greatly to our surprise, present. He sat, in great
apparent amity, by the side of Thorndyke.

It was late in the afternoon, and twilight was gradually stealing over the dingy court, when
the case was called. The special jury answered to their names, were duly sworn, and then nearly
the same preliminary speeches and admissions were made and put in as on the previous occasion.
Thomas Headley, the first witness called in support of the pretended will, underwent a rigorous
cross-examination; but I was unable to extract anything of importance from him.

"And now," said the defendant's leading counsel, "let me ask my learned friend if he has succeeded
in obtaining the attendance of Elizabeth Wareing?"

I was of course obliged to confess that we had been unable to find her; and the judge remarked
that in that ease he could receive secondary evidence in proof of her attestation of the will.

A whispered but manifestly eager conference here took place between the defendant and his counsel,
occasionally joined in by Edward Wareing. There appeared to be indecision or hesitation in
their deliberations; but at last Mr. P ---- rose, and with some ostentation of manner addressed
the court.

"In the discharge of my duty to the defendant in this action, my lord, upon whose fair fame
much undeserved obloquy has been cast by the speeches of the plaintiff's counsel--speeches
insupported by a shadow of evidence--I have to state that, anxious above all things to stand
perfectly justified before his neighbors and society, he has, at great trouble and expense,
obtained the presence here to-day of the witness Elizabeth Wareing. She had gone to reside
in France with a respectable English family in the situation of housekeeper. We shall now place
her in the witness-box, and having done so, I trust we shall hear no more of the slanderous
imputations so freely lavished upon my client. Call Elizabeth Wareing into court."

A movement of surprise and curiosity agitated the entire auditory at this announcement. Mr.
Silas Thorndyke's naturally cadaverous countenance assumed an ashy hue, spite of his efforts
to appear easy and jubilant; and for the first time since the commencement of the proceedings
I entertained the hope of a successful issue.

Mrs. Wareing appeared in answer to the call, and was duly sworn "to tell the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth." She was a good-looking woman, of perhaps forty years of
age, and bore a striking resemblance to her son. She rapidly, smoothly, and unhesitatingly
confirmed the evidence of Headley to a tittle. She trembled, I observed, excessively; and on
the examining counsel intimating that he had no more questions to ask, turned hastily to leave
the box.

"Stay--stay, my good woman," I exclaimed; "you and I must have some talk together before we part."

She started, and looked at me with frightened earnestness; and then her nervous glances stole
towards Mr. Silas Thorndyke. There was no comfort there: in his countenance she only saw the
reflex of the agitation and anxiety which marked her own. Sleek Silas, I could see, already
repented of the rash move he had made, and would have given a good deal to get his witness
safely and quietly out of court.

It was now nearly dark, and observing that it was necessary the court and jury should see as
well as hear the witness whilst under examination, I requested that lights should be brought
in. This was done. Two candles were placed in front of the witness-box, one on each side of
Mrs. Wareing; a few others were disposed about the bench and jury desks. The effect of this
partial lighting of the gloomy old court was, that the witness stood out in strong and bright
relief from the surrounding shadows, rendering the minutest change or play of her features
distinctly visible. Mr. Silas Thorndyke was, from his position, thrown entirely into the shade,
and any telegraphing between him and the witness was thus rendered impossible. This preparation,
as if for some extraordinary and solemn purpose, together with the profound silence which reigned
in the court, told fearfully, as I expected, upon the nerves of Mrs. Elizabeth Wareing. She
already seemed as if about to swoon with agitation and ill-defined alarm.

"Pray, madam," said I, "is your name Wareing or Tucker?"

She did not answer, and I repeated the question. "Tucker," she at last replied in a tremulous
whisper.

"I thought so. And pray, Mrs. Tucker, were you ever 'in trouble' in London for robbing your
lodgings?"

I thought she attempted to answer, but no sound passed her lips. One of the ushers of the court
handed her a glass of water at my suggestion, and she seemed to recover somewhat. I pressed
my question; and at last she replied in the same low, agitated voice, "Yes, I have been."

"I know you have. Mr. Silas Thorndyke, I believe, was your bail on that occasion, and the matter
was, I understand, compromised--arranged--at all events the prosecution was not pressed. Is
not that so?"

"Yes--no--yes."

"Very well: either answer will do. You lived also, I believe, with Mr. Thorndyke, as his housekeeper
of course, when he was in business as a concocter and vender of infallible drugs and pills?"

"Yes."

"He was held to be skilful in the preparation of drugs, was he not--well-versed in their properties?"

"Yes--I believe so--I do not know. Why am I asked such questions?"

"You will know presently. And now, woman, answer the question I am about to put to you, as
you will be compelled to answer it to God at the last great day--What was the nature of the
drug which you or he mixed with the medicine prescribed for the late Mrs. Thorndyke?"

A spasmodic shriek, checked by a desperate effort, partially escaped her, and she stood fixedly
gazing with starting eyes in my face.

The profoundest silence reigned in the court as I iterated the question.

"You must answer, woman," said the judge sternly, "unless you know your answer will criminate
yourself."

The witness looked wildly round the court, as if in search of counsel or sympathy; but encountering
none but frowning and eager faces--Thorndyke she could not discern in the darkness--she became
giddy and panic-stricken, and seemed to lose all presence of mind.

"He--he--he," she at last gasped--"he mixed it. I do not know--But how," she added, pushing
back her hair, and pressing her hands against her hot temples, "can this be? What can it mean?"

A movement amongst the bystanders just at this moment attracted the notice of the judge, and
he immediately exclaimed, "The defendant must not leave the court!" An officer placed himself
beside the wretched murderer as well as forger, and I resumed the cross-examination of the witness.

"Now, Mrs. Tucker, please to look at this letter." (It was that which had been addressed to
Mary Woodley by her son.) "That, I believe, is your son's handwriting?"

"Yes."

"The body of this will has been written by the same hand. Now, woman, answer. Was it your son--this
young man who, you perceive, if guilty, cannot escape from justice--was it he who forged the
names of the deceased Mrs. Thorndyke, and of John Cummins attached to it?"

"Not he--not he!" shrieked the wretched woman. "It was Thorndyke--Thorndyke himself." And then
with a sudden revulsion of feeling, as the consequences of what she had uttered flashed upon
her, she exclaimed, "Oh, Silas, what have I said?--what have I done?"

"Hanged me, that's all, you accursed devil!" replied Thorndyke with gloomy ferocity. "But I
deserve it for trusting in such an idiot: dolt and fool that I was for doing so."

The woman sank down in strong convulsions, and was, by direction of the judge, carried out
of the hall.

The anxious silence which pervaded the court during this scene, in which the reader will have
observed I played a bold, tentative, and happily-successful game, was broken as the witness
was borne off by a loud murmur of indignation, followed by congratulatory exclamations on the
fortunate termination of the suit. The defendant's counsel threw up their briefs, and a verdict
was at once returned for the plaintiff.

All the inculpated parties were speedily in custody; and the body of Mrs. Thorndyke having
been disinterred, it was discovered that she had been destroyed by bichloride of mercury, of
which a considerable quantity was detected in the body. I was not present at the trial of Thorndyke
and his accomplices--he for murder, and Headley for perjury--but I saw by the public prints
that he was found guilty, and executed: Headley was transported: the woman was, if I remember
rightly, admitted evidence for the crown.

Mary Woodley was of course put into immediate possession of her paternal inheritance; and is
now--at least she was about four months ago, when I dined with her and her husband at Dale
Farm--a comely, prosperous matron; and as happy as a woman with a numerous progeny and an easy-tempered
partner can in this, according to romance writers, vale of grief and tears expect to be. The
service I was fortunately enabled to render her forms one of the most pleasing recollections
of my life.

CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.

In the second year of my connection with the Northern Circuit, when even junior briefs were
much less numerous than acceptable, I was agreeably surprised, as I sat musing on the evening
of my arrival in the ancient city of York upon the capricious mode in which those powerful
personages the attorneys distributed their valuable favors, by the entrance of one of the most
eminent of the race practising in that part of the country, and the forthwith tender of a bulky
brief in the Crown Court, on which, as my glance instinctively fell on the interesting figures,
I perceived that the large fee, in criminal cases, of fifty guineas was marked. The local newspapers,
from which I had occasionally seen extracts, had been for some time busy with the case; and
I knew it therefore to be, relatively to the condition in life of the principal person implicated,
an important one. Rumor had assigned the conduct of the defence to an eminent leader on the
circuit--since, one of our ablest judges; and on looking more closely at the brief, I perceived
that that gentleman's name had been crossed out, and mine substituted. The fee also--a much
less agreeable alteration--had been, I saw, considerably reduced; in accordance, doubtless,
with the attorney's appreciation of the difference of value between a silk and a stuff gown.

"You are not, sir, I believe, retained for the prosecution in the crown against Everett?" said
Mr. Sharpe in his brief, business manner.

"I am not, Mr. Sharpe."

"In that case, I beg to tender you the leading-brief for the defence. It was intended, as you
perceive, to place it in the hands of our great nisi prius leader, but he will be so completely
occupied in that court, that he has been compelled to decline it. He mentioned you; and from
what I have myself seen of you in several cases, I have no doubt my unfortunate client will
have ample justice done him. Mr. Kingston will be with you."

I thanked Mr. Sharpe for his compliment, and accepted his brief. As the commission would be
opened on the following morning, I at once applied myself to a perusal of the bulky paper,
aided as I read by the verbal explanations and commentaries of Mr. Sharpe. Our conference lasted
several hours; and it was arranged that another should be held early the next morning at Mr.
Sharpe's office, at which Mr. Kingston would assist.

Dark, intricate, compassed with fearful mystery, was the case so suddenly submitted to my guidance;
and the few faint gleams of light derived from the attorney's research, prescience, and sagacity,
served but to render dimly visible a still profounder and blacker abyss of crime than that
disclosed by the evidence for the crown. Young as I then was in the profession, no marvel that
I felt oppressed by the weight of the responsibility cast upon me; or that, when wearied with
thinking, and dizzy with profitless conjecture, I threw myself into bed, perplexing images
and shapes of guilt and terror pursued me through my troubled sleep! Happily the next day was
not that of trial; for I awoke with a throbbing pulse and burning brain, and should have been
but poorly prepared for a struggle involving the issues of life and death. Extremely sensitive,
as, under the circumstances, I must necessarily have been, to the arduous nature of the grave
duties so unexpectedly devolved upon me; the following résumé of the chief incidents of the
case, as confided to me by Mr. Sharpe, will, I think, fully account to the reader for the nervous
irritability under which I for the moment, labored:--

Mr. Frederick Everett, the prisoner about to be arraigned before a jury of his countrymen for
the frightful crime of murder, had, with his father, Captain Anthony Everett, resided for several
years past at Woodlands Manor-House, the seat of Mrs. Eleanor Fitzhugh, a rich, elderly maiden
lady, aunt to the first, and sister by marriage to the last-named gentleman. A generous, pious,
high-minded person Mrs. Fitzhugh was represented to have been, but extremely sensitive withal
on the score of "family." The Fitzhughs of Yorkshire, she was wont to boast, "came in with
the Conqueror;" and any branch of the glorious tree then firmly planted in the soil of England
that degraded itself by an alliance with wealth, beauty, or worth, dwelling without the pale
of her narrow prejudices, was inexorably cut off from her affections, and, as far as she was
able, from her memory. One--the principal of these offenders--had been Mary Fitzhugh, her young,
fair, gentle, and only sister. In utter disdain and slight of the dignity of ancestry, she
had chosen to unite herself to a gentleman of the name of Mordaunt, who, though possessed of
great talents, an unspotted name, and, for his age, high rank in the civil service of the East
India Company, had--inexpiable misfortune--a trader for his grandfather! This crime against
her "house" Mrs. Eleanor Fitzhugh resolved never to forgive; and she steadily returned, unopened,
the frequent letters addressed to her by her sister, who pined in her distant Indian home for
a renewal of the old sisterly love which had watched over and gladdened her life from infancy
to womanhood. A long silence--a silence of many years--succeeded; broken at last by the sad
announcement that the unforgiven one had long since found an early grave in a foreign land.
The letter which brought the intelligence bore the London post-mark, and was written by Captain
Everett; to whom, it was stated, Mrs. Eleanor Fitzhugh's sister, early widowed, had been united
in second nuptials, and by whom she had borne a son, Frederick Everett, now nearly twenty years
of age. The long-pent-up affection of Mrs. Fitzhugh for her once idolized sister burst forth
at this announcement of her death with uncontrollable violence; and, as some atonement for
her past sinful obduracy, she immediately invited the husband and son of her long-lost Mary
to Woodlands Manor-House, to be henceforth, she said, she hoped their home. Soon after their
arrival, Mrs. Fitzhugh made a will--the family property was entirely at her disposal--revoking
a former one, which bequeathed the whole of the real and personal property to a distant relative
whom she had never seen, and by which all was devised to her nephew, who was immediately proclaimed
sole heir to the Fitzhugh estates, yielding a yearly rental of at least £12,000. Nay, so thoroughly
was she softened towards the memory of her deceased sister, that the will--of which, as I have
stated, no secret was made--provided, in the event of Frederick dying childless, that the property
should pass to his father, Mary Fitzhugh's second husband.

No two persons could be more unlike than were the father and son--mentally, morally, physically.
Frederick Everett was a fair-haired, blue-eyed young man, of amiable, caressing manners, gentle
disposition, and ardent, poetic temperament. His father, on the contrary, was a dark-featured,
cold, haughty, repulsive man, ever apparently wrapped up in selfish and moody reveries. Between
him and his son there appeared to exist but little of cordial intercourse, although the highly-sensitive
and religious tone of mind of Frederick Everett caused him to treat his parent with unvarying
deference and respect.

The poetic temperament of Frederick Everett brought him at last, as poetic temperaments are
apt to do, into trouble. Youth, beauty, innocence, and grace, united in the person of Lucy
Carrington--the only child of Mr. Stephen Carrington, a respectable retired merchant of moderate
means, residing within a few miles of Woodlands Manor-House--crossed his path; and spite of
his shield of many quarterings, he was vanquished in an instant, and almost without resistance.
The at least tacit consent and approval of Mr. Carrington and his fair daughter secured, Mr.
Everett, junior--hasty, headstrong lover that he was--immediately disclosed his matrimonial
projects to his father and aunt. Captain Everett received the announcement with a sarcastic
smile, coldly remarking, that if Mrs. Fitzhugh was satisfied, he had no objection to offer.
But, alas! no sooner did her nephew, with much periphrastic eloquence, in part his passion
for the daughter of a mere merchant to his aunt, than a vehement torrent of indignant rebuke
broke from her lips. She would die rather than consent to so degrading a mésalliance; and should
he persist in yielding to such gross infatuation, she would not only disinherit, but banish
him her house, and cast him forth a beggar on the world. Language like this, one can easily
understand, provoked language from the indignant young man which in less heated moments he
would have disdained to utter; and the aunt and nephew parted in fierce anger, and after mutual
denunciation of each other--he as a disobedient ingrate, she as an imperious, ungenerous tyrant.
The quarrel was with some difficulty patched up by Captain Everett; and with the exception
of the change which took place in the disappointed lover's demeanor--from light-hearted gaiety
to gloom and sullenness--things, after a few days, went on pretty nearly as before.

The sudden rupture of the hopes Mrs. Eleanor Fitzhugh had reposed in her nephew as the restorer
of the glories of her ancient "house," tarnished by Mary Fitzhugh's marriage, affected dangerously,
it soon appeared, that lady's already failing health. A fortnight after the quarrel with her
nephew, she became alarmingly ill. Unusual and baffling symptoms showed themselves; and after
suffering during eight days from alternate acute pain, and heavy, unconquerable drowsiness,
she expired in her nephew's arms. This sudden and fatal illness of his relative appeared to
reawaken all Frederick Everett's tenderness and affection for her. He was incessant in his
close attendance in the sick-chamber, permitting no one else to administer to his aunt either
aliment or medicine. On this latter point, indeed, he insisted, with strange fierceness, taking
the medicine with his own hand from the man who brought it; and after administering the prescribed
quantity, carefully locking up the remainder in a cabinet in his bed-room.

On the morning of the day that Mrs. Fitzhugh died, her ordinary medical attendant, Mr. Smith,
terrified and perplexed by the urgency of the symptoms exhibited by his patient, called in
the aid of a locally-eminent physician, Dr. Archer, or Archford--the name is not very distinctly
written in my memoranda of these occurrences; but we will call him Archer--who at once changed
the treatment till then pursued, and ordered powerful emetics to be administered, without,
however, as we have seen, producing any saving or sensible effect. The grief of Frederick Everett,
when all hope was over, was unbounded. He threw himself, in a paroxysm of remorse or frenzy,
upon the bed, accusing himself of having murdered her, with other strange and incoherent expressions,
upon which an intimation soon afterwards made by Dr. Archer threw startling light. That gentleman,
conjointly with Mr. Smith, requested an immediate interview with Captain Everett, and Mr. Hardyman,
the deceased lady's land-steward and solicitor, who happened to be in the house at the time.
The request was of course complied with, and Dr. Archer at once bluntly stated that, in his
opinion, poison had been administered to the deceased lady, though of what precise kind he
was somewhat at a loss to conjecture--opium essentially, he thought, though certainly not in
any of its ordinary preparations--one of the alkaloids probably which chemical science had
recently discovered. Be this as it may, a post-mortem examination of the body would clear up
all doubts, and should take place as speedily as possible. Captain Everett at once acceded
to Dr. Archer's proposal, at the same time observing that he was quite sure the result would
entirely disprove that gentleman's assumption. Mr. Hardyman also fully concurred in the necessity
of a rigid investigation; and the post-mortem examination should, it was arranged, take place
early on the following morning.

"I have another and very painful duty to perform," continued Dr. Archer, addressing Captain
Everett. "I find that your son, Mr. Frederick Everett, alone administered medicine and aliment
to Mrs. Fitzhugh during her illness. Strange, possibly wholly frenzied expressions, but which
sounded vastly like cries of remorse, irrepressible by a person unused to crime, escaped him
in my hearing just after the close of the final scene; and--But perhaps, Captain Everett, you
had better retire: this is scarcely a subject"--

"Go on, sir," said the captain, over whose countenance a strange expression--to use Dr. Archer's
own words--had flashed; "go on: I am better now."

"We all know," resumed Dr. Archer, "how greatly Mr. Frederick Everett gains in wealth by his
aunt's death; and that her decease, moreover, will enable him to conclude the marriage to which
she was so determinedly opposed. I think, therefore, that, under all the circumstances, we
shall be fully justified in placing the young gentleman under such--I will not say custody,
but surveillance as will prevent him either from leaving the house, should he imagine himself
suspected, or of destroying any evidence which may possibly exist of his guilt, if indeed he
be guilty."

"I entirely agree with you, Dr. Archer," exclaimed Mr. Hardyman, who had listened with much
excitement to the doctor's narrative; "and will, upon my own responsibility, take the necessary
steps for effecting the object you have in view."

"Gentlemen," said Captain Everett, rising from his chair, "you will of course do your duty;
but I can take no part, nor offer any counsel, in such a case; I must leave you to your own
devices." He then left the apartment.

He had been gone but a few minutes, when Frederick Everett, still in a state of terrible excitement,
entered the room, strode fiercely up to Dr. Archer, and demanded how he dared propose, as the
butler had just informed him he had done, a dissection of his aunt's body.

"I will not permit it," continued the agitated young man: "I am master here, and I say it shall
not be done. What new horror would you evoke? Is it not enough that one of the kindest, best
of God's creatures, has perished, but another sacrifice must--What do I say? Enough that I
will not permit it. I have seen similar cases-very similar cases in--in India!"

The gentleman so strangely addressed had exchanged significant glances during the delivery
of this incoherent speech; and, quite confirmed in their previous impression, Mr. Hardyman,
as their spokesman, interrupted the speaker, to inform him that he was the suspected assassin
of his aunt! CONCERNING GOOD RESOLUTIONS.

TO THE GIRL AT THE EXCHANGE.

The New Year is upon us and with it comes the determination to mend
our bad habits and make serious efforts to turn over a new leaf.

Perhaps you have already thought of this and have made some good resolutions; perhaps, on the
other hand, you cannot think of anything amiss that needs correcting. In this case will you let
me help you? In every other respect you may be perfection, but as an exchange operator, which
is the only capacity in which (alas!) I know you, you are often lacking. I have no doubt that you
are charming in private life and that we should get on famously if we met at dinner; but you
have an irritating way of giving me the wrong number, which I do most cordially hope you will
lose during 1921. When I protest, you merely say you are sorry, but what I suggest is that an
ounce of careful listening at first is worth tons of sorrow later. Kingston doesn't really sound
a bit like Brixton, and yet yesterday, when I asked for a Kingston number, you put me at once
on to the same number in the other suburb. Constantly when I say I want 2365 you give me 2356.
To give you your due you are always, I will admit, sorry; but....

Another thing. Sometimes, when you ring me up and I answer, all you do is to ask, "Number, please,"
as though I had rung you. (It is then that I feel most that I should like to wring you.) When
I reply, "But you rang me," you revert to your prevailing regretful melancholy and say, "Sorry you
were troubled," and before I can go deeply into the question and discover how these things occur
you ring off. Can't you make an effort during 1921 not to do this? Let it be a year of gladness.

Sometimes
I am perfectly certain you don't ring up the number I want until after you have asked me once
or twice if they have answered. Isn't that so? "I'll ring them again," you say with a kind
of resigned adventurousness; but, knowing as I do that they have been waiting for my call,
I am not taken in. But what I want to know is--what were you doing instead of ringing up at first?
I suppose that these secrets will never be penetrated by the ordinary subscriber outside the sacred
precincts; but I wish you would give me fewer of such problems to ponder during the year that
is coming.

P.S.--Have you ever considered, with proper alarm, what would happen to a cinema story if a wrong
number were provided by the operator, or if any delay whatever occurred? This should make you
think.

TO A RACING JOURNALIST.

I suggest that you should include among your good resolutions for the New Year the decision not
to allow your readers to participate in your special information as to which horse will come
in first.

Tell them all you like about yesterday's sport, but dangle no more "security tips" before their diminishing
purses. If they must bet--which of course they must, as betting is now the principal national
industry--let them at least have the fun of selecting the "also-ran" themselves.

TO MANY AN EDITOR.

In contemplating your 1921 programme of regeneration could you not make a vow to dispense with
all headlines that ask questions? Probably you never see the paper yourself and therefore have
no feeling in the matter, but I can assure you that the habit can become very wearisome. "Will
it freeze to-day?" "Can Beckett win?" "Will Hobbs reach his 3,000 runs?" "Are the Lords going
to pass the Bill?" Won't you make an effort to do without this formula?
It is futile in itself and has the unfortunate effect of raising what
surely are undesirable doubts as to whether journalists are any more
sensible than their readers.

TO ONE EDITOR IN PARTICULAR.

No comic
hats in 1921, please.

TO THE P.M.G.

There is, as everyone (except
possibly Mr. AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN and the cynic who professes to hate
letters so much that he wishes that they cost a shilling a-piece to
send) will agree, one good resolution which above all others you should
concentrate upon for 1921, and that is to get back our penny postage.
With so many comparatively unnecessary things still untaxed, it never
should have been sacrificed.

TO A PORK BUTCHER.

Among the problems
of this latter day of discontents few are more pressing than speculating
as to why sausages and pork-pies have so degenerated. Under the malign
influence of Peace, sausages have become tasteless and pork-pies nothing
but pies with pork in them; the crust chiefly plaster-of-Paris, and
the meat not an essential element, soft and seductive and fused with
the pastry, but an alien assortment of half-cooked cubes. You know to whom
my suspicions point; and how dreadful to think that one so young, so brave, so pious, and so
true, should be sacrificed for such a monster as I believe that man to be!"

To all these passionate expostulations the attorney could only reply that vague suspicions
were not judicial proofs; and that if Mr. Frederick Everett would persist in his obstinate
reserve, a fatal result was inevitable. But Mr. Sharpe readily consented to gratify the wishes
of Mr. Carrington and his daughter on one point: he returned the money, not a very large sum,
which Captain Everett had sent him, and agreed that Mr. Carrington should supply the funds
necessary for the defence of the prisoner.

Our consultation the next day at Mr. Sharpe's was a sad and hopeless one. Nowhere did a gleam
of cheerful light break in. The case was overwhelmingly complete against the prisoner. The
vague suspicions we entertained pointed to a crime so monstrous, so incredible, that we felt
it could not be so much as hinted at upon such, legally considered, slight grounds. The prisoner
was said to be an eloquent speaker, and I undertook to draw up the outline of a defence, impugning,
with all the dialectic skill I was master of, the conclusiveness of the evidence for the crown.
To this, and a host of testimony to character which we proposed to call, rested our faint hopes
of "a good deliverance!"

Business was over, and we were taking a glass of wine with Mr. Sharpe, when his chief clerk
entered to say that Sergeant Edwards, an old soldier--who had spoken to them some time before
relative to a large claim which he asserted he had against Captain Everett, arising out of
a legacy bequeathed to him in India, and the best mode of assuring its payment by an annuity,
as proposed by the captain--had now called to say that the terms were at last finally arranged,
and that he wished to know when Mr. Sharpe would be at leisure to draw up the bond. "He need
not fear for his money!" exclaimed Sharpe tartly, "the captain will, I fear, be rich enough
before another week has passed over our heads. Tell him to call to-morrow evening; I will see
him after I return from court." A few minutes afterwards, I and Mr. Kingston took our leave.

The Crown Court was thronged to suffocation on the following morning, and the excitement of
the auditory appeared to be of the intensest kind. Miss Carrington, closely veiled, sat beside
her father on one of the side-benches. A true bill against the prisoner had been found on the
previous afternoon; and the trial, it had been arranged, to suit the convenience of counsel,
should be first proceeded with. The court was presided over by Mr. Justice Grose; and Mr. Gurney--afterwards
Mr. Baron Gurney--with another gentleman appeared for the prosecution. As soon as the judge
had taken his seat, the prisoner was ordered to be brought in, and a hush of expectation pervaded
the assembly. In a few minutes he made his appearance in the dock. His aspect--calm, mournful,
and full of patient resignation--spoke strongly to the feelings of the audience, and a low
murmur of sympathy ran through the court. He bowed respectfully to the bench, and then his
sad, proud eye wandered round the auditory, till it rested on the form of Lucy Carrington,
who, overcome by sudden emotion, had hidden her weeping face in her father's bosom. Strong
feeling, which he with difficulty mastered, shook his frame, and blanched to a still deeper
pallor his fine intellectual countenance. He slowly withdrew his gaze from the agitating spectacle,
and his troubled glance meeting that of Mr. Sharpe, seemed to ask why proceedings, which could
only have one termination, were delayed. He had not long to wait. The jury were sworn, and
Mr. Gurney rose to address them for the crown. Clear, terse, logical, powerful without the
slightest pretence to what is called eloquence, his speech produced a tremendous impression
upon all who heard it; and few persons mentally withheld their assent to his assertion, as
he concluded what was evidently a painful task, "that should he produce evidence substantiating
the statement he had made, the man who could then refuse to believe in the prisoner's guilt,
would equally refuse credence to actions witnessed by his own bodily eyes."

The different witnesses were then called, and testified to the various facts I have before
related. Vainly did Mr. Kingston and I exert ourselves to invalidate the irresistible proofs
of guilt so dispassionately detailed. "It is useless," whispered Mr. Sharpe, as I sat down
after the cross-examination of the aged butler. "You have done all that could be done; but
he is a doomed man, spite of his innocence, of which I feel, every moment that I look at him,
the more and more convinced. God help us; we are poor, fallible creatures, with all our scientific
machinery for getting at truth!"

The case for the crown was over, and the prisoner was told that now was the time for him to
address the jury in answer to the charge preferred against him. He bowed courteously to the
intimation, and drawing a paper from his pocket, spoke, after a few preliminary words of course,
nearly as follows:--

"I hold in my hand a very acute and eloquent address prepared for me by one of the able and
zealous gentlemen who appears to-day as my counsel, and which, but for the iniquitous law which
prohibits the advocate of a presumed felon, but possibly quite innocent person, from addressing
the jury, upon whose verdict his client's fate depends, would no doubt have formed the subject-matter
of an appeal to you not to yield credence to the apparently irrefragable testimony arrayed
against me. The substance of this defence you must have gathered from the tenor of the cross-examinations;
but so little effect did it produce, I saw, in that form, however ably done, and so satisfied
am I that though it were rendered with an angel's eloquence, it would prove utterly impotent
to shake the strong conclusions of my guilt, which you, short-sighted, fallible mortals--short-sighted
and fallible because mortal!--I mean no disrespect--must have drawn from the body of evidence
you have heard, that I will not weary you or myself by reading it. I will only observe that
it points especially to the over-roof, so to speak, arrayed against me--to the folly of supposing
that an intentional murderer would ostentatiously persist in administering the fatal potion
to the victim with his own hands, carefully excluding all others from a chance of incurring
suspicion. There are other points, but this is by far the most powerful one; and as I cannot
believe that will induce you to return a verdict rescuing me from what the foolish world, judging
from appearances, will call a shameful death, but which I, knowing my own heart, feel to be
sanctified by the highest motives which can influence man--it would be merely waste of time
to repeat them. From the first moment, gentlemen, that this accusation was preferred against
me, I felt that I had done with this world; and, young as I am, but for one beloved being whose
presence lighted up and irradiated this else cold and barren earth, I should, with little reluctance,
have accepted this gift of an apparently severe, but perhaps merciful fate. This life, gentlemen,"
he continued after a short pause, "it has been well said, is but a battle and a march. I have
been struck down early in the combat; but of what moment is that, if it be found by Him who
witnesses the world-unnoticed deeds of all his soldiers, that I have earned the victor's crown?
Let it be your consolation, gentlemen, if hereafter you should discover that you have sent
me to an undeserved death, that you at least will not have hurried a soul spotted with the
awful crime of murder before its Maker. And oh," he exclaimed in conclusion, with solemn earnestness,
"may all who have the guilt of blood upon them hasten, whilst life is still granted them, to
cleanse themselves by repentance of that foul sin, so that not only the sacrifice of one poor
life, but that most holy and tremendous one offered in the world's consummate hour, may not
for them have been made in vain! My lord and gentlemen, I have no more to say. You will doubtless
do your duty: I have done mine."

I was about, a few minutes after the conclusion of this strange and unexpected address, to
call our witnesses to character, when, to the surprise of the whole court, and the consternation
of the prisoner, Miss Carrington started up, threw aside her veil, and addressing the judge,
demanded to be heard.

Queenly, graceful, and of touching loveliness did she look in her vehemence of sorrow--radiant
as sunlight in her days of joy she must have been--as she stood up, affection-prompted, regardless
of self, of the world, to make one last effort to save her affianced husband.

"What would you say, young lady?" said Mr. Justice Grose, kindly. "If you have anything to
testify in favor of the prisoner, you had better communicate with his counsel."

"Not that--not that," she hurriedly replied, as if fearful that her strength would fail before
she had enunciated her purpose. "Put, my lord, put Frederick--the prisoner, I mean--on his
oath. Bid him declare, as he shall answer at the bar of Almighty God, who is the murderer for
whom he is about to madly sacrifice himself, and you will then find"--

"Your request is an absurd one," interrupted the judge with some asperity. "I have no power
to question a prisoner."

"Then," shrieked the unfortunate lady, sinking back fainting and helpless in her father's arms,
"he is lost--lost!"

She was immediately carried out of court; and as soon as the sensation caused by so extraordinary
and painful an incident had subsided, the trial proceeded. A cloud of witnesses to character
were called; the judge summed up; the jury deliberated for a few minutes; and a verdict of
"guilty" was returned. Sentence to die on the day after the next followed, and all was over!

Yes; all was, we deemed, over; but happily a decree, reversing that of Mr. Justice Grose, had
gone forth in Heaven. I was sitting at home about an hour after the court had closed, painfully
musing on the events of the day, when the door of the apartment suddenly flew open, and in
rushed Mr. Sharpe in a state of great excitement, accompanied by Sergeant Edwards, whom the
reader will remember had called the previous day at that gentleman's house. In a few minutes
I was in possession of the following important information, elicited by Mr. Sharpe from the
half-willing, half-reluctant sergeant, whom he had found waiting for him at his office:--

In the first place, Captain Everett was not the father of the prisoner! The young man was the
son of Mary Fitzhugh by her first marriage; and his name, consequently, was Mordaunt, not Everett.
His mother had survived her second marriage barely six months. Everett, calculating doubtless
upon the great pecuniary advantages which would be likely to result to himself as the reputed
father of the heir to a splendid English estate, should the quarrel with Mrs. Eleanor Fitzhugh--as
he nothing doubted--be ultimately made up, had brought his deceased wife's infant son up as
his own. This was the secret of Edwards and his wife; and to purchase their silence, Captain
Everett had agreed to give the bond for an annuity which Mr. Sharpe was to draw up. The story
of the legacy was a mere pretence. When Edwards was in Yorkshire before, Everett pacified him
for the time with a sum of money, and a promise to do more for him as soon as his reputed son
came into the property. He then hurried the cidevant sergeant back to London; and at the last
interview he had with him, gave him a note addressed to a person living in one of the streets--I
forget which--leading out of the Haymarket, together with a five-pound note, which he was to
pay the person to whom the letter was addressed for some very rare and valuable powder, which
the captain wanted for scientific purposes, and which Edwards was to forward by coach to Woodlands
Manor-House. Edwards obeyed his instructions, and delivered the message to the queer bushy-bearded
foreigner to whom it was addressed, who told him that, if he brought him the sum of money mentioned
in the note on the following day, he should have the article required. He also bade him bring
a well-stoppered bottle to put it in. As the bottle was to be sent by coach, Edwards purchased
a tin flask, as affording a better security against breakage; and having obtained the powder,
packed it nicely up, and told his niece, who was staying with him at the time, to direct it,
as he was in a hurry to go out, to Squire Everett, Woodlands Manor-House, Yorkshire, and then
take it to the booking-office. He thought, of course, though he said Squire in a jocular way,
that she would have directed it Captain Everett, as she knew him well; but it seemed she had
not. Edwards had returned to Yorkshire only two days since, to get his annuity settled, and
fortunately was present in court at the trial of Frederick Mordaunt, alias Everett, and at
once recognized the tin flask as the one he had purchased and forwarded to Woodlands, where
it must in due course have arrived on the day stated by the butler. Terrified and bewildered
at the consequences of what he had done, or helped to do, Edwards hastened to Mr. Sharpe, who,
by dint of exhortations, threats, and promises, judiciously blended, induced him to make a
clean breast of it.

As much astounded as elated by this unlooked-for information, it was some minutes before I
could sufficiently concentrate my thoughts upon the proper course to be pursued. I was not,
however, long in deciding. Leaving Mr. Sharpe to draw up an affidavit of the facts disclosed,
I hastened off to the jail, in order to obtain a thorough elucidation of all the mysteries.

The revulsion of feeling in the prisoner's mind when he learned that the man for whom he had
so recklessly sacrificed himself was not only not his father, but a cold-blooded villain, who,
according to the testimony of Sergeant Edwards, had embittered, perhaps shortened, his mother's
last hours, was immediate and excessive. "I should have taken Lucy's advice!" he bitterly exclaimed,
as he strode to and fro in his cell; "have told the truth at all hazards, and have left the
rest to God." His explanation of the incidents that had so puzzled us all, was as simple as
satisfactory. He had always, from his earliest days, stood much in awe of his father, who in
the, to young Mordaunt, sacred character of parent, exercised an irresistible control over
him; and when the butler entered the library, he believed for an instant it was his father
who had surprised him in the act of reading his correspondence; an act which, however unintentional,
would, he knew, excite Captain Everett's fiercest wrath. Hence arose the dismay and confusion
which the butler had described. He re-sealed the parcel, and placed it in his reputed father's
dressing-room; and thought little more of the matter, till, on entering his aunt's bedroom
on the first evening of her illness, he beheld Everett pour a small portion of white powder
from the tin flask into the bottle containing his aunt's medicine. The terrible truth at once
flashed upon him. A fierce altercation immediately ensued in the father's dressing-room, whither
Frederick followed him. Everett persisted that the powder was a celebrated Eastern medicament,
which would save, if anything could, his aunt's life. The young man was not of course deceived
by this shallow falsehood, and from that moment administered the medicine to the patient with
his own hands, and kept the bottles which contained it locked up in his cabinet. "On the very
morning of my aunt's death, I surprised him shutting and locking one of my cabinet drawers.
So dumbfounded was I with horror and dismay at the sight, that he left the room by a side-door
without observing me. You have now the key to my conduct. I loathed to look upon the murderer;
but I would have died a thousand deaths rather than attempt to save my own life by the sacrifice
of a father's--how guilty soever he might be."

Furnished with this explanation, and the affidavit of Edwards, I waited upon the judge, and
obtained not only a respite for the prisoner, but a warrant for the arrest of Captain Everett.

It was a busy evening. Edwards was despatched to London in the friendly custody of an intelligent
officer, to secure the person of the foreign-looking vender of subtle poisons; and Mr. Sharpe,
with two constables, set off in a postchaise for Woodlands Manor-House. It was late when they
arrived there, and the servants informed them that Captain Everett had already retired. They
of course insisted upon seeing him; and he presently appeared, wrapped in a dressing-gown,
and haughtily demanded their business with him at such an hour. The answer smote him as with
a thunderbolt, and he staggered backwards, till arrested by the wall of the apartment, and
then sank feebly, nervelessly, into a chair. Eagerly, after a pause, he questioned the intruders
upon the nature of the evidence against him. Mr. Sharpe briefly replied that Edwards was in
custody, and had revealed everything.

"Is it indeed so?" rejoined Everett, seeming to derive resolution and fortitude from the very
extremity of despair. "Then the game is unquestionably lost. It was, however, boldly and skilfully
played, and I am not a man to whimper over a fatal turn of the dice. In a few minutes, gentlemen,"
he added, "I shall have changed my dress, and be ready to accompany you."

"We cannot lose sight of you for an instant," replied Mr. Sharpe. "One of the officers must
accompany you."

"Be it so: I shall not detain either him or you long."

Captain Everett, followed by the officer, passed into his dressing-room. He pulled off his
gown; and pointing to a coat suspended on a peg at the further extremity of the apartment,
requested the constable to reach it for him. The man hastened to comply with his wish. Swiftly,
Everett opened a dressing-case which stood on a table near him: the officer heard the sharp
clicking of a pistol-lock, and turned swiftly round. Too late! A loud report rang through the
house; the room was filled with smoke; and the wretched assassin and suicide lay extended on
the floor a mangled corpse!

It would be useless minutely to recapitulate, the final winding-up of this eventful drama.
Suffice it to record, that Mr. Frederick Mordaunt was, after a slight delay, restored to freedom
and a splendid position in society. After the lapse of a decent interval, he espoused Lucy
Carrington. Their eldest son represents in this present parliament one of the English boroughs,
and is by no means an undistinguished member of the Commons House.

"THE ACCOMMODATION BILL."

Such of the incidents of the following narrative as did not fall within my own personal observation,
were communicated to me by the late Mr. Ralph Symonds, and the dying confessions of James Hornby,
one of the persons killed by the falling in of the iron roof of the Brunswick Theatre. A conversation
the other day with a son of Mr. Symonds, who has been long settled in London, recalled the
entire chain of circumstances to my memory with all the vivid distinctness of a first impression.

One evening towards the close of the year 1806, the Leeds coach brought Mr. James Hornby to
the village of Pool, on the Wharf, in the West-Riding of Yorkshire. A small but respectable
house on the confines of the place had been prepared for his reception, and a few minutes after
his descent from the top of the coach, the pale, withered-looking man disappeared within it.
Except for occasional trips to Otley, a small market-town distant about three miles from Pool,
he rarely afterwards emerged from its seclusion. It was not Time, we shall presently see--he
was indeed but four-and-forty years of age--that had bowed his figure, thinned his whitening
hair, and banished from his countenance all signs of healthy, cheerful life. This, too, appeared
to be the opinion of the gossips of the village, who, congregated, as usual, to witness the
arrival and departure of the coach, indulged, thought Mr. Symonds, who was an inside passenger
proceeding on to Otley, in remarkably free-and-easy commentaries upon the past, present, and
future of the new-comer.

"I mind him well," quavered an old white-haired man. "It's just three-and-twenty years ago
last Michaelmas. I remember it because of the hard frost two years before, that young Jim Hornby
left Otley to go to Lunnon: just the place, I'm told, to give the finishing polish to such
a miscreant as he seemed likely to be. He was just out of his time to old Hornby, his uncle,
the grocer."

"He that's left him such heaps of money?"

"Ay, boy, the very same, though he wouldn't have given him or any one else a cheese-paring
whilst he lived. This one is a true chip of the old block, I'll warrant. You noticed that he
rode outside, bitter cold as it is?".

"Surely, Gaffer Hicks. But do ye mind what it was he went off in such a skurry for? Tom Harris
was saying last night at the Horse-Shoe, it was something concerning a horse-race or a young
woman; he warn't quite sensible which."

"I can't say," rejoined the more ancient oracle, "that I quite mind all the ups and downs of
it. Henry Burton horse-whipped him on the Doncaster race-course, that I know; but whether it
was about Cinderella that had, they said, been tampered with the night before the race, or
Miss Elizabeth Grainsford, whom Burton married a few weeks afterwards, I can't, as Tom Harris
says, quite clearly remember."

"Old Hornby had a heavy grip of Burton's farm for a long time before he died, they were saying
yesterday at Otley. The sheepskins will now no doubt be in the nephew's strong box."

"True, lad; and let's hope Master Burton will be regular with his payments; for if not, there's
Jail and Ruin for him written in capital letters on yon fellow's cast-iron phiz, I can see."

The random hits of these Pool gossips, which were here interrupted by the departure of the
coach, were not very wide of the mark. James Hornby, it was quite true, had been publicly horsewhipped
twenty-three years before by Henry Burton on the Doncaster race-course, ostensibly on account
of the sudden withdrawal of a horse that should have started, a transaction with which young
Hornby was in some measure mixed up; but especially and really for having dared, upon the strength
of presumptive heirship to his uncle's wealth, to advance pretensions to the fair hand of Elizabeth
Gainsford, the eldest daughter of Mr. Robert Gainsford, surgeon, of Otley--pretensions indirectly
favored, it was said, by the father, but contemptuously repudiated by the lady. Be this as
it may, three weeks after the races, Elizabeth Gainsford became Mrs. Burton, and James Hornby
hurried off to London, grudgingly furnished for the journey by his uncle. He obtained a situation
as shopman in one of the large grocer establishments of the metropolis; and twenty-three years
afterwards, the attorney's letter, informing him that he had succeeded to all his deceased
uncle's property, found him in the same place, and in the same capacity.

A perfect yell of delight broke from the lips of the taciturn man as his glance devoured the
welcome intelligence. "At last!" he shouted with maniacal glee; and fiercely crumpling the
letter in his hand, as if he held a living foe in his grasp, whilst a flash of fiendish passion
broke from the deep caverns of his sunken eyes--"at last I have thee on the hip! Ah, mine enemy!--it
is the dead--the dead alone that never return to hurl back on the head of the wrong-doer the
shame, the misery, the ruin he inflicted in his hour of triumph!" The violence of passions
suddenly unreined after years of jealous curb and watchfulness for a moment overcame him, and
he reeled as if fainting, into a chair. The fierce, stern nature of the man soon mastered the
unwonted excitement, and in a few minutes he was cold, silent, impassable as ever. The letter
which he despatched the same evening gave calm, business orders as to his uncle's funeral,
and other pressing matters upon which the attorney had demanded instructions, and concluded
by intimating that he should be in Yorkshire before many days elapsed. He arrived, as we have
seen, and took up his abode at one of the houses bequeathed to him in Pool, which happened
to be unlet.

Yes, for more than twenty bitter years James Hornby had savagely brooded over the shame and
wrong inflicted on him before the mocking eyes of a brutal crowd by Henry Burton. Ever as the
day's routine business closed, and he retired to the dull solitude of his chamber, the last
mind-picture which faded on his waking sense was the scene on the crowded race-course, with
all its exasperating accessories--the merciless exultation of the triumphant adversary--the
jibes and laughter of his companions--the hootings of the mob--to be again repeated with fantastic
exaggeration in the dreams which troubled and perplexed his broken sleep. No wonder that the
demons of Revenge and Hate, by whom he was thus goaded, should have withered by their poisonous
breath the healthful life which God had given--have blasted with premature old age a body rocker
with curses to unblessed repose! It seemed, by his after-confessions, that he had really loved
Elizabeth Gainsford with all the energy of his violent, moody nature, and that her image, fresh,
lustrous, radiant, as in the dawn of life, unceasingly haunted his imagination with visions
of tenderness and beauty, lost to him, as he believed, through the wiles, the calumnies, and
violence of his detested, successful rival.

The matronly person who, a few days after the Christmas following Hornby's arrival at Pool,
was conversing with her husband in the parlor of Grange farmhouse, scarcely realized the air-drawn
image which dwelt in the memory of the unforgiving, unforgetting man. Mrs. Burton was at this
time a comely dame, whose embonpoint contour, however indicative of florid health and serenity
of temper, exhibited little of the airy elegance and grace said to have distinguished the girlhood
of Elizabeth Gainsford. Her soft brown eyes were gentle and kind as ever, but the brilliant
lights of youth no longer sparkled in their quiet depths, and time had not only "thinned her
flowing hair"--necessitating caps--but had brushed the roses from her cheeks, and swept away,
with his searing hand, the pale lilies from the furtive coverts whence they had glanced in
tremulous beauty, in life's sweet prime; yet for all that, and a great deal more, Mrs. Burton,
I have no manner of doubt, looked charmingly in the bright fire-blaze which gleamed in chequered
light and shade upon the walls, pictures, curtains of the room, and the green leaves and scarlet
berries of the Christmas holly with which it was profusely decorated. Three of her children--the
eldest, Elizabeth, a resuscitation of her own youth--were by her side, and opposite sat her
husband, whose frank, hearty countenance seemed to sparkle with careless mirth.

"Hornby will be here presently, Elizabeth," said he. "What a disappointment awaits the rascally
curmudgeon! His uncle was a prince compared to him."

"Disappointment, Henry! to receive four hundred pounds he did not expect?"

"Ay, truly, dame. Lawyer Symonds' son Frank, a fine, good-hearted young fellow as ever stepped
in shoe-leather--Lizzy, girl, if that candle were nearer your face it would light without a
match"--

"Nonsense, father!"

"Very likely. Frank Symonds, I was saying, believes, and so does his father, that Hornby would
rejoice at an opportunity of returning with interest the smart score I marked upon his back
three-and-twenty years ago"

"It was a thoughtless, cruel act, Henry," rejoined his wife, "and the less said of it the better.
I hope the fright we have had will induce you to practice a better economy than heretofore;
so that, instead of allowing two years' interest to accumulate upon us, we may gradually reduce
the mortgage."

"That we will, dear, depend upon it. We shall be pushed a little at first: Kirkshaw, who lent
me the two hundred and fifty, can only spare it for a month; but no doubt the bank will do
a bill for part of it by that time. But sufficient for the day is the evil thereof. Here is
the money for Hornby at all events: and here at last comes the shrivelled atomy; I hear his
horse. Fanny, light the candles."

If Mrs. Burton had consciously or unconsciously entertained the self-flattering notion that
the still unwedded bachelor who had unsuccessfully wooed her nearly a quarter of a century
before, still retained a feeling of regretful tenderness for her, she must have been grievously
surprised by the cold, unrecognizing glance which Hornby threw on her as he entered, and curtly
replied to her civil greeting. That was not the image stamped upon his heart and brain! But
when her eldest daughter approached the lights to place paper and pens upon the table, the
flashing glance and white quivering lip of the grave visitor revealed the tempest of emotion
which for an instant shook him. He quickly suppressed all outward manifestation of feeling,
and in a dry, business tone, demanded if Mr. Burton was ready to pay the interest of the mortgage.

"Yes, thank God," replied Burton, "I am: here is the money in notes of the Governor and Company
of the Bank of England. Count them!"

Hornby bent down over the notes, shading his face with his hand, as if more accurately to examine
them, and the glance of baffled rage which swept across his features was not observed.

"They are quite right," he said, rising from his chair; "and here is your receipt."

"Very Good! And now, Hornby, let us have a glass of wine together for the sake of old times.
Well, well; you need not look so fierce about it. Let bygones be bygones, I say. Oh, if you
will go--go in God's name! Good-night!"

"Good-night!"

"Baffled--foiled!" muttered Hornby as he rode homeward. "Where could he get the money? Borrowed
it, doubtless, but of whom? Well, patience--patience! I shall grip thee yet, Henry Burton!"
And the possessed man turned round in his saddle, and shook his clenched hand in the direction
of the house he had quitted. He then steadily pursued his way, and soon regained his hermitage.

The month for which Burton had borrowed the two hundred and fifty pounds passed rapidly--as
months always do to borrowers--and expedient after expedient for raising the money was tried
in vain. This money must be repaid, Kirkshaw had emphatically told him, on the day stipulated.
Burton applied to the bank at Leeds, with which he usually did business, to discount an acceptance,
guaranteed by one or two persons whose names he mentioned. The answer was the usual civil refusal
to accept the proffered security for repayment--"the bank was just then full of discounts."
Burton ventured, as a last resource, to call on Hornby with a request that, as the rapid advance
in the market-value of land consequent on the high war-prices obtained for its produce, had
greatly increased the worth of Grange Farm, he would add the required sum to the already-existing
mortgage. He was met by a prompt refusal. Mr. Hornby intended to foreclose as speedily as possible
the mortgages he already held, and invest his capital in more profitable securities. "Well,
then--would he lend the amount at any interest he chose?"

"The usury laws," replied Hornby, with his usual saturnine sneer, "would prevent my acceptance
of your obliging offer, even if I had the present means, which I have not. My spare cash happens
just now to be temporarily locked up."

Burton, half-crazed with anxiety, went the following day to the Leeds bank with the proffer
of a fresh name agreed to be lent him by its owner. Useless! "They did not know the party."
The applicant mused a few moments, and then said, "Would you discount the note of Mr. James
Hornby of Pool?"

"Certainly; with a great deal of pleasure." Burton hurried away; had his horse instantly saddled,
and gallopped off to Pool. Hornby was at home.

"You hinted the other day," said Burton, "that if you had not been short of present means you
might have obliged me with the loan I required"

"Did I?"

"At least I so understood you. I am of course not ignorant, Mr. Hornby, that there is no good
blood between us two; but I also know that you are fond of money, and that you are fully aware
that I am quite safe for a few hundred pounds. I am come, therefore, to offer you ten pounds
bonus for your acceptance at one month for two hundred and fifty pounds."

"What?" exclaimed Hornby with strange vehemence. "What"

Burton repeated his offer, and Hornby turned away towards the window without speaking.

When he again faced Burton, his countenance wore its usual color; but the expression of his
eyes, the applicant afterwards remembered, was wild and exulting.

"Have you a bill stamp?"

"Yes."

"Then draw the bill at once, and I will accept it."

Burton did not require to be twice told. The bill was quickly drawn; Hornby took it to another
table at the further end of the apartment, slowly wrote his name across it, folded, and returned
it to Burton, who tendered the ten pounds he had offered, and a written acknowledgment that
the bill had been drawn and accepted for his (Burton's) accommodation.

"I don't want your money, Henry Burton," said Hornby, putting back the note and the memorandum.
"I am not afraid of losing by this transaction. You do not know me yet."

"A queer stick," thought Burton, as he gained the street; "but Old Nick is seldom so black
as he's painted! He was a plaguy while, I thought, signing his name; but I wish I could sign
mine to such good purpose."

Burton laid the accepted bill, face downwards, on the bank counter, took a pen, indorsed, and
passed it to the managing clerk. The gray-headed man glanced sharply at the signature, and
then at Burton, "Why, surely this is not Mr. Hornby's signature? It does not at all resemble it!"

"Not his signature!" exclaimed Burton; "what do you mean by that?"

"Reynolds, look here," continued the clerk, addressing another of the bank employés. Reynolds
looked, and his immediate glance of surprise and horror at Burton revealed the impression he
had formed.

"Please to step this way, Mr. Burton, to a private apartment," said the manager.

"No--no, I won't," stammered the unfortunate man, over whose mind a dreadful suspicion had
glanced with the suddenness of lightning. "I will go back to Hornby;" and he made a desperate
but vain effort to snatch the fatal instrument. Then, pale and staggering with a confused terror
and bewilderment, he attempted to rush into the street. He was stopped, with the help of the
bystanders, by one of the clerks, who had jumped over the counter for the purpose.

The messenger despatched by the bankers to Hornby returned with an answer that the alleged
acceptance was a forgery. It was stated on the part of Mr. Hornby that Mr. Burton had indeed
requested him to lend two hundred and fifty pounds, but he had refused. The frantic asseverations
of poor Burton were of course disregarded, and he was conveyed to jail. An examination took
place the next day before the magistrates, and the result was, that the prisoner was fully
committed on the then capital charge for trial at the ensuing assize.

It were useless, as painful, to dwell upon the consternation and agony which fell upon the
dwellers at Grange Farm when the terrible news reached them. A confident belief in the perfect
innocence of the prisoner, participated by most persons who knew his character and that of
Hornby, and that it would be triumphantly vindicated on the day of trial, which rapidly approached,
alone enabled them to bear up against the blow, and to await with trembling hope the verdict
of a jury.

It was at this crisis of the drama that I became an actor in it. I was retained for the defence
by my long-known and esteemed friend Symonds, whose zeal for his client, stimulated by strong
personal friendship, knew no bounds. The acceptance, he informed me, so little resembled Hornby's
handwriting, that if Burton had unfolded the bill when given back to him by the villain, he
could hardly have failed to suspect the nature of the diabolical snare set for his life.

In those days, and until Mr., now Sir, Robert Peel's amendment of the criminal law and practice
of this country, the acceptor of a bill of exchange, on the principle that he was interested
in denying the genuineness of the signature, could not, according to the English law of evidence,
be called, on the part of the prosecution, to prove the forgery; and of course, after what
had taken place, we did not propose to call Hornby for the defence. The evidence for the crown
consisted, therefore, on the day of trial, of the testimony of persons acquainted with Hornby's
signature, that the acceptance across the inculpated bill was not in his handwriting. Burton's
behavior at the bank, in endeavoring to repossess himself of the bill by violence, was of course
detailed, and told heavily against him.

All the time this testimony was being given, Hornby sat on one of the front seats of the crowded
court, exulting in the visible accomplishment of his Satanic device. We could see but little
of his face, which, supported on his elbow, was partially concealed by a handkerchief he held
in his hand; but I, who narrowly observed him, could occasionally discern flashes from under
his pent brows--revealments of the fierce struggle which raged within.

The moment at last arrived for the prisoner, whose eyes had been for some time fixed on Hornby,
to speak or read his defence, and a breathless silence pervaded the court.

Burton started at the summons, like a man unexpectedly recalled to a sense of an imperious,
but for the moment forgotten, duty.

"James Hornby!" he suddenly cried with a voice which rang through the assembly like a trumpet,
"stand up, and if you can face an innocent man"--

Hornby, surprised out of his self-possession, mechanically obeyed the strange order, sprang
involuntarily to his feet, let fall the handkerchief that had partially concealed his features,
and nervously confronted the prisoner.

"Look at me, I say," continued Burton with increasing excitement; "and as you hope to escape
the terrors of the last judgment, answer truly: did you not, with your own hand, and in my
presence, sign that bill?"--

"This cannot be permitted," interrupted the judge.

"If you do not speak," proceeded the prisoner, heedless of the intimation from the bench; "or
if you deny the truth, my life, as sure as there is a God in heaven, will be required at your
hands. If, in consequence of your devilish plotting, these men consign me to a felon's grave,
I shall not be cold in it when you will be calling upon the mountains to fall and cover you
from the vengeance of the Judge of heaven and earth! Speak, man--save me: save your own soul
from mortal peril whilst there is yet time for mercy and repentance!"

Hornby's expression of surprise and confusion had gradually changed during this appeal to its
usual character of dogged impassibility. He turned calmly and appealingly towards the bench.

"You need not answer these wild adjurations, Mr. Hornby," said the judge, as soon as he could
make himself heard.

A smile curled the fellow's lip as he bowed deferentially to his lordship, and he sat down
without uttering a syllable.

"May the Lord, then, have mercy on my soul!" exclaimed the prisoner solemnly. Then glancing
at the bench and jury-box, he added, "And you, my lord and gentlemen, work your will with my
body as quickly as you may: I am a lost man!"

The calling of witnesses to character, the opening of the judge's charge, pointing from its
first sentence to a conviction, elicited no further manifestation of feeling from the prisoner:
he was as calm as despair.

The judge had been speaking for perhaps ten minutes, when a bustle was heard at the hall, as
if persons were striving to force their way into the body of the court in spite of the resistance
of the officers.

"Who is that disturbing the court?" demanded the judge angrily.

"For the love of Heaven let me pass!" we heard uttered in passionate tones by a female voice.
"I must and will see the judge!"

"Who can this be?" T inquired, addressing Mr. Symonds.

"I cannot conceive," he replied; "surely not Mrs. Burton?"

I had kept my eye, as I spoke, upon Hornby, and noticed that he exhibited extraordinary emotion
at the sound of the voice, to whomsoever it belonged, and was now endeavoring to force his
way through the crowded and anxious auditory.

"My lord," said I, "I have to request on the part of the prisoner that the person desirous
of admittance may be heard."

"What has she to say? Or if a material witness, why have you not called her at the proper time?"
replied his lordship with some irritation.

"My lord, I do not even now know her name; but in a case involving the life of the prisoner,
it is imperative that no chance be neglected"--

"Let the woman pass into the witness-box," interrupted the judge.

The order brought before our eyes a pale, stunted woman, of about fifty years of age, whose
excited and by no means unintellectual features, and hurried, earnest manner, seemed to betoken
great and unusual feeling.

"As I'm alive, Hornby's deformed housekeeper!" whispered Symonds. "This poor devil's knot will
be unraveled yet."

The woman, whose countenance and demeanor, as she gave her evidence, exhibited a serious, almost
solemn intelligence, deposed to the following effect:--

"Her name was Mary McGrath, and she was the daughter of Irish parents, but born and brought
up in England. She had been Mr. Hornby's housekeeper, and remembered well the 4th of February
last, when Mr. Burton, the prisoner, called at the house. Witness was dusting in an apartment
close to her master's business-room, from which it was only separated by a thin wooden partition.
The door was partly open, and she could see as well as hear what was going on without being
seen herself. She heard the conversation between the prisoner and her master; heard Mr. Hornby
agree to sign the paper--bill she ought to say--for two hundred and fifty pounds; saw him do
it, and then deliver it folded up to Mr. Burton."

A shout of execration burst from the auditory as these words were uttered, and every eye was
turned to the spot where Hornby had been seated. He had disappeared during the previous confusion.

"Silence!" exclaimed the judge sternly. "Why, woman," he added, "have you never spoken of this
before?"

"Because, my lord," replied the witness with downcast looks, and in a low, broken voice--"because
I am a sinful, wicked creature. When my master, the day after Mr. Burton had been taken up,
discovered that I knew his secret, he bribed me with money and great promises of more to silence.
I had been nearly all my life, gentlemen, poor and miserable, almost an outcast, and the temptation
was too strong for me. He mistrusted me, however--for my mind, he saw, was sore troubled--and
he sent me off to London yesterday, to be out of the way till all was over. The coach stopped
at Leeds, and, as it was heavy upon me, I thought, especially as it was the blessed Easter-time,
that I would step to the chapel. His holy name be praised that I did! The scales seemed to
fall from my eyes, and I saw clearer than I had before the terrible wickedness I was committing.
I told all to the priest, and he has brought me here to make what amends I can for the sin
and cruelty of which I have been guilty. There--there is all that is left of the wages of crime,"
she added, throwing a purse of money on the floor of the court; and then bursting into a flood
of tears, she exclaimed with passionate earnestness, "for which may the Almighty of his infinite
mercy pardon and absolve me!"

"Amen!" responded the deep husky voice of the prisoner, snatched back, as it were, from the
very verge of the grave to liberty and life. "Amen, with all my soul!"

The counsel for the crown, cross-examined the witness, but his efforts only brought out her
evidence in, if possible, a still clearer and more trustworthy light. Not a thought of doubt
was entertained by any person in the court, and the jury, with the alacrity of men relieved
of a grievous burthen, and without troubling the judge to resume his interrupted charge, returned
a verdict of acquittal.

The return of Burton to his home figured as an ovation in the Pool and Otley annals. The greetings
which met him on all sides were boisterous and hearty, as English greetings usually are; and
it was with some difficulty the rustic constabulary could muster a sufficient force to save
Hornby's domicile from sack and destruction. All the windows were, however, smashed, and that
the mob felt was something at all events.

Burton profited by the painful ordeal to which he had, primarily through his own thoughtlessness,
been exposed, and came in a few years to be regarded as one of the most prosperous yeomen-farmers
of Yorkshire. Mr. Frank Symonds' union with Elizabeth Burton was in due time solemnized; Mr.
Wilberforce, the then popular member for the West Riding, I remember hearing, stood sponsor
to their eldest born; and Mary McGrath passed the remainder of her life in the service of the
family her testimony had saved from disgrace and ruin.

Mr. James Hornby disappeared from Yorkshire immediately after the trial, and, except through
his business agents, was not again heard of till the catastrophe at the Brunswick Theatre,
where he perished. He died penitent, after expressing to Mr. Frank Symonds, for whom he had
sent, his deep sorrow for the evil deed he had planned, and, but for a merciful interposition,
would have accomplished. As a proof of the sincerity of his repentance, he bequeathed the bulk
of his property to Mrs. Symonds, the daughter of the man he had pursued with such savage and
relentless hate!

THE REFUGEE.

The events which I am about to relate occurred towards the close of the last century, some
time before I was called to the bar, and do not therefore in strictness fall within my own
experiences as a barrister. Still, as they came to my knowledge with much greater completeness
than if I had been only professionally engaged to assist in the catastrophe of the drama through
which they are evolved, and, as I conceive, throw a strong light upon the practical working
of our criminal jurisprudence, a brief page of these slight leaves may not inappropriately
record them.

About the time I have indicated, a Mrs. Rushton, the widow of a gentleman of commercial opulence,
resided in Upper Harley Street, Cavendish Square. She was a woman of "family," and by her marriage
had greatly lowered herself, in her relatives' opinion, by a union with a person who, however
wealthy and otherwise honorable, was so entirely the architect of his own fortunes--owed all
that he possessed so immediately to his own skill, sagacity, and perseverance--that there was
an unpleasant rumor abroad about his widowed mother being indebted to her son's success in
business for having passed the last ten years of her life in ease and competence. Mr. Rushton
had left his widow a handsome annuity, and to his and her only son a well-invested income of
upwards of seven thousand a year. Since the death of her husband, Mrs. Rushton, who inherited
quite her full share of family pride, if nothing else, had sought by every method she could
devise to re-enter the charmed circle from which her union with a city merchant had excluded
her. The most effectual mode of accomplishing her purpose was, she knew, to bring about a marriage
between her son and a lady who would not be indisposed to accept of wealth and a well-appointed
establishment in Mayfair as a set-off against birth and high connection.

Arthur Rushton, at this time between two and three-and-twenty years of age, was a mild, retiring,
rather shy person, and endowed with a tenderness of disposition, of which the tranquil depths
had not as yet been ruffled by the faintest breath of passion. His mother possessed almost
unbounded influence over him; and he ever listened with a smile, a languid, half-disdainful
one, to her eager speculations upon the numerous eligible matches that would present themselves
the instant the "season" and their new establishment in Mayfair--of which the decoration and
furnishing engaged all her available time and attention--enabled them to open the campaign
with effect. Arthur Rushton and myself had been college companions, and our friendly intimacy
continued for several years afterwards. At this period especially we were very cordial and
unreserved in our intercourse with each other.

London at this time was crowded with French exiles, escaped from the devouring sword of Robespierre
and his helpers in the work of government by the guillotine, almost all of whom claimed to
be members of, or closely connected with, the ancient nobility of France. Among these was an
elderly gentleman of the name of De Tourville, who, with his daughter Eugénie, had for a considerable
time occupied a first floor in King Street, Holborn. Him I never saw in life, but Mademoiselle
de Tourville was one of the most accomplished, graceful, enchantingly-interesting persons I
have ever seen or known. There was a dangerous fascination in the pensive tenderness through
which her natural gaiety and archness of manner would at intervals flash, like April sunlight
glancing through clouds and showers, which, the first time I saw her, painfully impressed as
much as it charmed me--perceiving, as I quickly did, that with her the future peace, I could
almost have said life, of Arthur Rushton was irrevocably bound up. The fountains of his heart
were for the first time stirred to their inmost depths, and, situated as he and she were, what
but disappointment, bitterness, and anguish could well-up from those troubled waters? Mademoiselle
de Tourville, I could perceive, was fully aware of the impression she had made upon the sensitive
and amiable Englishman; and I sometimes discovered an expression of pity--of sorrowful tenderness,
as it were--pass over her features as some distincter revelation than usual of the nature of
Arthur Rushton's emotions flashed upon her. I also heard her express herself several times,
as overtly as she could, upon the impossibility there existed that she should, however much
she might desire it, settle in England, or even remain in it for any considerable length of
time. All this I understood, or thought I did, perfectly; but Rushton, bewildered, entranced
by feelings altogether new to him, saw nothing, heard nothing but her presence, and felt, without
reasoning upon it, that in that delirious dream it was his fate either to live or else to bear
no life. Mrs. Rushton--and this greatly surprised me--absorbed in her matrimonial and furnishing
schemes and projects, saw nothing of what was going on. Probably the notion that her son should
for an instant think of allying himself with an obscure, portionless foreigner, was, to a mind
like hers, too absurd to be for a moment entertained; or--But stay; borne along by a crowd
of rushing thoughts, I have, I find, somewhat anticipated the regular march of my narrative.

M. and Mademoiselle de Tourville, according to the after-testimony of their landlord, Mr. Osborn,
had, from the time of their arrival in England, a very constant visitor at their lodgings in
King Street. He was a tall French gentleman, of perhaps thirty years of age, and distinguished
appearance. His name was La Houssaye. He was very frequently with them indeed, and generally
he and M. de Tourville would go out together in the evening, the latter gentleman not returning
home till very late. This was more especially the case after Mademoiselle de Tourville ceased
to reside with her father.

Among the fashionable articles with which Mrs. Rushton was anxious to surround herself, was
a companion of accomplishments and high-breeding, who might help her to rub off the rust she
feared to have contracted by her connection with the city. A Parisian lady of high lineage
and perfect breeding might, she thought, be easily obtained; and an advertisement brought Mademoiselle
de Tourville to her house. Mrs. Rushton was delighted with the air and manners of the charming
applicant; and after a slight inquiry by letter to an address of reference given by the young
lady, immediately engaged her, on exceedingly liberal terms, for six months--that being the
longest period for which Mademoiselle de Tourville could undertake to remain. She also stipulated
for permission to pass the greater part of one day in the week--that which might happen to
be most convenient to Mrs. Rushton--with her father. One other condition testified alike to
M. de Tourville's present poverty and her own filial piety: it was, that her salary should
be paid weekly--she would not accept it in advance--avowedly for her parent's necessities,
who, poor exile! and tears stood in Eugénie's dark lustrous eyes as she spoke, was ever trembling
on the brink of the grave from an affection of the heart with which he had been long afflicted.
Mademoiselle de Tourville, I should state, spoke English exceedingly well as far as the rules
of syntax and the meanings of words went, and with an accent charming in its very defectiveness.

She had resided with Mrs. Rushton, who on all occasions treated her with the greatest kindness
and consideration, for rather more than two months, when an incident occurred which caused
the scales to fall suddenly from the astonished mother's eyes, and in a moment revealed to
her the extent of the risk and mischief she had so heedlessly incurred. The carriage was at
the door, and it struck Mrs. Rushton as she was descending the stairs that Mademoiselle de
Tourville, who had complained of headache in the morning, would like to take an airing with
her. The sound of the harp issuing from the drawing-room, and the faintly-distinguished tones
of her voice in some plaintive silver melody perhaps suggested the invitation; and thither
the mistress of the mansion at once proceeded. The folding-doors of the back drawing-room were
partially open when Mrs. Rushton, on kind thoughts intent, entered the front apartment. Mademoiselle
de Tourville was seated with her back towards her at the harp, pouring forth with her thrilling
and delicious voice a French romaunt; and there, with his head supported on his elbow, which
rested on the marble chimney-piece, stood her son, Arthur Rushton, gazing at the apparently-unconscious
songstress with a look so full of devoted tenderness--so completely revealing the intensity
of passion by which he was possessed--that Mrs. Rushton started with convulsive affright, and
could not for several minutes give articulation to the dismay and rage which choked her utterance
Presently, however, her emotions found expression, and a storm of vituperative abuse was showered
upon the head of the astonished Eugénie, designated as an artful intrigante, a designing pauper,
who had insinuated herself into the establishment for the sole purpose of entrapping Mr. Arthur
Rushton--with a great deal more to the same effect. Mademoiselle de Tourville, who had first
been too much surprised by the unexpected suddenness of the attack to quite comprehend the
intent and direction of the blows, soon recovered her self-possession and hauteur. A smile
of contempt curled her beautiful lip, as, taking advantage of a momentary pause in Mrs. Rushton's
breathless tirade, she said, "Permit me, madam, to observe that if, as you seem to apprehend,
your son has contemplated honoring me by the offer of an alliance with his ancient House"--Her
look at this moment glanced upon the dreadfully agitated young man; the expression of disdainful
bitterness vanished in an instant from her voice and features; and after a few moments, she
added, with sad eyes bent upon the floor, "That he could not have made a more unhappy choice--more
unfortunate for him, more impossible for me!" She then hastily left the apartment, and before
a quarter of an hour had elapsed, had left the house in a hackney-coach.

The scene which followed between the mother and son was a violent and distressing one. Mr.
Rushton, goaded to fury by his mother's attack upon Mademoiselle de Tourville, cast off the
habit of deference and submission which he had always worn in her presence, and asserted with
vehemence his right to wed with whom he pleased, and declared that no power on earth should
prevent him marrying the lady just driven ignominiously from the house if she could be brought
to accept the offer of his hand and fortune! Mrs. Rushton fell into passionate hysterics; and
her son, having first summoned her maid, withdrew to ruminate on Mademoiselle de Tourville's
concluding sentence, which troubled him far more that what he deemed the injustice of his mother.

When Mrs. Rushton, by the aid of water, pungent essences, and the relief which even an hour
of time seldom fails to yield in such cases, had partially recovered her equanimity, she determined,
after careful consideration of the best course of action, to consult a solicitor of eminence,
well acquainted with her late husband, upon the matter. She had a dim notion that the Alien
Act, if it could be put in motion, might rid her of Mademoiselle de Tourville and her friends.
Thus resolving, and ever scrupulous as to appearances, she carefully smoothed her ruffled plumage,
changed her disordered dress, and directed the carriage, which had been dismissed, to be again
brought round to the door. "Mary," she added a few moments afterwards, "bring me my jewel-case--the
small one: you will find it in Made--in that French person's dressing-room."

Mary Austin reappeared in answer to the violent ringing of her impatient lady's bell, and stated
that the jewel-case could nowhere be found in Mademoiselle's dressing-room. "Her clothes, everything
belonging to her, had been taken out of the wardrobe, and carried away, and perhaps that also
in mistake no doubt."

"Nonsense, woman!" replied Mrs. Rushton. "I left it not long ago on her toilet-glass. I intended
to show her a purchase I had made, and not finding her, left it as I tell you."

Another search was made with the same ill-success. Mary Austin afterwards said that when she
returned to her mistress the second time, to say that the jewel-case was certainly gone, an
expression of satisfaction instead of anger, it seemed to her, glanced across Mrs. Rushton's
face, who immediately left the room, and in a few minutes afterwards was driven off in the
carriage.

About an hour after her departure I called in Harley Street for Arthur Rushton, with whom I
had engaged to go this evening to the theatre to witness Mrs. Siddons's Lady Macbeth, which
neither of us had yet seen. I found him in a state of calmed excitement, if I may so express
myself; and after listening with much interest to the minute account he gave me of what had
passed, I, young and inexperienced as I was in such affairs, took upon myself to suggest that,
as the lady he nothing doubted was as irreproachable in character as she was confessedly charming
and attractive in person and manners, and as he was unquestionably his own master, Mrs. Rushton's
opposition was not likely to be of long continuance; and that as to Mademoiselle de Tourville's
somewhat discouraging expression, such sentences from the lips of ladies--

    "That would be wooed, and not unsought be won"--

were seldom, if ever, I had understood, to be taken in a literal and positive sense. Under
this mild and soothing treatment, Mr. Rushton gradually threw off a portion of the load that
oppressed him, and we set off in tolerably cheerful mood for the theatre.

Mrs. Siddons' magnificent and appalling impersonation over, we left the house; he, melancholy
and sombre as I had found him in Harley Street, and I in by no means a gay or laughing mood.
We parted at my door, and whether it was the effect of the tragedy, so wonderfully realized
in its chief creation, or whether coming events do sometimes cast their shadows before, I cannot
say, but I know that an hour after Rushton's departure I was still sitting alone, my brain
throbbing with excitement, and so nervous and impressionable, that a sudden, vehement knocking
at the street entrance caused me to spring up from my chair with a terrified start, and before
I could master the impulsive emotion, the room-door was thrown furiously open, and in reeled
Arthur Rushton--pale, haggard, wild--his eyes ablaze with horror and affright! Had the ghost
of Duncan suddenly gleamed out of the viewless air I could not have been more startled--awed!

"She is dead!--poisoned!" he shrieked with maniacal fury; "killed!--murdered!--and by her!"

I gasped for breath, and could hardly articulate--"What! whom?"

"My mother!" he shouted with the same furious vehemence--"Killed! by her! Oh, horror!--horror!--horror!"
and exhausted by the violence of his emotions, the unfortunate gentleman staggered, shuddered
violently, as if shaken by an ague fit, and fell heavily--for I was too confounded to yield
him timely aid--on the floor.

As soon as I could rally my scattered senses, I caused medical aid to be summoned, and got
him to bed. Blood was freely taken from both arms, and he gradually recovered consciousness.
Leaving him in kind and careful hands, I hurried off to ascertain what possible foundation
there could be for the terrible tidings so strangely announced.

I found the establishment in Harley Street in a state of the wildest confusion and dismay.
Mrs. Rushton was dead; that, at all events, was no figment of sudden insanity, and incredible,
impossible rumors were flying from mouth to mouth with bewildering rapidity and incoherence.
The name of Mademoiselle de Tourville was repeated in every variety of abhorrent emphasis;
but it was not till I obtained an interview with Mrs. Rushton's solicitor that I could understand
what really had occurred, or, to speak more properly, what was suspected. Mrs. Rushton had
made a deposition, of which Mr. Twyte related to me the essential points. The deceased lady
had gone out in her carriage with the express intention of calling on him, the solicitor, to
ascertain if it would be possible to apply the Alien Act to Mademoiselle de Tourville and her
father, in order to get them sent out of the country. How long will it last? The PRIME MINISTER
told one of his supporters that he hoped next year's programme would be less exacting, and
immediately promised another measure dealing with dumping and exchange; and when Sir F. BANBURY
helpfully suggested that the surest way to avoid an Autumn Session would be to introduce fewer
Bills Mr. BONAR LAW turned on him with the retort that "a surer way would be to introduce none."

An
amusing duel between well-matched opponents took place over liquor control. Mr. MACQUISTEN,
whose voice, at once insinuating and penetrative, has been likened to a corkscrew, urged that
the bonâ-fide frequenters of public-houses should be consulted in the settlement of the drink
regulations. The present arrangement, in his view, was like entrusting the regulation of the Churches
to avowed atheists. Lady ASTOR made full use of her shrill treble in retorting that it was
the "victims"--by which apparently she meant the wives of Mr. MACQUISTEN'S protégés--who ought
to have the last word. She herself had it in the series of incredulous "Oh's!"--uttered crescendo
on a rising scale and accompanied by appropriate gesture--with which she received Mr. MACQUISTEN'S
confident assertion that the working-men's clubs are the enemies of "the Trade."

Supplementary Estimates produced a good deal of miscellaneous information. On the Vote for Road
Transport Colonel MILDMAY attacked the system of tar-spraying and told a melancholy story of
a cow that skidded with fatal results. He was backed up by Sir F. BANBURY, who said that he
had found the ideal pavement in soft wood and awakened memories of an ancient jest by suggesting
that something might be done if he and the MINISTER OF TRANSPORT were to put their heads together.

Tuesday,
December 21st.--Sir WILLIAM DAVISON thundered against the Home Office for not taking steps to
prevent the desecration of the Nelson Column by the delivery of seditious speeches. Sir JOHN
BAIRD explained that it was impossible to know beforehand what sort
of speech was going to be delivered. The taste was strange, but not unpleasant;
and instantly afterwards Mrs. Rushton left the house. When the carriage reached Harley Street,
she was found to be in a state of great prostration: powerful stimulants were administered,
but her life was beyond the reach of medicine. She survived just long enough to depose to the
foregoing particulars; upon which statement Mademoiselle de Tourville had been arrested, and
was now in custody.

"You seem to have been very precipitate," I exclaimed as soon as the solicitor had ceased speaking:
"there appears to be as yet no proof that the deceased lady died of other than natural causes."

"You are mistaken," rejoined Mr. Twyte. "There is no doubt on the subject in the minds of the
medical gentlemen, although the post-mortem examination has not yet taken place. And, as if
to put aside all doubt, the bottle from which this Eugénie de Tourville admits she took the
cordial proves to contain distilled laurel-water, a deadly poison, curiously colored and flavored."

Greatly perturbed, shocked, astonished as I was, my mind refused to admit, even for a moment,
the probability, hardly the possibility, of Eugénie de Tourville's guilt. The reckless malignancy
of spirit evinced by so atrocious an act dwelt not, I was sure, within that beauteous temple.
The motives alleged to have actuated her--fear of a criminal charge, admitted to be absurd,
and desire to rid herself of an obstacle to her marriage with Arthur Rushton--seemed to me
altogether strained and inapplicable. The desperation of unreasoning hate could alone have
prompted such a deed; for detection was inevitable, had, in truth, been courted rather than
attempted to be avoided.

My reasoning made no change in the conclusions of Mr. Twyte the attorney for the prosecution,
and I hastened home to administer such consolation to Arthur Rushton as might consist in the
assurance of my firm conviction that his beloved mother's life had not been wilfully taken
away by Eugénie de Tourville. I found him still painfully agitated; and the medical attendant
told me it was feared by Dr. ---- that brain fever would supervene if the utmost care was not
taken to keep him as quiet and composed as, under the circumstances, was possible. I was, however,
permitted a few minutes' conversation with him; and my reasoning, or, more correctly, my confidently-expressed
belief--for his mind seemed incapable of following my argument, which it indeed grasped faintly
at, but slipped from, as it were, in an instant--appeared to relieve him wonderfully. I also
promised him that no legal or pecuniary assistance should be wanting in the endeavor to clear
Mademoiselle de Tourville of the dreadful imputation preferred against her. I then left him.
The anticipation of the physician was unfortunately realized: the next morning he was in a
raging fever, and his life, I was informed, was in very imminent danger.

It was a distracting time; but I determinedly, and with much self-effort, kept down the nervous
agitation which might have otherwise rendered me incapable of fulfilling the duties I had undertaken
to perform. By eleven o'clock in the forenoon I had secured the active and zealous services
of Mr. White, one of the most celebrated of the criminal attorneys of that day. By application
in the proper quarter, we obtained immediate access to the prisoner, who was temporarily confined
in a separate room in the Red-Lion Square Lock-up House. Mademoiselle de Tourville, although
exceedingly pale, agitated, and nervous, still looked as lustrously pure, as radiantly innocent
of evil thought or deed, as on the day that I first beheld her. The practiced eye of the attorney
scanned her closely. "As innocent of this charge," he whispered, "as you or I." I tendered
my services to the unfortunate young lady with an earnestness of manner which testified more
than any words could have done how entirely my thoughts acquitted her of offence. Her looks
thanked me; and when I hinted at the promise exacted of me by Arthur Rushton, a bright blush
for an instant mantled the pale marble of her cheeks and forehead, indicating with the tears,
which suddenly filled and trembled in her beautiful eyes, a higher sentiment, I thought, than
mere gratitude. She gave us her unreserved confidence; by which, after careful sifting, we
obtained only the following by no means entirely satisfactory results:--

Mademoiselle de Tourville and her father had escaped from the Terrorists of France by the aid
of, and in company with, the Chevalier la Houssaye, with whom M. de Tourville had previously
had but very slight acquaintance. The chevalier soon professed a violent admiration for Eugénie;
and having contrived to lay M. de Tourville under heavy pecuniary obligations at play--many
of them Mademoiselle de Tourville had only very lately discovered--prevailed upon his debtor
to exert his influence with his daughter to accept La Houssaye's hand in marriage. After much
resistance, Mademoiselle de Tourville, overcome by the commands, entreaties, prayers of her
father, consented, but only on condition that the marriage should not take place till their
return to France, which it was thought need not be very long delayed, and that no more money
obligations should in the meantime be incurred by her father. La Houssaye vehemently objected
to delay; but finding Eugénie inexorable, sullenly acquiesced. It was precisely at this time
that the engagement with Mrs. Rushton was accepted. On the previous afternoon Mademoiselle
de Tourville, on leaving Harley Street after the scene with the deceased lady, went directly
home, and there found both her father and the chevalier in hot contention and excitement. As
soon as La Houssaye saw her, he seized his hat, and rushed out of the apartment and house.
Her father, who was greatly excited, had barely time to say that he had fortunately discovered
the chevalier to be a married man, whose wife, a woman of property, was still living in Languedoc,
when what had always been predicted would follow any unusual agitation happened: M. de Tourville
suddenly placed his hand on his side, uttered a broken exclamation, fell into a chair, and
expired. It was about two hours after this melancholy event that Mrs. Rushton arrived. The
account before given of the interview which followed was substantially confirmed by Mademoiselle
de Tourville; who added, that the cordial she had given Mrs. Rushton was one her father was
in the constant habit of taking when in the slightest degree excited, and that she was about
to give him some when he suddenly fell dead.

We had no doubt, none whatever, that this was the whole, literal truth, as far as the knowledge
of Mademoiselle de Tourville extended; but how could we impart that impression to an Old Bailey
jury of those days, deprived as we should be of the aid of counsel to address the jury, when
in reality a speech, pointing to the improbabilities arising from character, and the altogether
unguilty-like mode of administering the fatal liquid, was the only possible defence? Cross-examination
promised nothing; for the evidence would consist of the dying deposition of Mrs. Rushton, the
finding of the laurel-water, and the medical testimony as to the cause of death. The only person
upon whom suspicion glanced was La Houssaye, and that in a vague and indistinct manner. Still,
it was necessary to find him without delay, and Mr. White at once sought him at his lodgings,
of which Mademoiselle de Tourville furnished the address. He had left the house suddenly with
all his luggage early in the morning, and our efforts to trace him proved fruitless. In the
meantime the post-mortem examination of the body had taken place, and a verdict of willful
murder against Eugénie de Tourville been unhesitatingly returned. She was soon afterwards committed
to Newgate for trial.

The Old Bailey session was close at hand, and Arthur Rushton, though immediate danger was over,
was still in too delicate and precarious a state to be informed of the true position of affairs
when the final day of trial arrived. The case had excited little public attention. It was not
the fashion in those days to exaggerate the details of crime, and, especially before trial,
give the wings of the morning to every fact or fiction that rumor with her busy tongue obscurely
whispered. Twenty lines of the "Times" would contain the published record of the commitment
of Eugénie de Tourville for poisoning her mistress, Caroline Rushton; and, alas! spite of the
crippled but earnest efforts of the eminent counsel we had retained, and the eloquent innocence
of her appearance and demeanor, her conviction and condemnation to death without hope of mercy!
My brain swam as the measured tones of the recorder, commanding the almost immediate and violent
destruction of that beauteous masterpiece of God, fell upon my ear; and had not Mr. White,
who saw how greatly I was affected, fairly dragged me out of court into the open air, I should
have fainted. I scarcely remember how I got home--in a coach, I believe; but face Rushton after
that dreadful scene with a kindly-meant deception--lie--in my mouth, I could not, had a king's
crown been the reward. I retired to my chamber, and on the plea of indisposition directed that
I should on no account be disturbed. Night had fallen, and it was growing somewhat late, when
I was startled out of the painful reverie in which I was still absorbed by the sudden pulling
up of a furiously-driven coach, followed by a thundering summons at the door, similar to that
which aroused me on the evening of Mrs. Rushton's death. I seized my hat, rushed down stairs,
and opened the door. It was Mr. White!

"Well!--well!" I ejaculated.

"Quick--quick!" he exclaimed in reply. "La Houssaye--he is found--has sent for us--quick! for
life--life is on our speed!"

I was in the vehicle in an instant. In less than ten minutes we had reached our destination--a
house in Duke Street, Manchester Square.

"He is still alive," replied a young man in answer to Mr. White's hurried inquiry. We rapidly
ascended the stairs, and in the front apartment of the first floor beheld one of the saddest,
mournfulest spectacles which the world can offer--a fine, athletic man, still in the bloom
of natural health and vigor, and whose pale features, but for the tracings there of fierce,
ungoverned passions, were strikingly handsome and intellectual, stretched by his own act upon
the bed of death! It was La Houssaye! Two gentlemen were with him--one a surgeon, and the other
evidently a clergyman, and, as I subsequently found, a magistrate, who had been sent for by
the surgeon. A faint smile gleamed over the face of the dying man as we entered, and he motioned
feebly to a sheet of paper, which, closely written upon, was lying upon a table placed near
the sofa upon which the unhappy suicide was reclining. Mr. White snatched, and eagerly perused
it. I could see by the vivid lighting up of his keen gray eye that it was, in his opinion,
satisfactory and sufficient.

"This," said Mr. White, "is your solemn deposition, knowing yourself to be dying?"

"Yes, yes," murmured La Houssaye; "the truth--the truth!"

"The declaration of a man," said the clergyman with some asperity of tone, "who defyingly,
unrepentingly, rushes into the presence of his Creator, can be of little value!"

"Ha!" said the dying man, rousing himself by a strong effort; "I repent--yes--yes--I repent!
I believe--do you hear?--and repent--believe. Put that down," he added, in tones momently feebler
and more husky, as he pointed to the paper; "put that down, or--or perhaps--Eu--génie--perhaps"--

As he spoke, the faint light that had momently kindled his glazing eye was suddenly quenched;
he remained for perhaps half a minute raised on his elbow, and with his outstretched finger
pointing towards the paper, gazing blindly upon vacancy. Then the arm dropped, and he fell
back dead!

We escaped as quickly as we could from this fearful death-room, and I found that the deposition
which Mr. White brought away with him gave a full, detailed account, written in the French
language, of the circumstances which led to the death of Mrs. Rushton.

La Houssaye, finding that M. de Tourville had by some means discovered the secret of his previous
marriage, and that consequently all hope of obtaining the hand of Eugénie, whom he loved with
all the passion of his fiery nature, would be gone unless De Tourville could be prevented from
communicating with his daughter, resolved to compass the old man's instant destruction. The
chevalier persuaded himself that, as he should manage it, death would be attributed to the
affection of the heart, from which M. de Tourville had so long suffered. He procured the distilled
laurel-water--how and from whom was minutely explained--colored, flavored it to resemble as
nearly as possible the cordial which he knew M. de Tourville--and he only--was in the habit
of frequently taking. A precisely-similar bottle he also procured--the shop at which it was
purchased was described--and when he called in King Street, he found no difficulty, in an unobserved
moment, of substituting one bottle for the other. That containing the real cordial he was still
in possession of, and it would be found in his valise The unexpected arrival of Mademoiselle
de Tourville frustrated his design, and he rushed in fury and dismay from the house. A few
hours afterwards, he heard of the sudden death of M. de Tourville, and attributing it to his
having taken a portion of the simulated cordial, he, La Houssaye, fearful of consequences,
hastily and secretly changed his abode. He had subsequently kept silence till the conviction
of Eugénie left him no other alternative, if he would not see her perish on the scaffold, than
a full and unreserved confession. This done--Eugénie saved, but lost to him--he had nothing
more to live for in the world, and should leave it.

This was the essence of the document; and all the parts of it which were capable of corroborative
proof having been substantiated, a free pardon issued from the crown--the technical mode of
quashing an unjust criminal verdict--and Mademoiselle de Tourville was restored to liberty.

She did not return to France. Something more perhaps than a year after the demonstration of
her innocence, she was married to Arthur Rushton in the Sardinian Catholic Chapel, London,
the bridegroom having by her influence been induced to embrace the faith of Rome. The establishments
in Harley Street and Mayfair were broken up; and the newly-espoused pair settled in the county
of Galway, Ireland, where Mr. Rushton made extensive landed purchases. They have lived very
happily a long life, have been blessed with a large and amiable family, and are now--for they
are both yet alive--surrounded with grandchildren innumerable.

EXPERIENCES OF A BARRISTER.

THE LIFE POLICY.

Besides being the confidential advisers, attorneys are the "confessors" of modern England;
and the revelations--delicate, serious, not unfrequently involving life as well as fortune
and character--confided to the purchased fidelity and professional honor of men whom romancers
of all ages have stereotyped as the ghouls and vampires of civilized society, are, it is impossible
to deny, as rarely divulged as those which the penitents of the Greek and Latin churches impart
to their spiritual guides and helpers; and this possibly for the somewhat vulgar, but very
sufficient reason, that "a breach of confidence" would as certainly involve the professional
ruin of an attorney as the commission of a felony. An able but eccentric jurisconsult, Mr.
Jeremy Bentham, was desirous that attorneys should be compelled to disclose on oath whatever
guilty secrets might be confided to them by their clients; the only objection to which ingenious
device for the conviction of rogues being, that if such a power existed, there would be no
secrets to disclose; and, as a necessary consequence, that the imperfectly-informed attorney
would be unable to render his client the justice to which every person, however criminal, is
clearly entitled--that of having his or her case presented before the court appointed to decide
upon it in the best and most advantageous manner possible. Let it not be forgotten either that
the attorney is the only real, practical defender of the humble and needy against the illegal
oppressions of the rich and powerful--the shrewd, indomitable agent who gives prosaic reality
to the figurative eloquence of old Chancellor Fortescue, when he says, "that the lightning
may flash through, the thunder shake, the tempest beat, upon the English peasant's hut, but
the king of England, with all his army, cannot lift the latch to enter in." The chancellor
of course meant, that in this country overbearing violence cannot defy, or put itself in the
place of the law. This is quite true; and why? Chiefly because the attorney is ready, in all
cases of provable illegality, with his potent strip of parchment summoning the great man before
"her Sovereign Lady the Queen," there to answer for his acts; and the richer the offender,
the more keen and eager Mr. Attorney to prosecute the suit, however needy his own client; for
he is then sure of his costs, if he succeed! Again, I cheerfully admit the extreme vulgarity
of the motive; but its effect in protecting the legal rights of the humble is not, I contend,
lessened because the reward of exertion and success is counted out in good, honest sovereigns,
or notes of the Governor and Company of the Bank of England.

Thus much by way of conciliatory prologue to the narrative of a few incidents revealed in the
attorney's privileged confessional; throughout which I have of course, in order to avoid any
possible recognition of those events or incidents, changed the name of every person concerned.

Our old city firm, then, which, I am happy to say, still flourishes under the able direction
of our active successors, I will call--adopting the nomenclature appropriated to us by imaginative
ladies and gentlemen who favor the world with fancy pen-and-ink portraits of the lawyer tribe--that
of Flint and Sharp; Sharp being myself, and Flint the silver-haired old bachelor we buried
a few weeks since in Kensal Green Cemetery.

"Mr. Andrews," said a clerk as he threw open the door of the inner office one afternoon; "Mr.
Jesse Andrews."

"Good-day, Mr. Andrews," was my prompt and civil greeting: "I have good news for you. Take
a chair."

The good-humored, rather intelligent, and somewhat clouded countenance of the new-comer brightened
up at these words. "News from my Cousin Archibald?" he asked, as he seated himself.

"Yes: He laments your late failure, and commiserates the changed position and prospects of
your wife and boy, little Archibald, his godson. You he has not much compassion for, inasmuch
as he attributes your misfortunes entirely to mismanagement, and the want of common prudence."

"Candid, certainly," grumbled out Mr. Jesse Andrews; "but an odd sort of good news!"

"His deeds are kinder than his words. He will allow, till Archibald attains his majority--Let
me see--how old is that boy of yours now?"

"Ten. He was two years old when his godfather went to India."

"Well, then, you will receive two hundred pounds per annum, payable half-yearly, in advance,
for the next ten years--that is, of course, if your son lives--in order to enable you to bring
him up, and educate him properly. After that period has elapsed, your cousin intimates that
he will place the young man advantageously, and I do not doubt will do something for you, should
you not by that time have conquered a fair position for yourself."

"Is that all?" said Mr. Andrews.

"All! Why, what did you expect?"

"Two or three thousand pounds to set me afloat again. I know of a safe speculation, that with,
say three thousand pounds capital, would realize a handsome fortune in no time."

Mr. Jesse Andrews, I may observe, was one of that numerous class of persons who are always
on the threshold of realizing millions--the only and constant obstacle being the want of a
sufficient "capital."

I condoled with him upon his disappointment; but as words, however civil, avail little in the
way of "capital," Mr. Jesse Andrews, having pocketed the first half-yearly installment of the
annuity, made his exit in by no means a gracious or grateful frame of mind.

Two other half-yearly payments were duly paid him. When he handed me the receipt on the last
occasion, he said, in a sort of off-hand, careless way, "I suppose, if Archy were to die, these
payments would cease?"

"Perhaps not," I replied unthinkingly. "At all events, not, I should say, till you and your
wife were in some way provided for. But your son is not ill?" I added.

"No, no; not at present," replied Andrews, coloring, and with a confusion of manner which surprised
me not a little. It flashed across my mind that the boy was dead, and that Andrews, in order
not to risk the withdrawal or suspension of the annuity, had concealed the fact from us.

"Let me see," I resumed, "we have your present address--Norton Folgate, I think?"

"Yes, certainly you have."

"I shall very likely call in a day or two to see Mrs. Andrew! and your son."

The man smiled in a reassured, half-sardonic manner. "Do," he answered. "Archy is alive, and
very well, thank God!"

This confidence dispelled the suspicion I had momentarily entertained, and five or six weeks
passed away, during which Andrews and his affairs were almost as entirely absent from my thoughts
as if no such man existed.

About the expiration of that time, Mr. Jesse Andrews unexpectedly revisited the office, and
as soon as I was disengaged, was ushered into my private room. He was habited in the deepest
mourning, and it naturally struck me that either his wife or son was dead--an impression, however,
which a closer examination of his countenance did not confirm, knowing as I did, how affectionate
a husband and father he was, with all his faults and follies, reputed to be. He looked flurried,
nervous, certainly; but there was no grief, no sorrow in the restless, disturbed glances which
he directed to the floor, the ceiling, the window, the fire-place, the chairs, the table--everywhere,
in fact, except towards my face.

"What is the matter, Mr. Andrews?" I gravely inquired, seeing that he did not appear disposed
to open the conversation.

"A great calamity, sir--a great calamity," he hurriedly and confusedly answered, his face still
persistently averted from me--"has happened! Archy is dead!"

"Dead!" I exclaimed, considerably shocked. "God bless me! when did this happen?"

"Three weeks ago," was the reply. "He died of cholera."

"Of cholera!" This occurred, I should state, in 1830.

"Yes: he was very assiduously attended throughout his sufferings, which were protracted and
severe, by the eminent Dr. Parkinson, a highly-respectable and skilled practitioner, as you
doubtless, sir, are aware."

I could not comprehend the man. This dry, unconcerned, business-sort of gabble was not the
language of a suddenly-bereaved parent, and one, too, who had lost a considerable annuity by
his son's death. What could it mean? I was in truth fairly puzzled.

After a considerable interval of silence, which Mr. Andrews, whose eyes continued to wander
in every direction except that of mine, showed no inclination to break, I said--"It will be
necessary for me to write immediately to your cousin, Mr. Archibald Andrews. I trust, for your
sake, the annuity will be continued; but of course, till I hear from him, the half-yearly payments
must be suspended."

"Certainly, certainly: I naturally expected that would be the case," said Andrews, still in
the same quick, hurried tone. "Quite so."

"You have nothing further to say, I suppose?" I remarked, after another dead pause, during
which it was very apparent that he was laboring with something to which he nervously hesitated
to give utterance.

"No--yes--that is, I wished to consult you upon a matter of business--connected with--with
a life-assurance office."

"A life-assurance office?"

"Yes." The man's pale face flushed crimson, and his speech became more and more hurried as
he went on. "Yes; fearing, Mr. Sharp, that should Archy die, we might be left without resource,
I resolved, after mature deliberation, to effect an insurance on his life for four thousand
pounds."

"Four thousand pounds!"

"Yes. All necessary preliminaries were gone through. The medical gentleman--since dead of the
cholera, by the way--examined the boy of course, and the insurance was legally effected for
four thousand pounds, payable at his death."

I did not speak; a suspicion too horrible to be hinted at held me dumb.

"Unfortunately," Andrews continued, "this insurance was only effected about a fortnight before
poor Archy's death, and the office refuses payment, although, as I have told you, the lad was
attended to the very hour of his death by Dr. Parkinson, a highly-respectable, most unexceptionable
gentleman. Very much so indeed."

"I quite agree in that," I answered after a while. "Dr. Parkinson is a highly-respectable and
eminent man. What reason," I added, "do the company assign for non-payment?"

"The very recent completion of the policy."

"Nonsense! How can that fact, standing alone, affect your claim?"

"I do not know," Andrews replied; and all this time I had not been able to look fairly in his
face; "but they do refuse; and I am anxious that your firm should take the matter in hand,
and sue them for the amount."

"I must first see Dr. Parkinson," I answered, "and convince myself that there is no legitimate
reason for repudiating the policy."

"Certainly, certainly," he replied.

"I will write to you to-morrow," I said, rising to terminate the conference, "after I have
seen Dr. Parkinson, and state whether we will or not take proceedings against the insurance
company on your behalf."

He thanked me, and hurried off.

Dr. Parkinson confirmed Mr. Jesse Andrews in every particular. He had attended the boy, a fine,
light-haired lad of eleven or twelve years of age, from not long after his seizure till his
death. He suffered dreadfully, and died unmistakably of Asiatic cholera, and of nothing else;
of which same disease a servant and a female lodger in the same house had died just previously.
"It is of course," Dr. Parkinson remarked in conclusion, "as unfortunate for the company as
it is strangely lucky for Andrews; but there is no valid reason for refusing payment."

Upon this representation we wrote the next day to the assurance people, threatening proceedings
on behalf of Mr. Jesse Andrews.

Early on the morrow one of the managing-directors called on us, to state the reasons which
induced the company to hesitate at recognizing the plaintiff's claim. In addition to the doubts
suggested by the brief time which had elapsed from the date of the policy to the death of the
child, there were several other slight circumstances of corroborative suspicion. The chief
of these was, that a neighbor had declared he heard the father indulging in obstreperous mirth
in a room adjoining that in which the corpse lay only about two hours after his son had expired.
This unseemly, scandalous hilarity of her husband, the wife appeared to faintly remonstrate
against. The directors had consequently resolved non obstante Dr. Parkinson's declaration,
who might, they argued, have been deceived, to have the body exhumed in order to a post-mortem
examination as to the true cause of death. If the parents voluntarily agreed to this course,
a judicial application to enforce it would be unnecessary, and all doubts on the matter could
be quietly set at rest. I thought the proposal, under the circumstances, reasonable, and called
on Mr. and Mrs. Andrews to obtain their concurrence. Mrs. Andrews was, I found, absent in the
country, but her husband was at home; and he, on hearing the proposal, was, I thought, a good
deal startled--shocked rather--a natural emotion perhaps.

"Who--who," he said, after a few moments' silent reflection--"who is to conduct this painful,
revolting inquiry?"

"Dr. Parkinson will be present, with Mr. Humphrey the surgeon, and Dr. Curtis the newly-appointed
physician to the assurance office, in place of Dr. Morgan who died, as you are aware, a short
time since of cholera."

"True. Ah, well, then," he answered almost with alacrity, "be it as they wish. Dr. Parkinson
will see fair-play."

The examination was effected, and the result was a confirmation, beyond doubt or quibble, that
death, as Dr. Parkinson had declared, had been solely occasioned by cholera. The assurance
company still hesitated; but as this conduct could now only be looked upon as perverse obstinacy,
we served them with a writ at once. They gave in; and the money was handed over to Mr. Jesse
Andrews, whose joy at his sudden riches did not, I was forced to admit, appear to be in the
slightest degree damped by any feeling of sadness for the loss of an only child.

We wrote to inform Mr. Archibald Andrews of these occurrences, and to request further instructions
with regard to the annuity hitherto paid to his cousin. A considerable time would necessarily
elapse before an answer could be received, and in the meantime Mr. Jesse Andrews plunged headlong
into the speculation he had been long hankering to engage in, and was as he informed me a few
weeks afterwards, on the royal road to a magnificent fortune.

Clouds soon gathered over this brilliant prospect. The partner, whose persuasive tongue and
brilliant imagination had induced Mr. Andrews to join him with his four thousand pounds, proved
to be an arrant cheat and swindler; and Mr. Andrews's application to us for legal help and
redress was just too late to prevent the accomplished dealer in moonshine and delusion from
embarking at Liverpool for America, with every penny of the partnership funds in his pockets!

A favorable reply from Mr. Archibald Andrews had now become a question of vital importance
to his cousin, who very impatiently awaited its arrival. It came at last. Mr. Andrews had died
rather suddenly at Bombay a short time before my letter arrived there, after executing in triplicate
a will, of which one of the copies was forwarded to me. By this instrument his property--about
thirty-five thousand pounds, the greatest portion of which had been remitted from time to time
for investment in the British funds--was disposed of as follows:--Five thousand pounds to his
cousin Jesse Andrews, for the purpose of educating and maintaining Archibald Andrews, the testator's
godson, till he should have attained the age of twentyone, and the whole of the remaining thirty
thousand pounds to be then paid over to Archibald with accumulated interest. In the event,
however, of the death of his godson, the entire property was devised to another more distant
and wealthier cousin, Mr. Newton, and his son Charles, on precisely similar conditions, with
the exception that an annuity of seventy pounds, payable to Jesse Andrews and his wife during
their lives, was charged upon it.

Two letters were dispatched the same evening--one to the fortunate cousin, Mr. Newton, who
lived within what was then known as the twopenny post delivery, and another to Mr. Jesse Andrews,
who had taken up his temporary abode in a cottage near St. Alban's, Hertfordshire. These missives
informed both gentlemen of the arrival of the Indian mail, and the, to them, important dispatches
it contained.

Mr. Newton was early at the office on the following morning, and perused the will with huge
content. He was really quite sorry, though, for poor Cousin Jesse: the loss of his son was
a sad stroke, much worse than this of a fortune which he might have expected to follow as a
matter of course. And the annuity, Mr. Newton thoughtfully observed, was, after all, no contemptible
provision for two persons, without family, and of modest requirements.

A very different scene was enacted when, late in the evening, and just as I was about to leave
the office, Mr. Jesse Andrews rushed in, white as a sheet, haggard, and wild with passion.
"What devil's fables are these you write me?" he, burst forth the instant he had gained the
threshold of the room. "How dare you," he went on, almost shrieking with fury--"how dare you
attempt to palm off these accursed lies on me? Archy rich--rich--and I--. But it is a lie!--an
infernal device got up to torture me--to drive me wild, distracted--mad!" The excited man literally
foamed with rage, and so astonished was I, that it was a minute or two before I could speak
or move.

At last I rose, closed the door, (for the clerks in the outer office were hearers and witnesses
of this outbreak,) and led the way to an inner and more private apartment. "Come with me, Mr.
Andrews," I said, "and let us talk this matter calmly over."

He mechanically followed, threw himself into a chair, and listened with frenzied impatience
to the reading of the will. 

It appeared that one of them was a Buff Orpington and three were white Wyandottes and one had
no particular politics. I should say now that it was an Independent. It has speckles and is the
one that keeps getting into the garden. Fool, villain, madman that I have been; for now,
when fortune is tendered for my acceptance, I dare not put forth my hand to grasp it; fortune,
too, not only for me, but--. O God, it will kill us both, Martha as well as me, though I alone
am to blame for this infernal chance!"

This outburst appeared to relieve him, and he sank back into his chair somewhat calmer. I could
understand nothing of all that rhapsody, knowing, as I did, that his son Archibald had died
from natural causes. "It is a severe blow," I said, in as soothing a tone as I could assume--"a
very great disappointment; still, you are secured from extreme poverty--from anything like
absolute want"--

"It is not that--it is not that!" he broke in, though not quite so wildly as before. "Look
you, Mr. Sharp, I will tell you all! There may be some mode of extrication from this terrible
predicament, and I must have your advice professionally upon it."

"Go on; I will advise you to the best of my ability."

"Here it is, then: Archy, my son Archy, is alive!--alive! and well in health as either you or I!"

I was thunderstruck. Here was indeed a revelation.

