He played to me for half an hour. I do not know much about music; but I know he played well
and that he played good things. Also that, for the first time, he came out of himself, abandoned
himself to feeling. His close-cropped head swayed from side to side; his staring, wildcat eyes
half closed----

He slammed shut the piano and arose, more drily precise than ever.

"I imagine all that is rather beyond your apperceptions," he remarked, "and that you are ready
for your bed. Here is a short document I would have you take to your room for perusal. Good-night."

He tendered me a small, folded paper which I thrust into the breast pocket of my shirt along
with the note handed me earlier in the evening by the girl. Thus dismissed I was only too delighted
to repair to my bedroom.

There I first carefully drew together the curtains; then examined the first of the papers I
drew from my pocket. It proved to be the one from the girl, and read as follows:

     I am here against my will. I am not this man's daughter. For God's
     sake if you can help me, do so. But be careful for he is a
     dangerous man. My room is the last one on the left wing of the
     court. I am constantly guarded. I do not know what you can do. The
     case is hopeless. I cannot write more. I am watched.

I unfolded the paper Hooper himself had given me. It was similar in appearance to the other,
and read:

     I am held a prisoner. This man Hooper is not my father but he is
     vindictive and cruel and dangerous. Beware for yourself. I live in
     the last room in the left wing. I am watched, so cannot write more.

The handwriting of the two documents was the same. I stared at one paper and then at the other,
and for a half hour I thought all the thoughts appropriate to the occasion. They led me nowhere,
and would not interest you.

CHAPTER IV

After a time I went to bed, but not to sleep. I placed my gun under my pillow, locked and bolted
the door, and arranged a string cunningly across the open window so that an intruder--unless
he had extraordinary luck--could not have failed to kick up a devil of a clatter. I was young,
bold, without nerves; so that I think I can truthfully say I was not in the least frightened.
But I cannot deny I was nervous--or rather the whole situation was on my nerves. I lay on my
back staring straight at the ceiling. I caught myself gripping the sheets and listening. Only
there was nothing to listen to. The night was absolutely still. There were no frogs, no owls,
no crickets even. The firm old adobe walls gave off no creak nor snap of timbers. The world
was muffled--I almost said smothered. The psychological effect was that of blank darkness,
the black darkness of far underground, although the moon was sailing the heavens.

How long that lasted I could not tell you. But at last the silence was broken by the cheerful
chirp of a frog. Never was sound more grateful to the ear! I lay drinking it in as thirstily
as water after a day on the desert. It seemed that the world breathed again, was coming alive
after syncope. And then beneath that loud and cheerful singing I became aware of duller half-heard
movements; and a moment or so later yellow lights began to flicker through the transom high
at the blank wall of the room, and to reflect in wavering patches on the ceiling. Evidently
somebody was afoot outside with a lantern.

I crept from the bed, moved the table beneath the transom, and climbed atop. The opening was
still a foot or so above my head. Being young, strong, and active, I drew myself up by the
strength of my arms so I could look--until my muscles gave out!

I saw four men with lanterns moving here and there among some willows that bordered what seemed
to be an irrigating ditch with water. They were armed with long clubs. Old Man Hooper, in an
overcoat, stood in a commanding position. They seemed to be searching. Suddenly from a clump
of bushes one of the men uttered an exclamation of triumph. I saw his long club rise and fall.
At that instant my tired fingers slipped from the ledge and I had to let myself drop to the
table. When a moment later I regained my vantage point, I found that the whole crew had disappeared.

Nothing more happened that night. At times I dozed in a broken sort of fashion, but never actually
fell into sound sleep. The nearest I came to slumber was just at dawn. I really lost all consciousness
of my surroundings and circumstances, and was only slowly brought to myself by the sweet singing
of innumerable birds in the willows outside the blank wall. I lay in a half stupor enjoying
them. Abruptly their music ceased. I heard the soft, flat spat of a miniature rifle. The sound
was repeated. I climbed back on my table and drew myself again to a position of observation.

Old Man Hooper, armed with a .22 calibre rifle, was prowling along the willows in which fluttered
a small band of migratory birds. He was just drawing bead on a robin. At the report the bird
fell. The old man darted forward with the impetuosity of a boy, although the bird was dead.
An impulse of contempt curled my lips. The old man was childish! Why should he find pleasure
in hunting such harmless creatures? and why should he take on triumph over retrieving such
petty game? But when he reached the fallen bird he did not pick it up for a possible pot-pie
as I thought he would do. He ground it into the soft earth with the heel of his boot, stamping
on the poor thing again and again. And never have I seen on human countenance such an expression
of satisfied malignity!

I went to my door and looked out. You may be sure that the message I had received from the
unfortunate young lady had not been forgotten; but Old Man Hooper's cynical delivery of the
second paper had rendered me too cautious to undertake anything without proper reconnaissance.
The left wing about the courtyard seemed to contain two apartments--at least there were two
doors, each with its accompanying window. The window farthest out was heavily barred. My thrill
at this discovery was, however, slightly dashed by the further observation that also all the
other windows into the courtyard were barred. Still, that was peculiar in itself, and not attributable--as
were the walls and remarkable transoms--to former necessities of defence. My first thought
was to stroll idly around the courtyard, thus obtaining a closer inspection. But the moment
I stepped into the open a Mexican sauntered into view and began to water the flowers. I can
say no more than that in his hands that watering pot looked fairly silly. So I turned to the
right and passed through the wicket gate and into the stable yard. It was natural enough that
I should go to look after my own horse.

The stable yard was for the moment empty; but as I walked across it one of its doors opened
and a very little, wizened old man emerged leading a horse. He tied the animal to a ring in
the wall and proceeded at once to currying.

I had been in Arizona for ten years. During that time I had seen a great many very fine native
horses, for the stock of that country is directly descended from the barbs of the conquistadores.
But, though often well formed and as tough and useful as horseflesh is made, they were small.
And no man thought of refinements in caring for any one of his numerous mounts. They went shaggy
or smooth according to the season; and not one of them could have called a curry comb or brush
out of its name.

The beast from which the wizened old man stripped a bona fide horse blanket was none of these.
He stood a good sixteen hands; his head was small and clean cut with large, intelligent eyes
and little, well-set ears; his long, muscular shoulders sloped forward as shoulders should;
his barrel was long and deep and well ribbed up; his back was flat and straight; his legs were
clean and--what was rarely seen in the cow country--well proportioned--the cannon bone shorter
than the leg bone, the ankle sloping and long and elastic--in short, a magnificent creature
whose points of excellence appeared one by one under close scrutiny. And the high lights of
his glossy coat flashed in the sun like water.

I walked from one side to the other of him marvelling. Not a defect, not even a blemish could
I discover. The animal was fairly a perfect specimen of horseflesh. And I could not help speculating
as to its use. Old Man Hooper had certainly never appeared with it in public; the fame of such
a beast would have spread the breadth of the country.

During my inspection the wizened little man continued his work without even a glance in my
direction. He had on riding breeches and leather gaiters, a plaid waistcoat and a peaked cap;
which, when you think of it, was to Arizona about as incongruous as the horse. I made several
conventional remarks of admiration, to which he paid not the slightest attention. But I know
a bait.

"I suppose you claim him as a Morgan," said I.

"Claim, is it!" grunted the little man, contemptuously.

"Well, the Morgan is not a real breed, anyway," I persisted. "A sixty-fourth blood will get
one registered. What does that amount to?"

The little man grunted again.

"Besides, though your animal is a good one, he is too short and straight in the pasterns,"
said I, uttering sheer, rank, wild heresy.

After that we talked; at first heatedly, then argumentatively, then with entire, enthusiastic
agreement. I saw to that. Allowing yourself to be converted from an absurd opinion is always
a sure way to favour. We ended with antiphonies of praise for this descendant of Justin Morgan.

"You're the only man in all this God-forsaken country that has the sense of a Shanghai rooster!"
cried the little man in a glow. "They ride horses and they know naught of them; and they laugh
at a horseman! Your hand, sir!" He shook it. "And is that your horse in number four? I wondered!
He's the first animal I've seen here properly shod. They use the rasp, sir, on the outside
the hoof, and on the clinches, sir; and they burn a seat for the shoe; and they pare out the
sole and trim the frog--bah! You shoe your own horse, I take it. That's right and proper! Your
hand again, sir. Your horse has been fed this hour agone."

"I'll water him, then," said I.

But when I led him forth I could find no trough or other facilities until the little man led
me to a corner of the corral and showed me a contraption with a close-fitting lid to be lifted.

"It's along of the flies," he explained to me. "They must drink, and we starve them for water
here, and they go greedy for their poison yonder." He indicated flat dishes full of liquid
set on shelves here and about. "We keep them pretty clear."

I walked over, curiously, to examine. About and in the dishes were literally quarts of dead
insects, not only flies, but bees, hornets, and other sorts as well. I now understood the deadly
silence that had so impressed me the evening before. This was certainly most ingenious; and
I said so.

But at my first remark the old man became obstinately silent, and fell again to grooming the
Morgan horse. Then I became aware that he was addressing me in low tones out of the corner
of his mouth.

"Go on; look at the horse; say something," he muttered, busily polishing down the animal's
hind legs. "You're a man who saveys a horse--the only man I've seen here who does. Get out!
Don't ask why. You're safe now. You're not safe here another day. Water your horse; eat your
breakfast; then get out!"

And not another word did I extract. I watered my horse at the covered trough, and rather thoughtfully
returned to the courtyard.

I found there Old Man Hooper waiting. He looked as bland and innocent and harmless as the sunlight
on his own flagstones--until he gazed up at me, and then I was as usual disconcerted by the
blank, veiled, unwinking stare of his eyes.

"Remarkably fine Morgan stallion you have, sir," I greeted him. "I didn't know such a creature
existed in this part of the world."

But the little man displayed no gratification.

"He's well enough. I have him more to keep Tim happy than anything else. We'll go in to breakfast."

I cast a cautious eye at the barred window in the left wing. The curtains were still down.
At the table I ventured to ask after Miss Hooper. The old man stared at me up to the point
of embarrassment, then replied drily that she always breakfasted in her room. The rest of our
conversation was on general topics. I am bound to say it was unexpectedly easy. The old man
was a good talker, and possessed social ease and a certain charm, which he seemed to be trying
to exert. Among other things, I remember, he told me of the Indian councils he used to hold
in the old days.

"They were held on the willow flat, outside the east wall," he said. "I never allowed any of
them inside the walls." The suavity of his manner broke fiercely and suddenly. "Everything
inside the walls is mine!" he declared with heat. "Mine! mine! mine! Understand? I will not
tolerate in here anything that is not mine; that does not obey my will; that does not come
when I say come; go when I say go; and fall silent when I say be still!"

A wild and fantastic idea suddenly illuminated my understanding.

"Even the crickets, the flies, the frogs, the birds," I said, audaciously.

He fixed his wildcat eyes upon me without answering.

"And," I went on, deliberately, "who could deny your perfect right to do what you will with
your own? And if they did deny that right what more natural than that they should be made to
perish--or take their breakfasts in their rooms?"

I was never more aware of the absolute stillness of the house than when I uttered these foolish
words. My hand was on the gun in my trouser-band; but even as I spoke a sickening realization
came over me that if the old man opposite so willed, I would have no slightest chance to use
it. The air behind me seemed full of menace, and the hair crawled on the back of my neck. Hooper
stared at me without sign for ten seconds; his right hand hovered above the polished table.
Then he let it fall without giving what I am convinced would have been a signal.

"Will you have more coffee--my guest?" he inquired. And he stressed subtly the last word in
a manner that somehow made me just a trifle ashamed.

At the close of the meal the Mexican familiar glided into the room. Hooper seemed to understand
the man's presence, for he arose at once.

"Your horse is saddled and ready," he told me, briskly. "You will be wishing to start before
the heat of the day. Your cantinas are ready on the saddle."

He clapped on his hat and we walked together to the corral. There awaited us not only my own
horse, but another. The equipment of the latter was magnificently reminiscent of the old California
days--gaily-coloured braided hair bridle and reins; silver conchas; stock saddle of carved
leather with silver horn and cantle; silvered bit bars; gay Navajo blanket as corona; silver
corners to skirts, silver conchas on the long tapaderos. Old Man Hooper, strangely incongruous
in his wrinkled "store clothes," swung aboard.

"I will ride with you for a distance," he said.

We jogged forth side by side at the slow Spanish trot. Hooper called my attention to the buildings
of Fort Shafter glimmering part way up the slopes of the distant mountains, and talked entertainingly
of the Indian days, and how the young officers used to ride down to his ranch for music.

After a half hour thus we came to the long string of wire and the huge, awkward gate that marked
the limit of Hooper's "pasture." Of course the open range was his real pasture; but every ranch
enclosed a thousand acres or so somewhere near the home station to be used for horses in active
service. Before I could anticipate him, he had sidled his horse skillfully alongside the gate
and was holding it open for me to pass. I rode through the opening murmuring thanks and an
apology. The old man followed me through, and halted me by placing his horse square across
the path of mine.

"You are now, sir, outside my land and therefore no longer my guest," he said, and the snap
in his voice was like the crackling of electricity. "Don't let me ever see you here again.
You are keen and intelligent. You spoke the truth a short time since. You were right. I tolerate
nothing in my place that is not my own--no man, no animal, no bird, no insect nor reptile even--that
will not obey my lightest order. And these creatures, great or small, who will not--or even
cannot--obey my orders must go--or die. Understand me clearly?

"You have come here, actuated, I believe, by idle curiosity, but without knowledge. You made
yourself--ignorantly--my guest; and a guest is sacred. But now you know my customs and ideas.
I am telling you. Never again can you come here in ignorance; therefore never again can you
come here as a guest; and never again will you pass freely."

He delivered this drily, precisely, with frost in his tones, staring balefully into my eyes.
So taken aback was I by this unleashed hostility that for a moment I had nothing to say.

"Now, if you please, I will take both notes from that poor idiot: the one I handed you and
the one she handed you."

I realized suddenly that the two lay together in the breast pocket of my shirt; that though
alike in tenor, they differed in phrasing; and that I had no means of telling one from the other.

"The paper you gave me I read and threw away," I stated, boldly. "It meant nothing to me. As
to any other, I do not know what you are talking about."

"You are lying," he said, calmly, as merely stating a fact. "It does not matter. It is my fancy
to collect them. I should have liked to add yours. Now get out of this, and don't let me see
your face again!"

"Mr. Hooper," said I, "I thank you for your hospitality, which has been complete and generous.
You have pointed out the fact that I am no longer your guest. I can, therefore, with propriety,
tell you that your ideas and prejudices are noted with interest; your wishes are placed on
file for future reference; I don't give a damn for your orders; and you can go to hell!"

"Fine flow of language. Educated cowpuncher," said the old man, drily. "You are warned. Keep
off. Don't meddle with what does not concern you. And if the rumour gets back to me that you've
been speculating or talking or criticizing----"

"Well?" I challenged.

"I'll have you killed," he said, simply; so simply that I knew he meant it.

"You are foolish to make threats," I rejoined. "Two can play at that game. You drive much alone."

"I do not work alone," he hinted, darkly. "The day my body is found dead of violence, that
day marks the doom of a long list of men whom I consider inimical to me--like, perhaps, yourself."
He stared me down with his unwinking gaze.

CHAPTER V

I returned to Box Springs at a slow jog trot, thinking things over. Old Man Hooper's warning
sobered, but did not act as a deterrent of my intention to continue with the adventure. But
how? I could hardly storm the fort single handed and carry off the damsel in distress. On the
evidence I possessed I could not even get together a storming party. The cowboy is chivalrous
enough, but human. He would not uprise spontaneously to the point of war on the mere statement
of incarcerated beauty--especially as ill-treatment was not apparent. I would hardly last long
enough to carry out the necessary proselyting campaign. It never occurred to me to doubt that
Hooper would fulfill his threat of having me killed, or his ability to do so.

So when the men drifted in two by two at dusk, I said nothing of my real adventures, and answered
their chaff in kind.

"He played the piano for me," I told them the literal truth, "and had me in to the parlour
and dining room. He gave me a room to myself with a bed and sheets; and he rode out to his
pasture gate with me to say good-bye," and thereby I was branded a delicious liar.

"They took me into the bunk house and fed me, all right," said Windy Bill, "and fed my horse.
And next morning that old Mexican Joe of his just nat'rally up and kicked me off the premises."

"Wonder you didn't shoot him," I exclaimed.

"Oh, he didn't use his foot. But he sort of let me know that the place was unhealthy to visit
more'n once. And somehow I seen he meant it; and I ain't never had no call to go back."

I mulled over the situation all day, and then could stand it no longer. On the dark of the
evening I rode to within a couple of miles of Hooper's ranch, tied my horse, and scouted carefully
forward afoot. For one thing I wanted to find out whether the system of high transoms extended
to all the rooms, including that in the left wing: for another I wanted to determine the "lay
of the land" on that blank side of the house. I found my surmise correct as to the transoms.
As to the blank side of the house, that looked down on a wide, green, moist patch and the irrigating
ditch with its stunted willows. Then painstakingly I went over every inch of the terrain about
the ranch; and might just as well have investigated the external economy of a mud turtle. Realizing
that nothing was to be gained in this manner, I withdrew to my strategic base where I rolled
down and slept until daylight. Then I saddled and returned toward the ranch.

I had not ridden two miles, however, before in the boulder-strewn wash of Arroyo Seco I met
Jim Starr, one of our men.

"Look here," he said to me. "Jed sent me up to look at the Elder Springs, but my hoss has done
cast a shoe. Cain't you ride up there?"

"I cannot," said I, promptly. "I've been out all night and had no breakfast. But you can have
my horse."

So we traded horses and separated, each our own way. They sent me out by Coyote Wells with
two other men, and we did not get back until the following evening.

The ranch was buzzing with excitement. Jim Starr had not returned, although the ride to Elder
Springs was only a two-hour affair. After a night had elapsed, and still he did not return,
two men had been sent. They found him half way to Elder Springs with a bullet hole in his back.
The bullet was that of a rifle. Being plainsmen they had done good detective work of its kind,
and had determined--by the direction of the bullet's flight as evidenced by the wound--that
it had been fired from a point above. The only point above was the low "rim" that ran for miles
down the Soda Springs Valley. It was of black lava and showed no tracks. The men, with a true
sense of values, had contented themselves with covering Jim Starr with a blanket, and then
had ridden the rim for some miles in both directions looking for a trail. None could be discovered.
By this they deduced that the murder was not the result of chance encounter, but had been so
carefully planned that no trace would be left of the murderer or murderers.

No theory could be imagined save the rather vague one of personal enmity. Jim Starr was comparatively
a newcomer with us. Nobody knew anything much about him or his relations. Nobody questioned
the only man who could have told anything; and that man did not volunteer to tell what he knew.

I refer to myself. The thing was sickeningly clear to me. Jim Starr had nothing to do with
it. I was the man for whom that bullet from the rim had been intended. I was the unthinking,
shortsighted fool who had done Jim Starr to his death. It had never occurred to me that my
midnight reconnoitring would leave tracks, that Old Man Hooper's suspicious vigilance would
even look for tracks. But given that vigilance, the rest followed plainly enough. A skillful
trailer would have found his way to where I had mounted; he would have followed my horse to
Arroyo Seco where I had met with Jim Starr. There he would have visualized a rider on a horse
without one shoe coming as far as the Arroyo, meeting me, and returning whence he had come;
and me at once turning off at right angles. His natural conclusion would be that a messenger
had brought me orders and had returned. The fact that we had shifted mounts he could not have
read, for the reason--as I only too distinctly remembered--that we had made the change in the
boulder and rock stream bed which would show no clear traces.

The thought that poor Jim Starr, whom I had well liked, had been sacrificed for me, rendered
my ride home with the convoy more deeply thoughtful than even the tragic circumstances warranted.
We laid his body in the small office, pending Buck Johnson's return from town, and ate our
belated meal in silence. Then we gathered around the corner fireplace in the bunk house, lit
our smokes, and talked it over. Jed Parker joined us. Usually he sat with our owner in the office.

Hardly had we settled ourselves to discussion when the door opened and Buck Johnson came in.
We had been so absorbed that no one had heard him ride up. He leaned his forearm against the
doorway at the height of his head and surveyed the silenced group rather ironically.

"Lucky I'm not nervous and jumpy by nature," he observed. "I've seen dead men before. Still,
next time you want to leave one in my office after dark, I wish you'd put a light with him,
or tack up a sign, or even leave somebody to tell me about it. I'm sorry it's Starr and not
that thoughtful old horned toad in the corner."

Jed looked foolish, but said nothing. Buck came in, closed the door, and took a chair square
in front of the fireplace. The glow of the leaping flames was full upon him. His strong face
and bulky figure were revealed, while the other men sat in half shadow. He at once took charge
of the discussion.

"How was he killed?" he inquired, "bucked off?"

"Shot," replied Jed Parker.

Buck's eyebrows came together.

"Who?" he asked.

He was told the circumstances as far as they were known, but declined to listen to any of the
various deductions and surmises.

"Deliberate murder and not a chance quarrel," he concluded. "He wasn't even within hollering
distance of that rim-rock. Anybody know anything about Starr?"

"He's been with us about five weeks," proffered Jed, as foreman. "Said he came from Texas."

"He was a Texican," corroborated one of the other men. "I rode with him considerable."

"What enemies did he have?" asked Buck.

But it developed that, as far as these men knew, Jim Starr had had no enemies. He was a quiet
sort of a fellow. He had been to town once or twice. Of course he might have made an enemy,
but it was not likely; he had always behaved himself. Somebody would have known of any trouble----

"Maybe somebody followed him from Texas."

"More likely the usual local work," Buck interrupted. "This man Starr ever met up with Old
Man Hooper or Hooper's men?"

But here was another impasse. Starr had been over on the Slick Rock ever since his arrival.
I could have thrown some light on the matter, perhaps, but new thoughts were coming to me and
I kept silence.

Shortly Buck Johnson went out. His departure loosened tongues, among them mine.

"I don't see why you stand for this old hombre if he's as bad as you say," I broke in. "Why
don't some of you brave young warriors just naturally pot him?"

