"Ah, why not, indeed?  What can be more musical in sound than Yatala, Aldinga, Kooringa, Onkaparinga.
But then, we could not always find native names enough; and, besides this, the Englishman likes
to keep the old country before him, by giving his place some dear familiar name that sounds
like home."

In about another half hour they reached their destination among the hills.

"The Rocks," as Mr Abraham Oliphant's place was called, was situated on a hill-side, high above
the valley, but on a moderate slope.  A stout post-and-rail fence surrounded the estate, and
one of a more compact nature enclosed the more private grounds.  The house was large, and covered
a considerable surface, as there were no rooms above the basement floor.  The front windows
commanded a magnificent view of the city of Adelaide, with its surrounding lands, suburbs,
and neighbouring villages, and of the sea in the extreme distance.  At the back was a remarkable
group of rocks, from which the estate took its name; these leaned on the hill-side, and were
encased in a setting of wild shrubs and creeping plants of extraordinary beauty.  A stream
of purest spring water perpetually flowed through a wide cleft in these rocks, and afforded
a deliciously cool supply, which never failed in the hottest summer.  The house was surrounded
by a wide verandah, which, like the building itself, was roofed with shingles, and up the posts
and along the edge of which there climbed a profusion of the multiflora rose.  The garden sloped
away from the house, and contained an abundance of both flowers and fruits.  There was the
aloe, and more than one kind of cactus, growing freely in the open air, with many other plants
which would need the hothouse or greenhouse in a colder climate.  Fig-trees, vines, standard
peach, and nectarine trees were in great abundance, while a fence of the sharp Kangaroo Island
acacia effectually kept all inquisitive cattle at a respectful distance.  The inside of the
house was tastefully but not unduly furnished, ancient and modern articles being ranged side
by side in happy fraternity; for a thorough colonist suits his own taste, and is tolerably
independent of fashion.

"Welcome once more to Australia!" exclaimed Mr Oliphant to his young companions; "and more
especially welcome to `the Rocks.'  Come in: here, let me introduce you to my eldest daughter
and youngest son--Jane and Thomas, here's your cousin Hubert; and here's his friend, Mr Frank
Oldfield; you must give them a hearty welcome."

All parties were soon at their ease together.  A sumptuous dinner-tea was soon spread on the
table of the dining-room--the windows of which apartment commanded a view, across the valley,
of the city and distant sea.

Mr Oliphant was a widower, with two daughters and four sons.  Jane had taken her mother's place;
the two eldest sons were married, and settled in other parts of the colony; the third son lived
with his younger sister at a sheep-station about twenty-five miles up the country; the youngest
son, Thomas, a boy about fifteen years old, was still at home, and rode in daily to the collegiate
school, returning in the evening.

"You'll meet your other cousins before long, I hope," said his uncle to Hubert.  "They know,
of course, that you are coming; and when I send them word that you are actually come, we shall
have them riding in at an early day.  I suppose you're used to riding yourself?  Ah, that's
right; then you're pretty independent.  Horseflesh is cheap enough here, but it isn't always
of the choicest quality; however, I can furnish you with what you'll want in that way.  All
your cousins ride, of course, by a sort of colonial instinct.  An Australian and his horse
almost grow together like a centaur."

"And do you ride much, Cousin Jane?" asked Hubert.

"Oh, never mind the `cousin;' you must drop it at once," said Mr Oliphant.  "It's Jane, and
you're Hubert.  But I beg Jane's pardon for smothering her answer."

"Oh yes, Hubert," replied his cousin; "I ride, as a matter of course; we should never get over
much ground, especially in the hot weather, if we walked as much as people seem to do in England.
But I have not yet heard how you left my dear aunt and uncle.  Seeing you seems half like seeing
them; I've heard so much of them."

"I suppose you hardly venture out kangaroo-hunting, Miss Oliphant?" asked Frank.

"I have done so once or twice in the north," she replied; "but the kangaroo is not fond of
so many white faces near his haunts, so he has retired from these parts altogether."

"And you find you can all stand total abstinence here?" asked Hubert of his uncle.

"Stand it!" exclaimed Mr Oliphant; "I should think so.  Why, my dear nephew, it don't need
standing; it's the drink I couldn't stand.  You should see the whole lot of us when we meet
at one of our great family gatherings.  Well, it's not quite the thing perhaps for a father
to say--and yet I fancy it's not very far from the truth--that you'll not see a stouter, a
better grown--Jane, shall I say handsomer?--I certainly may say a healthier, family anywhere;
and not one of us is indebted to any alcoholic stimulant for our good looks."

"You have always, then, been an abstainer since you came to the colony?" asked Frank.

"No, I have not; more's the pity," was the reply; "but only one or two of my children remember
the day when I first became an abstainer.  From the oldest to the youngest they have been brought
up without fermented stimulants, and abhor the very sight of them."

"And might I ask," inquired Frank, "what led to the change in your case, if the question is
not an intrusive one?"

"Oh, by all means; I've nothing to conceal in the matter," said Mr Oliphant; "the story is
a very simple one.  But come, you must make a good tea; listening is often as hungry work as
talking.  Well, the circumstances were just these: when I was left a widower, more than fourteen
years ago, Jane was about twelve years old and Thomas only six months; I was then a moderate
drinker, as it is called--that is to say, I never got drunk; but I'm sure if any one had asked
me to define `moderation,' I should have been sorely puzzled to do so; and I am quite certain
that I often exceeded the bounds of moderation, not in the eyes of my fellow-creatures, but
in the eyes of my Creator--ay, and in my own eyes too, for I often felt heated and excited
by what I drank, so as to wish that I had taken a glass or two less,--yet all this time I never
overstepped the bounds, so as to lose my self-control.  At this time I kept a capital cellar--I
mean a cellar largely stocked with choice wines and spirits.  I did not live then at `the Rocks,'
but in a house on the skirts of the city.  You may be sure that I needed a good nurse to look
after so many growing children who had just lost their dear mother, and I was happy enough
to light upon a treasure of a woman--she was clean, civil, active, faithful, honest, forbearing,
and full of love to the children; in a word, all that I could desire her to be.  She took an
immense deal of care off my hands, and I could have trusted her with everything I had.  Months
passed by, and I began to give large dinner- parties--for I was rather famous for my wines.
Besides this, I was always having friends dropping in, happy to take a glass.  All went on
well--so it seemed--till one afternoon a maid came running into my sitting-room and cried out,
`Oh, sir, nurse is so very ill; what must we do?'  I hurried up-stairs.  There was the poor
woman, sure enough, in a very miserable state.  I couldn't make it out at all.

"`Send for a doctor at once!'  I cried.  In a little while the doctor came.  I waited most
anxiously for his report.  At last he came down, and the door was closed on us.

"`Well, doctor,' I cried, in great anxiety; `nothing very serious, I hope?  I can ill afford
to lose such a faithful creature.'

"I saw a curious smile on his face, which rather nettled me, as I thought it very ill-timed.
At last he fairly burst out into a laugh, and exclaimed, `There's nothing the matter with the
woman, only she's drunk.'

"`Drunk!'  I exclaimed with horror; `impossible!'

"`Ay, but it's both possible and true too,' said the doctor; `she'll be all right, you'll see,
in a few hours.'

"And so she was.  I then spoke out plainly and kindly to her.  Oh, I shall never forget her
misery and shame.  She made no attempt to deny her fault, or even excuse it; she was heart-broken;
she said she must go at once.  I urged her to stay, and to turn over a new leaf.  I promised
to overlook what had passed, and told her that she might soon regain her former place in my
esteem and confidence.  But I could not keep her; she could not bear to remain, much as she
loved the children; she must go elsewhere and hide her disgrace.

"`But how came you to contract such a habit?' said I.  And then she told me that she began
by finishing what was left in the glasses of my friends and myself after dinner; then, as I
never locked up the cellaret--the thirst becoming stronger and stronger--she helped herself
from the bottles, till at last she had become a confirmed drunkard.  I pitied her deeply, as
you may well understand; and would have kept her on, but nothing would induce her to stay.
However, I had learned a lesson, and had made up my mind: I was determined that thenceforward
no one should ever sow the first seeds of drunkenness in my house, or have any countenance
in drinking from my example.  The very morning the unhappy woman left, I made a vigorous onslaught
on the drink.

"`Fetch up the cellar!'  I cried; and the cellar was forthwith fetched up.  Beer barrels, wine
bottles and spirit-bottles, dozens of pale ale and bitter beer, were soon dragged into light.

"`Now, fetch me the kitchen-poker!'  I shouted; it was brought me, and I commenced such a smashing
as I should think has never been witnessed before, nor is likely to be witnessed again.  Right
and left, and all round me, the yard was flooded with malt liquors, spirits and wines. Then
I knocked out the bungs of the casks, and joined their contents to the flood.  You may suppose
there was some little staring at all this, but it mattered nothing to me.  I was resolved that
what had ruined my poor nurse should never ruin any one else at my cost, or in my house; so
from that day to this no alcoholic stimulant has passed my lips; nor been given by me to man,
woman, or child; nor, please God, ever shall be.--Now, my dear young friends, you have had
the history of what first led me to become a total abstainer."

There was a silence for several minutes, which was at last broken by Hubert's asking,--

"And what became of the unhappy woman, dear uncle?"

"Ah! don't ask me.  She went from bad to worse while she remained in the colony.  For so it
commonly is with drunkards, but most of all with female drunkards.  I've known--and I thank
God for it--many a reformed male drunkard; but when women take decidedly to drinking, it is
very rare indeed to see them cured--at least, that has been my experience. I got poor nurse
away with a friend of mine who was going in a temperance ship to England, hoping that the habit
might be broken off during the voyage.  But, alas! she broke out again soon after reaching
home, and died at last a miserable death in a workhouse.  But I see you look rather fagged,
Mr Oldfield.  Shall we take a turn in the garden before it gets dark, and then perhaps you'll
like a little music?"

And now we must leave Abraham Oliphant and Australia for a while, and return to Langhurst,
and some of the earlier characters of our story.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

AN EXPLOSION IN THE PIT.

"No letter yet from our Sammul," cried Betty, wearily and sadly, as she came from the mill
on a dreary night in the November after her brother's sudden departure.  "I thought as how
he'd have been sure to write to me. Well, I suppose we must make ourselves content till he's
got over the sea.  But oh, it'll be weary work till we've heard summat from him."

"Hush, hush, there's a good bairn," said her mother, though the tears were all the while running
down her own cheeks as she spoke; "don't take on so; you'll drive your fayther clean crazy.
He's down in the mouth enough already.  Come, don't fret in that fashion, Thomas; Sammul'll
come back afore long: you've been crouching down by the hearth-stone long enough.  If you'll
be guided by me, you'll just take a drop of good ale, it'll liven you up a bit; you want summat
of the sort, or you'll shrivel up till you've nothing but skin on your bones."

"Ale!" cried Thomas, indignantly; "ale'll not make me better--ale won't make me forget--ale
won't bring back our Sammul, it's driven him far enough away."

"Well," said his wife, soothingly, "you must go your own way; only, if you keep a-fretting
of that fashion, you'll not be able to do your work gradely, and then we shall all have to
starve, and that'll be worse for you still."

"Better starve," replied her husband moodily, "nor ruin body and soul with the drink; I'll
have no more of it."

"Well, you can please yourself;" replied Alice, "so long as you don't take me with you.  But
I must have my drop of beer and my pipe, I can't live without 'em; and so you may rest content
with that; it's the truth, it is for sure."

"Mother," said Betty, mournfully, "can you really talk in that fashion to fayther, when you
know how the drink's been the cause of all the misery in our house, till it's driven our poor
Sammul away to crouch him down on other folk's hearth-stones in foreign parts?  I should have
thought we might all have learnt a lesson by this time."

"It's no use talking, child," replied her mother; "you go your way, and take your fayther with
you if he's a mind, but don't think to come over me with your talk; I'm not a babe, I can take
care of myself.  The drink's good enough in moderation, and I'm going to be moderate.  But
lads and wenches is so proud now-a-days that mothers has to hearken and childer does the teaching."

Poor Betty! she sighed, and said no more.  Johnson also saw that it was no use reasoning with
his wife.  Her appetite for the drink was unquenchable.  It was clear that she loved it better
than husband, children, home, conscience, soul.  Alas! poor Thomas's was a heavy burden indeed.
Could he only have been sure that his son was alive and well, he could have borne his troubles
better; but now he seemed crushed to the very earth.  And yet, strange as it might seem, he
did not feel tempted to fly to the drink again for consolation; he rather shrank from the very
sight and thought of it.  Ah, there were many prayers being offered up for him; unseen hands
were guiding him, and in his home was the daily presence of one who was indeed a help and comfort
to him.  He clung to Betty now, and she to him, with a peculiar tenderness.  Her heart was
full of the warm glow of unselfish love, and his was learning to expand and unfold under the
influence of her bright example.  Theirs was a common sorrow and a common hope, as far as Samuel
was concerned. Why had he not written to them from Liverpool, or from whatever port he had
sailed from?  That he had gone beyond the sea, they were both firmly convinced.  Betty, of
course, had her own special sorrow.  She could not forget that terrible night--she could not
forget the knife and the blood--though she was still fully persuaded that her brother had not
laid violent hands on himself.  But oh, if he would only write, what a load of misery would
be taken off both their hearts; yet no letter came. November wore away, December came and went,
the new year began, still there was no news of Samuel.  Ned Brierley did all he could to console
the unhappy father and daughter, and with some success.  He was very urgent with Thomas to
sign the pledge, and thus openly join himself to the little band of total abstainers, and Thomas
had pretty nearly made up his mind to do so.  He had hesitated, not so much because he dreaded
the sneers and jeers of his companions--he had become callous to those-- but he shrank from
encountering the daily, wearing, gnawing trial of his wife's taunts and reproaches; for the
restless uneasiness of a conscience not yet quite seared into utter insensibility made the
unhappy woman doubly bitter in her attacks upon abstinence and abstainers.  And thus matters
were when February opened.

It was on a clear frosty evening in the beginning of that month that Betty was returning from
the mill.  They were running short time that week, and she was coming home about an hour earlier
than usual.  The ground was hard and crisp, and the setting sun sank a misty red, while a greyish-yellow
tint overspread the whole horizon.  Betty toiled slowly and listlessly up the hill, the old
weight still on her heart.  She had nearly reached her home, when a sound fearfully loud and
awful, like the discharge of the cannon of two conflicting armies underground in one vast but
muffled roar, made her heart almost stand still with terror. The next instant a huge body of
sulphurous smoke leaped high into the air from one of the pit-mouths.  In a moment the dreadful
cry arose, "The pit's fired!"

The next minute men, women, and children poured out from houses and cottages, horror and dismay
on every face.  Near two hundred men and boys were down that pit; scarce a house but had one
or more below.  Oh, who could adequately describe the dreadful scene of misery, wailing; and
confusion which followed!

Betty knew that her father was down, and she felt that in him all she had to cling to on earth
was now, perhaps, torn from her for ever.  Men and women rushed past her towards the pit's mouth.

"Lord help us," groaned one poor mother; "our Thomas and Matthew's down."

"Fayther's there too," wailed Betty.  "Oh, the Lord keep him, and bring him up safe."

"Where's our Bill?--oh, have you seen anything of our Bill?" shrieked another poor distracted
mother.

Then came crowds of men, with overlookers and policemen.  Then a hasty consultation was held
as to what must be done.

"Who'll volunteer to go down with me and send the poor fellows up?" cries the overlooker. 
Three men come forward, and step with him into the tub; not a word do they say, but they look
quite calm and self- possessed--they have a work to do, and they will do it.  And now the women
are clustered round on the pit-bank in haggard expectation, the very picture of woe, some wild
in their cries, others rocking themselves to and fro to still, if it may be, their misery;
and others bowed down to the earth, the very image of mute despair.  And now the wheels rapidly
revolve, the rope runs swiftly, at last it slackens speed.  The tub reaches the top--two ghastly
forms are lifted from it--the women, with straining eyes, pressing forward to look.  Oh, what
a sight! the fiery stream has scorched the faces and limbs of the poor men almost out of knowledge.
Again the tub descends, again other sufferers are raised, and still the same sad work continues
hour after hour, far into the night.  Some of those brought up are quite dead, poor blackened
corpses; others still live, and are borne home, moaning piteously.  From the limbs of many
the skin peels with a touch.  Some, less terribly injured, run and leap like madmen when they
reach the open fresh air; some come up utterly blinded.  And oh, what a vale of tears is that
village of Langhurst the livelong night!  Some call in vain for fathers, husbands, brothers;
they have not yet been found.  Some wring their hands over bodies which can never live again
till the resurrection morning; some lovingly tend those who lie racked with agony on their
beds, every limb writhing with fiery anguish; while some poor victims are so scorched and blackened
that none can be found to claim them--one can only be known by his watch-chain, so completely
is he burnt out of all remembrance.  And what of poor Johnson?  Hour after hour Betty and her
mother watched near the pit's mouth, sick with sorrow and suspense, pressing forward as each
fresh tub-load landed its miserable burden, still to be disappointed; while the wailings, the
cries, the tears of those who claimed the dead, the dying, the scorched, on every fresh arrival,
only added fuel to their burning grief.  At last, about midnight, three men were brought up
and laid on the bank, all apparently lifeless.

"Oh, there's fayther!"

"Oh, there's Thomas!" burst from the lips of Betty and her mother.

"Oh, take him home, take him home, live or dead," entreated Betty.

He was placed accordingly on a shutter, and carried by four men to his home.  There they laid
the body down on the couch, and left it alone with the mother and daughter.  Alice wrung her
hands in the bitterest distress.

"Oh, he's dead, he's dead; he'll never speak to us any more."

"Mother, hush!" said Betty, softly; "he's not dead, I can see his lips move and his breast
heave.  Maybe the Lord'll be merciful to us, and spare him.  O Father in heaven," she cried,
throwing herself on her knees, "do hear us, and spare poor fayther, for Jesus' sake."

The sufferer uttered a deep groan.

"Ay, ay, Betty," cried her mother, "the Lord be praised, there's life in him yet.  Run to old
Jenny's, and ask her to come and help us.  Her master's all right; she'll be glad to give a
helping hand to a neighbour in trouble."

But there was no need to send for assistance, for in a minute after, the cottage was filled
with women, eager to use both hands and tongues in the sufferer's service.  They carried him
to his bed, and gently removed his clothes from him, though not without great difficulty, for
he was fearfully burnt; and the act of taking off his clothing caused him great agony, as the
skin came away with some of his inner garments.  At last he was made as comfortable as was
possible under the circumstances, till the doctor should come and dress his burns.  Betty sat
watching him, while her mother and the other women gathered round the fire below, with their
pipes and their drink, trying to drown sorrow.  She, poor girl, knew where to seek a better
consolation; she sought, and found it.  At last her mother's step was again on the stairs;
she came up unsteadily, and with flushed face approached the bed where her husband lay.  She
had a mug of spirits in her hand.

"I'll give him a drop of this," she said thickly; "it'll put life into him in no time."

"Oh, mother," cried Betty, "you mustn't do it; it's wrong, you'll be the death of him."

But Alice would not heed her.  She put some of the spirits in a spoon to the poor sufferer's
lips.  She was astonished to find him perfectly conscious, for he closed his mouth tightly,
and shook his scarred face from side to side.

"He won't have it, mother," said Betty, earnestly.

"Give me a drink of cold water," said the poor man in a low voice. Betty fetched it him.  "Ay,
that's it; I want nothing stronger."

Alice slipped down again to her companions below, but her daughter remained in the chamber.

It was a desolate room, as desolate as poverty and drink could make it; and now it looked doubly
desolate, as the scorched figure of the old collier lay motionless on the low, comfortless,
curtainless bed.  A dip in an old wine bottle standing on a box threw a gloomy light on the
disfigured features, which looked almost unearthly in the clear moonlight which struggled with
the miserable twinkling of the feeble candle, and fell just across the bed.  Betty sat gazing
at her father, full of anxious and sorrowful thoughts.  How solemn the contrast between the
stillness of that sick-chamber and the Babel of eager tongues in the house below!  She felt
unspeakably wretched, and yet there was a sense of rebuke in her conscience, for she knew how
great a mercy it was that her father's life was spared.  She sighed deeply, and then, suddenly
rising quietly, she lifted the lid of the box, and brought out a well- worn Bible.  She was
not much of a scholar, but she could make out a verse or a passage in the Holy Book with a
little pains.  She had put her mark against favourite passages, and now she turned to some
of these.

"`Come, unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.'"

She paused on each word, uttering it half aloud, as she travelled carefully from one line to
another.

"Ah, that's what I want," she said to herself, but in an audible whisper.  "It means, Come
to Jesus, I know."

She stopped, and put the book aside, resting her head on her hands.  She was startled by hearing
her father say,--

"It's very good.  Read on, Betty, my lass."

"Oh, fayther, I didn't think you could hear me!  What shall I read?"

"Read about some poor sinner like me, that got his sins pardoned by Jesus Christ."

"I can't justly say where it is, fayther; but I know there's one place where it tells of a
sinful man as had his sins pardoned by Jesus Christ, even when he hung upon the cross.  I know
well it was when the Lord were a-dying.

"Do you think, Betty," asked Johnson very earnestly, "I should go to be with Jesus, if I were
to die now?  Oh, if this pain's so bad, what must hell-fire be?"

"Fayther," replied his daughter quietly, "the Lord's spared you for summat.  I prayed him to
spare you, and he'll not cast you off now as he's heard my prayer.  If you take him at his
word, he'll not tell you as you're mistaken--he'll not say he hasn't pardon in his heart for you."

"I believe it, I will believe it," said the poor man, the tears running down his cheeks.  "O
God, be merciful to me a sinner, for Jesus Christ's sake,"--there was a pause; then, after
a while, he added, "I think as he'll hear me, Betty."

"I am sure he will," she answered; "but you must lie still, fayther, or maybe you'll do yourself
harm.  The doctor'll be here just now."

It was a night of darkness and terror, yet even on that sad night there was glorious light
which man's eye could not see, for there was joy in the presence of the angels of God over
at least one penitent sinner in Langhurst.  But how full of gloom to most!  Many had been cut
off in the midst of their sins, and those who mourned their loss sorrowed as those who have
no hope.  Two of poor Johnson's persecutors were suddenly snatched away in their impenitence
and hardness of heart, a third was crippled for life.  Yet the drink kept firm hold of its
victims--the very night of the explosion the "George" gathered a golden harvest. Death in its
ghastliest forms only seemed to whet the thirst for the drink.  At one house, while the blackened
corpse lay in its clothes on the outside of the bed, preparatory to its being laid out, the
dead man's widow and her female helpers sat refreshing themselves, and driving away care, with
large potations of tea, made palatable with rum, and that so near the corpse that any one of
the party could have touched it without rising from her seat.

The shock caused by the explosion was a terrible one, but its stunning effects passed away,
only to leave the most who felt that shock harder and more indifferent than ever.  Yet in one
house that awful blow was found to be a messenger of mercy.  Thomas Johnson rose from his bed
of pain a changed and penitent man.  Oh, what a happy day it was to Ned Brierley and his little
band of stanch Christian abstainers, when Thomas came forward, as he soon did, and manfully
signed the pledge, as resolved henceforth to be, with God's help, consistent and uncompromising
in his entire renunciation of all intoxicating drinks!

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

MIDNIGHT DARKNESS.

When Thomas Johnson signed the pledge, a storm of persecution broke upon him which would have
rather staggered an ordinary man; but, as we have said before, Thomas was no ordinary character,
but one of those men who are born to do good service under whatever banner they may range themselves.
He had long served in Satan's army, and had worked well for him.  But now he had chosen another
Captain, even the Lord Jesus Christ himself, and he was prepared to throw all the energy and
decision of his character into his work for his new and heavenly Master, and to endure hardness
as a good soldier of the Captain of his salvation.  For he had need indeed to count the cost.
He might have done anything else he pleased, except give up the drink and turn real Christian,
and no one would have quarrelled with him.  He might have turned his wife and daughter out
to starve in the streets, and his old boon-companions would have forgotten all about it over
a pot of beer.  But to sign the pledge?--this was indeed unpardonable.  And why?  Because the
drunkard cannot afford to let a fellow-victim escape: he has himself lost peace, hope, character,
home, happiness, and is drinking his soul into hell, and every fellow-drunkard reformed and
removed from his side makes his conscience more bare, and exposed to the glare of that eternal
wrath which he tries to shut out from his consciousness, and partly succeeds, as he gathers
about him those like-minded with himself.  So every petty insult and annoyance was heaped upon
Johnson by his former companions: they ridiculed his principles, they questioned his sincerity,
they scoffed at the idea of his continuing firm, they attributed all sorts of base motives
to him.  He was often sorely provoked, but he acted upon the advice of that holy man who tells
us that, when people throw mud at us, our wisdom is to leave it to dry, when it will fall off
of itself, and not to smear our clothes by trying of ourselves to wipe it off.  He had hearty
helpers in Ned Brierley and his family; Ned himself being a special support, for the persecutors
were all afraid of him.  But his chief earthly comforter was Betty.  Oh, how she rejoiced in
her father's conversion and in his signing the pledge!  Oh, if Samuel would only write, how
happy she should be!  She would write back and tell him of the great and blessed change wrought
by grace in their father, and maybe he would come back again to them when he heard it.  But
he came not, he wrote not; and this was the bitterest sorrow to both Betty and her father.
Johnson knew that his own sin had driven his son away, and he tried therefore to take the trial
patiently, as from the hand of a Father who was chastening him in love.  Betty longed for her
brother's return, or at least to hear from him, with a sickening intensity, which grew day
by day; for though she was really convinced that he had not destroyed himself, yet dreadful
misgivings would cross her mind from time to time.  The knife, with its discoloured blade,
was still in her possession, and the mystery about it remained entirely unexplained.  But she
too prayed for patience, and God gave it to her; for hers was the simple prayer of a loving,
trusting, and believing heart.  Perhaps, however, the sorest trial to both Johnson and his
daughter was the conduct of Alice.  She was bitterly incensed at her husband's signing the
pledge.  No foul language was too bad for him; and as for Betty, she could hardly give her
a civil word.  They both, however, bore it patiently.  At one time she would be furious, at
another moodily silent and sulky for days.  But what made the miserable woman most outrageous
was the fact that her husband would not trust her with any money, but put his wages into the
hands of Betty, to purchase what was wanted for the family, and to pay off old scores.  She
was therefore at her wits' end how to get the drink, for the drink she would have.  Johnson,
with his characteristic decision, had gone round to the different publicans in Langhurst and
the neighbourhood, taking Ned Brierley with him as witness, and had plainly given them to understand
that he would pay for no more drink on his wife's account.  He then came home and told her
what he had done, when he was alone with her and Betty.  Poor miserable woman!  She became
perfectly livid with passion, and was about to pour out her rage in a torrent of furious abuse,
when Johnson rose from his seat, and looking her steadily in the face, said in a moderately
loud and very determined voice,--

"Alice, sit you down and hearken to me."

There was something in his manner which forced her to obey.  She dropped into a chair by the
fire, and burst into a hurricane of tears.  He let her spend herself, and then, himself sitting
down, he said,--

"Alice, you've known me long enough to be sure that I'm not the sort of man to be turned from
my purpose.  You and I have lived together many years now, and all on 'em's been spent in the
service of the devil.  I'm not laying the blame more on you nor on myself.  I've been the worse,
it may be, of the two.  But I can't go on as I have done.  The Lord has been very merciful
to me, or I shouldn't be here now.  I've served the old lad too long by the half, and I mean
now to serve a better Mayster, and to serve him gradely too, if he'll only help me--and our
Betty says she's sure he will, for the Book says so.  Now, if I'm to be a gradely servant of
the Lord Jesus Christ, I must be an honest man--I must pay my way if I can; but I can't pay
at all if my brass is to go for the drink--and you know, Alice, you can't deny it, that you'd
spend the brass in drink if I gave it yourself.  But, more nor that, if I'd as much brass as'd
fill the coal-pit, shaft and all, I'd not give my consent to any on it's going for the drink.
I know that you can do without the drink if you've a mind.  I know you'll be all the better
by being without it.  I know, and you know yourself, that it's swallowed up the clothes from
your own back, and starved and beggared us all.  If you'll give it up, and live without it
like a Christian woman should, you'll never have an afterthought; and as soon as I see that
you can be trusted with the brass, I'll give it you again with all my heart.  Come, Alice,
there's a good wench; you mustn't think me hard.  I've been a hard husband, and fayther too,
for years, but I must be different now; and I'll try and do my duty by you all, and folks may
just say what they please."

Alice did not reply a word; her passion had cooled, and she sat rocking herself backwards and
forwards, with her apron to her eyes, sobbing bitterly.  She knew her husband too well to think
of deliberately attempting to make him change his purpose, yet she was equally resolved that
the drink she would and must have.  At last she said, with many tears,--

