Poluski, hard at work at his frescoes since an early hour, and grudgingly snatching a hasty
meal at midday, was surprised when Joan came to him after the King's departure and told him
that she meant to finish her picture that afternoon. He made no comment, however, indeed he
was glad of her company, and the two drove away together in the capacious closed carriage that
brought them to and fro between cathedral and palace. During their working hours, they refused
to be hampered by the presence of servants. An old Greek, who acted as caretaker, took charge
of canvases, easels, paintboxes, and other utensils of the painter's craft, and he came out
gleefully from his lodge as soon as their vehicle rumbled under the deep arch of the outer porch.

Usually, Joan had a word and a smile for him, though the extent of her Greek conversation was
a phrase or two learned from Felix; but to-day she hardly seemed to see him, and lost not a
moment in settling down to work. She had not much to do; in fact, so far as Felix took note
of her action, after adjusting the canvas and mixing some colors on the palette, she sat idle
for a long time, and even then occupied herself with an unnecessary deepening of tints in the
picture, which already displayed an amazing resemblance to its stilted and highly colored prototype.

At last she spoke, and Felix, perched on a platform above her head, was almost startled by
the sorrow laden cadence of her voice.

"I did not really come here to-day to paint," she said. "The picture is finished; my work in
Delgratz is ended. You and Pauline are the only two people in the world whom I can trust, and
I have brought you here, Felix, to tell you that I am leaving Delgratz to-night."

The hunchback slid down from the little scaffolding he had constructed to enable him to survey
the large area covered by the frescoes. "I suppose I have understood what you said," he cried.
"It is impossible to focus one's thoughts properly on the spoken word when a huge dome adds
vibrations of its own, and I admit that I am invariably irritated myself when I state a remarkable
fact with the utmost plainness and people pretend to be either deaf or dull of comprehension."

That was Poluski's way. He never would take one seriously; but Joan merely sighed and bent
her head.

"You say you are leaving Delgratz to-night! May one ask why?" he went on, dropping his bantering
manner at once.

"No," she said.

Felix bassooned a few deep notes between his lips. "You have some good reason for telling me
that, I presume?" he muttered, uttering the first words that occurred to his perplexed brain.

"Yes, the very best of reasons, or at least the most convincing. I cannot remain here unless
I marry Alec, and as I have absolutely determined not to marry him, it follows that I must go."

"Ah, you are willing to give some sort of reason, then," he said. "At present I am muddled.
One grasps that unless you marry Alec you must go; but why not marry Alec? It sounds like a
proposition of Euclid with the main clauses omitted."

"I am sorry, Felix, but I cannot explain myself further. You came to Delgratz with me; will
you return with me to Paris? If not, will you at least promise to help me to get away and keep
secret the fact that I am going?"

Felix grew round eyed with amazement; but he managed to control his tongue. "You are asking
a good deal, dear," he said. "Do you know what you are doing? Do you realize what your action
will mean to Alec? What has happened? Some lover's tiff. That is unlike you, Joan. If you run
off in this fashion, you will be trying most deliberately to break poor Alec's heart."

Joan uttered a queer little choking sob, yet recovered her self control with a rapidity that
disconcerted Felix far more than she imagined at the moment.

"He will suffer, I know," she murmured, "and it does not console me to feel that in the end
I shall suffer far more; but I am going, Felix, whatsoever the cost, no matter whose heart
may be broken. Heaven help me! I must go, and I look to you for assistance. Oh, my friend,
my friend! I have only you in all the world. Do not desert me in my need!"

She had never before seen Felix really angry; but even in the extremity of her distress she
could not fail to note a strange glitter in the gray eyes now fixed on her in a fiery underlook.
The little man was deeply moved; for once in his life he did not care how much he showed his
resentment.

"Saperlotte!" he growled. "What has come to you? Is it you who speak, or the devil? You are
possessed of a fiend, Joan, a fiend that is tempting you to do this wrong!"

Joan rose, pale faced and resolute. Despite the flood of rage and despair that surged in Poluski's
quivering frame, she reminded him of a glimpse he caught of her in that last desperate moment
when the door of the hotel was battered open by the insurgents and her mind was already fixed
on death as a blessed relief from the horror of life.

"I only ask you to believe in my unalterable purpose," she said with a calmness that stupefied
him. "If no other means presents itself, I should wander out of the palace in the darkness
and endeavor to reach Austria by the ferry across the Danube. I believe there are difficulties
for the stranger if one goes that way; but again I throw myself on your mercy, Felix, and appeal
to you for guidance and help. This is my worst hour. If you fail me now, I shall indeed be
wretched."

Felix leaned against an upright of the scaffolding and passed a trembling hand over his forehead.
"Forgive me, Joan, if I have spoken harshly!" he muttered in the dubious voice of a man who
hardly knows what he is saying.

"There is nothing to forgive. It is I, rather, who should seek forgiveness from you for imposing
this cruel test of friendship. But what can I do, Felix? I am a woman and alone, and, when
I think of what lies before me, I am afraid."

With a great effort he steadied himself. Placing both hands on the girl's shoulders, he turned
her face to the light that fell from a small rose window in a side aisle. In silence he looked
at her, seeking to wring the secret of this madness from her steadfast eyes.

"Ma belle," he cried suddenly, "I am beginning to believe that you are in earnest."

"No matter how many years it may please God to leave me on earth, I shall never be more resolved
on anything than on my departure from Delgratz to-night."

"You place trust in me, you say in one breath, yet you deny it in another. Tell me then, Joan,
what is the obstacle that has arisen to prevent you from marrying Alec? It all hinges on that.
Who has been lying to you?"

She could not continue to meet his accusing eyes. It seemed to her that if he urged her more
her heart would burst. Yielding to the impulse of the hunted animal, she wrenched herself free
and turned to run somewhere, anywhere, so that she might avoid his merciless inquisition. A
harsh laugh fell on her ears, and nothing more effective to put a stop to her flight could
have been devised.

"Name of a name!" he roared, "shall we not take our pictures? If we are false to all else,
let us at least be true to our harmless daubs!"

The taunt was undeserved and glanced unheeded from the shield of the girl's utter misery. Perhaps
because that was so, the Pole's next words were tender and soothing.

"Come, then, my Joan," he growled, "never shall it be said against me that I deserted a comrade
in distress. I hoped to see you happily wedded. It was my fantasy that Alec and you would inaugurate
a new line of monarchs and thus bring about the social revolution from an unexpected quarter.
But I was mistaken. Holy blue! never was man so led astray since Eve strolled into the wrong
orchard and brought Adam with her!"

By this time he had caught her. He held her arm, and began to stroke one of her hands softly
as if she had shown symptoms of falling in a faint. "We will go, mignonne," he soothed her,
"you and I, and none here shall know till we have crossed the frontier. Not even then will
they guess what has become of us, unless you find it in your heart to leave some little word
for Alec. You will do that? You will save him from despair, from the torture of doubt----"

"Oh, Felix, spare me!" she sobbed convulsively.

"But one must look squarely at the facts, mignonne. If you run away and give no sign, it can
only be supposed that you have met with some evil fate. There are others than Alec who will
think that disaster has befallen you, and they will have uneasy souls, and Alec will look into
their guilty faces with the eyes of a wrathful lover, which at such times can be superhuman,
terrible, heart piercing. There is no knowing whose blood will stain his hands then; for he
will accept from no one but yourself the assurance that you have left him of your own free will."

"That, at least, is true," she said wearily. "I shall write a letter which must be given to
him when I am gone."

"Grand Dieu! what a resolute will is yours, Joan! Have you counted the cost? Leave Alec out
of it; but do you think his hog of a father, his easily swayed mother, Stampoff, the short
sighted and patriotic, or that scheming Greek and his puppet Marulitch, will gain the ends
for which, between them, they have contrived your flight? Do you know Alec so little as to
believe that he will leave the field clear to that crew? Why, dear heart, he will sweep them
aside like an angry god! They have bewitched your brain with some tale of the evil that will
accrue to the King if he weds the woman he loves. If that is all, it is a fiction fit only
to frighten a child. Hear me, Joan! You are not helping Alec by tearing yourself away from
Delgratz; but condemning to the deepest hell not him alone but some millions of people who
have done no wrong. They gave their honest affections to this boy, because he strikes their
imagination as a King sent straight from Heaven. It is a vile plot, dear heart, to drive Alec
from Kosnovia. How can you, of all women, lend yourself to it?"

Felix could not guess how his words lacerated the unhappy girl's soul; but she did not falter
in her purpose, and again endeavored to rush from the church. Poluski uttered a queer click
with his tongue. It testified that he had done his uttermost and failed.

"Be it so, then!" he muttered. "Help me to pack up these masterpieces. I can plan and scheme
with any man living; but I cannot cope with heavy parcels of holiness."

Joan, distraught though she was, felt that he had given way. Without another word she assisted
in packing the carriage with their canvases and other belongings. The old Greek caretaker hobbled
after them when he saw that they were going without depositing their paraphernalia in the lodge
as usual.

"You will come back some day and copy another picture, I hope, Excellency," he cried, doffing
his cap to Joan.

She opened her purse, since she did not understand what the old man was saying.

"No, no, Excellency," he protested. "The King himself told me you were not to be pestered by
beggars. I have threatened to crack the skulls of one or two who persisted in annoying you,
and it would ill become me to take a reward for doing what the King ordered."

"He will not accept anything," said Felix. "I may not tell you what else he said, since he
only put my arguments in simpler words."

He shot a quick look at her, hoping to find some slight sign of weakening; but her marble face
wore the expression of one who has suffered so greatly that the capacity for suffering is exhausted.
From that instant Felix urged her no more. He obeyed her without question or protest, contriving
matters so that when she quitted the palace, deeply veiled, to walk to the station, the soldiers
on guard imagined she was a serving maid going into the town.

Pauline, though prepared to be faithful at any hazard, wept when she was told that she must
stay in Delgratz and face the storm that would rage when she delivered into the King's own
hand the letter Joan intrusted to her care. But even Pauline herself realized that if her mistress
was to escape from Delgratz unnoticed, she, the maid, must remain there till the following
day. By that time there would be no reason why Joan's maid should not leave openly for the
west, and the Frenchwoman was only too thankful at the prospect of a speedy exit from "this
city of brigands" to protest too strenuously against the rôle thrust upon her by Felix.

As events unrolled themselves, the two travelers encountered no difficulty in leaving Delgratz.
It will be remembered that Beliani's foresight had provided them with return tickets to Paris,
and this circumstance aided them greatly. In those closely guarded lands where keen eyed scrutineers
keep watch and ward over a frontier, the production of the return half of a ticket issued in
the same city as a passport at once lulls any doubt that might arise otherwise.

Moreover, Joan and Felix occupied separate carriages, and the Belgrade officials, concerned
only with the examination of tickets, gave no heed to them, though one man seemed to recognize
Felix and grinned in a friendly way. Passport formalities did not trouble them till the train
had crossed the Tave River and was already in Austrian territory. The frontier officers could
not possibly know them. Their papers were in order, and received only a passing glance. Even
Joan, adrift in a sea of trouble, saw that it was a far easier matter to leave the Balkan area
than to enter it.

They arranged to meet in the dining saloon, when all necessity for further precaution would
have disappeared. Felix was astounded at the self possession Joan now displayed. She was pale
but quite calm. Her eyes were clear and showed no traces of grief. Even her very manner was
reverting to that good humored tone of frank camaraderie that the unavoidable ceremoniousness
of the last fortnight had kept in subjection. Which Homer describes so much more vivid than any
poet? Because he looks so much more. We talk about poetry so abstractly because we have to maintain
all bad poets. Basically phenomenon is the aesthetic easy, you only have the ability, lively
game to see a perpetually and forever ghost bands surrounded by live, one is a poet, you just feel
the urge to transform oneself and other bodies and souls way out of
, one is a dramatist. The Dionysian excitation is capable of a whole mass
of this artistic talent to communicate in, is such a ghost band surrounded
by seeing with which they are inwardly one white.

This process of Tragoedienchors is the dramatic primary phenomenon: self before
see themselves transformed and act now, as if we really in another
body, another character would be entered into.

This process is at the beginning of the development of the drama. Here is something else than the rhapsodist,
the images do not merge with his, but the painter similar, except
with the viewer's eye to see, is already an abandonment of the stop
in a foreign individual by nature.

And this phenomenon occurs in epidemic: a whole host feels enchanted in this way. The Dithyramb
is of any other choir singing differed significantly, the maidens, who, laurel branches in their hands,
solemnly to the Temple of Apollo draw and with this procession, song, sing a stay. Who they
are and keep their civic names: the dithyrambic choir a chorus of transformed ones, outside
which their civic past and social forgotten completely position:
they are the most timeless of all Gesellschaftssphaeren living servant
of God has become for.

All other choral lyric of the Greeks is only a tremendous increase in the Apollonian Einzelsaengers,
while in the Dithyramb a congregation of unconscious actors stands before us that even among
each other as transformed to watch. The Enchantment is the precondition
of all dramatic art. In this enchantment the Dionysian swarms are seen
as a satyr, and as a satyr he looks again to the God that is, he does his transformation
in a new vision outside himself as Apollonian perfection of his condition.

With this new vision drama is complete. After this knowledge have We tragedy as the Dionysian chorus to
understand the Greek, is always new again in an Apollonian world of images discharged from. Those
choruses with which the tragedy is durchflochten are so certain extent
the mother-womb of the whole so-called dialogue that is the whole
Buehnenwelt, the real drama .

In several consecutive to discharge radiates this primal ground of tragedy vision of the drama from
that: the very dream phenomenon and as such an epic nature, on the other hand, however, when
Objectivation a Dionysian state, not the Apollonian salvation in appearance, but on the contrary,
the breaking of the individual and his identification with the primordial
being is.

Thus, the drama is the Apollonian Dionysian sensibilization findings and effects, and thus by an enormous
gulf separated from epics like. The chorus of Greek tragedy, the
symbol of the whole Dionysian mass is excited at this we believe
its full Declaration.

While we, with the usual to the position of a chorus on the modern stage, especially as an
opera chorus, even could not understand how that tragic chorus of the Greeks older, original,
yes should be more important than the actual "action" - as but handed down considerably so
- while we were with traditional high importance and originality that could not rhyme again why he's really
very low serving nature, at first only bocksartigen satyrs been assembled from so was the orchestra
before us during the Scene always remained an enigma We are now come to the realization that the scene
together with the action at the bottom and was only originally intended as a vision that the only
"reality is just the chorus," the vision of itself and produces from
it with all the symbolism of the dance, sound and the word is talking
about.

This choir looks into his vision of his lord and master Dionysus and is therefore eternally serving
the choir: it looks like this, the god, suffers and glorifies himself, and is therefore not itself. With
this, the god compared well serving position, he is still the highest, namely Dionysian expression
of the nature and talk about like this, in the enthusiasm of Oracle and Weisheitssprueche: as
the compassionate end he is also the wise, from the heart of the world truth proclaim. arises
Thus those fantastic and so offensive apparently figure of the wise
and enthusiastic satyr, who is also "the dumb man" Contrary to the god
is in: the image of nature and its strongest shoots, and even a symbol
of that and also proclaim their wisdom and art: musician, Poet, dancer,
visionary in one person. Dionysus, the real Buehnenheld and center
of the vision is, according to this knowledge and according to tradition,
first, in the very earliest period of the tragedy, not truly available,
but only present represented as: ie, originally is the tragedy only
"chorus" and not "drama."

Later is now the attempt made, as a real to show God and the vision of form, together with the
transfiguring setting as each eye display visible, thus begins the "drama" in the strict sense.
Now get the dithyrambic chorus the task, the mood of the audience to such a degree stimulate Dionysian,
that when the tragic hero of the stage appears to not the misshapen masked people see, but a quasi
their own from rapture born vision form. thinking we Admetus with deep thought his recently departed
wife Alcestis remembering and quite the spiritual contemplation of them are consuming - as he
now suddenly a share similar features, similar to border image of women
in disguise is countercurrent: let us imagine his sudden trembling
restlessness, his stormy compare its instinctive conviction - then
we have an analogy to the sensation, the excited audience with the
god on stage heranschreiten saw the Dionysian, with whose suffering
he has become one already.

Instinctively, he transferred all his soul trembling before the image
of God in those magical masked figure and dismatched their reality as
if a ghostly unreality in. This is the Apollonian Traumeszustand in the
world of the day, hiding the and a new world, a clear, comprehensible,
more moving than that but a shadow, in perpetual change to our eyes
again gives birth.

Accordingly, we recognize in tragedy a drastic style opposition: language, color, motion, dynamics
of speech appear in the Dionysian lyric of the chorus and the other in
the Apollonian dream world of the scene as a completely separate
spheres of expression from each other.

The Apollonian appearances in which Dionysus objectified, are no longer "an eternal sea, a changing
weaving, a fervent life" as it is the music of the choir, no longer the
only perceived, not the image of compacted forces in which the enthusiastic
Dionysusdiener the vicinity of the God felt: now speaks of the scene
from the clarity and strength of epic design to him, now more Dionysus
speaks not by forces, but as an epic hero, almost with the language
of Homer 9.

Everything in the Apollonian part of Greek Tragedy, in the dialogues, the surface comes to looks,
simple, transparent, beautifully made. In this sense, the dialogue
is a reflection of the Greeks, whose nature reveals itself in the dance because
the dance is only potentially biggest force in, but in the suppleness
and luxury of the movement betrays. So we surprised the language of
Sophocles' heroes by their Apollonian precision and brightness, so
we immediately into the inner reason of their nature to look to fancy,
with some surprise that the road up to this reason, short is so.

But if we once from which the surface and become visible coming from the
character of the hero - the reason is nothing more than a dark wall
a photograph that is thrown on appearance through and through - but
we urge the myth in one of these in bright reflections are projected,
we suddenly experience a phenomenon that is a known optical inverse
ratio one has to.

If we are a strong attempt in the eye to take the sun for us blinded
away, we have dark colored spots, as it as a remedy before the eyes:
conversely, those photo symptoms of Sophocles' hero, in short, the
Apollonian of the mask, necessary generations of a look into the
Internal and horror of nature, as it were bright spots for the healing
of the ghastly night-torn of gaze.

Only in this sense we are allowed to believe that the serious and important concept of "Greek
serenity" hold true to, while we, however, the misunderstood concept of serenity in the state
unchallenged contentment all ways and paths to meet the present. The
sorrowful figure of the Greek stage, the unfortunate Oedipus, as
the noble man understood was Sophocles from where and to the misery
in spite of his wisdom determined is mistaken for that but at the
end of his immense suffering a magical blessed power by itself is
putting through, the nor about his demise is also effective.

The noble man does not sin, we will tell the profound poet: his actions
may any law, any natural order, the moral world to basically go so,
by this very act is a higher magical circle of effects given that a new
world on the ruins of the fallen old founder. They want us, the poet, so far
as he of religious thinkers is also to say: as a poet, he shows us
first a wonderfully pursed process node, which the judge slowly,
limb for limb, solves to his own destruction, and the Hellenic great
joy in this dialectical solution is so large that a train of superior
thus joy about the whole work comes, the horrible conditions that
the tip breaks off the process everywhere.

In "Oedipus at Colonus" we take this same serenity, but in an infinite
Transfiguration lifted; to the excess of misery affected old people
opposite, who all, as for him purely as disclosed is a sufferer, -
is the unearthly serenity, the divine sphere comes down, and us suggests
that the hero in his purely passive conduct its highest Activity obtained,
the far about life transcends his, while his conscious Tichten and
costumes in the former life it only passivity led to has.

So the for the mortal eye inextricably intertwined process nodes
of Oedipusfabel unravels slowly - and the deepest human joy over us with
this divine counterpart of the dialectic.

When we meet the poet have become with this explanation, there can still be asked whether the
content of the myth is so exhausted: and this shows that the whole conception of the poet
is nothing more than just that photo, which we, after a look into the abyss, the curative nature
issued. Oedipus the murderer of his father, the husband of his mother, Oedipus Raethselloeser
of the Sphinx! What this tells us the mysterious triad Schicksalsthaten? There is an ancient
Persian particularly popular belief that a wise magician Incest can be born only from what we,
in view of the raethselloesenden wooed Oedipus and his mother, interpretiren have so immediately,
that where by prophetic and magical forces the spell of present and future, the rigid law of individuation,
and anyway the real magic of nature is broken, huge unnatural - as there the Incest - as a cause
must be preceded, for how could they force the natural abandonment of their secrets to, if not
the fact that one its victorious reluctant to say, by the unnatural? This knowledge, I see that horrible
trinity of Oedipusschicksale pronounced in: the same, the riddle of nature - that doppeltgearteten
Sphinx - solves this, we also as a murderer of the father and husband
of Mother Nature's most sacred ordinances break. Yes, the myth seems
to want to whisper to us that wisdom and it is the Dionysian wisdom
an unnatural abomination that is, that he that his knowledge of nature
into the abyss of destruction come crashing through, even the dissolution
of nature to learn and to have .

'The point of wisdom turns against the wise: Wisdom is a crime against nature ": those awful sentences
calls us the myth of: the Hellenic poet, but prejudice as a ray of
sunshine, the sublime and terrible Memnon of myth, so that he suddenly
begins to sound - in Sophocles melodies!

The glory of passivity I present now the glory Activity opposite to
that which illumined the Prometheus of Aeschylus. What we Aeschylus
the thinker had to say here, what he as a poet by his image gleichnissartiges
us only suspect but leaves, which the young Goethe in his words, Prometheus
to reveal the daring us know, "Here I sit, forming men image, a race
that I just had to suffer my According to cry, to enjoy and to rejoice,
and your not too sure as I do!

"The man who's in Titanic be incremental, fights for his own culture
and compels the gods to unite with him because he in his wisdom selbsteignen
the existence and the limits of that his hand has. The most wonderful
thing in that Prometheusgedicht that his basic idea of the actual
hymn of impiety is after, but the deep Aeschylus train to justice:
the untold suffering of the brave "individuals" on one side, and the
Divine necessity, so anticipation of a Forsaken Gods at the others,
the reconciliation, to the metaphysical oneness compelling power of
those two suffering worlds - all reminiscent of the strongest in the
center and law of Aeschylus world view which about gods and humans
Moira as righteousness enthroned sees eternal for.

The astonishing boldness with which Aeschylus the Olympic world is
on its Gerechtigkeitswagschalen us we have to realize that the profound
Greek firm solid ground of metaphysical thinking in his mystery had
one, and that all the Olympians were able to unload his skeptical Anwandelungen
on. The Greek artist felt in particular a dark feeling to these deities
of mutual dependence: and especially in the Prometheus of Aeschylus
is this feeling symbolized.

The titanic artists found in himself the defiant belief that people create and destroy can at least
Olympic gods: and this by his higher wisdom, which he certainly suffering to hear of him with
everlasting forced. That was wonderful "Can" of great genius, which with sorrow for low pay
is eternal self, the bitter pride of the artist - this is the content and soul of Aeschylus seal,
while Sophocles in his Oedipus the victory song of the Holy intones
praeludirend. But even with that interpretation, which Aeschylus has
given myth which is the amazing horror depth is not measured: rather,
the joyous birth of the artist, to any disaster-defying serenity of
artistic creativity only a light cloud and sky image, based on a black
sea of sadness reflected.

The Prometheus saga is a primordial property of the whole Aryan Voelkergemeinde and a Document for talent
for profound, tragic, yes it would like, not without probability be their, that this myth of the Aryan
nature of the very same characteristic meaning resides for the the Suendenfallmythus the Semitic
is for, and that between the two myths one degree of relationship exists, as between brother
and sister. The requirement that Prometheusmythus is the exuberant value, the naive man the fire
attributed to one as the true palladium of any emerging culture: but that man freely about fire
prevails that and it only through a gift from heaven, a kindling lightning or warm sun can not
receive, people seemed to those contemplative primitive as a crime as a rape of the divine in
nature. And that is just the first philosophical problem, a awkward
insoluble contradiction between man and God through him, and disassociates
herself as a rock in the gate of each culture.
 He determined that it should be dealt
with at once if possible. If not, he had already decided on his own line of action.

"I am sorry that in such a matter, affecting, as it does, the whole of my future life," he
said, "I should be so completely at variance with what is evidently the common view of my trusted
friends in this Council; but I cannot forget that, for good or ill, I am King of Kosnovia,
while you may rest assured, gentlemen, that no consideration you can urge will prevent me from
marrying the lady of my choice. Of course, it is conceivable that my kingship and my marriage
may clash. In that event I shall take the consequences of my action; I must even justify myself
to the Assembly, if need be. It is well that the President should have made me acquainted with
the views you all hold with such apparent unanimity. It is also well that you should be aware
of my decision. Very often, when men think they have reached absolute disagreement, a way opens
itself unexpectedly whereby the difficulties vanish. In this instance, certainly, it is hard
to see how any solution of our dispute can be attained that shall satisfy both you and me.

"I shall marry Miss Vernon, probably within a fortnight. I shall marry her, gentlemen, even
though it costs me my throne; but I would remind you that we in this room are not Kosnovia.
Let us keep our heads and guard our tempers. If an appeal is to be made to the nation, let
it be by votes rather than by swords. I have never deviated from my fixed principle that I
would sooner pass the remainder of my life poor and unknown than obtain an hour's extension
of my rule by spilling the blood of an unoffending people. But I ask from you the same concession
that I am willing to make myself. Until deposed, I retain the privilege of a King. Is this
matter to be regarded as a test of ministerial confidence? Do all you gentlemen resign your
portfolios?"

The President, agitated and stuttering, sprang to his feet. "For my part," he declared, "I
expressed my views in an informal manner."

"Yes, yes," agreed several voices. The turn given to the discussion by Alec was quite unforeseen
and far from their liking.

"It has ever been your Majesty's wish that we should state our opinions fully and freely,"
continued the agitated Nesimir. "I, for one, was only anxious to make known to you the sentiments
that obtain currency in my own circle. I may be wrong. Delgratz is not Kosnovia----"

"Rubbish!" shouted Stampoff, hammering the table with a clenched fist. "That which has been
said here to-day will be heard openly in the streets of the capital to-night. To-morrow it
will be preached far and wide throughout the confines of the country by every man who has its
welfare at heart. This marriage must not take place, I say! I came here from exile with the
King and was prepared to give my life to establish him on the throne. I am prepared now to
offer the same poor sacrifice if it will save my beloved land from a catastrophe--and this
proposed mesalliance is nothing less!"

A curious thrill convulsed the Council. Every Serb there was stirred by the General's bold
avowal; but Alec stilled the rising storm by a calm announcement:

"I suggest that we defer this discussion till to-morrow morning," he said. "It has found me
unprepared, and, if I am not very much mistaken, many of the gentlemen here did not anticipate
that the question would be raised to-day in its present acute form."

It was evident that the majority of ministers favored the adoption of the King's proposal;
but Stampoff scowled at them angrily and drowned their timorous agreement by his resentful cry:

"God's bones! Why wait till to-morrow?"

Then, indeed, Alec was stung beyond endurance. "Perhaps, in the circumstances, General," he
said, "it would be advisable that you should absent yourself from to-morrow's Council."

"Not while I am Minister for War!" came the fiery response.

"That is for you to decide," said the King.

"Then I decide now! I resign!"

"Excellent! By that means you salve your conscience; whereas I hope still to retain the friendship
of Kosnovia's most faithful son by refusing to accept your resignation."

A shout of applause drowned Stampoff's vehement protest, and Alec seized the opportunity to
hurry from the Council chamber. He did not try to conceal from himself the serious nature of
this unexpected crisis, though he was far from acknowledging that the people at large attached
such significance to his wife's nationality as Stampoff and the others professed to believe.
Puzzle his wits as he might, and did, he failed utterly to account for Stampoff's uncompromising
tone. The old Serb and he were the best of friends. He had taken no single step without first
consulting the man who had been his political tutor since his boyhood. Even when he ran counter
to Stampoff's advice, he had always listened to it eagerly, and he invariably took the utmost
pains to show why he had adopted another course.

Till that day there had never been the shadow of a breach between them. How, then, was the
War Minister's irreconcilable attitude to be explained? Was Cousin Julius pulling the strings
in some unrecognized manner? Was Beliani a party to the scheme? These questions must be answered,
and speedily. Meanwhile, by hook or by crook, he must keep all knowledge of the dispute from
Joan's ears until after the wedding.

In the palace courtyard a man standing near the gates tried to pass the sentries when the King
arrived. He was instantly collared. Undersized, poorly clad, and poverty stricken in appearance,
he was hustled unmercifully by a stalwart Albanian policeman until Alec's attention was drawn
to the scuffle.

A white despairing face became visible for a moment, and a choking voice cried, "Save me, your
Majesty! I am John Sobieski!"

"Sobieski!" thought Alec, ordering his carriage to stop and alighting quickly. "That is the
Polish hotel waiter of whom Felix spoke to me some few days ago. He said the man had done his
best to bring assistance; but his efforts were frustrated by some stupid blunder here, and
he thought something ought to be done for him. I promised to attend to it; but the thing slipped
my mind."

By this time he had reached the policeman, who, assisted by a soldier, was dragging the protesting
waiter to the guardroom.

"Release that man!" he said.

The man saluted, and the trembling Sobieski fell on his knees on the pavement.

"Oh, get up," said the King, who felt a special aversion to such a display of abasement. "Recover
your wits, man, and tell me what you want!"

"I ask protection, your Majesty," murmured the desperate Sobieski. "My life is in danger. I
came here to see Monsieur Poluski; but they told me he was not at home. I have been turned
out of my situation; so I have nowhere to go. If I am found wandering in the streets to-night,
I shall be killed."

"At any rate, you seem to be thoroughly frightened," cried Alec with a reassuring smile. "Take
charge of him," he said to the pandur, "and have him sent to my bureau in five minutes!"

The bureau in question was that apartment on the first floor overlooking the courtyard, in
which Alec had preferred his claim to the throne of Kosnovia to the perplexed President of
the embryo Republic. It was there, too, that Felix Poluski had spoken those plain words to
Prince Michael Delgrado, and its situation was so convenient for the King's daily comings and
goings that he had utilized it temporarily as an office and private audience chamber.

At the top of the stairs he happened to catch sight of Pauline, Joan's staid looking maid.
Though he obtained only a casual glimpse of her, he fancied that she was distressed about something,
and it occurred to him after he was in the room and the door was closed that perhaps she wished
to give him a message. Bosko, the taciturn Albanian whom he had now definitely appointed as
his confidential attendant, was standing near the table with a bundle of documents that demanded
the King's signature.

Realizing that the Frenchwoman would meet Bosko in a minute or two when he went out with the
signed papers, and could then make known her wish to speak to the King if such was her intention,
Alec bent over the table and began to peruse several departmental decrees hurriedly. He made
it a rule never to append his name to any State paper without mastering its contents, and one
of the palace guards brought in Sobieski before Alec had concluded his self imposed task. As
it happened, the various items were mere formalities, and when he wrote "Alexis R." for the
last time, Bosko and the soldier left the room, and the frightened little Pole found himself
alone with the King.

"Now," said Alec kindly, "tell me what you want and why you are so afraid?"

Sobieski at once plunged into a rambling statement. He spoke the Kosnovian language with the
fluent inaccuracy of his class; but Alec's alert ears had no difficulty in following his meaning.
His story was that several customers of the café had denounced him to the proprietor as a spy
in the King's service, while some of them went so far as to charge him with responsibility
for the deaths of those thirty-one heroes of the Seventh Regiment whose bodies had been found
on the stairs and first floor landing of the hotel. His master had no option but to discharge
him, and Sobieski felt that he had good reason to fear that his life was in danger. Alec pooh-poohed
the notion; but the timid little waiter was so woebegone that the King pitied him.

"Tell me exactly what you did on the day of the revolt," he said. "You came here, I understand.
How was it that no one listened to you?"

"Oh, they did, your Majesty," protested Sobieski. "Your Majesty's own father brought me into
the hall and kept me there nearly five minutes. He did not believe a word I said, and was very
angry with me for bringing such an alarming story to the palace. At last, by good fortune,
Monsieur Nesimir appeared; but even then I should have been taken away in custody if Monsieur
Poluski had not caused me to be released."

Despite its sinister significance, Alec could not choose but credit this amazing statement.
He wondered why Felix had not told him the facts in detail afterward; but he knew that the
hunchback's mind worked in strange grooves, and it was probable that his silence was dictated
by some powerful motive. In any event, the incident was an unpleasant reminder of certain nebulous
doubts that he had striven to crush, and it was better that this scared rabbit of a man should
not remain in Delgratz and become the victim of some vendetta which might bring the whole odd
story into prominence.

"You want to leave the city, I take it?" said he after a thoughtful pause, in which he took
a slow turn up and down the room.

"I dare not remain here any longer, your Majesty. I came to-night to ask Monsieur Poluski to
be good enough to give me money to take me to Warsaw."

"I think," said Alec, smiling, "he promised you, in my name, the wherewithal to buy a café."

"I fear I did not earn my reward, your Majesty," stuttered the other.

"Are cafés dear in Warsaw?" said the King, unlocking a drawer and producing roubles to the
equivalent of five hundred dollars. "Here, this sum should give you a fresh start in life.
All I ask in return is that you shall keep a still tongue about your recent share in local events."

Poor Sobieski's gratitude grew incoherent, especially when the King handed him over to the
care of the attendant who had brought him to the bureau, with instructions that he was to be
taken to the railway station and safeguarded there till the departure of the next train that
crossed the frontier.

By that time the dinner hour was long past. Alec was disinclined for a heavy meal; so he went
to his private suite, where he changed his clothes, contenting himself with some sandwiches,
which he ate in a hurry and washed down with a glass of red wine.

Coming down stairs about an hour later, he passed the smoking-room. The door was open, and
he saw that the men had already ended dinner. He was about to enter the music salon, to which
his mother and Joan usually retired with the President's wife and daughter, when he met Pauline
for the second time, and the Frenchwoman now approached him with the same marked nervousness
in her demeanor that he had noticed when he saw her standing in the lobby.

"May I have a word with your Majesty in private?" she asked.

He was surprised; but again he believed she was probably bringing a message from Joan. He threw
open the door of his office. "Come in here," he said. "What is it?"

She held out a letter, and he saw that her hand shook. "Mademoiselle asked me to give you this,
your Majesty," she said. "I was to take care that you were alone when you received it."

"Something important then," he said with a laugh.

Crossing the room to the table on which stood the lamp by whose light he had scribbled "Alexis
R." on the papers intrusted to Bosko, he opened the envelop, which bore in Joan's handwriting
the simple superscription, "Alec," and began to read:

     MY DEAR ONE:--When Pauline gives you this, I shall have left you
     forever. I am going from Delgratz, and I shall never see you again.
     I cannot marry you--but oh, my dear, my dear, I shall love you all
     my life! Try and forget me. I am acting for the best. Do not write
     to Paris or endeavor to find me. If it is God's will, we shall
     never meet again. I can scarcely see what I am writing for my
     tears. So good-by, my Alec! Be brave! Forgive me, and, in the years
     to come, try to forget our few days of happiness together.

          Yours ever,

               JOAN.

He stood there stricken, almost paralyzed with the suddenness of the blow, wondering dumbly
why Joan's hand should have inflicted it. The frightened Frenchwoman dared not speak or move.
She watched him with that impersonal fear so readily aroused in one of her class by the terrifying
spectacle of a strong man in his agony. At last he moved listlessly, as though his limbs had
just been released from the rack. He held the letter under the lamp again and read it a second
time, word for word. He seemed to be forcing himself to accept it as truth. This young King,
so valiant, so resourceful, so prompt in action and judgment, could devise no plan, no means
of rescue from the abyss. After an interval that neither the man nor the woman could measure,
he turned his strained, staring eyes on the shrinking Pauline.

"Have I ever done you any harm?" he said in the low voice of utmost despair.

"Me, monsieur?" she gasped. "You harm me? No, indeed, I was only too proud to think my dear
mistress should have won such a husband."

"Then you will answer my questions truly," he went on, his eyes devouring the woman's homely
features as though he would fain seek some comfort therein.

"Oh yes, indeed, monsieur. Ask me anything. It is not that I have much to tell. Mademoiselle
said, 'Give this letter to the King himself. Let it touch no other hand.' That is all, monsieur.
She was weeping when she wrote it. Monsieur Poluski told me what to do to-morrow about my own
journey. See, here are my tickets."

"Poluski!" said Alec, and the words came dully. "Has he too betrayed me?"

"He has gone with my mistress," sobbed Pauline. "It is not that they have betrayed you, monsieur;
for mademoiselle looked like to die, and I have never seen any one more disturbed than Monsieur
Poluski. He raved like a maniac when I asked him for one word of explanation."

"But what does it mean, woman? Do you understand what has happened? My promised wife has fled,
bidding me not to dream of seeing her again, and with her has gone one of the few men alive
in whom I had confidence. What is that but betrayal?"

"I do not profess to understand the ways of courts, monsieur," said Pauline, gathering a little
courage, since the King appealed to her as a fellow mortal. "But in your case I do not think
I should blame Mademoiselle Joan. She did not go because she had ceased to love you, monsieur.
Sometimes a woman can love a man so well that she will leave him if she thinks it is for his good."

A light broke in on the darkness. Was Joan the victim of some deadly intrigue such as had sullied
too often the records of the Kosnovian monarchy? How strange it was that he should come from
that eventful meeting of the Cabinet and receive within the hour Joan's pathetic message of
farewell! He stood and thought deeply again for many minutes, striving to conquer his laboring
heart and throbbing brain, exerting manfully all his splendid resources of mind and body. Then
he turned to the trembling Frenchwoman and said with almost uncanny gentleness:

"You have done what your mistress asked, Pauline. Come to me to-morrow before you go, and I
will reward you for your faithful service. Leave me now; but tell none what has happened. I
must have time to think, and it would help me if no other person in this house but you shares
with me the knowledge of mademoiselle's departure."

Pauline went out, glad of her dismissal, yet sobbing with sympathy. Alec began to pace the
length of the long dimly lighted room. Back and forth he went, thinking, knitting his brows
in fierce effort to subdue his stunned faculties. By degrees the sad significance of Joan's
words and actions during their visit that morning to the New Konak began to establish itself.
He saw now that she was bidding farewell to her dream of happiness, deliberately torturing
herself with a burden of memories. Even their parting kiss must have given her a twinge of
direst agony; for the one thing he would never believe of Joan was that she had sacrificed
him to some feminine whim, made him the sport of a woman's caprice.

She had been driven from him! By whom? He must discover that, and he gloated with almost insensate
rage at the thought of strangling with his hands the wretch who had done this callous deed.
Physical passion mastered him again, and it was not until he realized the folly of merely dreaming
of vengeance that he forced himself anew into a semblance of calm. He knew that a man blinded
with rage could not deal sanely with this problem of love and statecraft. At first he thought
of questioning individually each person who, by the remotest chance, might be responsible for
Joan's flight. But not only did his impatient heart spurn that slower method of inquisition;
but he realized that he was more likely to discover the truth by gathering instantly in one
room all those persons whose self interest pointed to his undoing. Somehow, Sobieski's disjointed
narrative aroused a dreadful suspicion that was not to be quelled.

He summoned an attendant. "Ask Prince and Princess Delgrado to come here," he said. "Send to
General Stampoff and tell him that the King urgently desires his presence. I believe that Monsieur
Beliani and Count Julius Marulitch are in the smoking-room with Monsieur Nesimir. Ask those
three gentlemen also to join me."

The attendant saluted and withdrew. Alec examined the door to make sure that the key was in
the lock. Hardly conscious of his own purpose, he looked about for a weapon. In the place of
honor, above the fireplace, hung the sword given him by his father in the Rue Boissière. It
evoked bitter memories, and he swung on his heel with a curse, going to the window and staring
out into the night. His brain seethed with strange imaginings, and his breast was on fire.
The sight of that ridiculous sword lying in its sheath of velvet and gold seemed to reveal
the hollowness of life, its mock tragedies, its real agony of tears. All at once the impulse
seized him to look at the bright steel. With a savage laugh he sprang back across the room
and took down the sword. The blade leaped forth at his clutch, and he kissed it in a frenzy.

"You weep, my Joan," he cried. "I know that you weep; but your tempter's lying heart shall
shed drop for drop!"

CHAPTER XIII

WHEREIN A REASON IS GIVEN FOR JOAN'S FLIGHT

A knock sounded on the door. "Their Excellencies the Prince and Princess Delgrado," announced
Bosko, whose jaws underwent strange contortions at being compelled to utter so many syllables
consecutively.

Alec thrust the sword into its scabbard. He did not put the weapon in its accustomed place;
but hid it behind a fold of one of the heavy curtains that shrouded the windows.

"On the arrival of the others whom I have summoned you can usher them in without warning,"
he said to Bosko. "As soon as General Stampoff comes let no other person enter, and remain
near the door until I call you."

"Oui, monsieur," said Bosko. King or no King, he was faithful to his scanty stock of French.

Prince Michael had dined well, having induced his host to depart from the King's injunctions
as to the wine supplied at meals. His puffed face shone redly. It looked so gross and fat,
perched on such a slender frame, that he resembled one of those diminutive yet monstrous caricatures
of humanity seen on the pantomime stage.

"What is the trouble now, Alec?" he asked, glancing quickly round the spacious ill lighted
apartment. "Your man came to me most mysteriously. His manner suggested treasons, spoils, and
stratagems. I met your mother on the stairs. She too, it seems, is in demand."

Alec looked at the strange little creature whom he called father, and from the Prince's gargoyle
head his gaze dwelt on his mother. She had uttered no word. Her eyes met his furtively for
a second and then dropped. She was disturbed, obviously alarmed, and, with a curiously detached
feeling of surprise, he guessed that she knew of Joan's departure. Well, he would bide his
time until all possible conspirators were present. Then, by fair means or foul, he would wring
the truth from them.

"I want to consult my mother and you as to a certain matter," he said, answering Prince Michael
with apparent nonchalance. "I shall not detain you very long. Beliani, Julius, and Monsieur
Nesimir are in the building, and then we only await Stampoff--with whom, by the way, I almost
succeeded in quarreling to-day."

"A quarrel with Stampoff!" exclaimed the elder Delgrado, preening his chest and sticking out
his chin in the exaggerated manner that warned those who knew him best of the imminent expression
of a weighty opinion. "That will never do. Stampoff is the backbone of your administration.
Were it not for our dear Paul, nothing would have been heard of a Delgrado in Kosnovia during
the last quarter of a century. My dear boy, he has kept us alive politically. On no account
can you afford to quarrel with Stampoff!"

Michael's big head wagged wisely; for champagne invariably made him talkative. Nesimir entered;
with him came Count Julius and the Greek.

"Nice thing his Majesty has just told me!" cried Prince Michael, with owl-like gravity. "He
says that Stampoff and he have disagreed. What has gone wrong? Have you heard of this most
unfortunate estrangement, Monsieur Nesimir?"

The President, of course, assumed that some allusion had been made already to the scene in
the Council chamber.

"A serious position has undoubtedly arisen," he said blandly. "His Majesty did not see his
way clear to adopt certain recommendations put forward by his Ministers to-day,--by myself,
I may say, acting on behalf of my colleagues," and he coughed deferentially,--"and General
Stampoff took an active part in the debate. He set forth his views with--er--what I considered
to be--er--unnecessary vehemence. But there," and a flourish of his hand indicated the nebulous
nature of the dispute, "nothing was said that cannot be mended. His Majesty himself had the
tact to adjourn the discussion till to-morrow, and I have little doubt that we shall all be
prepared to consider the matter then like reasonable men."

"But what was it about?" broke in the Prince testily. "Was it with reference to Monsieur Beliani?
I understood that his appointment to the Ministry of Finance was agreed to unanimously."

Beliani coughed, with the modesty of a man who might not discuss his own merits. The President
hesitated before he answered this direct question. He cast a doubtful glance on the King, who
had turned to the window again and seemed to give little heed to the conversation. But Alec
wheeled round. He had heard every word, and, oddly enough in his own estimation, was already
drawing conclusions that were not wholly unfavorable to Prince Michael.

"I have sent for Stampoff," he said, exercising amazing self control in concealing his fierce
desire to have done with subterfuge, "and my message was couched in such terms that he will
hardly refuse to honor us with his presence. Meanwhile, let me rescue you, Monsieur Nesimir,
from the embarrassment of explaining away the difficulty you yourself brought about at to-day's
meeting of the Cabinet. Monsieur Beliani had no rival; no one doubted his ability as a financier.

"The dispute arose in connection with my forthcoming marriage. It was suggested that I should
contract an alliance with a Princess of some reigning house in the Balkans. The obvious corollary
of that view was that Miss Joan Vernon could not be regarded as a suitable bride for the King
of Kosnovia. I declined to accept the recommendation put forward by Monsieur Nesimir,--to whom,
by the way, I attribute the utmost good faith,--and Stampoff, whose patriotic ardor halts at
nothing, practically threatened me with the loss of my Kingdom as the penalty of disobedience.
I said that I was quite willing to leave the whole matter to the arbitrament of the people.
If they decide against my choice of a wife, it follows that there will be a vacancy in the
Delgrado succession."

Princess Delgrado uttered a sigh that was almost a groan. She sank into the chair that her
son had offered her when she entered the room, but rose to her feet again in manifest anxiety
when her husband thrust himself in front of Alec.

"Are we to credit," he broke in furiously, "that you have actually placed your marriage with
this girl before every tie of family and patrimony?"

"That is hardly a fair statement of the facts," said Alec coldly, though it cost him a violent
effort to sustain this unnatural calm when he was aflame with desire to ascertain Joan's motive;
"but it will serve. At any rate, we can defer discussion of that point for the present. We
are gathered here to deal with quite another phase of the dispute, and, with your permission,
I shall leave any further explanation until General Stampoff has arrived."

Although his utterance was measured and seemingly devoid of any excess of feeling, three, at
least, of those in the room were not deceived by his attitude. Princess Delgrado seemed to
be profoundly disquieted, while Beliani and Marulitch strove, not altogether with success,
to carry themselves with the indifference that cloaks uneasiness. Alec turned again to the
window and looked out.

A carriage drove into the courtyard and, though its occupant was invisible, he guessed rightly
that Stampoff had not failed him. Some low conversation went on behind his back, and, although
he was now marshaling his forces for the impending struggle, he became aware that the President
was giving in greater detail an account of the afternoon's proceedings. But he listened only
for the opening of the door. From that instant war should be declared, ruthless war on each
and every person present who had reft him of his promised bride.

Stampoff entered. His keen old eyes instantly took in the significance of the gathering; but
he saluted the King in silence, bowed to Princess Delgrado, and stood stockstill, not a yard
from the door, in the attitude of one who awaits an order, or, it might be, a denunciation.

Alec approached, and the others, including Stampoff himself, thought that he meant to make
some private communication to the newcomer before beginning a debate in which all might share.
But he walked past Stampoff, locked the door, and put the key in his pocket.

"Now," he said, "I am free to explain why we seven are gathered here to-night. Joan Vernon,
who was to have become my wife within a few days, left Delgratz two hours ago by the mail train
for Paris. She was accompanied by Felix Poluski, and the only reason for this clandestine journey
is contained in a few lines of farewell addressed to me by the lady herself. In that letter
she speaks of a barrier that renders impossible a marriage between her and me. I want to know
what that barrier is and who erected it, and I shall discover both those things here and now,
if I have to tear the knowledge from the heart of each man present!"

"A strange threat, Alec," panted Prince Michael, whose prominent eyes were bulging in semi-intoxication,
though indeed he seemed suddenly to have realized the tremendous import of the King's statement,--"a
strange threat to be uttered before your mother!"

"My mother loved Joan," came the impassioned cry. "She took her to her heart from the first
hour, and she will bear with me now in my agony. Yet it may be that even my mother has deceived
me. I cannot tell. Some of you here know, perhaps all; but I vow to Heaven I shall not flinch
from my resolve to extract the truth, no matter with whom the responsibility rests!"

Princess Delgrado, trembling and ghastly pale, tottered to the chair again and gripped its
back to prevent herself from falling. Under less strained conditions, it must have seemed bizarre
in a company of men for whom polite attentions to the opposite sex were a fixed convention,
that she should seek such support when her husband was standing by her side; but in that startled
gathering small heed was given to aught else than the King's thrilling statement.

Though aware of his mother's distress, Alec did not move from the position he had taken up,
facing all of them, and with that hidden sword within easy reach. Ever a dutiful and devoted
son, he continued now to glower at the half-fainting woman as though she alone held the key
of the mystery that resulted in Joan's disappearance. His impassioned eyes sought to peer into
her very soul, and his nostrils quivered with the frenzied eagerness of one who awaited an
answer to the implied question. In some indefinable way he had already begun to suspect the
truth; for when the poor woman made no reply, though more than once her terror laden eyes met
his in mute appeal, he whirled round on Marulitch.

"Perhaps this is an occasion when it is a woman's privilege to remain silent," he said bitterly.
"So I begin with you, Julius. Save myself, you are the youngest here, and it would be fitting
that you and I should determine this business. I warn you there will be no half measures! My
life, at least, goes into the scale, and I care not who else adjusts the balance."

The pink and white tints had long fled from the Parisian dandy's complexion. In the dim light
he looked livid, and his forehead bore bright beads of perspiration. But even Alec's fiery
eyes discerned that he was not only afraid, but bewildered, and his voice cracked with excitement
when he spoke.

"I declare by everything I hold sacred that I had no hand in this affair!" he said shrilly.
"It is natural perhaps that you should suspect me, since I seem to have most to gain by any
ill that befalls you; but, even in your anger, Alec, you should be just. No matter how fierce
your emotions, you ought to realize that Miss Vernon's departure from Delgratz retards rather
than helps any possible scheming on my part to succeed you on the throne."

"Now you, Beliani!" said Alec, striving to penetrate the mask that covered the one impassive
face in the room. "It was you who contrived that my promised wife should come here from Paris.
I can see your purpose now. At to-day's meeting of the Cabinet, while I was urging your advancement
to power and dignity in the State, your hand was revealed in the opposition manifested to my
marriage. Your cunning brain conceived the notion that I would not abandon the woman I loved
for the sake of fifty Kingdoms. "Can you tell me friend," he spoke softly to him, "what the pious
gentleman up there with the two pens thinks, and whether the visually stand there only, or the"
heat of the conversation "in used to be really, perhaps? I have no
right idea of something like that, and would like to teach me. "" It
does me no better, stranger, "said the backwoodsman, sighing -"

I have no right idea of the nature and activities of the people,
this much is certain, that it or pens, as you call them today, tomorrow
or want to do when the Lord up above town prepared and has the other
gentleman with the long dark face only in the ordinary shot, and corridor
has come the fence - if not today, tomorrow you see the course! "And
that is so famous preacher?" asked mulberry little surprised, because
the exterior of the men had not made an impression on him - "The
gentle man who speaks up there now," said Jack with a somewhat bitter
smile, "was last year, a tailor in Little Rock, when suddenly came
the Spirit upon him, as they call it, and he began to preach.

He has" gentle
gift "as the women say one, and if he just starts talking, they cry before
sheer emotion and sadness.

The other is
a Yankee, and was formerly a Pedlar, as we were the "wandering shopkeeper,"
calls for - deceived the world with its Yankee-watches and other junk
he sold the land for encircles, and - was also at one time religious, held
a sell-out with his clocks, of which the women were like mad to buy
one in order, as they thought, the devil at the same time the soul
from one, and also began to preach.

The two are now the most popular speakers we have heard here, and have the other circuit-rider,
if not quite weggebissen, but so pushed into the shadows, that they hardly can see themselves.
Their collections are - at least the main thing - always most abundant also , and for its mild purposes
they take money and money's worth, deer and Racoonfelle, tallow, honey and bear fat. But now
fits on, "he continued, waving his head to the pulpit with the added -" is now Hotte d'ran Mr
Brocken - there will be a hot day, as he cuts a terribly gloomy face.
"Jack shouldered as he spoke the last words, his rifle, turned away
from the pious man, and walked slowly into the forest, while Mr. Hotte
chunk of to thunder began the pulpit, however, and with sparkling
eyes and in the beginning still fairly quiet, but always growing voice
trembling audience the doors flung open the down into the pit of hell
led.

With wild gestures and rolling his eyes, he covered it all the horrors that there the unbelievers, the
pigeons do not hear the bottom of the blind the one wanted to see not waited on, and his words
flowed red-hot from the wild excitement, trembling in her lips. mulberry,
as he would otherwise relating to such matters made was funny, but
suddenly become infinitely aware, pressed, so far, the justly do,
let the front of the sermon to lose no word, and it betrayed a devotion,
a joy, the eyes of the priest himself several times on the pleasing
to him and steered him to let linger.

The one was a tailor, and the other shopkeepers have been enough for the mind - if the body had
to obey the spirit came! - The sermon above continued, mulberry she heard no more, his external
ear was apparently open to his inner contrast, listening to a chaos
of speculations in the brain of the practical Scheer grinder developed,
and to him his "ideas box" with a mass of plans and ideas filled.

This was evening up of and this day was more a preparation for the morrow's battle was, Hotte Brocken
the devil and his accomplices had announced Mr. die; his "warrior" as pious
and believers called the, were prepared and consecrated been the
heavy to fight, and the next sun was setting beams on the soldiers
cast their to the glory of the Lord victorious struggle and struggle
emerged would be with. mulberry wanted more than to know that, and
Jack Owen did not seem to him the right man to do, for he had as much
of the scissors-grinder until now it noticed no pleasure in the whole
affair was, in fact, just come over because he women do not think
was home, and would not let my way alone.

Women are at all in most cases
much better at home, as such Camp Meetings canceled in. Among the
come here worshipers there was one family, the mulberry's attention already
very beginning through the many dishes and the many food boxes to be drawn
by which they are conducted in . The man, as he however asked had was
church elder, and a great benefactor Mr. Hotte Brocken, of the eight
and fourteen days on his way with him was often, and every night
his family preached.

That introductions in Mulberry before dinner, revealed to him the impression that the sermon
this afternoon had made him, and asked him for the life story of the long man, such a fabulous
orator, fire, zeal, and such heat of the language of love God and
Holy Spirit received had such with.

The church elders received him kindly; mulberry had with his fire place, and they eat with, and
told them this story of his life with a fantasy that his old shipmates Theobald have been happy
would be, and also effect not their misguided. He learned it all know what he
wanted - namely, that not a long period of study is necessary to talk
to talented tongue, but that those chosen as beneficiaries of the
Holy Spirit, from the lowest often crafts, from the sinful lifestyle
out of the high dignity to a pastor had risen, and now the lights
would be brothers and sisters on the narrow thorny path of virtue
voranzuleuchten her.

Not even an exam was there required, it took just nothing more than the high natural enthusiasm,
which, for a monthly salary from one of the religious foundations
and associations, their physical well into the hill beat perfectly,
and the work recorded in the vineyard of the Lord. Difficult task was
of course the while, they had not only against the sinful infidels,
but also against the anti-Christ like a lot sects fight others, but
the goal was glorious - they had to win at last, the Lord was with
them, and the snake was bleeding with head trampled beneath their
heels.

This was about the meaning of the speech which the church elders of
the most intense attention with zuhorchenden Zacchaeus mulberry held, and
how this late in the evening, where the majority of stored here for the
rest go, his cart to his new protector heranschob, and then the loud-held
evening prayers fervently in with right mood, mind, seemed quite different
in the otherwise profane man driven to be rude. The others had long since
raised again, and he was still kneeling alone for a while in silent
prayer sunken, then lay down, wrapped in his blanket which he strapped
to the cart in front with the lead, without a word to someone with
any further change to to the place assigned to him under a vast canvas
tent, and soon was gentle and quiet - a bit loud snoring settled -
asleep.

The next morning sermons began very early, and Mulberry had now no time
to get to utilize his skill, even if he wanted it, he thought but did not
think was right from the morning in the front ranks of the faithful,
and seemed to really just happened to be at breakfast time on the
fire of the church elders einzufinden again.

This, however, had his deep pleasure to the man which, as he said not without reason, within and
without proper required a reorganization, and by the word of God
alone can only receive.

Incidentally, it was an encouraging sign among the Germans, not the
cry in other circumstances, to have much real religion, to find individuals
who made a notable exception to this. The breakfast was a pause,
as the priests themselves, their today's tough fight, a strengthening
needed, and it was mulberry a touching picture, and deep reflection,
to see source one, as in love and friendship so arguing, the reverend
gentlemen at their breakfast table, entertain to be allowed, the brothers,
where they then the best thing was aufgetafelt what kitchen of forest
and stream and farmyard only able to provide.

Immediately after breakfast sermon began the back up for lunch a little
refreshing about offered but, it was a mishmash of the most ordinary
phrases, in the most ordinary Art submitted, either, people could better
deliver anything, or they versparten to the full impression on the
afternoon and evening, and the audience at all more excited and the
supernatural are susceptible more. mulberry was nevertheless conscientiously;
Some of his neighbors and neighbors, also horribly in their devotion
by his old green and glazed like rock had been disturbed, and slept
softly, mulberry woke up and did not take his eyes from the speaker.

Lunch came, and so much the American people shy away from a filthy, had Beeres foot worship
but the attention of the women are particularly drawn, he was a stranger here, and could not be left
without food. Mulberry got three invitations to various fire, all
three took it, and with skillful Zeiteintheilung also utilized. After
lunch and a brief rest period, with the clock approached about three
in the afternoon, the sermon began anew on - but now with a different
spirit.

The Rev. Mr. Sweetlip made this afternoon the beginning, and the Assembly, as if people have
a idea would have had, as the Spirit would work today, was more numerous than ever; mulberry
sat in the front row. With a soft, melting voice began the venerable
Mr. Sweetlip his carefully listening audience the places earth to
describe this, where the poor weak man circumferential seduction,
the path of good entice him by, and in doing so he showed them the
wages they have in this world for a godly life, but also much larger
still in the world to expect to have another one: in this world by
her quiet, contented conscience that they chest with an infinite pleasure
and happiness fill the (and he himself led in this example for how
he, since he turned his heart to the heavens, a veritable sea of joy
in swimming), and in that God the Saviour them an enviable fate would
prepare and where, it sinful earthly pleasures widerstünden here,
her eyes following the directed only what would be God.

Here, too, he settled into a closer and more visual description of the former bliss, as he thought to
himself one, and described his audience with more fervent and vivid becoming colors, the paradise where
they forever and ever in a circle of angels in the clouds sit up and sing
Hallelujah would. mulberry looked quickly to his neighbor on Left to,
because they suddenly began to groan, shut his eyes, head threw back
and forth, and gebehrdete, about as if they fit of convulsions expected
one.

The scissors-grinder was also thinking of his little medicine chest it in the cart with it, led
to ammonia and Hofmann'sche drops rubbed on Senfspiritus and other horrible
means, but before he could get a right decision to began his neighbor
to the right also, sounds like utter and everywhere and behind him,
and right and left, it started to creak and groan, and the exclamation
- "Oh # Loooord - glory - glory - happy - happy - blessed Jesus!

#" on all sides were loud, and came in the form kind of force emitted sighs of days. Only until the
end of the sermon, which ended in a long prayer, the worshipers are calmed, and the women held
their handkerchiefs to her eyes and wept as if their greatest sorrow in the world that happen
and not the former happiness would be described.

Silent silence followed, as Mr. Hotte chunks climbed now, after the venerable brother Sweetlip
lowered into the pulpit, overlooked by one, over the masses wandering darkly menacing look, the Assembly, and
suddenly exclaimed, full upright and the right arm of with thundering voice: "Brothers and sisters -
fellow citizens - fellow Christians - sinner - worthless, miserable, wretched sinner - the day of vengeance
is at hand stretching!" Oh Loooooord, "cried the nun on a foot Beeres page who but now found
that these different exclamation not a physical infirmity, but rather a spiritual perfection,
the susceptibility of the heart for the higher, should be attributed.
Mr. Hotte chunks, however, had little break made one, as if listeners
time to give him his, this proclamation to reflect on, and began, after
he be taken out and handkerchief cautiously had blown before, with
a voice and an expression of his sermon, as if he in some indifferent
conversation could have said about - "I think we are getting rain
this afternoon."

The venerable Mr. Sweetlip, my dear brother, and hard-working employees in the vineyard of the Lord,
you, dear brothers and sisters, the pleasures of Elysium described, and he has you glowing with
vibrant colors, such as higher overheard the holy spheres, squares of the blessed demonstrated
that where the Good will come once. There is such a place, dear brothers and sisters, as I
hardly have to even tell you, for each of you know - it is clear with simple words in the Bible,
and therefore is not an art to know - each can know that can only read or friend has one, of
which he knows he does not tell him lies, and he reads the story.
 "I have squandered
your love, Alec, I have ruined my own life, I have devoted all these wretched years to a man
who is the worst sort of blackmailer,--a husband who trades on his wife's weakness."

She turned on Prince Michael with a last cry. "I am done with you now forever!" she sobbed.
"I have borne with you for my son's sake; but now you and I must dwell apart, for my very soul
loathes you!"

She sank into a chair in a passion of tears, and Alec bent over her. He spoke no word to her;
but his hand rested gently around her neck while his eyes traveled from Michael's gray-green
face to Julius Marulitch's white one.

"I think we have all heard sufficient of the Delgrado history to render unnecessary any further
comment on my decision to relinquish an honor that, it would appear, I had no right to accept,"
he said. "I have gained my end, though by a strange path. Will you please leave me with my mother?"

The one man present who felt completely out of his depth in this sea of discord took it upon
himself to cry pathetically:

"The door is locked, your--your Majesty!"

"Ah, forgive me, Monsieur Nesimir," said Alec, with a friendly smile. "I had forgotten that.
And, now that I come to think of it, I still have something to say; but we need not detain
my mother to hear an uninteresting conversation. Pardon me one moment, while I attend to her."

CHAPTER XIV

THE BROKEN TREATY

Alec unlocked the door. The laconic Bosko returned his all sufficing "Oui, monsieur," to the
request that he would bring Mademoiselle Joan's French maid to Princess Delgrado, since it
was in Alec's mind that Pauline might be discreet.

Prince Michael, Beliani, Marulitch, and Nesimir had already formed themselves into a whispering
group. Stampoff was seated apart, morose and thoughtful. The old man's elbows rested on his
knees and his chin was propped between his bony fists. Princess Delgrado had flung herself
forward on the table. Her face was hidden by her outstretched arms. This attitude of abandonment,
the clenched hands, the convulsive heaving of her shoulders, were eloquent of tempest tossed
emotions. She looked so forlorn that her son was tempted to return to her side without delay;
but instead he walked quietly toward the four men clustered in the center of the room. They
started apart and faced him nervously. It seemed that even yet they feared lest some uncontrolled
gust of anger might lead Alec to fling himself blindly upon them. Had they but known it, he
despised them too greatly to think of mauling them.

"Gentlemen," he said, "I have one small request to make. Give me your word of honor--I will
take it for what it is worth--that to-night's happenings shall remain unknown to the outer
world, and that there will be no interference with my mother or myself before we leave Delgratz."

Prince Michael, who had recovered some of his jauntiness, looked at Alec with the crafty eye
of a cowed hyena; but he said coolly, "There is nothing to be gained by publishing our blunders
to all the world."

"Have I your promise?" insisted Alec.

"Yes."

"And yours?" he said to Marulitch.

"Of course I agree," came the ready answer. "I, like Prince Michael, feel that it would be
folly----"

"Prince Michael!" snarled the royal Delgrado. "You must learn to school your tongue, Julius!
From this moment I am King of Kosnovia. Let there be no manner of doubt about that!"

Alec might not have heard the blusterer. His calm glance fell on Beliani. "And what say you?"
he asked.

"I agree most fully and unreservedly," murmured the Greek, conveying, with a deep bow, his
respectful regret that such an assurance should be necessary. The greatly perturbed President
had already quitted the room; so Alec turned to Stampoff. His manner was quite friendly. Well
he knew that this fiery soul was not to be judged by the Delgrado standard.

"I will not inflict on you, my trusty comrade," he said, "the indignity of a demand that I
felt was imperative in the case of some others present. Let us shake hands and think rather
of what we have gone through together when I was King and you were my most loyal supporter,
than of the poor climax to my brief reign that reveals me as an impostor."

Those keen eyes were raised in a half-formed resolution. "Is it too late, Alec?" he growled
sullenly.

"For what?"

Alec's smile of surprise was the only bit of affectation he had indulged in that night. The
fantasy flitting through Stampoff's brain was not hidden from him; but he wanted to dismiss
it lightly.

"God's bones! Need you ask? Say but the word, and you will be more firmly established on the
throne than ever. Trust me to find means to still those babbling tongues!" and Stampoff flung
out an arm in the direction of the uncle and nephew, each manifestly anxious to hurry away,
yet each so distrustful of the other that he dared not go.

"Paul, you are incorrigible," said Alec. "You ought to have been a marshal under Napoleon,
who would have had no scruples. No, you will not see civil war in the streets of Delgratz as
to whether a Delgrado or an American adventurer shall reign in Kosnovia. Yet, I thank you for
the thought. It shows that you, at least, do not rate me poorly, and it is not in my heart
to be vexed with you, though I owe this night's amazement to your striving."

"Be just, Alec!" whispered the Serb hoarsely. "Condemn me if you will; but be just! While Michael
Delgrado lived, your reign would never have been secure. I knew that all along. You will go
away now and marry the girl of your choice, and soon the memories of this downtrodden country
will be dim in your soul; but think what would have happened to you, to your wife, and perhaps
to your children, if Michael one day blurted out the truth in some fit of drunken rage, or
if Beliani and that other white faced hound obtained evidence of your birth. That is why I
was resolved to force you, if possible, to wed a Serbian Princess. Your marriage to a woman
of our own race would have borne down opposition. And now what will happen? The future is black.
Michael is unworthy to be a King; Marulitch, at the best, is a poor-spirited wretch; and after
them there is no Delgrado."

"Well, I am sorry, too, in a way," said Alec. "I was beginning to love these Kosnovian folk,
and I think I could have made something of them. Good-by, Paul. If we never meet again, at
least we part good friends."

Stampoff rose and silently wrung Alec's hand. He walked straight out of the room with bent
head and slow uncertain steps. For the hour his fierce spirit was chastened. He had done that
which he thought would make for good, and it had turned out ill. His single minded scheming
had gone awry. Another man in his position might have sought to curry favor with the new régime,
whether of Michael or Julius; but Stampoff was not of that mettle; he wanted Alec to be King,
because he believed in him, and now the edifice for which he had labored so ardently had tumbled
in pieces about his ears.

Pauline came, and Alec went to his mother. He took her tenderly in his arms.

"Come, dear!" he said. "Joan's maid will help you to reach your room. Our train leaves at midnight,
and Bosko and Pauline will give your maid any help she needs in collecting your belongings."

The Princess raised her grief stricken face to his, and it wrung his heart anew to see how
that night of misery had aged her.

"Oh, my son, my son!" she murmured. "Will you ever forgive me?"

He kissed her with a hearty and reassuring hug. "Forgive you, mother!" he cried. "It is not
I, but you, who have suffered through all these years. Have no fear for the future! Joan and
I will make you happy."

"But she, Alec! What will she say when she learns the wrong I have done you?"

"What! Afraid of Joan?" cried he cheerfully. "Why, you dear old mother, Joan is taking all
the blame on her own shoulders. You will find she agrees with me that you are the one to be
pitied. You made a mistake for which you have paid very dearly; but in no possible way can
it affect the remainder of our lives. There now, cheer up and prepare for your journey!"

The Princess left the room leaning on Pauline's arm, nor, in passing, did she bestow a glance
on her husband. Prince Michael indulged in an ostentatious shrug, and might have said something
had not Alec's gaze dwelt on him steadily. It is to be presumed that, not for the first time,
discretion conquered Michael's valor.

"A word with you, Beliani," said Alec, going to the table and unlocking the drawer from which
he had taken the money given to Sobieski. "You are now in charge of the State's finances, I
presume. I have here a sum, roughly speaking, of one thousand pounds. To some extent, it is
my own money; but the greater part consists of instalments of the salary of five thousand dollars
a year I allowed myself as King. Do you think I have earned it?"

The Greek could only mutter a surprised, "Yes. Who would deny your right to a far larger amount?"

"Having your sanction, then, I take it," said Alec coolly. "Here too is my passport, issued
in Paris, for which I believe I am indebted to you. It will now come in handy. May I ask in
whose charge I leave the books and papers on this table? Some of them may be of use to the State."

"I am afraid I cannot answer that question," muttered the Greek, with a stealthy glance in
the direction of the rival candidates.

"Well, settle it among yourselves," said Alec dryly. "Now I must be off."

Without another word he passed from the room that had witnessed his triumph and his fall. Yet
his face was remarkably cheerful when he asked an attendant if Lord Adalbert Beaumanoir's whereabouts
was known. The quiet elation in his manner led the man to believe that some specially pleasing
news had transpired during the conclave in the royal bureau.

It appeared that his Excellency, the English milord, had gone to the music hall in the Königstrasse
with a friend.

"Then send some one to say that he is wanted here at once," said Alec.

"Yes, your Majesty."

"Your Majesty!" How incongruous the two words sounded now in Alec's ears! By a trick of memory
his thoughts flew back to the Montmartre review wherein the stage prototypes of the Parisian
band of exiled monarchs addressed each other by high sounding titles and incidentally sought
to borrow five-franc pieces.

"If I possessed some literary skill, I could write a review that would set the world talking,"
he mused, smiling to himself as he ascended the stairs to his own suite.

"What is the matter, old chap?" demanded Beaumanoir, strolling into his friend's dressing room
a few minutes later. Lord Adalbert never hurried unless he was on horseback. He was in evening
dress, and an opera hat was set rakishly on the back of his head. He was smoking, his hands
were thrust into his pockets, and the mere sight of him served again to remind Alec of the
larger world in whose daily round Kosnovia and its troubles filled so insignificant a part.

In an oddly jubilant mood, Alec took a pencil and wrote in large characters on Beaumanoir's
immaculate shirt front, "Paris--with care."

His chum read. "The answer is?" he asked.

"We are leaving Delgratz to-night, Berty. That is all."

"You don't say!" He glanced down at the label. "Is this the address?"

"Yes."

Beaumanoir screwed his cigar firmly into the corner of his mouth. "I am pretty rapid myself,
Alec," he grinned; "but you are too sudden altogether. Tell me just what you mean, there's
a dear fellow."

"I take it you don't want to remain here without me, Berty," said Alec cheerily, "and I am
off. I chucked up my job half an hour ago. Joan and Felix started by the mail train that left
here at half-past five. We follow at midnight. My mother goes with us. As Bosko is giving her
maid a hand in the packing, I must look after my own traps. Nesimir's servants would talk,
which is just what I want to avoid. The two days in the train will give you plenty of time
to learn the harrowing details. I have a pretty story for you; but it must wait. I am not cracked,
nor sprung, nor trying to be funny; so you need not look at me in that way. I am out of business
as a King, for good and all, and the sooner I cross the frontier, the better it will be for
my health."

"Honor bright, Alec?"

"Every syllable. Now, get a hustle on!"

There was a tap at the door, and a servant entered with a note for the King. It was from Constantine
Beliani, and written in French.

     Prince Michael and Count Julius Marulitch have decided that, in the
     interests of the State, you ought to make a formal abdication of
     the throne, appointing the former as your successor, with special
     remainder to Count Julius.

     I agree with them that this offers the best way out of an
     unfortunate situation, and I would respectfully point out the
     urgency that is attached to the proposal if you still contemplate
     leaving Delgratz to-night.

Alec bent his brows over this curt missive, which was not couched precisely in the suave words
that might be expected from the Greek. Read between the lines, its meaning was significant.
Michael and his nephew, hungering for the spoils, had patched up a truce. They were already
contemplating another military pronunciamento, and Beliani, having made his own terms, was
lending his influence.

If their demands were refused, Alec might find himself a prisoner, and the country would be
plunged into a revolution. Under different conditions, he would gladly have measured his wits
and his popularity against the triumvirate. A call to arms would win him the support of the
great majority of the troops and of nearly all the younger officers. But a fight for a throne
to which he had no claim was not to be thought of; yet he was adamant in his resolve not to
advance the schemes of these rogues by any written statement.

He handed the note to Beaumanoir with a quiet laugh. "There you have the story in a nutshell,"
he said. "A few minutes ago I became aware that I am not Prince Michael's son. Although I strove
to act fairly, my worthy stepfather is not content. He thinks to force my hand, because he
fears the republican idea; but I may best him yet.

"Where is Monsieur Nesimir?" he said to the servant, to whom the English conversation was a
sealed book.

"In his apartments, I believe, your Majesty."

"Have instructions been given for mounted orderlies to be in readiness?"

"I heard his Excellency Prince Michael say something of the sort to the officer of the guard,
your Majesty."

The random shot had told. Alec felt that he was spinning a coin with fortune.

"That is right," he said coolly. "Give my compliments to Monsieur Beliani, and ask him to oblige
me by coming here for a moment; Prince Michael and Count Marulitch, too. Tell all three that
I am ready to attend at once to the matter mentioned in Monsieur Beliani's note."

The servant disappeared. Beaumanoir, who, of course, did not understand the instructions given
to the man, was fumigating Beliani's letter with rapid puffs of smoke, and incidentally scratching
the back of his right ear.

"Rum go this, Alec!" he began.

"Not a word now. You'll stand by me, Berty, I know. Go to my mother's suite and tell Bosko
I want him instantly. Bid him bring a brace of revolvers, and see that they are loaded. Come
here yourself with some ropes, leather straps, anything that will serve to truss a man securely,
as soon as you are sure that Michael, Julius, and the Greek are safely in the room."

Beaumanoir scented a row. Lest any words of his might stop it, he vanished. He must have hurried,
too, since Bosko had joined his master before Beliani's messenger reached the anxious conspirators
with Alec's answer. There was no need to ask if the Albanian had brought the weapons. They
were tucked ostentatiously in his belt. Alec looked him squarely in the eyes.

"I think I can depend on you, Bosko," said he.

"Oui, monsieur."

"Understand, then, that I am no longer King of Kosnovia. I am not Prince Michael's son. I mean
to leave Delgratz to-night, and there is a plot on foot to prevent my departure except on terms
to which I shall not agree. Will you help me to defeat it?"

"Oui, monsieur."

"Within the next minute I shall probably have visitors. They may show fight, though I doubt
it, I want you to place those two pistols among the clothes in that portmanteau, and be busy,
apparently, in arranging its contents. When I close the door, you must spring up and cover
them with both revolvers. Do not shoot without my command; but make it clear by your manner
that their lives are at your mercy. Will you do this?"

"Oui, monsieur," said Bosko.

"Here they are, then. Be ready!"

The door was ajar, and footsteps sounded on the stairs. Some one knocked.

"Come in," said Alec cordially.

Beliani was the first to enter. He pushed the door wide open to assure himself that he was
not walking into a trap. He saw Bosko on his knees, rummaging in a trunk, and Alec standing
in the middle of the room, lighting a cigarette.

"Come in," said Alec again. "My departure is rather hurried, as you know, and I have not a
minute to spare. Have you brought the necessary documents?"

"It is a simple matter," said the Greek, advancing confidently. "Half a sheet of notepaper
with your signature and our indorsement as witnesses will suffice."

Prince Michael and Julius, reassured by Alec's manner, and thanking the propitious stars that
had rendered unnecessary the dangerous step they were contemplating, entered the room with
as businesslike an air as they could assume at a crisis so fraught with import to their own future.

"We ought to be alone," said Beliani in English, with a wary glance at Bosko.

"Oh, for goodness' sake don't disturb my man! I have so little time and so much to do! Tell
me exactly what you want me to sign," and he strode to the door and closed it behind Marulitch.

The eyes of the three were on him and not on the harmless looking attendant. During those few
seconds they were completely deceived.

Prince Michael, finding the path so easy, took the lead. "Just a formal renunciation of the
crown," he said. "Give as your reason, if you choose, your inability to fall in with the expressed
desire of the Cabinet that you should marry a Serbian lady. It is essential that you should
name me----"

The door opened and Lord Adalbert Beaumanoir came in leisurely. He carried an assortment of
straps, rifled from leather trunks and hatboxes. He saw the three men facing Alec, and behind
them Bosko's leveled revolvers.

"Not a bally rope to be had, dear boy; but here's leather enough to go round," he grinned.
"By gad! what a tableau! I suppose you mean to gag 'em and then tie 'em back to back, eh, what?"

Alec picked up a chair. "Yes," he said. "Begin with his Excellency Prince Michael."

Julius Marulitch's right hand sought the pocket of the dinner jacket he was wearing.

"No, Julius," said Alec pleasantly, "move an inch and you are a dead man. Bosko has my orders,
and he will obey them. You may look at him if you doubt my word."

Marulitch's well poised head had never before turned so quickly; but he shrank from a wicked
looking muzzle pointed straight between his eyes. In such circumstances, the caliber of a revolver
seems to become magnified to absurdly large proportions, and behind the fearsome weapon Bosko's
immovable face was that of an automaton.

Beliani's olive complexion assumed a sickly green tint for the second time that evening. "I
was right," he muttered; "but you would not listen."

"It is a common delusion of the thief that an honest man has no brains," said Alec coolly.
"Now, Beaumanoir, get busy. Time is flying, and we have little more than an hour to spare."

Prince Michael, never noted for his courage, began to whimper some words of expostulation;
but Beaumanoir's strong hands soon silenced him with an improvised gag, for the effeminate
little rascal realized that his jaw might be broken if he resisted the stuffing of a towel
into his mouth. In a few minutes the three were seated on the floor, securely bound, and unable
to utter more than a gurgling cry, which would certainly not be heard by any one passing along
the outer corridor.

Alec's cheerful explanation of his action must have been particularly galling. "You will remain
here until such time as Stampoff decides that you may safely be set at liberty," he said. "Not
you, but he, must provide for the future good government in Kosnovia."

"Thanks, Beaumanoir," he added, turning from the discomfited trio with a carelessness that
showed they gave him no further concern. "Better be off now and get ready. Bosko, mount guard
outside the door! Allow no one to enter on any pretext whatsoever!"

Then he busied himself about the room, followed by vengeful eyes. He had brought little into
Kosnovia, and he took little away. The extraordinary simplicity of his life had rendered unnecessary
the usual trappings of a King. He had worn no uniform save the plainest of field service garments.
He possessed no State attire. His clothes were mostly those which came from Paris, and it amused
him now to change rapidly into the very suit in which he had entered Delgratz, an unknown claimant
of the Kosnovian throne. Bundling his trunks out into the corridor, he closed and locked the
door, and the click of the moving bolt must have sent a tremor through the stiff limbs of the
three worthies who lay huddled together inside.

Bidding Bosko hurry over his own preparations, he descended to the courtyard. A number of troopers,
standing by their horses' heads, sprang to attention when he appeared.

"You can dismiss your men," he said to the officer in charge. "They will not be needed to-night."

Then he told an attendant to order a couple of carriages for half-past eleven. In the reception
room he wrote a hasty note to Stampoff:

     MY DEAR PAUL:--The legitimate King of Kosnovia and his heir
     apparent, not contented with the arrangement entered into in your
     presence, planned with Beliani a coup d'état. I defeated it. You
     will find all three in my bedroom, the key of which I inclose. They
     are alive and well, and will stop there until it pleases you to
     release them. Perhaps you would like to consult with Sergius
     Nesimir, who by the time you receive this may have recovered the
     composure so rudely disturbed to-night. At any rate, the next move
     rests with you. Farewell and good luck.

          Yours,
               ALEC.

Outside his mother's apartments he came upon Prince Michael's valet in whispered consultation
with Pauline and Princess Delgrado's maid. In the rush of events he had forgotten the two domestics
from the Rue Boissière.

"His Excellency will not need your services to-night," he said to the man, "and it will meet
his wishes in every respect if nothing is said to the other servants as to the departure of
the Princess for Paris."

"Precisely, your Majesty," smirked the Frenchman.

"You, of course," he went on, addressing the maid, "will accompany your mistress."

"Yes, your Majesty," she said, quite reassured by Alec's matter of fact manner.

A glance at Pauline's honest face showed that nothing had been said of the curious scene witnessed
in the bureau. To a certain extent, Joan's humble friend shared his confidence, and it was
evident that she had not betrayed it.

The departure of such a large party probably created some speculation among the palace servants;
but Nesimir did not put in an appearance, and no one dared to question the King's movements.
Alec had purposely allowed the barest time for the drive to the station. The midnight train,
not being an important express, carried few passengers, mostly traders returning to neighboring
towns in Austria after conducting the day's business in Delgratz. The King and his companions,
of course, were recognized; but again it was not to be expected that any official would trouble
them with inquiries.

Having secured a compartment for his mother and Beaumanoir, Alec made for the station master's
office, meaning to obtain a messenger who might be trusted to deliver Stampoff's letter, and
he happened to notice a policeman standing near a carriage door.

A white face peered out through the window. It was Sobieski. The King and the waiter were quitting
Delgratz by the same train!

Alec laughed, and the policeman saluted. "When the train has gone," said Alec, "I want you
to deliver this letter to General Stampoff."

"Yes, your Majesty," replied the man.

"It is important, remember. Here are ten rubles, and ask General Stampoff, with my compliments,
for the like amount. Take no denial from his servants. If he is in bed, he must be awaked.
Say that I sent you, and there should be no difficulty."

Precisely at midnight the train started. Quickly gathering speed, it ran through the tumbledown
suburbs of the city and rumbled across the iron bridge that spans the Tave River. In twenty
minutes it was at Semlin, and Austrian officials were examining passports. It was almost ludicrous
to find that they gave Alec and his mother a perfunctory glance; but Lord Adalbert Beaumanoir
excited their lively suspicion. One man, in particular, mounted guard outside the carriage,
and did not budge till the train moved on again.

"That chap remembers me," said Beaumanoir. "Did you notice how he glared? He was the johnny
I slung through the window."

At an early hour in the morning Joan was peering disconsolately through the window of a railway
carriage at the life and bustle of Budapest station. Felix had gone to purchase some newspapers,
and the girl was absorbed in gray thought when an official thrust head and shoulders into the
compartment and asked if the Fräulein Vernon, passenger from Delgratz to Paris, was within. 

The Dionysian art does to us the eternal pleasure of being sure of:
not only should we desire them to the phenomena, but behind appearances
are looking at.

We will see how everything is created, the painful destruction must be ready, we are forced the
horror of individual existence hineinzublicken in - and should not freeze yet: a metaphysical
consolation tears us momentarily to the gear change shapes out. We are really in short moments, the
first principle itself and feel its unbridled Daseinsgier and life
pleasure; the struggle, the torment that destruction of the phenomena
seems to us now, as necessary, with the excess of countless themselves
into life pressing and abutting forms of existence, in the exuberant
fertility of the world will, we are of the furious sting that torments
the same moment pierced in where we were, the immeasurable with Urlust
of existence become one and where we indestructibility and eternity
of this joy in Dionysian ecstasy guess the.

In spite of fear and pity, we are the happy-living, not as individuals, but as a living, with its conception
pleasure we have merged. The history of the Greek tragedy tells us now
with lucid precision, as the tragic art of the Greeks the spirit of
music is born out of real: by what we thought the original and so
amazing sense of the chorus just become to believe to be the first
time. At the same time we must admit that the previously established importance
of the tragic myth of the Greek poets, let alone the Greek philosophers,
never in conceptual clarity has become transparent, and their heroes
speak more superficial than they act a certain extent, the myth is
the spoken word not at work fine Objectivation.

The microstructures the scenes and the vivid images reveal a deeper wisdom than the poet in
words and concepts can take themselves: as the same is observed also
in Shakespeare, whose Hamlet, for example, in a similar sense superficial
speaks as he acts, so not from the words but from the in-depth view
and grasp of the whole, those previously mentioned Hamlet doctrine,
see out is.

     
     In regard to the Greek tragedy, which of course only as a word drama
     confronts us, I have even suggested that those incongruity between
     myth and word easily could entice us to she and meaningless to
     hold for flat, as it is, and therefore also a superficial effect for
     them to assume as they testimony of the ancients have had the to
be: for how easily forget that what failed word poet was the one the
highest spirituality and idealism to reach the myth, his musicians
at every moment succeed was more creative than we of course we have
to the superiority of the musical effect almost scholarly way reconstruct
on to something incomparable comfort to receive from that which the
true tragedy in any way be .

          
These straws showed how the wind blew, he fancied.

And it was good to see the way Joan's face kindled when Alec clasped her in his arms. They
said little then. The why and the wherefore of events they left to another hour; but when Joan
extricated herself from her lover's embrace she turned to Princess Delgrado. The two women
exchanged an affectionate kiss; each looked at the other through a mist of tears. Words were
not needed. They understood, and that sufficed.

In a calmer moment Alec told Joan what had happened. He laid special stress on the fact that
his mother was quite determined to renounce her title and revert to the name she bore during
her first marriage.

"I never realized the tenth part of her suffering in Paris," he said, "though I knew far more
about Prince Michael's conduct than he guessed. We must make it our business, Joan, to bring
some brightness into her declining years. I have been planning our future all day in the train.
Shall I become the fortune teller this time?"

"Yes," she murmured, "and perhaps I may forget that I have cost you a Kingdom."

He laughed gayly, just as he used to laugh on those bright May mornings when he waited on the
Pont Neuf in the hope that he might be permitted to escort her to the Louvre.

"Never dream that I shall bring that up against you, dear heart," he said. "Delgratz ought
to advertise itself as a sure cure for ambition. I liked the people; but I hated the job, and
Kosnovia is already becoming a myth in my mind. I am rejoicing in my new name, Alexander Talbot.
I hope you like it. My mother tells me that my father was one of the strong men of the West.
I am called after him, it seems, and although my own name sounds strange to me I like the purposeful
ring in it."

Joan laughed merrily. "Felix was teasing me this morning by suggesting that you might have
been christened Phineas," she said.

"The wretch! And what if I was?"

She looked at him with a delightful shyness. "No matter what name you bore, you would always
be my Alec," she whispered.

They were leaning over the balcony of an open air restaurant at the moment; so Alec perforce
contented himself with clasping her hand.

"And now for my scheme, little girl," he said. "We will get married at once, of course."

She made no reply; but he felt the thrill that ran through her veins.

"Then," he went on, so gravely that she raised her eyes to his, seeking to catch his slightest
shade of meaning; for her heart was still troubled by the fear that she had wrought him evil,
"I will take you to America, my home. There is surely a nest for us out there. I have never
understood it before; but often, as a boy, I felt the call of the West. It was natural, I suppose.
We had many American friends in Paris, and my blood tingled when they spoke of the great rivers,
the prairies, the ocean lakes, the giant mountain ranges, and the far flung plains of that
wondrous continent which they describe with a reverent humor as God's own country. I feel that
I shall win a place for myself in the land of my birth, and my poor mother is aching to go
back there again."

He paused, and perhaps he hardly realized why Joan sighed with happiness; for she could believe,
at last, that he had never a pang for his lost kingship.

"It is my home, too, Alec," she cooed. "I was born in Vermont. We are going home together."

"Yes, dear, no more partings. We shall not be wealthy, Joan. It seems that the miserable little
humbug whom I have regarded as my father has wasted the whole of my mother's fortune by his
extravagance. The only scrap left is a small farm near Denver, and even that would have been
sold had not the crisis in Delgratz offered a wider scope for Michael's plundering instincts.
It is a strange thing, sweetheart, but on the day we parted in Paris--the day the news came
of the murder of Theodore and his wife--Prince Michael quarreled with my mother because she
refused to sanction the sale of that last shred of her inheritance. In order to vent his spite,
he had actually decided to tell me the secret of my birth in the very hour that Julius Marulitch
announced the disappearance of the Obrenovitch dynasty."

"And the goddess sent you east instead of west," she said softly.

"Yes, my trial has been short and sharp; but she must have found me worthy, since she has given
me--you."

They reached Paris next evening; but by that time the newspapers were hot on the scent of the
missing King. So far as could be judged from the reports telegraphed by French correspondents
in Delgratz, Stampoff had remained true to his dream of a monarchy. For lack of a better, Michael
was King. Some one, Beliani probably, had issued a statement that the infatuation of Alexis
III. for a pretty Parisian artist had led him to abdicate, and as soon as it was discovered
that the Delgrado flat in the Rue Boissière was again occupied by Alec and his mother, they
were besieged by reporters anxious to glean details of a royal romance.

They decided, therefore, to leave Paris for London, where, under the name of Talbot, they might
hope to escape such unwelcome attentions. It was no easy matter to shake off the horde of eager
pressmen; but they succeeded at last, and when Alec and Joan were quietly married in a West
End church, no one, except the officiating minister, had the least knowledge of their identity. 

Who touch of that divine simplicity and safety of the Socratic life direction from the Platonic writings
felt was a just that feels and how immense drive wheel of the logical Socratism were, behind
Socrates is in motion, and how this is like a shadow pass looked to be Socrates by needs. That
he even had an inkling of this relation, however, which expresses itself in the manors of seriousness
with which his Divine calling and even before his judges claim made anywhere.
 Without consulting any one the two got married, and astounded Mrs.
Talbot one fine morning by announcing the fact.

At the last moment Joan almost persuaded Felix to go with her and her husband; but he tore
himself away.

"I peeped into the Grande Galerie the other morning," he said, with a real sob in his voice,
"and my poor Madonna looked so lonely! There was no one with her; just a few painted angels
and a couple of gaping tourists. I must go back. Some day you will come to the Louvre, and
you will find me there, le pauvre Bourdon, still singing and painting."

He began to hum furiously. When the gangway was lowered, and the great ship sidled slowly but
relentlessly away from the quay, he struck the tremendous opening note of "Ernani."

Beaumanoir grabbed him by the collar. "Shut up, you idiot!" he said, not smiling at all, for
he loved Alec. "This is England. If you sing here, a bobby will run you in. An', anyhow, blank
it! why do you want to sing? This isn't a smoking concert. It's more like a bally funeral!"

CHAPTER XV

THE ENVOY

In the autumn of the following year, Joan was seated one day in the garden of her pretty suburban
house at Denver. Not far away glittered a silvery lake; beyond a densely wooded plain rose
the blue amphitheater of the Rocky Mountains; the distant clang of a gong told of street cars
and the busy life of one of America's most thriving and picturesque cities.

She was somewhat more fragile than when she crossed the Pont Neuf on that fine morning in May
eighteen months ago; but she looked and felt supremely happy, for Alec would soon be home from
his office, where already he was proving that the qualities which made him a good King were
now in a fair way toward establishing his position as a leading citizen of his native State.
By her side in a dainty cot reposed another Alec, whose age might not yet be measured by many
weeks, but whose size and lustiness proclaimed him--in his own special circle, at any rate--the
most remarkable baby that ever "occurred" in Colorado.

Mrs. Talbot, Senior, tired of reading, was now dozing peacefully in an easy chair on the other
side of the cot. The day had been warm; but the evening air brought with it the crisp touch
of autumn, and Joan was about to summon Pauline, who--with honorable mention of the unchanging
Bosko--had solved for the young couple the most perplexing problem of American life,--when
the click of the garden gate caught her ear and she heard her husband's firm step. He stooped
and kissed her.

"I hope you have passed the whole day in the garden, sweetheart," he said.

"Yes," she replied, "I was just going to send baby indoors. Will you tell Pauline it is time
he was in bed; but do not disturb your mother. She's asleep."

"Baby can wait one minute," he said. "He looks quite contented where he is. There is news from
Delgratz," he added in a lower voice. "King Michael is dead."

An expression of real sympathy swept across Joan's beautiful face. "I am sorry to hear that,"
she said. Then, with the innate desire of every high-minded woman to find good where there
seems to be naught but evil, she added, "Perhaps, when he reached the throne, he may have mended
his ways and striven to be a better man. Did he die suddenly?"

"Yes," and a curious inflection in Alec's voice caused his wife to glance anxiously toward
the sleeping woman.

"Was there a tragedy?" she whispered.

"Something of the sort. The details are hardly known yet, and the telegrams published in our
Denver newspapers are not quite explicit. There is an allusion to a disturbance in a local
theater, during which the heir apparent, Count Julius Marulitch, was fatally stabbed."

"Oh!" gasped Joan.

"It would seem that this incident took place several days ago, but escaped notice in the American
press at the time. Attention is drawn to it now by the fact that King Michael was found dead
in his apartments at an early hour yesterday morning, and it is rumored that he was poisoned."

"How dreadful!" she gasped. "It will shock your mother terribly when she hears of it."

"It is an odd feature of the affair," went on Alec, "that the telegram describes the King as
residing in the New Konak. I suppose he passed the summer months there, and had not yet returned
to Delgratz. Delightful as the place was, I am glad now we never lived there, Joan."

She rose and caught him by the arm. "Alec," she murmured, "Heaven was very good to us in sending
us away from that Inferno! You never regret those days, do you? You never think, deep down
in your heart, that if it had not been for me you would still be a King?"

He laughed so cheerfully that the sound of his mirth woke both his mother and the baby.

"What is it?" asked Mrs. Talbot, scanning the faces of her son and his wife with a whole world
of affection in her kindly eyes.

"Well, nothing to laugh about, mother," said he, "since I was just telling Joan that the end
has come for some one in Kosnovia; but----"

"Is Michael dead?" interrupted his mother, paling a little.

"Yes, mother, he is."

She bent her head in brief reverie, and when she looked up again she seemed to be gazing at
the smiling landscape. But they knew better. Her thoughts had flown many a mile from Colorado.

"May Heaven be more merciful to him than he was to me!" she said at last, and that was her
requiem for the man to whom she had given her best days. She forgave him; but she could not
find it in her heart to regret his loss.

When the New York papers reached Denver, the small household--whose interest in the affairs
of far off Kosnovia was little dreamed of by their neighbors--gleaned fuller details of the
tragedy that had again overwhelmed the Delgrados. Many times did the conversation turn to the
tiny Kingdom with which their own lives had been so intimately bound up. So far as the American
press was concerned, the topic was soon forgotten; but Alec, having obtained a Budapest journal,
found that Stampoff, Beliani, and Sergius Nesimir were taking steps to form a Republic.

"Sometimes," said Alec during their talk that evening, "it is the expected that happens."

"I suppose," said Joan musingly, "that the unlucky little Principality ought to prosper under
a popular Government--unless----" She paused, and her husband was quick to interpret her thought.

"Unless they obtain the right sort of King," he cried.

"Perhaps that is impossible since you are here, dear," she said softly.

"Is that bee still buzzing in your bonnet?" he laughed. "I agree with you, Joan; it was a pity
I let go so promptly."

She lifted her startled eyes to his. "Oh, Alec!" she cried, "you don't mean it!"

"I do, sweetheart," he said with a marked seriousness that puzzled her. "It was sheer selfishness
that drove me from Kosnovia. I honestly believe I should have cracked up under the weight of
empire; but just fancy what a wonderful Queen you would have made!"

"Oh, don't be stupid," she cried. "You almost frightened me."

Alec's mother put in a gentle word. "If ever either of you is tempted to regret the loss of
a throne, you ought to devote half an hour to reading the history of Kosnovia," she said. "You
are happy, and that is what you would never have been in the Balkans. A curse rests on that
unlucky land. Never a Delgrado or Obrenovitch has reigned a decade in peace and security. It
was a red letter day for Alec when you brought him away from Delgratz, my dear," she continued,
with a fond pressure of her hand on Joan's brown hair. She lost both her parents early on and were
without relatives in the world. The Captain Stammvorfahr, a Frenchman, was Germany moved to order, a
Rhinelander to follow wife of his, and Butin, when in living memory
in the German districts also established originated, also of French
blood.

Just when Clairefort to a secluded, very young baroness by Butin stopped, died her former guardian, and
this prompted the later coming of age to sell the landowner, the revenue they brought her husband
as dowry. Claire forts had visits made her, and received such.

It was for one she very much that she visits her not to the more
distinguished and limited inner circle, in which families frequented
the other, they gave their cards in the prestigious inhabitants of
the city also, and delighted by her charm the world with which they
came into contact. particularly lively but developed the traffic between
the unmarried officers of the garrison and the new arrivals.

After a few weeks had this almost daily guests of the villa, in the breakfast
table is always ready to stand in one and the best - and unannounced - always
an excellent board with excellent wines found. It took place there,
like magic, everything created by, and yet it was the worst possible
Ange housewife.

But seriously Tibet, the valet took care of everything. This steward
was a model man.

In his restless and rather unwise, so much alive and the Countess, as serious, thoughtful and reliable
Tibet was, a man of innate dignity and polite civility at the same time. "Tibet, best, golden Tibet,
what do we begin? Just ten persons have declared! The clock is two! At five, we want to eat! ""
Everything will be according to your wishes, my lady, "replied, Tibet,
and bows to go work for him.

And if Tibet says that, you can probably fall a little world, but if it does not collapse , is all
to the minute, as he promised. Strangely, even the Count is not troubled about the house, a little
also about the children, nor with his beautiful eye. We often wondered
what it actually occupied, for which he was interested in, behind
his high forehead and moving like that idea.

No one was able to an appropriate answer to give. He remained out of his official employment
nor much time, but was found it does not often read nor write.

He usually sat leaning back in an old Erbstuhl of the fifteenth century, his desk stood before,
dusted books and the many little trinkets objects from which, smoked,
got up well once picked, as a pain Ban, on his head and looked in
the flower garden and thought more about something that no one could
fathom.

Tibet was an hour every day, often longer with him. He submitted invoices, fetched instructions, received
money, brought such, probably had to write letters, telegrams and
arrange courses, make concerning the information he had before.

"Tibet was all in all, even in the count, and no one encountered this so politely as his valet, even
though he him to the forms aside let. Among the officers, Claire fort's house frequented the, Captain
was one of the names of Teut Everyone was amazed that the family
market averse to all that only to his service, the Horseback riding,
hunting and feasting strong tilted far more young men had visited
the house of the Count.

Ange was the disposition was.

At a dinner, which gave the Colonel, she forced him to deal with it, pointed to him jokingly,
that she by her great-grandfather had a little used, and bound him
to such an extent that when he way home to his surroundings in the
words broke out: "As beautiful as a rose, smart as a horse, like a
naive child, also a lady - a perfect creature!"

From Teut was a strange, unpredictable man in traffic, but after unanimous opinion a gentleman from
head to toe. His wealth allowed him to exercise the most expensive hobbies.
 Through the peaceful air of that quiet Denver suburb he caught the sound of cheering
crowds, the crashing of bells, the booming of cannon, that would welcome his return.

But he thought, too, of the fret and fume of Kingship, of the brave men and gracious women
who had occupied an unstable throne and were now crumbling to dust in the vaults of that gloomy
cathedral. He smiled tenderly at his wife, and his hand stole out to meet hers.

"I refuse, Felix!" he said quietly.

Poluski's piercing gray eyes peered at him under the shaggy eyebrows. "Is that final?"

"Absolutely final!"

Felix broke into a hearty laugh. "I warned Beliani," he chuckled. "No one could have written
to me as Joan has done and yet want to return to that whited sepulcher down there in the Balkans.
Well, here are my credentials," and he threw a bundle of papers on the table. "I have done
what I was asked to do, and thus earned my passage money; and now, when I have kissed the baby
and shaken hands all round, I will bring in my wedding present."

A minute later he danced out into the hall and returned with a huge roll of canvas. "I unpacked
it at the station," he said; "so it is ready for inspection," and he spread out on the table
a replica of the famous Murillo. "There," he cried, "since Joan would not come to the Louvre,
I am bringing the Louvre's chief treasure to her. As it is the last, so is it the best of my
copies. My hand was losing its cunning, I felt myself growing old, so I prayed to that sweet
Madonna to give me one last flicker of the immortal fire ere it left me a dry cinder. Well,
she listened, I think. Ave Maria! the great Spaniard himself would rub his eyes if he could
see this. Now, I shall go back contented, and dream of the days that are gone."

His voice broke. He was gazing at Joan, at the glory of maternity in her face. 

"Titan detention" and "barbaric" seems to the Apollonian Greeks the effect that the Dionysian excited: can
conceal himself without that same time he also internally with those
deposed Titans and heroes, but even used it.


So Denver heard wild snatches of song, and listened, and marveled, and a baby cultivated a
strange taste in lullabies, and Pallas Athene forgot that one of her chosen sons dwelt in Colorado,
or, if she remembered, her heart was softened and she forbore.

     THE END

1.