WE TEN

Or

The Story of the Roses

by

BARBARA YECHTON

Author of "Ingleside," "A Matter of Honor," "Gentle-Heart Stories," "Two Knights-Errant," "Little
Saint Hilary," "Christine's Inspiration"

"Thou hast done well thy part, if
    Thou hast done thy best;
  As sure as I am God, I answer
    For the rest."

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER                                   PAGE

     I. ROSES AND ROSES                      1

    II. IN THE STUDY                        17

   III. CONCERNING A PERFORMANCE            25

    IV. AND A FETICH                        43

     V. A FRACAS AND AN ARRIVAL             53

    VI. DISPOSING OF A FETICH               72

   VII. NEW FRIENDS                         92

  VIII. A RESOLUTION                       109

    IX. MAX'S WARD                         123

     X. IN THE SCHOOLROOM                  145

    XI. AN AFTERNOON RECEPTION             165

   XII. IN THE SHADOW                      182

  XIII. THROUGH THE SHADOW                 200

   XIV. A MISSION OF THREE                 213

    XV. SOME MINORS                        230

   XVI. AND A MAJOR                        254

  XVII. NORA'S SECRET                      274

 XVIII. EXPERIENCES AT ENDICOTT BEACH      283

   XIX. HIS BROTHER'S KEEPER               322

   XX. A SOLEMN PROMISE                    346

  XXI. THROUGH THE SLOUGH OF DESPOND       367

 XXII. AUF WIEDERSEHEN                     378

WE TEN, OR THE STORY OF THE ROSES.

I.

ROSES AND ROSES.

TOLD BY JACK.

When papa said positively that only Phil could go to college, we all felt so badly for Felix
that we held a council in the schoolroom that very afternoon. At least, six of us did; the
other four had been ruled out by Felix, who declared that "kids were not allowed in council."
Paul and Mädel didn't mind so much,--they're the twins, they're only seven years old; nor did
Alan,--he's the baby; but Kathie was awfully mad: you see, she's nearly ten, and she does love
to hear all that's going on. When she gets crying, there's no stopping her, and I tell you
she made things pretty lively round that schoolroom for a little while. How she did howl! We
were so afraid she'd start Alan, and that the noise would reach papa's study; good-bye then
to our council. We got provoked with Kathie; it was so silly of her to stand there crying like
a big baby, and keeping us back that way.

First Phil called out, "You just stop, this minute, Kathie!" and then, when she kept right
on, he threw the old sofa pillow at her, and told her to go smother herself; Nora said, "Horrid
child!" in her most disgusted tone, and Nannie and Betty coaxed and coaxed, trying to quiet her.

But nothing had any effect until Felix limped over to his easel. Felix is lame,--dear old Fee!--but
my! isn't he clever! Greek and Latin are just as easy as--as--anything to him, and he writes
stories and poems,--though nobody knows this 'cept us children and Miss Marston, and we wouldn't
tell for the world,--and he paints the most beautiful pictures you ever saw. Well, as I was
telling you, he limped over to his easel, and took up his brush. "Just keep that charming expression
on your face a few minutes longer, Kathie," he said, "until I get it on canvas; and I'll paint
your picture as the 'Schoolroom Vixen,' and send it to the Academy. That's right, open your
mouth just a little wider--what a wonderful cavern!--hullo! why'd you stop crying? I'm not
half through."

That quieted my lady! You see she was afraid he was in earnest; and after Nannie had wiped
her eyes for her, and given her the last piece of chocolate in her box, off she went to the
other end of the room, and began playing house with the twins and Alan under the schoolroom
table, as nicely as you please.

Then the council began. Nannie said it was called to discuss "ways and means." I suppose by
that she meant to see if there was any way that Felix could go to college too; but, as usual,
in a very little while everybody began to take "sides," and then, the first thing we knew,
we were all talking at the same time, and just as loud as ever we could. That's a way we have,--all
talking and nobody listening. What a din there was, until Felix scrambled up on a chair and
pounded on the floor with his cane, and shouted out louder than anybody else: "Who am I talking
to? I will be heard!" That made everybody laugh, and brought us back to business; but in a
few minutes we were just as bad again.

We're the greatest family for taking sides that you ever heard of, and we do get so excited
over things! Anybody that didn't know would surely think we were quarrelling, when really we'd
just be having a discussion. I can't see where we got it from, for dear mamma was always just
as sweet and gentle, and goodness knows papa doesn't say ten words in a day, and those in the
very quietest voice. I can't explain it, but it's a fact all the same that we are a noisy family,--even
Nora. Miss Marston--she's our governess--says it's very vulgar to be noisy, and that we ought
to be ashamed to be so boisterous; but nurse declares--and I think she's right--that the reason
is 'cause "the whole kit an' crew" (she means us) "come just like steps, one after the other,
an' one ain't got any more right to rule than the other." You see Phil is seventeen and Alan
is five, and between them we eight come in; so we are "just like steps," as she says.

Perhaps I'd better tell you a little about each of us, so you'll understand as I go on: Well,
to begin, Phil is a big strong fellow, and just as full of fun and mischief as he can stick;
he just loves to play practical jokes, but he isn't so fond of study, I can tell you, and that
vexes papa, 'cause he's got it all laid out that Phil's to be a lawyer. Being the eldest, he
seems to think he can order us children round as he pleases, and of course we won't stand it,
and that makes trouble sometimes. But Phil's generous; he'd give us anything he's got, particularly
to Felix, he thinks so much of him,--though of course he wouldn't say so,--so we get along
pretty well with him.

Next come Felix and Nannie; they're twins too. I've told you 'most everything about Fee already.
He's awfully cross sometimes, when he isn't well, and, as Nora says, he really orders us about
more than Phil does; but somehow we don't mind it, 'cause, with all his queerness, he's the
life of the house, and he's got some ways that just make us love him dearly: mamma used to
call him her "lovable crank." Nannie is devoted to Felix; they're always together. They're
trying to teach themselves the violin, and she reads the same books and studies the same lessons
as he does, to keep up with him; she's clever, too, now I tell you,--- I'd never get my Greek
and Latin perfect if she didn't help me,--though she doesn't make any fuss over it. Nannie
is an awfully nice girl,--I don't know what we'd do without her; since mamma died, she's all
the time looking after us children, and making things go smoothly. She doesn't "boss" us a
bit, and yet, somehow, she gets us to do lots of things. She is real pretty, too,--her eyes
are so brown and shiny. It's queer, but we don't any of us mind telling Nannie when we get
into scrapes; she talks to us at the time, and makes us feel sorry and ashamed, but she never
makes us feel small while she's doing it, and we never hear of it again.

But you wouldn't catch us doing that to Nora! She comes next, you know, and she's really very
pretty, though we never tell her so, 'cause she's so stuck up already. Felix puts her into
lots of his pictures, and I heard Max Derwent say once that she was beautiful. Max is papa's
friend; he is a grown-up man, though he isn't as old as papa. He used to come here a lot, and
we children like him first-rate; but now he's in Europe. Well, to come back to Nora: she likes
to be called Eleanor, but we don't do it; she is so fussy and so very proper that Felix has
nick-named her Miss Prim, and we do call her that. Miss Marston thinks Nora is the best behaved
of us all; and sometimes, when Nannie is in papa's study, she lets her go in the drawing-room
and entertain people that call. You should see the airs that Nora puts on when she comes upstairs
after these occasions; it's too killing for anything! We boys make lots of fun of her, but
she doesn't care a jot. And yet, isn't it queer! with all her primness and fine airs, of us
all, Nora cares most for Phil, and he's so untidy and rough; she almost runs her legs off waiting
on him, and half the time he doesn't even say thank you!

The next after Nora is Betty, our "long-legged tomboy," as Felix calls her, 'cause she is so
tall and so full of mischief. Just to look at her you'd think she was as mild as a lamb; but
in reality she's wilder than all of us boys put together. I've seen her slide down the banisters
of three flights of stairs, one flight after the other, balancing papa's breakfast tray on
one palm; and for warwhoops and the ability to make the most hideous faces, she goes ahead
of anything I've ever heard or seen. She is as bad as Phil for playing jokes, and when she
gets in one of her wild moods, the only way Miss Marston can manage her is to threaten to take
her to papa's study; that brings her to terms every time. For that matter, we none of us like
to go there, though I'm sure papa never scolds, as some people's fathers do,--I almost wish
he would sometimes; he just looks at us; but, all the same, we don't like to go to the study.

I hope you won't think from what I've said that Betty is a disagreeable girl, for she isn't
at all; I'm really very fond of her, and we're together a great deal, because I am the next
in age to her. She's awfully quick-tempered, and flies into a rage for almost nothing; but
she's very honest, and she'll own up to a fault like a soldier. Once in a while we have a falling
out, but not often, 'cause I won't quarrel. Nannie says that I give in sometimes when I oughtn't
to,--she means when it isn't right to; I guess that's my fault, but I do hate to squabble with
any one,--it's such a bother. I don't know what to tell you about myself, except that I'm not
very bright at my books, though I love to read stories. It does seem so strange that we shouldn't
all be smart, when papa, as everybody knows, is such a wonderfully clever man. I'm Jack, or,
rather,--to give my full name,--John Minot Rose. I think that's rather a nice name, but you
can't think what fun the whole family make of it; they call me "a Jack rose," and "Jacqueminot,"
and "Rosebud," and a "sweet-scented flower," and all sorts of absurd names. Of course it's
very silly of them. Betty gets furious over it; but I don't really care, so what's the use
of being angry.

Kathie comes next to me; she is a nice little girl, only she does love to tattle things, and
that makes trouble sometimes. She's very gentle, and just as pretty as a picture, with her
long light curls and pretty, big blue eyes; but my! isn't she obstinate! She doesn't fly into
rages, like Betty, but she keeps persisting and persisting till she carries her point, and
when she once starts in crying, you may make up your mind she isn't going to stop in a hurry.
But she doesn't mean to be naughty, I'm sure; and she's the most polite child, and so willing
to do things for people!

Then come the other twins, Paul and Mädel. Paul is a standing joke with us, he's so solemn;
and yet he says such bright, funny things, in his slow way, that we have to laugh: we call
him the "Judge." Mädel is a little darling, just as jolly and round and sweet as she can be;
nurse says she's going to be a second Nannie. We all make a great deal of her,--much more than
we do of Alan; for though he's the baby, he's so independent that he doesn't like to be petted.

So now you know all about the Roses; it does seem as if I'd been a long time telling about
them, but you see there are such a lot of us.

Well, to go back to the council. Fee was awfully cut up over his disappointment, and cranky
too; but nobody minded what he said, until, all at once, Nora got in a tantrum, and declared
he was "acting very mean to Phil," that he needn't always expect to have things his own way,
and that papa was perfectly right to give Phil the first chance. That set Fee off, and in about
two minutes we were all mixed up in the fuss,--taking "sides," you know; that is, all but Phil,--he
just sat hunched up on the arm of the old sofa, swinging one of his long legs, and scowling,
and chewing away on a piece of straw he'd pulled out of the whisk-broom, and he didn't say
a word until Nora turned on him, and asked him, very indignantly, how he could sit there and
let Felix bully her in that way. Then all at once he seemed to get very mad and just pitched
into Fee.

I don't remember what he said, and I'm glad that I don't, 'cause I know Phil didn't mean a
word of it; but Felix felt awfully hurt. He got two bright red spots on his cheeks, and he
set his lips tight together, and when Phil stopped to catch his breath, after an unusually
long speech, he got up and pushed his chair back. "It is so pleasant to hear one's family's
honest opinion of one's self," he remarked, in that sarcastic way he has. "I shall try to remember
all that you've said," bowing to Phil and Nora, "and I shall endeavour to profit by it. And
as long as I'm such a contemptible and useless member of the community, I'll relieve you of
my company." His voice shook so he could hardly say the last words, and he started for the
door, stumbling over the furniture as he went. Between you and me, I think his eyes were full
of tears, and that they blurred his glasses so he couldn't see,--did I tell you that Felix
is near-sighted? Well, he is.

"Oh, Phil, how could you say such mean things to your own brother!" cried out Nannie; and with
that she flew after Felix.

That cooled Phil down, and if he didn't turn on Nora! "It's all your fault," he said angrily;
"you just nagged me on to it. You're never happy unless you're quarrelling."

This was pretty true, but I don't think it was at all nice of Phil to say so, and I felt very
sorry for Nonie when she burst out crying. Betty and I were trying to quiet her, when in walked
Miss Marston, to know what all that loud noise and banging of doors meant. We didn't tell her
about the fracas, 'cause, though she's pretty good in a way, she isn't at all the person one
would want to tell things to. She carried the little ones off for their early dinner, and Nora
and Betty too,--"to help," she said. But I stayed in the schoolroom. I knew if I went down
stairs they'd just keep me trotting about waiting on them all, and that's such a nuisance!
so I curled up on the sofa and read for a while.

The fire was so bright, and everything was so cozy, that I did wish some of the others would
come in and enjoy it. I was really pleased when Major and Whiskers came walking in and settled
down near me. They're our dog and cat, and they're good playfellows with us; but they will
fight with each other now and then. At first I enjoyed my story immensely; it was about a boy
who was having the wildest kind of adventures among the Indians. I wouldn't go through such
exciting times for anything; but I enjoy reading about 'em, when I'm all safe and comfortable
at home.

Well, when it grew too dark to read, I laid my book down and began to think, and presently
it seemed as if a whole pack of Indians were dancing like wild round me, in full war-paint
and feathers, and nipping little pieces out of my arms and legs. I stood it as long as I could,
and then I began to hit out at 'em. All at once one of the creatures commenced flourishing
his tomahawk at me, getting nearer and nearer all the time. "I have tried, but I can't get
in," he said, grinning horribly, and the voice sounded just like Phil's; "he's locked his door,
and he won't even answer me,--he's madder than hornets."

"I'm sure you can't blame him: what you said was very unkind, Phil; I didn't think it of you!"
The voice was certainly Nannie's; and yet there was that horrid old Indian still nipping me.

"I know it, Nan; you needn't rub it in," groaned Phil,--the Indian. "But really, I didn't mean
one word of it, and he ought to have known that. Why, Fee's got more brains than the whole
crowd of us put together, and if only one of us can go to college, he ought to be that one.
I've screwed up my courage, and I'm going to speak to father about it."

"Oh, Phil, don't, please don't; it'll be no use. You know there is no changing papa when his
mind is made up. Better let things stand as they are until Max gets home; it won't be very
long, you know. And besides, I'm sure Felix wouldn't let you give up college for him. But you're
a dear, generous boy, to propose it."

"No, I'm not; I'm a great clumsy, cantankerous animal. Now if I could only talk as Felix can,
I wouldn't mind interviewing the pater to-morrow; but just as sure as I undertake to say anything
to him, I get so nervous and confused that I act like a fool, and that provokes him. He seems
to paralyse me. But, all the same, I'm going to talk to him about this matter to-morrow, Nannie,"--the
Indian's voice sank so low that I could hardly hear it; "I have a feeling that mother would
want Fee to go to college."

I sat up and rubbed my arms that had gone to sleep, and looked around; I was still on the old
sofa, and just a few feet away from me sat Phil, on the edge of the schoolroom table, and Nannie
in a chair beside him.

Confused and only half awake as I was, my one idea was to slip away quietly and not let 'em
know I'd heard what they had been saying, for I was sure they wouldn't like that. Nannie says
I ought to have spoken right out; but I do hate to make people feel uncomfortable. So I swung
myself softly to my feet, and--landed hard on Whiskers's tail!

Of course, after that, there was no hiding that I was there. Poor Whiskers gave a howl of pain,
and, flying at Major, boxed the solemn old doggie's ears, much to his surprise and wrath, and
they had a free fight on the spot.

"Why, Jack!" said Nannie; and I got hot all over, for I just felt by her tone that she thought
I'd been listening.

"Our Jacqueminot, I declare!" cried Phil. "You are a nice young rosebud, I must say, to be
snooping around this way! Come here, sir!"

He made a dive for me, but I drew back. "I didn't listen!" I called out. And then I remembered
that I really had, only I thought it was the Indians talking; and, dipping under his arm, I
rushed out of the room as hard as I could go, before he could catch me.

II.

IN THE STUDY.

TOLD BY JACK.

I thought very often of what Phil had said, I couldn't help it; but I don't suppose I would
ever have really understood what he meant if I hadn't heard something more the next day. Poor
me! it just seemed for those two days as if I did nothing but get into people's way and keep
hearing things that they didn't want me to. This time it was partly Betty's fault,--at least,
she was what Phil calls the "primary cause." I suppose it was because it was such a lovely
day out-of-doors, that I couldn't seem to put my mind on my books at all, and when Betty pulled
two feather-tops out of her pocket, and offered me one, I took it very willingly, and we began
to play on the sly. Of course we got caught: my feather-top must needs fly away from the leg
of the table, which was our mark, and stick itself into Kathie's leg. I don't think it hurt
her so very much, but she was startled, and didn't she howl! Miss Marston was all out of patience
with me already, and when, soon after that, I made a mess of my Latin, she got very angry,
and walked me right down to the study.

Papa listened in dead silence to all she told him; then he just lifted his eyes from his writing,
and pointed to a chair a good way from him: "Sit there," he said, "and study your lesson, and
don't disturb me." So I took my seat, and Miss Marston shut the door and went away.

My! how quiet it was in that room! Not a sound except a faint scrabbling noise now and then
from the L behind the portière,--where some very old reference books are kept,--and papa's
pen scratching across the paper, and even that stopped presently, and he began to read a book
that lay open beside him. As he sat there reading, with sheets upon sheets of the Fetich scattered
all round him, I looked and looked at him; I don't know why it is, but somehow, when I'm anywhere
alone with papa, I just have to keep looking at him instead of anything else. He's a tall man,
and thin, and he stoops round his shoulders; he wears glasses, too, like Felix, and he always
looks as if he were thinking of something 'way off in his mind. Nurse says she's sure he'd
forget to eat, if the things weren't put right under his nose; you see that's because he's
all the time thinking of books. Oh, papa's awfully clever!

After a while I found a lollipop in my pocket, and I began to suck it,--just for company, you
know; and truly the room was so quiet I was afraid papa'd hear me swallow. Every now and then
there was that little scrabble behind the portière; I made up my mind papa must have some one
there making references for him, and I wondered who. But just then came a quite loud knock
at the study door, and before papa had finished saying "Come!"--he never does say it right
away,--the door flew open, and in bounced Phil, as if he were in an awful hurry. He marched
straight to papa's desk, and began, very quickly, "Father, I'd like--" But papa just waved
his hand at him, without looking up: "In a few minutes," he said, and went right on reading.

You should have seen Phil fidget: he stood on one foot, then on the other; he put his hands
in his pockets and jingled the things he had there, till he remembered that papa doesn't like
us to do that, then he took his hands out. He straightened up, and shook his coat collar into
place, and he cleared his throat; but nothing had any effect until he accidentally knocked
a book off the desk. Then papa started, and peered up at him in the near-sighted way that Felix
does sometimes: "H'm, too bad!" he said, taking the book from Phil; then he sighed, put his
finger on the page of his book to mark the place, and said, in a resigned sort of way, "Well,
what is it you want?"

And I tell you, Phil didn't take long to come to the point; he pitched right in, in that quick,
headlong way he has when he's awfully in earnest. "I want to ask you, father, please to let
Felix go to college in my place. As long as we can't both go, I think he ought to be the one.
You know, sir, he's a thousand times cleverer than I am, and he'll be sure to do you twice
the credit that I shall. I do wish you'd consider the change."

"And what do you propose to do in that case?" papa asked, peering up at him again.

"Go into business,--lots of fellows do at my age,--if I can get anything at all," answered
Phil, squaring his shoulders.

Papa sat and thought and thought for several minutes, without a word; then he said, in that
quiet tone of voice that we children know always settles a question, "No, I prefer that the
present arrangement should be carried out." Then he began reading again.

I thought Phil would have gone, after that; but no, he got quite excited: "It isn't fair to
Felix," he cried, thumping his hand down on the desk with such force that the pages of the
Fetich just danced,--you'll hear more about the Fetich by and by,--"indeed it isn't! He's got
the most brains of the whole lot of us put together, and he ought to have some advantages.
And besides, sir, you know he was mother's boy." Phil's voice shook so that a big lump came
in my throat. "I'm sure she would want him to go to college; for her sake, let us change places."

Papa put up his hand quickly, and shielded his eyes from the light, and he didn't answer right
away. "It was--her wish--that you should go," he said presently, stopping between the words.

"Because she expected there'd be money enough for us both," Phil began eagerly; but all of
a sudden the portière that hung over the L was pushed aside, and who should come limping up
to them but Felix!

His eyes were shining, even through his glasses, and he didn't seem to mind papa one bit. "So
that's what you're up to, is it?" he said to Phil, "trying to give me your birthright!" By
this time he'd reached Phil's side, and he threw his arm right across Phil's shoulders. "Dear
old Lion-heart!" he said,--how his voice did ring out! "And I thought you didn't care!"

And papa just sat there and looked at them, without a word, from under his hand.

Now I suppose you think I was a very mean sort of a boy to sit there and take in all this that
wasn't intended for me to hear; but really it wasn't my fault. You see, I was so surprised
when Phil walked in and began to talk like that, that I never thought of saying anything; but
pretty soon I remembered, and I felt very uncomfortable. I got up then, and walked a few steps
forward, but nobody noticed me. And when Phil got so excited, I couldn't get a word out. Then
Felix came out, and I really got desperate,--I felt I must let 'em know I was there; so I just
called out twice, quite loud, "Please, I'm here!"

They all jumped, they were so surprised, and Phil wheeled round on me in a minute. "That ubiquitous
'Jack rose' again!" he exclaimed; and taking me by the collar,--that was really very mean of
Phil,--he walked me very fast over to the door. Then he opened the door, and said, "Skip!"
and gave me quite a hard shove into the hall, and shut the door again. I tell you what now,
my feelings were awfully hurt; I just wished Betty were there; I know she'd have given it to Phil!

"Jack!" somebody called just then, and there was Nannie seated in the niche at the head of
the stairs. I ran up and squeezed in alongside of her, and she snuggled me up to her, and made
me feel ever so much better. I told her the whole story, and somehow, by the time I got through,
instead of being angry any more, I really felt sorry for the boys. "Oh, Nannie," I said, "I
do wish Fee could go to college!"

Nannie caught my hand tight between her two palms. "Jack," she said softly, "say our verse
for the day, will you?"

So I repeated it: "'I say unto you, that if two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything
that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven. For where two
or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.'"

"That has comforted me all day," whispered Nannie. "That's what we can do for Felix: we can
pray--you and I--that God will make a way for him to go to college. Will you, Jackie-boy?"

"Yes," I said presently; "but--but--perhaps, Nannie, you'd better not say anything to Betty
about it, 'cause--well, you know she might make fun of me."

"Oh, no, she won't," said Nannie, "because you and I are the 'two,' Jack, and she's the 'three';
she's praying for Felix, too."

Well, I was dumfounded,--Betty, of all people!

Just then the study door opened, and Phil and Felix came out; Phil had his arm over Fee's shoulder,
and he began helping him up the steps. I felt they'd want Nannie to themselves,--and, besides,
Phil might just have said something to tease me again; so I ran up stairs alone, and left them
to talk together.

All this happened some weeks ago, and though Phil has commenced college, no way has come yet
for Felix to go; but we "three" still keep on praying for it.

III.

CONCERNING A PERFORMANCE.

TOLD BY NANNIE.

So many and such unexpected things have happened lately that I scarcely know where to begin,
or how to tell everything.

The very first surprise was two letters that came for Felix and me from our godmother, aunt
Lindsay. She is not really our aunt, though we call her so, and I'm named Nancy after her;
but she knew dear mamma when she was a girl, and she is the only person except mamma that we
ever heard call papa "Jack." Aunt Lindsay is quite an old lady, and she's very eccentric. She
lives in a big old house in Boston, and very seldom comes to New York; but twice a year, on
our birthday and at Christmas, she sends us a letter and a present,--generally a book,--and
Fee and I have to write and thank her. How we dread those letters! It was hard enough when
we had mamma to talk them over with before we began them; but now it's a great deal worse,
for Miss Marston does not help us in the least.

She says we are quite old enough now to do them alone, and I suppose we are. But we can't express
ourselves in the same way time after time, and it is so difficult to think of new things to
say that are interesting and not frivolous,--for aunt Lindsay wouldn't permit that. Sometimes
we really get low-spirited over our efforts, and I'd be ashamed to tell how many sheets of
paper and envelopes are spoilt in the undertaking. Once, in a fit of desperation, Felix bought
a "Complete Letter-Writer," and we hunted through it; but there seemed to be nothing in it
suitable for an occasion such as ours, and besides, the language used in the "Letter-Writer"
was so very fine and unlike our former efforts that we were afraid aunt Lindsay would, as Phil
vulgarly puts it, "smell a mice." So that had to be given up, and finally, after many and great
struggles, with the help of the whole family, we would manage to write something that Miss
Marston allowed us to send. On the principle that brevity is wit, some of these productions
of ours are really remarkable.

And now, though it was neither Christmas nor our birthday, here came two letters from our godmother
which would have to be answered. We groaned as we received them, and the family, even to Kathie,
gave us their sympathy,--Phil suggesting that perhaps "the old lady" had sent us a whole library
this time, which would of course call for a special expression of gratitude.

Think, then, how we felt when we opened the letters and found that our godmother wrote to tell
us she had made arrangements for Felix to take painting lessons for one term, and for me, violin
lessons for the same length of time! To say we were astonished doesn't at all express our state
of mind. The questions that occurred to us when we got over the first shock were, how could
aunt Lindsay have known just what would best please each of us, and why had she remembered
us at this time of the year, which was no particular occasion? And then we thought of her kindness,
and were so ashamed! Fee and I looked at each other, and though we didn't say it, the same
thought came to us both,--that we would write her the nicest letter of thanks that we could
compose, if it took every sheet of note-paper we owned.

Of course we read aunt Lindsay's letter aloud,--that and talking them over is the best part
of receiving letters,--and of course we all got very much excited over our unexpected good
fortune. Felix said right away that he would give Nora lessons in drawing two afternoons in
the week,--she really draws very nicely, and is so anxious to get on,--provided she'd promise
not to "put on any airs or frills;" and I told Fee I'd help him--in the same way--with his
violin playing. Then Phil proposed, and the whole family approved, that we should on the following
evening--which was papa's night at the Archæological Society--celebrate the happy event by
what we call "a musical performance."

Though we are very fond of these "performances," we have not had one for quite a while, because
some of us older ones haven't felt up to it; for, as Fee truly says, "it really requires very
good spirits indeed to make a festive occasion go off successfully." Since that day in papa's
study that Jack has told about, nothing more has been said of Fee's going to college,--though
we all want it just as much as ever, and Jack and I feel that it will come,--and Felix himself
seems to have quite given up the idea.

He laughs and jokes again in his old merry way, particularly when Phil is at home; Nora and
he have made friends, and Betty and Jack have got over staring at Fee with big round eyes of
sympathy, and dear old Phil no longer skulks in and out of the house as if he were ashamed
of himself; now he tells us bits of his college experience, and--as of old--gets Felix to help
him with his studies. Things look as if everybody was satisfied; but, though he never alludes
to it, I know Fee's heart is sore over his disappointment,--you see, he is my own twin, and,
while I love all my brothers and sisters, Felix is more dear to me than any one else in the
whole wide world, and I understand him better than anybody else does.

Fee is not like the rest of us; in the first place, he is more delicate, and his lameness makes
him very sensitive. Then, too, though we all, from Phil to Alan, confide in him our troubles
and pleasures, he rarely, if ever, opens his heart to any of us. And when we talk things over
among ourselves, and so in a way help one another along, Fee keeps his deepest feelings to
himself. Very often we children talk of dear mamma, particularly when we're together in the
firelight Sunday afternoons and evenings,--it's a comfort to us; but Felix simply listens,--he
never speaks of her, though he was mother's boy. But I know, all the same, that he misses her
every day of his life, and that as long as he lives he'll never forget one tone of her voice,
or one word she has said to him.

Fee used to have a dreadful temper; he'd say such cutting, sarcastic things! and when mamma
would speak to him about it, he'd declare that he couldn't help it, and that the sharp ugly
words would come. But now, since she's gone, he is so much better, and I'm sure that he's trying
to control himself, because he remembers how grieved she used to be when he got into a rage.
I don't mean to say that he has entirely gotten over it,--I don't suppose that will ever be;
but he doesn't flash out as he used to, and sometimes when he is very angry, he sets his lips
tight together, and limps out of the room just as fast as ever he can go, to keep the ugly
words from being spoken.

Once in a great while, if I am alone in the schoolroom, he'll come and throw himself down on
the old sofa beside me, and, putting his head in my lap, lay my hand over his eyes. I know
then, as well as if he had told me, that he is thinking of dear mamma and longing for her;
and such a rush of love comes into my heart for him that I think he must feel it in my very
finger-tips as they touch him.

