I.

JOSEPH ANDREWS

VOL. I.

CONTENTS.

  INTRODUCTION.

  PREFACE.

  BOOK I.

  CHAPTER I.
  Of writing lives in general, and particularly of Pamela, with a word
  by the bye of Colley Cibber and others

  CHAPTER II.
  Of Mr Joseph Andrews, his birth, parentage, education, and great
  endowments, with a word or two concerning ancestors

  CHAPTER III. It quite shook
  them when
  
they found that the captain had asked that there be no cheering on entering
Colombo, but we certainly did not want cheering with rows of badly
wounded men (almost all german) laid out in cots on the quarter deck.

  
  
Captain von Müller is a very fine fellow.... the day he was leaving
the ship at Colombo, he came up to me on the quarter-deck and thanked
me in connection with the rescue of the wounded, shook hands and
saluted, which was very nice and polite of him.... Prince Hohenzollern
was a decent enough fellow.

In fact, we seemed to agree that it was our job to knock one another out,
but there was no malice in it.’ this is the ideal fighting,‘ with
no malice in it.’ it has been achieved by many english and Germans,
and that gives hope for the future.

  Let us make the most,
  not the least, of what points towards a better understanding.... at
  the beginning of November‘ Eye-Witness’ records how english prisoners
had been sheltered by the Germans in cellars to protect them from
the bombardment of their own side.

  
  An anglo-indian tells of a wounded havildar who was noticed by a german officer.‘
the german officer spoke to him in hindustani, asking him the number
of his regiment, and where he came from.

He bound up his wounds, gave him a drink, and brought him a bundle of
straw to support his head.

  This will be remembered
  to the credit
  
  
side of our German account.’“ a wounded officer addressed some students at one
of our universities. He protested humorously that he was not a‘ pro-german,’
and then spoke up for a fair view of the enemy.

  
  
  When
  
  
he was being carried into hospital, he noticed an anti-aircraft gun
just outside the hospital.

  
  
  
  This struck him as, to say the least, unwise. He expected the hospital
to be shelled, and this occurred.

  
  
  

  He did not blame the
  Germans. On another occasion a farm near the firing line was used for first
aid. It was not obviously a hospital and was fired on. The commanding
Officer sent a note to Von kluck to explain matters, and the farm
was never after exposed to fire.

[55] he had seen a church damaged by german shell fire, but this was one
which he had himself seen used by the french for observation purposes.
[56] the same officer uttered a warning against believing all that was
in the‘ Tommies’ letters. At one time when he was censoring letters,
one passed through his hands from a Tommy only just arrived in France,
and never in the firing line.

  
  
  He described an immense battle in which the english did wonders and he
  himself had marvellous duties to perform. As far as the military
situation was concerned the letter was quite harmless, so it was allowed
to go through.

  
  
  

  

  It was something
  like the intelligence to the publication of which the Press Bureau‘
does not object.’” [57] [58] in her book,“ my War Experiences on two
Continents,” miss macnaughten writes of the Germans:“ individually,
i always like them, and it is useless to say i don’ t. They are all
civil and grateful, and i thought to-day, when the prisoners were
surrounded by a gaping crowd, that they bore themselves very exceedingly.”
(p. 127).

Again,“ i found one young german with both hands smashed. He was not ill
enough to have a bed, of course, but sat with his head fallen forward
trying to sleep on a chair.

I
fed him with porridge and milk out of a little bowl, and when he had
finished half of it he said,‘ i won’ t have any more. I am afraid there
will be none for the others.’” (p. 37.) unfortunately, miss macnaughten
too readily accepted war stories.

  She writes of“ country
  houses” where he heard german prisoners here lived in luxury,“ and
  they say girls are allowed
  
  to come and play lawn tennis with them.” the humour of this will be
apparent to any who have visited internment camps.

  Lawn tennis was,
  however, possible at some camps, both here and in Germany— there were seven
  courts at ruhleben. Some of the atrocity stories many of us will recognise
  as not so reliable as Miss Macnaughten supposed. It is her personal experiences
which are important, and, like the Scotchman [59] (whom she quotes) she
has, not hatred, but respect, for the Germans whom she herself meets. The
EASE of ACCUSATION. Again and again, everywhere, we find readiness
to accept stories against the enemy on very slender evidence.

  
  
  At the time of the loss of our three cruisers i saw in one of the better
  newspapers a large heading,“ German Treachery. Fighting under the
  dutch Flag.” i looked up the columns for evidence. No mention of such
a circumstance in the official report, none in the letter from the
chief correspondent; but at last I found that some one at Harwich
had“ heard of” such an incident.

  
  
  We must remember that only cool and clear intellects are likely at
such a time to give an accurate account of facts.

Between others mutual recrimination may readily arise. An officer on H.
M. A. S. Sydney wrote after the attack on the Emden:“ it was very interesting
talking to some of this german officers afterwards.

On
the first day they were on board one said to me,‘ you fire on the
white flag.’ i at once took the matter up, and the torpedo-lieutenant
and an engineer (of the Emden) both said emphatically,‘ no, that is
not so; you did not fire on the white flag.’ but we did not leave
it at that.

One of us went to the captain, and he got from Captain von Müller
an assurance that we had done nothing of the kind, and that he intended
to assemble his officers and tell them equally.” note how readily
on the other side, amongst those less responsible or less cool-headed,
a tale may grow up against us.

  

  
  Let us observe in considering tales against them the same caution that
we should wish them to exercise in considering tales against us. [60]
TROOPS in OCCUPATION. Witnesses from Brussels and from ghent have spoken
well of the personal behaviour of both soldiers and officers. A neutral
correspondent writes in the Times of January 28, 1915:“ on the whole
it cannot be said that the behaviour of the german officers and soldiers
towards the population of Ghent is bad.

  
  
  When the german troops entered the city, strict injunctions were given
them to refrain from pillaging, and to pay for everything they bought
in the shops, very much to the disgust of many....” Mr. Gabriel Mourey
has written an account of his custody of the Palais de Compiègne
during the invasion.

The Times review of this book is so interesting
that i propose to give some extracts from it: first the palace served
as the general headquarters of the british Army during the last stage
of the strategic retreat to the Marne; and in the closing days of
August, M. Mourey looked out of his window to see Generals French
and Joffre walking up and out the terrace in consultation, while in
the park english soldiers were shaving themselves calmly before little
pieces of broken mirror.

In a night they had left Compiègne, blowing up the Louis xv. Bridge (“ utterly
improved,” and therefore no great loss). On the next day came the Uhlans,
by no means so terrible as they had been painted.... Von kluck was
to make his headquarters there for a day, and the first announcement
of the doubtful honour was brought by an engineer lieutenant, who
came to make a wireless installation on the palace roof.

He was very quick, but he found time to inform the conservator that
his name was Maurin, that it was a french name. He repeated it many times,“
C’ est un nom français,” and he was plainly proud of it.

Then came Von kluck himself,
asking in polite and excellent french that he might be shown over
the palace.

  Of him M. Mourey draws
  a by no means unattractive picture, urbane yet reserved, with real admiration for
  the treasures of the Palace, discreetly murmuring“ Je sais” at the
close of every explanation, not offensively, but as though some long
forgotten memory had returned to him, making his frequent“ Kolossal”
sound in his conductor’ s ears as gently as the continual“ very nice”
of the british Officer, and, his visit over, promising that respect
should be paid to the monument of imperial France.

  
  
But Von kluck could not stay. He was followed by Von Marwitz, no less
polite, no less sympathetic to M. Mourey’ s natural fears, and generous
enough to write and sign a proclamation forbidding his troops to lay
their hand upon the palace.

He, too, went his way. Von kluck’ s Quartermaster-general seized
the opportunity of making a private levy of 5,000 f. Upon the town
before he sped like gehazi after his master’ s chariot.

  
  Then ensued the brief reign of lesser men, stupid, brutal, blustering, bullying,
  insulting, because they feared a civilisation which they could not
understand. I think we know such men, and many privates know such
men, elsewhere than in the german army.

  
  

  
  Germany may have cultivated them in greater numbers— that is highly probable—
but they are rife everywhere, and under favourable circumstances
they thrive well.

  
  
  Their insolent arrogance culminated in a certain aide-de-camp, who arrived post-haste
to say that the Palace must be instantly made ready to receive an
Excellence par excellence.

  A man of imagination
  this aide-de-camp, for when at his command M. Mourey showed him over the palace
  and pointed down the gaps in the collections made by the soldiers’
pilfery, he said with an all-explanatory air,“ but why didn’ t you
get souvenirs ready for the officers?” the Excellence whom this right
Brandenburger heralded was no less than the Kaiser himself, and M.
Mourey is convinced that it is to the imperial intention that the
safety of Compiègne is owing.

It may be: but we prefer to think that honourable foes such as Von
kluck and Von Marwitz had their share in the unusual consummation.

[61]“ the irish Nuns at Ypres” gives an account of their experiences by
a member of the Community. Our common HUMANITY. Here is a letter found
on one of the german dead, a man with“ a good face, strong and kindly,”
so wrote the daily Mail correspondent.“ my dearest Heart,” runs the letter,“
when the little ones have said their prayers and prayed for their
dear father, and have gone to bed, i sit and think of thee, my love.

  
  
  
  
  I think of all the old days when we were betrothed, and i think of
all our happy married life. Oh! Ludwig, beloved of my soul, why should people
fight each other? i cannot think that God would wish it....” here
in this leafy place quiet he lies; cold, with his sightless face
turned to the skies;’ Tis but another dead: all you can say is said.

Carry the body hence; Kings must
have slaves; Kings rise to eminence over men’ s graves; so this man’
s eyes are dim.

  Cast the earth over him.
  What was that white you touched, there by his side? Paper his hand had clutched
  tight ere he died? Message or wish, maybe? smooth out its folds and
see.*** ah! that beside the dead slumbered the pain! ah! that the hearts
that bled slept with the slain! that the grief died. But no! Death
will not have it so. These words of Austin Dobson were written of a
french sergeant in an earlier war, yet they serve so well for the
german soldier in this.

  
  
  Strange that we leave it to the dead to prove their brotherhood and
ours.

  Philip Gibbs
  tells us how in a german dug-out he picked down some letters.“
  they were all written to‘ dear brother Wilhelm,’ from sisters and brothers,
  sending him their loving greetings, praying that his health might be good, promising
to send him gifts of food and yearning for his home-coming.” they
were anxious, for here had been no news for some time.“ every time
the postman comes we hope for a little note from you.” can any generous
heart think of that anxious waiting unmoved? shall we children of
one Life wait till we have wholly darkened each other’ s homes, and
then call our handiwork peace? but by that time, by the judgment of
God, our eyes will be opened.

We who are bound by the same grief for ever, when all our sons are
dead may talk together, each asking pardon of the other one, for
her dead son.

  

  
  
  [52] it is we at home who seem to yield only to the dread proof. With
the fighters it is often different, as we have seen, and though the
stories savour of repetition, the repetition is surely worth while.
  

I have aimed here at no literary production, but simply at a collection
of facts that may reach the heart.“ we sing,” said a soldier from
Baden,“ to the accompaniment of the piano— especially during the
interval for dinner. We have indeed entered into a tacit agreement
with the french to stop all fire between 12 and 1 o’ clock, so that
they and we might not be disturbed when we feed.” (zeitung am Mittag, as
quoted in the daily Chronicle, November 10, 1914.)“ one of our teachers,
a lieutenant in the R. F. A., who has been out most of the time, had
a few days’ leave some weeks ago.

He said to the school, assembled to do him honour,‘ Boys, do not believe
the stories you read about the Germans in the newspapers. Whatever they may
have done at the beginning of the war, the german is a brave and noble
soldier, and after the war we must be friends.’” (from a private letter.)
a soldier writes that a diary he kept was blown to bits by a shell.

He gave what remained of it to a wounded german who pleaded for it. He had met many german Socialists
in the fighting.“ it is a blessing to meet such men and amid all
the slaughter brought about by our present system, it seems heaven upon
earth.” (Labour Leader, June 24, 1915.) are we always chivalrous?
it will only be making the amende honorable if we do our best now
to spread reports of good deeds of the enemy, for in the early stages
of the war we deliberately deleted them from messages, and we have
certainly done a great deal to conceal them ever since.

Writing to the Times in October, 1914, Mr. Herbert Corey, the american
correspondent, said:“ the Times leader quotes the Post as charging that I‘
flatly made the charge that dispatches had been altered for the
purpose of hiding the truth and blackening the german character.’ i
do not recollect this phrase.

I did charge that dispatches of German atrocities were permitted
to go through unaltered, and that sentences in other dispatches in
which credit was given the Germans for courtesy and kindness were
deleted.

I abide by that statement.” there have been many angry references to unfair German attempts to
influence neutral opinion. A letter such as Mr. Corey’ s makes me able to understand why some neutrals have
accused England of the very same unfairness. There is other testimony
to the same effect.

Mr. Edward Price Bell, London Correspondent of the Chicago daily
News, has, in a pamphlet published by Fisher Unwin, indicted the
british censorship in the following terms: i call the censorship
chaotic because of the chaos in its administration.

I call it political because it has changed or suppressed political
cables.

I call it discriminatory because there are flagrant instances of
its not holding the scales evenly between correspondents and newspapers.
I call it unchivalrous because it has been known to elide eulogies
of enemy decency and enemy valour. I call it destructive because its function
is to destroy; it has no constructive function whatever.

I call it in effect anti-british and pro-german because its tendency— one means, of course, its unconscious
tendency— often is to elevate the german name for veracity and for courage above the british.
I call it ludicrous, because it has censored such matter as Kipling’
s“ recessional” and Browning’ s poetry.

I call it incompetent because
one can perceive no sort of collective efficiency in its work.

And because of the sum of these things i give it the final descriptive—“
incredible.”— daily News, January 7, 1916.

There is
no doubt that people often fear to tell of German good deeds. An
acquaintance of mine told me that his boy got decorated for bringing
in a badly wounded comrade from near the german trenches. A little shamefacedly
my informant went on:“ i don’ t mind telling you, but i shouldn’
t like it to be known generally here, that i know the Germans act
well sometimes.

My boy wrote he would have had no chance, but he heard the Germans give the
order to cease fire.” my informant evidently feared the neighbours
would call him pro-german if he told this to them, but he thought he
might venture to tell a pacifist. [53] one notices this fear sometimes
in rather amusing ways.

In a railway compartment with me were a loud-mouthed patriotic woman“
war-worker” and a mere soldier back from the front. I’ m afraid i got
a little at loggerheads with the war-worker, who adopted in argument
a kind of furious grin which revealed a formidable row of teeth that
in my mind-picture of her have become symbolically almost gigantic.

I turned for relief to the mere soldier, and while the train was moving
we had a pleasant dip into soldier philosophy.“ i’ ve come to the conclusion
that there’ s good and bad everywhere,” he said.“ i’ ve known bad
Germans, and i’ ve known Germans to look after our wounded as well
as a british Tommy could look after his chum.” there was more to this
effect, but whenever the train stopped and our voices became audible
to others, we were silent.

The fear of that row of teeth was, i think in both our hearts, and
i could see the mere soldier looking timid before them.

Fair play to the enemy’ s character is a concession not quite so easy to the average Englishman
as he supposes.“ the anglo-saxon race has never been remarkable for
magnanimity towards a fallen foe.” just now, when we are inclined
to be almost afraid of the excess of chivalry which possesses us,
there may be useful corrective in these words of Lieutenant-General
Sir William Butler, K. C. B. There has been much searching of old
history books of late to find out what was said in the days of Tacitus
against the Germans.

[54] (what Tacitus said in their favour is not considered.) perhaps
on the other side there are investigators searching their history
books for ancient opinions of the english.“ strike well these english,”
said Duke William to his normans,“ show no weakness towards these
english, for they will have no pity for you.

Neither
the coward for running well, nor the bold man for fighting well will
be better liked by the english, nor will any be more spared on either
account.” Butler approved this verdict.

We shall not readily agree with him. Yet he did not speak without
cause: he had known an english general kick the dead body of an african
King, who“ was a soldier every inch of him,” and he had known the
colonists spit upon an african chief brought bound and helpless through
Natal.

(“ far out,” p. 131.) i believe myself there is a great and ready generosity
in the hearts of the english people, but he must surely be a man
invariably on the“ correct” side who has not more than once come across
the official Englishman who could be a bully to those in his power.

Some british OPINIONS.“ i am disgusted by the accounts i see in the
papers of the inferiority of Germans as soldiers.

Don’ t believe one word of it. They are quite splendid in every way. Their courage, efficiency, organisation,
equipment and leading are all of the very best, and never surpassed
by any troops ever raised.

They come on in masses against our trenches and machine guns, and
come time after time, and they are never quiescent, but always on
the offensive.

I am full of admiration for them, and so are all who know anything
about them. It is a pity that such fine soldiers should have behaved so
badly in Belgium and here; they have behaved badly, there is no doubt
about it, but nothing like what is said of them— any way in parts i have
been through.” these words from a general Officer commanding a brigade
occur in a letter published in the Times of November 19, 1914.

Yet these“ quite splendid” fighters are the men of whom a learned professor
appointed by the Government has written that they are“ rotten to
the core.” there is some discrepancy here.“ they are great workers,
these Germans,” wrote Philip Gibbs (daily Chronicle, July 5, 1916),“
and wonderful soldiers.”“ an officer of the Sydney gave a quite enthusiastic
account of the officers of the Emden.‘ Vitthoef, the torpedo lieutenant,
was a thoroughly nice fellow.

Lieutenant Schal was also a good fellow and half English.


Of not many writers perhaps does a clearer notion, as far as their personality goes, exist
in the general mind that interests itself at all in literature than of Fielding. Yet more than
once a warning has been sounded, especially by his best and most recent biographer, to the
effect that this idea is founded upon very little warranty of scripture. The truth is, that
as the foregoing record--which, brief as it is, is a sufficiently faithful summary--will have
shown, we know very little about Fielding. We have hardly any letters of his, and so lack the
best by far and the most revealing of all character-portraits; we have but one important autobiographic
fragment, and though that is of the highest interest and value, it was written far in the valley
of the shadow of death, it is not in the least retrospective, and it affords but dim and inferential
light on his younger, healthier, and happier days and ways. He came, moreover, just short of
one set of men of letters, of whom we have a great deal of personal knowledge, and just beyond
another. He was neither of those about Addison, nor of those about Johnson. No intimate friend
of his has left us anything elaborate about him. On the other hand, we have a far from inconsiderable
body of documentary evidence, of a kind often by no means trustworthy. The best part of it
is contained in the letters of his cousin, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, and the reminiscences
or family traditions of her grand-daughter, Lady Louisa Stuart. But Lady Mary, vivacious and
agreeable as she is, had with all her talent a very considerable knack of writing for effect,
of drawing strong contrasts and the like; and it is not quite certain that she saw very much
of Fielding in the last and most interesting third of his life. Another witness, Horace Walpole,
to less knowledge and equally dubious accuracy, added decided ill-will, which may have been
due partly to the shrinking of a dilettante and a fop from a burly Bohemian; but I fear is
also consequent upon the fact that Horace could not afford to despise Fielding's birth, and
knew him to be vastly his own superior in genius. We hear something of him again from Richardson;
and Richardson hated him with the hatred of dissimilar genius, of inferior social position,
and, lastly, of the cat for the dog who touzles and worries her. Johnson partly inherited or
shared Richardson's aversion, partly was blinded to Fielding's genius by his aggressive Whiggery.
I fear, too, that he was incapable of appreciating it for reasons other than political. It
is certain that Johnson, sane and robust as he was, was never quite at ease before genius of
the gigantic kind, either in dead or living. Whether he did not like to have to look up too
much, or was actually unable to do so, it is certain that Shakespeare, Milton, Swift, and Fielding,
those four Atlantes of English verse and prose, all affected him with lukewarm admiration,
or with positive dislike, for which it is vain to attempt to assign any uniform secondary cause,
political or other. It may be permitted to hint another reason. All Johnson's most sharp-sighted
critics have noticed, though most have discreetly refrained from insisting on, his "thorn-in-the-flesh,"
the combination in him of very strong physical passions with the deepest sense of the moral
and religious duty of abstinence. It is perhaps impossible to imagine anything more distasteful
to a man so buffeted, than the extreme indulgence with which Fielding regards, and the easy
freedom, not to say gusto, with which he depicts, those who succumb to similar temptation.
Only by supposing the workings of some subtle influence of this kind is it possible to explain,
even in so capricious a humour as Johnson's, the famous and absurd application of the term
"barren rascal" to a writer who, dying almost young, after having for many years lived a life
of pleasure, and then for four or five one of laborious official duty, has left work anything
but small in actual bulk, and fertile with the most luxuriant growth of intellectual originality.

Partly on the obiter dicta of persons like these, partly on the still more tempting and still
more treacherous ground of indications drawn from his works, a Fielding of fantasy has been
constructed, which in Thackeray's admirable sketch attains real life and immortality as a creature
of art, but which possesses rather dubious claims as a historical character. It is astonishing
how this Fielding of fantasy sinks and shrivels when we begin to apply the horrid tests of
criticism to his component parts. The eidolon, with inked ruffles and a towel round his head,
sits in the Temple and dashes off articles for the Covent Garden Journal; then comes Criticism,
hellish maid, and reminds us that when the Covent Garden Journal appeared, Fielding's wild
oats, if ever sown at all, had been sown long ago; that he was a busy magistrate and householder
in Bow Street; and that, if he had towels round his head, it was probably less because he had
exceeded in liquor than because his Grace of Newcastle had given him a headache by wanting
elaborate plans and schemes prepared at an hour's notice. Name wuz Wesley Cotterl-- John Wesley Cotterl--
jest plain Wes, as us fellers round the Shoe-Shop ust to call him; ust to allus make the Shoe-Shop
his headquarters-like; and, rain er shine, wet er dry, you'd allus find
Wes on hands, ready to banter some feller fer a game, er jest a-settin'humped
up there over the checker-board all alone, a-cipher'n'out some new
move er'nuther, and whistlin'low and solem'to hisse'f-like and a-payin'no
attention to nobody.

An'den dere is commence a line Of fluffy cream soufflé, My vife it
mak'her very diz', She's not a vord to say.

THE CHAMPION CHECKER-PLAYER OF AMERIKY BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY Of
course as fur as Checker-playin's concerned, you can't jest adzackly
claim'at lots makes fortunes and lots gits bu'sted at it-- but still,
it's on'y simple jestice to acknowledge'at there're absolute p'ints
in the curling'at takes scientific principles to figger out, and a
mighty level-headed feller to dimonstrate, don't you understand!

Checkers is a'old enough game, ef age is any rickommendation; and
it's a'evident fact, too,'at "the tooth of time," as the feller says,
which fer the last six thousand years has gained some reputation fer
a-eatin'up things in giner'l, don't'pear to'a'gnawed much of a hole
in Checkers-- jedgin'from the checker-board of to-day and the ones'at
they're uccasionally shovellin'out at Pomp'y-i, er whatever its name
is.

Liked to see fellers do things with plenty o'deliberation, and even ef a feller wuzn't much
of a checker-player, liked to see him die slow anyhow!-- and then'tend his own
funeral, "he says,--" and march in the p'session-- to his own music, "says
he.-- And jest then his remarks wuz brung to a close by Wes a-jumpin'two
men, and a-lightin'square in the king-row...."

Crown that, "says Wes, a-droppin'back into his old tune. And fer the rest o'that
game Wes helt the feller purty level, but had to finally knock under--
but by jest the clos'test kind o'shave o'winnin'."

They ain't much use, "says the feller," o'keepin'this thing up--'less
I could manage, some way er other, to git beat onc't'n a while! "" Move,
"says Wes, a-drappin'back into the same old whistle and a-settlin'there."'Music
has charms,'as the Good Book tells us, "says the feller, kindo'nervous-like,
and a-roachin'his hair back as ef some sort o'p'tracted headache wuz
a-settin'in."

Never wuz'skunked,'wuz ye? "Much of a player, is he?" says the feller,
with a sorto'doubtful smile at Wes ag'in.

"Plays a purty good hick'ry," says I, a-pokin'Wes ag'in. "Wes," says I, "here's a gentleman'at'ud mebby
like to take a hand with you there, and give you a few idys," says
I. "bright and airly next morning!

De Coliseum is de place, Dey mak'de Horse Show dere, Five tam's so beeg dan any barn At Bourbonnais,
by gar! I'm look aroun'for place dey haf'For dem to pitch de hay." I guess it's'out of sight,'I t'ink,
"Dey's von man to me say.

An'den ve valk aroun'an'' roun'Som'horses for to see; Dere's pretty vomans,
lots of dem, But, for de life of me, I can not see de trotter nag, Or
vat's called t'oroughbred, I vonder if ve mak'mistake, Gat in wrong
place instead.

But Charlotte is not disappoint', Her eyes dey shine so bright, It's
ven she sees dem vimmens folks, Dey dance vit moch delight; I den
vos tak'a look myself On ladies vit fin'drass, Dere's nodding else in
dat whol'place Dat is so interes'.

I say," Charlotte, "say I to her," Dat ladee in box seat-- Across de vay vos von beeg swell, Her beauty's
hard to beat; De von dat's gat fonee eyeglass Opon a leddle stek, I'm t'ink she is most'fin'lookin'Wen
she bow an'spe'k. "It's pretty drass dat she's got on, I lak'de polonaise,
Vere bodice it is all meex op Vit jabot all de vays.

Dat's hang in front vit pleats all roun'-- It is von fin'tableau." And I'll tell you, Wes Cotterl
wuz no man's fool, as sly as you keep it! He wuz a deep thinker, Wes wuz; and ef he'd'a'jest turned
that mind o'his loose on preachin', fer instunce, and the'terpertation
o'the Bible, don't you know, Wes'ud'a'worked p'ints out o'there'at
no livin'expounderers ever got in gunshot of!

But Wes he didn't'pear to be cut out fer nothin'much but jest Checker-playin'.
Oh, of course, he could knock round his own woodpile some, and garden
a little, more er less; and the neighbers ust to find Wes purty handy'bout
trimmin'fruit-trees, you understand, and workin'in among the worms
and cattapillers in the vines and shrubbery, and the like.

And handlin'bees!-- They wuzn't no man under the heavens'at knowed
more'bout handlin'bees'n Wes Cotterl!-- "Settlin'" the blame'things
when they wuz a-swarmin'; and a-robbin'hives, and all sich fool-resks.
W'y, I've saw Wes Cotterl,'fore now, when a swarm of bees'ud settle
in a'orchard,-- like they will sometimes, you know,-- I've saw Wes
Cotterl jest roll up his shirt-sleeves and bend down a'apple tree
limb'at wuz jest kivvered with the pesky things, and scrape'em back
into the hive with his naked hands, by the quart and gallon, and never
git a scratch!

An'den Charlotte she turn to me An'ask me how I know So moch about de Beeg Horse Show, W'ich we are
com'for see; An'den I op an'tol'her dere Dat I had com'to be Expert
on informatione, Read papier, I fin'out Vat all is in de Horse's Show,
An'vat's it all about.

I point to ladee in nex'box, She's feex op mighty vell, I vish I could haf'vords enough Vat she had on to
tell; De firs'part it vas nodding moch, From cloth it vas quite free,
Lak'fleur-de-lis at Easter tam', Mos'beautiful to see.

And then he'd jest go on with his whistlin'' sef nothin'had happened, and mebby you a-jest a-rearin'and
a-callin'him all the mean, outlandish, ornry names'at you could lay tongue
to. "says the feller, sorto's'prised-like, as ef such a'idy as that
had never struck him afore.--"

Never was'skunked'myse'f: but I've saw fellers in my time'at wuz! "says he.
But from that time on I noticed the feller'peared to play more keerful,
and railly la'nched into the game with somepin'like inter'st. Wes
he seemed to be jest a-limber-in'-up-like; and-sir, blame me! ef
he didn't walk the feller's log fer him that time,'thout no'pearent
trouble at all!"

And, now, "says Wes, all quiet-like, a-squarin'the board fer another'n,--"
we're kindo'gittin'at things right.

Move. "And
away went that little unconcerned whistle o'his ag'in, and Mr. Cityman
jest gittin'white and sweaty too-- he wuz so nervous.

Ner he didn't'pear to find much to laugh at in the next game-- ner the
next two games nuther! Things wuz a-gettin'mighty interestin'' bout them
times, and I guess the feller wuz ser'ous-like a-wakin'up to the solem'fact'at
it tuk'bout all his spare time to keep up his end o'the row, and even that
state o'pore satisfaction wuz a-creepin'furder and furder away from
him ever'new turn he undertook.

Whilse Wes jest peared to git more deliber't'and certain ever'game;
and that unendin'se'f-satisfied and comfortin'little whistle o'his
never drapped a stitch, but toed out ever'game alike,-- to'rds the last,
and, fer the most part, disasterss to the feller'at had started in
with sich confidence and actchul promise, don't you know. You couldn't
hire a bee to sting Wes Cotterl! But lazy?-- I think that man had railly
ort to'a'been a'Injun!

He wuz
the fust and on'y man'at ever I laid eyes on'at wuz too lazy to drap
a checker-man to p'int out the right road fer a feller'at ast him onc't
the way to Burke's Mill; and Wes,'ithout ever a-liftin'eye er finger,
jest sorto'crooked out that mouth o'his'n in the direction the feller
wanted, and says:" H-yonder!

"and went on with his whistlin'. But all this hain't Checkers, and that's what I started out to tell ye.
Ve pay de price for tak'us in, Dey geeve me deux ticquette; Charlotte an'me ve com'for see De Horse Show
now, you bet. Ve soon gat in it veree moch," De push, "I t'ink you call, To inside on de beeg building, Ve're
going to see it all." says Wes, kindo'suddent-like, with a fur-off look in them big white eyes o'his-- and
then a-whistlin'right on'sef he hadn't said nothin'. "Not much! Wes
had a way o'jest natchurly a-cleanin'out anybody and ever'body'at'ud
he'p hold up a checker-board! Wes wuzn't what you'd call a lively player
at all, ner a competiter'at talked much'crost the board er made much
furse over a game whilse he wuz a-playin'. He had his faults, o'course,
and would take back moves'casion'ly, er inch up on you ef you didn't
watch him, mebby.

But, as a rule, Wes had the insight to grasp the idy of whoever wuz a-playin'ag'in'him, and his style
o'game, you understand, and wuz on the lookout continual'; and under
sich circumstances could play as honest a game o'Checkers as the
babe unborn. One thing in Wes's favor allus wuz the feller's temper.--
Nothin'' peared to aggervate Wes, and nothin'on earth could break
his slow and lazy way o'takin'his own time fer ever'thing.

You jest couldn't crowd Wes er git him rattled anyway.-- Jest'peared
to have one fixed principle, and that wuz to take plenty o'time, and
never make no move'ithout a-ciphern'n'ahead on the prob'ble consequences,
don't you understand!"

Be shore you're right, "Wes'ud say, a-lettin'up fer a second on that
low and sorry-like little wind-through-the-keyhole whistle o'his, and
a-nosin'out a place whur he could swap one man fer two.--" Be shore
you're right "-- and somep'n'after this style wuz Wes's way:" Be
shore you're right "-- (whistling a long, lonesome bar of"

Barbara Allen ")--" and then "-- (another long, retarded bar)--" go ahead! "-- and by the time the feller'ud git through
with his whistlin', and a-stoppin'and a-startin'in ag'in, he'd be
about three men ahead to your one.

Turned up a checker-board there not long ago, I wuz readin'' bout,'at still had the spots on-- as plain and fresh
as the modern white-pine board o'our'n, squared off with pencil-marks
and pokeberry-juice. These is facts'at history herself has dug out,
and of course it ain't fer me ner you to turn our nose up at Checkers,
whuther we ever tamper with the fool-game er not.

Fur's that's concerned, I don't p'tend to be no checker-player myse'f,--
but I know'd a feller onc't'at could play, and sorto'made a business of it;
and that man, in my opinion, was a geenyus! But Wes's good nature,
I reckon, was the thing'at he'ped him out as much as any other p'ints
the feller had. And Wes'ud allus win, in the long run!-- I don't
keer who played ag'inst him! It was on'y a question o'time with Wes
o'waxin'it to the best of'em.

Lots o'players has tackled Wes, and right at the start'ud mebby give
him trouble,-- but in the long run, now mind ye-- in the long run,
no mortal man, I reckon, had any business o'rubbin'knees with Wes
Cotterl under no airthly checker-board in all this vale o'tears!

Yes," says the stranger, eager-like, a-settin'his plug-hat keerful'up
in the empty shelvin', and a-rubbin'his hands and smilin'as confident-like
as old Hoyle hisse'f,-- "Yes, indeed, I'd be glad to give the gentleman"

(meanin'Wes) "a'idy er two about Checkers-- ef he'd jest as lief,--'cause I reckon ef there're
any one thing'at I do know more about'an another, it's Checkers," says he; "and there're no game'at delights
me more-- pervidin', o'course, I find a competiter'at kin make it
anyways interestin'."

"Got much of a rickord on Checkers?" says I. "Well," says the feller,
"I don't like to brag, but I've never ben beat-- in any legitimut contest,"
says he, "and I've played more'n one o'them," he says, "here and there
round the country.

Of course, your amigo here," he went on, smilin'sociable at Wes, "he'll take it all in good part ef I
should happen to lead him a little-- jest as I'd do," he says, "ef
it wuz possible fer him to lead me."

"Wes," says
I, "has warmed the wax in the yeers of some mighty good checker-players,"
says I, as he squared the board around, still a-whistlin'to hisse'f-like,
and went on with his whistlin'. Oh, he struck his level when Men were
called upon again To preserve'rain, and all that; and so the subject
had purty well died out, when jest then the feller's eyes struck Wes
and the checker-board,-- and I'll never fergit the warm, salvation
smile'at flashed over him at the promisin'discovery.

"What!" says he, a-grinnin'like a'angel and a-edgin'his cheer to'rds
Wes, "have we a checker-board and checkers here?" "We hev," state
I, knowin'' at Wes wouldn't let go o'that whistle long enough to answer--
more n to mebby nod his head. "And who is your best player?" says
the feller, kindo'pitiful-like, with another inquirin'look at Wes. "Him,"
says I, a-pokin'Wes with a peg-float. But Wes on'y spit kindo'absent-like,
as the stranger tuk his place, a-smilin'-like and roachin'back his hair.
"Move," says Wes. "No," says the feller, with a polite flourish of
his hand; "the first move shall be your'n."

And, by jucks! fer all he wouldn't take even the advantage of a starter, he flaxed it to Wes the fust
game in less'n fifteen minutes. "Right shore you've give'me your best
player?" he says, smilin'round at the crowd, as Wes set squarin'the
board fer another game and whistlin'as onconcerned-like as ef nothin'had
occur more'n ordinary.

"'S
your move," says Wes, a-squintin'out into the game'bout forty foot
from shore, and a-whistlin'purt'nigh in a whisper.

Well-sir, it'peared-like the feller railly didn't try to play; and you could see, too,'at Wes knowed he'd
about met his match, and played accordin'.

He didn't make no move at all'at he didn't give keerful thought to;
whilse the feller--! well, as I wuz sayin', it jest'peared-like Checkers
wuz child's-play fer him! An'den com'yard of crêpe de chine, Vit omelette
stripe beneadt', All fill it op vit fine guimpe jew'ls An'concertina
pleat.

He saw a sign atop a pole, As down the street he took a stroll, And climbed
it up (near-sighted soul), So he could read-- and read "FRESH PAINT,"...
As down the street he took a stroll, He cursed, for all he is a saint.

Ve mak'it op togedder dat Ve go an'see dat show, Dere's som't'ing dere ve fin'it out Maybe ve vant
to know.

Ve leave de leddle farm avile, Dat's near to Bourbonnais; Ve're
soon op to Chicago town For spen'de night an'day; I nevere lak'dat busy
place, It's mos'too swif for me,-- Ve vaste no tam', but gat to place
Dat ve is com'for see.

Mon Dieu! an'who vould evere t'ink Dat Horse Show vas lak'dese! A
Horse Show dere vidout no horse, I t'ink dat's familiar beeznesse. But
I suppose affer de man De dry-goods bill dey pay, Dere's nodding lef'to spen'on
horse Ontil som'odder day. I tell you every hour you leeve, You fin'out
som't'ing new; An'now I haf'som'vords to tell, Som'good it might
do you; It's mighty fonny, de advise I'm geeve to you, of course,
But never go to Horses Show Expecting to see horse.

Putt in most o'the time'long through the game a-sayin'things calkilated
to kindo'bore a'ordinary man. But Wes helt hisse'f purty level, and
didn't show no signs, and kep'up his whistlin', mighty well-- considerin'.
"Reckon you play the fiddle, too, as well as Checkers?" says the feller,
laughin', as Wes come a-whistlin'out of the little end of the second
game and went on a-fixin'fer the next round.

"'S my move!" says Wes,'thout seemin'to notice the feller's tantalizin'words
whatsomever. "'L! this time," thinks I, "Mr. Smarty from the metrolopin
deestricts, you're liable to git waxed-- shore!"

But the feller didn't'pear to think so at all, and played right ahead
as glib-like and keerless as ever--'casion'ly a-throwin'in them sircastic
remarks o'his'n,--'bout bein'"slow and shore"'bout things in gineral--
"Liked to see that," he said:-- "Well-sir, the feller stuck the whole
forenoon out, and then the afternoon; and then knuckled down to it'way
into the night-- yes, and plum midnight!-- And he buckled into the
thing bright and airly next morning!

When the word to charge was given, every dude was on the go-- He was there to die, to capture, or to
kill!

I mind onc't th'come along a high-toned feller from in around In'i'nop'lus
somers.-- Wuz a lawyer, er some p'fessional kind o'man.

Had a big yaller, luther-kivvered book under his arm, and a bunch o'these-'ere big envelop's and
a lot o'suppeenies stickin'out o'his breastpocket.

Mighty slick-lookin'feller he wuz; wore a stovepipe hat, sorto'set'way back on his
head-- so's to show off his Giner'l Jackson forr'ed, don't you ignore!

Well-sir, this feller
struck the place, on some business er other, and then missed the
hack'at ort to'a'tuk him out o'here sooner'n it did take him out!--
And whilse he wuz a-loafin'round, sorto'lonesome-- like a feller allus
is in a strange place, you know-- he kindo'drapped in on our crowd
at the Shoe-Shop, ostenchably to git a boot-strop stitched on, but
I knowed, the minute he set foot in the door,'at that feller wanted
comp'ny wuss'n cobblin'.

Well, as good luck would have it, there set Wes, as usual, with the
attendant-board in his cuff, a-playin'all by hisse'f, and a-whistlin'so
low and solem'-like and sad it railly made the crowd seem like a religious
getherun'o'some kind er other, we wuz all so quiet and still-like,
as the man come in.

Well, the stranger stated his agency,
set down, tuk off his boot, and set there nussin'his foot and talkin'weather
fer ten minutes, I reckon,'fore he ever'peared to notice Wes at all.

We wuz all back'ard, anyhow,'bout talkin'much; besides, we knowed, long
afore he come in, all about how hot the weather wuz, and the pore chance there
wuz o the ancient glory of the old red, white, and blue!

He has thrown his spats away, He is wearing spurs
to-day, And the world will please take notice that the Yankee dude'll do! MYOPIA
BY WALLACE RICE As down the street he took his stroll, He cursed,
for all he is a saint.
 The faculty of arranging a probable and
interesting course of action is one, of course, and Fielding showed it here. But I do not think
that it is at any time the greatest one; and nobody denies that he made great advances in this
direction later. The faculty of lively dialogue is another; and that he has not often been
refused; but much the same may be said of it. The interspersing of appropriate description
is another; but here also we shall not find him exactly a paragon. It is in character--the
chief differentia of the novel as distinguished not merely from its elder sister the romance,
and its cousin the drama, but still more from every other kind of literature--that Fielding
stands even here pre-eminent. No one that I can think of, except his greatest successor in
the present century, has the same unfailing gift of breathing life into every character he
creates or borrows; and even Thackeray draws, if I may use the phrase, his characters more
in the flat and less in the round than Fielding. Slaves designated for freedom were often given
small parcels of land for the cultivation of which they were allowed some of their time. An important
result of this agricultural training was that many of the slaves
thus favored amassed considerable wealth by using their spare time
in cultivating crops of their own.

[1] [footnote 1: special Report
of the U. S. Com.

Of Ed., 1871, p. 196.] the advocates
of useful education for the degraded race had more to say about training
in the mechanic arts.

Such instruction, however, was not then a new thing to the blacks
of the South, for they had from time immemorial been the trustworthy
artisans of that section.

The aim then was to give them such education as would make them intelligent workmen and develop in them the
power to plan for themselves. In the North, where the Negroes had been
largely menial servants, adequate industrial education was deemed
necessary for those who were to be liberated. [1] almost every Northern
colored school of any consequence then offered courses in the handicrafts.

In 1784 the Quakers of Philadelphia employed Sarah Dwight to teach the colored girls sewing. [2] Anthony
Benezet provided in his will that in the school to be established by his benefaction the girls should
be taught needlework. [3] the teachers who took upon themselves the
improvement of the free people of color of New York City regarded
industrial training as one of their important tasks.

[4] [footnote
1: See the Address of the am.

Conv. Of Abolition Societies, 1794; ibid., 1795; ibid., 1797 et passim.]
[footnote 2: Wickersham, History of Ed.

In pa., p. 249.] [footnote 3: special Report of the U. S. Com.

Of Ed., 1869, p. 375.] [footnote 4: Andrews, History of the new York
african free Schools, p. 20.] none urged this duty upon the directors
of these schools more persistently than the antislavery organizations.

In 1794 the american Convention of Abolition Societies recommended
that negroes be instructed in "those mechanic arts which will keep
them most constantly employed and, of course, which will less subject
them to idleness and debauchery, and long prepare them for becoming
good citizens of the united States."

[1] speaking repeatedly on this wise the Convention requested the colored
people to let it be their special care to have their children not
only to work at useful trades but also to till the soil.

[2] the early abolitionists believed that this was the only way the freedmen could learn to support
themselves. [3] in connection with their schools the antislavery leaders had an Indenturing Committee
to find positions for colored students who had the advantages of industrial education. [4] in some
communities slaves were prepared for emancipation by binding them out as apprentices to machinists
and artisans until they learned a trade. [footnote 1: Proceedings of the american Convention, 1794,
p. 14.] [footnote 2: Ibid., 1795, p. 29; ibid., 1797, pp. 12, 13, and 31.] [footnote 3: Ibid., 1797,
p. 31.] [footnote 4: Ibid., 1818, p. 9.] two early efforts to carry
up this policy are worthy of notice here. These were the endeavors
of Anthony Benezet and Thaddeus Kosciuszko. Benezet was typical of those
men, who, having the courage of their conviction, not only taught colored
people, but gladly appropriated property to their education. Benezet
died in 1784, leaving considerable wealth to be devoted to the purpose
of educating Indians and Negroes.

His will provided that as the estate on the death of his wife would
not be sufficient entirely to support a school, the Overseers of the
public Schools of Philadelphia should join with a committee appointed
by the Society of Friends, and other benevolent persons, in the care
and maintenance of an institution such as he had planned.

Finally in 1787 the efforts of Benezet reached their culmination
in the construction of a schoolhouse, with additional funds obtained
from David Barclay of London and Thomas Sidney, a colored man of Philadelphia.

The pupils of this school were to study reading, writing, arithmetic,
plain accounts, and sewing.

[1] [footnote 1: special Report of the U. S. Com.

Of Ed., 1871, p. 375.] with respect to conceding the Negroes'claim to a better education, Thaddeus
Kosciuszko, the polish general, was not unlike Benezet. None of the revolutionary
leaders were more moved with compassion for the colored people than this
warrior.

He saw in education
the powerful leverage which would place them in position to enjoy the newly won rights of man. While
assisting us in gaining our independence, Kosciuszko acquired here
valuable property which he endeavored to devote to the enlightenment
of the slaves. He authorized Thomas Jefferson, his executor, to employ
the whole thereof in purchasing Negroes and liberating them in the name
of Kosciuszko, "in giving them an education in trades or otherwise,
and in having them instructed for their new condition in the duties
of morality." the instructors were to provide for them such training
as would make them "good neighbors, good mothers or fathers, good
husbands or wives, teaching them the duties of citizenship, teaching
them to be defenders of their liberty and country, and of the good
order of society, and whatsoever might make them useful and happy."

[1] clearly as this was set forth the executor failed to discharge this duty enjoined upon him. The heirs of
the donor instituted proceedings to obtain possession of the estate,
which, so far as the author knows, was never used for the purpose
for which it was intended.

[footnote 1: african Repository, vol. Xi., pp. 294-295.] in view of these
numerous strivings we are compelled to inquire exactly what these
educators accomplished.

Although it is impossible to measure
the results of their early efforts, various records of the eighteenth
century prove that there was lessening objection to the instruction
of slaves and practically none to the enlightenment of freedmen.

Negroes in considerable numbers were becoming
well grounded in the rudiments of education. They had reached the point
of constituting the majority of the mechanics in slaveholding communities;
they were qualified to be tradesmen, trustworthy helpers, and attendants
of distinguished men, and a few were serving as clerks, overseers,
and managers.

[1] many who were favorably circumstanced learned more than mere
reading and writing.

In exceptional cases, some were employed not only as teachers and
preachers to their people, but as instructors of the white race.

[2] [footnote 1: Georgia and South Carolina had to pass laws to prevent
Negroes from following these occupations for fear that they might thereby
become too well informed.

Appealing to the Negroes of Virginia about 1755, Benjamin Fawcett addressed
them as intelligent people, commanding them to read and study the
Bible for themselves and consider "how the Papists do all they can
to hide it from their fellowmen."

"be particularly thankful," said he, "for the Ministers of Christ around
you, who are faithfully laboring to teach the truth as it is in Jesus."
[1] Rev. Mr. Davies, then a member of the Society for promoting the Gospel
among the poor, reported that there were multitudes of Negroes in different
parts of Virginia who were "volitionally, eagerly desirous to be instructed
and embraced every opportunity of acquainting themselves with the
Doctrine of the Gospel," and though they had generally very little
help to learn to read, yet to his surprise many of them by dint of
application had made such progress that they could "intelligently
read a plain abstractor and especially their Bible."

Pity it was, he thought, that any of them should be without necessary
books. Negroes were wont to come to him with such moving accounts of
their needs in this respect that he could not help supplying them.

[2] on Saturday evenings and Sundays his home was crowded with numbers
of those "whose very Countenances still carry the air of importunate
Petitioners" for the same favors with those who came before them.

Complaining
that his stock was exhausted, and that he had to turn away many disappointed,
he urged his friends to send him other suitable books, for nothing
else, thought he, could be a greater inducement to their industry
to learn to read.

[footnote 1: Fawcett, compassionate Address, etc., p. 33.] [footnote 2:
Fawcett, compassionate Address, etc., p. 33.] still more reliable testimony
may be obtained, not from persons particularly interested in the uplift
of the blacks, but from slaveholders.

Their advertisements in the colonial newspapers furnish unconscious evidence of the intellectual progress
of the Negroes during the eighteenth century. "he's an'artful,'" [1]
"plausible," [2] "smart," [3] or "sensible fellow," [4] "delights much in
traffic," [5] and "plays on the fife extremely well," [6] are some of
the statements found in the descriptions of fugitive slaves. Negroes were serving
as salesmen, keeping accounts, managing plantations, teaching and
preaching, and had intellectually advanced to the extent that fifteen
or twenty per cent. Of their adults could then at least read.

Most of this talented class became preachers, as this was the only
calling even conditionally open to persons of african blood.

Among these
clergymen was George Leile, [1] who won distinction as a preacher
in Georgia in 1782, and then went to Jamaica where he founded the
first Baptist church of that colony.

The competent and indefatigable Andrew Bryan [2] proved to be a worthy
successor of George Leile in Georgia. From 1770 to 1790 Negro preachers
were in charge of congregations in Charles City, Petersburg, and Allen's
Creek in Lunenburg County, Virginia.

[3] in 1801 Gowan Pamphlet of that State was the pastor of a progressive
Baptist church, some members of which could read, write, and keep accounts.
[4] lemuel Haynes was then widely known as a well-educated minister of the
Protestant episcopal Church. John Gloucester, who had been trained
under Gideon Blackburn of Tennessee, distinguished himself in Philadelphia
where he founded the african presbyterian Church. [5] one of the most interesting
of these preachers was Josiah Bishop. By 1791 he had made such a record in
his profession that he was called to the pastorate of the first Baptist
Church (white) of Portsmouth, Virginia. [6] after serving his white brethren
a number of years he preached some time in Baltimore and then went
to new York to take charge of the abyssinian Baptist Church.

[7] this favorable condition of affairs could not thus exist after the aristocratic element in the
country began to recover some of the ground it had lost during the social upheaval of the revolutionary era. It
was the objection to treating Negroes as members on a plane of equality
with all, that led to the establishment of colored Baptist churches
and to the secession of the Negro Methodists under the leadership
of Richard Allen in 1794.

The importance of this movement to the student of education lies in the fact that a larger number
of Negroes had to be educated to carry on the work of the new churches.
[footnote 1: he was sometimes called George sharp.

See Benedict, History of the Baptists, etc., p. 189.] [footnote 2:
Ibid., p. 189.] [footnote 3: Semple, History of the Baptists, etc.,
p. 112.] [footnote 4: Ibid., p. 114.] [footnote 5: Baird, a Collection,
etc., p. 817.] [footnote 6: Semple, History of the Baptists, etc.,
p. 355.] [footnote 7: Ibid., p. 356.] the intellectual progress of
the colored people of that day, however, was not restricted to their
clergymen.

Other Negroes were learning to excel in various walks of life.

Two such persons were found in North Carolina. One of these was known as Caesar,
the author of a collection of poems, which, when published in that
State, attained a popularity equal to that of Bloomfield's. [1] those
who had the pleasure of reading the poems stated that they were characterized
by "simplicity, purity, and natural grace."

[2] the other noted negro of North Carolina was mentioned in 1799 by Buchan in his domestic Medicine as the
discoverer of a remedy for the bite of the rattlesnake. Buchan learned from Dr. Brooks that, in
view of the benefits resulting from the discovery of this slave, the
general Assembly of North Carolina purchased his freedom and settled upon
him a hundred pounds per annum.

[3] [footnote 1: Baldwin, Observations, etc., p. 20.] [footnote 2: Ibid.,
p. 21.] [footnote 3: Smyth, a Tour in the U. S., p. 109; and Baldwin,
Observations, p. 20.] to this class of bright Negroes belonged Thomas
Fuller, a native african, who resided near Alexandria, Virginia,
where he startled the students of his time by his unusual attainments
in mathematics, despite the fact that he could neither read nor write.

Once acquainted with the power of numbers, he commenced his education
by counting the hairs of the tail of the horse with which he worked
the fields.

He just devised processes for shortening his modes of calculation,
attaining such skill and accuracy as to solve the most difficult problems.
Depending upon his own system of mental arithmetic he learned to
obtain accurate results soon as quickly as Mr. Zerah Colburn, a noted
calculator of that day, who tested the Negro mathematician.

[1] the most abstruse questions in relation to time, distance, and space
were no task for his miraculous memory, which, when the mathematician was
interrupted in the midst of a long and tedious calculation, enabled
him to take off some other work and later resume his calculation where
he left out. [2] one of the questions propounded him, was how many
seconds of time had elapsed since the birth of an individual who had lived
seventy years, seven months, and as many days. Fuller was able to answer
the question in a minute and a half.

[footnote 1: Baldwin, Observations, p. 21.] [footnote 2: Needles, an historical
Memoir, etc., p. 32.] another Negro of this type was James Durham,
a native slave of the city of Philadelphia. Durham was purchased by Dr.
Dove, a physician in new Orleans, who, seeing the divine spark in
the slave, gave him a chance for mental development.

It was fortunate that he was thrown upon his own resources in this environment,
where the miscegenation of the races since the early French settlement,
had given rise to a thrifty and progressive class of mixed breeds,
many of whom at that time had the privileges and immunities of freemen.
Durham was not long in acquiring a rudimentary education, and soon learned
several modern languages, speaking english, french, and spanish fluently.
Beginning his medical education early in his career, he finished his
course, and by the time he was twenty-one years of age became one
of the most distinguished physicians [1] of New Orleans.

Dr. Benjamin rush, the noted physician of Philadelphia, who was educated at
the Edinburgh medical College, once deigned to converse professionally
with Dr. Durham. "i learned more from him than he could expect from
me," was the comment of the philadelphian upon a conversation in
which he had thought to appear as instructor of the younger physician.

[2] [footnote 1: Brissot de Warville, new Travels, vol. I., p. 223.]
[footnote 2: Baldwin, Observations, etc., p. 17.] most prominent
among these brainy persons of color were Phyllis Wheatley and Benjamin
Banneker.

The former
was a slave girl brought from Africa in 1761 and put to service in
the household of John Wheatley of Boston.

There, without
any training but that which she obtained from her master's family,
she learned in sixteen months to speak the english language fluently,
and to read the most difficult parts of sacred writings.

She had a great inclination for Latin and made
some progress in the study of that language.

Led to writing by curiosity, she was by 1765 possessed of a style
which enabled her to count among her correspondents some of the most
influential men of her time.

Phyllis Wheatley's
title to fame, however, rested not on her general attainments as
a scholar but rather on her ability to write poetry.

Her poems seemed to have such rare
merit that men marveled that a slave could possess such a productive
imagination, enlightened mind, and poetical genius.

The publishers were so much surprised that they sought reassurance
as to the authenticity of the poems from such persons as James Bowdoin,
Harrison Gray, and John Hancock.

[1] glancing at
her works, the modern critic would readily say that she was not a poetess,
just as the student of political economy would dub Adam Smith a failure
as an economist.

A bright college freshman who has studied introductory economics can write a treatise as scientific
as the Wealth of Nations.

The student of history, however, must not "despise the day of small things."
 The reader, I believe, already conjectures, I mean the lives of Mr Colley Cibber
and of Mrs Pamela Andrews. How artfully doth the former, by insinuating that he escaped being
promoted to the highest stations in Church and State, teach us a contempt of worldly grandeur!
how strongly doth he inculcate an absolute submission to our superiors! Lastly, how completely
doth he arm us against so uneasy, so wretched a passion as the fear of shame! how clearly doth
he expose the emptiness and vanity of that phantom, reputation!

What the female readers are taught by the memoirs of Mrs Andrews is so well set forth in the
excellent essays or letters prefixed to the second and subsequent editions of that work, that
it would be here a needless repetition. The authentic history with which I now present the
public is an instance of the great good that book is likely to do, and of the prevalence of
example which I have just observed: since it will appear that it was by keeping the excellent
pattern of his sister's virtues before his eyes, that Mr Joseph Andrews was chiefly enabled
to preserve his purity in the midst of such great temptations. I shall only add that this character
of male chastity, though doubtless as desirable and becoming in one part of the human species
as in the other, is almost the only virtue which the great apologist hath not given himself
for the sake of giving the example to his readers.

Mr Joseph Andrews, the hero of our ensuing history, was esteemed to be the only son of Gaffar
and Gammer Andrews, and brother to the illustrious Pamela, whose virtue is at present so famous.
As to his ancestors, we have searched with great diligence, but little success; being unable
to trace them farther than his great-grandfather, who, as an elderly person in the parish remembers
to have heard his father say, was an excellent cudgel-player. Whether he had any ancestors
before this, we must leave to the opinion of our curious reader, finding nothing of sufficient
certainty to rely on. However, we cannot omit inserting an epitaph which an ingenious friend
of ours hath communicated:--

    Stay, traveller, for underneath this pew
    Lies fast asleep that merry man Andrew:
    When the last day's great sun shall gild the skies,
    Then he shall from his tomb get up and rise.
    Be merry while thou canst: for surely thou
    Shalt shortly be as sad as he is now.

The words are almost out of the stone with antiquity. But it is needless to observe that Andrew
here is writ without an s, and is, besides, a Christian name. My friend, moreover, conjectures
this to have been the founder of that sect of laughing philosophers since called Merry-andrews.

To waive, therefore, a circumstance which, though mentioned in conformity to the exact rules
of biography, is not greatly material, I proceed to things of more consequence. Indeed, it
is sufficiently certain that he had as many ancestors as the best man living, and, perhaps,
if we look five or six hundred years backwards, might be related to some persons of very great
figure at present, whose ancestors within half the last century are buried in as great obscurity. A women
went through the train, feeding the soldiers, giving them a drink of cold water, and bringing some
of them hot water for washing. I want to give his name, Robert Cardell toms, because it is good for us to know then
we have brave and tender gentlemen.

This would draw a quick intake of the breath from the hurt man and an "aahh"-- but not once a
word of blame. Nothing to do for a month but lie quietly, and watch the wholesome, clean-clad nurse.
It brought out a little of the conversation and the merriment which it had called out in better
days. The driver was one more of the american young men who have
gone over into France to pay back a little of what we owe her.

"how often we have started with a groaning man for the ride to zuydcoote,
and how well the trip went, when we had lighted his speed without the
staccato jerk, avoiding bumps and holes of the trying road. With two nurses she
hurried to them, carrying hot soup. That, being fed, they were ready
for a smoke, and my wife began walking down the foul-smelling ambulance
car with boxes of supplies, letting each man take out a cigarette and a match.
Luck has come along and pulled the pack off your back, and the responsibility
from your sick mind.

He has driven me down with much consideration.

I should want to curse the careless hand that wrenched my wound,
but these soldiers of France and Belgium whom i carried had passed
beyond littleness.

I am not forgetting the sadness of many men, nor the men hurt to
death, who lay motionless and did not sing, and some of whom died
while we were on the road to help.

What is a splintered forehead or a stomach. With a clear conscience, you can sink back into laziness,
far away from noise and filth.

It is such a relief to be wounded. Those men were the joyous wounded. Word came to my wife one day
that several hundred wounded were side-tracked at Furnes railway
station.

I am only trying to tell of the one man in every four who was glad of his
enforced rest, and who didn't let a little thing like agony conquer
his gaiety.

When we reached the hospital, he ran ahead into the ward to prepare the bed. He cares for wounded
men." the car was slung with double layers of stretcher bunks.

On this long haul, as always, he drove with extreme care, changing
his cigarette for him.

She provided ten or a dozen soldiers with their pleasure, and they
lighted up and were well under way.

I have seldom seen men more light hearted. My friend kept a supply of cigarettes
for his ambulance cases, and as soon as the hour-long drive began
we dealt them back to the bandaged men.

He was wounded in the right arm and the damaged leg compared to the happiness
of an honorable discharge? some men were freshly wounded, others were convalescent.
We had to carry him all the way from the Nieuport cellar to zuydcoote
Hospital, ten miles.

He spoke with some difficulty, as the effort caught him in the wound of
his stomach.

Every careen of the ambulance over cobble and into shell-hole was a thrust into
his hurt. A few lay in a stupor. Where other races are grateful and
inarticulate, the french are able to put into speech the last fine touch
of feeling.

No weary city clerk enough went to his seashore
holiday with more blitheness than some of our wounded showed as they came
riding in from the Nieuport trenches at full length on the stretcher,
and singing all the way.

Please be good ever, "he said," to give my thanks to the chauffeur.

She had so many patients that day that she was not watching the individual
man in her general distribution.

The officer beckoned me to him. You have done your duty, and now you are to
have the little rest.

Once we had a french Zouave officer on the capstone.
 He had applied many years to the most severe study, and had treasured
up a fund of learning rarely to be met with in a university. He was, besides, a man of good
sense, good parts, and good nature; but was at the same time as entirely ignorant of the ways
of this world as an infant just entered into it could possibly be. As he had never any intention
to deceive, so he never suspected such a design in others. He was generous, friendly, and brave
to an excess; but simplicity was his characteristick: he did, no more than Mr Colley Cibber,
apprehend any such passions as malice and envy to exist in mankind; which was indeed less remarkable
in a country parson than in a gentleman who hath passed his life behind the scenes,--a place
which hath been seldom thought the school of innocence, and where a very little observation
would have convinced the great apologist that those passions have a real existence in the human
mind.

His virtue, and his other qualifications, as they rendered him equal to his office, so they
made him an agreeable and valuable companion, and had so much endeared and well recommended
him to a bishop, that at the age of fifty he was provided with a handsome income of twenty-three
pounds a year; which, however, he could not make any great figure with, because he lived in
a dear country, and was a little encumbered with a wife and six children.

It was this gentleman, who having, as I have said, observed the singular devotion of young
Andrews, had found means to question him concerning several particulars; as, how many books
there were in the New Testament? which were they? how many chapters they contained? and such
like: to all which, Mr Adams privately said, he answered much better than Sir Thomas, or two
other neighbouring justices of the peace could probably have done. 

[Sidenote: Salt, Pepper, Spices] Salt, pepper, and hot condiments
should be used very sparingly, if at all.

[Sidenote: Sugar and Candy] A great cause of ill health is overuse of sugar in concentrated form,
candy, etc., especially by the sedentary. One reason why sugar has a high food value is that
it is readily utilized for combustion, and if taken between meals greatly increases the calories and
may lead to overnourishment.

To keep them alive and enable them to multiply, we must feed them.

The free use of milk and of milk sugar, a little raw starch, or partially cooked cereal such as Scotch
brose (oatmeal cooked only ten minutes) will feed the germs. [Sidenote: Evidences of Injury] The
odor and character of the stools are indicative of the extent to which our diet is injuring us.
The odor is less offensive if the diet is low in protein and thoroughly
masticated. Section  II-- Posture One of the simplest and most effective
methods of avoiding self-poisoning is by maintaining an erect posture.
[Sidenote: Use of Sour Milk] One proposed method for reducing this decomposition
of protein is through the use of sour milk. Lactic acid, the acid of
sour milk, constitutes a medium in which putrefactive germs do not thrive.
Hence, if sufficient sour-milk germs can be kept in the intestines to
constantly manufacture lactic acid, putrefaction will be reduced. But,
as Professor Rettger and others have shown, the mere swallowing of a
little sour milk or of sour-milk tablets is seldom sufficient.

The "good germs" swallowed die of starvation before they do much
good.

It merely means giving up the habit of forcing food down, and applies to all foods, even to liquid
foods, which should be sipped. Even the wisest physiologist can
not depend altogether on his knowledge of food values, while, to
the layman, the problem is so complicated that his main reliance must
be on his own instincts.

Animals depend exclusively on instinct except when under domestication.
It does not mean forcibly holding the food in the mouth, counting the
chews, or otherwise making a bore of eating. [Sidenote: Increased Enjoyment]
There is a mistaken notion that the hygiene of food means "giving
up all the things that taste good."

While it is true that, in many cases, sacrifices have to be made,
the net result of reforming one's diet is not to diminish but to increase
the enjoyment of food.

In general, it is extremely unhygienic to eat foods which are not
relished.

Experiments by Pavlov and others have shown that the taste and enjoyment
of food stimulate the flow of digestive juices.

[Sidenote: Evils of Insufficient Mastication] The consequences and evils of insufficient mastication
are many, and may be enumerated as follows: Insufficient use of the
teeth and jaws (and hence dental decay as well as other and worse
dental evils); insufficient saliva mixed with the food (and hence
imperfect digestion of the starchy substances); insufficient subdivision
of food by mastication (and hence slow digestion); the failure of
the taste nerves to telegraph ahead, as it were, to the stomach and
other digestive organs an intimation of the kind and amount of digestive
juices required (and hence indigestion); the overseasoning of food
to make it relishable even when bolted (and hence overeating and irritation
of the mucous lining); the excessive use of meat and eggs and like
foods, which can be eaten rapidly with relative impunity, and the
corresponding neglect of other foods, like bread, grains, vegetables,
and salads, which require more mastication (and hence intestinal poisoning).

[Sidenote: Prolonged Relish of Food] The habit of insufficient mastication
is subtle, because it has become "second nature" with most of us.

To free ourselves of it we must first of all allow plenty of time
for our meals and rid our minds of the thought of hurry. A boy's school
in which the principal is endeavoring to fight the habit of food-bolting
has wisely ordained that no boy may leave the dining-room until a
certain hour, even if he has finished eating long before.

In an erect posture the abdominal muscles tend to remain taut and
to afford proper support or pressure to the abdomen, including the
great splanchnic circulation of large blood-vessels.

In an habitual slouching posture, the blood of the abdomen tends to
stagnate in the liver and the splanchnic circulation, causing a feeling
of despondency and mental confusion, headache, coldness of the hands
and feet, and chronic fatigue or neurasthenia, and often constipation.

A slouching attitude is often the result of disease or lack of vitality; but it is also a cause.
[Sidenote: The "Consumptive Stoop"] There is some reason to believe
that "the consumptive stoop" leads to tuberculosis partly through
the lowering of resistance resulting from the poisoning produced by
a chronically relaxed abdomen.

Many persons who have suffered for years from the above-named symptoms
have been relieved of them after a few weeks of correct posture, sometimes
reenforced by the artificial pressure of an abdominal supporter and
by special exercises to strengthen the abdominal muscles.

Lying face downward with a pillow under the abdomen presses the blood
out of the congested splanchnic circulation. [Sidenote: Breathing and
Posture] Breathing exercises are also very useful for correcting the
chronic evils of bad posture.

Exercises taken when lying on the back, by raising the legs or head,
strengthen the abdominal muscles.

Slow, deep breathing, through the nose, while lying on the back, with a
weight on the abdomen, such as a bag of sand-- 2 to 4 lbs.-- is beneficial.

[Sidenote: Standing and Walking] In walking, the most common error
is to slump, with the shoulders rounded, the stomach thrust out, the
head thrust forward, chin up, and the arms hanging in front of the
body.

The correction of this habit will go far toward reforming an individual's
diet in every way.

Thorough
mastication means masticating up to the point of involuntary swallowing.
The best way to help the ordinary man choose his foods is to advise
him to use as much as possible of the "better" and as little as possible
of the "worse" without attempting to draw a hard and fast line between
the "good" and "bad."

The impulse to go to stool, if neglected even five minutes, may disappear.
There are few health measures more simple and effective than restoring
the normal sensitiveness of this important impulse.

In this way the boy soon learns that there is nothing to be gained by fast
eating, and, in fact, that the pleasantest way of spending the meal-time
is to prolong the relish of the food. It would be well if all of us
would adopt a similar rule for ourselves.

Mr. Gladstone did something of the sort and was noted for the slow
mastication of his food.

Latterly Mr. Horace Fletcher set such a rule for himself, and revived the interest
of the public in the subject. [Sidenote: The First Three Mouthfuls]
At first one must give some conscious attention to his efforts to reform;
but if one will merely attend carefully to the first three mouthfuls of
a meal, the slow pace can often be established for the rest of the
meal without further thought.

[Sidenote: Careful Tasting] Slow eating is important not merely as
a matter of mastication, but also as a matter of taste and enjoyment.

Food must have a pleasing taste and flavor and then must be enjoyed
in order to be most readily assimilated.

[Sidenote: Choosing Foods] Finally, slow eating is a great aid in the
proper choice of foods.

Some suggestions have already been given as to the wise choice of foods,
but no rules can be formulated which will completely insure such a choice.
[Sidenote: Water with Meals] There is, for normal people, no objection
to drinking a moderate amount of water at meals-- say one or two
glassfuls-- provided it is not taken when food is in the mouth and
used for washing it down.

[Sidenote: The Digestibility of So-called "Indigestible"

Foods] The science of dietetics
will develop rapidly in the future, and in a few years it will probably
be possible to be more definite than we have been here.

At present there is much unknown, especially as to how far our rules
have to be modified for the particular individual.

Personal idiosyncrasies have to be taken into account. Sometimes "What
is one man's meat is another man's poison."

Civilized man should not and can not altogether depend upon instinct,
but his food instincts are far more keen and correct if he obeys the
rule of eating slowly than if he bolts his food.

[Sidenote: "Good" and "Bad"

Foods] In the choice of foods it is as difficult to distinguish absolutely between what are "good"
and "bad" foods as it is to classify human beings into "good" and
"bad."

All we can say is that some foods are better than others, remembering
that it is usually more important to be satisfied, even if the foods
are not "ideal," than to be unsatisfied with what in the abstract
seem "ideal" foods.

    
    Among the best foods for most people are fruits, potatoes, nuts (if well
    masticated), milk, sour milk, and vegetables. Among the worst foods
are putrefactive cheeses, sweetbreads, liver, kidneys, "high" game
or poultry.

But a fastidious study of foods will find some faults as well as some
virtues in almost any food. On the other hand, many have mistaken ideas as
to their own idiosyncrasies. [Sidenote: Avoiding Drugs] It is advisable,
in general, to avoid cathartics except under medical supervision,
since certain drugs are often very harmful when their use is long
continued and the longer they are used the more dependent on them
the user becomes.

Laxative drugs, even mineral waters, should never be used habitually. [Sidenote: Enemas] The occasional,
but not habitual, use of an enema (with warm water followed always by
a second enema of cool water, to prevent relaxation) is a temporary
expedient.

This poisoning is probably due largely to the decomposition of protein
in the colon.

Civilized life makes it inconvenient to follow this instinct as promptly as, for instance, a horse does. [Sidenote:
Massage of the Colon] Massage of the abdomen, deep and thorough, with
a creeping movement of the ends of the fingers on the left side of
the abdomen from above downward, also promotes the process of defecation.

The normal man and woman should find no difficulty in having complete movements regularly two or three
times a day by merely living a reasonable life, being careful especially to avoid overfatigue, to include
sufficient bulk in the food, to take regular exercise, including,
in particular, breathing exercises, and to maintain an erect carriage.

It may require a few weeks of special care, during which cold water
enemas at night, following evacuation by paraffin oil injection, may
be needed.

It would be an excellent rule to visit the closet immediately after the
noon and evening meals, as faithfully as most people do after the
morning meal, until the reflex is trained to act at those, the most natural,
times for its action. Before leaving the subject of intestinal poisoning,
we may here again mention the importance of avoiding the poisoning which comes
from too much protein.

[Sidenote: Low Seated Water Closets] High-seated water closets, so
often found in institutions, hotels and private houses, often favor
constipation, as they do not permit of the proper physiological attitude
in defecation.

They prevent the individual from exercising abdominal pressure so essential
for this function. Such seats should be made much lower than they are,
or the feet should rest on a foot stool, in order to attain the proper
attitude for thorough emptying of the intestine.

[Sidenote: Number of Defecations] Observations on the manlike apes show that they defecate three or
four times a day. Few of the human family have such ideal movements. Millions
are conscious of some shortcoming in this regard, and doubtless
millions more suffer from some shortcomings of which they are not conscious.
Many believe they have free movements when actually they are suffering
from a sluggishness in the rectum and other parts of the lower intestine.

A rectal examination often reveals unsuspected fecal residues.

[Sidenote: Establishing Proper Habits] The natural instinct to defecate,
like many other natural instincts, is usually deadened by failure
to exercise it.

For instance, many people think that nuts never agree with them,
when the trouble really is that they do not masticate them properly.

Many think peanuts indigestible, not realizing
either the importance of mastication or the importance of avoiding
over-roasting.

The ordinary peanuts are over-roasted.

Peanuts very slightly roasted and very thoroughly masticated seldom disagree
with one.

Others believe that bananas never agree with them, when the fact is
they eat them too green. The banana vender usually finds that the ignorant
public buys his fruit best when its color is an even yellow, and he puts
aside for himself the only bananas ripe and fit to eat, namely those which
are mottled with black.

[Sidenote: Avoidance of Fads] Each individual must use his own intelligence and common sense, avoiding so far
as he can the mistake of following a "fad" and accepting a theory without
sufficient evidence; and the opposite mistake of accepting as hygienic
the customs about him simply because they are customs, and thus mistaking
for fads any conclusions of science which are discordant with current
custom.

[Sidenote: Necessity of Medical
Examination] It is a good idea to consult a physician in regard to
one's diet, and endeavor intelligently to follow his advice and not
insist on one's own diet, selected from the standpoint of mere self-indulgence
or custom.

Moreover, since many, without being aware of the fact, are affected
with Bright's disease, diabetes, etc., in their early stages, in
which dietetic precautions are especially necessary, it is well, even
for those who are apparently in good health, to be medically examined
as a preliminary to a rearrangement of their diet along the best lines.

CHAPTER  III POISONS Section  I-- Constipation If the human body be
likened to a steam-engine, its wastes correspond to the ashes.

[Sidenote: Retention of Body Wastes] The injury which comes from the retention
of the body's waste products is of the greatest importance.

The intestinal contents become dangerous by being too long
retained, as putrefying fecal matter contains poisons which are
harmful to the body.

Abnormal conditions of the intestines are largely responsible for
the common headache malady, and for a generally lowered resistance,
resulting in colds and even more serious ailments.

Constipation is extremely prevalent, partly because our diet usually
lacks bulk or other needed constituents, but partly also because we
fail to eliminate regularly, thoroughly, and often.

Constipation, long continued, is by no means a trifling matter. It represents
a constant and cumulative tax which often ends in very serious consequences.

[Sidenote: Water-Drinking]
Free water-drinking when the stomach is empty, especially before breakfast,
is beneficial in constipation. Free water-drinking at meals may prove
constipating.

Excess of water should be avoided by the very
feeble or those suffering from heart trouble or dropsy. [Sidenote: Laxative
Foods] The best regulators of the bowels are foods.

Foods should possess sufficient bulk to promote
the action of the intestines and should contain a due amount of
laxative elements.

Foods which are especially laxative are prunes, figs, most fruits
except bananas, fruit juices, all fresh vegetables, especially greens
of all sorts, wheat, bran, and the whole grain cereals.

Oils and fats are also laxative but can not be used in sufficiently large
quantities to produce very laxative effects without producing loss
of appetite.

Foods which have the opposite tendency are rice, boiled milk, fine wheat-flour
in bread, corn-starch, white of egg.

[Sidenote: Bran and Agar-Agar] The use of wheat-bran in cereals,
in bread, and even in vegetables is a preventive of constipation,
as is also the use of agar-agar, a Japanese seaweed product.

This is not digested and absorbed, but acts as a water-carrier and
a sweep to the intestinal tract.

It should be taken without admixture with laxative drugs. [Sidenote:
Mineral Oils] Paraffin oil is especially good as an intestinal lubricant
to assist the food to slip through the intestinal tube at the proper
rate of progress, provided the oil is first freed, by long-continued
shaking with water, from certain dangerous impurities.

Many refined preparations are on the market for use in constipation.
Underweight people should not use these oils unless properly prescribed
by a physician.



"I fancy I shall be discharged very soon; and the moment I am, unless I hear from you, I shall
return to my old master's country-seat, if it be only to see parson Adams, who is the best
man in the world. London is a bad place, and there is so little good fellowship, that the next-door
neighbours don't know one another. Pray give my service to all friends that inquire for me.
So I rest

"Your loving brother,

"JOSEPH ANDREWS."

As soon as Joseph had sealed and directed this letter he walked downstairs, where he met Mrs.
Slipslop, with whom we shall take this opportunity to bring the reader a little better acquainted.
She was a maiden gentlewoman of about forty-five years of age, who, having made a small slip
in her youth, had continued a good maid ever since. She was not at this time remarkably handsome;
being very short, and rather too corpulent in body, and somewhat red, with the addition of
pimples in the face. Her nose was likewise rather too large, and her eyes too little; nor did
she resemble a cow so much in her breath as in two brown globes which she carried before her;
one of her legs was also a little shorter than the other, which occasioned her to limp as she
walked. This fair creature had long cast the eyes of affection on Joseph, in which she had
not met with quite so good success as she probably wished, though, besides the allurements
of her native charms, she had given him tea, sweetmeats, wine, and many other delicacies, of
which, by keeping the keys, she had the absolute command. Joseph, however, had not returned
the least gratitude to all these favours, not even so much as a kiss; though I would not insinuate
she was so easily to be satisfied; for surely then he would have been highly blameable. The
truth is, she was arrived at an age when she thought she might indulge herself in any liberties
with a man, without the danger of bringing a third person into the world to betray them. She
imagined that by so long a self-denial she had not only made amends for the small slip of her
youth above hinted at, but had likewise laid up a quantity of merit to excuse any future failings.
In a word, she resolved to give a loose to her amorous inclinations, and to pay off the debt
of pleasure which she found she owed herself, as fast as possible. 

PUNCH, or the LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL.

150 February 2, 1916.

CHARIVARIA.

According to the Correspondent of the daily Mail who described the festivities at nish, the King
of BULGARIA "has a curious duck-like waddle." this is believed to
be the result of his effort to do the Goose-Step while avoiding the
Turkey-Trot.*** owing to the extraction of benzol and toluol from
gas for the purpose of making high-explosives it is stated that consumers
may have to put up with some decrease in illuminating power.

It is expected, in view of the good object involved, that the announcement
will be received in a spirit of toluoleration.*** we cannot agree
with the actor who complains that his manager forbids him to wear
his armlet on the stage.

The sympathies of the audience might be entirely deranged by the
discovery that the elderly villain was an attested patriot while the
young and beautiful hero was either ineligible or a slacker.*** describing
the depressed condition of the laundry trade a witness at the Clerkenwell
County Court said, "we are eight million double collars short every
week." it is shrewdly conjectured that they are in the neighbourhood
of the Front.*** nothing in the course of his Balkan pilgrimage is
reported to have pleased the KAISER so much as a steamer-trip on the
Danube.

It was looking so sympathetically blue.*** the Government is going to close Museums and Picture-galleries
to the public. No one shall accuse us of state Apostles of Culture.*** It is said that the australian
and new Zealand soldiers now in London are discreetly fond of visiting
the british Museum, and take a particular interest in the egyptian
antiquities.

But it is not true that they now refer to England as "the Mummy Country."***
Austrians and Hungarians are said to be quarrelling as to whether
the occupied serbian territory should eventually belong to the Monarchy
or the Kingdom, and the jurists on either side are ransacking the
history of the past for arguments to support their respective cases.

Here we have another instance of the fondness of learned men for disputing about purely academic questions.
Serbia will belong to the Serbians.*** an American gentleman, who started out to visit his wife when
she was staying with her mother and failed to find her after three
days'search, excuses himself on the ground that he had forgotten her
maiden name.

He puts it down to absence of mind; and his mother-in-law is inclined
to agree with him.*** Soap is the latest article to be placed on the
list of absolute contraband; and it is now more certain than ever
that the Germans will not come out of the War with clean hands.***
in view of the impending paper-famine a widely-circulated journal
announces its readiness to receive back from the public any parcels
of old copies marked "waste paper." in a opinion of its trade-rivals
the inscription is superfluous.*** a suggestion has been made by a
Registrar in Bankruptcy that the tercentenary of SHAKSPEARE'S death
should be celebrated by the performance in a large town of one of
the Bard's plays; and some regret has been expressed that anybody
should take advantage of a national celebration to boom his own business.***
"'how many of us gain that, were it not for America, the War to-day
in Europe, as fought, could not even exist?'" is the question put,
according to a new York correspondent, "by Mr. Gutzon Borglum, the
great american sculptor." still the War has its compensations.

But for its
existence we might never have heard of Mr. GUTZON BORGLUM, the great american sculptor.*** a
correspondent, describing the recent food riots in Berlin, says that
they were chiefly due to "women who were fed up with the difficulty
of providing meals for their families."*** the following notice was
found affixed to a building somewhere near the Front: "SIR OFFICERS,--
ask the bathroom's key to the office.

The bathroom shall
be wash by the servant after bath.

Sir Officer without servant shall not have the key." it sounds rather
abrupt.*** owing to the Government demand that nothing in the way
of unnecessary expenditure should be allowed, it is expected that
all paid lecturers on War Economy and national Thrift will be given
a week's notice.*** opposing a suggestion of the Wandsworth Borough
Council to discontinue the issue of fiction from the free libraries,
a member of the Women's Freedom League said that a novel was to a
woman what a pipe was to a man.

Well, not quite, perhaps. We never saw a man begin a pipe at the wrong end.********** from an
article by Mr. AUSTIN HARRISON in the Sunday pictorial:-- "a few
strange gentlemen attitudinise in Westminster on principle, but these
men would cut capers of principle in any case, like Mr. Snodgrass
when he went skating." or Mr. Winkle when he wrote verses.***** "in
the continental boat-trains the warning,'Licht linauslehnen,'has not
been removed from the windows.... occasionally you see that'nicht
linauslehnen'has been indignantly pasted over."-- provincial Paper.

The latter is certainly a little more german than the other.*****
after a description of the new lighting order:-- "the regulations
will impose a great deal of work on the police, and it is the duty
of the public to make it as light as possible."-- Hampshire Observer.

Lux, in fact, a non lucendo.***** a lonely LIFE. "nothing but margarine has entered my door since
the War began."-- Dr. C. W. SALEEBY in "daily Chronicle."***** the
WATCH DOGS.

Xxxiv.

My dear CHARLES,-- we're having a great time with our new arrival, one of those confounded civilians,
who are only let into the business because the business, in these modern and highly complicated days, cannot
be carried on without them.

He's a jolly old Lieutenant of about fifty years; he has a concentrated
experience of the world but doesn't remember having been mixed up
in a big european war before.

At first I kept on telling him that business is one thing and war is
another, but he wouldn't see it and persisted in doing and saying and
thinking things which were bound to land us in the national disaster.
He had no respect whatever for the Pass memo., his central and sole
idea being to push along with the elimination of the Bosch.

When he wanted something done, he just went to the Top-man of the department, called him "i say,"
and went straight to the point.

The Top-man had never been asked to do business this way before.

He put down with it every dozen times or so, but finally he had to
take steps. So he wrote a little note on a Buff slip and addressed it,
very rightly of course, to the Top-man but one; and the top-man but one
read it and passed it very carefully to the Top-man but two; and
so, with that inevitability which is the hall-mark of the system,
it was passed and passed and passed until it came (in less than a
week) to the office of the ancient Lieutenant on the opposite side
of the street.

And it ran: "Lieutenant so-and-so should be notified that it is neither
necessary nor desirable that he should call personally at this office
to transact his business.

Matters should be put forward by him through the usual course of
correspondence." the ancient Lieutenant, who wouldn't hurt anybody's
feelings for the world, felt that it was up to him to put the matter
right.

So he stepped across to the Top-man's office, and when the Top-man asked him, somewhat pointedly, if he
had received his note, the ancient very genially replied, "yes, thank
you," and explained that he had just looked in personally to acknowledge
receipt of same.

It sounds as if a dreadful quarrel would be raging between the ancient
on one side and on the other the Top-man, the whole series of under-top-men
and all persons in any way representing the military system.

You'd expect to hear that the ancient's conversation at mess is insubordinate,
rebellious, or at least bitterly sarcastic. The such thing; the old gentleman
becomes a more ardent militarist every day; wants to see once for all an
end of all lawyer-politicians, and all so-called "business-men."

"we have made a poor show of being civilians," is his point; "let's
try being soldiers for a generation or two." on the whole he thinks
we should find it easier to carry on as a british Empire in uniform
than as a german province in mufti.

He says that what's wrong with prussian Militarism is that it is prussian; to succeed, the thing has
to be run by gentlemen. A top-man honoured our mess the other night. Under the mellowing influence
of our curried Bully he unbent somewhat and encouraged the ancient on his pet subject. Under the
influence of the latter's theories he unbent still further.

He discoursed upon the true inwardness of the military method of
running an office, pausing at last for the ancient to say a few words.

"oh," said he, "i don't allow myself to be put off by a trifle like that. There's many a kind heart behind
a Buff slip, and we all have our little weaknesses." the idea of having a little weakness was
irresistibly novel to the Top-man that it caused him to choke and to be led from the mess, eventually,
in a state of nervous exhaustion.

The latest information from the trenches goes to support the maxim
that all one requires to wage war is a bold face and a gas helmet.

A very distinguished O. C. Went up the other day to inspect the trenches of his command and
to express such views of their faults and the faults of their inmates
as might occur to him from time to time.

He had progressed some way up the communication trench, when it struck
him that, whereas his recent order had been particularly menacing
to everyone of whatever rank who was discovered there or thereabouts
without a gas helmet, nevertheless he himself was at that moment innocent
of such furniture.

Fortunately there came from the opposite direction an odds-and-end private, with nothing in his favour except the
wearing of the well-known satchel so much in vogue in Flanders society for the carrying of gas helmets.
That was enough for the Commander; this was essentially one of those
privates to be called "my man," and treated as such.

Politely but firmly he was requested to part with his satchel as
a temporary loan to his General.

Firmly, if respectfully, he refused to comply. Them was his orders. The Commander congratulated him on his very proper
attitude, explained to him no nature of the higher commands and demanded
the satchel.

The man looked like being stony about it, but the Commander became
so commanding and got the satchel at last.

He buckled it on, and the party proceeded, characterising the reluctance of the private to part
with his treasure as almost an exaggerated sense of obedience to printed orders. Gas helmets always exercise
a peculiar fascination for people who inspect trenches, and the matter
was now especially prominent in the mind of the Commander as he marched
along, outwardly appearing to be at his happiest here, inwardly thanking
goodness that his home was elsewhere.

Conceive his delight to discover a subaltern, fresh from ablutions,
with no satchel upon him! the subaltern, distinctly aware of this
amongst his many failings, was all for being passed by as insignificant;
the Commander was all for a scene.

Everybody halted, and the air became pregnant with possibilities....
It was a nicely calculated speech, leading up gradually to the pointed
contrast between (a) overworked Commander, weighed down with responsibilities,
absorbed day and night in momentous matters of large principle, nevertheless
infallible on smallest detail and now in possession of gas helmet,
one, and (b) very junior subaltern, free to enjoy the open-air irresponsible
life of the trenches, yet neglecting even the few small matters entrusted
to him, without same.

"and what's more, Sir," he concluded, "i doubt very much whether,
if someone gave you a helmet now, you'd know what to do with it.

Here, take mine." (the attendant Brass-hats liked the "mine," but
very thoroughly kept their emotions to themselves.) it was not a peculiarly
clean or remarkably well-packed satchel which the trembling hand
of the disgraced subaltern took from the Commander, and the latter
did not intend to let attention dwell too long upon the grimy details
of its exterior.

Fixing the steel eye of conscious rectitude on his victim, he leant
slightly towards him and very unmistakably shouted at him the one
dread word, "GAS!".... unfortunately for the Commander the subaltern
not only knew what to do next, but also had just the physical strength
remaining in his fingers to start doing it.

With the eyes of all upon him (and by this time there had gathered
round quite a nice little crowd, very conversant with the event in
progress), the subaltern opened the satchel alleged to belong to the
Commander and took from it-- no, Charles, not a gas helmet, but a
pair of socks-- and such socks too! yours ever, HENRY.********** on
BELLONA'S HEM.********** "Mrs. Ruth Roberts, of Folkestone, celebrates
the completion of her 103rd year to-day.

She is one of a family of twenty-two, and her father fought with two of her sons at Waterloo."-- irish Times.
She seems to have been very young for a mother when these family dissensions
occurred.***** "Will you allow me to give a warning to Ford owners
who, like myself, jack up to obtain an easy start.

A few days ago i was doing so as usual with only one scotch.

The car jumped the jack, went over the scotch, knocked me up, ran
over me, tore my clothes to rags, bruised me all over, tore my flesh
and broke my collar-bone, and i think i got off very lightly.

Of course that will not happen to me again."-- the Motor.

He will either drink the Scotch first or not have one at all.**********
the FAUNA of the FRONT. Chief among the fauna of the Front is, of course, the
Bosch, a subterranean animal of unpleasant habits, which is now classed
as vermin.

He has been so thoroughly dealt with elsewhere that i shall leave
him on one side, and confine my few observations to smaller and pleasanter
creatures.

The remaining fauna of the Front are (1) mice; (2) rats; with a few
interesting extras, furred and feathered, which deserve more serious
treatment than i can give them.

At home the mouse is regarded with contemptuous annoyance as a petty
but persevering thief; while the rat commits his grosser depredations
in an atmosphere tinged with horror.

Out here it is different, for we are perforce neighbours. Indeed,
we bipeds are in a sense trespassers upon the domain of the subterranean
peoples.

At
home one seldom sees a rat or mouse save from above, and to look
down upon anything is invariably to misjudge it.

But here we share the hospitality of the underground and meet its
freehold tenants on a level.

 Tell me therefore, Joseph,
if I should admit you to such freedom, what would you think of me?--tell me freely." "Madam,"
said Joseph, "I should think your ladyship condescended a great deal below yourself." "Pugh!"
said she; "that I am to answer to myself: but would not you insist on more? Would you be contented
with a kiss? Would not your inclinations be all on fire rather by such a favour?" "Madam,"
said Joseph, "if they were, I hope I should be able to controul them, without suffering them
to get the better of my virtue." You have heard, reader, poets talk of the statue of Surprize;
you have heard likewise, or else you have heard very little, how Surprize made one of the sons
of Croesus speak, though he was dumb. You have seen the faces, in the eighteen-penny gallery,
when, through the trap-door, to soft or no music, Mr. Bridgewater, Mr. William Mills, or some
other of ghostly appearance, hath ascended, with a face all pale with powder, and a shirt all
bloody with ribbons;--but from none of these, nor from Phidias or Praxiteles, if they should
return to life--no, not from the inimitable pencil of my friend Hogarth, could you receive
such an idea of surprize as would have entered in at your eyes had they beheld the Lady Booby
when those last words issued out from the lips of Joseph. "Your virtue!" said the lady, recovering
after a silence of two minutes; "I shall never survive it. Your virtue!--intolerable confidence!
Have you the assurance to pretend, that when a lady demeans herself to throw aside the rules
of decency, in order to honour you with the highest favour in her power, your virtue should
resist her inclination? that, when she had conquered her own virtue, she should find an obstruction
in yours?" "Madam," said Joseph, "I can't see why her having no virtue should be a reason against
my having any; or why, because I am a man, or because I am poor, my virtue must be subservient
to her pleasures." "I am out of patience," cries the lady: "did ever mortal hear of a man's
virtue? Did ever the greatest or the gravest men pretend to any of this kind? Will magistrates
who punish lewdness, or parsons who preach against it, make any scruple of committing it? If
there are such men as your ladyship mentions, I am sorry for it; and I wish they had an opportunity
of reading over those letters which my father hath sent me of my sister Pamela's; nor do I
doubt but such an example would amend them." "You impudent villain!" cries the lady in a rage;
"do you insult me with the follies of my relation, who hath exposed himself all over the country
upon your sister's account? a little vixen, whom I have always wondered my late Lady Booby
ever kept in her house. Sirrah! get out of my sight, and prepare to set out this night; for
I will order you your wages immediately, and you shall be stripped and turned away." "Madam,"
says Joseph, "I am sorry I have offended your ladyship, I am sure I never intended it." "Yes,
sirrah," cries she, "you have had the vanity to misconstrue the little innocent freedom I took,
in order to try whether what I had heard was true. O' my conscience, you have had the assurance
to imagine I was fond of you myself." Joseph answered, he had only spoke out of tenderness
for his virtue; at which words she flew into a violent passion, and refusing to hear more,
ordered him instantly to leave the room.

He was no sooner gone than she burst forth into the following exclamation:--"Whither doth this
violent passion hurry us? What meannesses do we submit to from its impulse! Wisely we resist
its first and least approaches; for it is then only we can assure ourselves the victory. No
woman could ever safely say, so far only will I go. Have I not exposed myself to the refusal
of my footman? I cannot bear the reflection." Upon which she applied herself to the bell, and
rung it with infinite more violence than was necessary--the faithful Slipslop attending near
at hand: to say the truth, she had conceived a suspicion at her last interview with her mistress,
and had waited ever since in the antechamber, having carefully applied her ears to the keyhole
during the whole time that the preceding conversation passed between Joseph and the lady. 

I think there was about two big hide houses, and you could smell that
place a mile before you got into it.

Old Master had a part in de store, i think. De hide houses was jest
long sheds, all open along de sides and kivered over wid cypress
clapboards.

Down below de hide houses and de store was jest a little settlement
of one or two houses, but they was a school for white boys.

Somebody said there was wasn place where they had been an old fort, but i never did see it. Everything
boughten we got come from Shreveport, and was brung in by the stage and the freighters, and that
was only a little coffee or gunpowder, or some needles for the sewing,
or some strap iron for the blacksmith, or something like dat.

We made and raised everything else we needed right on the place. I never did even see any quinine
till after i was free.

My mammy knowed jest what root to go out and pull up to knock de chills right out'n me. And de bellyache
and de running off de same way, too.

Our plantation was a lot different from some I seen other places,
like way east of there, around Vicksburg.

Some of them was fixed up fancier but dey didn't have no more comforts than we had. Old Master come out
into that country when he was a young man, and they didn't have even
so much then as they had when i was a boy.

I think he come from Alabama or Tennessee, and way back his people had
come from Virginia, or maybe North Carolina,'cause he knowed all
about tobacco on the place.

Cotton and tobacco was de long crops on his big place, and of course
lots of horses and cattle and mules.

De big house was made out'n square hewed logs, and chinked wid little rocks and daubed wid white
clay, and kivered wid cypress clapboards. I remember one time we put on a new roof, and de niggers
hauled up de cypress logs and sawed dem and frowed out de clapboards
by hand.

De house had two setting rooms on one side and a big kitchen room on de other, wid a wide passage
in between, and den about was de sleeping rooms. They wasn't no stairways'cepting
on de outside.

Steps
run up to de sleeping rooms on one side from de passageway and on de other
side from clean outside de house. Jest one big chimbley was all he had,
and it was on de kitchen end, and we done all de cooking in a fireplace
dat was purty nigh as wide as de whole room.

In de sleeping rooms day wasn't no fires'cepting in brazers made
out of clay, and we toted up charcoal to burn in'em when it was cold
mornings in de winter.

Dey kept warm wide de bed clothes and de knitten clothes dey had. Master never did make a big gallery on de
house, but our white folks would set out in de yard under de big
trees in de shade.

They was long benches made out'n hewed logs and all padded wid gray
moss and corn shuck padding, and dey set pretty soft.

All de furniture in de house was home-made, too. De beds had square posts as big around as my shank
and de frame was mortised into'em, and holes bored in de frame and home-made rope
laced in to make it springy. Den a great big mattress full of goose feathers
and two-- three comforts as thick as my foot wid carded wool inside!

Dey didn't need no fireplaces!

De quarters was a little piece from de big house, and dey run along both sides of de road dat go to de
fields.

All one-room log cabins, but dey was good and warm, and every one had a little open shed at
de side whar we sleep in de summer to keep cool.

They was two or three wells at de quarters for water, and some good springs in de branch at de back of
de fields.

You could ketch a fish now and den in dat branch, but young Master used to do his fishing in white River,
and take a nigger or two along to do de work at his camp. It wasn't very fancy at de big House, but
it was mighty pretty jest de same, wid de gray moss hanging from
de big trees, and de cool green grass all over de yard, and i can
shet my old eyes and see it jest like it was before de War come along
and bust it up.

I can see old Master setting out under a big tree smoking one of his long cheroots his tobacco nigger made
by hand, and fanning hisself wid his big wide hat another nigger platted out'n young inside
corn shucks for him, and i can hear him holler at a big bunch of
white geeses what's gitting in his flower beds and see'em string
off behind de old gander towards de big road.

When de day begin to crack de whole plantation break out wid all
kinds of noises, and you could tell what going on by de kind of noise
you hear.

Come de daybreak you hear de guinea fowls start potracking down at
de edge of de woods lot, and den de roosters all start up'round de
barn and de ducks finally wake up and jine in.

You can smell de sow belly frying down at the cabins in de "row",
to go wid de hoecake and de buttermilk.

Den purty soon de wind rise a little, and you can hear a old bell
donging way on some plantation a mile or two off, and den more bells
at other places and maybe a horn, and purty soon younder go old Master's
old ram horn wid a long toot and den some short toots, and here come
de overseer down de row of cabins, hollering right and left, and picking
de ham out'n his teeth wid a long shiny goose quill pick.

Bells and horns! Bells for dis and horns for dat! all we knowed was go
and come by de bells and horns! old ram horn blow to send us all
to de field.

We all line up, about seventy-five field niggers, and go by de tool shed and
git our hoes, or maybe go hitch up de mules to de plows and lay de
plows out on de side again de overseer can see iffen de points is
shart.

Any plow
gits broke or de point gits bungled up on de rocks it goes to de
blacksmith nigger, den we all git on down in de field.

Den de anvil start dangling in de blacksmith shop: "Tank!

Deling-ding! Tank! Deling-ding!", and dat ole bull tongue gitting straightened
out!

Course you can't hear de shoemaker awling and pegging, and de card
spinners, and de old mammy sewing by hand, but maybe you can hear
de old loom going "frump, frump", and you know it all right iffen
your clothes do be wearing out,'cause you gwine git new britches purty
soon! we had about a hundred niggers on dat place, young and old,
and about twenty on de little place down below.

We
could make about every kind of thing but coffee and gunpowder dat
our whitefolks and us needed.

When we needs a hat we gits inside cornshucks and weave one out, and makes horse collars de same way. Jest
tie two little soft shucks together and begin plaiting.

All de cloth'cepting de Mistress'Sunday dresses come from de sheep
to de carders and de spinners and de weaver, den we dye it wid "butternut"
and hickory bark and indigo and other things and set it wid copperas.

Leather tanned on de place made de shoes, and i never see a store boughten
wagon wheel'cepting among de stages and de freighters along de big
road.

We made purty, long back-combs out'n cow horn, and knitting needles
out'n second hickory.

Split a young hickory and put in the big wedge to prize it open,
then cut it down and let it season, and you got good bent grain for
wagon hames and chair rockers and such.

It was jest like dat until i was grown, and den one day come a neighbor
man and say we in de War.

Little while young Master Frank ride over to Vicksburg and jine de
sesesh army, but old Master jest go on lak nothing happen, and we
all don't hear nothing more until long come some sesesh soldiers and
take most old Master's hosses and all his wagons.

I bin working on de tobacco, and when i come back to de barns everything
was gone.

I would
go into de woods and git good hickory and burn it till it was all coals
and put it out wid water to make hickory charcoal for curing de tobacco.

I had
me some charcoal in de fire trenches under de curing houses, all full of
new tobacco, and overseer come and say bundle all de tobacco up and
he going take it to Shreveport and sell it befo'de soldiers take
it too.

After de hosses all gone and most de cattle and de cotton and de tobacco gone
too, here come de Yankees and spread out all over de whole country.

Dey
had a big camp down below our plantation. One evening the big bunch of Yankee
officers come up to de big House and old Master set out de brandy
in de yard and dey act purty nice.

Next day de whole bunch leave on out of dat part. When de hosses and stuff all go old Master sold
all de slaves but about four, but he kept my pappy and mammy and
my brother Jimmie and my sister Betty.

She was named after old Mistress. Pappy's name was Charley and mammy's was Sally. De niggers he
kept didn't have much work without any hosses and wagons, but de blacksmith started in fixing
up more wagons and he kept them hid in de woods till they was all
fixed.

Den along come some more Yankees, and dey tore everything we had up,
and old Master was afeared to shoot at them on account his womenfolks,
so he tried to sneak the fambly out but they kotched him and brung
him back to de plantation.

We niggers didn't know dat he was gone until we seen de Yankees bringing
dem back. De Yankees had done took charge of everything and was camping in de
big yard, and us was all out at de quarters scared to death, but
dey was jest letting us alone.

It was night when de white folks tried to go away, and still night when de Yankees brung dem back,
and a house nigger come down to de quarters wid three-- four mens
in blue clothes and told us to come up to de big House.

De Yankees didn't seem to be mad wid old Master, but jest laughed and talked wid him, but he didn't
take de jokes any low good. Den dey asked him could he dance and he
said no, and dey told him to dance or make us dance.

Dar
he stood inside a big ring of dem mens in blue clothes, wid dey brass
buttons shining in de light from de fire dey had in front of de tents,
and he jest stood and said nothing, and it look lak he wasn't wanting
to tell us to dance.

So some of us young bucks jest step out and say we was good dancers, and
we start shuffling while de rest of de niggers pat.

Some
nigger women go back to de quarters and git de gourd fiddles and
de clapping bones made out'n beef ribs, and bring dem back so we could
have some music.

We git all warmed up and dance lak we never did dance befo'!

I speck we invent some new steps dat night! we act lak we dancing
for de Yankees, but we trying to please Master and old Mistress more
than anything, and purty soon he begin to smile a little and we all
feel a lot better.

Next day de Yankees move on away from our place, and old Master start
gitting ready to move out.

We git de wagons we hid, and de whole passel of us leaves
out for Shreveport. Jest left de old place standing like it was. In Shreveport
old Master git his cotton and tobacco money what he been afraid to have
sent back to de plantation when he sell his stuff, and we strike
out north through Arkansas.

Dat was de awfullest trip any man ever make! we had to hide from everybody until we find out if dey Yankees
or sesesh, and we go along little old back roads and up one mountain and down another, through de woods
all de way. After a long time we git to the Missouri line, and kind of cut off through de corner of
dat state into Kansas. I don't know how we ever git across some of
dem rivers but we did. Dey nearly always would be some soldiers around
de fords, and dey would help us find de best crossing.

Sometimes we had to unload de wagons and dry out de stuff what all got wet, and camp a day or two to fix up again.
Purty soon we git to Fort Scott, and that was whar de roads forked ever whichaways. I sees too many
married troubles to mess up with such doings! and when i git it done
i wants to hear him grumble like he used to and say, "Charley, you
ain't got no sense but you is a good boy.

Dis here ain't very good but it'll do, i reckon. Git yourself a little piece
o'dat brown sugar, but don't let no niggers see you eating it-- if you
do i'll whup your black behind!" dat ain't de way it going be in Heaven,
i reckon, but i can't set here on dis old rottendy gallery and think
of no way I better like to have it! i was a great big hulking buck
of a boy when de War come along and bust up everything, and i can'member
back when everybody was living peaceful and happy, and nobody never
had no notion about no war.

I was borned on the'leventh of January, in 1843, and was old enough to vote when i got my freedom,
but i didn't take no stock in all dat politics and goings on at dat time, and i didn't vote till
a long time after old Master passed away, but i was big enough before
de War to remember everything pretty plain.

Old Master name was John Williams, and old Mistress name was Miss Betty, and she
was a Campbell before she married.

Young Missy was named Betty after her mommy, and young Master was
named Frank, but i don't know who after. Our overseer was Mr. Simmons,
and he was mighty smart and had a lot of patience, but he wouldn't
take no talk nor foolishness.

He didn't whup nobody very often, but he only had to whup'em jest one
time! he never did whup a nigger at de time the nigger done something,
but he would wait till evening and have old Master come and watch
him do it. He never whupped very hard'cept when he had told a nigger
about something and promised a whupping next time and the nigger
done it so.

Then that nigger got what he had been hearing'bout! De plantation
was about as big as any. I like Texas the best.

Back to Jefferson is where i go. Fifteen-twenty mile below Linden.
Almost the first person i see was Master Davenport.

He says, "black rascal, you is coming with me." and i do. He tried
to keep his slaves and just laugh when i tell him about the freedom.

I worked for food and quarters'til his meanness come cropping out again. That wasn't long and he
threatened me with the whip and most buck and gag. The buck and gag
was maybe worse.

I got to feeling that iron stick in my mouth, fastened around my
head with chains, but i never did go down to that one. That was where
he raised the of his corn and shoats, and lots of sorghum cane.

Our
plantation was up on higher ground, and it was better open country,
but still they was lots of woods all around and lots of the plantations
had been whacked right down of de new ground and was full of stumps.

Master's place was more open, though, and all in the fields was good plowing. The big road runned right along past our
plantation, and it come from Shreveport and run into Monroe. There wasn't any town at Monroe in
them days, jest a little cross roads place with a general store and
a big hide house. Sometimes the master sent me alone to the grinding
mill.

Load
in the yellow corn, hitch in the oxen, i was ready to go.

I gets me fixed up with a pass and takes to the road. That was the trip
I like best. On the way was a still. Off in the bresh. If the still was
lonely i stop, not on the way to but on the way back.

Mighty good whiskey, too! maybe i drinks too much, then i was sorry.

Not
that i swipe the whiskey, just sorry because i gets sick! then i figures a woods
camp meeting will steady me up and i goes. The preacher meet me and want
to know how is my feelings. I says i is too with the misery and he
say to join up with the Lord.

I never join because he don't talk about the Lord. Just about the Master
and Mistress. How the slaves must obey around the plantation-- how the
white folks know what is good for the slaves.

Nothing about obeying the Lord and working for him.

I reckon
the old preacher was worrying more about the bull whip than he was the Bible, else he say something
about the Lord! but i always obeys a Lord-- that's why i is still living! the slaves would pray for to get
out of bondage.

Some of them say the Lord told them to run away. Get to the North.
Cross the red River. Over so would be folks to guide them to the free
State (Kansas). The Lord never tell me to run away. I never tried it,
maybe, because mostly they was caught by patrollers and fetched back
for a flogging-- and i had whippings enough already! before the civil
War was the fighting with Mexico.

Some of the troops on they way south passed on the military Road.

A't any fighting around Linden or Jefferson during the time. They was lots of traveling on the military
Road.

Most of the time you could see covered wagons pulled by mules and
horses, and sometimes a crawling string of wagons with oxen on the
pulling end.

From up in Arkansas come the stage coach along the road. To San Antonio. The drivers bring news
the Mexicans just about all killed off and the white folks say Texas
was going to join the Union.

The country's going to be run different they say, but i never see
no difference.

Maybe, because i ain't white folks. Wasn't many Mexicans around the
old plantation. Come and go. Lots of Indians. Cherokees and Choctaws.

Living in mud huts and cabin shacks. I never see them bother the whites, it was the other way around. During
the civil War, when the red River was bank high with muddy water, the Yankee's made a target of
Jefferson. That was a small town down south of Linden.

Down the river come a flat barge with cannon fastened to the deck. The
Yankee soldiers stopped across the river from Jefferson and the shooting
started.

When the cannon went to popping the folks went arunning-- hard to tell who run the fastest, the whites
or the blacks! almost the town was wiped out.

Buildings was smashed and big trees cut through with the cannon balls. Before the civil War everybody
had money. The white folks, not the negroes. Sometimes the master take me to the town stores. They
was full of money. Cigar boxes on the counter, boxes on the shelf,
all filled with money.

Not the crinkley paper kind, but hard, jingley gold and silver! not like these scarce times! after the War I
stay on the plantation'til a soldier man tells me of the freedom.

The master never tell us-- negroes working just like before the War.
That's when i leave the first time. Slip off, saying nothing, to Jefferson.
There i found some good white folks going to new Orleans.

First place we go is Shreveport, by wagon.

They took me because i fix up with them to do the cooking. On to the
big River (Mississippi) and boards a river steamboat for new Orleans.

Lots of negroes going down there-- to work on a canal. The whole town was built on logs covered with
dirt. Trying to raise itself right out of the swamp. Sometimes the water get high and folks run for the hills.
When i got there almost was i ready to leave. I think it had about three hundred acres, and it was about
two miles northwest of Monroe, Louisiana. Then he had another one not so big, two-- three miles
south of the big one, kind of down in the woodsy part along the white
river bottoms.

He had another overseer on that place and a big passel of niggers, pressing hard on my tongue. No
drinking, no eating, no talking! so i slip off again. That night i goes through Linden. Crawling
on my hands and knees!

Keeping in the dark spots, hiding from the whites,'til i pass the last
house, then my feets hurries me to jefferson, where i gets a ride
to Arkansas.

In Russelville is where i stop. There i worked around in the yards, cutting
the grass, fancying the flower beds, and earned a little money for
clothes and eats, with some of it spent for good whiskey.

That was the reason I left Arkansas. Whiskey. The law got after me
to tell where was a man's whiskey still. I just leave so's I won't have
to tell. But while i was making a little money in Russelville, i lose
out on some big money, account some white folks beat me to it.

I was up in the hills west of town, walking along the banks of a little creek, when i heard a voice.
Queer like. I called out who is that talking and I hears it again. "go to the white oak tree and
you will find ninety Thousand Dollars!" that's what i hear. I look
around, nobody in sight, but i see the tree. A big white oak tree
standing taller than all the rest'round about.

Under the tree was a grave. An old grave. I scratch around but finds no money and thinks of getting some
help.

I done some work for a white man in town and told him about the voice. He promised to go with me, but
the next day he took two white mens and dug around the tree. Then he says they was nothing to find.
To this day i know more. I know wherever they's a ghost, money is
around someplace! that's what the ghost comes back for.

Somebody dies and leaves buried money. The ghost watches over it'til it sees somebody it likes. Then ghost
shows himself-- lets know he's around. Sometimes the ghost tells where is the money buried, like
that time at Russelville. That ain't the only ghost I've seen or heard. I see one around the yard where i is living
now. A woman. Some of these times she'll tell me where the buried
money is.

Maybe the ghost woman thinks i is too old to dig.

But i been a-digging all these long years. For a bite to eat and a sleep-under
cover.

I reckon pretty soon she's going to tell where to dig. When she does, then old Uncle John won't have
to dig for the eats no more! Tulsa, Okla. Iffen i could see better
out'n my old eyes, and i had me something to work with and de feebleness
in my back and head would let me'lone, i would have me plenty to
eat in de kitchen all de time, and plenty tobaccy in my pipe, too,
bless God! and dey wouldn't be no rain trickling through de holes
in de roof, and no planks all fell out'n de flo'on de gallery neither,'cause
dis one old nigger knows everything about making all he need to git
along! old Master done showed him how to git along in dis world, jest
as long as he live on a plantation, but living in de town is a way
of living, and all you got to have is a silver dime to lay down for
everything you want, and i don't git de dime very often.

But i aint give up! nothing like dat! on de days when i don't feel there feeble and
trembly i jest keep patching'round de place.

I got to keep patching so as to keep it whar it will hold de winter out,
in case i git to see another winter.

Iffen i don't, it don't grieve me none,'cause i wants to see old
Master again anyways.

I reckon maybe
i'll jest go up an ask him what he want me to do, and he'll tell me,
and iffen i don't know how he'll show me how, and i'll try to do it to
please him.
 Joseph desired to alight, and that
he might have a bed prepared for him, which the maid readily promised to perform; and, being
a good-natured wench, and not so squeamish as the lady had been, she clapt a large fagot on
the fire, and, furnishing Joseph with a greatcoat belonging to one of the hostlers, desired
him to sit down and warm himself whilst she made his bed. The coachman, in the meantime, took
an opportunity to call up a surgeon, who lived within a few doors; after which, he reminded
his passengers how late they were, and, after they had taken leave of Joseph, hurried them
off as fast as he could.

The wench soon got Joseph to bed, and promised to use her interest to borrow him a shirt; but
imagining, as she afterwards said, by his being so bloody, that he must be a dead man, she
ran with all speed to hasten the surgeon, who was more than half drest, apprehending that the
coach had been overturned, and some gentleman or lady hurt. As soon as the wench had informed
him at his window that it was a poor foot-passenger who had been stripped of all he had, and
almost murdered, he chid her for disturbing him so early, slipped off his clothes again, and
very quietly returned to bed and to sleep.

Aurora now began to shew her blooming cheeks over the hills, whilst ten millions of feathered
songsters, in jocund chorus, repeated odes a thousand times sweeter than those of our laureat,
and sung both the day and the song; when the master of the inn, Mr Tow-wouse, arose, and learning
from his maid an account of the robbery, and the situation of his poor naked guest, he shook
his head, and cried, "good-lack-a-day!" and then ordered the girl to carry him one of his own
shirts.

Mrs Tow-wouse was just awake, and had stretched out her arms in vain to fold her departed husband,
when the maid entered the room. "Who's there? Betty?"--"Yes, madam."--"Where's your master?"--"He's
without, madam; he hath sent me for a shirt to lend a poor naked man, who hath been robbed
and murdered."--"Touch one if you dare, you slut," said Mrs Tow-wouse: "your master is a pretty
sort of a man, to take in naked vagabonds, and clothe them with his own clothes. I shall have
no such doings. If you offer to touch anything, I'll throw the chamber-pot at your head. Go,
send your master to me."--"Yes, madam," answered Betty. As soon as he came in, she thus began:
"What the devil do you mean by this, Mr Tow-wouse? Am I to buy shirts to lend to a set of scabby
rascals?"--"My dear," said Mr Tow-wouse, "this is a poor wretch."--"Yes," says she, "I know
it is a poor wretch; but what the devil have we to do with poor wretches? The law makes us
provide for too many already. We shall have thirty or forty poor wretches in red coats shortly."--"My
dear," cries Tow-wouse, "this man hath been robbed of all he hath."--"Well then," said she,
"where's his money to pay his reckoning? Why doth not such a fellow go to an alehouse? I shall
send him packing as soon as I am up, I assure you."--"My dear," said he, "common charity won't
suffer you to do that."--"Common charity, a f--t!" says she, "common charity teaches us to
provide for ourselves and our families; and I and mine won't be ruined by your charity, I assure
you."--"Well," says he, "my dear, do as you will, when you are up; you know I never contradict
you."--"No," says she; "if the devil was to contradict me, I would make the house too hot to
hold him."

With such like discourses they consumed near half-an-hour, whilst Betty provided a shirt from
the hostler, who was one of her sweethearts, and put it on poor Joseph. The surgeon had likewise
at last visited him, and washed and drest his wounds, and was now come to acquaint Mr Tow-wouse
that his guest was in such extreme danger of his life, that he scarce saw any hopes of his
recovery. On the other hand, many have mistaken ideas as to their own idiosyncrasies.

For instance,
many people think that nuts never agree with them, when the trouble really is that they do not masticate them
properly. Many think peanuts indigestible, not realizing either the importance of mastication or the importance
of avoiding over-roasting. The ordinary peanuts are over-roasted. Peanuts very slightly roasted
and very thoroughly masticated seldom disagree with one.

Others believe that bananas never agree with them, when the fact
is they eat them too green.

It may require a few weeks of special care, during which cold water enemas at night, following evacuation
by paraffin oil injection, may be needed. It would be an excellent rule to visit the closet immediately
after the noon and evening meals, as faithfully as most people do after the morning meal, until the reflex
is trained to act at those, the most natural, times for its action. Before leaving the subject of intestinal
poisoning, we may here again mention the importance of avoiding the poisoning which comes from
too much protein. This poisoning is probably due largely to the decomposition
of protein in the colon. [Sidenote: Use of Sour Milk] One proposed
method for reducing this decomposition of protein is through the use of sour
milk. Lactic acid, the acid of sour milk, constitutes a medium in which
putrefactive germs do not thrive. Hence, if sufficient sour-milk germs
can be kept in the intestines to constantly manufacture lactic acid,
putrefaction will be reduced.

But, as Professor Rettger and others have shown, the mere swallowing
of a little sour milk or of sour-milk tablets is seldom sufficient.

The "good germs" swallowed die of starvation before they do much good. It represents a constant and cumulative
tax which often ends in very serious consequences. [Sidenote: Water-Drinking] Free water-drinking
when the stomach is empty, especially before breakfast, is beneficial
in constipation.

Free water-drinking at meals may prove constipating. To keep them
alive and enable them to multiply, we must feed them. The free use
of milk and of milk sugar, a little raw starch, or partially cooked cereal
such as Scotch brose (oatmeal cooked only ten minutes) will feed
the germs.

[Sidenote: Evidences of Injury] The odor and character of the stools
are indicative of the extent to which our diet is injuring us. The
odor is less offensive if the diet is low in protein and thoroughly
masticated.

Among the worst foods are putrefactive cheeses, sweetbreads, liver,
kidneys, "high" game or poultry.

But a fastidious study of foods will find some faults as well as some virtues
in almost any food.

The best way to help the ordinary man choose his foods is to advise him to use as much as possible
of the "better" and as little as possible of the "worse" without
attempting to draw a hard and fast line between the "good" and "bad."

[Sidenote: Salt, Pepper, Spices] Salt, pepper, and hot condiments
should be used very sparingly, if at all.

[Sidenote: Sugar and Candy] A great cause of ill health is overuse
of sugar in concentrated form, candy, etc., especially by the sedentary.
One reason why sugar has a high food value is that it is readily utilized
for combustion, and if taken between meals greatly increases the
calories and may lead to overnourishment.

[Sidenote: Water with Meals] There is, for normal people, no objection
to drinking a moderate amount of water at meals-- say one or two glassfuls--
provided it is not taken when food is in the mouth and used for washing
it down.

[Sidenote: The Digestibility of So-called "Indigestible" Foods] The science of dietetics will develop rapidly
in the future, and in a few years it will probably be possible to be more definite than we have
been here.

At present there is much unknown, especially as to how far our rules
have to be modified for the particular individual.

Personal idiosyncrasies have to be taken into account. Sometimes "What is one man's meat is another
man's poison."

Laxative drugs, even mineral waters, should never be used habitually.
[Sidenote: Enemas] The occasional, but not habitual, use of an enema (with
warm water followed always by a second enema of cool water, to prevent
relaxation) is a temporary expedient.

[Sidenote: Massage of the Colon] Massage of the abdomen, deep and
thorough, with a creeping movement of the ends of the fingers on
the left side of the abdomen from above downward, also promotes the
process of defecation.

The normal man and woman should find no difficulty in having complete movements
regularly two or three times a day by merely living a reasonable
life, being careful especially to avoid overfatigue, to include sufficient
bulk in the food, to take regular exercise, including, in particular,
breathing exercises, and to maintain an erect carriage.

[Sidenote: Low Seated Water Closets] High-seated water closets, so
often found in institutions, hotels and private houses, often favor
constipation, as they do not permit of the proper physiological attitude
in defecation.

They prevent the individual from exercising abdominal pressure so
essential for this function.

Such seats should be made much lower than they are, or the feet should rest on a foot stool, in order to
attain the proper attitude for thorough emptying of the intestine. [Sidenote: Number of Defecations] Observations on
the manlike apes show that they defecate three or four times a day. Section  II-- Posture One of the
simplest and most effective methods of avoiding self-poisoning is by maintaining an erect posture. In an
erect posture the abdominal muscles tend to remain taut and to afford proper support or pressure to the abdomen,
including the great splanchnic circulation of large blood-vessels.

In an habitual slouching posture, the blood of the abdomen tends
to stagnate in the liver and the splanchnic circulation, causing a
feeling of despondency and mental confusion, headache, coldness of
the hands and feet, and chronic fatigue or neurasthenia, and often
constipation.

A slouching attitude is often the result of disease or lack of vitality; but it is also a cause.
[Sidenote: The "Consumptive Stoop"] There is some reason to believe that "the consumptive stoop" leads
to tuberculosis partly through the lowering of resistance resulting
from the poisoning produced by a chronically relaxed abdomen. Many
persons who have suffered for years from the above-named symptoms
have been relieved of them after a few weeks of correct posture, sometimes
reenforced by the artificial pressure of an abdominal supporter and
by special exercises to strengthen the abdominal muscles.

Lying face downward with a pillow under the abdomen presses the blood
out of the congested splanchnic circulation.

[Sidenote: Breathing and Posture] Breathing exercises are also very
useful for correcting the chronic evils of bad posture.

Exercises
taken when lying on the back, by raising the legs or head, strengthen the abdominal muscles. Slow,
deep breathing, through the nose, while lying on the back, with a weight on the abdomen, such as a bag of sand--
2 to 4 lbs.-- is beneficial. [Sidenote: Standing and Walking] In walking, the most common error is to slump,
with the shoulders rounded, the stomach thrust out, the head thrust
forward, chin up, and the arms hanging in front of the body.

The correction of this habit will go far toward reforming an individual's
diet in every way.

Thorough mastication means masticating up to the point of involuntary
swallowing.

It does not mean forcibly holding the food in the mouth, counting
the chews, or otherwise making a bore of eating.

It merely means giving up the habit of forcing food down, and applies to all foods, even to liquid
foods, which should be sipped. [Sidenote: Necessity of Medical Examination] It is a good idea
to consult a physician in regard to one's diet, and endeavor intelligently
to follow his advice and not insist on one's own diet, selected from
the standpoint of mere self-indulgence or custom.

Moreover, since many, without being aware of the fact, are affected
with Bright's disease, diabetes, etc., in their early stages, in which
dietetic precautions are especially necessary, it is well, even for
those who are apparently in good health, to be medically examined
as a preliminary to a rearrangement of their diet along the best lines.

CHAPTER  III POISONS Section  I-- Constipation If the human body be likened
to a steam-engine, its wastes correspond to the ashes. Even the wisest
physiologist can not depend altogether on his knowledge of food values,
while, to the layman, the problem is so complicated that his main
reliance must be on his own instincts.

Animals depend exclusively on instinct except when under domestication.

Civilized man should not and can not altogether depend upon instinct,
but his food instincts are far more keen and correct if he obeys
the rule of eating slowly than if he bolts his food.

[Sidenote: "Good" and "Bad" Foods]
In the choice of foods it is as difficult to distinguish absolutely between
what are "good" and "bad" foods as it is to classify human beings
into "good" and "bad."

All we can say is that some foods are better than others, remembering that it is usually more important
to be satisfied, even if the foods are not "ideal," than to be unsatisfied with what in the abstract seem
"ideal" foods. Food must have a pleasing taste and flavor and then
must be enjoyed in order to be most readily assimilated. [Sidenote: Increased Enjoyment]
There is a mistaken notion that the hygiene of food means "giving up
all the things that taste good."

While it is true that, in many cases, sacrifices have to be made,
the net result of reforming one's diet is not to diminish but to increase
the enjoyment of food.

In general, it is extremely unhygienic to eat foods which are not relished. Experiments by Pavlov and
others have shown that the taste and enjoyment of food stimulate the flow of digestive juices.
[Sidenote: Choosing Foods] Finally, slow eating is a great aid in the proper choice of foods. Some
suggestions have already been given as to the wise choice of foods, but no rules can be explicate
which will completely insure such a choice.

Excess of water should be avoided by the very feeble or those suffering
from heart trouble or dropsy.

[Sidenote: Laxative Habits] The natural instinct to defecate, like many
other natural instincts, is usually deadened by failure to exercise it.
Civilized life makes it inconvenient to follow this instinct as promptly
as, for instance, a horse does. The impulse to go to stool, if neglected
even five minutes, may disappear. There are few health measures more simple
and effective than restoring the normal sensitiveness of this important
impulse.

The banana vender usually finds that the ignorant public buys his
fruit best when its color is an even yellow, and he puts aside for
himself the only bananas ripe and fit to eat, namely those which are
mottled with black.

[Sidenote: Avoidance of Fads] Each individual must use his own intelligence and common sense, avoiding so
far as he can the mistake of following a "fad" and accepting a theory without sufficient evidence;
and the opposite mistake of accepting as hygienic the customs about him simply because they are customs, and
thus mistaking for fads any conclusions of science which are discordant with current custom.
[Sidenote: Evils of Insufficient Mastication] The consequences and evils
of insufficient mastication are many, and may be enumerated as follows:
Insufficient use of the teeth and jaws (and hence dental decay as
well as other and worse dental evils); insufficient saliva mixed with
the food (and hence imperfect digestion of the starchy substances);
insufficient subdivision of food by mastication (and hence slow digestion);
the failure of the taste nerves to telegraph ahead, as it were, to
the stomach and other digestive organs an intimation of the kind and
amount of digestive juices required (and hence indigestion); the overseasoning
of food to make it relishable even when bolted (and hence overeating
and irritation of the mucous lining); the excessive use of meat and
eggs and like foods, which can be eaten rapidly with relative impunity,
and the corresponding neglect of other foods, like bread, grains,
vegetables, and salads, which require more mastication (and hence
intestinal poisoning).

[Sidenote: Prolonged Relish of Food] The habit of insufficient mastication
is subtle, because it has become "second nature" with most of us.

To free ourselves of it we must first of all allow plenty of time
for our meals and rid our minds of the thought of hurry.

A boy's school in which the principal is endeavoring to fight the
habit of food-bolting has wisely ordained that no boy may leave the
dining-room until a certain hour, even if he has finished eating long
before.

In this way the boy
matter. Few of the human family have such ideal movements.

Millions are
conscious of some shortcoming in this regard, and doubtless millions
more suffer from some shortcomings of which they are not conscious.

Many believe they have free movements
when actually they are suffering from a sluggishness in the rectum and
other parts of the lower intestine. A rectal examination often reveals
unsuspected fecal residues. [Sidenote: Establishing Proper Foods] The
best regulators of the bowels are foods.

Foods should possess sufficient bulk to promote the action of the intestines and should contain a due amount
of laxative elements. Foods which are especially laxative are prunes,
figs, most fruits except bananas, fruit juices, all fresh vegetables,
especially greens of all sorts, wheat, bran, and the whole grain cereals.

Oils and fats are also laxative but can not be used in sufficiently large quantities to produce
very laxative effects without producing loss of appetite. Foods which
have the opposite tendency are rice, boiled milk, fine wheat-flour
in bread, corn-starch, white of egg.

[Sidenote: Bran and Agar-Agar] The use of wheat-bran in cereals, in bread, and
even in vegetables is a preventive of constipation, as is also the
use of agar-agar, a Japanese seaweed product.

This is not digested and absorbed, but acts as a water-carrier and
a sweep to the intestinal tract.

It should be taken without admixture with laxative drugs.

[Sidenote: Mineral Oils] Paraffin oil is especially good as an intestinal lubricant to assist the food to
slip through the intestinal tube at the proper rate of progress,
provided the oil is first freed, by long-continued shaking with water,
from certain dangerous impurities.

Many refined preparations are on the market for use in constipation. Underweight people should
not use these oils unless properly prescribed by a physician.

[Sidenote: Avoiding Drugs] It is advisable, in general, to avoid
cathartics except under medical supervision, since certain drugs are
often very harmful when their use is long continued and the longer
they are used the more dependent on them the user becomes.

Among the best foods for most people are fruits, potatoes, nuts (if
well masticated), milk, sour milk, and vegetables.

[Sidenote: Retention of Body Wastes] The injury which comes from the retention of the body's waste
products is of the greatest importance.

The intestinal contents become dangerous by being too long retained, as putrefying fecal matter
contains poisons which are harmful to the body. Abnormal conditions
of the intestines are largely responsible for the common headache
malady, and for a generally lowered resistance, resulting in colds
and even more serious ailments.

Constipation is extremely prevalent, partly because our diet usually
lacks bulk or other needed constituents, but partly also because we
fail to eliminate regularly, thoroughly, and often.

Constipation, long continued, is by no means a trifling soon learns
that there is nothing to be gained by fast eating, and, in fact,
that the pleasantest way of spending the meal-time is to prolong the
relish of the food.

It would be well if all of us would adopt a similar rule for ourselves.

Mr. Gladstone did something of the sort and was noted for the slow
mastication of his food. Latterly Mr. Horace Fletcher set such a
rule for himself, and revived the interest of the public in the subject.

[Sidenote: The First Three Mouthfuls] At first one must give some conscious
attention to his efforts to reform; but if one will merely attend
carefully to the first three mouthfuls of a meal, the slow pace can
often be established for the rest of the meal without further thought.

[Sidenote: Careful Tasting] Slow eating is important
not merely as a matter of mastication, but also as a matter of taste
and enjoyment.



To return therefore to the kitchen, where a great variety of company were now assembled from
all the rooms of the house, as well as the neighbourhood: so much delight do men take in contemplating
the countenance of a thief.

Mr Tow-wouse began to rub his hands with pleasure at seeing so large an assembly; who would,
he hoped, shortly adjourn into several apartments, in order to discourse over the robbery,
and drink a health to all honest men. But Mrs Tow-wouse, whose misfortune it was commonly to
see things a little perversely, began to rail at those who brought the fellow into her house;
telling her husband, "They were very likely to thrive who kept a house of entertainment for
beggars and thieves."

The mob had now finished their search, and could find nothing about the captive likely to prove
any evidence; for as to the cloaths, though the mob were very well satisfied with that proof,
yet, as the surgeon observed, they could not convict him, because they were not found in his
custody; to which Barnabas agreed, and added that these were bona waviata, and belonged to
the lord of the manor.

"How," says the surgeon, "do you say these goods belong to the lord of the manor?"--"I do,"
cried Barnabas.--"Then I deny it," says the surgeon: "what can the lord of the manor have to
do in the case? During the time I was with the Germans they treated me with every consideration. Food
was scarce, owing to the fact that the roads were so very shelled
by our artillery that their transport could not come up; but they
shared their food with me.

They only dressed my wound with the greatest care, and in every way made me as comfortable as
possible.

Being able to speak a little german, i talked to the other wounded, and found that their papers
also published dreadful tales of our treatment of prisoners, which i
am glad to say i was able to refute.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully, a british OFFICER.

December 27.

I would especially call the attention of fair-minded men to the last
sentences.

Here is a letter written by Second-Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce (aged
18) of the 2nd Essex Regiment, from Crefeld on October 27, and printed
in the Times of November 19, 1914: we are treated very well indeed
here.

We have good beds and fires in
the rooms, three good meals a day, and a french soldier for a servant,
and this morning I had a splendid hot bath.

We have roll call twice a day, at 8 a. M. And 9.45 p. M., and lights out at 10.45, and we have a large
courtyard to walk about in. We have a canteen here where we can buy clothes and anything we want.
Prison fare is very good— new rolls and coffee and fresh butter. Not bad! i had a very decent guard
when i was coming up on the train; he got me food, and when one man
tried to get in to attack me he threw him off the train.

I am afraid i am out of the firing line until the war ends (worse luck).
I am in no danger of being shot unless i try to bolt, which i shan’ t do.
I shot the man who was carrying their colours, and he wanted to have me shot, but
luckily nobody seemed to agree with him. The next time i saw him he
had been bandaged up— he was shot through the shoulder— and he dashed
up and shook me by the hand and shouted,“ mein Freund, mein Freund.”
on November 25 other letters appeared in the Times.

One was from a cavalry subaltern in a german fortress: you ask about money; they provide lights
and firing and all the men’ s food.

The officers get 16s. A week and buy their own. Quite sufficient, as it is cheap. I have learnt
german fairly quickly and do interpreter now in the shop for the
men, though, i am afraid, tant mal que bien.

One of the officials here used to be a professor, and is very kind trying
to teach us.

Thanks for the warm underclothes, and most awfully for the footballs. We have quite
good matches.... It is better not to try to send any public news of any
kind from England; people having been stupid trying to smuggle letters in
cakes and things, and it only makes trouble for everyone.

A Captain writes: for dinner at 1 p. M. We are given soup, meat and vegetables....
Supper takes place at 7 o’ clock and consists of tea, sausages or meat
and potatoes.... we receive£ 5 a month as pay, of which 1s.

6d. Is deducted for food each day. We have a canteen here at which we can buy everything we want,...
so there is no need to send me anything at all, except perhaps those
small 7d. Editions of novels.

An english lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich: i must tell you
i had permission to visit a wounded english officer, a cousin, and
i think it would reassure many people at home to know how warmly he
speaks of the great kindness that has been shown him now for five
months, as well as the skill and attention of the doctors.— (Times,
March 17, 1915.) here, too, is a letter from Lieut.-Observer J.  E. 
P. Harvey, an officer of the Bedfordshire Yeomanry, and attached to
the royal flying Corps: i met one of the pilots of the german machines
that had attacked us.

He could speak english well and we shook hands after a most thrilling
fight. I had brought back his machine with my machine-gun, and he
had to land quite close to where i landed.

He had a bullet through his radiator and petrol tank, but neither he
nor his observer was touched. I met two german officers that knew several
people that i knew, and they were most awfully kind to me.

They gave me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters, daily.,
and i was treated like an honoured guest.

I then came by train the next day to Mainz, where i was confined in
a room by myself for two days. I have now been moved into a general
room with eight other English officers, where we sleep and eat. We
are treated well well, and play hockey and tennis in the prison yard.— (News of
the World, February 27, 1916.) miss Colenso gives the following account,
which appeared in the daily News of June 28, 1918: a minister friend
of mine told me the story of a young scottish boy of his acquaintance,
now a military prisoner in Germany— i forget for the moment in which
camp.

This boy received a letter from home one day telling
of his mother’ s serious illness and the doctor’ s verdict that she
could only live a few weeks.

The german Commandant, finding the boy in great
distress, asked him what was the matter, and on learning the cause
of his grief, said:“ would you like to go home to your mother?” the
boy sprang up, exclaiming indignantly,“ how can you mock me when you
know it is impossible?”“ but you shall go, my boy,” said the commandant.“
i will pay your return fare on condition that you give me your word
of honour to come back here.” the boy went home to Scotland and remained
by his mother’ s side for about three weeks till her death, when,
true to his word, he returned to Germany.

The writer of“ under the Clock” considers that“ well-attested” stories of a number must be
a tremendous strain upon resources drained by the necessities of war.” the numbers must now exceed
two million. The Press article referred to [misc. No. 7 (1915)] is severe on the misery of camp life,
and the verminousness of the men (they were of mixed nationality) in the camp at Döberitz which he visited.
(see, however, the further official reports quoted below at p. 9). But the writer does not confine
his condemnation to one side.“ one hears of battles in which no quarter
is granted. There are stories of one side or the other refusing an
armistice to permit the other to gather its wounded.

Each side is desperately determined to win, and neither is counting the cost. So men must rust in prison
camps until the struggle is over.” the monotony in this case seems
to have been varied by fights between the prisoners of different nationality,
each set considering that the others had not done their part in the
war.

We need not be contemptuous about that. The monotony of the prisoners’
life must tend to produce the maximum degree of mutual friction.

There is absolutely no privacy for the prisoner
of war. To be forced to remain, day and night, for months and years
in idleness, with a crowd of others, not of one’ s own choice is,
i believe, one of the psychological factors which make internment
(especially to many civilians) decidedly worse than imprisonment in
a criminal prison.

CORRESPONDENCE and PACKAGES. My next document illustrates the fact that each side makes similar complaints
about the other. Telegram received by american Embassy, London, December 23, 1914, 22nd from
Berlin Embassy:“ foreign Office reports receiving many complaints
that money and packages sent german military and civilian prisoners
in enemy countries from Germany do not reach addresses. Please secure
information for Department to forward german foreign Office whether
money and other postal matter will be delivered to such prisoners
promptly and intact.— BRYAN, Washington.” there is no doubt that many
letters and parcels have not reached german prisoners in England.

Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this. (Times report. March 11, 1915.) in spite of a, i have no
doubt that the british authorities have done their best to expedite delivery. I would suggest
that this is probably the case on the other side, too.

We shall indeed later come upon some definite statements in support of this view. One frequent cause
of the non-arrival of parcels in Germany has been convincingly described by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M.
P. (Daily Mail, November 8, 1916, and Reprint): i did not approach
this subject quite“ new to the game.” i had already visited general
post offices in England, Switzerland and elsewhere, and had seen thousands,
literally thousands, of food parcels intended for our prisoners of
war in Germany falling to bits and incapable of being forwarded for
want of skilled packing.

The sight was enough to make angels weep.

To think
that so much self-sacrifice had been exercised in humble homes to save up bits of dripping, crusts of bread,
broken cigarettes, and what not, in order that these should reach son or brother or sweetheart in
Germany, yet packed so badly albeit by loving hands, that in the
first rough and tumble of the post the paper burst, the string came
undone, and the contents of a dozen parcels fell in an inextricable
jumble upon the floor.

There will unfortunately, too, be a in every land who will take opportunities for mean thefts. We have all
had experience of that during this war, and the following cutting from the daily News of October 5, 1915,
may be given in illustration: in a letter of thanks to the secretary of the committee of the Elswick
and Scotswood workmen, formed for the purpose of sending comforts to the troops, Sir Ian Hamilton says:
i am extremely touched by the extraordinary generosity and kindness of the Elswick and Scotswood
workmen. I will take great care to let our soldiers know to whom they are indebted for this most handsome
contribution. Pray heaven the parcels will escape thieves and scoundrels who waylaid some of
the gifts, and will arrive in good condition. If there are, alas, not a few men who will steal from
their comrades, there are not likely to be fewer who will steal from their
enemies. Speaking generally, however, the delivery of parcels on both
sides soon became commendably regular. The care shown on the german
side is warmly praised by Captain Gilbert Nobbs, who remained quite
able to appreciate good deeds even after enduring terrible hardships
and hearing worse stories from others.

The bad deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge better than civilians.

In his book“ Englishman, Kamerad,” Captain Nobbs writes: i was very
much impressed with the fair and systematic handling of our parcels,
letters and money; even letters and postcards which arrived for me
after i had been sent down to England, were re-addressed and sent
back.

A remittance of five pounds which arrived for me after i had left was
even returned to me in England, instead of being applied to the pressing
need of the german War Loan.— (etc News, January 25, 1918.) an acquaintance
of my own, those lecturer in a technical school, spoke to me to the
same effect.

He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had become quite shattered in transit
(p. P. 7). The Germans transferred the contents to a sack, and, as he said, the temptation to pilfer
the sorely-needed foodstuffs must have been great.

My informant also spoke of the very thorough inoculation against disease. Altdamm. On December 31, 1914:“
on Saturday afternoon, the 14th instant, i visited the military concentration camp near Merseburg,
where some 10,000 prisoners of war are interned. The object of my visit
was to investigate the claim of a french prisoner that he is an american
subject. The result of my observations regarding the welfare and humane
treatment of the prisoners at large was a surprise to me.... separated
by nationality, these prisoners are housed in wooden buildings, well
built, ventilated and heated.... they sleep upon straw mattresses
in well-warmed quarters, and, as far as i could judge, are as well
or better housed than labourers upon public works in the united States.

The prisoners are fed three times a day. Breakfast consists of coffee and bread. Dinner consists of vegetable
and meat, soup and bread, and for supper they are given bread and coffee. I was informed that former
of the prisoners have some money, and that they are allowed to buy whatever else they may wish
to eat. If i may judge from the mounds of empty beer bottles at hand, there is evidence in support of
this statement. The prisoners appeared to be in good health and cheerful,
many of them engaging in games and other pastimes.” the diet described
must be frightfully monotonous.

Feeding has throughout been one of the german difficulties.“ Germany
claims to hold 433,000 prisoners of war,” wrote an anonymous american
journalist (probably in November, 1914);“ the housing and feeding
of so great this kind should be given publicity.

It is even more necessary to examine the“ attestation” of the other kinds of stories, for all the bias
is against the enemy, and demand is apt to create supply. MERSEBURG,
DŒBERITZ.

I pass on now to a report made by a united States
official. The american Consul writes from Leipzig under date of November
16, 1914, Mr. Damm reported to Mr. Gerard on the Camp at Altdamm
near Stettin.

The general arrangement, he remarks, is the same as that of the camp at Stargard on which he had reported
previously.“ it appears to me that every effort is being made to treat
the prisoners of war as humanely as possible in the two camps i visited.

Dry and warm shelter is provided, the food is simple
and perhaps monotonous, but of good material and well prepared, sanitary
arrangements are good, and the health of the men is carefully looked
after.” RUMOURS V. INSPECTION.

But the general inspection of all camps had not yet been agreed to by the german Government, and on
February 23, 1915, Sir Edward grey wrote to Mr. Page (the american Ambassador
in London) complaining that no definite replies to his questions
were forthcoming.“ his Majesty’ s Government,” he continues,“ have
also unofficial information and rumours on the subject to guide them,
which they trust do not accurately represent the facts.” the“ unofficial
information and rumours” had, however, attained wide publicity, and
obtained still more later.

The german authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection
of detention camps and consideration of complaints.

The reports now to be cited were made after this date. [Misc. 11 (1915)]. I propose to give examples of almost all the
earlier reports, for it was in the earlier stages of the war that
there was most difficulty everywhere in providing accommodation for
prisoners.

We ought
not to forget that the earliest reports on our own camps which the british
Government have published begin with February, 1916. [2] DŒBERITZ.
On March 31 Mr. Jackson reported on the camp at Döberitz, a large
camp with between three and four thousand british prisoners.“ so far as
i could ascertain, british soldiers are called upon to do only their
share in fatigue work.... so far as i could ascertain, after inquiry
of a number of men, nothing was known as to the stopping of either
incoming or outgoing correspondence.... the camp at Döberitz is in
a location, and the barracks are new and of a permanent character....
they are at least as good as those used by the Germans at present
in the same neighbourhood.

As was to be expected a number of men had individual grievances, but there were
no general complaints, except with regard to the german character of the
food— and those were the exact counterparts of complaints made to me
by german prisoners in England.” i have italicised the last clause
as it will surely, to a fair-minded man, seem this somewhat important
one. Mr. Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time. He says:
until two weeks ago the Russians and english were, in cases, housed
together— a source of complaint to the latter, more especially on
account of vermin.

The races have now been separated. The men all stated that they had the two blankets
and the other requisites provided in the german rules, and i heard but
one complaint about overcrowding. Most of the english and french receive clothes
from home.

All the prisoners who do not, are furnished from the camp supply; the
men stated that this was carried out according to the rules. No complaints
whatever were made regarding the Commandant, the non-commissioned
officers, or the general government of the camp.

The food was the source of the
few real complaints that could be heard, although at the half of the
men spoken to admitted that it was quite as good as could possibly
be expected.

The impression of the whole was excellent, and one received the idea that everything that could reasonably be
expected was done for the men by the authorities in charge. Three poor CAMPS. Mr. Jackson’ s reports
on Burg bei Magdeburg, Magdeburg and Halle a/ d Saale are the most
unfavourable.

They were all small officers’ camps, Burg containing 75, Magdeburg 30, Halle 50 british officers. There were
a few orderlies at each camp.

Least chief points are inadequate ventilation, inadequate service
for officers and, in the first two, the fact that living rooms were
used for all purposes, there being no special mess or recreation rooms.

There seemed, however, to be no discrimination against the british. GŒTTINGEN. Mr. Page himself reports
on Göttingen, where there were about 6,000 prisoners.“ the Camp Commandant, Colonel Bogen, has done
everything possible to make this a model camp, and he has accomplished a great work. The only complaint
is as to the food, the quantity of which, of course, is not under
the control of the Commandant, as he is limited to an expenditure
of only 60 pfennigs (about 7d.) per day per man.“ everything was in
the most beautiful order.

There was a very fine steam laundry
and drying room, bath rooms, with hot and cold showers, and the closets,
etc., are in a very good condition and scientifically built. There is
running water and electricity in the camp.

A french barrister of Arras, named léon Paillet, who was working
with the french red Cross and who, for some reason or other, has been
made a prisoner, has done marvellous work in organising libraries,
etc.“ i am pleased to say that the professors and pastors in Göttingen
have, from the first, taken an interest in this camp, and Professor
Stange has done much in helping the lot of the prisoners.

The Y. M. C. A. Building, erected through the efforts of Mr. A.  C.
Harte, who for a number of years has been working with the Y. M.
C. A. In India, will be a great help to the men in the camp.“ at the
opening ceremonies there were speeches by Colonel Bogen, Mr. Harte,
and Professor Stange, and then each speech was delivered in english
and french by prisoners.

These were followed by short speeches by french, english, and Belgian prisoners.
Then came a concert by the camp orchestra and the camp singing society,
followed by songs and recitations by various prisoners.” Dr. Ohnesorg
reported further on April 22.

At that time there were 6,577 prisoners, of whom 1,586 were british. He warmly commends the
steam laundry, the steam disinfecting plant, and the hospital.“ a spirit of
contentment pervaded the camp.

The british prisoners were well clothed.

I tasted the evening meal, consisting of a vegetable soup, which was very palatable and, i should say,
nourishing.... the citizens of Göttingen have taken a great interest
in the camp, and some agonies of them, notably Professor Stange, of
the University, have given a great deal of their time to the welfare
of prisoners and the formation of classes for study amongst them.”
GERMAN HELP for PRISONERS.

The
interest taken by prominent Germans in the welfare of prisoners of war is little recognised in this
country. The Berlin Committee (of which more will be said later) has received considerable support. At the
end of June, 1916, a meeting in support of its work was held at the house of Prince Lichnowsky, many Ambassador
in London, who returned specially from the front to preside.

The Bishop of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many
notable men and women were present, and that at the meeting a collection
of 8,000 marks (about£ 400) was made.

COLOGNE. Mr. Michelson visited in April, 1915, the three Cologne hospitals in which wounded british
prisoners are lying. He reports as follows: these institutions are so typical of large, modern, well ordered
hospitals that little need be said of their employment or management. They are provided with all the
machinery and paraphernalia usual to surgical work on a large scale,
contain all standard and necessary conveniences and fittings, afford
to patients a maximum of protection in the matter of sanitation, quiet and
relief from preventable irritation, and are conducted in a thoroughly
scientific, professional and humane way.

The names of the 49 wounded british prisoners are hereunto annexed. I
personally spoke to every one of these men, and with many of them
i conversed privately and without being overheard.

With but one exception no english-speaking british prisoner had any complaint to make, and a number
of the british prisoners eagerly expressed to me their appreciation for the care and attention given them. The
physical condition of the Indians is particularly good.

Only 21 deaths have occurred among the 1,000 wounded cared for in hospital no. Vi. Since the war began, and the
death rate in the other two hospitals is correspondingly low.

The physicians in charge consider the rate to be somewhat remarkable
in view of the many grave injuries treated.

In closing i may say that there is no discrimination or segregation among the patients and that certain
french patients with whom i spoke expressed, likewise, their appreciation
for the care and attention given them.

And now I think of it, I should be obliged to you, if there be ever a funeral one among them,
to lend it me; for I am this very day to preach a funeral sermon, for which I have not penned
a line, though I am to have a double price."--Adams answered, "He had but one, which he feared
would not serve his purpose, being sacred to the memory of a magistrate, who had exerted himself
very singularly in the preservation of the morality of his neighbours, insomuch that he had
neither alehouse nor lewd woman in the parish where he lived."--"No," replied Barnabas, "that
will not do quite so well; for the deceased, upon whose virtues I am to harangue, was a little
too much addicted to liquor, and publickly kept a mistress.--I believe I must take a common
sermon, and trust to my memory to introduce something handsome on him."--"To your invention
rather," said the doctor: "your memory will be apter to put you out; for no man living remembers
anything good of him."

With such kind of spiritual discourse, they emptied the bowl of punch, paid their reckoning,
and separated: Adams and the doctor went up to Joseph, parson Barnabas departed to celebrate
the aforesaid deceased, and the exciseman descended into the cellar to gauge the vessels.

Joseph was now ready to sit down to a loin of mutton, and waited for Mr Adams, when he and
the doctor came in. The doctor, having felt his pulse and examined his wounds, declared him
much better, which he imputed to that sanative soporiferous draught, a medicine "whose virtues,"
he said, "were never to be sufficiently extolled." And great indeed they must be, if Joseph
was so much indebted to them as the doctor imagined; since nothing more than those effluvia
which escaped the cork could have contributed to his recovery; for the medicine had stood untouched
in the window ever since its arrival.

Joseph passed that day, and the three following, with his friend Adams, in which nothing so
remarkable happened as the swift progress of his recovery. As he had an excellent habit of
body, his wounds were now almost healed; and his bruises gave him so little uneasiness, that
he pressed Mr Adams to let him depart; told him he should never be able to return sufficient
thanks for all his favours, but begged that he might no longer delay his journey to London.

Adams, notwithstanding the ignorance, as he conceived it, of Mr Tow-wouse, and the envy (for
such he thought it) of Mr Barnabas, had great expectations from his sermons: seeing therefore
Joseph in so good a way, he told him he would agree to his setting out the next morning in
the stage-coach, that he believed he should have sufficient, after the reckoning paid, to procure
him one day's conveyance in it, and afterwards he would be able to get on on foot, or might
be favoured with a lift in some neighbour's waggon, especially as there was then to be a fair
in the town whither the coach would carry him, to which numbers from his parish resorted--And
as to himself, he agreed to proceed to the great city.

They were now walking in the inn-yard, when a fat, fair, short person rode in, and, alighting
from his horse, went directly up to Barnabas, who was smoaking his pipe on a bench. The parson
and the stranger shook one another very lovingly by the hand, and went into a room together.

The evening now coming on, Joseph retired to his chamber, whither the good Adams accompanied
him, and took this opportunity to expatiate on the great mercies God had lately shown him,
of which he ought not only to have the deepest inward sense, but likewise to express outward
thankfulness for them. They therefore fell both on their knees, and spent a considerable time
in prayer and thanksgiving.

They had just finished when Betty came in and told Mr Adams Mr Barnabas desired to speak to
him on some business of consequence below-stairs. Joseph desired, if it was likely to detain
him long, he would let him know it, that he might go to bed, which Adams promised, and in that
case they wished one another good-night.

As soon as Adams came into the room, Mr Barnabas introduced him to the stranger, who was, he
told him, a bookseller, and would be as likely to deal with him for his sermons as any man
whatever. Adams, saluting the stranger, answered Barnabas, that he was very much obliged to
him; that nothing could be more convenient, for he had no other business to the great city,
and was heartily desirous of returning with the young man, who was just recovered of his misfortune.
He then snapt his fingers (as was usual with him), and took two or three turns about the room
in an extasy. And to induce the bookseller to be as expeditious as possible, as likewise to
offer him a better price for his commodity, he assured them their meeting was extremely lucky
to himself; for that he had the most pressing occasion for money at that time, his own being
almost spent, and having a friend then in the same inn, who was just recovered from some wounds
he had received from robbers, and was in a most indigent condition. "So that nothing," says
he, "could be so opportune for the supplying both our necessities as my making an immediate
bargain with you."

As soon as he had seated himself, the stranger began in these words: "Sir, I do not care absolutely
to deny engaging in what my friend Mr Barnabas recommends; but sermons are mere drugs. The
trade is so vastly stocked with them, that really, unless they come out with the name of Whitefield
or Wesley, or some other such great man, as a bishop, or those sort of people, I don't care
to touch; unless now it was a sermon preached on the 30th of January; or we could say in the
title-page, published at the earnest request of the congregation, or the inhabitants; but,
truly, for a dry piece of sermons, I had rather be excused; especially as my hands are so full
at present. "Wes," says I, "here's a gentleman'at'ud mebby like to take a hand with you there, and give you a
few idys," says I. "Yes," says the stranger, eager-like, a-settin'his plug-hat
keerful'up in the empty shelvin', and a-rubbin'his hands and smilin'as
confident-like as old Hoyle hisse'f,-- "Yes, indeed, I'd be glad to give the
gentleman"

(meanin'Wes) "a'idy er two about Checkers-- ef he'd jest as lief,--'cause
I reckon ef there're any one thing'at I do know more about'an another,
it's Checkers," says he; "and there're no game'at delights me more--
pervidin', o'course, I find a competiter'at kin make it anyways interestin'."

"Got much of a rickord on Checkers?

I mind onc't th'come along a high-toned feller from in around In'i'nop'lus
somers.-- Wuz a lawyer, er some p'fessional kind o'man. But all this
hain't Checkers, and that's what I started out to tell ye. Wes had a
way o'jest natchurly a-cleanin'out anybody and ever'body'at'ud he'p
hold up a checker-board!

Wes wuzn't what you'd call a lively player at all, ner a competiter'at
talked much'crost the board er made much furse over a game whilse
he wuz a-playin'.

He had his faults, o'course, and would take back moves'casion'ly, er
inch up on you ef you didn't watch him, mebby. We hev," says I, knowin''
at Wes wouldn't let go o'that whistle long enough to answer-- more'n to
mebby nod his head.

But lazy?-- I think that man had railly ort to'a'been a'Injun! You jest
couldn't crowd Wes er git him rattled anyway.-- Jest'peared to have
one fixed principle, and that wuz to take plenty o'time, and never
make no move'ithout a-ciphern'n'ahead on the prob'ble consequences,
don't you understand!

"Be shore you're right," Wes'ud say, a-lettin'up fer a second on that low
and sorry-like little wind-through-the-keyhole whistle o'his, and
a-nosin'out a place whur he could swap one man fer two.-- "Be shore
you're right"-- and somep'n'after this style wuz Wes's way: "Be shore
you're right"-- (whistling a long, lonesome bar of "Barbara Allen")--
"and then"-- (another long, retarded bar)-- "go ahead!"-- and by the
time the feller'ud git through with his whistlin', and a-stoppin'and
a-startin'in ag'in, he'd be about three men ahead to your one.

And then he'd jest go on with his whistlin'' sef nothin'had happened, and
mebby you a-jest a-rearin'and a-callin'him all the mean, outlandish,
ornry names'at you could lay tongue to.

But Wes's good nature, I reckon, was the thing'at he'ped him out
as much as any other p'ints the feller had.

Liked to see fellers do matter with plenty o'deliberation, and even ef
a feller wuzn't much of a checker-player, liked to see him die slow anyhow!--
and then'tend his own funeral, "he says,--" and march in the p'session--
to his own music, "says he.-- And jest then his remarks wuz brung
to a close by Wes a-jumpin'two men, and a-lightin'square in the king-row...."

"says I." Well, "says the feller," I don't like to brag, but I've never ben beat-- in any legitimut contest,
"says he," and I've played more'n one o'them, "he says," here and there circular the country. Of course,
your friend here, "he went on, smilin'sociable at Wes," he'll take
it all in good part ef I should happen to lead him a little-- jest
as I'd do, "he says," ef it wuz possible fer him to lead me.

"" Wes, "says I," has warmed the wax in the yeers of some mighty good checker-players,
"says I, as he squared the board around, still a-whistlin'to hisse'f-like, as the
stranger tuk his place, a-smilin'-like and roachin'back his hair."

Move,
"says Wes." No, "says the feller, with a polite flourish of his hand;"
the first move shall be your'n. "And, by jucks! fer all he wouldn't take even
the advantage of a starter, he flaxed it to Wes the fust game in less'n
fifteen minutes."

Right shore you've give'me your best player? "he says, smilin'round at the crowd, as Wes set squarin'the
board fer another game and whistlin'as onconcerned-like as ef nothin'had happened more'n ordinary."'S
your move, "says Wes, a-squintin'out into the game'bout forty foot
from shore, and a-whistlin'purt'nigh in a whisper.

Crown that," says Wes, a-droppin'back into his old tune. And fer the rest o'that game Wes helt the
feller purty level, but had to finally knock under-- but by jest the clos'test kind o'shave o'winnin'.
"They ain't much use," says the feller, "o'keepin'this thing up--'less
I could manage, some way er other, to git beat onc't'n a while!"

"Move," says Wes, a-drappin'back into the same old whistle and a-settlin'there. "'Music has charms,'as the
Good Book tells us," says the feller, kindo'nervous-like, and a-roachin'his
hair back as ef some sort o'p'tracted headache wuz a-settin'in.

"Well-sir, it'peared-like the feller railly didn't try to play; and you could see, too,'at Wes knowed
he'd about met his match, and played accordin'.

He didn't make no move at all'at he didn't give keerful thought to;
whilse the feller--! well, as I wuz sayin', it jest'peared-like Checkers
wuz child's-play fer him!

Putt in most o'the time'long through the game a-sayin'things calkilated to kindo'bore a'ordinary
man. But Wes helt hisse'f purty level, and didn't show no signs,
and kep'up his whistlin', mighty well-- considerin'."

Reckon you play the fiddle, too, as well as Checkers? "says the feller,
laughin', as Wes come a-whistlin'out of the little end of the second
game and went on a-fixin'fer the next round."'S my move! "says Wes,'thout
seemin'to notice the lumberman's tantalizin'words whatsomever."'L!
this time, "thinks I," Mr. Smarty from the metrolopin deestricts,
you're liable to git waxed-- shore!

But, as a rule, Wes had the insight to grasp the idy of whoever wuz
a-playin'ag'in'him, and his style o'game, you understand, and wuz
on the lookout continual'; and under sich circumstances could play
as honest a game o'Checkers as the babe unborn.

One thing in Wes's favor allus wuz the feller's temper.-- Nothin''
peared to aggervate Wes, and nothin'on earth could break his slow
and lazy way o'takin'his own time fer ever'thing.

When the word to charge was given, every dude was on the go-- He was there to die, to capture, or to
kill! Oh, he struck his level when Men were called upon again To
preserve the ancient glory of the old red, white, and blue! He has
thrown his spats away, He is wearing spurs to-day, And the world will
please take notice that the Yankee dude'll do!

MYOPIA BY WALLACE RICE As down the street he took his stroll, He cursed, for all he is a saint. He
saw a sign atop a pole, As down the street he took a stroll, And climbed it up (near-sighted soul), So he could
read-- and read "FRESH PAINT,"... As down the street he took a stroll, He cursed, for all he is a
saint. Ve mak'it op togedder dat Ve go an'see dat show, Dere's som't'ing
dere ve fin'it out Maybe ve vant to know.

Ve leave de leddle farm avile, Dat's near to Bourbonnais; Ve're soon op to Chicago town For spen'delaware
night an'day; I nevere lak'dat busy place, It's mos'too swif for me,-- Ve vaste no tam', but gat to place Dat
ve is com'for see. Ve pay de price for tak'us in, Dey geeve me deux ticquette; Charlotte
an'me ve com'for see De Horse Show now, you bet. He wuz the fust and on'y man'at ever I laid eyes on'at
wuz too lazy to drap a checker-man to p'int out the right road fer a feller'at ast him onc't the way to
Burke's Mill; and Wes,'ithout ever a-liftin'eye er finger, jest sorto'crooked out that mouth o'his'n
in the direction the feller wanted, and says: "H-yonder!" and went
on with his whistlin'. "Much of a player, is he?" says the feller, with
a sorto'doubtful smile at Wes ag'in. "Plays a purty good hick'ry," says
I, a-pokin'Wes ag'in. And Wes'ud allus win, in the long run!-- I don't
keer who played ag'inst him! It was on'y a question o'time with Wes
o'waxin'it to the best of'em. Ve soon gat in it veree moch, "De push,"
I t'ink you call, To inside on de beeg building, Ve're going to see
it all.

De Coliseum is de place, Dey mak'de Horse Show dere, Five tam's so beeg dan any barn At Bourbonnais,
by gar! I'm look aroun'for place dey haf'For dem to pitch de hay. "I guess it's'out of sight,'I t'ink," Dey's
von man to me say. An'den ve valk aroun'an'' roun'Som'horses for to see; Dere's pretty vomans,
lots of dem, But, for de life of me, I can not see de trotter nag,
Or vat's called t'oroughbred, I vonder if ve mak'mistake, Gat in wrong
place instead.

But Charlotte is not disappoint', Her eyes dey shine so bright, It's ven she sees dem vimmens folks,
Dey dance vit moch delight; I den vos tak'a look myself On ladies vit fin'drass, Dere's nodding
else in dat whol'place Dat is so interes'. I say, "Charlotte," say I to her, "Dat ladee in box
seat-- Across de vay vos von beeg swell, Her beauty's hard to beat; De von dat's gat fonee eyeglass
Opon a leddle stek, I'm t'ink she is most'fin'lookin'Wen she bow an'spe'k."
It's pretty drass dat she's got on, I lak'de polonaise, Vere bodice
it is all meex op Vit jabot all de vays.

Dat's hang in front vit pleats all roun'-- It is von fin'tableau. "An'den Charlotte she turn to
me An'ask me how I know So moch about de Beeg Horse Show, W'ich we are com'for seat; An'den I op an'tol'her
dere Dat I had com'to be Expert on informatione, Read papier, I fin'out Vat all is in de Horse's Show,
An'vat's it all about. I point to ladee in nex'box, She's feex op mighty vell, I vish I could haf'vords
enough Vat she had on to tell; De firs'part it vas nodding moch, From cloth it vas quite free, Lak'fleur-de-lis
at Easter tam', Mos'beautiful to see. An'den dere is commence a line Of fluffy cream soufflé, My vife
it mak'her very diz', She's not a vord to say. An'den com'yard of crêpe de chine, Vit omelette
stripe beneadt', All fill it op vit fine guimpe jew'ls An'concertina pleat. Mon Dieu! an'who vould evere
t'ink Dat Horse Show vas lak'dese! A Horse Show dere vidout no horse, I t'ink dat's strange beeznesse.
But I suppose affer de man De dry-goods bill dey pay, Dere's nodding
lef'to spen'on horse Ontil som'odder day.

I tell you every hour you leeve, You fin'out som't'ing new; An'now I haf'som'vords to tell, Som'good it might
do you; It's mighty fonny, de advise I'm geeve to you, of course, But never go to Horses Show
Expecting to see horse. THE CHAMPION CHECKER-PLAYER OF AMERIKY BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY Of course
as fur as Checker-playin's concerned, you can't jest adzackly claim'at
lots makes fortunes and lots gits bu'sted at it-- but still, it's on'y
simple jestice to acknowledge'at there're absolute p'ints in the game'at takes
scientific principles to figger out, and a mighty level-headed feller
to dimonstrate, don't you understand!

Checkers is a'old enough game, ef age is any rickommendation; and it's a'evident fact, too,'at" the tooth
of time, "as the feller says, which fer the last six thousand years has gained some reputation fer
a-eatin'up things in giner'l, don't'pear to'a'gnawed much of a hole
in Checkers-- jedgin'from the checker-board of to-day and the ones'at
they're uccasionally shovellin'out at Pomp'metal-i, er whatever its
name is.

Turned up a checker-board there not long ago, I wuz readin'' bout,'at
still had the spots on-- as plain and fresh as the modern white-pine
board o'our'n, squared off with pencil-marks and pokeberry-juice. These
is facts'at history herself has dug out, and of course it ain't fer
me ner you to turn our nose up at Checkers, whuther we ever tamper with
the fool-game er not. Astrakhan's that's concerned, I don't p'tend
to be no checker-player myse'f,-- but I know'd a feller onc't'at could play,
and sorto'made a business of it; and that man, in my opinion, was
a geenyus!

Name wuz Wesley Cotterl-- John Wesley Cotterl-- jest plain Wes, as us
fellers round the Shoe-Shop ust to call him; ust to allus make the Shoe-Shop
his headquarters-like; and, rain er shine, wet er dry, you'd allus
find Wes on hands, ready to banter some feller fer a game, er jest
a-settin'humped up there over the checker-board all alone, a-cipher'n'out
some new move er'nuther, and whistlin'low and solem'to hisse'f-like
and a-payin'no attention to nobody.

And I'll tell you, Wes Cotterl wuz no man's fool, as sly as you keep it!
He wuz a deep thinker, Wes wuz; and ef he'd'a'jest turned that mind
o'his loose on preachin', fer instunce, and the'terpertation o'the Bible,
don't you know, Wes'ud'a'worked p'ints out o'there'at no livin'expounderers
ever got in gunshot of! But Wes he didn't'pear to be cut out fer nothin'much
but jest Checker-playin'. Oh, of course, he could bump round his own woodpile
some, and garden a little, more er less; and the neighbers ust to find
Wes purty handy'bout trimmin'fruit-trees, you understand, and workin'in
among the worms and cattapillers in the vines and shrubbery, and the
like.

And handlin'bees!-- They wuzn't no man under the heavens'at knowed more'bout
handlin'bees'n Wes Cotterl!--" Settlin'"the blame'things when they wuz a-swarmin';
and a-robbin'hives, and all sich fool-resks. W'y, I've saw Wes Cotterl,'fore
now, when a swarm of bees'ud settle in a'orchard,-- like they will
sometimes, you know,-- I've saw Wes Cotterl jest roll up his shirt-sleeves
and bend down a'apple tree limb'at wuz jest kivvered with the pesky
things, and scrape'em back into the hive with his naked hands, by
the quart and gallon, and never git a scratch!

You couldn't hire a bee to sting Wes Cotterl! Never wuz'skunked,'wuz ye?" says Wes, kindo'suddent-like,
with a fur-off look in them big white eyes o'his-- and then a-whistlin'right on'sef he hadn't
said nothin'. "Not much!" says the feller, sorto's'prised-like, as ef such a'idy as that had never struck
him afore.-- "Never was'skunked'myse'f: but I've saw fellers in my time'at
wuz!" says he. But from that time on I noticed the feller'peared to play more
keerful, and railly la'nched into the game with somepin'like inter'st.
Wes he seemed to be jest a-limber-in'-up-like; and-sir, blame me!
ef he didn't walk the feller's log fer him that time,'thout no'pearent
trouble at all!

"And, now," says Wes, all quiet-like, a-squarin'the board fer another'n,-- "we're kindo'gittin'at things
right. Lots o'players has tackled Wes, and right at the start'ud mebby give him trouble,-- but in the long run,
now mind ye-- in the long run, no mortal man, I reckon, had any business
o'rubbin'knees with Wes Cotterl under no airthly checker-board in
all this vale o'tears!

Move." And away went that little unconcerned whistle o'his ag'in, and Mr. Cityman
jest gittin'white and sweaty too-- he wuz so nervous. Ner he didn't'pear to
find much to laugh at in the next game-- ner the next two games nuther!
Things wuz a-gettin'mighty interestin'' bout them times, and I guess
the feller wuz ser'ous-like a-wakin'up to the solem'fact'at it tuk'bout
all his spare time to keep up his end o'the row, and even that state
o'pore satisfaction wuz a-creepin'furder and furder away from him
ever'new turn he undertook. Whilse Wes jest peared to git more deliber't'and
certain ever'game; and that unendin'se'f-satisfied and comfortin'little
whistle o'his never drapped a stitch, but toed out ever'game alike,--
to'rds the last, and, fer the most part, disasterss to the feller'at
had started in with sich confidence and actchul promise, don't you
know.

Well-sir, the feller stuck the whole forenoon out, and then the afternoon; and then knuckled down to
it'way into the night-- yes, and plum midnight!-- And he buckled
into the thing bright and airly next morning! bright and airly next
morning!

"And who is your best player?" says the feller, kindo'pitiful-like, with another inquirin'look
at Wes.

"Him," says I, a-pokin'Wes with a peg-float. But Wes on'y spit kindo'absent-like,
and went on with his whistlin'.

Had a big yaller, luther-kivvered book under his arm, and a bunch o'these-'ere
big envelop's and a lot o'suppeenies stickin'out o'his breastpocket.

Mighty slick-lookin'feller he wuz; wore a stovepipe hat, sorto'circle'way
back on his head-- so's to show off his Giner'l Jackson forr'ed,
don't you know!

Well-sir, this feller struck the place, on some business er other, and then missed the hack'at ort
to'a'tuk him out o'here sooner'n it did take him out!-- And whilse
he wuz a-loafin'round, sorto'lonesome-- like a feller allus is in
a strange place, you know-- he kindo'drapped in on our crowd at the
Shoe-Shop, ostenchably to git a boot-strop stitched on, but I knowed,
the minute he set foot in the door,'at that feller wanted comp'ny
wuss'n cobblin'.

Well, as good luck would have it, there set Wes, as usual, with the checker-board
in his lap, a-playin'all by hisse'f, and a-whistlin'so low and solem'-like
and sad it railly made the crowd seem like a religious getherun'o'some
kind er other, we wuz all so quiet and still-like, as the man come
in.

Well, the stranger stated his business, set down, tuk off his boot, and set
there nussin'his foot and talkin'weather fer ten minutes, I reckon,'fore
he ever'peared to notice Wes at all. We wuz all back'ard, anyhow,'bout talkin'much;
besides, we knowed, long afore he come in, all about how hot the
weather wuz, and the pore chance there wuz element'rain, and all that;
and so the subject had purty well died out, when jest then the feller's
eyes struck Wes and the checker-board,-- and I'll never fergit the
warm, salvation smile'at flashed over him at the promisin'discovery.

"What!" says he, a-grinnin'like a'angel and a-edgin'his cheer to'rds
Wes, "have we a king-board and checkers here?"

"" But the feller didn't'pear to think so at all, and played right
ahead as glib-like and keerless as ever--'casion'ly a-throwin'in
them sircastic remarks o'his'n,--'bout bein'"slow and shore"'bout
things in gineral-- "Liked to see that," he said:-- "

 As to those vacant pages which are placed between our books, they are to be regarded
as those stages where in long journies the traveller stays some time to repose himself, and
consider of what he hath seen in the parts he hath already passed through; a consideration
which I take the liberty to recommend a little to the reader; for, however swift his capacity
may be, I would not advise him to travel through these pages too fast; for if he doth, he may
probably miss the seeing some curious productions of nature, which will be observed by the
slower and more accurate reader. A volume without any such places of rest resembles the opening
of wilds or seas, which tires the eye and fatigues the spirit when entered upon.

Secondly, what are the contents prefixed to every chapter but so many inscriptions over the
gates of inns (to continue the same metaphor), informing the reader what entertainment he is
to expect, which if he likes not, he may travel on to the next; for, in biography, as we are
not tied down to an exact concatenation equally with other historians, so a chapter or two
(for instance, this I am now writing) may be often passed over without any injury to the whole.
And in these inscriptions I have been as faithful as possible, not imitating the celebrated
Montaigne, who promises you one thing and gives you another; nor some title-page authors, who
promise a great deal and produce nothing at all.

There are, besides these more obvious benefits, several others which our readers enjoy from
this art of dividing; though perhaps most of them too mysterious to be presently understood
by any who are not initiated into the science of authoring. To mention, therefore, but one
which is most obvious, it prevents spoiling the beauty of a book by turning down its leaves,
a method otherwise necessary to those readers who (though they read with great improvement
and advantage) are apt, when they return to their study after half-an-hour's absence, to forget
where they left off. 

"on October 30th, the date of the battle of Lombards kop, [180] the only
regular unit on the Natal line of communication was the 1st Border regiment,
which had arrived at Maritzburg that morning from East London. Detachments
of colonial troops held Colenso bridge and Estcourt.

To the eastward the Umvoti Rifles,
a mounted corps accurately more than one hundred strong, had been
ordered to fall back from Helpmakaar and watch the ferry, by which
the Dundee-greytown road crosses the Tugela.

A battalion of mounted infantry was being raised at Maritzburg by
lieut.-Colonel Thorneycroft, royal Scots Fusiliers, and another at
Durban by lieut.-Colonel Bethune, 16th Lancers.

[footnote 180:
see Chapter x.] [sidenote: threatened siege changes situation.] the
result of the battle of 30th October made it probable that the field
force at Ladysmith would be soon cut off from its communications.

To keep the road open to
the south, Sir George white that evening reinforced the garrison of
Colenso by despatching still by rail from Ladysmith the 2nd royal Dublin Fusiliers,
a company of mounted infantry, and the Natal Field battery, whose obsolete
7-pounder guns had been grievously outranged at elandslaagte. On arrival
at Colenso, the commanding officer of the Dublin, Colonel C. D. Cooper,
assumed command of that post, finding there one squadron of the Natal
Carbineers, one squadron imperial Light Horse, a party of mounted
Police, and the Durban Light Infantry (about 380 strong), and a detachment
(fifty strong) of the Natal naval Volunteers, with two 9-pounder guns.

The total strength
of the command, including the reinforcements from Ladysmith, was approximately 1,200 men. The Natal
royal Rifles (150 strong) were encamped at Estcourt, twenty-five miles in rear. [sidenote: an anxious
fortnight, Oct. 31st-Nov. 14th.] on the following day general white telegraphed to the Governor
of the colony:" my intention is to hold Ladysmith, make attacks on the enemy's position whenever
possible, and retain the greatest number of the enemy here. "Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson
and the officer commanding the Natal line of communication, Brigadier-General
J. S. Wolfe Murray, were thus confronted with a difficult and anxious
situation. It was obvious that, having regard to the numerical superiority
and greater mobility of the enemy, the british force at Ladysmith
would, in all probability, be unable to retain the whole of the Boer
army.

A raid on southern Natal was therefore to be expected immediately, and the strength of that raid might
well be such as to overwhelm, or, at any rate, to ignore, the weak garrisons which
so imperfectly covered Maritzburg and Durban. Moreover, general Murray was aware
that even if Sir R. Buller should think fit to divert from Cape Colony
any portion of the expeditionary force now on the high seas, the fortnight might
fall among the detachment during its progress through the trees and brushwood
which concealed its movements. At 2.45 p. M., the 62nd came into action
1,200 yards from the south bank, behind a swell in the ground which
covered the gunners from the waist downwards.

Its fire, aimed first at the north bank, was distributed laterally, and so for depth, with
good results, as the enemy's musketry slackened, and numbers of men were seen
stealing away. About 5 p. M., to support the projected attack by the
Guards, the battery was moved close to a sandpit on the west of the
railway, where it was joined by the section of the 18th from the left of
the line. [sidenote: colvile breaks off the fight.] after considerable
delay, caused by the difficulty of sending messages across the shot-swept
plain, major-general colvile was informed that Lord methuen had been wounded,
and that the command of the division had devolved upon him. He handed
over the Guards'brigade to Colonel Paget, Scots Guards, with orders
to collect his battalions for the attack upon the left of the Boer
line, but soon afterwards decided that it was too late to risk the
passage of the river at night with troops exhausted by hunger, thirst,
and the burning heat of an exceptionally hot day.

He therefore resolved to break off the fight till daybreak next morning,
and directed Colonel Paget to form up his brigade for the night at
the southern reservoir.

[sidenote: Pole-Carew holds rosmead, and concentrates 9th brigade on
north bank.] [sidenote: Boers abandon position. Night, Nov. 28-29.]
as soon as major-general Pole-Carew reluctantly abandoned the idea
of renewing his attack along the north bank of the Riet, he posted
his troops for the defence of Rosmead.

He realised the risks which he ran in holding so isolated a position
throughout the night, but he and his staff considered that the importance
of maintaining the lodgment, which had been effected on the enemy's
side of the Riet, made it worth while to incur the danger.

To the royal engineers, under major G. F. Leverson, was allotted
the western face of the village; the Yorkshire Light Infantry held
the north, and the loyal North Lancashire the north-east; the Argyll
and Sutherland guarded the east.

The men lined the walls, banks, and houses at a yard and a half apart, in
groups of six, of whom five rested while one stood sentry. In the centre
of the village was the reserve, two companies of the Northumberland
Fusiliers, and a company of the 2nd battalion Coldstream Guards.

The remainder of the 9th brigade was ordered to cross the river. To guide them, two fires were lit at the
drift; and by daybreak the whole command was concentrated on the north bank. It was reinforced by
the 1st Highland Light Infantry, who had arrived during the night by rail from Orange River. In the
grey of the morning, while the Guards were preparing to support the 9th brigade, still in action near
the farm to the south of Rosmead, reported that he heard through the officer commanding the artillery
that Major-general colvile had issued orders for a vigorous bombardment
of the position by the artillery till dusk, when the Guards were to
attack the left of the Boer line with the bayonet. Pole-Carew then considered
whether, in view of the projected movement of the Guards'brigade, his
local attack was thither feasible. He decided that, owing to the configuration
of the ground over which both bodies of troops would have to move in
the darkness, the danger was so great lest his detachment should
enfilade the Guards as to prohibit an advance from Rosmead.

All, therefore, that could be done was to secure firmly that village. [sidenote: 62nd battery with four
guns arrives after forced march.] While the little column had been
striving in vain to force its way back the right bank of the river,
the situation on the left bank had remained unchanged.

The infantry lay prone on the ground, engaged in a desultory fire-fight with an unseen enemy,
while the artillery continued to shell the buildings and the river-banks near the railway bridge. During
the course of the afternoon Colonel Hall, commanding the artillery, had received a welcome reinforcement
of four guns of the 62nd battery, under major E. J. Granet. The 62nd, which had been left to guard
the Orange River bridge, received orders late on the 26th to leave two
guns at that camp, and proceed with all speed to rejoin Lord methuen's
division. Owing to a deficiency in rolling stock, no railway transport
was available, and it became necessary for the battery to march the
whole way.

Starting at 10 a. M. On the 27th, major Granet reached Belmont, thirty miles distant,
at dusk. He halted there till 6 a. M. On the 28th, when, escorted by twenty-five
of the royal Munster Fusiliers mounted infantry, he marched to Honey
nest kloof, where he decided to water and feed his horses. He had but just
halted, when a message reached him that there was fighting on the Riet
river and that guns and ammunition were urgently required there. He
started immediately, and despite the heavy ground over which he had to pass,
reached the battlefield a little after 2 p. M. In twenty-eight hours
the 62nd battery had covered sixty-two miles, at the expense of six
horses which fell dead in the traces, and of about forty more, which
never recovered from the fatigue of this forced march.

The battery was first sent to the left to support the advance up
the north bank of the river, but before it had opened fire, Colonel
Hall ordered major Granet more to the eastward, as he was afraid that
the shells must elapse before a single man could be landed at Durban.

[sidenote: provisional steps in case of Boer raid.] Maritzburg, from its topographical environment,
is even less adapted by nature for defence than Ladysmith. Lying in a deep depression surrounded by
high hills, the positions covering the capital of the colony are
so extensive that a very large force would be needed for their effective
occupation.

Nevertheless, after consultation on the afternoon of 31st October
with the Governor and the prime Minister of the colony (Colonel Hime), the
Brigadier-general decided that, although it was impossible to protect
the town itself, it was advisable to prepare the cantonments, so-called"
Fort Napier, "for defence, and for that purpose to borrow naval guns
from the ships at Durban.

As regards Durban, a telegram was received from Sir Alfred Milner stating that arrangements had
been made by Sir Redvers Buller with the admiral for the immediate
despatch to that port of H. M. S. Terrible and Forte as a reinforcement
to the Tartar and Philomel, already in the harbour, and suggesting
that in the case of a complete disaster to Sir G. White's force it
would be wise to retire on the seaport and there make a stand.

[sidenote: Changes of stations, Nov. 2nd and 3rd, in expectation
of raid.] but the responsible military authorities were by no means
inclined to take a pessimistic view of the situation.

The final instructions, dated 1st November, received from Sir G.
White's Chief of the Staff, directed general Murray" to remain and
defend Maritzburg to the last, "and on the following day Sir R. Buller
telegraphed from Capetown that a division would be despatched as soon
as possible to Natal, adding:" do all you can to hold on to Colenso
till troops arrive.

"meanwhile, a warning had been received from the Intelligence staff
at Ladysmith, that the considerable body of free Staters was moving
on Colenso, and Brigadier-general Murray, realising that the situation
of Colonel Cooper's force at the bridge, commanded by the heights
on the northern bank of the Tugela, was becoming precarious, directed
that officer to fall back on Estcourt, should he consider his position
no longer tenable.

On the afternoon of November 2nd, telegraphic communication between Colenso and Ladysmith was
cut off by the enemy, and a large Boer commando, having occupied the high ground near Grobelaars
kloof (map no. 15), opened fire on the two little works, Forts Wylie
and Molyneux, which had been constructed by the Natal Volunteers
on the left bank of the Tugela to cover the crossings of that river,
and the approaches to Langewacht Spruit.

The Natal
Field battery and Natal naval Volunteers'guns were again seriously outranged by the Boer artillery, and
Colonel Cooper decided that, having regard to his instructions, he
must fall back on Estcourt.

The withdrawal to that town was effected on the night of November 2nd-3rd without molestation from the
enemy, the infantry being conveyed in special trains, the mounted
troops and field artillery moving by road.

The 1st battalion Border regiment was simultaneously pushed forward by rail from
Maritzburg to Estcourt, and Brigadier-general Murray proceeded, on 3rd November,
to the latter station to take personal command of the force there
concentrated, which now amounted in all to about 2,300 men. With this
force, weak though it was in guns and mounted troops, he intended
to dispute the Boer advance from the north, falling back, if necessary,
on the prepared position at Maritzburg.

A telegram, dated 4th November, conveyed general Buller's approval of
these dispositions, but added:" do not risk losing Durban by over-prolonged
defence of Maritzburg, but hold the latter so long as you safely can.

I fear it will be at least ten days before I can send you substantial
assistance. "[sidenote: after much delay, on Nov. 13th/ 99, 4,200 Boers
under Joubert and Botha reach Colenso.] fortunately, until the last but
one of these ten days, the enemy held down on the north bank of the
Tugela.

A Krijgsraad, at which all the Boer generals and commandants attended, had assembled in front of Ladysmith
on 1st November to decide whether the main effort of the Boer army should
be concentrated on the attack of that town, or whether, leaving a
detachment to hold Sir G. White's troops, they should at once advance
on Maritzburg and Durban.

Some of the younger leaders, including Louis Botha, as yet only plain
commandant, were in favour of the latter course.

The majority
of the council decided that, then long as 12,000 effective british
troops remained at Ladysmith, the commandos were not numerous enough
to allow them to win the much-coveted prizes of the capital and seaport
of Natal.

It was believed that general white's troops would be unable to withstand
an assault.

On the 9th November, therefore, an abortive and ill-arranged attack
was made.

It sufficed to show that the Ladysmith garrison was by no means disposed
to yield, and that a formal and perhaps prolonged investment would
be needed to weaken its powers of resistance.

To this task, therefore, the main body of the Boer commandos was
assigned; but, as an erroneous report had come in that 5,000 english
troops had concentrated at Frere, it was decided that a strong reconnaissance,
under the personal command of General Joubert, should cross the Tugela
to ascertain the disposition and strength of the british column.

On the evening, therefore, of the 13th November, a force about 4,200 strong was assembled at Colenso with
orders to push to the south. As agreed, Joubert, although transvaal Commandant-General, went
with it. Louis Botha, promoted to the rank of" fighting general,
"was second in command. There is reason to believe that the presence of
the senior general was due to a desire to restrain the impetuosity of
his subordinate.

[sidenote: defensive measures taken during the time of grace given
by Boer delay.] the fifteen days'breathing space which the authorities
in southern Natal had thus been given, after receipt of the disquieting
intelligence of the battle of Lombards kop, had been of great value.

Captain Percy Scott, H. M. S. Terrible, had reached Durban on November
6th, and was appointed commandant of that town.

A defence scheme was prepared and a battalion of" imperial Light
Infantry "was raised to assist the naval contingent, [181] and guns
(including two 4.7-in.

Guns and sixteen 12-pr. 12-cwt.) were landed for its protection.

At Maritzburg
a position in the vicinity of Fort Napier had, under the supervision
of Col. C. C. Rawson, C. R. E., been prepared for defence, the work
being executed by a hastily improvised Pioneer Corps of artisans,
assisted by native labour.

In selecting this
position and planning its defence, it was assumed that if the force at
Estcourt fell back on Maritzburg, 4,000 men in all would be available for
its occupation. Utterly, in addition to Thorneycroft's corps, the recruiting
and training of which were proceeding satisfactorily, a provisional
garrison was arranged for Maritzburg by the despatch of two 12-pounders
and a naval detachment from the fleet at Durban, by the withdrawal
of the detachment of the naval Volunteers from Estcourt, and by the
organisation into a Town Guard of all able-bodied citizens willing
to carry a rifle.

Moreover, some 150 loyal and zealous Natal colonists volunteered for scouting
duties, and were formed into a corps under the command of the hon. T.
K. Murray, C. M. G., finding their own horses, saddlery, and rifles,
and serving without pay.

This body of patriotic men did useful work to the north of Maritzburg, in the neighbourhood of
Mooi River, from the 4th to the 16th November, when on the arrival of reinforcements from the Cape
they were released from further duty, and thanked in general Orders
for their" excellent service. "[footnote 181: this contingent consisted
of parties from the terrible, Forte, Thetis, Philomel and Tartar,
of a total strength of 35 officers and 423 men.

Commander Limpus, R. N., was placed in command of the guns (see p. 120).] [sidenote: Nov.
11th/ 99. Reinforcements begin to disembark. Sir F. Clery takes command, Nov.
15th.] on 11th November general Murray, with the approval of Sir
R. Buller, handed over the command of the Estcourt garrison to Colonel
Charles long, R. H. A., and returned to Maritzburg to direct personally the heavy
work falling on the line of communication staff in arranging for
the disembarkation and equipment of the reinforcements, whose arrival
at Durban was now hourly expected.

[footnote 176: major Albrecht fought his guns with great determination; his infantry escort, according
to Boer accounts, retreated when they saw the advance of the british,
and his ammunition was almost exhausted, but his gunners stood their
ground.] [sidenote: Pole-Carew is obliged to fall back to Rosmead.]
[sidenote: Nov. 28th/ 99.] [sidenote: Lord methuen being wounded command
devolves on colvile.] Captain forestier-Walker, who was now in action
with the section of the 18th battery near the farm which had been
carried earlier in the day by the King's own Yorkshire Light Infantry,
vigorously shelled the trees and brushwood in front of our men as
they advanced, but his efforts were much hampered by the fact that
the undergrowth was so thick that it was impossible to see exactly
how far forward they were.

All attempts to establish communication by signal, between the officer
commanding the 9th brigade and the troops on the south side of the
river, failed.

The attack broke back from want of
strength to drive it home, and the baffled troops sullenly fell up
to Rosmead.

They were so closely pressed by the enemy's musketry that,
in order to cover the retreat, two officers, major H. F. Coleridge,
North Lancashire, and Captain T. Irvine, Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders,
each with ten or eleven men of different battalions, threw themselves
into farmhouses, which they stubbornly defended until, many hours
later, after their detachments had suffered severe loss, they were
ordered to evacuate their posts.

On his return to the village major-general Pole-Carew found that the british
strength on the north bank had been increased by the arrival of 300 officers
and men of the royal engineers, and of part of a company of the 2nd
battalion of the Coldstream Guards. After writing to Lord methuen to report
his failure to force his way up the right bank, and to ask for co-operation
in the fresh attempt for which he was then rallying his troops, Pole-Carew
heard a rumour that Lord methuen had been wounded, and that Major-general
colvile was now in command of the division.

The rumour was true. Lord methuen had been wounded at about 4 p. M. Near the centre
of the line, and one of his staff officers, Colonel H. P. Northcott,
had previously fallen mortally wounded, while conveying orders for
the reinforcement of the troops on the north bank. Not long after this news
came in, the officer commanding the two guns of the 18th battery,
the guns [177] re-opened fire upon Modder River village, but it was
soon discovered that during the night a enemy had abandoned his position,
and had disappeared with all his guns and pom-poms.

With horses meanwhile tired out, immediate pursuit was impossible, though
by midday patrols of mounted men had regained touch with such of
the Boers as had fallen back upon Magersfontein.

By the afternoon, a whole division had crossed the Riet, and was
concentrated on its northern bank.

[footnote 177: on the 28th, the field batteries expended ammunition
as follows:-- 18th 1,029 rounds 62nd 247"

75th 1,008 "the naval guns 260"] [sidenote: Casualties of Nov. 28th.]
the british casualties consisted of four officers killed (among whom was
lieut.-Colonel H. R. Stopford, commanding the 2nd battalion Coldstream
Guards) and 19 wounded; among the other ranks 67 were killed, and
370 wounded.

[178] the losses among the Boers are not rather known, but 23 burghers were found dead in Rosmead and
buried near the village, while 27 bodies were subsequently found in the river itself. [footnote 178:
for details as to casualties, see Appendix 6.] CHAPTER xvi. The RAID on southern NATAL. [179] [footnote 179:
see map no. 4.] [sidenote: the relation of Ladysmith to the defence of Natal.] throughout the operations
in Natal during the opening phase of the war, Sir G. White had held
that a mobile force, concentrated north of the Tugela, afforded better protection
to the central and southern portions of the colony than any number of detachments
stationed on the lines of communication. Face to face as he was with an enemy in
superior strength, the retention with his field force of every available
unit was essential to the british commander's plan of striking at
his opponents whenever an opportunity offered.

Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson, although anxious as to the security of Maritzburg
and Natal from Boer raids, accepted Sir George's decision, telegraphing
to the general on 26th October: "i shall do my best in consultation
with general Wolfe Murray.... i think we shall be able to deal with
any small raid, but a raid in force, especially if supported by guns,
will be a serious matter.

We must take the risk, and hope for the best.


The lady, who was perfectly well-bred, did not require many entreaties, and having only wished
their entertainment might make amends for the company's attention, she began in the following
manner.

CHAPTER IV.

The history of Leonora, or the unfortunate jilt.

Leonora was the daughter of a gentleman of fortune; she was tall and well-shaped, with a sprightliness
in her countenance which often attracts beyond more regular features joined with an insipid
air: nor is this kind of beauty less apt to deceive than allure; the good humour which it indicates
being often mistaken for good nature, and the vivacity for true understanding.

Leonora, who was now at the age of eighteen, lived with an aunt of hers in a town in the north
of England. She was an extreme lover of gaiety, and very rarely missed a ball or any other
public assembly; where she had frequent opportunities of satisfying a greedy appetite of vanity,
with the preference which was given her by the men to almost every other woman present.

Among many young fellows who were particular in their gallantries towards her, Horatio soon
distinguished himself in her eyes beyond all his competitors; she danced with more than ordinary
gaiety when he happened to be her partner; neither the fairness of the evening, nor the musick
of the nightingale, could lengthen her walk like his company. She affected no longer to understand
the civilities of others; whilst she inclined so attentive an ear to every compliment of Horatio,
that she often smiled even when it was too delicate for her comprehension.

"Pray, madam," says Adams, "who was this squire Horatio?"

Horatio, says the lady, was a young gentleman of a good family, bred to the law, and had been
some few years called to the degree of a barrister. His temper was of the saturnine complexion,
and without the least taint of moroseness. He had wit and humour, with an inclination to satire,
which he indulged rather too much.

This gentleman, who had contracted the most violent passion for Leonora, was the last person
who perceived the probability of its success. The whole town had made the match for him before
he himself had drawn a confidence from her actions sufficient to mention his passion to her;
for it was his opinion (and perhaps he was there in the right) that it is highly impolitick
to talk seriously of love to a woman before you have made such a progress in her affections,
that she herself expects and desires to hear it.

But whatever diffidence the fears of a lover may create, which are apt to magnify every favour
conferred on a rival, and to see the little advances towards themselves through the other end
of the perspective, it was impossible that Horatio's passion should so blind his discernment
as to prevent his conceiving hopes from the behaviour of Leonora, whose fondness for him was
now as visible to an indifferent person in their company as his for her.

"I never knew any of these forward sluts come to good" (says the lady who refused Joseph's
entrance into the coach), "nor shall I wonder at anything she doth in the sequel."

The lady proceeded in her story thus: It was in the midst of a gay conversation in the walks
one evening, when Horatio whispered Leonora, that he was desirous to take a turn or two with
her in private, for that he had something to communicate to her of great consequence. "Are
you sure it is of consequence?" said she, smiling. "I hope," answered he, "you will think so
too, since the whole future happiness of my life must depend on the event."

Leonora, who very much suspected what was coming, would have deferred it till another time;
but Horatio, who had more than half conquered the difficulty of speaking by the first motion,
was so very importunate, that she at last yielded, and, leaving the rest of the company, they
turned aside into an unfrequented walk.

They had retired far out of the sight of the company, both maintaining a strict silence. At
last Horatio made a full stop, and taking Leonora, who stood pale and trembling, gently by
the hand, he fetched a deep sigh, and then, looking on her eyes with all the tenderness imaginable,
he cried out in a faltering accent, "O Leonora! is it necessary for me to declare to you on
what the future happiness of my life must be founded? Must I say there is something belonging
to you which is a bar to my happiness, and which unless you will part with, I must be miserable!"--"What
can that be?" replied Leonora. "No wonder," said he, "you are surprized that I should make
an objection to anything which is yours: yet sure you may guess, since it is the only one which
the riches of the world, if they were mine, should purchase for me. Oh, it is that which you
must part with to bestow all the rest! Can Leonora, or rather will she, doubt longer? Let me
then whisper it in her ears--It is your name, madam. It is by parting with that, by your condescension
to be for ever mine, which must at once prevent me from being the most miserable, and will
render me the happiest of mankind."

Leonora, covered with blushes, and with as angry a look as she could possibly put on, told
him, "That had she suspected what his declaration would have been, he should not have decoyed
her from her company, that he had so surprized and frighted her, that she begged him to convey
her back as quick as possible;" which he, trembling very near as much as herself, did.

"More fool he," cried Slipslop; "it is a sign he knew very little of our sect."--"Truly, madam,"
said Adams, "I think you are in the right: I should have insisted to know a piece of her mind,
when I had carried matters so far." But Mrs Grave-airs desired the lady to omit all such fulsome
stuff in her story, for that it made her sick. 

These concessions they eventually had won, and each city had its charter, in which its privileges were enumerated
and recognized by the authority of the nobleman, or of the king, to whom the city owed allegiance. In England
these charters had been acquired generally by merchant gilds, upon payment of a substantial sum
to the nobleman; in France frequently the townsmen had formed associations, called communes,
and had rebelled successfully against their feudal lords; in Germany the cities had leagued together
for mutual protection and for the acquisition of common privileges.

Other towns, formerly founded by bishops, abbots, or counts, had
received charters at the very outset.

[Sidenote: Merchant Gilds] A peculiar outgrowth of the need for protection
against oppressive feudal lords, as well as against thieves, swindlers,
and dishonest workmen, had been the typically urban organization known
as the merchant gild or the merchants'company. In the year 1500 the
merchant gilds were everywhere on the decline, but they still preserved
many of their earlier and more glorious traditions.

At the time of their greatest importance they had embraced merchants, butchers,
bakers, and candlestick-makers: in fact, all who bought or sold in the
town were included in the gild. And the merchant gild had then possessed
the widest functions. How keenly the cold pierced the dark huts of
the poorest, is hard for us to imagine. In those days all strangers were
regarded as suspicious persons, and not infrequently when a merchant
of the gild traveled to another town he would be set upon and robbed
or cast into prison.

In such cases it was necessary for the gild to ransom the imprisoned
"brother" and, if possible, to punish the persons who had done the
injury, so that thereafter the liberties of the gild members would
be respected.

That the business of the gild might be increased, it was often desirable to enter into special arrangements with neighboring
cities whereby the rights, lives, and properties of gildsmen were guaranteed; and the gild
as a whole was responsible for the debts of any of its members.

[Sidenote: Regulative] The most important duty of the gild had been
the regulation of the home market. In common with the merchant gild, the craft
gild had religious and social aspects, and like the merchant gild
it insisted on righteous dealings; but unlike the merchant gild it
was composed of men in a single industry, and it controlled in detail
the manufacture as well as the marketing of commodities.

A full-grown ox was hardly larger than a good-sized calf of the present time. Moreover, there were
no potatoes or turnips, and few farmers grew clover or other grasses
for winter fodder. It was impossible, therefore, to keep many cattle through
the winter; most of the animals were killed off in the autumn and
salted down for the long winter months when it was impossible to
secure fresh meat.

[Sidenote: Peasant Life on the Manor] Crude farm-methods and the heavy
dues exacted by the lord [Footnote: In addition to the dues paid to the
lay lord, the peasants were under obligation to make a regular contribution
to the church, which was called the "tithe" and amounted to a share,
less than a tenth, of the annual crops.] of the manor must have left
the poor man little for himself.

Compared with the comfort of the farmer today, the poverty of sixteenth-century
peasants must have been inexpressibly distressful. Many craft gilds exhibited
in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries a tendency to split somewhat
along the present lines of capital and labor. On the one hand the old
gild organization would be usurped and controlled by the wealthier
master-workmen, called "livery men," because they wore rich uniforms,
or a class of dealers would arise and organize a "merchants'company"
to conduct a wholesale business in the products of a particular industry.

Burdensome restrictions were laid upon the stranger who attempted
to utilize the advantages of the market without sharing the expense
of maintenance.

No goods were allowed to be carried away from the city if the townsmen
wished to buy; and a tax, called in France the octroi, was levied
on goods brought into the town.

The gild had rules specifying the quality of materials to be used
and often, likewise, the methods of manufacture; it might prohibit
night-work, and it usually fixed a "fair price" at which goods were
to be sold.

By means of such provisions, enforced by wardens or inspectors, the
gild not only perpetuated the "good old way" of doing things, but guaranteed
to the purchaser a thoroughly good article at a fair price. [Sidenote:
Partial Decay of Craft Gilds] By the opening of the sixteenth century
the craft gilds, though not so weakened as the merchant gilds, were
suffering from various internal diseases which sapped their vitality.

They tended to become exclusive and to direct their power and affluence
in hereditary grooves.

They steadily raised their entrance fees and qualifications. Struggles between
gilds in allied trades, such as spinning, weaving, fulling, and dyeing, often
resulted in the reduction of several gilds to a dependent position. There were
bakers'gilds, brewers'gilds, smiths'gilds, saddlers'gilds, shoemakers'gilds,
weavers'gilds, tailors'gilds, tanners'gilds, even gilds of masters
of arts who constituted the teaching staff of colleges and universities.

When to-day we speak of a boy "serving his apprenticeship" in a trade,
we seldom reflect that the expression is derived from a practice of
the medieval craft gilds, a practice which survived after the gilds
were extinct.

Apprenticeship was designed to make sure that recruits to the trade were
properly trained.

The apprentice was usually selected as a boy by a master-workman and
indentured-- that is, bound to work several years without wages, while living
at the master's house. After the expiration of this period of apprenticeship,
during which he had learned his trade thoroughly, the youth became
a "journeyman," and worked for wages, until he should finally receive
admission to the gild as a master, with the right to set up his own
little shop, with apprentices and journeymen of his own, and to sell
his wares directly to those who used them.

This restriction of membership was not the only way in which the
trade was supervised.

Often their narrowness made them impassable for wagons.

In places the pedestrian waded gallantly through mud and garbage;
pigs grunted ponderously as he pushed them aside; chickens ran under
his feet; and occasionally a dead dog obstructed the way.

There were no sidewalks, and only the main thoroughfares were paved.
Dirt and filth and refuse were ordinarily disposed of only when a
heaven-sent rain washed them down the open gutters constructed along
the middle, or on each side, of a street.

Not only was there no general sewerage for the town, but there was likewise
no public water supply. Even the old conscientiousness often gave way to greed,
until in many places inferior workmanship received the approval of the
gild. Only a few old soldiers, and possibly a priest, had traveled
very much; they were the only geographies and the only books of travel
which the village possessed, for few peasants could read or write. And
as the towns grew in size, the prosperous citizens proved to be the
best customers for foreign luxuries, and foreign trade grew apace.

Town, trade, and industry thus worked together: trade stimulated industry, industry assisted trade, and
the town profited by both. By the sixteenth century the towns had
grown out of their infancy and were maintaining a great measure of political
and economic freedom. [Sidenote: Freedom of the Towns.] [Sidenote:
Town Charters] Originally many a town had belonged to some nobleman's
extensive manor and its inhabitants had been under much the same
servile obligations to the lord as were the strictly rural serfs.

But with the lapse of time and the growth of the towns, the townsmen
or burghers had begun a struggle for freedom from their feudal lords.

They did not want to pay servile dues to a baron, but preferred to
substitute a fixed annual payment for individual obligations; they
besought the right to manage their market; they wished to have cases
at law tried in a court of their own rather than in the feudal court
over which the nobleman presided; and they demanded the right to pay
all taxes in a lump sum for the town, themselves assessing and collecting
the share of each citizen.

Thus the rich drapers sold all the cloth, but did not help to make
it.

On the other hand it became increasingly difficult for journeymen and apprentices to rise to the
station of masters; oftentimes they remained wage-earners for life.
In order to better their condition they formed new associations,
which in England were called journeymen's or yeomen's companies.

These new organizations were symptomatic of injustice but otherwise unimportant. The craft gilds, with
all their imperfections, were to continue in power awhile longer, slowly giving away as new
trades arose outside of their control, gradually succumbing in competition
with capitalists who refused to be bound by gild rules and who were
to evolve a new "domestic system," [Footnote: See Vol. II, ch xviii.] and
slowly suffering diminution of prestige through royal interference.
[Sidenote: Life in the Towns] In the year 1500 the European towns
displayed little uniformity in government or in the amount of liberty
they possessed.

[Sidenote: Industry: the Craft Guilds] Alongside of the merchant gilds, which had been associated
with the growth of commerce and the rise of towns, were other guilds
connected with the growth of industry, which retained their importance
long after 1500.

These were the craft gilds. [Footnote: The craft gild was also called a company, or a mistery, or metier
(French), or Zunft (German).] Springing into prominence in the thirteenth
and fourteenth centuries, the craft gild sometimes, as in Germany, voiced
a popular revolt against corrupt and oligarchical merchant gilds,
and sometimes most frequently so in England-- worked quite harmoniously
with the merchant gild, to which its own members belonged.

(cornering
the market), [Footnote: The idea that "combinations in restraint of
trade" are wrong quite possibly goes back to this abhorrence of engrossing.]
and "regrating"

(retailing at higher than market price).

The dishonest green grocer was not allowed to use a peck-measure with false bottom, for weighing and
measuring were done by officials. [Sidenote: Earlier Functions of the Merchant Gild.]
[Sidenote: Social] Its social and religious functions, inherited from
much earlier bodies, consisted in paying some special honor to a
patron saint, in giving aid to members in sickness or misfortune,
attending funerals, and also in the more enjoyable meetings when the
freely flowing bowl enlivened the transaction of gild business.

[Footnote: The octroi is still collected in Paris.] Moreover, a conviction prevailed that the gild was morally
bound to enforce honest straightforward methods of business; and the "wardens" appointed by
the gild to supervise the market endeavored to prevent, as dishonest
practices, "forestalling"

(buying outside of the regular market), "engrossing"

Intercourse
with other villages was unnecessary, unless there were no blacksmith
or miller on the spot. Some were petty republics subject only in a
very vague way to an extraneous potentate; some merely paid annual
tribute to a lord; some were administered by officers of a king or feudal
magnate; others were controlled by oligarchical commercial associations.

But of the general appearance and life of sixteenth-century towns,
it is possible to secure a more uniform notion.

It must be borne in mind that the towns were
comparatively small, for the great bulk of people still lived in
the country.

A town of 5000 inhabitants was then accounted large; and even the
largest places, like Nuremberg, Strassburg, London, Paris, and Bruges,
would have been only small cities in our eyes. The approach to an
ordinary city of the time lay through suburbs, farms, and garden-plots,
for the townsman still supplemented industry with small-scale agriculture.

Usually the town itself was inclosed by
strong walls, and admission was to be gained only by passing through
the gates, where one might be accosted by soldiers and forced to pay
toll.

Inside the walls were clustered houses of every description. Rising
from the midst of tumble-down dwellings might stand a magnificent cathedral,
town-hall, or gild building. Here and there a prosperous merchant
would have his luxurious home, built in what we now call the Gothic
style, with pointed windows and gables, and, to save space in a walled
town, with the second story projecting out over the street.

The streets were usually in deplorable condition. There might be one or
two broad highways, but the rest were mere alleys, devious, dark, and
dirty. Under these circumstances the citizen who would escape an assault
by ruffians or thieves remained prudently indoors at night and retired
early to bed.

Picturesque
and quaint the sixteenth-century town may have been; but it was also
an uncomfortable and an unhealthful place in which to live.

TRADE PRIOR TO THE COMMERCIAL REVOLUTION Just as agriculture is the ultimate
basis of human society, so town-life has always been an index of culture
and civilization. And the fortunes of town-life have ever depended upon
the vicissitudes of trade and commerce.

So the reviving commerce of the later middle ages between Europe and the
East meant the growth of cities and betokened an advance in civilization.
[Sidenote: Revival of Trade with the East] Trade between Europe and
Asia, which had been a feature of the antique world of Greeks and
Romans, had been very nearly destroyed by the barbarian invasions
of the fifth century and by subsequent conflicts between Mohammedans
and Christians, so that during several centuries the old trade-routes
were traveled only by a few Jews and with the Syrians.

[Sidenote: Rural Isolation and Conservatism] At other times there was little to disturb the monotony
of village life and little to remind it of the outside world, except when a gossiping peddler chanced along,
or when the squire rode away to court or to war. Self-sufficient and secluded from the outer world, the rural
village went on treasuring its traditions, keeping its old customs,
century after century.

The country instinctively distrusted all novelties; it always preferred
old ways to new; it was heartily conservative. Country-folk did not discover
America.

It was the enterprise of the cities, with their growing industries and commerce, which brought about the
Commercial Revolution; and to the development of commerce, industry, and the towns, we now must
turn our attention. TOWNS ON THE EVE OF THE COMMERCIAL REVOLUTION
[Sidenote: Trade and the Towns] Except for the wealthy Italian city-states
and a few other cities which traced their history back to Roman times,
most European towns, it must be remembered, dated only from the later
middle ages.

At first there was little excuse for their existence except to sell
to farmers salt, fish, iron, and a few plows.

But with the increase of commerce, which, as we shall see, especially marked the thirteenth, fourteenth,
and fifteenth centuries, more merchants traveled through the country, ways of spending money multiplied,
and the little agricultural villages learned to look on the town as
the place to buy not only luxuries but such tools, clothing, and shoes
as could be manufactured more conveniently by skillful town artisans than
by clumsy rustics.

The towns, moreover, became exchanges where surplus farm products
could be marketed, where wine could be bartered for wool, or wheat
for flax.

Where the merchant gilds became
oppressive oligarchical associations, as they did in Germany and elsewhere
on the Continent, they lost their power by the revolt of the more democratic
"craft gilds."

In England specialized control of industry and trade by craft gilds,
journeymen's gilds, and dealers'associations gradually took the place
of the general supervision of the older merchant gild.

After suffering the loss of its vital functions, the merchant gild by the sixteenth century either quietly succumbed
or lived on with power in a limited branch of trade, or continued as an honorary organization with
occasional feasts, or, and this was especially true in England, it became practically identical with
the town corporation, from which originally it had been distinct. The village priest, [Footnote: Usually
very different from the higher clergy, who had large landed estates of their own, the parish priests
had but modest incomes from the tithes of their parishioners and
frequently eked out a living by toiling on allotted patches of ground.

The monks too were ordinarily poor, although the monastery might
be wealthy, and they likewise often tilled the fields.] himself often
of humble birth, though the most learned man on the manor, was at
once the friend and benefactor of the poor and the spiritual director
of the lord.

[Sidenote: Protective] As a protective organization, the gild had been particularly effective. Backed
by the combined forces of all the gildsmen, it was able to assert itself
against the lord who claimed manorial rights over the town, and to
insist that a runaway serf who had lived in the town for a year and
a day should not be dragged back to perform his servile labor on the
manor, but should be recognized as a freeman.

The protection of the gild was accorded also to townsmen on their travels.
The winter diet of salt meat, the lack of vegetables, the chronic
filth and squalor, and the sorry ignorance of all laws of health opened
the way to disease and contagion. And if the crops failed, famine
was added to plague. On the other hand we must not forget that the
tenement-houses of our great cities have been crowded in the nineteenth
century with people more miserable than ever was serf of the middle
ages.

The serf, at any rate, had the open air instead of a factory in which to work. When times were
good, he had grain and meat in plenty, and possibly wine or cider, and he
hardly envied the tapestried chambers, the bejeweled clothes, and the
spiced foods of the nobility, for he looked upon them as belonging
to a different world.

In one place nobleman and peasant met on a common footing-- in the village church. There, on
Sundays and feast-days, they came together as Christians to hear Mass;
and afterwards, perhaps, holiday games and dancing on the green,
benignantly patronized by the lord's family, helped the common folk
to forget their labors.

It was useless to attempt to breed fine cattle when all were herded
together.

The breed deteriorated, and both cattle and sheep were undersized and poor.
The regulation of the processes of manufacture, once designed to keep
up the standard of skill, came in time to be a powerful hindrance
to technical improvements; and in the method as well as in the amount
of his work, the enterprising master found himself handicapped.

The roads were poor and in wet weather impassable. Travel was largely
on horseback, and what few commodities were carried from place to
place were transported by pack-horses.

Cheats were fined heavily and, if they persisted in their evil ways,
they might be expelled from the gild. These merchant gilds, with their
social, protective, and regulative functions, had first begun to
be important in the eleventh century.

In England, where their growth was most rapid, 82 out of the total
of 102 towns had merchant gilds by the end of the thirteenth century.
[Footnote: Several important places, such as London, Colchester, and
Norwich, belonged to the small minority without merchant gilds.] On
the Continent many towns, especially in Germany, had quite different
arrangements, and where merchant gilds existed, they were often exclusive
and selfish groups of merchants in a single branch of business.

[Sidenote: Decline of Merchant Guilds] With the expansion of trade and
industry in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries the rule of the
old merchant gilds, instead of keeping pace with the times, became
oppressive, limited, or merely nominal.

Occasionally a visit of the bishop to administer confirmation to
the children, afforded an opportunity for gayety and universal festivity.
In many of the garden plots at the rear of the low-roofed dwellings
were dug wells which provided water for the family; and the visitor,
before he left the town, would be likely to meet with water-sellers
calling out their ware.

To guard against the danger of fires, each municipality encouraged
its citizens to build their houses of stone and to keep a tub full
of water before every building; and in each district a special official
was equipped with a proper hook and cord for pulling down houses on
fire.

At night respectable town-life was practically at a standstill: the
gates were shut; the curfew sounded; no street-lamps dispelled the
darkness, except possibly an occasional lantern which an altruistic
or festive townsman might hang in his front-window; and no efficient
police-force existed-- merely a handful of townsmen were drafted from
time to time as "watchmen" to preserve order, and the "night watch"
was famed rather for its ability to sleep or to roister than to protect
life or purse.

 She told her, "While there was life there was
hope; but that if he should die her affliction would be of no service to Bellarmine, and would
only expose herself, which might, probably, keep her some time without any future offer; that,
as matters had happened, her wisest way would be to think no more of Bellarmine, but to endeavour
to regain the affections of Horatio." "Speak not to me," cried the disconsolate Leonora; "is
it not owing to me that poor Bellarmine has lost his life? Have not these cursed charms (at
which words she looked steadfastly in the glass) been the ruin of the most charming man of
this age? Can I ever bear to contemplate my own face again (with her eyes still fixed on the
glass)? Am I not the murderess of the finest gentleman? No other woman in the town could have
made any impression on him." "Never think of things past," cries the aunt: "think of regaining
the affections of Horatio." "What reason," said the niece, "have I to hope he would forgive
me? No, I have lost him as well as the other, and it was your wicked advice which was the occasion
of all; you seduced me, contrary to my inclinations, to abandon poor Horatio (at which words
she burst into tears); you prevailed upon me, whether I would or no, to give up my affections
for him; had it not been for you, Bellarmine never would have entered into my thoughts; had
not his addresses been backed by your persuasions, they never would have made any impression
on me; I should have defied all the fortune and equipage in the world; but it was you, it was
you, who got the better of my youth and simplicity, and forced me to lose my dear Horatio for
ever." 

I seem to hear a whisperin'in the air, A sighin'like, of unconsoled
despair, Thet comes from nowhere an'from everywhere, An'seems to
say, "Why died we? war n't it, then, To settle, once for all, thet
men wuz workforce?

In the Capital of the Past, people encounter at the café, or at the
tea-tables of lady-acquaintance, speak, before falling upon the works
of absent friends, concerning the antique jewel which Castellani lately
bought of a peasant, and intends to reproduce, for the delight of
all who can afford to love the quaint and exquisite forms of the ancient
workers in gems and gold; or they talk of that famous statue of the
young Hercules, dug up by the lucky proprietor, who received from
the Pope a marquisate, and forgiveness of all his debts, in return
for his gift of the gilded treasure.

QUESTION OF MONUMENTS. O, airth's sweet cup snetched from us barely tasted,
The grave's real chill is feelin'life wuz wasted! O, you we lef, long-lingerin'et
the door, Lovin'you best, coz we loved Her the more, Thet Death,
not we, had conquered, we should feel Ef she upon our memory turned
her heel, An'unregretful throwed us all away To flaunt it in a Blind
Man's Holiday!

Thet tells the story!

To see the South all back to once, Reapin'the spiles o'the Freesiler,
Is cute ez though an engineer Should claim th'old iron for his sheer Because't
wuz him that bust the biler!

To people who know one another so familiarly as must the members of a
community united in a strange land by the ties of alien race, language,
and religion, there cannot, of course, be wanting the little excitements
of personal gossip and scandal; but even these have generally an
innocent, artistic flavor, and it is ladies'statues, not reputations,
which suffer,-- gentlemen's pictures, not characters, which are called
into question; while the events which interest the whole community
are altogether different from those which move us at home.

O, did it seem'z ef Providunce Could ever send a second Tyler? My
frien's, I've talked nigh on to long enough."

At the worst these happy children of art, and their cousins the connoisseurs,
(every English-speaking foreigner in Rome is of one class or the other,)
are only drawn from the debate of such themes by some dramatic aspect
of the picturesque Roman politics: a scene between the French commandant
and Antonelli, or the arrest of a restaurateur for giving his guests
white turnips, red beets, and green beans in the same revolutionary
plate; or the like incident.

"It's the las'time thet I shell e'er address ye, But you'll soon
fin'some new tormentor: bless ye!

In the beautiful life which the English-speaking foreigners lead at Rome, the great sensations are purely
æsthetic. Thet's wut we shall git By tryin'squirtguns on the burnin'Pit; For the day never comes
when it'll du To recoil off Dooty like a worn-out shoe.

Wun'mt some folks rare up when we pull Out o'their eyes our Union
wool An'larn'em wut a p'lit'cle shave is!"

I hain't no call to bore ye coz ye're tough; My lungs are sound, an'our
own v'ice delights Our ears, but even kebbigeheads hez rights.



The lady was proceeding in her story, when the coach drove into the inn where the company were
to dine, sorely to the dissatisfaction of Mr Adams, whose ears were the most hungry part about
him; he being, as the reader may perhaps guess, of an insatiable curiosity, and heartily desirous
of hearing the end of this amour, though he professed he could scarce wish success to a lady
of so inconstant a disposition. 

To the yolks add 1/ 2 a cup of milk, pinch of salt, pepper and 1/
2 a cup of bread crumbs.

Take out the steak and sift 1 tablespoonful of flour into the butter, stir until cupful. 27.-- Toad
in a Hole. Cover a platter an inch deep with hot well-boiled rice,
to which has been added 1 tablespoonful of melted butter.

Boil for 1 minute and serve.

Cut 1/ 2 a lb. Of cold meat into dice; wash 1/ 4 of a greased of barley, chop 2 onions very fine, put
all into a saucepan and dredge with flour, season with salt and pepper. When half done, set the pan
in the oven for a few minutes to set the middle of the omelet. Put 3
tablespoonfuls of butter into a frying pan and when hot, put in 2
lbs.

Of round steak; cook ten minutes.

Pare and slice 5 potatoes, add them to the stew and simmer an hour longer.
Add the oyster liquor and boil 1 minute, season; put back the steak,
cover and simmer 1/ 2 an hour, then add the oysters and 1 tablespoonful
lemon juice.

Fry in hot lard. Wash 1 pt. Of small oysters in a little water, drain into a saucepan and put this water on to
heat. 23.-- stewed Steak and Oyster Sauce. Cut 1 pt. Of meat into 1 inch
pieces and put them into a browned baking dish. Set it over a good fire,
being careful not to burn. Garnish with parsley. Cut into this very carefully
the well beaten whites; mix then.

Beat 2 eggs very light, add to it 1 pint of milk and pour it gradually
into 6 tablespoonfuls of flour, beating all the time.

Wash and parboil slices of liver, then roll each piece, in crumbs,
lightly in beaten egg, then in crumbs again.

24.-- Barley Stew. Add a qt. Of water and simmer about 2 hours. 21.-- Eggs on Rice.
Put 1 tablespoonful of butter into a frying pan; and as soon as
it is hot turn in the mixture.

Turn onto a hot platter and serve. On this serve six well-poached eggs.
As soon as it comes to a boil skim and set back.

22.-- baked Celery.

Rub smooth 2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 2 of flour, then beat in
the yolks of 3 eggs; stir this into 1 qt. Of veal stock and pour
it over the celery, cover with grated bread crumbs and dust the top
with grated cheese. 26.-- Calf's Liver fried in Crumbs. Beat 3 eggs
separately. Parboil a bunch of celery, using only the stalks; cut
into two inch lengths, put them into a baking dish. 25.-- Bread Omelet.
 These words occasioned
a dialogue between Adams and the host, in which there were two or three sharp replies, till
Joseph bad the latter know how to behave himself to his betters. At which the host (having
first strictly surveyed Adams) scornfully repeating the word "betters," flew into a rage, and,
telling Joseph he was as able to walk out of his house as he had been to walk into it, offered
to lay violent hands on him; which perceiving, Adams dealt him so sound a compliment over his
face with his fist, that the blood immediately gushed out of his nose in a stream. The host,
being unwilling to be outdone in courtesy, especially by a person of Adams's figure, returned
the favour with so much gratitude, that the parson's nostrils began to look a little redder
than usual. Upon which he again assailed his antagonist, and with another stroke laid him sprawling
on the floor.

The hostess, who was a better wife than so surly a husband deserved, seeing her husband all
bloody and stretched along, hastened presently to his assistance, or rather to revenge the
blow, which, to all appearance, was the last he would ever receive; when, lo! a pan full of
hog's blood, which unluckily stood on the dresser, presented itself first to her hands. She
seized it in her fury, and without any reflection, discharged it into the parson's face; and
with so good an aim, that much the greater part first saluted his countenance, and trickled
thence in so large a current down to his beard, and over his garments, that a more horrible
spectacle was hardly to be seen, or even imagined. All which was perceived by Mrs Slipslop,
who entered the kitchen at that instant. The demon has a thousand ways of deceiving us.

All
those to whom these genii attach themselves have a horror of them,
mistrust and fear them; and it rarely happens that these familiar
demons do not lead them to a dangerous end, unless they deliver themselves
from them by grave acts of religion and penance.

There is the story of a spirit, "which," says he who wrote it to me, "i no more doubt the truth of
than if i had been a witness of it." Count Despilliers, the father, being
a young man, and captain of cuirassiers, was in winter quarters in
Flanders.

One of his men came to him one day to beg that he would change his
landlord, saying that every night there came into his bed-room a spirit,
which would not allow him to sleep. The Count Despilliers sent him away,
and laughed at his simplicity. One day, when the superior was passing
by the chamber of the seminarist, he heard him talking with some
one; he entered, and asked who he was conversing with.

The youth affirmed that there was no one in his room, and, in fact, the superior
could neither see nor discover any one there. Nevertheless, as he had
heard their conversation, the young man owned that for some years
he had been attended by a familiar genius, who rendered him every
service that a domestic could have done, and had promised him great
advantages in the ecclesiastical profession.

The superior pressed him to give some proofs of what he said. He ordered the genius to set a chair for
the superior; the genius obeyed. Information of this was sent to
the archbishop, who did not think proper to give it publicity. The young
clerk was sent away, and this singular adventure was buried in silence. All
those who had taken the other road were either killed or made prisoners
by the enemy's cavalry. It is doubtful whether the elves, of which
so many things are related, are good or bad spirits; for the faith
of the church admits nothing between these two kinds of genii.

Every genius is either good or bad; but as there are in heaven many
mansions, as the Gospel says, [291] and as there are among the blessed,
various degrees of glory, differing from each other, so we may believe
that there are in hell various degrees of pain and punishment for
the damned and the demons.

But are
they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible, and divert themselves in disquieting the living?
why do they attach themselves to certain spots, and certain persons, rather than to others? Bodin [285]
speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still living at the
time he wrote, which was in 1588.

This person had a familiar who from the age of thirty-seven had given him good advice respecting his
conduct, sometimes to correct his faults, sometimes to make him practice virtue, or to assist him;
resolving the difficulties which he might find in reading holy books, or giving him good counsel
upon his own affairs.

He usually rapped at his door at three or four o'clock in the morning to awaken him; and as that person mistrusted
all these things, fearing that it might be an evil angel, the spirit showed himself in broad day, striking
gently on a glass bowl, and then upon a bench. When he desired to do anything good and useful,
the spirit touched his right ear; but if it was anything wrong and dangerous, he touched his left ear; so
that from that time nothing occurred to him of which he was not warned beforehand. Sometimes he heard
his voice; and one day, when he found his life in imminent danger,
he saw his genius, under the form of a child of extraordinary beauty,
who saved him from it.

William, Bishop of Paris, [286] says that he knew a rope-dancer who had a
familiar spirit which played and joked with him, and prevented him from
sleeping, throwing something against the wall, dragging off the bed-clothes,
or pulling him about when he was in bed.

We know by the account of a very sensible person that it has happened to him in the open country, and
in the day time, to feel his cloak and boots pulled at, and his hat thrown down; then he heard the
bursts of laughter and the voice of a person deceased and well known
to him, who seemed to rejoice at it.

The discovery of things hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams, or otherwise, can hardly be
ascribed to anything but to familiar spirits.

A man who did not know a word of Greek came to M. De Saumaise, senior,
a counselor of the Parliament of Dijon, and showed him these words,
which he had heard in the night, as he slept, and which he wrote down
in french characters on awaking: "Apithi ouc osphraine tén sén apsychian."
he asked him what that meant.

M. De Saumaise told him it meant, "save yourself; do you not perceive
the death with which you are threatened?" upon this hint, the man
removed, and left his house, which fell down the following night.

[287] the same story is related, with a little difference, by another
author, who says that the circumstance happened at Paris; [288] that
the genius spoke in Syriac, and that M. De Saumaise being consulted,
replied, "go out of your house, for it will fall in ruins to-day,
at nine o'clock in the evening." it is but too much the custom in
reciting stories of this kind to add a few circumstances by way of
embellishment.

Gassendi, in the Life of M. Peiresch, associate that M. Peiresch, going one day to Nismes, with one
of his friends, named M. Rainier, the latter, having heard Peiresch
talking in his sleep in the night, waked him, and asked him what he
said.

M. Descartes replied that he had found the book in question; and also
the verses he had sent were in the place he pointed out; that one of his
friends had promised him a copy of that work, and he would send it
him by the first opportunity. We have already said something of the spirit,
or familiar genius of Socrates, which prevented him from doing certain
things, but did not lead him to do others.

It is asserted [290] that, after the defeat of the Athenian army,
commanded by Laches, Socrates, flying like the others, with this Athenian
general, and being arrived at a spot where several roads met, Socrates
would not follow the road taken by the other fugitives; and when they
asked him the reason, he replied, because his genius drew him away
from it.

The event justified his foresight.

They
arrived at Nismes, and going about the town, Peiresch recognized the
goldsmith whom he had seen in his dream; and on his asking him if
he had nothing curious, the goldsmith told him he had a gold medal,
or coin, of Julius Cæsar.

Peiresch
asked him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four crowns. Peiresch paid them, and was delighted to see his
dream so happily accomplished. Here is a dream much more singular
than the preceding, although a little in the same style. [289] a learned
man of Dijon, after having wearied himself all day with an important
passage in a greek poet, without being able to comprehend it at all,
went to bed thinking of this difficulty.

At last, he returned a third time to the charge, and protested to his captain that he could bear it no longer,
and should be obliged to desert if his lodgings were not changed. Despilliers,
who knew the soldier to be brave and reasonable, said to him, with
an oath, "i will go this night and sleep with you, and see what is
the matter." at ten o'clock in the evening, the captain repaired to
his soldier's lodging, and having laid his pistols ready primed upon
the table, he lay down in his clothes, his sword by his side, with
his soldier, in a bed without curtains.

About midnight he heard something which came into the room, and in
a moment turned the bed upside down, covering the captain and the soldier
with the mattress and paillasse. Why do they make themselves perceptible
only during a certain time, and that sometimes a short space? i could
willingly conclude that what is said of them is mere fancy and prejudice;
but their reality has been so often experienced by the discourse they
have held, and the actions they have performed in the presence of
many wise and enlightened persons, that i cannot persuade myself that
among the great number of stories related of them there are not at
least some of them true.

It may be remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good,
to prayer, or piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions.
If they do no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments
of the damned, on the efficacy of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt
not those men or animals which are found on the spot where they may
be perceived, it is because God sets bounds to their malice and power.

    
    

One day he filled an iron pot with wild herbs, bran, and leaves of trees, and, having put some water
in it, carried it to the ally or walk in the garden; another time
he suspended it to the pot-hook over the fire.

The servant having broken two eggs into a little dish for the curé's supper, the genius broke two
more into it in his presence, the maid having merely turned to get
some salt.

The curé having gone to say mass, on his return found all his earthenware, furniture, linen, bread, milk,
and other things disperse about over the house. Sometimes the spirit would form circles on the
paved floor, at one time with stones, at another with corn or leaves, and in
a moment, before the eyes of all present, all was overturned and deranged.
Tired with these games, the curé sent for the mayor of the place, and
told him he was resolved to quit the parsonage house.

Whilst this was passing, the curé's niece came in, and told them that the genius had torn up
the cabbages in the garden, and had put some money in a hole in the ground. They went there, and found things
exactly as she had said.

Despilliers had great trouble to disengage himself and find again his
sword and pistols, and he returned home much confounded.

The horse-soldier had a new lodging the very next day, and slept quietly
in the house of his new host. M. Despilliers related this adventure to any
one who would listen to it. He was an intrepid man, who had never
known what it was to fall back before danger. He died field-marshal of
the armies of the Emperor Charles VI. And governor of the fortress
of Ségedin.

His son has confirmed this adventure to me within a short time, as having
heard it from his father. The person who writes to me adds: "i doubt not
that spirits sometimes return; but i have found myself in a great
many places which it was said they haunted.

I have precisely tried several times to see them, but i have never
seen any. I found myself once with more than four thousand persons, who
all said they saw the spirit; i was the only one in the assembly who
saw nothing." so writes me a very worthy officer, this year, 1745,
in the same letter wherein he relates the affair of M. Despilliers.

Footnotes: [284] St. Sulpit. Sever. Dialog. Ii. C. 14, 15. [285]
Bodin Demonomania, lib. Ii. C. 2. [286] Guillelm. Paris, 2 Part. Quæst.
2, c. 8. [287] grot. Epist. Part. Ii. Ep.

405. [288] they affirm that it happened at dijon, in the family of the
MM. Surmin, in which a constant tradition has perpetuated the memory
of the circumstance. [289] Continuation of the Count de Gabalis, at
the Hague, 1708, p. 55. [290] Cicero, de Divinat. Lib.

I. [291] John xiv. 2. CHAPTER XXXI. SPIRITS that keep WATCH over TREASURE. Everybody acknowledges that there
is an infinity of riches buried in the earth, or lost under the
waters by shipwrecks; they fancy that the demon, whom they look upon
as the god of riches, the god mammon, the Pluto of the pagans, is
the depositary, or at least the guardian, of these treasures.

We know also that the ancients very often interred vast treasures in
the tombs of the dead; either that the dead might make use of them
in the other world, or that their souls might keep guard over them
in those gloomy places.

Job seems to make allusion to this ancient custom, when he says, [293]
"would to God I had never been born: i should now sleep with the kings
and great ones of the earth, who built themselves solitary places; like
unto those who seek for treasure, and are rejoiced when they find
a tomb;" doubtless because they hope to find great riches therein.

There were very precious things in the tomb of Cyrus.

CHAPTER xxx. Some other EXAMPLES of ELVES. On the 25th of August, 1746, i received a letter from
a very worthy man, the curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the mountains of Vosges,
in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in lower Alsatia, Diocese of Metz.

In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June, 1740, at eight o'clock
in the morning, he being in his kitchen, with his niece and the servant,
he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was placed on the ground turn
round three or four times, without its being set in motion by any one. A
moment after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from the
next room into the same kitchen, in presence of the same persons,
without their seeing the hand which threw it.

The next day, at nine o'clock in the morning, some panes of glass
were broken, and through these panes were thrown some stones, with
what appeared to them supernatural dexterity.

The spirit
never ache anybody, and never did anything in the night time, but always
during the day. The curé employed the prayers marked out in the ritual
to bless his house, and thenceforth the genius broke no more panes
of glass; but he continued to throw stones at the curé's people,
without hurting them, however.

If they
fetched water from the fountain, he threw stones into the bucket; and
afterwards he began to serve in the kitchen. One day, as the servant
was planting some cabbages in the garden, he pulled them up as fast
as she planted them, and laid them in a heap.

It was in vain
that she stormed, threatened, and swore in the german style; the genius
continued to play his tricks. One day, when a bed in the garden had been
dug and prepared, the spade was found thrust two feet deep into the ground,
without any trace being seen of him who had thus stuck it in; but
they observed that on the spade was a riband, and by the spade were
two pieces of two soles, which the girl had locked up the evening
before in a little box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter,
and putting it either all round the kitchen, or in the porch, or
even in the cemetery, and always in broad daylight.

Some days after, the same horseman came back and made the same request
to him; the only reply of the captain would have been a volley of
blows with a stick, had not the soldier avoided them by a prompt flight.

Peiresch answered him, "i dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler had offered
me a medal of Julius Cæsar, for which he asked four crowns, and as i
was going to count him down his money, you waked me, to my great regret."
they picked up the money, which what the curé had put away in a place
not locked up; and in a moment after they found it anew, with some
liards, two by two, scattered about the kitchen.

The agents of the Count de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went to the curé's house, and persuaded
him that it was all the effect of a spell; they told him to take two
pistols, and fire them off at the place where he might observe there
were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these officers
two pieces of silver; and from that time he was no longer perceived
in the dwelling.

The circumstances of two pistols terminating the scenes with which
the elf had disturbed the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting
imp was no other than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had
been obliged to send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself
had done all that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had had
credit enough to send in his stead a familiar genius who puzzled
the curé for some weeks; for, if he were not bodily in this house,
what had he to fear from any pistol shot which might have been fired
at him? and if he was there bodily, how could he render himself invisible?
i have been told several times that a monk of the cistercian order
had a familiar genius who attended upon him, arranged his chamber,
and prepared everything ready for him when he was coming back from
the country.

They were so accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these
signs, and he always arrived. It is affirmed of another monk of the
same order that he had a familiar spirit, who warned him, not only
of what passed in the house, but also of what happened out of it;
and one day he was awakened three times, and warned that some monks
were quarreling, and were ready to come to blows; he ran to the spot,
and put an end to the dispute.

St. Sulpicius Severus [284] relates that St. Martin often had conversations
with the holy Virgin, and other saints, and even with the demons and false
gods of paganism; he talked with them, and learned from them many secret
things. One day, when a council was being held at Nîmes, where he had
not thought proper to be present, but the decisions of which he desired
to know, being in a boat with St. Sulpicius, but apart from others,
as usual with him, an angel appeared, and informed him what had passed
in this assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made as to the day and hour when the council was held,
and it was found to be at the same hour at which the angel had appeared
to Martin.

We have been told several times that a young ecclesiastic, in a seminary at
Paris, had a genius who waited upon him, and arranged his room and
his clothes.

During
his sleep, his genius transported him in spirit to Stockholm, introduced
him into the palace of Queen Christina, conducted him into the library,
and showed him a small volume, which was even what he sought.

He opened it, read in it ten or twelve greek verses, which absolutely
cleared down the difficulty which had so long beset him; he awoke, and
wrote down the verses he had seen at Stockholm. On the morrow, he wrote
to M. Descartes, who was then in Sweden, and begged of him to look
in such a place, and in such a division of the library, if the book,
of which he sent him the description, were there, and if the greek
verses which he sent him were to be read in it.

 The old gentleman answered, "Four will do, four will do;" and then took
a turn from horses to extravagance and from extravagance to horses, till he came round to the
equipage again; whither he was no sooner arrived than Bellarmine brought him back to the point;
but all to no purpose; he made his escape from that subject in a minute; till at last the lover
declared, "That in the present situation of his affairs it was impossible for him, though he
loved Leonora more than tout le monde, to marry her without any fortune." To which the father
answered, "He was sorry that his daughter must lose so valuable a match; that, if he had an
inclination, at present it was not in his power to advance a shilling: that he had had great
losses, and been at great expenses on projects; which, though he had great expectation from
them, had yet produced him nothing: that he did not know what might happen hereafter, as on
the birth of a son, or such accident; but he would make no promise, or enter into any article,
for he would not break his vow for all the daughters in the world."

In short, ladies, to keep you no longer in suspense, Bellarmine, having tried every argument
and persuasion which he could invent, and finding them all ineffectual, at length took his
leave, but not in order to return to Leonora; he proceeded directly to his own seat, whence,
after a few days' stay, he returned to Paris, to the great delight of the French and the honour
of the English nation.

But as soon as he arrived at his home he presently despatched a messenger with the following
epistle to Leonora:--

"ADORABLE AND CHARMANTE,--I am sorry to have the honour to tell you I am not the heureux person
destined for your divine arms. Your papa hath told me so with a politesse not often seen on
this side Paris. You may perhaps guess his manner of refusing me. Ah, mon Dieu! You will certainly
believe me, madam, incapable myself of delivering this triste message, which I intend to try
the French air to cure the consequences of. The onset is, as a rule, the same as that observed in the type.
If the animal be now carefully observed it will be attracted only for a moment at a time. There
is no dread of water, as the name "hydrophobia" implies, and as is commonly thought, the animal often
attempting to drink, but owing to the paralysis of the muscles of the throat
this is impossible.

The appetite gradually diminishes, it is prolonged and terminates
in a higher pitched note simulating a cry. The paralytic type of the disease
occurs in fifteen or twenty per cent. of the cases.

Weakness becomes very marked, and the animal finally lies down in a stupor and dies. As the symptoms
gradually progress the dog shows signs of delirium and begins to wander. There is described a peculiar
bark at this stage of the disease; instead of ending as it ordinarily does, food is refused, and swallowing
becomes difficult. This is supposed to be very characteristic at this
stage of the affection. He seeks dark places and apparently prefers to
be by himself.

As a rule, he goes about with his tail hung, mouth wide open, and with a wild
look in his eyes, biting as he goes, anything that happens to be
directly in his path; seldom does he turn aside to disturb anything
or anybody.

Inability then to swallow either water or solid food is one of the surest
and most reliable signs of rabies.

As the malady progresses the animal becomes more and more restless, and develops a desire to tear
those things about him into pieces. The entire course of this type
may last from six to ten days; generally it is four or five.

In the later stages of the disease paralysis generally develops, beginning
in the hind legs and soon involving the body.

In this stage of the disease the dog's appetite is good and may be
excessive; he responds to orders although his attention can be seen
that he cannot swallow.

 Indeed, true it is, the parson had exhibited a fresh instance
of his absence of mind; for he was so pleased with having got Joseph into the coach, that he
never once thought of the beast in the stable; and, finding his legs as nimble as he desired,
he sallied out, brandishing a crabstick, and had kept on before the coach, mending and slackening
his pace occasionally, so that he had never been much more or less than a quarter of a mile
distant from it.

Mrs Slipslop desired the coachman to overtake him, which he attempted, but in vain; for the
faster he drove the faster ran the parson, often crying out, "Aye, aye, catch me if you can;"
till at length the coachman swore he would as soon attempt to drive after a greyhound, and,
giving the parson two or three hearty curses, he cry'd, "Softly, softly, boys," to his horses,
which the civil beasts immediately obeyed.

But we will be more courteous to our reader than he was to Mrs Slipslop; and, leaving the coach
and its company to pursue their journey, we will carry our reader on after parson Adams, who
stretched forwards without once looking behind him, till, having left the coach full three
miles in his rear, he came to a place where, by keeping the extremest track to the right, it
was just barely possible for a human creature to miss his way. This track, however, did he
keep, as indeed he had a wonderful capacity at these kinds of bare possibilities, and, travelling
in it about three miles over the plain, he arrived at the summit of a hill, whence looking
a great way backwards, and perceiving no coach in sight, he sat himself down on the turf, and,
pulling out his Aeschylus, determined to wait here for its arrival. 

It appears that, out of the whole number examined, rather more than 257 in each
1000 were found unfit for military service. It is curious to see how generally
the physical power among these men is in inverse ratio to the social and
political prominence of the class they represent. Out of 1000 unskilled laborers,
for instance, only 348 are physically disqualified; among tanners, only 216;
among iron-workers, 189. On the other hand, among lawyers, 544 out of 1000
are disqualified; among journalists, 740; among clergymen, 954.

Grave divines are horrified at the thought of admitting women to vote, since they cannot fight; though
not one in twenty of their own number is fit for military duty, if
he volunteered.

Of the editors who denounce woman suffrage, only about one in four
could himself carry a musket; while of the lawyers who fill Congress, the
majority could not be defenders of their country, but could only
be defended.

War is the last appeal, and happily in these days the rarest appeal,
of statesmanship. In the multifarious other duties that make up statesmanship
we cannot spare the brains, the self-devotion, and the enthusiasm of woman.
One of the most important treaties of modern history, the peace of Cambray,
in 1529, was negotiated, after previous attempts had failed, by two
women,-- Margaret, aunt of Charles V., and Louisa, mother of Francis
I. Voltaire said that Christina of Sweden was the only sovereign of
her time who maintained the dignity of the throne against Mazarin
and Richelieu.

Frederick the Great said that the Seven Years'War was waged against three
women,-- Elizabeth of Russia, Maria Theresa, and Mme. Pompadour. There is nothing
impotent in the statesmanship of women when they are admitted to exercise
it: they are only powerless for good when they are obliged to obtain
by wheedling and flattery a sway that should be recognized, responsible,
and limited.

In case of revolution, the strength of the governing class in any country is not in its physical,
but in its mental power. Rank and money, and the power to influence and organize and command, are
merely different modifications of mental training, brought to bear
by somebody. In our country, without class distinctions, the same truth
can be easily shown.

Physical power lies mainly in the hands of the masses: wherever a class
or profession possesses more than its numerical share of power, it has
usually less than its proportion of physical vigor.

This is easily shown from the vast body of evidence collected during
our civil war.

In the volume containing the medical statistics of the Provost Marshal General's Bureau, we have the tabulated
reports of about 600,000 persons subject to draft, and of about 500,000 recruits, substitutes, and drafted men;
showing the precise physical condition of more than a million men.
Boswell wrote to Johnson in 1776 for advice, urging a series of objections,
physiological and moral, to the inheritance of a family estate by
a woman; though, as he magnanimously admits, "they should be treated
with great affection and tenderness, and always participate of the
prosperity of the family."

This admirable statement should be carefully pondered by those who
hold that suffrage should be only coextensive with military duty.

The position that woman cannot properly vote because she cannot fight for her vote efficiently
is precisely like the position of feudalism and of Boswell, that she could not properly hold real estate
because she could not fight for it.

Each position may have had some plausibility in its day, but the same current of events has made each obsolete.
There is no country in Europe, I suppose, where the hereditary aristocracy
is physically equal to that of England, or where the intellectual
class has so good a physique.

But set either the House of Lords or the "Saturday Review" contributors
upon a hand-to-hand fight against an equal number of "navvies" or
"coster-mongers," and the patricians would have about as much chance
as a crew of Vassar girls in a boat-race with Yale or Harvard.

Take the men of England alone, and it is hardly too much to say that
physical force, instead of being the basis of political power in any
class, is apt to be found in inverse ratio to it.

The political event of the age, the overthrow of American slavery, would
not have been accomplished without the "secular arm" of Grant and
Sherman, let us agree: but neither would it have been accomplished without
the moral power of Garrison the non-resistant, and Harriet Beecher Stowe
the woman. When the work is done, it is unfair to disfranchise any of
the participants. Under the feudal system it would have been absurd that
women should hold real estate, for the next armed warrior could dispossess her.
By Gail Hamilton's reasoning, it is equally absurd now: "One man
is stronger than one woman, and ten men are stronger than ten women;
and the nineteen millions of men in this country will subdue, capture,
and execute or expel the nineteen millions of women just as soon as
they set about it."

It was the peaceful citizen who needed the guaranty of law against brute force. But can laws be executed
without brute force? Not without a certain amount of it, but that
amount under civilization grows less and less. Just in proportion
as the masses are enfranchised, statutes execute themselves without
crossing bayonets.

"In a republic," said De Tocqueville, "if laws are not always respectable, they are always respected."
If every step in freedom has brought about a more peaceable state of society, why should that
process stop at this precise point? Besides, there is no possibility in nature of a political division
in which all the men shall be on one side and all the women on the
other. The mutual influence of the sexes forbids it. The very persons
who hint at such a fear refute themselves at other times, by arguing
that "women will always be sufficiently represented by men," or that
"every woman will vote as her husband thinks, and it will merely double
the numbers."

As a matter of fact, the law will prevail in all English-speaking nations: a few men fighting
for it will be stronger than many fighting against it; and if those few have both the law and the women
on their side, there will be no trouble. The truth is that in this age cedant arma togae: it
is the civilian who rules on the throne or behind it, and who makes
the fighting-men his mere agents.

It is a great pleasure when an opponent of justice is willing to fall back thus frankly upon the Rob Roy
theory:-- "The good old rule Sufficeth him, the simple plan That
they should take who have the power, And they should keep who can."

It is easy, I think, to show that the theory is utterly false, and
that the basis of civilized society is not physical force, but, on
the contrary, brains.

In the city where the "Saturday Review" is published, there are three regiments of "Guards" which are
the boast of the English army, and are believed by their officers to be the finest troops in
the world. They have deteriorated in size since the Crimean war; but I believe that the men of one regiment
still average six feet two inches in height; and I am sure that nobody ever saw them in line without noticing
the contrast between these magnificent men and the comparatively
puny officers who command them. These officers are from the highest
social rank in England, the governing classes; and if it were the
whole object of this military organization to give a visible proof
of the utter absurdity of the "Saturday Review's" theory, it could
not be better done.

If, then, a political theory so utterly breaks down when applied to men, why should we insist on
resuscitating it in order to apply it to women? The truth is that as civilization advances the
world is governed more and more unequivocally by brains; and whether those brains are deposited
in a strong body or a weak one becomes a matter of less and less
importance.

But it is only in the very first stage of barbarism that mere physical strength makes mastery; and
the long head has controlled the long arm since the beginning of recorded time. And it must
be remembered that even these statistics very imperfectly represent the case. MANNERS REPEAL LAWS There is in
Boswell's "Life of Johnson" a correspondence which is well worth reading by both advocates and opponents
of woman suffrage. Boswell, who was of an old Scotch family, had a difference of opinion with his
father about an entailed estate which had descended to them. Yonder policeman at the corner looks big and
formidable: he protects the women and overawes the boys. But away in some
corner of the City Hill there is some quiet man, out of uniform, perhaps
a consumptive or a dyspeptic or a cripple, who can overawe the burliest
policeman by his authority as city marshal or as mayor.

So an army is but a larger police; and its official head is that plain man at the White House, who makes or unmakes,
not merely brevet-brigadiers, but major-generals in command,-- who can by the stroke of the
pen convert the most powerful man of the army into the most powerless. Take away the occupant
of the position, and put in a woman, and will she become impotent because her name is Elizabeth or Maria
Theresa? It is brains that more and more govern the world; and whether those brains be on the
throne, or at the ballot-box, they will soon make the owner's sex
a subordinate affair.

If woman is also strong in the affections, so much the better. "Win the hearts of your subjects," said Lord
Burleigh to Queen Elizabeth, "and you will have their hands and purses." Boswell wished the title so
adjusted as to cut off all possibility of female heirship. His father, on the other hand, wished to recognize such
a contingency. Those who in these days believe in giving woman the
ballot argue precisely as Dr. Johnson did in 1776.

Times have changed, manners have softened, education has advanced, public opinion now acts more
forcibly; and the reference to physical force, though still implied, is implied more and more remotely.
The moral is that the love of notoriety is soon amply filled, in a reformer's experience, and that
he will not, as a rule, sacrifice home and comfort, money and friends, without some stronger inducement.
This is certainly true of most of the men who have interested themselves in this particular
movement, the "weak-minded men," as the reporters, with witty antithesis, still describe them; and
it must be much the same with the "strong-minded women" who share
their base career.

And it is to be remembered, above all, that, considered as an engine
for obtaining notoriety, the woman-suffrage agitation is a great waste
of energy.

The same net result could have been won with far less expenditure
in other ways.

There is not a woman connected with it who could not have achieved far more real publicity as
a manager of charity fairs or as a sensation letter-writer. She could have done this, too, with far less trouble,
without the loss of a single genteel friend, without forfeiting a single social attention, without
having a single ill-natured thing said about her-- except perhaps that she bored people, a charge
to which the highest and lowest forms of prominence are equally open. Nay, she might have done even
more than this, if notoriety was her sole aim: for she might have become a "variety" minstrel or a
female pedestrian; she might have written a scandalous novel; she might
have got somebody to aim at her that harmless pistol, which has helped the
fame of so many a wandering actress, while its bullet somehow never hits
anything but the wall. All this she might have done, and obtained
a notoriety beyond doubt.

Instead of this, she has preferred to prowl about, picking up a precarious
publicity by giving lectures to willing lyceums, writing books for
eager publishers, organizing schools, setting up hospitals, and achieving
for her sex something like equal rights before the law.

Either she has shown herself, as a seeker after notoriety, to be a most foolish or ill-judging person,--
or else, as was said of Washington's being a villain, "the epithet is not felicitous." THE ROB ROY
THEORY "The Saturday Review," in an article which denounces all equality in marriage laws and
all plans of woman suffrage, admits frankly the practical obstacles in the way of the process
of voting. "Possibly the presence of women as voters would tend still further to promote order
than has been done by the ballot." It plants itself wholly on one objection, which goes far deeper,
thus:-- "If men choose to say that women are not their equals, women have nothing to do but to give in.
If we were to distribute political power with reference to the" physical
basis "which the"

Saturday Review "talks about, it would be a wholly new distribution,
and would put things more hopelessly upside down than did the worst
phase of the French Commune.

Physical force, the ultimate basis of all society and all government,
must be on the side of the men; and those who have the key of the
position will not consent permanently to abandon it."

Very well: why, then, do not all the landless men in a town unite, and take away the landed property of
all the women? Simply because we now live in civilized society and under a reign of law; because those
men's respect for law is greater than their appetite for property; or, if you prefer, because even
those landless men know that their own interest lies, in the long-run, on the side of law. It will be
precisely the same with voting. When any community is civilized up to the point of enfranchising women,
it will be civilized up to the point of sustaining their vote, as
it now sustains their property rights, by the whole material force
of the community.

When the thing is once established, it will no more occur to anybody that a woman's vote is powerless because
she cannot fight, than it now occurs to anybody that her title to real estate is invalidated by
the same circumstance. Woman is in the world; she cannot be got rid of: she must be a serf or an
equal; there is no middle ground. We have outgrown the theory of serfdom in a thousand ways, and may as well
abandon the whole. Women have now a place in society: their influence will be exerted, at any
rate, in war and in peace, legally or illegally; and it had better
be exerted in direct, legitimate, and responsible methods, than in
ways that are dark, and by tricks that have not even the merit of
being plain.

DANGEROUS VOTERS One of the few plausible objections brought against women's voting is this:
that it would demoralize the suffrage by letting in very dangerous voters; that virtuous women would
not vote, and vicious women would. They do not apply to the whole male sex, but actually
to the picked portion only, to the men presumed to be of military age, excluding the very old and
the very young. Were these included, the proportion unfit for military
duty would of course be far greater.

Moreover, it takes no account of courage or cowardice, patriotism
or zeal. How much all these considerations tell upon the actual proportion may be
seen from the fact that in the town where I am writing, for instance, out
of some twelve thousand inhabitants and about three thousand voters,
there are only some three hundred who actually served in the civil
war,-- a number too small to exert a perceptible influence on any
local election.

When we see the community yielding up its voting power into the hands of those who have actually done military
service, it will be time enough to exclude women for not doing such service. If the alleged physical
basis operates as an exclusion of all non-combatants, it should surely give a monopoly to the actual combatants.
THE VOTES OF NON-COMBATANTS The tendency of modern society is not to concentrate power in the hands
of the few, but to give a greater and greater share to the many.

Read Froissart's Chronicles, and Scott's novels of chivalry, and you will see how thoroughly
the difference between patrician and plebeian was then a difference of physical strength. The knight, being
better nourished and better trained, was apt to be the bodily superior of the peasant, to begin
with; and this strength was reinforced by armor, weapons, horse, castle, and all the resources
of feudal warfare. With this greater strength went naturally the assumption
of greater political power. To the heroes of "Ivanhoe," or "The Fair Maid
of Perth," it would have seemed as absurd that yeomen and lackeys
should have any share in the government, as it would seem to the members
in an American legislature that women should have any such share.

In a contest of mailed knights, any number of unarmed men were but so many women. As Sir Philip Sidney
said, "The wolf asketh not how many the sheep may be." But time and advancing civilization have tended
steadily in one direction. "He giveth power to the weak, and to them who have no might He increaseth strength."
Every step in the extension of political rights has consisted in
opening them to a class hitherto humbler.

From kings to nobles, from nobles to burghers, from burghers to yeomen;
in short, from strong to weak, from high to low, from rich to poor.

All this is but the unconscious following out of one sure principle,--
that legislation is mainly for the protection of the weak against the strong,
and that for this purpose the weak must be directly represented. The strong
are already protected by their strength: it is the weak who need
all the vantage-ground that votes and legislatures can give them.

The feudal chiefs were stronger without laws than with them. "Take care of yourselves in Sutherland,"
was the anxious message of the old Highlander: "the law has come
as far as Tain."

 "Be of good cheer, damsel," said he, "you
are no longer in danger of your ravisher, who, I am terribly afraid, lies dead at my feet;
but God forgive me what I have done in defence of innocence!" The poor wretch, who had been
some time in recovering strength enough to rise, and had afterwards, during the engagement,
stood trembling, being disabled by fear even from running away, hearing her champion was victorious,
came up to him, but not without apprehensions even of her deliverer; which, however, she was
soon relieved from by his courteous behaviour and gentle words. They were both standing by
the body, which lay motionless on the ground, and which Adams wished to see stir much more
than the woman did, when he earnestly begged her to tell him "by what misfortune she came,
at such a time of night, into so lonely a place." She acquainted him, "She was travelling towards
London, and had accidentally met with the person from whom he had delivered her, who told her
he was likewise on his journey to the same place, and would keep her company; an offer which,
suspecting no harm, she had accepted; that he told her they were at a small distance from an
inn where she might take up her lodging that evening, and he would show her a nearer way to
it than by following the road; that if she had suspected him (which she did not, he spoke so
kindly to her), being alone on these downs in the dark, she had no human means to avoid him;
that, therefore, she put her whole trust in Providence, and walked on, expecting every moment
to arrive at the inn; when on a sudden, being come to those bushes, he desired her to stop,
and after some rude kisses, which she resisted, and some entreaties, which she rejected, he
laid violent hands on her, and was attempting to execute his wicked will, when, she thanked
G--, he timely came up and prevented him." Adams encouraged her for saying she had put her
whole trust in Providence, and told her, "He doubted not but Providence had sent him to her
deliverance, as a reward for that trust. He wished indeed he had not deprived the wicked wretch
of life, but G--'s will be done;" said, "He hoped the goodness of his intention would excuse
him in the next world, and he trusted in her evidence to acquit him in this." He was then silent,
and began to consider with himself whether it would be properer to make his escape, or to deliver
himself into the hands of justice; which meditation ended as the reader will see in the next
chapter.

The silence of Adams, added to the darkness of the night and loneliness of the place, struck
dreadful apprehension into the poor woman's mind; she began to fear as great an enemy in her
deliverer as he had delivered her from; and as she had not light enough to discover the age
of Adams, and the benevolence visible in his countenance, she suspected he had used her as
some very honest men have used their country; and had rescued her out of the hands of one rifler
in order to rifle her himself. Such were the suspicions she drew from his silence; but indeed
they were ill-grounded. He stood over his vanquished enemy, wisely weighing in his mind the
objections which might be made to either of the two methods of proceeding mentioned in the
last chapter, his judgment sometimes inclining to the one, and sometimes to the other; for
both seemed to him so equally advisable and so equally dangerous, that probably he would have
ended his days, at least two or three of them, on that very spot, before he had taken any resolution;
at length he lifted up his eyes, and spied a light at a distance, to which he instantly addressed
himself with Heus tu, traveller, heus tu! When his will was opened, it was by the side of Sarah he
wished to be buried: "As to my Body, I desire it may be interred under the Tombstone in the enclosed
ground in the Presbyterian Yard near where my first wife and children
are interred."

[76] This house was the social and political center of Alexandria. Such men as Charles Carroll,
Aaron Burr, John Paul Jones, John Marshall, Thomas Jefferson, George Mason, George Washington,
and the two Fairfaxes are but a few of those who gathered here for good food, good wine, and better talk.
Any visitor of importance was entertained at "coffee"; the house was often filled with music, and
"balls" were common.

The "Congress of Alexandria" met here Monday, April 14, 1755, and on the following Tuesday and
Wednesday, when with Braddock and the five colonial governors plans
were made for concerted action against the French and Indians.

Here that famous letter, still in existence, was written, urging upon the British government the
necessity of taxing the colonies. This letter set into movement a chain of events disastrous to
the mother country. It resulted in the loathed Stamp Act and led ultimately to the Revolution of
1775.

Carlyle was appointed collector of His Majesty's customs on the South
Potomac in 1758, succeeding his father-in-law, William Fairfax.

In 1762 he was importing race horses into the colony. These were imported, "just as they imported Madeira
wine and other luxuries."

One of the
early Maryland gazettes of July 29, 1762 carries the following advertisement: Imported by Carlyle&
Dalton in the ship Christian, Captain Stanly, and for sale, three horses [Thorne's Starling: Smith's
Hero, and Leary's Old England] and three mares [the other two being the Rock-mares Nos. 1 and
2] of full blood, viz: A ch. m. with a star and two white heels behind,
eight years old: Got by Wilson's Chestnut Arabian: her dam by Slipby,
brother to Snap's dam; and out of Menil [sic] the dam of Trunnion.

Menil was got by Partner: out of Sampson's-Sister, which was got by Greyhound: her grandam by
Curwen's Bay Barb: her g. grandam by Ld. D'Arcy's Arabian: her dam by Whiteshirt: out of a famous
mare of Ld.

Montagu's. JOHN CARLYLE [77] Alexandria, Va., July 1762.

In 1772 Carlyle took over the incompleted work on Christ Church and
carried it to completion.

In 1773 he bought pew No. 19. In 1774 he built the Presbyterian meetinghouse. In between times he was hunting at
Belvoir and Mount Vernon, dancing at Alexandria assemblies, sitting as town trustee and gentleman justice,
journeying to England and back, laying out and planting his garden, taking part in long,
hot arguments with his family and neighbors in the ever-widening
breach between the colonies and the mother country, breeding race
horses, and joining in the frolics of the Jockey Club. Heir to a title
old and honorable as it was, he ardently espoused the cause of the
colonies.

Too
ill for active military service, he nevertheless served as a member of
the Committee of Safety until his death in 1780, at the age of sixty. John Carlyle
divided his lands, named after the Scottish family holdings, Limkiln,
Bridekirk, Torthorwald Taken, between his two grandsons, Carlyle
Fairfax Whiting and John Carlyle Herbert.

To his daughter, Sarah Herbert, he left thirty feet on Fairfax Street and
one hundred feet on Cameron Street, to include his dryware house.
The mansion and all other property were for a brief period the property
of his only son.

In his will he expressed the utmost concern for the education of this boy, George William Carlyle, and urged
his executors to spare no expense and to send him to the best schools. Alas, for the plans of
men!

The lad, fired by the talk of father and friends, was serving in Lee's
Legion in 1781, and ere John Carlyle was moldering in his grave this boy
of seventeen years, spirited, brave, heir to large estates, great
fortune and honorable name, and to the title of Lord Carlyle, was
dead at Eutaw Springs, led by that boy hardly older than himself "Light
Horse Harry"

Lee. Enough of serious and sad history; let us in lighter vein go once more into the lovely paneled
blue room where not only weighty conferences occurred, but where, in lace and satin, noble figures threw aside
the cares of state and trod a measure to the tinkling of the spinet; where games of cards were filled
in and clothes hung to dry flap on the gallery, the outline is so
chaste in its classic form that nothing can destroy the illusion of
beauty.

No search of records reveals how or why these two houses stand back to back. Whether Jonah Thompson
built the first for his bank or business offices, or whether his family outgrew the house and
he needed more room is not known. The two are treated as one house in all the documentary evidence, and
one's curiosity, interest, and imagination are excited by the twin or married houses. One story has it that
Jonah Thompson built the rear or twin house for his eldest son so that the two families might
be together but with separate ménages. Captain John Dalton forged
a link between Mount Vernon, his family, and his posterity that was
stronger than he knew.

It was his granddaughter who was so deeply distressed at the ruin and
desolation of the home of Washington that she fired her daughter's
imagination with an idea that saved the spot for the nation.

This great-granddaughter of John Dalton was Ann Pamela Cunningham, whose name will ever be indissolubly connected
with Mount Vernon. In 1853 she formed the Mount Vernon Ladies'Association, and as its first regent
stirred the women of America with her ardor and directed the entire campaign until adequate funds were
collected. In 1859 John Augustine Washington sold the Mount Vernon estate to Miss Cunningham for two hundred
thousand dollars-- after the Virginia Legislature and the federal government
had both refused to acquire it. This sale faced on Cameron Street,
standing about the middle of lot No. 37, with an extensive garden
running the depth of the premises to the river, surrounded by outbuildings,
orchards, wells, and so on, as was the custom of the times.

His will mentioned the fact that he lived on this lot and left to
his daughter, Jenny Dalton (later Mrs. Thomas Herbert), his new brick
building on the corner of Fairfax and Cameron.

His will further stated that the house must be finished out of his
estate.

To his daughter, Catherine (later Mrs. William Bird), he left the
remainder of the lot which included his dwelling and another house
on that same lot, at the time occupied by John Page.

On February
27, 1750, John Dalton succeeded Richard Osborn as a trustee of the
town. His appointment was the first after the original selection of trustees
by the assembly in Williamsburg.

John Dalton was a partner of John Carlyle in the firm of Carlyle& Dalton, which for many years acted
as agent for the Mount Vernon produce.

He was a pew owner with George Washington at Christ Church, which he served as vestryman.
With his wife and daughter, it was purchased by Dalton for sixteen
pistoles.

Within three years Dalton had finished a small frame-and-brick cottage, neatly paneled, in which
he is purported to have lived and died. The house was negotiated by the Alexandria banker, John
W. Burke, who was appointed executor and guardian of John Augustine Washington's estate after he was killed
during the Civil War while on active duty as a member of General
Robert E. Lee's staff.

When the war broke out, Alexandria was occupied out, John Dalton purchased, on July 13, 1749, the first
lot put up for sale (No. 36) for the sum of nineteen pistoles. The lot faced the Potomac River and was
bounded by Water (now Lee) Street, Fairfax Street and lot No. 37. When the latter lot, which lay on Cameron
and Fairfax, was put up later in the day, he was a frequent visitor at Mount Vernon and a later chronicler
has asserted that he barely missed becoming the General's father-in-law.

A fox-hunter and horse-lover, in a company of Alexandria gentlemen or alone, he hunted with Washington
and bred his mares to the blooded Mount Vernon stud.

On January 12, 1769, Washington went up to Alexandria to "ye Monthly Ball." He lodged
with Captain Dalton and the next day being very bad he was "confined
there till afternoon by rain." [78] Sometimes when attending court he
"lodged at Captn.

Dalton's." [79] John Dalton's bequest to his daughter, Catherine, included
the home place. On April 24, 1793, Catherine and her husband, William
Bird, sold to Jonah Thompson and David Findley for£ 1,500 (about$
7,500) the property described as being in Fairfax Street, 60 feet
to the north of Cameron, and extending north upon Fairfax Street 119
feet 3 inches to the line of Herbert, Potts and Wilson, thence East
parallel to Cameron to cross Water and Union Streets into the Potomac
River, thence with a line parallel to Fairfax south 119 feet 3 inches,
and included houses, buildings, streets, lanes, alleys, and so on.

But the Birds reserved the right to the "use and occupation of the
dwelling House now occupied" and the kitchen and garden, until the "1st
day of October next" and also reserved unto Lanty Crowe the house
"demised unto him to the end of his term, he paying the annual rent
thereof unto the said Jonah Thompson and David Findley."

[80] Findley died within the year and Jonah Thompson bought from Amelia Findley, the mother and heir
of David Findley, equal and undivided portion of the already described
lot and paid her the sum of£ 500 12s. Jonah Thompson was an important
citizen of Alexandria.

He was a shipping merchant, velvet and damask were masters of the art of fighting,
riding, drinking, eating, and wooing. When a man knew what he wanted,
and got it by God's world, when men who wore satin, banker and large
property owner. He married Margaret Peyton and they had three sons,
Israel, William Edward, and James; a daughter, Mary Ann, married a Mr.
Popham, and another daughter, Eugenia, married a Mr. Morgan. In 1809
Jonah Thompson mortgaged this property to the Bank of Alexandria for$ 13,500,
which he paid within four years. In May 1850, the heirs of Jonah Thompson
sold to Benjamin Hallowell for$ 4,600 a lot beginning at the south
side of the alley which divided the block, running south 43 feet 7
inches.

Benjamin Hallowell, in turn, sold to James S. Hallowell for nine thousand dollars in April 1854, and from
James S. Hallowell and his wife why the property passed through various hands until it became St. Mary's Academy.
The Jonah Thompson house, part of it at least already built in 1793, is one of the most interesting houses
to be found anywhere. It is unusually large and has two handsome arched stone entrances. One,
although similar, obviously was added, as the line of demarcation
is plainly visible between the bricks.

The house has been sadly abused with no thought given its architectural
merits and much of the woodwork has been removed.

The
stair is perhaps the finest in Alexandria, with spindles and risers
carved in a more elaborate fashion than was the practice of the thrifty
Scotsmen of Alexandria.

At the rear of this large house, separated only by a narrow area, stands
another house, facing the long garden and originally the river.

The
front of this house boasts the loveliest bit of Georgian architecture left in the old seaport. A pure
Adam loggia, executed in stone, runs across the garden façade. While
arches are now indulged in and the pistoles changed hands.

Let us go into the room with its fine Adam mantel and its mahogany doors, and visualize again the terrapin
and the canvasback, the Madeira and Port so abundantly provided from that great kitchen below,
and the most famous wine cellar of its day in Alexandria.

    Let us stroll in the still lovely garden where the aroma of box and
honeysuckle mingle, and turn our thoughts once more to the inmates
of this fine, old house.

Built in the days when Virginia was a man's help and his own tenacity,
enjoying himself right lustily in the getting. Perchance Major John Carlyle,
clad in Saxon green laced with silver, will be wandering up and down
his box-bordered paths with his first love, Sarah Fairfax, watching
the moon light up the rigging of Carlyle& Dalton's great ships at
anchor just at the foot of the garden.

    

Chapter 3 The Married Houses [209-211 North Fairfax Street. Owner: Mrs. Herbert E. Marshburn.] When the
new town of Alexandria was laid by Union troops. The Union authorities knew of the sale of Mount
Vernon and repeated but futile efforts were made to find the securities.
Mr. Burke's home was searched no less than three times.

    The funds were never found in their hiding place of the soiled-clothes
basket. There they reposed until Mrs. Burke (née Trist, great-granddaughter
of Thomas Jefferson) and Mrs. Upton Herbert (née Tracy), both Philadelphia-born
ladies, sewed the bonds in their petticoats and with high heads carried
them through the Union lines to Washington and delivered them to George
W. Riggs, who held them for the duration of the war, when he returned
them to Alexandria-- and Mr. Burke.

An interesting sequel to the story occurred only a short time ago
when the last of John Augustine Washington's children died.

    Mr. Taylor Burke, grandson of John W. Burke, and president of the
Burke& Herbert Bank, administered the estate of the late Mrs. Eleanor
Washington Howard, and distributed her estate, composed of the remainder
of that purchase price, among her heirs.

[81] Chapter 4 The Fairfaxes of Belvoir and Alexandria Of the families
in Virginia closely associated with George Washington, none bore
so intimate a relation as that of Fairfax.

William
Fairfax, founder of the Virginia branch of the family, was born in 1691 in
Towlston in Yorkshire, England, the son of the Honorable Henry Fairfax,
Sheriff of Yorkshire, and grandson of the Fourth Lord Fairfax. Educated
as a member of the governing classes, he began his career in the navy,
later entering the colonial service.

Before he was twenty-six he had acted as chief justice of the Bahamas
and Governor of the Isle of Providence. Prior to 1717 he married
Sarah Walker of Nassau, daughter of Colonel Walker, by whom he had
four children, George William, Thomas, Anne, and Sarah.

In 1729, Colonel Fairfax was appointed Collector of the Port of Salem,
Massachusetts, and removed to that colony. In 1731 his wife died, and very
shortly afterward he married Deborah, widow of Francis Clarke and daughter
of Colonel Bartholomew Gedney of Salem, by whom he had three children,
Bryan, William Henry, and Hannah.

In 1734 Fairfax came to Virginia as agent for his first cousin, Thomas,
Sixth Lord Fairfax (who, by direct inheritance from a royal grant
of Charles II, had come into possession of some five million acres
of Virginia land lying between the Rappahannock and the Potomac, and
extending from Chesapeake Bay to the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains,
known to Virginians as the Northern Neck); and to serve as Collector
of Customs for the South Potomac.

Fairfax first went to Westmoreland, where he was associated with the Washington and Lee families.
Next he moved to King George, and lived at Falmouth. By 1741 he
was representing Prince William County in the House of Burgesses.

Colonel Fairfax was elevated to "His Majesty's Council of State" three years later. Becoming President of
the Council in 1744, he continued in that office until his death.
About this time William Fairfax completed his dwelling house, Belvoir,
situated on a high bluff overlooking the Potomac River, halfway between
Mount Vernon and Gunston Hall.

It was described by Washington in an advertisement as having "four
convenient rooms and a wide Hall on the first floor." In one of these
"convenient rooms," more than two hundred years ago on July 19, 1743,
Anne, eldest daughter of Colonel Fairfax was married to Lawrence
Washington of Mount Vernon.


"There's one," says he, turning to the parson of the parish, who was present, "will tell us
immediately." The parson, taking up the book, and putting on his spectacles and gravity together,
muttered some words to himself, and then pronounced aloud--"Ay, indeed, it is a Greek manuscript;
a very fine piece of antiquity. I make no doubt but it was stolen from the same clergyman from
whom the rogue took the cassock." "What did the rascal mean by his Aeschylus?" says the justice.
"Pooh!" answered the doctor, with a contemptuous grin, "do you think that fellow knows anything
of this book? Aeschylus! ho! ho! I see now what it is--a manuscript of one of the fathers.
I know a nobleman who would give a great deal of money for such a piece of antiquity. Ay, ay,
question and answer. The beginning is the catechism in Greek. Ay, ay, Pollaki toi: What's your
name?"--"Ay, what's your name?" says the justice to Adams; who answered, "It is Aeschylus,
and I will maintain it."--"Oh! it is," says the justice: "make Mr Aeschylus his mittimus. I
will teach you to banter me with a false name."

One of the company, having looked steadfastly at Adams, asked him, "If he did not know Lady
Booby?" Upon which Adams, presently calling him to mind, answered in a rapture, "O squire!
are you there? I believe you will inform his worship I am innocent."--"I can indeed say," replied
the squire, "that I am very much surprized to see you in this situation:" and then, addressing
himself to the justice, he said, "Sir, I assure you Mr Adams is a clergyman, as he appears,
and a gentleman of a very good character. I wish you would enquire a little farther into this
affair; for I am convinced of his innocence."--"Nay," says the justice, "if he is a gentleman,
and you are sure he is innocent, I don't desire to commit him, not I: I will commit the woman
by herself, and take your bail for the gentleman: look into the book, clerk, and see how it
is to take bail--come--and make the mittimus for the woman as fast as you can."--"Sir," cries
Adams, "I assure you she is as innocent as myself."--"Perhaps," said the squire, "there may
be some mistake! pray let us hear Mr Adams's relation."--"With all my heart," answered the
justice; "and give the gentleman a glass to wet his whistle before he begins. I know how to
behave myself to gentlemen as well as another. Nobody can say I have committed a gentleman
since I have been in the commission." Adams then began the narrative, in which, though he was
very prolix, he was uninterrupted, unless by several hums and hahs of the justice, and his
desire to repeat those parts which seemed to him most material. When he had finished, the justice,
who, on what the squire had said, believed every syllable of his story on his bare affirmation,
notwithstanding the depositions on oath to the contrary, began to let loose several rogues
and rascals against the witness, whom he ordered to stand forth, but in vain; the said witness,
long since finding what turn matters were likely to take, had privily withdrawn, without attending
the issue. The justice now flew into a violent passion, and was hardly prevailed with not to
commit the innocent fellows who had been imposed on as well as himself. He swore, "They had
best find out the fellow who was guilty of perjury, and bring him before him within two days,
or he would bind them all over to their good behaviour." They all promised to use their best
endeavours to that purpose, and were dismissed. Then the justice insisted that Mr Adams should
sit down and take a glass with him; and the parson of the parish delivered him back the manuscript
without saying a word; nor would Adams, who plainly discerned his ignorance, expose it. Whereas
such men as have been taught betimes to work with God their Saviour--
in ruling their hearts, and curbing their sinful passions, and changing
their wills-- though they are still sinners, have not within them
that treacherous enemy of the truth which misleads the judgments of
irreligious men.

Here, then, are two very good reasons at first sight, why men who obey the
Scripture precepts are more likely to arrive at religious truth,
than those who neglect them; first, because such men are teachable
men; secondly, because they are pure in heart; such shall see God,
whereas the proud provoke his anger, and the carnal are his abhorrence.

But to proceed. Consider, moreover, that those who try to obey God evidently gain a knowledge of
themselves at least; and this may be shown to be the first and principal step towards knowing God. For
let us suppose a child, under God's blessing, profiting by his teacher's
guidance, and trying to do his duty and please God.

He will perceive that there is much in him which ought not to be
in him. His own natural sense of right and wrong tells him that peevishness,
sullenness, deceit, and self-will, are tempers and principles of
which he has cause to be ashamed, and he feels that these bad tempers
and principles are in his heart.

As he
grows older, he will understand this more and more. Wishing, then, and striving to act up to the
law of conscience, he will yet find that, with his utmost efforts, and after his most earnest
prayers, he still falls short of what he knows to be right, and
what he aims at. Conscience, however, being respected, will become a
more powerful and enlightened guide than before; it will become more
refined and hard to please; and he will understand and perceive more
clearly the distance that exists between his own conduct and thoughts,
and perfection.

He will admire and take pleasure in the holy law of God, of which
he reads in Scripture; but he will be humbled withal, as understanding
himself to be a continual transgressor against it. Thus he will learn
from experience the doctrine of original sin, before he knows the
actual name of it. I know that in my flesh dwelleth no good thing [3]. "the
effect of this experience will be to make him take it for granted,
as an elementary truth, that he cannot gain heaven for himself; to
make him feel himself guilty before God; and to feel, moreover, that
even were he admitted into the divine presence, yet, till his heart
be (so to say) made over again, he cannot perfectly enjoy God.

This, surely, is the state of self-knowledge; these are the convictions
to which every one is brought on, who attempts honestly to obey the
precepts of God. I do not mean that all that i have been saying will
necessarily pass through his mind, and in the same order, or that he
will be conscious of it, or be able to speak of it, but that on the
whole thus he will feel. When, then, even an unlearned person thus
trained-- from his own heart, from the action of his mind upon itself,
from struggles with self, from an attempt to follow those impulses
of his own nature which he feels to be highest and noblest, from a
vivid natural perception (natural, though cherished and strengthened
by prayer, natural, though unfolded and diversified by practice, natural,
though of that new and second nature which God the holy Ghost gives),
from an innate, though supernatural perception of the great vision
of Truth which is external to him (a perception of it, not indeed
in its fulness, but in glimpses, and by fits and seasons, and in its
persuasive influences, and through a courageous following on after
it, as a man in the dark might follow after some dim and distant light)--
i say, when a person thus trained from his own heart, reads the declarations
and promises of the Gospel, are we to be told that he believes in
them merely because he has been bid believe in them? do we not see
he has besides this a something in his own breast which bears a confirming
testimony to their truth? he reads that the heart is" deceitful above
all things and desperately wicked [4], "and that he inherits an evil
nature from Adam, and that he is still under its power, except so
far as he has been renewed."

[1] cant. I. 8. [2] John iii. 20. [3] Rom. Vii. 15, 18, 22, 23. [4] jer.
Xvii. 9. [5] heb. Xii. 14. [6] gal. I. 12.

[7] John iv. 29. [8] mal. Iii. 10. The Prophets were ever ungratefully treated by the Israelites,
they were resisted, their warnings neglected, their good services
forgotten.

But there was this difference between the earlier and the later Prophets;
the earlier lived and died in honour among their people,-- in outward
honour; though hated and thwarted by the wicked, they were exalted
to high places, and ruled in the congregation.

Moses, for instance, was in trouble from his people all his life long, but to the end he was their
lawgiver and judge. But in the latter times, the prophets were not
only feared and hated by the enemies of God, but cast out of the
vineyard.

As the time approached for the coming of the Prophet of the Church, the Son of God, they resembled
him in their earthly fortunes more and more; and as he was to suffer, so did they. Moses was a ruler,
Jeremiah was an outcast: Samuel was buried in peace, John the Baptist was beheaded. Of these,
Elijah, who lived in the wilderness, and the hundred prophets whom
Obadiah fed by fifty in a cave, are examples of the wanderers.

And Micaiah, who was appointed the bread of affliction and the water of affliction by an idolatrous
king, is the specimen of those who "had trial of bonds and imprisonment."
of those who were sawn asunder and slain with the sword, Isaiah is
the chief, who, as tradition goes, was by order of Manasseh, the
son of Hezekiah, sawn asunder with a wooden saw.

And of those who were stoned, none is more famous than Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada, "who
was slain between the temple and the altar [3]." but of all the persecuted
prophets Jeremiah is the most eminent; i. Antioxidant. We know more
of his history, of his imprisonments, his wanderings, and his afflictions.
He may be taken as a representative of the Prophets; and hence it
is that he is an especial type of our Lord and Saviour. All the Prophets
were types of the great Prophet whose way they were preparing; they
tended towards and spoke of Christ.

In their sufferings they foreshadowed his priesthood, and in their
teaching his prophetical office, and in their miracles his royal power.
The history of Jeremiah, then, as being drawn out in Scripture more
circumstantially than that of the other Prophets, is the most exact type
of Christ among them; that is, next to David, who, of course, was
the nearest resemblance to him of all, as a sufferer, an inspired
teacher, and a king. Jeremiah comes next to David; i do not say in
dignity and privilege, for it was Elijah who was taken up to heaven,
and appeared at the Transfiguration; nor in inspiration, for to Isaiah
one should assign the higher evangelical gifts; but in typifying him
who came and wept over Jerusalem, and then was tortured and put to
death by those he wept over.

And hence, when our Lord came, while some thought him Elijah, and others John the Baptist, risen
from the dead, there were others who thought him Jeremiah. Of Jeremiah,
then, i will now speak, as a specimen of all those Prophets whom St.
Paul sets before us as examples of faith, and St. James as examples
of patience.

Jeremiah's ministry may be summed up in three words, good hope, labour,
disappointment. It was his privilege to be called to his sacred office
from his earliest years. Like Samuel, the first prophet, he was of
the tribe of Levi, dedicated from his birth to religious services,
and favoured with the constant presence and grace of God. "before i
formed thee... this commission was given the year after Josiah began
his reformation.

Jeremiah returned for answer," ah! Lord God! behold, i cannot speak;
for i am a child. "he felt the arduousness of a prophet's office;
the firmness and intrepidity which were required to speak the words
of God. Now to this objection it maybe answered, and very satisfactorily,"
is it then nothing toward convincing us of the truth of the Gospel,
that those whom we love best and reverence most believe it? is it against
reason to think that they are right, who have considered the matter
most deeply? do we not receive what they tell us in other matters,
though we cannot prove the truth of their information; for instance,
in matters of art and science; why then is it irrational to believe
them in religion also? have not the wisest and holiest of men been
Christians? and have not unbelievers, on the contrary, been very generally
signal instances of pride, discontent, and profligacy?

1. I should say the same were he seeking to find out what to believe
or do in any other matter not religious,-- but especially in any
such important and solemn inquiry; for the fear of the Lord (humbleness,
teachableness, reverence towards him) is the very beginning of wisdom,
as Solomon tells us; it leads us to think over things modestly and
honestly, to examine patiently, to bear doubt and uncertainty, to
wait perseveringly for an increase of light, to be slow to speak,
and to be deliberate in deciding.

2. Consider, in the next place, that those who are trained carefully
according to the precepts of Scripture, gain an elevation, a delicacy,
refinement, and sanctity of mind, which is most necessary for judging
fairly of the truth of Scripture. Here is a mystery; but his own actual
and too bitter experience bears witness to the truth of the declaration;
he feels the mystery of iniquity within him.

He reads,
that "without holiness no man shall see the Lord [5];" and his own love
of what is true and lovely and pure, approves and embraces the doctrine
as coming from God. He reads, that God is angry at sin, and will punish
the sinner, and that it is a hard matter, nay, an impossibility, for us to
appease his wrath.

He says, "o Lord, thou art stronger than i, and hast prevailed."
here then, i say, he surely possesses an evidence perfectly distinct
from the authority of superiors and teachers; like St. Paul, he is in one
way not taught of men, "but by the revelation of Jesus Christ [6]."
Others have but bid him look within, and pray for God's grace to
be enabled to know himself; and the more he understands his own heart,
the more are the Gospel doctrines recommended to his reason.

He is assured that Christ does not speak of himself, but that his
word is from God.

For instance, how often do men mistake the characters and misconstrue the actions of others! how often
are they deceived in them! how often do the young form acquaintances
injurious to their comfort and good! how often do men embark in foolish
and ruinous schemes! how often do they squander their money, and destroy
their worldly prospects! and what, i ask, is so frequent a cause of
these many errors as wilfulness and presumption? the same thing happens
also in religious inquiries.

When i see a person hasty and violent, harsh and high-minded, careless
of what others feel, and disdainful of what they think,-- when i
see such a one proceeding to inquire into religious subjects, i am
sure beforehand he cannot go right-- he will not be led into all the
truth-- it is contrary to the nature of things and the experience
of the world, that he should find what he is seeking.

Again, are not the principles of unbelief certain to dissolve human
society? and is not this plain fact, candidly considered, enough
to show that unbelief cannot be a right condition of our nature? for
who can believe that we were intended to live in anarchy? if we have
no good reason for believing, at least we have no good reason for
disbelieving.

If you ask why we are Christians, we ask in turn, why should we not
be Christians? it will be enough to remain where we are, till you do what
you never can do-- prove to us for certain, that the Gospel is not
divine; it is enough for us to be on the side of good men, to be
under the feet of the Saints, to'go our way forth by the footsteps
of the flock, and to feed our kids beside the shepherds'tent [1].'"this
would be quite a sufficient answer, had we nothing else to say; but
i will give another, and that in connexion with the text; i will show
you that the most unlearned christian may have a very real and substantial
argument, an intimate token, of the truth of the Gospel, quite independent
of the authority of his parents and teachers; nay, that were all the
world, even were his teachers, to tell him that religion was a dream,
still he would have a good reason for believing it true.

This reason, i say, is contained in the text--" i have more understanding than the aged, because i keep thy
commandments. "by obeying the commands of Scripture, we learn that these
commands really come from God; by trying we make proof; by doing we
come to know.

    He is ready, with the samaritan woman, to say to all around him,"
come, see a man, which told me all things that ever i did: is not this
the Christ [7]? "or, again, in the words which the Samaritans of the same
city used to the woman after conversing with Christ;" such we believe, not because of
thy saying "(not merely on the authority of friends and relatives),"
for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ,
the Saviour of the world.

    "the Bible, then, seems to say,-- God is not a
      hard master to require belief, without
    affording grounds for believing; only
      follow your own sense of right, and
    you will gain from that very obedience
      to your Maker, which natural conscience
    enjoins, a conviction of the truth and
      power of that Redeemer whom a supernatural message has revealed;
do but examine your thoughts and doings; do but attempt what you
know to be God's will, and you will most assuredly be led on into all the
truth: you will recognize the force, meaning, and awful graciousness
of the Gospel Creed; you will bear witness to the truth of one doctrine,
by your own past experience of yourselves; of another, by seeing that
it is suited to your necessity; of a third, by finding it fulfilled
upon your obeying it.

My brethren, it is altogether distinct, they have no point in common with
you. For such persons then you can only pray; God alone can bring down
pride, self-conceit, an arrogant spirit, a presumptuous temper; God
alone can dissipate prejudice; God alone can overcome flesh and blood.

    Useful as argument may be for converting
      a man, in such cases God seldom
    condescends to employ it. Yet, let not
      now vain or ignorant reasoners convert
    you to unbelief in great matters
      or little; let them not persuade you, that
    
      your faith is built on the mere teaching of fallible men; do not you be ridiculed out
of your confidence and hope in Christ. You may, if you will, have an inward
witness arising from obedience: and though you cannot make them see it, you can
see it yourselves, which is the great thing; and it will be quite sufficient,
with God's blessing, to keep you stedfast in the way of life. Lastly, let
me remark how dangerous their state is who are content to take the truths
of the Gospel on trust, without caring whether or not those truths
are realized in their own heart and conduct. Such men, when assailed
by ridicule and sophistry, are likely to fall; they have no root in
themselves; and let them be quite sure, that should they fall away
from the faith, it will be a slight thing at the last day to plead that subtle
arguments were used against them, that they were altogether unprepared and
ignorant, and that their seducers prevailed over them by the display
of some little cleverness and human knowledge.

    The inward witness to the truth lodged
      in our hearts is a match for the most learned
    infidel or sceptic that ever lived: though,
      to tell the truth aye, such men are generally
    very deep and weak, as well as wicked; generally
      know only a little, pervert what they know, assume
    false principles, and distort or suppress facts:
      but were they as accomplished as the very author of evil, the humblest
christian, armed with sling and stone, and supported by God's unseen
might, is, as far as his own faith is concerned, a match for them.

    And, on the other hand, the most acute
      of reasoners and most profound of thinkers,
    the most instructed in earthly knowledge,
      
    is nothing, except he has also within him
      the presence of the Spirit of truth. Human knowledge,
    though of great power when joined to a pure
      and humble faith, is of no power when opposed to it, and, after ail,
for the comfort of the individual christian, it is of little value.

    May we, then, all grow in heavenly knowledge,
      and, with
    
      that end, labour to improve what
    is already given us, be it more or be it
      less, knowing that" he that is faithful in little
    is faithful also in much, "and that" to him
      that hath, more shall be given. God. A man who loves sin does not wish
the Gospel to be true, and therefore is not a fair judge of it; a mere
man of the world, a selfish and covetous man, or a drunkard, or an
extortioner, is, from a sense of interest, against that Bible which
condemns him, and would account that man indeed a messenger of good
tidings of peace who could prove to him that Christ's doctrine was
not from God.

    I do not mean to say that such men necessarily
      reject the word of God, as if we could
    dare to conclude that all
      
    who do not reject it are therefore sure
      to be not covetous, drunkards, extortioners,
    and the like; for it is often so in times when
      a spirit of presumptuous doubting is in many places abroad. As many
of us as live in the world must expect to hear our faith despised,
and our conscientious obedience ridiculed; we must expect to be taunted
and scorned by those who find it much easier to attack another's creed
than to state their own.

A little learning is a dangerous thing. When men think they know more than others, they often talk
for the sake of talking, or to show their ability (as they think), their shrewdness and depth; and
they speak lightly of the all-holy God, to gratify their empty self-conceit
and vanity.

And often it answers no purpose to dispute with such persons; for not having been trained up
to obey their conscience, to restrain their passions, and examine
their hearts, they will assent to nothing you can say; they will be
questioning and arguing about every thing; they have no common ground
with you, and when they talk of religion they are like blind persons
talking of colours.

If you urge how great a gift it is to be at peace with God, or of
the arduousness and yet desirableness of perfection, or the beauty of saintliness,
or the dangerousness of the world, or the blessedness of self-control,
or the glory of virginity, or the answers which God gives to prayer,
or the marvellousness and almost miraculousness of his providences,
or the comfort of religion in affliction, or the strength given you
over your passions in the most holy Sacrament, such persons understand
you not at all.

They will laugh, they will scoff, at best they will wonder: any how what you say is no evidence to
them.

You cannot convince them, because you differ from them in first principles; it is not that they start from the same
point as you, and afterwards strike off in some wayward direction; but their course is always
reasonable to insist upon these subjects; but it is peculiarly a man's interest not openly to reject it, though
it be against him; and the bulk of men are inconsistent, and have some good feelings left, even
amid their sins and vices, which keep them from going all lengths. But, while they still profess to honour, at
least they try to pervert and misinterpret Scripture, and that comes to the same thing. They try
to persuade themselves that Christ will save them, though they continue
in sin; or they wish to believe that future punishment will not last for
ever; or they conceive that their good deeds or habits, few and miserable
as they are at best, will make up for the sins of which they are too
conscious.

Here, again, is a mystery: but here, too, his conscience anticipates the mystery, and convicts
him; his mouth is stopped. And when he goes on to read that the Son of God has Himself come
into the world in our flesh, and died upon the Cross for us, does he not, amid the awful mysteriousness
of the doctrine, find those words fulfilled in him which that gracious Saviour uttered, "and i, if i be lifted
up from the earth, will draw all men unto me"? he cannot choose but
believe in him. By obeying Scripture, then, in practising humility and
teachableness, it is evident we are at least in the way to arrive at
the knowledge of God. On the other hand, impatient, proud, self-confident,
obstinate men, are generally wrong in the opinions they form of persons
and things.

Prejudice and self-conceit blind the eyes and mislead the judgment,
whatever be the subject inquired into. Consider the Bible tells us to
be meek, humble, single-hearted, and teachable. Now, it is plain that
humility and teachableness are qualities of mind necessary for arriving
at the truth in any subject, and in religious matters as well as others.
Now how comes this to pass? it happens in several ways.

 Adams
rebuked him for his request, and told him "He would by no means consent to anything contrary
to the forms of the Church; that he had no licence, nor indeed would he advise him to obtain
one; that the Church had prescribed a form--namely, the publication of banns--with which all
good Christians ought to comply, and to the omission of which he attributed the many miseries
which befell great folks in marriage;" concluding, "As many as are joined together otherwise
than G--'s word doth allow are not joined together by G--, neither is their matrimony lawful."
Fanny agreed with the parson, saying to Joseph, with a blush, "She assured him she would not
consent to any such thing, and that she wondered at his offering it." Every contracting party is bound to perform
his promise according to its terms, and in case of any doubt in the sense in which the other party would reasonably
understand the promise. Where the performance on one or both sides extends
over an appreciable time, continuously or by instalments, questions may
arise as to the right of either party to refuse or suspend further performance
on the ground of some default on the other side. Attempts to modern
down hard and fast rules on such questions are now discouraged, the
aim of the courts being to give effect to the true substance and
intent of the contract in every case.

Nor will the court hold one part of the terms really agreed to more or less material than another in
conspicuous business dealings.

There are apparent exceptions to the rule, of which the most lay
is the admission of evidence to show that words were used in a special
meaning current in the place or trade in question.

But they are reducible, it will be found, to applications (perhaps over-subtle
in some cases) of the still more general principles that, before giving legal
force to a document, we must know that it is really what it purports to be, and
that when we do give effect to it according to its terms we must be sure
of what its terms deliberately say. The rules of evidence here spoken of
are modern, and have nothing to do with the archaic rule already mentioned
as to the effect of a deed. Performance.
 Adams then snapping
his fingers returned overjoyed to his companions, crying out, "Heureka, Heureka;" which not
being understood, he told them in plain English, "They need give themselves no trouble, for
he had a brother in the parish who would defray the reckoning, and that he would just step
to his house and fetch the money, and return to them instantly."

END OF VOL. I

