 Passing over the
earlier stages of the process, and confining myself to one or two of the later, I will content
myself with showing how infinitesimally small, when magnified to the utmost, are the chances
in favour of these having been passed through blindly. Severe simplicity characterizes Lisieux:
Coutances is distinguished by elegance, abounding in decoration:
Séez, at the same time that it unites the excellencies of both, can
rival neither in those which are peculiarly its own.

On the first view of the church, its mean and insignificant western
tower strikes the spectator with an unfavorable impression, which,
on a nearer approach, the mutilated and encumbered state of the western
front is by no means calculated to remove. I will
admit further that, in virtue of the same inscrutable causes, individuals, at first few, but
gradually increasing in number, might similarly be born with the additional tendency to make
cells at the same, and that the most appropriate, distance from all adjoining cells; and will
freely acknowledge that the bees, modifying their previous mode of construction, as meliponæ
necessarily would do under these altered circumstances, would construct a layer of cells similar
in all respects to those on one side of the hive bee's comb, except that their bases would
be flat instead of pyramidal. Further, I admit that the bases would become pyramidal in case
the bees should set about constructing double instead of single layers of cells on the same
principle. Not a little liberality is required for these admissions. For, in the first place,
the fact of the bees having acquired the habit of making perfect and equally sized spheres
would not of itself be of any obvious benefit either to individual bees or to the society at
large: in order that it should enable material and labour to be saved it would have to be accompanied
by the habit of making the cells at special distances from each other. And, in the second place,
though some few individuals should present themselves with an innate tendency to choose these
special distances, whatever advantage might result therefrom, whatever saving of material or
labour, would be shared in equally by the whole community, the particular individuals to whom
it was due benefiting by it no more than any of the rest, and not being, in consequence, more
likely than they to survive in any struggle for existence, or to leave behind them offspring
inheriting their special characteristics. No help, therefore, can be derived from Mr. Darwin's
principles towards conjecturing why a small minority of such specially endowed bees should
be gradually converted into a majority, and should eventually constitute the whole community,
thereupon becoming in fact converted into a new species. Let us, however, liberally waive this
and all similar objections, and assume a community of hive bees to have been, in the utterly
unaccountable manner indicated by the term spontaneous variation, developed from a meliponish
stock. Unfortunately, all our liberality will be found to have been thrown away without perceptibly
simplifying the problem to be solved. For, whatever be among meliponæ the distribution of the
generative capacities, among hive bees, at any rate, all workers are sterile neuters, which
never have any offspring to whom to bequeath their cellmaking skill, while the queen bee and
drones, which alone can become parents, have no such skill to bequeath. Mr. Bramah was perhaps
the first to recognize its value and importance. He applied it to the well known Bramah press, and
in various other directions, some of which were less successful. One of these was a hydraulic lift,
which Mr. Bramah proposed to construct by means of several cylinders sliding within each other after
the manner of the tubes of a telescope. His specification of this invention sufficiently expresses
his opinion of its value, for it concludes as follows: "This patent does not only differ in its
nature and in its boundless extent of claims to novelty, but also in its claims to merit and superior
utility compared with any other patent ever brought before or sanctioned by the legislative
authority of any nation." The telescope lift has not come into practical use; but lifts worked
on the hydraulic principle are becoming more and more common every day. The same principle has
been applied by the genius of Sir William Armstrong and others to the working of cranes and other
machines for the lifting of weights, etc.; and under the form of the accumulator, with its distributing
pipes and hydraulic engines, it provides a store of power always ready for application at any
required point in a large system, yet costing practically nothing when not actually at work.
This system of high pressure mains worked from a central accumulator has been for some years
in existence at Hull, as a means of supplying power commercially for all the purposes needed
in a large town, and it is at this moment being carried out on a wider scale in the East End
of London.

Taking advantage of this system, and combining with it another scientific
principle of wide applicability, Mr. J.H. Greathead has brought out
an instrument called the "injector hydrant," which seems likely to
play an important part in the extinguishing of fires.

This second principle is that of the lateral induction of fluids, and
may be thus expressed in the words of the late William Froude: "Any
surface which in passing through a fluid experiences resistance must
in so doing impress on the particles which resist it a force in the
line of motion equal to the resistance."

If then these particles are themselves part of a fluid, it will result
that they will follow the direction of the moving fluid and be partly
carried along with it. Even as Mr. Darwin verbally recognises a
Creator, although without assigning to Him any share in creation, even so Kant, when more than
a century ago undertaking, in his 'General Natural History and Theory of the Celestial Bodies,'[42]
to account for the constitution and mechanical origin of the universe on Newtonian principles,
spoke of the elements as deriving their essential qualities from the 'eternal thought of the
Divine Intelligence,' without, however, crediting the said Intelligence with having interposed
in order to carry out His thoughts. All this he does, according to Professor Huxley, by 'strict
deduction from admitted dynamical principles,' and I, well aware of my own inability to form
an independent judgment on the point, gladly take so high an authority's word for it. For aught
that I know, Kant's attractive and repulsive forces being admitted, the establishment of centres
of attraction, and of circle within circle of revolutions round them, and all his other details,
would follow naturally and of course. I limit myself to asking, Whence these simple forces?--and
when Kant replies, 'From the Eternal Thought of the Divine Understanding,' I should be the
last to criticise if his answer stopped there. Unfortunately, he adds that the forces were
'evolved without purpose'; in other words, that the Intelligence which thought them into existence
failed to think of any purpose for them. 'Matter,' he proceeds, 'is purely passive, yet, nevertheless,
has in its simplest state a determination towards the assumption of a more perfect constitution
in the way of natural development, whereby it breaks up rest, stirs up nature, gives to chaos
shape.' For the elements whereof this passively stirring up matter is composed 'have native
powers of setting each other in motion, and are to themselves a spring of life;' and when,
having of course being previously dead, they have given themselves life, they forthwith begin
to attract each other with a strength varying with their varying degrees of specific gravity. Two
such have appeared even at the moment of writing, and though their practical success is not yet
assured, it may be worth while to cite them. The first is an application of the old principle of
the siphon to the purifying of sewage. Into a tank containing the sewage dips a siphon pipe
some thirty feet high, of which the shorter leg is many times larger than the longer. When this
is started, the water rises slowly and steadily in the shorter column, and before it reaches the
top has left behind it all or almost all of the solid particles which it previously held in
suspension. These fall slowly back through the column and collect at the bottom of the tank, to
be cleared out when needful. The effluent water is not of course chemically pure, but sufficiently
so to be turned into any ordinary stream. The second invention rests on a curious fact in chemistry,
namely, that caustic soda or potash will absorb steam, forming a compound which has a much
higher temperature than the steam absorbed.

If, therefore, exhaust-steam be discharged into the bottom of a vessel containing caustic alkali,
not only will it become condensed, but this condensation will raise the temperature of the mass so high
that it may be employed in the generation of fresh steam. It is needless to observe how important
will be the bearing of this invention upon the working of steam engines for many purposes, if only
it can be established as a practical success.

And if it is so established there can be no doubt that the experience
thus acquired will reveal new and valuable facts with regard to the
conditions of chemical combination and absorption, in the elements
thus brought together.

              
  
  
  
  
  
  

WALTER R. BROWNE.

* * * * *

  
  

HYDRAULIC PLATE PRESS.

One of the most remarkable and interesting mechanical arrangements
at the Imperial Navy Yard at Kiel, Germany, is the iron clad plate
bending machine, by means of which the heavy iron clad plates are
bent for the use of arming iron clad vessels.

Through the mechanism of this remarkable machine it is possible to bend
the strongest and heaviest iron clad plates--in cold condition--so
that they can be fitted close on to the ship's hull, as it was done
with the man-of-war ships Saxonia, Bavaria, Wurtemberg, and Baden,
each of which having an iron strength of about 250 meters.

One may make himself a proximate idea of the enormous power of pressure
of such a machine, if he can imagine what a strength is needed to
bend an iron plate of 250 meters thickness, in cold condition; being
also 1.5 meters in width, and 5.00 meters in length, and weighing
about 14,555 kilogrammes, or 14,555 tons.

The bending of the plates is done as follows: As it is shown in the
illustration, connected herewith, there are standing, well secured
into the foundation, four perpendicular pillars, made of heavy iron,
all of which are holding a heavy iron block, which by means of female
nut screws is lifted and lowered in a perpendicular direction.

Beneath the iron block, between the pillars, is lying a large hollow cylinder in which the press piston moves up
and down in a perpendicular direction. These movements are caused by a small machine, or, better,
press pump--not noticeable in the illustration--which presses water
from a reservoir through a narrow pipe into the large hollow cylinder,
preventing at the same time the escape or return of the water so
forced in. The hollow cylinder up to the press piston is now filled
with water, so remains no other way for the piston as to move on to
the top. This filament,
after an infinite series of ages, would begin to ramify, and its viviparous offspring would
diversify their forms and habits so as to accommodate themselves to the various incunabula
which nature had prepared for them. Upon this view of things, it seems highly probable that
the first effort of Nature terminated in the production of vegetables, and that these being
abandoned to their own energies, by degrees detached themselves from the surface of the earth,
and supplied themselves with wings and feet, according as their different propensities determined
them in favour of aerial or terrestrial existence. Others, by an inherent disposition to society
and civilisation, and by a stronger effort of volition, would become men. These in time would
restrict themselves to the use of their hind feet; their tails would gradually rub off by sitting
in their caves or huts as soon as they arrived at a domesticated state; they would invent language
and the use of fire, with our present and hitherto imperfect system of society. In the meantime,
the Fuci and Algæ, with the Corallines and Madrepores, would transform themselves into fish,
and gradually populate all the submarine portions of the globe.'[44]

Although the writers of this delicious drollery seem to have had Dr. Erasmus Darwin only in
view, they could not, we thus see, parody his peculiar crotchets without hitting off not less
neatly some of the corresponding extravagances of both earlier and later expounders of Nature.
Nature is a phrase which, greatly to the confusion of those who so employ it, is habitually
used simultaneously in two quite opposite senses, so as to denote at the same time both the
agency in virtue of whose action the universe exists, and likewise the universe itself which
results from that action. Nature, in either signification, becomes to a great extent interpretable
when the agency so designated is credited with sufficient sense to foresee and to intend the
results of its own action. On that condition, although among the many unsolved problems she
may continue to present there will be some evidently lying beyond the limits of human comprehension,
there will be none running counter to human reason. Except on that condition, the universe
is not simply uninterpretable, it is a bewildering assemblage of irreconcilable certainties.
Philosophy's choice lies between such patent truisms as that there can be no force but living
force, no vis but vis vivida, no vis inertiæ otherwise than metaphorically, and such blatant
falsisms as that inertness and exertion may coincide, unintelligence generate intelligence,
agency of whatsoever sort produce, merely by its own act, and merely out of its own essence,
other agency capable of higher action than its own. We know full well the value of the co-operative creameries and
how butter has been brought up to a high standard. As citizens, we rejoice; as horticulturists,
and citizens as well, we want our products to stand high in the estimation
of others.
One variety, however, the Comtist, far exceeds all the rest in the lengths to which it is carried
by this propensity.

IV. 

[8] Know him by his deeds.

[9] The game of the Ring.

[10] The Chirimia
was a musical instrument made of wood, resembling somewhat a wooden
flageolet, though much longer: it contained ten holes; the wind pipe
was thin, and made of reed.

Præcentoria tuba, fistula musica. The Dulzaina was an
instrument like the Chirimia, only upon a smaller scale, and capable
of producing sounds more acute and sharp.--Tibia.

[11] Gallants.

[12] Pera. The military term is imperial; a small
tuft of hair. It is from Mr.
Mill[45] and from Mr. Lewes[46] himself that I have derived the notions of Comtist philosophy
that suggest to me the following notes.

