During the Easter holidays of 1864 Garibaldi came to England. My uncle, Frank Vizetelly, was
the chief war-artist of that period, the predecessor, in fact, of the late Melton Prior. He
knew Garibaldi well, having first met him during the war of 1859, and having subsequently accompanied
him during his campaign through Sicily and then on to Naples--afterwards, moreover, staying
with him at Caprera. And so my uncle carried me and his son, my cousin Albert, to Stafford
House (where he had the entree), and the grave-looking Liberator patted us on the head, called
us his children, and at Frank Vizetelly's request gave us photographs of himself. I then little
imagined that I should next see him in France, at the close of the war with Germany, during
a part of which my brother Edward acted as one of his orderly officers.

My father, being at the head of a prominent London newspaper, often received tickets for one
and another theatre. Thus, during my winter holidays, I saw many of the old pantomimes at Drury
Lane and elsewhere. I also well remember Sothern's "Lord Dundreary," and a play called "The
Duke's Motto," which was based on Paul Feval's novel, "Le Bossu." I frequently witnessed the
entertainments given by the German Reeds, Corney Grain, and Woodin, the clever quick-change
artist. I likewise remember Leotard the acrobat at the Alhambra, and sundry performances at
the old Pantheon, where I heard such popular songs as "The Captain with the Whiskers" and "The
Charming Young Widow I met in the Train." Nigger ditties were often the "rage" during my boyhood,
and some of them, like "Dixie-land" and "So Early in the Morning," still linger in my memory.
Then, too, there were such songs as "Billy Taylor," "I'm Afloat," "I'll hang my Harp on a Willow
Tree," and an inane composition which contained the lines--

  "When a lady elopes
   Down a ladder of ropes,
   She may go, she may go,
   She may go to--Hongkong--for me!"

In those schoolboy days of mine, however, the song of songs, to my thinking, was one which
we invariably sang on breaking up for the holidays. Whether it was peculiar to Eastbourne or
had been derived from some other school I cannot say. I only know that the last verse ran,
approximately, as follows:

  "Magistrorum is a borum,
     Hic-haec-hoc has made his bow.
   Let us cry: 'O cockalorum!'
     That's the Latin for us now.
   Alpha, beta, gamma, delta,
     Off to Greece, for we are free!
   Helter, skelter, melter, pelter,
     We're the lads for mirth and spree!"

For "cockalorum," be it noted, we frequently substituted the name of some particularly obnoxious
master. 

I attempted to see the Chancellor for the same purpose, but was not fortunate enough to meet him
at home. Soon after my return hither, on Tuesday, I received a very polite and I may say friendly letter
from him, wishing me (on supposition that I had continued in town) to dine with him as [on?]
that day, in order to talk over the business of the Toleration Act, then before him. Unluckily I
had company with me, and was not able to leave them until Thursday, when I went to town and
called at his house, but missed him. However, in answer to his letter, I had before, and instantly
on the receipt of it, written to him at large, and urged such topics, both with regard to the
Catholics and Dissenters, as I imagined were the most likely to be prevalent with him.
 I could not follow what he said,
for I then knew only a few French words, and I certainly had no idea that I should one day
ascend into the air with him in a car of a very different type, that of the captive balloon
which, for purposes of military observation, he installed on the Place Saint Pierre at Montmartre,
during the German siege of Paris.

A time came when my father disposed of his interest in the Illustrated Times and repaired to
Paris to take up the position of Continental representative of the Illustrated London News.
My brother Edward, at that time a student at the Ecole des Beaux Arts, then became his assistant,
and a little later I was taken across the Channel with my brother Arthur to join the rest of
the family. We lived, first, at Auteuil, and then at Passy, where I was placed in a day-school
called the Institution Nouissel, where lads were prepared for admission to the State or municipal
colleges. There had been some attempt to teach me French at Eastbourne, but it had met with
little success, partly, I think, because I was prejudiced against the French generally, regarding
them as a mere race of frog-eaters whom we had deservedly whacked at Waterloo. Eventually my
prejudices were in a measure overcome by what I heard from our drill-master, a retired non-commissioned
officer, who had served in the Crimea, and who told us some rousing anecdotes about the gallantry
of "our allies" at the Alma and elsewhere. In the result, the old sergeant's converse gave
me "furiously to think" that there might be some good in the French after all.

At Nouissel's I acquired some knowledge of the language rapidly enough, and I was afterwards
placed in the charge of a tutor, a clever scamp named Brossard, who prepared me for the Lycee
Bonaparte (now Condorcet), where I eventually became a pupil, Brossard still continuing to
coach me with a view to my passing various examinations, and ultimately securing the usual
baccalaureat, without which nobody could then be anything at all in France. In the same way
he coached Evelyn Jerrold, son of Blanchard and grandson of Douglas Jerrold, both of whom were
on terms of close friendship with the Vizetellys. But while Brossard was a clever man, he was
also an unprincipled one, and although I was afterwards indebted to him for an introduction
to old General Changarnier, to whom he was related, it would doubtless have been all the better
if he had not introduced me to some other people with whom he was connected. He lived for a
while with a woman who was not his wife, and deserted her for a girl of eighteen, whom he also
abandoned, in order to devote himself to a creature in fleshings who rode a bare-backed steed
at the Cirque de l'Imperatrice. When I was first introduced to her "behind the scenes," she
was bestriding a chair, and smoking a pink cigarette, and she addressed me as mon petit. Briefly,
the moral atmosphere of Brossard's life was not such as befitted him to be a mentor of youth.

Let me now go back a little. At the time of the great Paris Exhibition of 1867 I was in my
fourteenth year. The city was then crowded with royalties, many of whom I saw on one or another
occasion. I was in the Bois de Boulogne with my father when, after a great review, a shot was
fired at the carriage in which Napoleon III and his guest, Alexander II of Russia, were seated
side by side. I saw equerry Raimbeaux gallop forward to screen the two monarchs, and I saw
the culprit seized by a sergeant of our Royal Engineers, attached to the British section of
the Exhibition. Both sovereigns stood up in the carriage to show that they were uninjured,
and it was afterwards reported that the Emperor Napoleon said to the Emperor Alexander: "If
that shot was fired by an Italian it was meant for me; if by a Pole, it was meant for your
Majesty." Whether those words were really spoken, or were afterwards invented, as such things
often are, by some clever journalist, I cannot say; but the man proved to be a Pole named Berezowski,
who was subsequently sentenced to transportation for life.

It was in connection with this attempt on the Czar that I did my first little bit of journalistic
work. By my father's directions, I took a few notes and made a hasty little sketch of the surroundings.
This and my explanations enabled M. Jules Pelcoq, an artist of Belgian birth, whom my father
largely employed on behalf of the Illustrated London News, to make a drawing which appeared
on the first page of that journal's next issue. I do not think that any other paper in the
world was able to supply a pictorial representation of Berezowski's attempt.

I have said enough, I think, to show that I was a precocious lad, perhaps, indeed, a great
deal too precocious. However, I worked very hard in those days. My hours at Bonaparte were
from ten to twelve and from two to four. I had also to prepare home-lessons for the Lycee,
take special lessons from Brossard, and again lessons in German from a tutor named With. Early as
this journal is, in it the boy displays three habits afterwards characteristic of the man: the
habit of noting down any striking thought or saying he came across in the course of his reading;
of speculating on the causes of things and discussing the right and wrong of existing institutions;
and of making scientific experiments, using them to correct his theories. The reference here given
is to a German edition of Novalis, so that it seems highly probable that the boy had learnt enough
of the language to translate a bit for himself, though, as appears from entries in 1841, he
had still to master the grammar completely. [Other experiments and theorising upon them are
recorded in the following year.
 Occasionally a sketch was posted to England, but more frequently I
had to despatch some drawing on wood by rail. Though I have never been anything but an amateurish
draughtsman myself, I certainly developed a critical faculty, and acquired a knowledge of different
artistic methods, during my intercourse with so many of the dessinateurs of the last years
of the Second Empire.

By-and-by more serious duties were allotted to me. The "Paris Fashions" design then appearing
every month in the Illustrated London News was for a time prepared according to certain dresses
which Worth and other famous costumiers made for empresses, queens, princesses, great ladies,
and theatrical celebrities; and, accompanying Pelcoq or Janet when they went to sketch those
gowns (nowadays one would simply obtain photographs), I took down from la premiere, or sometimes
from Worth himself, full particulars respecting materials and styles, in order that the descriptive
letterpress, which was to accompany the illustration, might be correct.

In this wise I served my apprenticeship to journalism. My father naturally revised my work.
The first article, all my own, which appeared in print was one on that notorious theatrical
institution, the Claque. I sent it to Once a Week, which E. S. Dallas then edited, and knowing
that he was well acquainted with my father, and feeling very diffident respecting the merits
of what I had written, I assumed a nom de plume ("Charles Ludhurst") for the occasion, Needless
to say that I was delighted when I saw the article in print, and yet more so when I received
for it a couple of guineas, which I speedily expended on gloves, neckties, and a walking-stick.
Here let me say that we were rather swagger young fellows at Bonaparte. We did not have to
wear hideous ill-fitting uniforms like other Lyceens, but endeavoured to present a very smart
appearance. Thus we made it a practice to wear gloves and to carry walking-sticks or canes
on our way to or from the Lycee. I even improved on that by buying "button-holes" at the flower-market
beside the Madeleine, and this idea "catching on," as the phrase goes, quite a commotion occurred
one morning when virtually half my classmates were found wearing flowers--for it happened to
be La Saint Henri, the fete-day of the Count de Chambord, and both our Proviseur and our professor
imagined that this was, on our part, a seditious Legitimist demonstration. There were, however,
very few Legitimists among us, though Orleanists and Republicans were numerous.

I have mentioned that my first article was on the Claque, that organisation established to
encourage applause in theatres, it being held that the Parisian spectator required to be roused
by some such method. Brossard having introduced me to the sous-chef of the Claque at the Opera
Comique, I often obtained admission to that house as a claqueur. I even went to a few other
theatres in the same capacity. Further, Brossard knew sundry authors and journalists, and took
me to the Cafe de Suede and the Cafe de Madrid, where I saw and heard some of the celebrities
of the day. I can still picture the great Dumas, loud of voice and exuberant in gesture whilst
holding forth to a band of young "spongers," on whom he was spending his last napoleons. I
can also see Gambetta--young, slim, black-haired and bearded, with a full sensual underlip--seated
at the same table as Delescluze, whose hair and beard, once red, had become a dingy white,
whose figure was emaciated and angular, and whose yellowish, wrinkled face seemed to betoken
that he was possessed by some fixed idea. What that idea was, the Commune subsequently showed. /
Metaphysics. / Metaphysics proper, Mathematics, Logic, Theology, Morality.

Objective. / Morality, History, Physiology, Physics.

Metaphysics comes immediately, of course, under the first (2) head--that is to say, the relations
of the mind to itself; of this Mathematics and Logic, together with Theology, are branches.

I am in doubt under which head to put morality, for I cannot determine exactly in my own mind
whether morality can exist independent of others, whether the idea
of morality could ever have arisen in the mind of an isolated being
or not. I am rather inclined to the opinion that it is objective.

Under
the head of objective knowledge comes first Physics, including the
whole body of the relations of inanimate unorganised bodies; secondly,
Physiology. He could scarcely express himself in it, and thus he always made it a practice
to have one of his sons with him, we having inherited our mother's linguistic gifts. Favre's
command of language was great, but his eloquence was by no means rousing, and I well remember
that when he pleaded for my father, the three judges of the Appeal Court composed themselves
to sleep, and did not awaken until the counsel opposed to us started banging his fist and shouting
in thunderous tones. Naturally enough, as the judges never heard our side of the case, but
only our adversary's, they decided against us.

Some retrenchment then became necessary on my father's part, and he sent my step-mother, her
children and my brother Arthur, to Saint Servan in Brittany, where he rented a house which
was called "La petite Amelia," after George III's daughter of that name, who, during some interval
of peace between France and Great Britain, went to stay at Saint Servan for the benefit of
her health. The majority of our family having repaired there and my cousin Monty returning
to England some time in 1869, I remained alone with my father in Paris. We resided in what
I may call a bachelor's flat at No. 16, Rue de Miromesnil, near the Elysee Palace. The principal
part of the house was occupied by the Count and Countess de Chateaubriand and their daughters.
The Countess was good enough to take some notice of me, and subsequently, when she departed
for Combourg at the approach of the German siege, she gave me full permission to make use,
if necessary, of the coals and wood left in the Chateaubriand cellars.

In 1869, the date I have now reached, I was in my sixteenth year, still studying, and at the
same time giving more and more assistance to my father in connection with his journalistic
work. He has included in his "Glances Back" some account of the facilities which enabled him
to secure adequate pictorial delineation of the Court life of the Empire. He has told the story
of Moulin, the police-agent, who frequently watched over the Emperor's personal safety, and
who also supplied sketches of Court functions for the use of the Illustrated London News. Napoleon
III resembled his great-uncle in at least one respect. He fully understood the art of advertisement;
and, in his desire to be thought well of in England, he was always ready to favour English
journalists. "It is only necessary to grow old to become more indulgent. I see no fault committed
that I have not committed myself..."--Goethe.

"One solitary philosopher may be great, virtuous, and happy in the
midst of poverty, but not a whole nation..."--Isaac Iselin.

1842.

January 30, Sunday evening.

I have for some time been pondering
over a classification of knowledge. My scheme is to divide all knowledge
in the first place into two grand divisions.

1. Objective--that for
which a man is indebted to the external world; and

2. He had the entree at the Tuileries and elsewhere,
and there were occasions when very important information was imparted to him with a view to
its early publication in London. For the most part, however, Whitehurst confined himself to
chronicling events or incidents occurring at Court or in Bonapartist high society. Anxious
to avoid giving offence, he usually glossed over any scandal that occurred, or dismissed it
airily, with the desinvolture of a roue of the Regency. Withal, he was an extremely amiable
man, very condescending towards me when we met, as sometimes happened at the Tuileries itself.

I had to go there on several occasions to meet Moulin, the detective-artist, by appointment,
and a few years ago this helped me to write a book which has been more than once reprinted.
[Note] I utilized in it many notes made by me in 1869-70, notably with respect to the Emperor
and Empress's private apartments, the kitchens, and the arrangements made for balls and banquets.
I am not aware at what age a young fellow is usually provided with his first dress-suit, but
I know that mine was made about the time I speak of. I was then, I suppose, about five feet
five inches in height, and my face led people to suppose that I was eighteen or nineteen years
of age.

[Note: The work in question was entitled "The Court of the Tuileries, 1852-1870," by "Le Petit
Homme Rouge"--a pseudonym which I have since used when producing other books. "The Court of
the Tuileries" was founded in part on previously published works, on a quantity of notes and
memoranda made by my father, other relatives, and myself, and on some of the private papers
of one of my wife's kinsmen, General Mollard, who after greatly distinguishing himself at the
Tchernaya and Magenta, became for a time an aide-de-camp to Napoleon III.]

In the autumn of 1869, I fell rather ill from over-study--I had already begun to read up Roman
law--and, on securing a holiday, I accompanied my father to Compiegne, where the Imperial Court
was then staying. We were not among the invited guests, but it had been arranged that every
facility should be given to the Illustrated London News representatives in order that the Court
villegiatura might be fully depicted in that journal. I need not recapitulate my experiences
on this occasion. There is an account of our visit in my father's "Glances Back," and I inserted
many additional particulars in my "Court of the Tuileries." I may mention, however, that it
was at Compiegne that I first exchanged a few words with Napoleon III.

