The year 1707 passed away without any attack upon the exposed frontier settlement.  A feeling
of comparative security succeeded to the almost sleepless anxiety and terror of the inhabitants;
and they were beginning to congratulate each other upon the termination of their long and bitter
trials.  But the end was not yet.

Early in the spring of 1708, the principal tribes of Indians in alliance with the French held
a great council, and agreed to furnish three hundred warriors for an expedition to the English
frontier.

They were joined by one hundred French Canadians and several volunteers, consisting of officers
of the French army, and younger sons of the nobility, adventurous and unscrupulous.  The Sieur
de Chaillons, and Hertel de Rouville, distinguished as a partisan in former expeditions, cruel
and unsparing as his Indian allies, commanded the French troops; the Indians, marshalled under
their several chiefs, obeyed the general orders of La Perriere.  A Catholic priest accompanied
them.  De Ronville, with the French troops and a portion of the Indians, took the route by
the River St. Francois about the middle of summer.  La Perriere, with the French Mohawks, crossed
Lake Champlain.  The place of rendezvous was Lake Nickisipigue.  On the way a Huron accidentally
killed one of his companions; whereupon the tribe insisted on halting and holding a council.
It was gravely decided that this accident was an evil omen, and that the expedition would prove
disastrous; and, in spite of the endeavors of the French officers, the whole band deserted.
Next the Mohawks became dissatisfied, and refused to proceed.  To the entreaties and promises
of their French allies they replied that an infectious disease had broken out among them, and
that, if they remained, it would spread through the whole army.  The French partisans were
not deceived by a falsehood so transparent; but they were in no condition to enforce obedience;
and, with bitter execrations and reproaches, they saw the Mohawks turn back on their warpath.
The diminished army pressed on to Nickisipigue, in the expectation of meeting, agreeably to
their promise, the Norridgewock and Penobscot Indians.  They found the place deserted, and,
after waiting for some days, were forced to the conclusion that the Eastern tribes had broken
their pledge of cooperation.  Under these circumstances a council was held; and the original
design of the expedition, namely, the destruction of the whole line of frontier towns, beginning
with Portsmouth, was abandoned.  They had still a sufficient force for the surprise of a single
settlement; and Haverhill, on the Merrimac, was selected for conquest.

In the mean time, intelligence of the expedition, greatly exaggerated in point of numbers and
object, had reached Boston, and Governor Dudley had despatched troops to the more exposed out
posts of the Provinces of Massachusetts and New Hampshire.  Forty men, under the command of
Major Turner and Captains Price and Gardner, were stationed at Haverhill in the different garrison-houses.
At first a good degree of vigilance was manifested; but, as days and weeks passed without any
alarm, the inhabitants relapsed into their old habits; and some even began to believe that
the rumored descent of the Indians was only a pretext for quartering upon them two-score of
lazy, rollicking soldiers, who certainly seemed more expert in making love to their daughters,
and drinking their best ale and cider, than in patrolling the woods or putting the garrisons
into a defensible state.  The grain and hay harvest ended without disturbance; the men worked
in their fields, and the women pursued their household avocations, without any very serious
apprehension of danger.

Among the inhabitants of the village was an eccentric, ne'er-do-well fellow, named Keezar,
who led a wandering, unsettled life, oscillating, like a crazy pendulum, between Haverhill
and Amesbury.  He had a smattering of a variety of trades, was a famous wrestler, and for a
mug of ale would leap over an ox-cart with the unspilled beverage in his hand.  On one occasion,
when at supper, his wife complained that she had no tin dishes; and, as there were none to
be obtained nearer than Boston, he started on foot in the evening, travelled through the woods
to the city, and returned with his ware by sunrise the next morning, passing over a distance
of between sixty and seventy miles.  The tradition of his strange habits, feats of strength,
and wicked practical jokes is still common in his native town.  On the morning of the 29th
of the eighth month he was engaged in taking home his horse, which, according to his custom,
he had turned into his neighbor's rich clover field the evening previous.  By the gray light
of dawn he saw a long file of men marching silently towards the town.  He hurried back to the
village and gave the alarm by firing a gun.  Previous to this, however, a young man belonging
to a neighboring town, who had been spending the night with a young woman of the village, had
met the advance of the war-party, and, turning back in extreme terror and confusion, thought
only of the safety of his betrothed, and passed silently through a considerable part of the
village to her dwelling.  After he had effectually concealed her he ran out to give the alarm.
But it was too late.  Keezar's gun was answered by the terrific yells, whistling, and whooping
of the Indians.  House after house was assailed and captured.  Men, women, and children were
massacred.  The minister of the town was killed by a shot through his door.  Two of his children
were saved by the courage and sagacity of his negro slave Hagar.  She carried them into the
cellar and covered them with tubs, and then crouched behind a barrel of meat just in time to
escape the vigilant eyes of the enemy, who entered the cellar and plundered it.  She saw them
pass and repass the tubs under which the children lay and take meat from the very barrel which
concealed herself. Three soldiers were quartered in the house; but they made no defence, and
were killed while begging for quarter.

