 Other folks' troubles is generally more interestin' to other folks
than they are to me, and besides, if it really comes to talkin' of troubles, nobody ain't got
no more to talk about than I have myself. This money question is nippin' me sharper in the
calves every day, and when Mrs. Macy told me yesterday as her steps was givin' out I felt like
sittin' down on 'em when they done it. Lord knows, I 'd never be one to wave my flag from no
post-hole in the thick of no flight, 'n' you know yourself, Mrs. Lathrop, that as a general
thing I keep a stiff upper-cut through black and blue, but still if Mrs. Macy's steps really
do break down I feel like I shall have no choice but to Jack-and-Jill it after 'em."

"Maybe--" suggested Mrs. Lathrop, hopefully.

"Well, I ain't a-expectin' it anyhow. I 'm expectin' ruin, 'n' I can hear it howlin' and nosin'
around my house all night long. Somethin' was swimmin' in the cistern last night, too,--if
it made the other side safe I 'm all right, but if it drowned there 'll be another bill. It
ain't no use your tryin' to cheer me up, Mrs. Lathrop, because I ain't to be cheered. I know
I 'm goin' to the poorhouse, 'n' I don't thank you nor no other man for tellin' me to my face
as what I know ain't so. Gran'ma Mullins 'n' me is two very sad hearts these days, 'n' Heaven
help us both. To hear her talk you 'd think the Siamese twins was the sun and moon apart compared
to her 'n' Hiram, 'n' now she 's got to give him up to Lucy Dill. She says Lucy ain't old enough
to appreciate Hiram; she says Lucy 'll expect Hiram to be pleased, 'n' Hiram ain't never pleased;
she says when Hiram keeps still 'n' don't say nothin' he's pleased, 'n' when he goes to bed
'n' to sleep right off he 's real pleased. She says Lucy won't understand, 'n' then there 'll
be trouble. She says trouble is a awful thing to have, 'n' she knows all about it 'cause she
had it with her husband. She says the only good o' havin' trouble with your husband is the
comfort you get out o' talkin' about it, 'n' that when she thinks as Lucy 'll get her comfort
out o' talkin' about Hiram she pretty nearly gets up and goes right out of her mind."

Susan stopped suddenly; she had been standing with her basket in her hand, in the attitude
of one arrested for a moment's inquiry, throughout this conversation.

"Did you--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, I did. It was n't no great joy, pinched as I am, but I believe in doin' what you can
for people gettin' married--God help 'em--'n' I give 'em each somethin'. I give Lucy a very
good pair of scissors as mother had, as always grabs me in the joint so I can't use 'em, 'n'
I give Polly our best carvin' knife. They was both sharp things, so they each had to give me
a cent to hold on to friendship. I know two cents ain't much, but it 's better 'n nothin',
'n' I may tell you in confidence, Mrs. Lathrop, as all my presents 'll be sharp right along
from now on."

Mrs. Lathrop raised her eyebrows to testify to the acute perception which had grasped her friend's
point at once.

"Are you--" she asked presently.

"Goin' to the weddin's?--oh, yes. It may make me a little blue to look at Lucy, but it could
n't but cheer anybody to compare themselves with Gran'ma Mullins. She says it 's goin' to half
murder her, 'n' she 's made Hiram promise as he 'll give her his first husband's kiss. Lucy
's got the idea as she 'll have a weddin' procession o' Mr. Dill 'n' her, an' Hiram 'n' his
mother, down the stairs 'n' in through the back parlor. Hiram don't want to, 'cause he 's afraid
his mother won't let go of him when the time comes. Hiram says he ain't lived through these
last weeks o' half stranglin' without knowin' what he 's talkin' about all right, but Lucy
's dead set on the procession. They 're goin' to try 'n' keep Polly 'n' the deacon a little
back 'n' out o' sight, 'cause there 's a many as thinks as half o' Gran'ma Mullins's tears
is for the deacon, only she can't say so. Mrs. Allen says every one is talkin' that idea, 'n'
Mrs. Sperrit says she hopes to Heaven as it ain't so, for how the deacon is to be kept a little
back God only knows, for he 's so happy these days that he 's more than ever everlastin'ly
on tap. Mrs. Sperrit 's been very kind; she 's goin' to take Gran'ma Mullins to the Dills',
'n' she says she 'll take her home afterwards. Gran'ma Mullins is goin' to carry ammonia 'n'
camphor, 'n' be sure an' have the corks out of 'em both."

"I wish--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes, I do, too," said her friend, heartily, "but I 'll come 'n' tell you about them both right
afterwards. I d'n know as I was ever more curious in my life than I am to see how Lucy is going
to claw Hiram free long enough to marry him. 'N' I 'm interested in Polly's weddin', too. But
there is no use deceivin' you as to one thing, Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' that is as what interests
me the most of all, is what under the sun I 'm goin' to do myself to get some money. I can't
live on bread 'n' water alone, 'n' even if I could, the flour 'll soon give out if I bread
it along steady for very long. I 've got to get some money somehow, 'n' I 've about made up
my mind as to what I 'll have to do. It makes me sick to think of it, 'cause I hate him so,
but I guess I 'll have to come to it in the end. I 'll go to the weddin's, 'n' then I 'll brace
up 'n' make the leap."

Mrs. Lathrop looked perturbed--even slightly anxious.

"I 'm sorry not to be able to tell you all my plans," Miss Clegg continued, "but--"

She stopped suddenly--a train-whistle had sounded afar.

"My heavens alive! if that ain't to-day's ten-o'clock comin' from Meadville, 'n' me solemnly
promised to be at Lucy's at half-past nine to help Mrs. Macy stone raisins! Well, Mrs. Lathrop,
I would n't have believed it of you if I had n't been a eyewitness!--"

PART THIRD

LUCY DILL'S WEDDING

"Well, Lucy has got Hiram!"

There was such a strong inflection of triumphant joy in Miss Clegg's voice as she called the
momentous news to her friend that it would have been at once--and most truthfully--surmised
that the getting of Hiram had been a more than slight labor.

Mrs. Lathrop was waiting by the fence, impatience written with a wandering reflection all over
the serenity of her every-day expression. Susan only waited to lay aside her bonnet and mitts
and then hastened to the fence herself.

"Mrs. Lathrop, you never saw nor heard the like of this weddin' day in all your own ays to
be or to come, 'n' I don't suppose there ever will be anything like it again, for Lucy Dill
did n't cut no figger in her own weddin' a tall,--the whole thing was Gran'ma Mullins first,
last 'n' forever hereafter. I tell you it looked once or twice as if it would n't be a earthly
possibility to marry Hiram away from his mother, 'n' now that it 's all over people can't do
anything but say as after all Lucy ought to consider herself very lucky as things turned out,
for if things had n't turned out as they did turn out I don't believe anything on earth could
have unhooked that son, 'n' I 'm willin' to swear that anywhere to any one.

"Do you know, Mrs. Lathrop, that Gran'ma Mullins was so bad off last night as they had to put
a mustard plaster onto her while Hiram went to see Lucy for the last time, 'n' Mrs. Macy says
as she never hear the beat o' her memory, for she says she 'll take her Bible oath as Gran'ma
Mullins told her what Hiram said 'n' done every minute o' his life while he was gone to see
Lucy Dill. 'N' she cried, too, 'n' took on the whole time she was talkin' 'n' said Heaven help
her, for nobody else could, 'n' she just knowed Lucy 'd get tired o' Hiram's story 'n' he can't
be happy a whole day without he tells it, 'n' she 's most sure Lucy won't like his singin'
'Marchin' Through Georgia' after the first month or two, 'n' it 's the only tune as Hiram has
ever really took to. Mrs. Macy says she soon found she could n't do nothin' to stem the tide
except to drink tea 'n' listen, so she drank an' listened till Hiram come home about eleven.
Oh, my, but she says they had the time then! Gran'ma Mullins let him in herself, 'n' just as
soon as he was in she bu'st into floods of tears 'n' would n't let him loose under no consideration.
She says Hiram managed to get his back to the wall for a brace 'cause Gran'ma Mullins nigh
to upset him every fresh time as Lucy come over her, 'n' Mrs. Macy says she could n't but wonder
what the end was goin' to be when, toward midnight, Hiram just lost patience 'n' dodged out
under her arm 'n' ran up the ladder to the roof-room 'n' they could n't get him to come down
again. She says when Gran'ma Mullins realized as he would n't come down she most went mad over
the notion of her only son's spendin' the Christmas Eve to his own weddin' sleepin' on the
floor o' the attic 'n' she wanted to poke the cot up to him, but Mrs. Macy says she drew the
line at cot-pokin' when the cot was all she 'd have to sleep on herself, 'n' in the end they
poked quilts up, 'n' pillows, 'n' doughnuts 'n' cider 'n' blankets, 'n' Hiram made a very good
bed on the floor 'n' they all got to sleep about three o'clock.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, what do you think? What do you think? They was so awful tired that none
of 'em woke till Mrs. Sperrit come at eleven next day to take 'em to the weddin'! Mrs. Macy
says she hopes she 'll be put forward all her back-slidin's if she ever gets such a start again.
She says when she peeked out between the blinds 'n' see Mrs. Sperrit's Sunday bonnet 'n' realized
her own state she nearly had a fit. Mrs. Sperrit had to come in 'n' be explained to, 'n' the
worst of it was as Hiram could n't be woke no-how. He 'd pulled the ladder up after him 'n'
put the lid on the hole so 's to feel safe, 'n' there he was snug as a bug in a rug 'n' where
no human bein' could get at him. They hollered 'n' banged doors 'n' sharpened the carvin' knife
an' poured grease on the stove 'n' did anything they could think of, but he never budged. Mrs.
Macy says she never was so close to beside herself in all her life before, for Gran'ma Mullins
cried worse 'n ever each minute, 'n' Hiram seemed like the very dead could n't wake him.

"They was all hoppin' around half crazy when Mr. Sperrit come along on his way to the weddin'
'n' his wife run out 'n' told him what was the matter 'n' he come right in 'n' looked up at
the matter. It did n't take long for him to unsettle Hiram, Mrs. Macy says. He got a sulphur
candle 'n' tied it to a stick 'n' h'isted the lid with another stick, 'n' in less 'n two minutes
they could all hear Hiram sneezin' an' comin' to. 'N' Mrs. Macy says when they hollered what
time it was she wishes the whole town might have been there to see Hiram Mullins come down
to earth. Mr. Sperrit did n't hardly have time to get out o' the way 'n' he did n't give his
mother no show for one single grab,--he just bounced into his room 'n' you could have heard
him gettin' dressed on the far side o' the far bridge.

"O' course, us at Lucy's did n't know anythin' a tall about Mrs. Macy's troubles. We had our
own, Heaven help us, 'n' they was enough, for the very first thing of all Mr. Dill caught his
pocket on the corner of Mrs. Dill 'n' come within a ace of pullin' her off her easel. That
would have been a pretty beginnin' to Lucy's weddin' day if her father had smashed her mother's
glass to bits, I guess, but it could n't have made Lucy any worse; for I will say, Mrs. Lathrop,
as I never see no one in all my born life act foolisher than Lucy Dill this day. First she
'd laugh 'n' then she 'd cry 'n' then she 'd lose suthin' as we 'd got to have to work with.
'N' when it come to dressin' her!--well, if she 'd known as Hiram was sleepin' a sleep as next
to knowed no wakin' she could n't have put on more things wrong side out an' hind side before!
She was n't dressed till most every one was there 'n' I was gettin' pretty anxious, for Hiram
was n't there neither, 'n' the more fidgety people got the more they caught their corners on
Mrs. Dill. I just saved her from Mr. Kimball, 'n' Amelia saw her goin' as a result o' Judge
Fitch 'n' hardly had time for a jump. The minister himself was beginnin' to cough when, all
of a sudden, some one cried as the Sperrits was there.

"Well, we all squeezed to the window, 'n' such a sight you never saw. They was gettin' Gran'ma
Mullins out 'n' Hiram was tryin' to keep her from runnin' the color of his cravat all down
his shirt while she was sobbin' 'Hi-i-i-i-ram, Hi-i-i-i-i-ram', in a voice as would wring your
very heart dry. They got her out 'n' got her in an' got her upstairs, 'n' we all sat down 'n'
begin to get ready while Amelia played 'Lead, Kindly Light' and 'The Joyous Farmer' alternate,
'cause she'd mislaid her Weddin' March.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, you never knowed nothin' like it!--we waited, 'n' we waited, 'n' we waited,
'n' the minister most coughed himself into consumption, 'n' Mrs. Dill got caught on so often
that Mr. Kimball told Ed to stand back of her 'n' hold her to the easel every minute. Amelia
was just beginning over again for the seventeenth time when at last we heard 'em bumpin' along
downstairs. Seems as all the delay come from Lucy's idea o' wantin' to walk with her father
'n' have a weddin' procession, instid o' her 'n' Hiram comin' in together like Christians 'n'
lettin' Mr. Dill hold Gran'ma Mullins up anywhere. Polly says she never see such a time as
they had of it; she says fightin' wolves was layin' lambs beside the way they talked. Hiram
said frank 'n' open as the reason he did n't want to walk in with his mother was he was sure
she would n't let him out to get married, but Lucy was dead set on the procession idea. So
in the end they done it so, 'n' Gran'ma Mullins's sobs fairly shook the house as they come
through the dinin'-room door. Lucy was first with her father 'n' they both had their heads
turned backward lookin' at Hiram 'n' his mother.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, it was certainly a sight worth seein'! The way that Gran'ma Mullins was
glued on! All I can say is as octopuses has got their backs turned in comparison to the way
that Hiram seemed to be all wrapped up in her. It looked like wild horses, not to speak of
Lucy Dill, would n't never be able to get him loose enough to marry him. The minister was scared;
we was all scared. I never see a worse situation to be in.

"They come along through the back parlor, Lucy lookin' back, Mr. Dill white as a sheet, 'n'
Hiram walkin' like a snow-plough as is n't sure how long it can keep on makin' it. It seemed
like a month as they was under way before they finally got stopped in front o' the minister.
'N' then come the time! Hiram had to step beside Lucy 'n' take her hand 'n' he could n't! We
all just gasped. There was Hiram tryin' to get loose 'n' Mr. Dill tryin' to help him. Gran'ma
Mullins's tears dripped till you could hear 'em, but she hung on to Hiram like he 'd paid for
it. They worked like Trojan beavers, but as fast as they 'd get one side of him uncovered she
'd take a fresh wind-round. I tell you, we all just held our breath, 'n' I bet Lucy was sorry
she persisted in havin' a procession when she see the perspiration runnin' off her father 'n'
poor Hiram.

"Finally Polly got frightened 'n' begun to cry, 'n' at that the deacon put his arm around her
'n' give her a hug, an' Gran'ma Mullins looked up just in time to see the arm 'n' the hug.
It seemed like it was the last hay in the donkey, for she give a weak screech 'n' went right
over on Mr. Dill. She had such a grip on Hiram that if it had n't been for Lucy he 'd have
gone over, too, but Lucy just hung on herself that time, 'n' Hiram was rescued without nothin'
worse than his hair mussed 'n' one sleeve a little tore. Mr. Sperrit 'n' Mr. Jilkins carried
Gran'ma Mullins into the dinin'-room, 'n' I said to just leave her fainted till after we 'd
got Hiram well 'n' truly married; so they did.

"I never see the minister rattle nothin' through like that marriage-service. Every one was
on whole papers of pins 'n' needles, 'n' the minute it was over every one just felt like sittin'
right straight down.

"Mrs. Macy 'n' me went up 'n' watered Gran'ma Mullins till we brought her to, 'n' when she
learned as it was all done she picked up wonderful 'n' felt as hungry as any one, 'n' come
downstairs 'n' kissed Lucy 'n' caught a corner on Mrs. Dill just like she 'd never been no
trouble to no one from first to last. I never see such a sudden change in all my life; it was
like some miracle had come out all over her 'n' there was n't no one there as was n't rejoiced
to death.

"We all went out in the dinin'-room 'n' the sun shone in 'n' every one laughed over nothin'
a tall. Mrs. Sperrit pinned Hiram up from inside so his tear did n't show, 'n' Lucy 'n' he
set side by side 'n' looked like no one was ever goin' to ever be married again. Polly 'n'
the deacon set opposite 'n' the minister 'n' his wife 'n' Mr. Dill 'n' Gran'ma Mullins made
up the table. The rest stood around, 'n' we was all as lively as words can tell. The cake was
one o' the handsomest as I ever see, two pigeons peckin' a bell on top 'n' Hiram 'n' Lucy runnin'
around below in pink. There was a dime inside 'n' a ring, an' I got the dime, 'n' they must
have forgot to put in the ring for no one got it."

Susan paused and panted.

"It was--" commented Mrs. Lathrop, thoughtfully.

"Nice that I got the dime?--yes, I should say. There certainly was n't no one there as needed
it worse, 'n', although I 'd never be one to call a dime a fortune, still it is a dime, 'n'
no one can't deny it the honor, no matter how they feel. But, Mrs. Lathrop, what you 'd ought
to have seen was Hiram 'n' Lucy ready to go off. I bet no one knows they 're brides--I bet
no one knows what they are,--you never saw the like in all your worst dreams. Hiram wore spectacles
'n' carpet-slippers 'n' that old umbrella as Mr. Shores keeps at the store to keep from bein'
stole, 'n' Lucy wore clothes she 'd found in trunks 'n' her hair in curl-papers, 'n' her cold-cream
gloves. They certainly was a sight, 'n' Gran'ma Mullins laughed as hard as any one over them.
Mr. Sperrit drove 'em to the train, 'n' Hiram says he 's goin' to spend two dollars a day right
along till he comes back; so I guess Lucy 'll have a good time for once in her life. 'N' Gran'ma
Mullins walked back with me 'n' not one word o' Hiram did she speak. She was all Polly 'n'
the deacon. She said it wa'n't in reason as Polly could imagine him with hair, 'n' she said
she was thinkin' very seriously o' givin' her a piece o' his hair as she 's got, for a weddin'
present. She said Polly 'd never know what he was like the night he give her that hair. She
said the moon was shinin' 'n' the frogs were croakin', 'n' she kind o' choked; she says she
can't smell a marsh to this day without seein' the deacon givin' her that piece of hair. I
cheered her up all I could--I told her anyhow he could n't give Polly a piece of his hair if
he died for it. She smiled a weak smile 'n' went on up to Mrs. Brown's. Mrs. Brown 's asked
her to stay with her a day or two. Mrs. Brown has her faults, but nobody can't deny as she
's got a good heart,--in fact, sometimes I think Mrs. Brown's good heart is about the worst
fault she's got. I 've knowed it lead her to do very foolish things time 'n' again--things
as I thank my star I 'd never think o' doin'--not in this world."

Mrs. Lathrop shifted her elbows a little; Susan withdrew at once from the fence.

"I must go in," she said, "to-morrow is goin' to be a more 'n full day. There 's Polly's weddin'
'n' then in the evenin' Mr. Weskin is comin' up. You need n't look surprised, Mrs. Lathrop,
because I 've thought the subject over up 'n' down 'n' hind end foremost 'n' there ain't nothin'
left for me to do. I can't sell nothin' else 'n' I 've got to have money, so I 'm goin' to
let go of one of those bonds as father left me. There ain't no way out of it; I told Mr. Weskin
I 'd expect him at sharp eight on sharp business, 'n' he 'll come. 'N' I must go as a consequence.
Good night."

PART FOURTH

MR. JILKINS'S HAT

Polly Allen's wedding took place the next day, and Mrs. Lathrop came out on her front piazza
about half past five to wait for her share in the event.

The sight of Mrs. Brown going by with her head bound up in a white cloth, accompanied by Gran'ma
Mullins with both hands similarly treated, was the first inkling the stay-at-home had that
strange doings had been lately done.

Susan came next and Susan was a sight! Not only did her ears stand up with a size and conspicuousness
never inherited from either her father or her mother, but also her right eye was completely
closed and she walked lame.

"The Lord have mercy!" cried Mrs. Lathrop, when the full force of her friend's affliction effected
its complete entrance into her brain,--"Why, Susan, what--"

"Mrs. Lathrop," said Miss Clegg, "all I can say is I come out better than the most of 'em,
'n' if you could see Sam Duruy or Mr. Kimball or the minister you 'd know I spoke the truth.
The deacon 'n' Polly is both in bed 'n' can't see how each other looks, 'n' them as has a eye
is goin' to tend them as can't see at all, an' God help 'em all if young Dr. Brown an' the
mud run dry!" with which pious ejaculation Susan painfully mounted the steps and sat down with
exceeding gentleness upon a chair.

Mrs. Lathrop stared at her in dumb and wholly bewildered amazement. After a while Miss Clegg
continued.

"It was all the deacon's fault. Him 'n' Polly was so dead set on bein' fashionable 'n' bein'
a contrast to Hiram an Lucy, 'n' I hope to-night as they lay there all puffed up as they 'll
reflect on their folly 'n' think a little on how the rest of us as did n't care rhyme or reason
for folly is got no choice but to puff up, too. Mrs. Jilkins is awful mad; she says Mr. Jilkins
wanted to wear his straw hat anyhow, 'n' she says she always has hated his silk hat 'cause
it reminds her o' when she was young 'n' foolish enough to be willin' to go 'n' marry into
a family as was foolish enough to marry into Deacon White. Mrs. Jilkins is extra hot because
she got one in the neck, but my own idea is as Polly Allen's weddin' was the silliest doin's
as I ever see from the beginnin', 'n' the end wa'n't no more than might o' been expected--all
things considered.

"When I got to the church, what do you think was the first thing as I see, Mrs. Lathrop? Well,
you 'd never guess till kingdom come, so I may as well tell you. It was Ed 'n' Sam Duruy 'n'
Henry Ward Beecher 'n' Johnny standin' there waitin' to show us to our pews like we did n't
know our own pews after sittin' in 'em for all our life-times! I just shook my head 'n' walked
to my pew, 'n' there, if it was n't looped shut with a daisy-chain! Well, Mrs. Lathrop, I wish
you could have been there to have felt for me, for I may remark as a cyclone is a caterpillar
wove up in hisself beside my face when I see myself daisy-chained out o' my own pew by Polly
Allen. Ed was behind me 'n' he whispered 'That's reserved for the family.' I give him one look
'n' I will state, Mrs. Lathrop, as he wilted. It did n't take me long to break that daisy-chain
'n' sit down in that pew, 'n' I can assure you as no one asked me to get up again. Mrs. Jilkins's
cousins from Meadville come 'n' looked at me sittin' there, but I give them jus' one look back
'n' they went 'n' sat with Mrs. Macy themselves. A good many other folks was as surprised as
me over where they had to sit, but we soon had other surprises as took the taste o' the first
clean out o' our mouths.

"Just as Mrs. Davison begin to play the organ, Ed 'n' Johnny come down with two clothes-lines
wound 'round with clematis 'n' tied us all in where we sat. Then they went back 'n' we all
stayed still 'n' could n't but wonder what under the sun was to be done to us next. But we
did n't have long to wait, 'n' I will say as anythin' to beat Polly's ideas I never see--no--nor
no one else neither.

"'Long down the aisle, two 'n' two, 'n' hand in hand, like they thought they was suthin' pretty
to look at, come Ed 'n' Johnny 'n' Henry Ward Beecher 'n' Sam Duruy, 'n' I vow 'n' declare,
Mrs. Lathrop, I never was so nigh to laughin' in church in all my life. They knowed they was
funny, too, 'n' their mouths 'n' eyes was tight set sober, but some one in the back just had
to giggle, 'n' when we heard it we knew as things as was n't much any other day would use us
up this day, sure. They stopped in front 'n' lined up, two on a side, 'n' then, for all the
world like it was a machine-play, the little door opened 'n' out come the minister 'n' solemnly
walked down to between them. I must say we was all more than a little disappointed at its only
bein' the minister, 'n' he must have felt our feelin's, for he began to cough 'n' clear up
his throat 'n' his little desk all at once. Then Mrs. Davison jerked out the loud stop 'n'
began to play for all she was worth, 'n' the door behind banged 'n' every one turned aroun' to see.

"Well, Mrs. Lathrop, we saw,--'n' I will in truth remark as such a sawin' we 'll never probably
get a chance to do again! Mrs. Sweet says they practised it over four times at the church,
so they can't deny as they meant it all, 'n' you might lay me crossways 'n' cut me into chipped
beef 'n' still I would declare as I would n't have the face to own to havin' had any hand in
plannin' any such weddin'.

"First come 'Liza Em'ly 'n' Rachel Rebecca hand in hand carryin' daisies--of all things in
the world to take to a weddin'--'n' then come Brunhilde Susan, with a daisy-chain around her
neck 'n' her belt stuck full o' daisies 'n'--you can believe me or not, jus' as you please,
Mrs. Lathrop, 'n' still it won't help matters any--'n' a daisy stuck in every button down her
back, 'n' daisies tangled up in her hair, 'n' a bunch o' daisies under one arm.

"Well, we was nigh to overcome by Brunhilde Susan, but we drawed some fresh breath 'n' kept
on lookin', 'n' next come Polly 'n' Mr. Allen. I will say for Mr. Allen as he seemed to feel
the ridiculousness of it all, for a redder man I never see, nor one as looked more uncomfortable.
He was daisied, too--had three in his buttonhole;--but what took us all was the way him 'n'
Polly walked. I bet no people gettin' married ever zigzagged like that before, 'n' Mrs. Sweet
says they practised it by countin' two 'n' then swingin' out to one side, 'n' then countin'
two 'n' swingin' out to the other--she watched 'em out of her attic window down through the
broke blind to the church. Well, all I can say is, that to my order o' thinkin' countin' 'n'
swingin' is a pretty frame o' mind to get a husband in, but so it was, 'n' we was all starin'
our eyes off to beat the band when the little door opened 'n', to crown everythin' else, out
come the deacon 'n Mr. Jilkins, each with a daisy 'n' a silk hat, 'n' I will remark, Mrs. Lathrop,
as new-born kittens is blood-red murderers compared to how innocent that hat o' Mr. Jilkins
looked. Any one could see as it was n't new, but he was n't new either as far as that goes,
'n' that was what struck me in particular about the whole thing--nothin' 'n' nobody was n't
any different only for Polly's foolishness 'n' the daisies.

"Well, they sorted out 'n' begun to get married, 'n' us all sittin' lookin' on 'n' no more
guessin' what was comin' next than a ant looks for a mornin' paper. The minister was gettin'
most through 'n' the deacon was gettin' out the ring, 'n' we was lookin' to get up 'n' out
pretty quick, when--my heavens alive, Mrs. Lathrop, I never will forget that minute--when Mr.
Jilkins--poor man, he's sufferin' enough for it, Lord knows!--when Mr. Jilkins dropped his hat!

"That very next second him 'n' Ed 'n' Brunhilde Susan all hopped 'n' yelled at once, 'n' the
next thing we see was the minister droppin' his book 'n' grabbin' his arm 'n' the deacon tryin'
madly to do hisself up in Polly's veil. We would 'a' all been plum petrified at such goings
on any other day, only by that time the last one of us was feelin' to hop and grab 'n' yell
on his own account. Gran'ma Mullins was tryin' to slap herself with the seat cushion, 'n' the
way the daisies flew as folks went over 'n' under that clematis rope was a caution. I got out
as quick as I--"

"But what--" interrupted Mrs. Lathrop, her eyes fairly marble-like in their redundant curiosity.

"It was wasps!" said Susan. "It was a young wasps' nest in Mr. Jilkins's hat. Seems they carried
their hats to church in their hands 'cause Polly did n't want no red rings around 'em, 'n'
so he never suspected nothin' till he dropped it. 'N' oh, poor little Brunhilde Susan in them
short skirts of hers--she might as well have wore a bee-hive! I will in confidence remark as
I got off easy, 'n' you can look at me 'n' figger on what them as got it hard has got on them.
Young Dr. Brown went right to work with mud 'n' Polly's veil 'n' plastered 'em over as fast
as they could get into Mrs. Sweet's. Mrs. Sweet was mighty obligin' 'n' turned two flower-beds
inside out 'n' let every one scoop with her kitchen spoons, besides runnin' aroun' herself
like she was a slave gettin' paid. They took the deacon 'n' Polly right to their own house.
They can't see one another anyhow, 'n' they was most all married anyway, so it did n't seem
worth while to wait till the minister gets the use of his upper lip again."

"Why--" interrogated Mrs. Lathrop.

"Young Dr. Brown wanted to," said Susan, "he wanted to fill my ears with mud, 'n' my eye, too,
but I did n't feel to have it done. You can't die o' wasps' bills, 'n' you can o' young Dr.
Brown's--leastways when you ain't got no money to pay 'em, like I ain't got just at present."

"It 's--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"Yes," said Susan, "it struck me that way, too. This seems to be a very unlucky town. Anything
as comes seems to catch us all in a bunch. The cow most lamed the whole community 'n' the automobile
most broke its back; time 'll tell what 'll be the result o' these wasps, but there won't be
no church Sunday for one thing, I know.

"'N' it ain't the least o' my woes, Mrs. Lathrop, to think as I 've got to sit 'n' smile on
Mr. Weskin to-night from between two such ears as is on me, for a man is a man, 'n' it can't
be denied as a woman as is mainly ears ain't beguilin'. Besides, I may in confidence state
to you, Mrs. Lathrop, as the one as buzzed aroun' my head wa'n't really no wasp a tall in comparison
to the one as got under my skirts."

Mrs. Lathrop's eyes were full of sincere condolence; she did not even imagine a smile as she
gazed upon her afflicted friend.

"I must go," said the latter, rising with a groan, "seems like I never will reach the bottom
o' my troubles this year. I keep thinkin' there's nothin' left 'n' then I get a wasp at each
end at once. Well, I 'll come over when Mr. Weskin goes--if I have strength."

Then she limped home.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was about nine that night that she returned and pounded vigorously on her friend's window-pane.
Mrs. Lathrop woke from her rocker-nap, went to the window and opened it. Susan stood below
and the moon illuminated her smile and her ears with its most silvery beams.

"He 's just gone!" she announced.

"Yes," said Mrs. Lathrop, rubbing her eyes.

"He's gone; I come over to tell you."

"What--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

"I would n't care if my ears was as big as a elephant's now."

"Why--" asked Mrs. Lathrop.

"Mrs. Lathrop, you know as I took them bonds straight after father died 'n' locked 'em up 'n'
I ain't never unlocked 'em since?"

Mrs. Lathrop assented with a single rapt nod.

"Well, when I explained to Mr. Weskin as I 'd got to have money 'n' how was the best way to
sell a bond, he just looked at me, 'n' what do you think he said--what do you think he said,
Mrs. Lathrop?"

Mrs. Lathrop hung far out over the window-sill--her gaze was the gaze of the ever earnest and
interested.

Susan stood below. Her face was aglow with the joy of the affluent--her very voice might have
been for once entitled as silvery.

"He said, Mrs. Lathrop, he said, 'Miss Clegg, why don't you go down to the bank and cut your
coupons?'"

       *       *       *       *       *

                          A VERY SUPERIOR MAN

Miss Clegg sat in Mrs. Lathrop's rocking-chair, on Mrs. Lathrop's kitchen stoop. Mrs. Lathrop
sat at her friend's feet, picking over currants. If she picked over a great many she intended
making jelly; if only a few, the result was to be a pie.

Susan had on her bonnet and mitts and held her sun-umbrella firmly gripped between her two
hands and her two knees. She looked weary and worn.

"It seems kind o' funny that I bothered to go, now that I come to think it over," she said,
gazing meditatively down upon her friend and her friend's currant-picking; "I wa'n't no relation
of Rufus Timmans, 'n' although I don't deny as it 's always a pleasure to go to any one's funeral,
still it's a long ways to Meadville, 'n' the comin' back was most awful, not to speak o' havin'
no dinner nowhere. It never makes no one brisk but a horse to go without eatin', 'n' I must
in consequence say 't I was really very sorry as Rufus was dead durin' the last part of the
drive; but o' course he was a very superior man, 'n' as a consequence nobody wanted to have
it said in after life as they wa'n't to his buryin'. So I went along with the rest, 'n' Heaven
help me now, for I never was more beat out in all my life. I was up awful early this mornin'
to be sure o' not bein' left, 'n' I may in confidence remark as I 've thought many times to-day
as if I had been left I 'd of been a sight better off. Long rides is very frisky for them as
is young 'n' in love 'n' likes to drive alternate, but for a woman o' my age, bein' wedged
solid for sixteen miles at a time is most tryin'; 'n' comin' back some o' them smart Meadville
boys had the fine idea o' puttin' walnuts under the seats, 'n' we rode most of the way thinkin'
as they was our bones till Mr. Dill jus' got up 'n' whopped his cushion over to see if it 'd
feel any different the other side, 'n' I may state as the results I shall remember till I die."

"Who--" began Mrs. Lathrop.

"Everybody!" said Susan; "I never knowed how superior Rufus was till I see how folks turned
out for his funeral. Every minister 'n' doctor in the whole vicinity was there. The Lumbs drove
way up from Clightville, got overturned in the brook by the old knife factory, but come along
just the same. Old Mr. 'n' Mrs. Trumbull started day before yesterday as soon as they knowed
he was dead 'n' ate with relations all the way along 'n' got them to come too whenever they
could. They was seven buggies 'n' two democrats when they arrived at last. Mrs. Macy was waitin'
for me in the square when I got there this mornin' 'n' she told me as a city reporter had come
up to write a account of it 'n' as Dr. Cogswell was goin' to be there. They say as a live bishop
wanted to make the prayer but Rufus was so advanced in his views it seemed better not to come
out too strong over his dead body. Mrs. Macy said it all showed what a very superior man he
was. She says as she feels as maybe we did n't appreciate him enough. She says maybe we was
prejudiced. Lord knows it's very hard not to be prejudiced agin' the folks you live among,
'n' I guess any one as see Rufus mildly stumblin' around losin' pocket-handkerchiefs 'd of
had a hard time regardin' him as superior; but he was superior, 'n' Mrs. Macy says he always
was superior, for her aunt, old Mrs. Kitts, of Meadville, remembers when he was born, 'n' Mrs.
Macy says Mrs. Kitts always says as he was superior right from the start. She says as Mrs.
Kitts says as Rufus's father was really 'most a nuisance, talkin' about his superiority even
the very first week he was born. Mrs. Macy says Mrs. Kitts says that his father said right
off the day he was born, as to his order o' thinkin' Rufus was different from other babies
right then 'n' there. He told Mrs. Kitts hisself as he knowed folks was often fools over their
first babies, 'n' he did n't calcalate to act no such part, but in common honesty he must state
as Rufus was 'way above the ordinary run, not because he was his baby, but just because it
was the plain truth. Mrs. Kitts said she see Rufus herself when he wa'n't but three days old,
'n' she told Mrs. Macy as she must in truth confess as he looked then jus' about as he always
looked--kind of too awful wise to have any sense a tall. Mrs. Macy says Mrs. Kitts says the
superior thing about Rufus them first days was the way as his mother looked on him. Mrs. Kitts
says Tabitha Timmans was a mos' remarkable woman, straight up her back 'n' all in 'n' out in
front--one o' them women as is most all teeth--front teeth, 'n' Mrs. Kitts said whenever she
looked at Rufus she was all back teeth too. They had him in a clothes-basket to keep off draughts,
with a quilt to pervent changes in the weather, 'n' a mosquito-nettin' for fear a fly might
thaw out unexpectedly 'n' get near him. Mrs. Kitts said Tabitha Timmans was just about wild
over him; she told Mrs. Kitts she felt it gallopin' up 'n' down her spine as how Rufus was
surely goin' to grow up to be a inspector--or mebbe the president; she said any one could see
he was in for bein' suthin' high up 'n' sort o' quiet 'n' important. Tilda Ann, Sammy Timmans's
aunt, was there too. Mrs. Kitts says she always liked Tilda Ann, what little she see of her,
even if she was n't patient. Mrs. Macy says Mrs. Kitts says Tilda Ann never had no real fault,
only her never bein' able to be patient. She says if Tilda Ann had only had a little patience
it 'd of been a great deal better for her in the end, for if Tilda Ann 'd had a little more
patience she 'd never have come scurryin' home cross-lots that night in the fog 'n' gone hickety-pickety
over the well-curb, thinkin' it was a stone wall. Mrs. Kitts says she never can help considerin'
what a shock Tilda Ann must have got when she realized as she was over, 'n' so was everythin'
else."

"My--" said Mrs. Lathrop.

