IOLA LEROY,

OR

SHADOWS UPLIFTED.

BY

FRANCES E.W. HARPER.

1893, Philadelphia

TO MY DAUGHTER

MARY E. HARPER,

THIS BOOK IS LOVINGLY DEDICATED.

INTRODUCTION.

I confess when I first learned that Mrs. Harper was about to write "a story" on some features
of the Anglo-African race, growing out of what was once popularly known as the "peculiar institution,"
I had my doubts about the matter. Indeed it was far from being easy for me to think that she
was as fortunate as she might have been in selecting a subject which would afford her the best
opportunity for bringing out a work of merit and lasting worth to the race--such a work as
some of her personal friends have long desired to see from her graphic pen. However, after
hearing a good portion of the manuscript read, and a general statement with regard to the object
in view, I admit frankly that my partial indifference was soon swept away; at least I was willing
to wait for further developments.

Being very desirous that one of the race, so long distinguished in the cause of freedom for
her intellectual worth as Mrs. Harper has had the honor of being, should not at this late date
in life make a blunder which might detract from her own good name, I naturally proposed to
await developments before deciding too quickly in favor of giving encouragement to her contemplated
effort. 

What the child has by nature is neither good nor definite, right nor wrong-- it cannot become either according
to the habits which grow out of these tendencies.

A child's inborn nature may determine the goal of his education.

His nature has remained practically the same from the characters of primitive man,
while the goals of education have changed.

What nature does provide is an immense number of bad responses to definite
situations. These provide a capital which education and training may use as
it will.

Oh it is just because education does need to these tendencies of capital
that the lack of knowledge of just what the responses are is such
a serious one.

And yet the difficulties of determining just what original
nature gives are so tremendous that the task seems the hopeless one
to many investigators.

Everywhere help was needed, and her heart being deeply absorbed in the cause she willingly
allowed her sympathies to impel her to perform most heroic services.

With her it was no uncommon occurrence, in visiting cities or towns, to speak at two, three,
and four meetings a day; sometimes to promiscuous audiences composed of everybody who would
care to come.

But the kind of meetings she took greatest interest in were meetings called exclusively for
women. In this attitude she could pour out her sympathies to them as she could not do before
a mixed audience; and indeed she felt their needs were far more pressing than any other class.

And now I am prepared to most fully indorse her story. I doubt whether she could, if she had
tried ever so much, have hit upon a subject so well adapted to reach a large number of her
friends and the public with both entertaining and instructive matter as successfully as she
has done in this volume.

The grand and ennobling sentiments which have characterized all her utterances in laboring
for the elevation of the oppressed will not be found missing in this book.

The previous books from her pen, which have been so very widely circulated and admired, North
and South--"Forest Leaves," "Miscellaneous Poems," "Moses, a Story of the Nile," "Poems," and
"Sketches of Southern Life" (five in number)--these, I predict, will be by far eclipsed by
this last effort, which will, in all probability, be the crowning effort of her long and valuable
services in the cause of humanity.

While, as indicated, Mrs. Harper has done a large amount of work in the South, she has at the
same time done much active service in the temperance cause in the North, as thousands of this
class can testify.

Before the war she was engaged as a speaker by anti-slavery associations; since then, by appointment
of the Women's Christian Temperance Union, she has held the office of "Superintendent of Colored
Work" for years. She has also held the office of one of the Directors of the Women's Congress
of the United States.

Under the auspices of these influential, earnest, and intelligent associations, she has been
seen often on their platforms with the leading lady orators of the nation.

Hence, being widely known not only amongst her own race but likewise by the reformers, laboring
for the salvation of the intemperate and others equally unfortunate, there is little room to
doubt that the book will be in great demand and will meet with warm congratulations from a
goodly number outside of the author's social connections.

Doubtless the thousands of colored Sunday-schools in the South, in casting about for an interesting,
moral story-book, full of practical lessons, will not be content to be without "IOLA LEROY,
OR SHADOWS UPLIFTED."

WILLIAM STILL.

CONTENTS.

Chapter

I. The Mystery of Market Speech and Prayer Meetings

II. Contraband of War

III. Uncle Daniel's Story

IV. Arrival of the Union Army

V. Release of Iola Leroy

VI. Robert Johnson's Promotion and Religion

VII. Tom Anderson's Death

VIII. The Mystified Doctor

IX. Eugene Leroy and Alfred Lorraine

X. Shadows in the Home

XI. The Plague and the Law

XII. School-girl Notions

XIII. A Rejected Suitor

XIV. Harry Leroy

XV. Robert and his Company

XVI. After the Battle

XVII. Flames in the School-Room

XVIII. Searching for Lost Ones

XIX. Striking Contrasts

XX. A Revelation

XXI. A Home for Mother

XXII. Further Lifting of the Veil

XXIII. Delightful Reunions

XXIV. Northern Experience

XXV. An Old Friend

XXVI. Open Questions

XXVII. Diverging Paths

XXVIII. Dr. Latrobe's Mistake

XXIX. Visitors from the South

XXX. Friends in Council

XXXI. Dawning Affections

XXXII. Wooing and Wedding

XXXIII. Conclusion

Note

CHAPTER I.

MYSTERY OF MARKET SPEECH AND PRAYER-MEETING.

"Good mornin', Bob; how's butter dis mornin'?"

"Fresh; just as fresh, as fresh can be."

"Oh, glory!" said the questioner, whom we shall call Thomas Anderson, although he was known
among his acquaintances as Marster Anderson's Tom.

His informant regarding the condition of the market was Robert Johnson, who had been separated
from his mother in his childhood and reared by his mistress as a favorite slave. She had fondled
him as a pet animal, and even taught him to read. Notwithstanding their relation as mistress
and slave, they had strong personal likings for each other.

Tom Anderson was the servant of a wealthy planter, who lived in the city of C----, North Carolina.
This planter was quite advanced in life, but in his earlier days he had spent much of his time
in talking politics in his State and National capitals in winter, and in visiting pleasure
resorts and watering places in summer. His plantations were left to the care of overseers who,
in their turn, employed negro drivers to aid them in the work of cultivation and discipline.
But as the infirmities of age were pressing upon him he had withdrawn from active life, and
given the management of his affairs into the hands of his sons. As Robert Johnson and Thomas
Anderson passed homeward from the market, having bought provisions for their respective homes,
they seemed to be very light-hearted and careless, chatting and joking with each other; but
every now and then, after looking furtively around, one would drop into the ears of the other
some news of the battle then raging between the North and South which, like two great millstones,
were grinding slavery to powder.

As they passed along, they were met by another servant, who said in hurried tones, but with
a glad accent in his voice:--

"Did you see de fish in de market dis mornin'? Oh, but dey war splendid, jis' as fresh, as
fresh kin be."

"That's the ticket," said Robert, as a broad smile overspread his face. "I'll see you later."

"Good mornin', boys," said another servant on his way to market. "How's eggs dis mornin'?"

"Fust rate, fust rate," said Tom Anderson. "Bob's got it down fine."

"I thought so; mighty long faces at de pos'-office dis mornin'; but I'd better move 'long,"
and with a bright smile lighting up his face he passed on with a quickened tread.

There seemed to be an unusual interest manifested by these men in the state of the produce
market, and a unanimous report of its good condition. Surely there was nothing in the primeness
of the butter or the freshness of the eggs to change careless looking faces into such expressions
of gratification, or to light dull eyes with such gladness. What did it mean?

During the dark days of the Rebellion, when the bondman was turning his eyes to the American
flag, and learning to hail it as an ensign of deliverance, some of the shrewder slaves, coming
in contact with their masters and overhearing their conversations, invented a phraseology to
convey in the most unsuspected manner news to each other from the battle-field. Fragile women
and helpless children were left on the plantations while their natural protectors were at the
front, and yet these bondmen refrained from violence. Freedom was coming in the wake of the
Union army, and while numbers deserted to join their forces, others remained at home, slept
in their cabins by night and attended to their work by day; but under this apparently careless
exterior there was an undercurrent of thought which escaped the cognizance of their masters.
In conveying tidings of the war, if they wished to announce a victory of the Union army, they
said the butter was fresh, or that the fish and eggs were in good condition. If defeat befell
them, then the butter and other produce were rancid or stale.

Entering his home, Robert set his basket down. In one arm he held a bundle of papers which
he had obtained from the train to sell to the boarders, who were all anxious to hear from the
seat of battle. He slipped one copy out and, looking cautiously around, said to Linda, the
cook, in a low voice:--

"Splendid news in the papers. Secesh routed. Yankees whipped 'em out of their boots. Papers
full of it. I tell you the eggs and the butter's mighty fresh this morning."

"Oh, sho, chile," said Linda, "I can't read de newspapers, but ole Missus' face is newspaper
nuff for me. I looks at her ebery mornin' wen she comes inter dis kitchen. Ef her face is long
an' she walks kine o' droopy den I thinks things is gwine wrong for dem. But ef she comes out
yere looking mighty pleased, an' larffin all ober her face, an' steppin' so frisky, den I knows
de Secesh is gittin' de bes' ob de Yankees. Robby, honey, does you really b'lieve for good
and righty dat dem Yankees is got horns?"

"Of course not."

"Well, I yered so."

"Well, you heard a mighty big whopper."

"Anyhow, Bobby, things goes mighty contrary in dis house. This question is: "in your opinion are
the Negro colleges meeting the needs of definite religious training?" every one's answer except one might
be summarized thus: some good has been accomplished but we are far from the real goal. We need
reconstruction and a new impetus.

The emphasis which they are putting on expressional activity as an essential in the process of
religious education does seem to indicate that they regard self activity. Wherever the social service
was very scant the one reporting felt it his duty to give an apology for the actual conditions and express
a hope of better results in the future. This showed that they felt
it the vital factor in the progressive socialization of the individuals.
The place of prominence given to worship, to religious services on
Sunday and in the week is either an index to their conception concerning
the value of worship or else an index of their habit toward orthodoxy.
Circumstances surrounding these schools would suggest the former
for the larger number of these institutions.

Some current CONCEPTIONS of religious EDUCATION in RELATION to general
EDUCATION religious education is considered a part of general education
and is included under that genus.

What is general education? for a long time education was defined in terms of
intellect, but that ground is no longer tenable. Spencer said: "Education
is the preparation for complete living." modern educators reject this as
an inadequate statement of education. Education does not merely prepare
for something in the future.

It endeavors to fill one full of life, and human experience during the educative
process. Education must be expressed in social terms. James describes education
as the organization of acquired habits of conduct and tendencies to behavior.
A emphasizes the psychological side. It was thought that the aim
of education could be expressed in purely individual terms.

It was said to be a harmonious development of all the powers of the
individual.

Dewey attacks this definition showing that there is no criterion for telling what is meant by the terms
used. There is nothing in the make-out of human beings, taken in any isolated way which furnishes controlling
ends and serves to mark out powers. Unless we have the aim supplied
by social life we have only the old faculty psychology to furnish
us with ideas of powers in general or the specific powers.

[3] Dewey defines education as the regulation of the process of coining to share in the social consciousness.
And the majority of educators use social terms to define education. Soares has this conception
in mind when he gives the following definition of education. "Education is a scientifically directed
process of developing progressive socialized personality." but to achieve personality one must achieve sympathy
and sympathy is one of the concerns of religion. Hence all true education
involves religion. What is religion? Wright in the american Journal
of Theology, Volume xvi, page 385, quotes leuba as defining religion
as a belief in a psychic superhuman power.

Wright has objections to this definition on the ground of its narrowness.
He attempts to add breadth to the definition in: "Religion is the endeavor
to secure the conservation of socially recognized values, through
specific actions that are believed to evoke some agency different
from the ordinary ego of the individual or from other merely human
beings, and that imply a feeling of dependence upon this agency.

Religion is the social attitude toward the non-human environment."
this is not synonymous with sectarianism, creeds, dogmas or ceremonies.

Creeds and ceremonies have to do with ecclesiasticism not with religion
per se. Creeds are developments of theology and dogma is an outgrowth of
religion and not religion.

Modes of worship developed into rites and ceremonies are ecclesiastical means
of fostering the religious spirit but not religion. Religion is not
a feeling to be imposed from without. Religion is a life and a life-long
process. "the religious life is the response the heart of man makes to God,
as the heart of the universe. The religious person is one who is conscious
of his divinity because of his kinship with the universe through
God, and who because of this consciousness seeks fellowship with God
and the godly." having arrived at the conclusion concerning education
and religion which are given by some of the most representative students
of the subjects, let us ascertain some conceptions of religious education.

As indicated in the beginning of this topic, religious education is not regarded as a separate entity. It is
a part of the process of efficient education. The human organism is a unit. Life is a whole
and connects physical, mental and religious phases. The whole personality is the object for
consideration for the educator. The emphasis in education varies from physical to mental and from
mental to religious, or social. When the emphasis is placed on the social or religious phase the
procedure may be properly called religious education. Professor Hartshorn
carries the social idea to an adequate conclusion. He says: "religious
education is the process by which the individual in response to a
controlled environment, achieves a progressive, conscious social [4]
order based on regard for the worth and destiny of every individual."

Professor Peabody states the matter in the following words: [5] "religious
education is the drawing up of the religious nature, the clarifying
and strengthening of religious ideals, the enriching and rationalizing
of the sense of God.... the end of religious education is service...."

Dewey's idea of education is much akin to the current conceptions
of religious education. The standard of each is found in the functional
relationship of each to society.

Modes of expression and emphasis may vary but the ideals for both are the same. Dr. Haslett [7]
has given an unique representation of this conception. "religious education," says he, "is closely related
to secular education and is largely dependent upon it. The fundamental laws and principles of psychology
and of education require to be recognized as central." Professor Coe [8] reminds us, however,
that "religious education is not and cannot be a mere application
of any generalities in which the university departments of education
deal.

It is not a mere particular that gets its meaning or finds its test in the
general." religious education deals with original data and with specific
problems that rarely appear in the instruction that is called'general'and
that grow out of the specific nature of our educational purpose.

In the analysis of these data and in the determination of the method,
we can and must use matter contained in general courses of education. But
the field of study of religious education is not exhausted very, but is
so specific and yet so broad as properly to constitute a recognized
branch of educational practice.

The religious purpose in religious education yields the point of view and the principles of classification
that are important for religious educators. The conceptions of religious education just passed in
review warrant certain deductions. Any institution which meets adequately the requirements of religious
education must have genuinely religious men and women in the entire teaching and official force.
Such persons will determine the atmosphere and spirit of the institution. These
teachers should have clear conceptions of the ideals of religious
education.

The blind cannot lead the blind. The students must be trained along three fundamental lines, of the religious
life. First, he must have some of the intellectual value of religion. He must have social knowledge.
He must have the opportunity of expressing the devotional attitude in
worship. He must have the outlet of religious energy in social service.
The duty of the college will be far from discharged unless it makes provision
for laboratory religion where there is a working place for each member.

Religion is a life and the college should be a society where this life may be lived in its fullest extent,
encouraging practical altruism and giving the protection which an ideal
society affords against demoralization. EVOLUTION of religious EDUCATION
in NEGRO COLLEGES and UNIVERSITIES the problem of religious education
in Negro institutions is real.

On the basis of the investigation we are able to point out some prominent phases of the problem.
The first element of this problem is the teacher.

There are in negro colleges, 22 teachers of religious education who have had no professional training
for the work. This means that one-fourth of the entire corp of teachers
of religion in these institutions are without the prestige, at least, of
even the semblance of professional training. Two main causes account for this.
These institutions have not those who are professionally trained
on their faculties and they lack funds to procure the service of such
persons.

In the next place they think it is not necessary. One observation here
is important.

These services seem to be significant in proportion to the participation
in them by the students themselves. The Sunday School and the young
People's meetings are the most popular services for the students.

They do the things in which they have a volitional interest. We cannot thrust our religious experiences upon
the students from without. They must achieve their own religious experience in contact with the environment
in which they live. The prayer meetings in all except four institutions follow
a program which was effective for those who lived in another civilization.
The traditional Negro prayer meeting does not function religiously in
the life of the Negro college student.

One of the big problems of religious education is compulsion in regard to religious services. Where should
that stop? many are beginning to think that the religious value of the services is often nullified
by the compulsory attendance. There are many conscientious objectors
among the students who think the removal of compulsion would be conducive
to better religious development. But the likelihood of some swinging
from one extreme to the other is there great.

It is still a problem left for the religious educators in the colleges
to solve.

The solution must result in the conservation of the good found in the compulsory system and the good
to be found in freedom of choice. Expressional activities are increasing in negro colleges but with
few exceptions these are inadequate in scope and number. It is true that not enough students are able to share in
the social service projects. This is really one of, if not the most important
factors in religious education. Men gain religious power by acting out
their beliefs, allowing their convictions to flow out into service. There
is an unfortunate lack of coordination of religious agencies in Negro
colleges. Frequently we find several organizations attempting to do the
same thing and each makes a miserable failure in the attempt.

More than that, this lack of coordination and correlation results
in duplications which surely mean wasted energy and non-effectiveness.

If all of the religious agencies were supervised in such a way that each
would know his specific task and would not overlap that of other agencies,
much more effective work would be the result. There are signs of hope
in the religious education of these Negro colleges. The almost unanimous
recognition of the religious motive in efficient education by the
educators and the manifest consciousness of needs of better religious
education have been mentioned.

There are others. An increasing number of trained teachers from Northern,
eastern and western colleges and universities is evident. These men and women
are coming from the institutions where the points of view and training
represented in the previous chapter are found. The summer schools of
the various colleges and universities in the North, East and West are offering
many of these modern religious education courses and larger numbers
of the teachers of religious education are availing themselves of
the opportunities.

Much literature of religious education published recently is finding its way to these schools, the most notable
of which is the religious Education Magazine.

The following sources were used in the preparation of this dissertation:
american Missionary Association Report, 1916; Baptist Missionary Society (Woman's)
reports, 1910-1916; Catalogues-- Negro Colleges, 1916-1917; W. E.
B. DuBois, Morals and Manners among negro Americans, Atlanta University
Publications, no. 18; Journal of the Proceedings of the a. M. E. Church
(General Conference), 1916; Thomas J. Jones, Negro Education, united
States Bureau of Education, Bulletins 38 and 39, 1916; Thomas J. Jones,
recent Movements in Negro Education, united States Bureau of Education,
1912, Vol.

I; Questionnaires, from negro Colleges, 1917; United States Bureau
of Education Investigations, Education in the South, Bulletin 30, 1933; Monroe
N. Work, Negro Year Book, 1914, 1915, 1916; young Men's christian
Association, Report of the international Committee, may 12, 1916;
Year Book, 1915-1916.

The author used also the following works for general reference: W. S. Athearn, Religion
in the Curriculum-religious Education; R. E. Bolton, Principles of
Education; H. F. Cope, the efficient Layman; H. F. Cope, fifteen Years
of the religious Education Association, the american Journal of Theology,
July 1917, p. 385 ff; Committee Report, Standardization of biblical
Courses, Rel.

The. August, 1916, p. 314 ff; Crawford, the Media of religious Impression
in College, N. E. A. 1914, p. 494 ff; John Dewey, ethical Principles underlying
Education, moral Principles in Education; t. S. O. Evans, the University
young Men's christian Association as a Training School for religious
Leaders, Rel.

Educ. 1908; H. F. Fowler, the Contents of an ideal Curriculum of religious
Education for Colleges, Rel. Educ.

1915, p. 355 ff; E. N. Hardy, the Churches and the educated Man; S. B. Haslett, pedagogical Bible
School, Parts i and ii; international Sunday School Association,
organized Work in America, Vol.

Xiii; C. F. Kent, Training the College Teacher, Rel. Educ. 1915, Vol.
X, p. 327; P. Monroe, Cyclopedia of Education, Vol. I, p. 370; E. C.
Moore, what is Education; a. Morgan, Education and social Progress;
F. G. Peabody, the religious Education of an american Child, Rel. Educ.
1915, p. 107; i. J. Peritz, the Contents of an ideal Curriculum of
religious Instruction, Rel.

Educ. Vol. X, 1915, p. 362; C. Reed, the essential Place of Religion in Education,
N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913, p. 66; R. Rhees, Evangelisation
of Education, biblical World, August 1916, p. 66; C. E. Pugh, the
essential Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication,
1913, p. 3; i. T. Wood, the Contents of an ideal Curriculum of religious
Instruction for Colleges, Rel.

Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 332; the Survey of Progress in religious and moral Education, Rel. Educ. 1915,
Vol. X, p. 114.

[2] none of these does all of the things described, but all of them do at least some one of them. [3]
Dewey, ethical Principles underlying Education. [4] Ideals in religious
Education, R. E. A., June, 1917, p. 185. [5] ibid., p. 94. [6] Dewey,
ethical Principles underlying Education. [7] pedagogical Bible School,
page 207. [8] R. E. A., April 19, 1917, page 123. The AFTERMATH of
NAT TURNER'S INSURRECTION [1] Nat Turner was a man below the ordinary
stature, though strong and active.

He was of unmixed african lineage, with the true Negro face, every feature of which was strongly marked.
He was not this preacher, as was generally believed, though a man
of deep religious and spiritual nature, and seemed inspired for the
performance of some extraordinary work.

He was austere in life and manner, not given to society, but devoted his spare moments to introspection
and consecration. He thought often of what he had heard said of him as
to the great work he was to perform. He eventually became seized
with this idea as a frenzy. To use his own language he saw many visions. Receiving,
as he says, further directions from the holy Spirit, he communicated
his designs to four of his most confidential friends. July 4, 1831, the
anniversary of American Independence, was the day on which the work
of death was to have been begun. Nat Turner hesitated and allowed the
time to pass by, when, the mysterious signs reappearing, he determined
to begin at once the bloody work.

Sunday, August 21, he met those who had pledged their cooperation
and support. They were hark Travis, Henry Porter, Samuel Francis,
Nelson Williams, will Francis and Jack reese, with Nat Turner making
the seventh. They worked out their plans while they ate in the lonely
woods of Southampton their feast of consecration, remaining at the
feast until long after midnight.

The massacre was begun at the house of Joseph Travis, the man to whom Nat Turner then belonged. Armed with a hatchet
Turner entered his master's chamber, the door having been broken
open with the axe, and aimed the first blow of death. The hatchet glanced
harmless from the head of the would-be victim and the first fatal blow
was given by will Francis, the one of the party who had got into
the plot without Nat Turner's suggestion.

All of his master's household, five in number, however perished. [4] the insurgents
procured here four guns, several old muskets with a few rounds of ammunition.
At educ barn, under the command of Nat Turner the party was drilled
and maneuvered. Nat Turner himself assumed the title of General Cargill
with a stipend of ten dollars a day.

Henry Porter, the paymaster, was to receive five dollars a day,
and each private one dollar.

Thence they marched from plantation to plantation until by Monday morning
the party numbered fifteen with nine mounted. Before nine o'clock the
force had increased to forty and the insurgents had covered an extent
of territory two or three miles distant from the first point of attack,
sweeping everything before them.

Nat Turner generally took his station in the rear, with fifteen or twenty of the best armed and reliable
men at the front, who generally approached the houses as fast as their horses could run for the
double purpose of preventing escapes and striking terror. His force continued to increase until they
numbered sixty, all armed with guns, axes, swords, and clubs, and mounted.
This line of attack was kept out until late Monday afternoon, when they reached
a point, about three miles distant from Jerusalem, the county seat,
where Nat Turner reluctantly yielded to a halt while some of his forces
went in search of reenforcements. He was eager to push on to the county
seat as speedily as possible and capture it. This delay proved the turning
point in the enterprise.

Impatient at
the delay of his men who had turned aside, Turner started to the mansion
house whither they had gone and on their return to the wood found
a party of white men who had pursued the bloody path of the insurrectionists
and disposed of the guard of eight men whom Turner had left at the
roadside.

The white men numbered eighteen and were under the command of Captain
Alexander P. Peete.

They
had been directed to reserve their fire until within thirty paces,
but one of their number fired on the insurgents when within about
one hundred yards.

Half of the whites beat a precipitate retreat when Nat Turner ordered
his men to fire and rush on them.

The few remaining white Church (General Conference), 1916; Journal
of the Proceedings of the methodist episcopal men stood their ground
until Turner approached within fifty yards, when they too followed
the example of their comrades, fired and retreated with several wounded.

    
      

Turner pursued and overtook some of them and their complete slaughter
was only prevented by the timely arrival of a party of whites approaching
in another direction from Jerusalem.

Being baffled, Nat Turner with a party of twenty men determined to
cross the Nottaway river at the Cypress Bridge and attack Jerusalem
where he expected to procure additional arms and ammunition from the
rear.

After trying in vain to collect a sufficient force to proceed to
Jerusalem, the insurgents turned down toward his rendezvous and reached
major Thomas Ridley's, where forty assembled.

He placed out sentinels and lay back to sleep, but there was to be
no sleep that night.

An attack on his forces was at hand, and the embarrassment which ensued left
him with one half, but Turner, determined to recruit his forces, was proceeding
in his effort to rally new adherents when the firing of a gun by Hark was the signal
for a fire in ambush and a retreat followed. After this Turner never saw
many of his men any more.

They had killed fifty-five whites but the tide had turned. Turner concealed
himself in the woods but was not dismayed, for by messenger he directed
his forces to rally at the point from which on the previous Sunday they
had started out on their bloody work; but the discovery of white men
riding around the place as though they were looking for some one
in hiding convinced him that he had been betrayed.

A reign of terror in Virginia. [5] Labor was paralyzed, plantations
abandoned, women and children were driven from home and crowded into
nooks and corners.

The sufferings of many of these refugees who spent night after night in the woods were intense. Retaliation
began. In a little more than one day 120 Negroes were killed. The newspapers of the times contained
from day to day indignant protests against the cruelties perpetrated.
One individual boasted that he himself had killed between ten and fifteen
Negroes. Volunteer whites rode in all directions visiting plantations.
Negroes were tortured to death, burned, maimed and subjected to nameless
atrocities.

Slaves who were distrusted were pointed up and if they endeavored to escape, they were ruthlessly
shot down. [6] the few individual instances will show the nature and extent
of this vengeance. There occurred other instances which strikingly
remind one of scenes before the civil War and during reconstruction.

He took passage in the stage coach, but the vehicle was intercepted. He then
fled to a friend's home but the house was broken open and he was
dragged forth.

The civil authorities informed of the affair refused to interfere. The Governor of the commonwealth
quickly called into service whatever forces were at his command. The lack of adequate munitions of war being
apparent, Commodore Warrington, in command of the Navy Yard in Gosport,
was induced to distribute a portion of the public arms under his control.

For this purpose the government ordered detachments of the Light Infantry from
the seventh and fifty-fourth Regiments and from the fourth Regiment of
cavalry and also from the fourth Light Artillery to take the field
under Brigadier general Eppes.

Two regiments in Brunswick and Greenville were also called into service under general William H. Brodnax
and continued in the field until the danger had passed. Further aid was afforded
by Commodore Eliott of the united States Navy by order of whom a detachment
of sailors from the Natchez was secured and assistance also from
Colonel House, the commanding officer at Fortress Monroe, who promptly
detached a part of his force to take the field under Lieutenant Colonel
worth.

[10] the revolt was subdued, soon, before these troops could be placed in action and about all they accomplished
thereafter was the terrifying of Negroes who had taken no part in the insurrection and the immolation
of others who were suspected. Sixty-one white persons were killed.
 Pore Katie, she
didn't eben hab a chance to kiss her baby 'fore it war buried. Ole Gundover's wife has been
dead thirty years, an' she didn't die a day too soon. An' my little baby has gone to glory,
an' is wingin' wid the angels an' a lookin' out for us. One ob de las' things ole Gundover's
wife did 'fore she died war to order a woman whipped 'cause she com'd to de field a little
late when her husband war sick, an' she had stopped to tend him. Dat mornin' she war taken
sick wid de fever, an' in a few days she war gone out like de snuff ob a candle. She lef' several
sons, an' I specs she would almos' turn ober in her grave ef she know'd she had ten culled
granchillen somewhar down in de lower kentry."

"Isn't it funny," said Robert, "how these white folks look down on colored people, an' then
mix up with them?"

"Marster war away when Miss 'Liza treated my Katie so mean, an' when I tole him 'bout it, he
war tearin' mad, an' went ober an' saw ole Gundover, an' foun' out he war hard up for money,
an' he bought Katie and brought her home to lib wid me, and we's been a libin in clover eber
sence. Marster Robert has been mighty good to me. He stood by me in my troubles, an' now his
trouble's come, I'm a gwine to stan' by him. I used to think Gundover's wife war jealous ob
my Katie. She war so much puttier. Gundover's wife couldn't tech my Katie wid a ten foot pole."

"But, Aunt Katie, you have had your trials," said Robert, now that Daniel had finished his
story; "don't you feel bitter towards these people who are fighting to keep you in slavery?"

Aunt Katie turned her face towards the speaker. It was a thoughtful, intelligent face, saintly
and calm. A face which expressed the idea of a soul which had been fearfully tempest tossed,
but had passed through suffering into peace. Very touching was the look of resignation and
hope which overspread her features as she replied, with the simple child-like faith which she
had learned in the darkest hour, "The Lord says, we must forgive." And with her that thought,
as coming from the lips of Divine Love, was enough to settle the whole question of forgiveness
of injuries and love to enemies.

"Well," said Thomas Anderson, turning to Uncle Daniel, "we can't count on yer to go wid us?"

"Boys," said Uncle Daniel, and there was grief in his voice, "I'se mighty glad you hab a chance
for your freedom; but, ez I tole yer, I promised Marse Robert I would stay, an' I mus' be as
good as my word. Don't you youngsters stay for an ole stager like me. I'm ole an' mos' worn
out. Freedom wouldn't do much for me, but I want you all to be as free as the birds; so, you
chillen, take your freedom when you kin get it."

"But, Uncle Dan'el, you won't say nothin' 'bout our going, will you?" said the youngest of
the company.

Uncle Daniel slowly arose. There was a mournful flash in his eye, a tremor of emotion in his
voice, as he said, "Look yere, boys, de boy dat axed dat question war a new comer on dis plantation,
but some ob you's bin here all ob your lives; did you eber know ob Uncle Dan'el gittin' any
ob you inter trouble?"

"No, no," exclaimed a chorus of voices, "but many's de time you've held off de blows wen de
oberseer got too mean, an' cruelized us too much, wen Marse Robert war away. An' wen he got
back, you made him settle de oberseer's hash."

"Well, boys," said Uncle Daniel, with an air of mournful dignity, "I'se de same Uncle Dan'el
I eber war. Ef any ob you wants to go, I habben't a word to say agin it. I specs dem Yankees
be all right, but I knows Marse Robert, an' I don't know dem, an' I ain't a gwine ter throw
away dirty water 'til I gits clean."

"Well, Uncle Ben," said Robert, addressing a stalwart man whose towering form and darkly flashing
eye told that slavery had failed to put the crouch in his shoulders or general abjectness into
his demeanor, "you will go with us, for sure, won't you?"

"Yes," spoke up Tom Anderson, "'cause de trader's done took your wife, an' got her for his'n now."

As Ben Tunnel looked at the speaker, a spasm of agony and anger darkened his face and distorted
his features, as if the blood of some strong race were stirring with sudden vigor through his
veins. He clutched his hands together, as if he were struggling with an invisible foe, and
for a moment he remained silent. Then suddenly raising his head, he exclaimed, "Boys, there's
not one of you loves freedom more than I do, but--"

"But what?" said Tom. "Do you think white folks is your bes' friends?"

"I'll think so when I lose my senses."

"Well, now, I don't belieb you're 'fraid, not de way I yeard you talkin' to de oberseer wen
he war threatnin' to hit your mudder. He saw you meant business, an' he let her alone. But,
what's to hinder you from gwine wid us?"

"My mother," he replied, in a low, firm voice. "That is the only thing that keeps me from going.
If it had not been for her, I would have gone long ago. She's all I've got, an' I'm all she's got."

It was touching to see the sorrow on the strong face, to detect the pathos and indignation
in his voice, as he said, "I used to love Mirandy as I love my life. I thought the sun rose
and set in her. I never saw a handsomer woman than she was. But she fooled me all over the
face and eyes, and took up with that hell-hound of a trader, Lukens; an' he gave her a chance
to live easy, to wear fine clothes, an' be waited on like a lady. I thought at first I would
go crazy, but my poor mammy did all she could to comfort me. She would tell me there were as
good fish in the sea as were ever caught out of it. Many a time I've laid my poor head on her
lap, when it seemed as if my brain was on fire and my heart was almost ready to burst. But
in course of time I got over the worst of it; an' Mirandy is the first an' last woman that
ever fooled me. But that dear old mammy of mine, I mean to stick by her as long as there is
a piece of her. I can't go over to the army an' leave her behind, for if I did, an' anything
should happen, I would never forgive myself."

"But couldn't you take her with you," said Robert, "the soldiers said we could bring our women."

"It isn't that. The Union army is several miles from here, an' my poor mammy is so skeery that,
if I were trying to get her away and any of them Secesh would overtake us, an' begin to question
us, she would get skeered almost to death, an' break down an' begin to cry, an' then the fat
would be in the fire. So, while I love freedom more than a child loves its mother's milk, I've
made up my mind to stay on the plantation. I wish, from the bottom of my heart, I could go.
But I can't take her along with me, an' I don't want to be free and leave her behind in slavery.
I was only five years old when my master and, as I believe, father, sold us both here to this
lower country, an' we've been here ever since. It's no use talking, I won't leave her to be
run over by everybody."

A few evenings after this interview, the Union soldiers entered the town of C----, and established
their headquarters near the home of Thomas Anderson.

Out of the little company, almost every one deserted to the Union army, leaving Uncle Daniel
faithful to his trust, and Ben Tunnel hushing his heart's deep aspirations for freedom in a
passionate devotion to his timid and affectionate mother.

CHAPTER IV.

ARRIVAL OF THE UNION ARMY.

A few evenings before the stampede of Robert and his friends to the army, and as he sat alone
in his room reading the latest news from the paper he had secreted, he heard a cautious tread
and a low tap at his window. He opened the door quietly and whispered:--

"Anything new, Tom?"

"Yes."

"What is it? Come in."

"Well, I'se done bin seen dem Yankees, an' dere ain't a bit of troof in dem stories I'se bin
yerin 'bout 'em."

"Where did you see 'em?"

"Down in de woods whar Marster tole us to hide. Yesterday ole Marse sent for me to come in
de settin'-room. An' what do you think? Instead ob makin' me stan' wid my hat in my han' while
he went froo a whole rigamarole, he axed me to sit down, an' he tole me he 'spected de Yankees
would want us to go inter de army, an' dey would put us in front whar we'd all git killed;
an' I tole him I didn't want to go, I didn't want to git all momached up. An' den he said we'd
better go down in de woods an' hide. Massa Tom and Frank said we'd better go as quick as eber
we could. Dey said dem Yankees would put us in dere wagons and make us haul like we war mules.
Marse Tom ain't libin' at de great house jis' now. He's keepin' bachellar's hall."

"Didn't he go to the battle?"

"No; he foun' a pore white man who war hard up for money, an' he got him to go."

"But, Tom, you didn't believe these stories about the Yankees. Tom and Frank can lie as fast
as horses can trot. They wanted to scare you, and keep you from going to the Union army."

"I knows dat now, but I didn't 'spect so den."

"Well, when did you see the soldiers? Where are they? And what did they say to you?"

"Dey's right down in Gundover's woods. An' de Gineral's got his headquarters almos' next door
to our house."

"That near? Oh, you don't say so!"

"Yes, I do. An', oh, golly, ain't I so glad! I jis' stole yere to told you all 'bout it. Yesterday
mornin' I war splittin' some wood to git my breakfas', an' I met one ob dem Yankee sogers.
Well, I war so skeered, my heart flew right up in my mouf, but I made my manners to him and
said, 'Good mornin', Massa.' He said, 'Good mornin'; but don't call me "massa."' Dat war de
fust white man I eber seed dat didn't want ter be called 'massa,' eben ef he war as pore as
Job's turkey. Den I begin to feel right sheepish, an' he axed me ef my marster war at home,
an' ef he war a Reb. I tole him he hadn't gone to de war, but he war Secesh all froo, inside
and outside. He war too ole to go to de war, but dat he war all de time gruntin' an' groanin',
an' I 'spected he'd grunt hisself to death."

"What did he say?"

"He said he specs he'll grunt worser dan dat fore dey get froo wid him. Den he axed me ef I
would hab some breakfas,' an' I said, 'No, t'ank you, sir.' 'An' I war jis' as hungry as a
dorg, but I war 'feared to eat. I war 'feared he war gwine to pizen me."

"Poison you! don't you know the Yankees are our best friends?"

"Well, ef dat's so, I'se mighty glad, cause de woods is full ob dem."

"Now, Tom, I thought you had cut your eye-teeth long enough not to let them Anderson boys fool
you. Tom, you must not think because a white man says a thing, it must be so, and that a colored
man's word is no account 'longside of his. Tom, if ever we get our freedom, we've got to learn
to trust each other and stick together if we would be a people. Somebody else can read the
papers as well as Marse Tom and Frank. My ole Miss knows I can read the papers, an' she never
tries to scare me with big whoppers 'bout the Yankees. She knows she can't catch ole birds
with chaff, so she is just as sweet as a peach to her Bobby. But as soon as I get a chance
I will play her a trick the devil never did."

"What's that?"

"I'll leave her. I ain't forgot how she sold my mother from me. Many a night I have cried myself
to sleep, thinking about her, and when I get free I mean to hunt her up."

"Well, I ain't tole you all. De gemman said he war 'cruiting for de army; dat Massa Linkum
hab set us all free, an' dat he wanted some more sogers to put down dem Secesh; dat we should
all hab our freedom, our wages, an' some kind ob money. I couldn't call it like he did."

"Bounty money," said Robert.

"Yes, dat's jis' what he called it, bounty money. An' I said dat I war in for dat, teeth and
toe-nails."

Robert Johnson's heart gave a great bound. Was that so? Had that army, with freedom emblazoned
on its banners, come at last to offer them deliverance if they would accept it? Was it a bright,
beautiful dream, or a blessed reality soon to be grasped by his willing hands? His heart grew
buoyant with hope; the lightness of his heart gave elasticity to his step and sent the blood
rejoicingly through his veins. Freedom was almost in his grasp, and the future was growing
rose-tinted and rainbow-hued. All the ties which bound him to his home were as ropes of sand,
now that freedom had come so near.

When the army was afar off, he had appeared to be light-hearted and content with his lot. If
asked if he desired his freedom, he would have answered, very naively, that he was eating his
white bread and believed in letting well enough alone; he had no intention of jumping from
the frying-pan into the fire. But in the depths of his soul the love of freedom was an all-absorbing
passion; only danger had taught him caution. He had heard of terrible vengeance being heaped
upon the heads of some who had sought their freedom and failed in the attempt. Robert knew
that he might abandon hope if he incurred the wrath of men whose overthrow was only a question
of time. It would have been madness and folly for him to have attempted an insurrection against
slavery, with the words of McClellan ringing in his ears: "If you rise I shall put you down
with an iron hand," and with the home guards ready to quench his aspirations for freedom with
bayonets and blood. What could a set of unarmed and undisciplined men do against the fearful
odds which beset their path?

Robert waited eagerly and hopefully his chance to join the Union army; and was ready and willing
to do anything required of him by which he could earn his freedom and prove his manhood. He
conducted his plans with the greatest secrecy. A few faithful and trusted friends stood ready
to desert with him when the Union army came within hailing distance. When it came, there was
a stampede to its ranks of men ready to serve in any capacity, to labor in the tents, fight
on the fields, or act as scouts. It was a strange sight to see these black men rallying around
the Stars and Stripes, when white men were trampling them under foot and riddling them with
bullets.

CHAPTER V.

THE RELEASE OF IOLA LEROY.

"Well, boys," said Robert to his trusted friends, as they gathered together at a meeting in
Gundover's woods, almost under the shadow of the Union army, "how many of you are ready to
join the army and fight for your freedom."

"All ob us."

"The soldiers," continued Robert, "are camped right at the edge of the town. The General has
his headquarters in the heart of the town, and one of the officers told me yesterday that the
President had set us all free, and that as many as wanted to join the army could come along
to the camp. So I thought, boys, that I would come and tell you. Now, you can take your bag
and baggage, and get out of here as soon as you choose."

"We'll be ready by daylight," said Tom. "It won't take me long to pack up," looking down at
his seedy clothes, with a laugh. "I specs ole Marse'll be real lonesome when I'm gone. An'
won't he be hoppin' mad when he finds I'm a goner? I specs he'll hate it like pizen."

"O, well," said Robert, "the best of friends must part. Don't let it grieve you."

"I'se gwine to take my wife an' chillen," said one of the company.

"I'se got nobody but myself," said Tom; "but dere's a mighty putty young gal dere at Marse
Tom's. I wish I could git her away. Dey tells me dey's been sellin' her all ober de kentry;
but dat she's a reg'lar spitfire; dey can't lead nor dribe her."

"Do you think she would go with us?" said Robert.

"I think she's jis' dying to go. Dey say dey can't do nuffin wid her. Marse Tom's got his match
dis time, and I'se glad ob it. I jis' glories in her spunk."

"How did she come there?"

"Oh, Marse bought her ob de trader to keep house for him. But ef you seed dem putty white han's
ob hern you'd never tink she kept her own house, let 'lone anybody else's."

"Do you think you can get her away?"

"I don't know; 'cause Marse Tom keeps her mighty close. My! but she's putty. Beautiful long
hair comes way down her back; putty blue eyes, an' jis' ez white ez anybody's in dis place.
I'd jis' wish you could see her yoresef. I heerd Marse Tom talkin' 'bout her las' night to
his brudder; tellin' him she war mighty airish, but he meant to break her in."

An angry curse rose to the lips of Robert, but he repressed it and muttered to himself, "Graceless
scamp, he ought to have his neck stretched." Then turning to Tom, said:--

"Get her, if you possibly can, but you must be mighty mum about it."

"Trus' me for dat," said Tom.

Tom was very anxious to get word to the beautiful but intractable girl who was held in durance
vile by her reckless and selfish master, who had tried in vain to drag her down to his own
low level of sin and shame. But all Tom's efforts were in vain. Finally he applied to the Commander
of the post, who immediately gave orders for her release. The next day Tom had the satisfaction
of knowing that Iola Leroy had been taken as a trembling dove from the gory vulture's nest
and given a place of security. She was taken immediately to the General's headquarters. The
General was much impressed by her modest demeanor, and surprised to see the refinement and
beauty she possessed. Could it be possible that this young and beautiful girl had been a chattel,
with no power to protect herself from the highest insults that lawless brutality could inflict
upon innocent and defenseless womanhood? Could he ever again glory in his American citizenship,
when any white man, no matter how coarse, cruel, or brutal, could buy or sell her for the basest
purposes? Was it not true that the cause of a hapless people had become entangled with the
lightnings of heaven, and dragged down retribution upon the land?

The field hospital was needing gentle, womanly ministrations, and Iola Leroy, released from
the hands of her tormentors, was given a place as nurse; a position to which she adapted herself
with a deep sense of relief. Tom was doubly gratified at the success of his endeavors, which
had resulted in the rescue of the beautiful young girl and the discomfiture of his young master
who, in the words of Tom, "was mad enough to bite his head off" (a rather difficult physical feat).

Iola, freed from her master's clutches, applied herself readily to her appointed tasks. The
beautiful, girlish face was full of tender earnestness. The fresh, young voice was strangely
sympathetic, as if some great sorrow had bound her heart in loving compassion to every sufferer
who needed her gentle ministrations.

Tom Anderson was a man of herculean strength and remarkable courage. But, on account of physical
defects, instead of enlisting as a soldier, he was forced to remain a servant, although he
felt as if every nerve in his right arm was tingling to strike a blow for freedom. He was well
versed in the lay of the country, having often driven his master's cotton to market when he
was a field hand. After he became a coachman, he had become acquainted with the different roads
and localities of the country. Besides, he had often accompanied his young masters on their
hunting and fishing expeditions. Although he could not fight in the army, he proved an invaluable
helper. When tents were to be pitched, none were more ready to help than he. When burdens were
to be borne, none were more willing to bend beneath them than Thomas Anderson. When the battle-field
was to be searched for the wounded and dying, no hand was more tender in its ministrations
of kindness than his. As a general factotum in the army, he was ever ready and willing to serve
anywhere and at any time, and to gather information from every possible source which could
be of any service to the Union army. As a Pagan might worship a distant star and wish to call
it his own, so he loved Iola. And he never thought he could do too much for the soldiers who
had rescued her and were bringing deliverance to his race.

"What do you think of Miss Iola?" Robert asked him one day, as they were talking together.

"I jis' think dat she's splendid. Las' week I had to take some of our pore boys to de hospital,
an' she war dere, lookin' sweet an' putty ez an angel, a nussin' dem pore boys, an' ez good
to one ez de oder. It looks to me ez ef dey ralely lob'd her shadder. She sits by 'em so patient,
an' writes 'em sech nice letters to der frens, an' yit she looks so heart-broke an' pitiful,
it jis' gits to me, an' makes me mos' ready to cry. I'm so glad dat Marse Tom had to gib her
up. He war too mean to eat good victuals."

"He ought," said Robert, "to be made to live on herrings' heads and cold potatoes. It makes
my blood boil just to think that he was going to have that lovely looking young girl whipped
for his devilment. He ought to be ashamed to hold up his head among respectable people."

"I tell you, Bob, de debil will neber git his own till he gits him. When I seed how he war
treating her I neber rested till I got her away. He buyed her, he said, for his housekeeper;
as many gals as dere war on de plantation, why didn't he git one ob dem to keep house, an'
not dat nice lookin' young lady? Her han's look ez ef she neber did a day's work in her life.
One day when he com'd down to breakfas,' he chucked her under de chin, an' tried to put his
arm roun' her waist. But she jis' frew it off like a chunk ob fire. She looked like a snake
had bit her. Her eyes fairly spit fire. Her face got red ez blood, an' den she turned so pale
I thought she war gwine to faint, but she didn't, an' I yered her say, 'I'll die fust.' I war
mad 'nough to stan' on my head. I could hab tore'd him all to pieces wen he said he'd hab her
whipped."

"Did he do it?"

"I don't know. But he's mean 'nough to do enythin'. Why, dey say she war sole seben times in
six weeks, 'cause she's so putty, but dat she war game to de las'."

"Well, Tom," said Robert, "getting that girl away was one of the best things you ever did in
your life."

"I think so, too. Not dat I specs enytin' ob it. I don't spose she would think ob an ugly chap
like me; but it does me good to know dat Marse Tom ain't got her."

CHAPTER VI.

ROBERT JOHNSON'S PROMOTION AND RELIGION.

Robert Johnson, being able to meet the army requirements, was enlisted as a substitute to help
fill out the quota of a Northern regiment. With his intelligence, courage, and prompt obedience,
he rose from the ranks and became lieutenant of a colored company. He was daring, without being
rash; prompt, but not thoughtless; firm, without being harsh. Kind and devoted to the company
he drilled, he soon won the respect of his superior officers and the love of his comrades.

"Johnson," said a young officer, Captain Sybil, of Maine, who had become attached to Robert,
"what is the use of your saying you're a colored man, when you are as white as I am, and as
brave a man as there is among us. Why not quit this company, and take your place in the army
just the same as a white man? I know your chances for promotion would be better."

"Captain, you may doubt my word, but to-day I would rather be a lieutenant in my company than
a captain in yours."

"I don't understand you."

"Well, Captain, when a man's been colored all his life it comes a little hard for him to get
white all at once. Were I to try it, I would feel like a cat in a strange garret. Captain,
I think my place is where I am most needed. You do not need me in your ranks, and my company
does. They are excellent fighters, but they need a leader. To silence a battery, to capture
a flag, to take a fortification, they will rush into the jaws of death."

"Yes, I have often wondered at their bravery."

"Captain, these battles put them on their mettle. They have been so long taught that they are
nothing and nobody, that they seem glad to prove they are something and somebody."

"But, Johnson, you do not look like them, you do not talk like them. It is a burning shame
to have held such a man as you in slavery."

"I don't think it was any worse to have held me in slavery than the blackest man in the South."

"You are right, Johnson. The color of a man's skin has nothing to do with the possession of
his rights."

"Now, there is Tom Anderson," said Robert, "he is just as black as black can be. He has been
bought and sold like a beast, and yet there is not a braver man in all the company. I know
him well. He is a noble-hearted fellow. True as steel. I love him like a brother. And I believe
Tom would risk his life for me any day. He don't know anything about his father or mother.
He was sold from them before he could remember. He can read a little. He used to take lessons
from a white gardener in Virginia. He would go between the hours of 9 P.M. and 4 A.M. He got
a book of his own, tore it up, greased the pages, and hid them in his hat. Then if his master
had ever knocked his hat off he would have thought them greasy papers, and not that Tom was
carrying his library on his head. I had another friend who lived near us. When he was nineteen
years old he did not know how many letters there were in the ABC's. One night, when his work
was done, his boss came into his cabin and saw him with a book in his hand. He threatened to
give him five hundred lashes if he caught him again with a book, and said he hadn't work enough
to do. He was getting out logs, and his task was ten logs a day. His employer threatened to
increase it to twelve. He said it just harassed him; it set him on fire. He thought there must
be something good in that book if the white man didn't want him to learn. One day he had an
errand in the kitchen, and he heard one of the colored girls going over the ABC's. Here was
the key to the forbidden knowledge. She had heard the white children saying them, and picked
them up by heart, but did not know them by sight. He was not content with that, but sold his
cap for a book and wore a cloth on his head instead. He got the sounds of the letters by heart,
then cut off the bark of a tree, carved the letters on the smooth inside, and learned them.
He wanted to learn how to write. He had charge of a warehouse where he had a chance to see
the size and form of letters. He made the beach of the river his copybook, and thus he learned
to write. Tom never got very far with his learning, but I used to get the papers and tell him
all I knew about the war."

"How did you get the papers?"

"I used to have very good privileges for a slave. All of our owners were not alike. Some of
them were quite clever, and others were worse than git out. I used to get the morning papers
to sell to the boarders and others, and when I got them I would contrive to hide a paper, and
let some of the fellow-servants know how things were going on. And our owners thought we cared
nothing about what was going on."

"How was that? I thought you were not allowed to hold meetings unless a white man were present."

"That was so. But we contrived to hold secret meetings in spite of their caution. We knew whom
we could trust. My ole Miss wasn't mean like some of them. She never wanted the patrollers
around prowling in our cabins, and poking their noses into our business. Her husband was an
awful drunkard. He ran through every cent he could lay his hands on, and she was forced to
do something to keep the wolf from the door, so she set up a boarding-house. But she didn't
take in Tom, Dick, and Harry. Nobody but the big bugs stopped with her. She taught me to read
and write, and to cast up accounts. It was so handy for her to have some one who could figure
up her accounts, and read or write a note, if she were from home and wanted the like done.
She once told her cousin how I could write and figure up. And what do you think her cousin said?"

"'Pleased,' I suppose, 'to hear it.'"

"Not a bit of it. She said, if I belonged to her, she would cut off my thumbs; her husband
said, 'Oh, then he couldn't pick cotton.' As to my poor thumbs, it did not seem to be taken
into account what it would cost me to lose them. My ole Miss used to have a lot of books. She
would let me read any one of them except a novel. She wanted to take care of my soul, but she
wasn't taking care of her own."

"Wasn't she religious?"

"She went for it. I suppose she was as good as most of them. She said her prayers and went
to church, but I don't know that that made her any better. I never did take much stock in white
folks' religion."

"Why, Robert, I'm afraid you are something of an infidel."

"No, Captain, I believe in the real, genuine religion. I ain't got much myself, but I respect
them that have. We had on our place a dear, old saint, named Aunt Kizzy. She was a happy soul.
She had seen hard times, but was what I call a living epistle. I've heard her tell how her
only child had been sold from her, when the man who bought herself did not want to buy her
child. Poor little fellow! he was only two years old. I asked her one day how she felt when
her child was taken away. 'I felt,' she said, 'as if I was going to my grave. But I knew if
I couldn't get justice here, I could get it in another world.'"

"That was faith," said Captain Sybil, as if speaking to himself, "a patient waiting for death
to redress the wrongs of life."

"Many a time," continued Robert, "have I heard her humming to herself in the kitchen and saying,
'I has my trials, ups and downs, but it won't allers be so. I specs one day to wing and wing
wid de angels, Hallelujah! Den I specs to hear a voice sayin', "Poor ole Kizzy, she's done
de bes' she kin. Go down, Gabriel, an' tote her in." Den I specs to put on my golden slippers,
my long white robe, an' my starry crown, an' walk dem golden streets, Hallelujah!' I've known
that dear, old soul to travel going on two miles, after her work was done, to have some one
read to her. Her favorite chapter began with, 'Let not your heart be troubled, ye believe in
God, believe also in Me.'"

"I have been deeply impressed," said Captain Sybil, "with the child-like faith of some of these
people. I do not mean to say that they are consistent Christians, but I do think that this
faith has in a measure underlain the life of the race. It has been a golden thread woven amid
the sombre tissues of their lives. A ray of light shimmering amid the gloom of their condition.
And what would they have been without it?"

"I don't know. But I know what she was with it. And I believe if there are any saints in glory,
Aunt Kizzy is one of them."

"She is dead, then?"

"Yes, went all right, singing and rejoicing until the last, 'Troubles over, troubles over,
and den my troubles will be over. We'll walk de golden streets all 'roun' in de New Jerusalem.'
Now, Captain, that's the kind of religion that I want. Not that kind which could ride to church
on Sundays, and talk so solemn with the minister about heaven and good things, then come home
and light down on the servants like a thousand of bricks. I have no use for it. I don't believe
in it. I never did and I never will. If any man wants to save my soul he ain't got to beat
my body. That ain't the kind of religion I'm looking for. I ain't got a bit of use for it.
Now, Captain, ain't I right?"

"Well, yes, Robert, I think you are more than half right. You ought to know my dear, old mother
who lives in Maine. We have had colored company at our house, and I never saw her show the
least difference between her colored and white guests. She is a Quaker preacher, and don't
believe in war, but when the rest of the young men went to the front, I wanted to go also.
So I thought it all over, and there seemed to be no way out of slavery except through the war.
I had been taught to hate war and detest slavery. Now the time had come when I could not help
the war, but I could strike a blow for freedom. So I told my mother I was going to the front,
that I expected to be killed, but I went to free the slave. It went hard with her. But I thought
that I ought to come, and I believe my mother's prayers are following me."

"Captain," said Robert, rising, "I am glad that I have heard your story. I think that some
of these Northern soldiers do two things--hate slavery and hate niggers."

"I am afraid that is so with some of them. They would rather be whipped by Rebels than conquer
with negroes. Oh, I heard a soldier," said Captain Sybil, "say, when the colored men were being
enlisted, that he would break his sword and resign. But he didn't do either. After Colonel
Shaw led his charge at Fort Wagner, and died in the conflict, he got bravely over his prejudices.
The conduct of the colored troops there and elsewhere has done much to turn public opinion
in their favor. I suppose any white soldier would rather have his black substitute receive
the bullets than himself."

CHAPTER VII.

TOM ANDERSON'S DEATH.

"Where is Tom?" asked Captain Sybil; "I have not seen him for several hours."

"He's gone down the sound with some of the soldiers," replied Robert. "They wanted Tom to row
them."

"I am afraid those boys will get into trouble, and the Rebs will pick them off," responded Sybil.

"O, I hope not," answered Robert.

"I hope not, too; but those boys are too venturesome."

"Tom knows the lay of the land better than any of us," said Robert. "He is the most wide-awake
and gamiest man I know. I reckon when the war is over Tom will be a preacher. Did you ever
hear him pray?"

"No; is he good at that?"

"First-rate," continued Robert. "It would do you good to hear him. He don't allow any cursing
and swearing when he's around. And what he says is law and gospel with the boys. But he's so
good-natured; and they can't get mad at him."

"Yes, Robert, there is not a man in our regiment I would sooner trust than Tom. Last night,
when he brought in that wounded scout, he couldn't have been more tender if he had been a woman.
How gratefully the poor fellow looked in Tom's face as he laid him down so carefully and staunched
the blood which had been spurting out of him. Tom seemed to know it was an artery which had
been cut, and he did just the right thing to stop the bleeding. He knew there wasn't a moment
to be lost. He wasn't going to wait for the doctor. I have often heard that colored people
are ungrateful, but I don't think Tom's worst enemy would say that about him."

"Captain," said Robert, with a tone of bitterness in his voice, "what had we to be grateful
for? For ages of poverty, ignorance, and slavery? I think if anybody should be grateful, it
is the people who have enslaved us and lived off our labor for generations. Captain, I used
to know a poor old woman who couldn't bear to hear any one play on the piano."

"Is that so? Why, I always heard that colored people were a musical race."

"So we are; but that poor woman's daughter was sold, and her mistress took the money to buy
a piano. Her mother could never bear to hear a sound from it."

"Poor woman!" exclaimed Captain Sybil, sympathetically; "I suppose it seemed as if the wail
of her daughter was blending with the tones of the instrument. I think, Robert, there is a
great deal more in the colored people than we give them credit for. Did you know Captain Sellers?"

"The officer who escaped from prison and got back to our lines?" asked Robert.

"Yes. Well, he had quite an experience in trying to escape. He came to an aged couple, who
hid him in their cabin and shared their humble food with him. They gave him some corn-bread,
bacon, and coffee which he thought was made of scorched bran. But he said that he never ate
a meal that he relished more than the one he took with them. Just before he went they knelt
down and prayed with him. It seemed as if his very hair stood on his head, their prayer was
so solemn. As he was going away the man took some shingles and nailed them on his shoes to
throw the bloodhounds off his track. I don't think he will ever cease to feel kindly towards
colored people. I do wonder what has become of the boys? What can keep them so long?"

Just as Captain Sybil and Robert were wondering at the delay of Tom and the soldiers they heard
the measured tread of men who were slowly bearing a burden. They were carrying Tom Anderson
to the hospital, fearfully wounded, and nigh to death. His face was distorted, and the blood
was streaming from his wounds. His respiration was faint, his pulse hurried, as if life were
trembling on its frailest cords.

Robert and Captain Sybil hastened at once towards the wounded man. On Robert's face was a look
of intense anguish, as he bent pityingly over his friend.

"O, this is dreadful! How did it happen?" cried Robert.

Captain Sybil, pressing anxiously forward, repeated Robert's question.

"Captain," said one of the young soldiers, advancing and saluting his superior officer, "we
were all in the boat when it struck against a mud bank, and there was not strength enough among
us to shove her back into the water. Just then the Rebels opened fire upon us. For awhile we
lay down in the boat, but still they kept firing. Tom took in the whole situation, and said:
'Someone must die to get us out of this. I mought's well be him as any. You are soldiers and
can fight. If they kill me, it is nuthin'.' So Tom leaped out to shove the boat into the water.
Just then the Rebel bullets began to rain around him. He received seven or eight of them, and
I'm afraid there is no hope for him."

"O, Tom, I wish you hadn't gone. O, Tom! Tom!" cried Robert, in tones of agony.

A gleam of grateful recognition passed over the drawn features of Tom, as the wail of his friend
fell on his ear. He attempted to speak, but the words died upon his lips, and he became unconscious.

"Well," said Captain Sybil, "put him in one of the best wards. Give him into Miss Leroy's care.
If good nursing can win him back to life, he shall not want for any care or pains that she
can bestow. Send immediately for Dr. Gresham."

Robert followed his friend into the hospital, tenderly and carefully helped to lay him down,
and remained awhile, gazing in silent grief upon the sufferer. Then he turned to go, leaving
him in the hands of Iola, but hoping against hope that his wounds would not be fatal.

With tender devotion Iola watched her faithful friend. He recognized her when restored to consciousness,
and her presence was as balm to his wounds. He smiled faintly, took her hand in his, stroked
it tenderly, looked wistfully into her face, and said, "Miss Iola, I ain't long fer dis! I'se
'most home!"

"Oh, no," said Iola, "I hope that you will soon get over this trouble, and live many long and
happy days."

"No, Miss Iola, it's all ober wid me. I'se gwine to glory; gwine to glory; gwine to ring dem
charmin' bells. Tell all de boys to meet me in heben; dat dey mus' 'list in de hebenly war."

"O, Mr. Tom," said Iola, tenderly, "do not talk of leaving me. You are the best friend I have
had since I was torn from my mother. I should be so lonely without you."

"Dere's a frien' dat sticks closer dan a brudder. He will be wid yer in de sixt' trial, an'
in de sebbent' he'll not fo'sake yer."

"Yes," answered Iola, "I know that. He is all our dependence. But I can't help grieving when
I see you suffering so. But, dear friend, be quiet, and try to go to sleep."

"I'll do enythin' fer yer, Miss Iola."

Tom closed his eyes and lay quiet. Tenderly and anxiously Iola watched over him as the hours
waned away. The doctor came, shook his head gravely, and, turning to Iola, said, "There is
no hope, but do what you can to alleviate his sufferings."

As Iola gazed upon the kind but homely features of Tom, she saw his eyes open and an unexpressed
desire upon his face.

Tenderly and sadly bending over him, with tears in her dark, luminous eyes, she said, "Is there
anything I can do for you?"

"Yes," said Tom, with laboring breath; "let me hole yore han', an' sing 'Ober Jordan inter
glory' an' 'We'll anchor bye and bye.'"

Iola laid her hand gently in the rough palm of the dying man, and, with a tremulous voice,
sang the parting hymns.

Tenderly she wiped the death damps from his dusky brow, and imprinted upon it a farewell kiss.
Gratitude and affection lit up the dying eye, which seemed to be gazing into the eternities.
Just then Robert entered the room, and, seating himself quietly by Tom's bedside, read the
death signs in his face.

"Good-bye, Robert," said Tom, "meet me in de kingdom." Suddenly a look of recognition and rapture
lit up his face, and he murmured, "Angels, bright angels, all's well, all's well!"

Slowly his hand released its pressure, a peaceful calm overspread his countenance, and without
a sigh or murmur Thomas Anderson, Iola's faithful and devoted friend, passed away, leaving
the world so much poorer for her than it was before. Just then Dr. Gresham, the hospital physician,
came to the bedside, felt for the pulse which would never throb again, and sat down in silence
by the cot.

"What do you think, Doctor," said Iola, "has he fainted?"

"No," said the doctor, "poor fellow! he is dead."

Iola bowed her head in silent sorrow, and then relieved the anguish of her heart by a flood
of tears. Robert rose, and sorrowfully left the room.

Iola, with tearful eyes and aching heart, clasped the cold hands over the still breast, closed
the waxen lid over the eye which had once beamed with kindness or flashed with courage, and
then went back, after the burial, to her daily round of duties, feeling the sad missing of
something from her life.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MYSTIFIED DOCTOR.

"Colonel," said Dr. Gresham to Col. Robinson, the commander of the post, "I am perfectly mystified
by Miss Leroy."

"What is the matter with her?" asked Col. Robinson. "Is she not faithful to her duties and
obedient to your directions?"

"Faithful is not the word to express her tireless energy and devotion to her work," responded
Dr. Gresham. "She must have been a born nurse to put such enthusiasm into her work."

"Why, Doctor, what is the matter with you? You talk like a lover."

A faint flush rose to the cheek of Dr. Gresham as he smiled, and said, "Oh! come now, Colonel,
can't a man praise a woman without being in love with her?"

"Of course he can," said Col. Robinson; "but I know where such admiration is apt to lead. I've
been there myself. But, Doctor, had you not better defer your love-making till you're out of
the woods?"

"I assure you, Colonel, I am not thinking of love or courtship. That is the business of the
drawing-room, and not of the camp. But she did mystify me last night."

"How so?" asked Col. Robinson.

"When Tom was dying," responded the doctor, "I saw that beautiful and refined young lady bend
over and kiss him. When she found that he was dead, she just cried as if her heart was breaking.
Well, that was a new thing to me. I can eat with colored people, walk, talk, and fight with
them, but kissing them is something I don't hanker after."

"And yet you saw Miss Leroy do it?"

"Yes; and that puzzles me. She is one of the most refined and lady-like women I ever saw. I
hear she is a refugee, but she does not look like the other refugees who have come to our camp.
Her accent is slightly Southern, but her manner is Northern. She is self-respecting without
being supercilious; quiet, without being dull. Her voice is low and sweet, yet at times there
are tones of such passionate tenderness in it that you would think some great sorrow has darkened
and overshadowed her life. Without being the least gloomy, her face at times is pervaded by
an air of inexpressible sadness. I sometimes watch her when she is not aware that I am looking
at her, and it seems as if a whole volume was depicted on her countenance. When she smiles,
there is a longing in her eyes which is never satisfied. I cannot understand how a Southern
lady, whose education and manners stamp her as a woman of fine culture and good breeding, could
consent to occupy the position she so faithfully holds. It is a mystery I cannot solve. Can you?"

"I think I can," answered Col. Robinson.

"Will you tell me?" queried the doctor.

"Yes, on one condition."

"What is it?"

"Everlasting silence."

"I promise," said the doctor. "The secret between us shall be as deep as the sea."

"She has not requested secrecy, but at present, for her sake, I do not wish the secret revealed.
Miss Leroy was a slave."

"Oh, no," said Dr. Gresham, starting to his feet, "it can't be so! A woman as white as she
a slave?"

"Yes, it is so," continued the Colonel. "In these States the child follows the condition of
its mother. This beautiful and accomplished girl was held by one of the worst Rebels in town.
Tom told me of it and I issued orders for her release."

"Well, well! Is that so?" said Dr. Gresham, thoughtfully stroking his beard. "Wonders will
never cease. Why, I was just beginning to think seriously of her."

"What's to hinder your continuing to think?" asked Col. Robinson.

"What you tell me changes the whole complexion of affairs," replied the doctor.

"If that be so I am glad I told you before you got head over heels in love."

"Yes," said Dr. Gresham, absently.

Dr. Gresham was a member of a wealthy and aristocratic family, proud of its lineage, which
it could trace through generations of good blood to its ancestral isle. He had become deeply
interested in Iola before he had heard her story, but after it had been revealed to him he
tried to banish her from his mind; but his constant observation of her only increased his interest
and admiration. The deep pathos of her story, the tenderness of her ministrations, bestowed
alike on black and white, and the sad loneliness of her condition, awakened within him a desire
to defend and protect her all through her future life. The fierce clashing of war had not taken
all the romance out of his nature. In Iola he saw realized his ideal of the woman whom he was
willing to marry. A woman, tender, strong, and courageous, and rescued only by the strong arm
of his Government from a fate worse than death. She was young in years, but old in sorrow;
one whom a sad destiny had changed from a light-hearted girl to a heroic woman. As he observed
her, he detected an undertone of sorrow in her most cheerful words, and observed a quick flushing
and sudden paling of her cheek, as if she were living over scenes that were thrilling her soul
with indignation or chilling her heart with horror. As nurse and physician, Iola and Dr. Gresham
were constantly thrown together. His friends sent him magazines and books, which he gladly
shared with her. The hospital was a sad place. Mangled forms, stricken down in the flush of
their prime and energy; pale young corpses, sacrificed on the altar of slavery, constantly
drained on her sympathies. Dr. Gresham was glad to have some reading matter which might divert
her mind from the memories of her mournful past, and also furnish them both with interesting
themes of conversation in their moments of relaxation from the harrowing scenes through which
they were constantly passing. Without any effort or consciousness on her part, his friendship
ripened into love. To him her presence was a pleasure, her absence a privation; and her loneliness
drew deeply upon his sympathy. He would have merited his own self-contempt if, by word or deed,
he had done anything to take advantage of her situation. All the manhood and chivalry of his
nature rose in her behalf, and, after carefully revolving the matter, he resolved to win her
for his bride, bury her secret in his Northern home, and hide from his aristocratic relations
all knowledge of her mournful past. One day he said to Iola:--

"This hospital life is telling on you. Your strength is failing, and although you possess a
wonderful amount of physical endurance, you must not forget that saints have bodies and dwell
in tabernacles of clay, just the same as we common mortals."

"Compliments aside," she said, smiling; "what are you driving at, Doctor?"

"I mean," he replied, "that you are running down, and if you do not quit and take some rest
you will be our patient instead of our nurse. You'd better take a furlough, go North, and return
after the first frost."

"Doctor, if that is your only remedy," replied Iola, "I am afraid that I am destined to die
at my post. I have no special friends in the North, and no home but this in the South. I am
homeless and alone."

There was something so sad, almost despairing in her tones, in the drooping of her head, and
the quivering of her lip, that they stirred Dr. Gresham's heart with sudden pity, and, drawing
nearer to her, he said, "Miss Leroy, you need not be all alone. Let me claim the privilege
of making your life bright and happy. Iola, I have loved you ever since I have seen your devotion
to our poor, sick boys. How faithfully you, a young and gracious girl, have stood at your post
and performed your duties. And now I ask, will you not permit me to clasp hands with you for
life? I do not ask for a hasty reply. Give yourself time to think over what I have proposed."

CHAPTER IX.

EUGENE LEROY AND ALFRED LORRAINE.

Nearly twenty years before the war, two young men, of French and Spanish descent, sat conversing
on a large verandah which surrounded an ancient home on the Mississippi River. It was French
in its style of architecture, large and rambling, with no hint of modern improvements.

The owner of the house was the only heir of a Creole planter. He had come into possession of
an inheritance consisting of vast baronial estates, bank stock, and a large number of slaves.
Eugene Leroy, being deprived of his parents, was left, at an early age, to the care of a distant
relative, who had sent him to school and college, and who occasionally invited him to spend
his vacations at his home. But Eugene generally declined his invitations, as he preferred spending
his vacations at the watering places in the North, with their fashionable and not always innocent
gayeties. Young, vivacious, impulsive, and undisciplined, without the restraining influence
of a mother's love or the guidance of a father's hand, Leroy found himself, when his college
days were over, in the dangerous position of a young man with vast possessions, abundant leisure,
unsettled principles, and uncontrolled desires. He had no other object than to extract from
life its most seductive draughts of ease and pleasure. His companion, who sat opposite him
on the verandah, quietly smoking a cigar, was a remote cousin, a few years older than himself,
the warmth of whose Southern temperament had been modified by an infusion of Northern blood.

Eugene was careless, liberal, and impatient of details, while his companion and cousin, Alfred
Lorraine, was selfish, eager, keen, and alert; also hard, cold, methodical, and ever ready
to grasp the main chance. Yet, notwithstanding the difference between them, they had formed
a warm friendship for each other.

"Alfred," said Eugene, "I am going to be married."

Lorraine opened his eyes with sudden wonder, and exclaimed: "Well, that's the latest thing
out! Who is the fortunate lady who has bound you with her silken fetters? Is it one of those
beautiful Creole girls who were visiting Augustine's plantation last winter? I watched you
during our visit there and thought that you could not be proof against their attractions. Which
is your choice? It would puzzle me to judge between the two. They had splendid eyes, dark,
luminous, and languishing; lovely complexions and magnificent hair. Both were delightful in
their manners, refined and cultured, with an air of vivacity mingled with their repose of manner
which was perfectly charming. As the law only allows us one, which is your choice? Miss Annette
has more force than her sister, and if I could afford the luxury of a wife she would be my choice."

"Ah, Alf," said Eugene, "I see that you are a practical business man. In marrying you want
a wife to assist you as an efficient plantation mistress. One who would tolerate no waste in
the kitchen and no disorder in the parlor."

"Exactly so," responded Lorraine; "I am too poor to marry a mere parlor ornament. You can afford
to do it; I cannot."

"Nonsense, if I were as poor as a church mouse I would marry the woman I love."

"Very fine sentiments," said Lorraine, "and were I as rich as you I would indulge in them also.
You know, when my father died I had great expectations. We had always lived in good style,
and I never thought for a moment he was not a rich man, but when his estate was settled I found
it was greatly involved, and I was forced to face an uncertain future, with scarcely a dollar
to call my own. Land, negroes, cattle, and horses all went under the hammer. The only thing
I retained was the education I received at the North; that was my father's best investment,
and all my stock in trade. With that only as an outfit, it would be madness for me to think
of marrying one of those lovely girls. They remind me of beautiful canary birds, charming and
pretty, but not fitted for the wear and tear of plantation life. Well, which is your choice?"

"Neither," replied Eugene.

"Then, is it that magnificent looking widow from New Orleans, whom we met before you had that
terrible spell of sickness and to whom you appeared so devoted?"

"Not at all. I have not heard from her since that summer. She was fascinating and handsome,
but fearfully high strung."

"Were you afraid of her?"

"No; but I valued my happiness too much to trust it in her hands."

"Sour grapes!" said Lorraine.

"No! but I think that slavery and the lack of outside interests are beginning to tell on the
lives of our women. They lean too much on their slaves, have too much irresponsible power in
their hands, are narrowed and compressed by the routine of plantation life and the lack of
intellectual stimulus."

"Yes, Eugene, when I see what other women are doing in the fields of literature and art, I
cannot help thinking an amount of brain power has been held in check among us. Yet I cannot
abide those Northern women, with their suffrage views and abolition cant. They just shock me."

"But your mother was a Northern woman," said Eugene.

"Yes; but she got bravely over her Northern ideas. As I remember her, she was just as much
a Southerner as if she had been to the manor born. She came here as a school-teacher, but soon
after she came she married my father. He was easy and indulgent with his servants, and held
them with a very loose rein. But my mother was firm and energetic. She made the niggers move
around. No shirking nor dawdling with her. When my father died, she took matters in hand, but
she only outlived him a few months. If she had lived I believe that she would have retrieved
our fortune. I know that she had more executive ability than my father. He was very squeamish
about selling his servants, but she would have put every one of them in her pocket before permitting
them to eat her out of house and home. But whom are you going to marry?"

"A young lady who graduates from a Northern seminary next week," responded Eugene.

"I think you are very selfish," said Lorraine. "You might have invited a fellow to go with
you to be your best man."

"The wedding is to be strictly private. The lady whom I am to marry has negro blood in her veins."

"The devil she has!" exclaimed Lorraine, starting to his feet, and looking incredulously on
the face of Leroy. "Are you in earnest? Surely you must be jesting."

"I am certainly in earnest," answered Eugene Leroy. "I mean every word I say."

"Oh, it can't be possible! Are you mad?" exclaimed Lorraine.

"Never was saner in my life."

"What under heaven could have possessed you to do such a foolish thing? Where did she come from."

"Right here, on this plantation. But I have educated and manumitted her, and I intend marrying
her."

"Why, Eugene, it is impossible that you can have an idea of marrying one of your slaves. Why,
man, she is your property, to have and to hold to all intents and purposes. Are you not satisfied
with the power and possession the law gives you?"

"No. Although the law makes her helpless in my hands, to me her defenselessness is her best
defense."

"Eugene, we have known each other all of our lives, and, although I have always regarded you
as eccentric, I never saw you so completely off your balance before. The idea of you, with
your proud family name, your vast wealth in land and negroes, intending to marry one of them,
is a mystery I cannot solve. Do explain to me why you are going to take this extremely strange
and foolish step."

"You never saw Marie?"

"No; and I don't want to."

"She is very beautiful. In the North no one would suspect that she has one drop of negro blood
in her veins, but here, where I am known, to marry her is to lose caste. I could live with
her, and not incur much if any social opprobrium. Society would wink at the transgression,
even if after she had become the mother of my children I should cast her off and send her and
them to the auction block."

"Men," replied Lorraine, "would merely shrug their shoulders; women would say you had been
sowing your wild oats. Your money, like charity, would cover a multitude of faults."

"But if I make her my lawful wife and recognize her children as my legitimate heirs, I subject
myself to social ostracism and a senseless persecution. We Americans boast of freedom, and
yet here is a woman whom I love as I never loved any other human being, but both law and public
opinion debar me from following the inclination of my heart. She is beautiful, faithful, and
pure, and yet all that society will tolerate is what I would scorn to do."

"But has not society the right to guard the purity of its blood by the rigid exclusion of an
alien race?"

"Excluding it! How?" asked Eugene.

"By debarring it from social intercourse."

"Perhaps it has," continued Eugene, "but should not society have a greater ban for those who,
by consorting with an alien race, rob their offspring of a right to their names and to an inheritance
in their property, and who fix their social status among an enslaved and outcast race? Don't
eye me so curiously; I am not losing my senses."

"I think you have done that already," said Lorraine. "Don't you know that if she is as fair
as a lily, beautiful as a houri, and chaste as ice, that still she is a negro?"

"Oh, come now; she isn't much of a negro."

"It doesn't matter, however. One drop of negro blood in her veins curses all the rest."

"I know it," said Eugene, sadly, "but I have weighed the consequences, and am prepared to take
them."

"Well, Eugene, your course is so singular! I do wish that you would tell me why you take this
unprecedented step?"

Eugene laid aside his cigar, looked thoughtfully at Lorraine, and said, "Well, Alfred, as we
are kinsmen and life-long friends, I will not resent your asking my reason for doing that which
seems to you the climax of absurdity, and if you will have the patience to listen I will tell you."

"Proceed, I am all attention."

"My father died," said Eugene, "as you know, when I was too young to know his loss or feel
his care and, being an only child, I was petted and spoiled. I grew up to be wayward, self-indulgent,
proud, and imperious. I went from home and made many friends both at college and in foreign
lands. I was well supplied with money and, never having been forced to earn it, was ignorant
of its value and careless of its use. My lavish expenditures and liberal benefactions attracted
to me a number of parasites, and men older than myself led me into the paths of vice, and taught
me how to gather the flowers of sin which blossom around the borders of hell. In a word, I
left my home unwarned and unarmed against the seductions of vice. I returned an initiated devotee
to debasing pleasures. Years of my life were passed in foreign lands; years in which my soul
slumbered and seemed pervaded with a moral paralysis; years, the memory of which fills my soul
with sorrow and shame. I went to the capitals of the old world to see life, but in seeing life
I became acquainted with death, the death of true manliness and self-respect. You look astonished;
but I tell you, Alf, there is many a poor clod-hopper, on whom are the dust and grime of unremitting
toil, who feels more self-respect and true manliness than many of us with our family prestige,
social position, and proud ancestral halls. After I had lived abroad for years, I returned
a broken-down young man, prematurely old, my constitution a perfect wreck. A life of folly
and dissipation was telling fearfully upon me. My friends shrank from me in dismay. I was sick
nigh unto death, and had it not been for Marie's care I am certain that I should have died.
She followed me down to the borders of the grave, and won me back to life and health. I was
slow in recovering and, during the time, I had ample space for reflection, and the past unrolled
itself before me. I resolved, over the wreck and ruin of my past life, to build a better and
brighter future. Marie had a voice of remarkable sweetness, although it lacked culture. Often
when I was nervous and restless I would have her sing some of those weird and plaintive melodies
which she had learned from the plantation negroes. Sometimes I encouraged her to talk, and
I was surprised at the native vigor of her intellect. By degrees I became acquainted with her
history. She was all alone in the world. She had no recollection of her father, but remembered
being torn from her mother while clinging to her dress. The trader who bought her mother did
not wish to buy her. She remembered having a brother, with whom she used to play, but she had
been separated from him also, and since then had lost all trace of them. After she was sold
from her mother she became the property of an excellent old lady, who seems to have been very
careful to imbue her mind with good principles; a woman who loved purity, not only for her
own daughters, but also for the defenseless girls in her home. I believe it was the lady's
intention to have freed Marie at her death, but she died suddenly, and, the estate being involved,
she was sold with it and fell into the hands of my agent. I became deeply interested in her
when I heard her story, and began to pity her."

"And I suppose love sprang from pity."

"I not only pitied her, but I learned to respect her. I had met with beautiful women in the
halls of wealth and fashion, both at home and abroad, but there was something in her different
from all my experience of womanhood."

"I should think so," said Lorraine, with a sneer; "but I should like to know what it was."

"It was something such as I have seen in old cathedrals, lighting up the beauty of a saintly
face. A light which the poet tells was never seen on land or sea. I thought of this beautiful
and defenseless girl adrift in the power of a reckless man, who, with all the advantages of
wealth and education, had trailed his manhood in the dust, and she, with simple, childlike
faith in the Unseen, seemed to be so good and pure that she commanded my respect and won my
heart. In her presence every base and unholy passion died, subdued by the supremacy of her virtue."

"Why, Eugene, what has come over you? Talking of the virtue of these quadroon girls! You have
lived so long in the North and abroad, that you seem to have lost the cue of our Southern life.
Don't you know that these beautiful girls have been the curse of our homes? You have no idea
of the hearts which are wrung by their presence."

"But, Alfred, suppose it is so. Are they to blame for it? What can any woman do when she is
placed in the hands of an irresponsible master; when she knows that resistance is vain? Yes,
Alfred, I agree with you, these women are the bane of our Southern civilization; but they are
the victims and we are the criminals."

"I think from the airs that some of them put on when they get a chance, that they are very
willing victims."

"So much the worse for our institution. If it is cruel to debase a hapless victim, it is an
increase of cruelty to make her contented with her degradation. Let me tell you, Alf, you cannot
wrong or degrade a woman without wronging or degrading yourself."

"What is the matter with you, Eugene? Are you thinking of taking priest's orders?"

"No, Alf," said Eugene, rising and rapidly pacing the floor, "you may defend the system as
much as you please, but you cannot deny that the circumstances it creates, and the temptations
it affords, are sapping our strength and undermining our character."

"That may be true," said Lorraine, somewhat irritably, "but you had better be careful how you
air your Northern notions in public."

"Why so?"

"Because public opinion is too sensitive to tolerate any such discussions."

"And is not that a proof that we are at fault with respect to our institutions?"

"I don't know. I only know we are living in the midst of a magazine of powder, and it is not
safe to enter it with a lighted candle."

"Let me proceed with my story," continued Eugene. "During the long months in which I was convalescing,
I was left almost entirely to the companionship of Marie. In my library I found a Bible, which
I began to read from curiosity, but my curiosity deepened into interest when I saw the rapt
expression on Marie's face. I saw in it a loving response to sentiments to which I was a stranger.
In the meantime my conscience was awakened, and I scorned to take advantage of her defenselessness.
I felt that I owed my life to her faithful care, and I resolved to take her North, manumit,
educate, and marry her. I sent her to a Northern academy, but as soon as some of the pupils
found that she was colored, objections were raised, and the principal was compelled to dismiss
her. During my search for a school I heard of one where three girls of mixed blood were pursuing
their studies, every one of whom would have been ignominiously dismissed had their connection
with the negro race been known. But I determined to run no risks. I found a school where her
connection with the negro race would be no bar to her advancement. She graduates next week,
and I intend to marry her before I return home. She was faithful when others were faithless,
stood by me when others deserted me to die in loneliness and neglect, and now I am about to
reward her care with all the love and devotion it is in my power to bestow. That is why I am
about to marry my faithful and devoted nurse, who snatched me from the jaws of death. Now that
I have told you my story, what say you?"

"Madness and folly inconceivable!" exclaimed Lorraine.

"What to you is madness and folly is perfect sanity with me. After all, Alf, is there not an
amount of unreason in our prejudices?"

"That may be true; but I wasn't reasoned into it, and I do not expect to be reasoned out of it."

"Will you accompany me North?"

"No; except to put you in an insane asylum. You are the greatest crank out," said Lorraine,
thoroughly disgusted.

"No, thank you; I'm all right. I expect to start North to-morrow. You had better come and go."

"I would rather follow you to your grave," replied Lorraine, hotly, while an expression of
ineffable scorn passed over his cold, proud face.

CHAPTER X.

SHADOWS IN THE HOME.

On the next morning after this conversation Leroy left for the North, to attend the commencement
and witness the graduation of his ward. Arriving in Ohio, he immediately repaired to the academy
and inquired for the principal. He was shown into the reception-room, and in a few moments
the principal entered.

"Good morning," said Leroy, rising and advancing towards him; "how is my ward this morning?"

"She is well, and has been expecting you. I am glad you came in time for the commencement.
She stands among the foremost in her class."

"I am glad to hear it. Will you send her this?" said Leroy, handing the principal a card. The
principal took the card and immediately left the room.

Very soon Leroy heard a light step, and looking up he saw a radiantly beautiful woman approaching
him.

"Good morning, Marie," he said, greeting her cordially, and gazing upon her with unfeigned
admiration. "You are looking very handsome this morning."

"Do you think so?" she asked, smiling and blushing. "I am glad you are not disappointed; that
you do not feel your money has been spent in vain."

"Oh, no, what I have spent on your education has been the best investment I ever made."

"I hope," said Marie, "you may always find it so. But Mas----"

"Hush!" said Leroy, laying his hand playfully on her lips; "you are free. I don't want the
dialect of slavery to linger on your lips. You must not call me that name again."

"Why not?"

"Because I have a nearer and dearer one by which I wish to be called."

Leroy drew her nearer, and whispered in her ear a single word. She started, trembled with emotion,
grew pale, and blushed painfully. An awkward silence ensued, when Leroy, pressing her hand,
exclaimed: "This is the hand that plucked me from the grave, and I am going to retain it as
mine; mine to guard with my care until death us do part."

Leroy looked earnestly into her eyes, which fell beneath his ardent gaze. With admirable self-control,
while a great joy was thrilling her heart, she bowed her beautiful head and softly repeated,
"Until death us do part."

Leroy knew Southern society too well to expect it to condone his offense against its social
customs, or give the least recognition to his wife, however cultured, refined, and charming
she might be, if it were known that she had the least infusion of negro blood in her veins.
But he was brave enough to face the consequences of his alliance, and marry the woman who was
the choice of his heart, and on whom his affections were centred.

After Leroy had left the room, Marie sat awhile thinking of the wonderful change that had come
over her. Instead of being a lonely slave girl, with the fatal dower of beauty, liable to be
bought and sold, exchanged, and bartered, she was to be the wife of a wealthy planter; a man
in whose honor she could confide, and on whose love she could lean.

Very interesting and pleasant were the commencement exercises in which Marie bore an important
part. To enlist sympathy for her enslaved race, and appear to advantage before Leroy, had aroused
all of her energies. The stimulus of hope, the manly love which was environing her life, brightened
her eye and lit up the wonderful beauty of her countenance. During her stay in the North she
had constantly been brought in contact with anti-slavery people. She was not aware that there
was so much kindness among the white people of the country until she had tested it in the North.
From the anti-slavery people in private life she had learned some of the noblest lessons of
freedom and justice, and had become imbued with their sentiments. Her theme was "American Civilization,
its Lights and Shadows."

Graphically she portrayed the lights, faithfully she showed the shadows of our American civilization.
Earnestly and feelingly she spoke of the blind Sampson in our land, who might yet shake the
pillars of our great Commonwealth. Leroy listened attentively. At times a shadow of annoyance
would overspread his face, but it was soon lost in the admiration her earnestness and zeal
inspired. Like Esther pleading for the lives of her people in the Oriental courts of a despotic
king, she stood before the audience, pleading for those whose lips were sealed, but whose condition
appealed to the mercy and justice of the Nation. Strong men wiped the moisture from their eyes,
and women's hearts throbbed in unison with the strong, brave words that were uttered in behalf
of freedom for all and chains for none. Generous applause was freely bestowed, and beautiful
bouquets were showered upon her. When it was known that she was to be the wife of her guardian,
warm congratulations were given, and earnest hopes expressed for the welfare of the lonely
girl, who, nearly all her life, had been deprived of a parent's love and care. On the eve of
starting South Leroy procured a license, and united his destiny with the young lady whose devotion
in the darkest hour had won his love and gratitude.

In a few days Marie returned as mistress to the plantation from which she had gone as a slave.
But as unholy alliances were common in those days between masters and slaves, no one took especial
notice that Marie shared Leroy's life as mistress of his home, and that the family silver and
jewelry were in her possession. But Leroy, happy in his choice, attended to the interests of
his plantation, and found companionship in his books and in the society of his wife. A few
male companions visited him occasionally, admired the magnificent beauty of his wife, shook
their heads, and spoke of him as being very eccentric, but thought his marriage the great mistake
of his life. But none of his female friends ever entered his doors, when it became known that
Marie held the position of mistress of his mansion, and presided at his table. But she, sheltered
in the warm clasp of loving arms, found her life like a joyous dream.

Into that quiet and beautiful home three children were born, unconscious of the doom suspended
over their heads.

"Oh, how glad I am," Marie would often say, "that these children are free. I could never understand
how a cultured white man could have his own children enslaved. I can understand how savages,
fighting with each other, could doom their vanquished foes to slavery, but it has always been
a puzzle to me how a civilized man could drag his own children, bone of his bone, flesh of
his flesh, down to the position of social outcasts, abject slaves, and political pariahs."

"But, Marie," said Eugene, "all men do not treat their illegitimate children in the manner
you describe. The last time I was in New Orleans I met Henri Augustine at the depot, with two
beautiful young girls. At first I thought that they were his own children, they resembled him
so closely. But afterwards I noticed that they addressed him as 'Mister.' Before we parted
he told me that his wife had taken such a dislike to their mother that she could not bear to
see them on the place. At last, weary of her dissatisfaction, he had promised to bring them
to New Orleans and sell them. Instead, he was going to Ohio to give them their freedom, and
make provision for their future."

"What a wrong!" said Marie.

"Who was wronged?" said Leroy, in astonishment.

"Every one in the whole transaction," answered Marie. "Your friend wronged himself by sinning
against his own soul. He wronged his wife by arousing her hatred and jealousy through his unfaithfulness.
He wronged those children by giving them the status of slaves and outcasts. He wronged their
mother by imposing upon her the burdens and cares of maternity without the rights and privileges
of a wife. He made her crown of motherhood a circlet of shame. Under other circumstances she
might have been an honored wife and happy mother. And I do think such men wrong their own legitimate
children by transmitting to them a weakened moral fibre."

"Oh, Marie, you have such an uncomfortable way of putting things. You make me feel that we
have done those things which we ought not to have done, and have left undone those things which
we ought to have done."

"If it annoys you," said Marie, "I will stop talking."

"Oh, no, go on," said Leroy, carelessly; and then he continued more thoughtfully, "I know a
number of men who have sent such children North, and manumitted, educated, and left them valuable
legacies. We are all liable to err, and, having done wrong, all we can do is to make reparation."

"My dear husband, this is a wrong where reparation is impossible. Neither wealth nor education
can repair the wrong of a dishonored birth. There are a number of slaves in this section who
are servants to their own brothers and sisters; whose fathers have robbed them not simply of
liberty but of the right of being well born. Do you think these things will last forever?"

"I suppose not. There are some prophets of evil who tell us that the Union is going to dissolve.
But I know it would puzzle their brains to tell where the crack will begin. I reckon we'll
continue to jog along as usual. 'Cotton fights, and cotton conquers for American slavery.'"

Even while Leroy dreamed of safety the earthquake was cradling its fire; the ground was growing
hollow beneath his tread; but his ear was too dull to catch the sound; his vision too blurred
to read the signs of the times.

"Marie," said Leroy, taking up the thread of the discourse, "slavery is a sword that cuts both
ways. If it wrongs the negro, it also curses the white man. But we are in it, and what can we do?"

"Get out of it as quickly as possible."

"That is easier said than done. I would willingly free every slave on my plantation if I could
do so without expatriating them. Some of them have wives and children on other plantations,
and to free them is to separate them from their kith and kin. To let them remain here as a
free people is out of the question. My hands are tied by law and custom."

"Who tied them?" asked Marie.

"A public opinion, whose meshes I cannot break. If the negro is the thrall of his master, we
are just as much the thralls of public opinion."

"Why do you not battle against public opinion, if you think it is wrong?"

"Because I have neither the courage of a martyr, nor the faith of a saint; and so I drift along,
trying to make the condition of our slaves as comfortable as I possibly can. I believe there
are slaves on this plantation whom the most flattering offers of freedom would not entice away."

"I do not think," said Marie, "that some of you planters understand your own slaves. Lying
is said to be the vice of slaves. The more intelligent of them have so learned to veil their
feelings that you do not see the undercurrent of discontent beneath their apparent good humor
and jollity. The more discontented they are, the more I respect them. To me a contented slave
is an abject creature. I hope that I shall see the day when there will not be a slave in the
land. I hate the whole thing from the bottom of my heart."

"Marie, your Northern education has unfitted you for Southern life. You are free, yourself,
and so are our children. Why not let well enough alone?"

"Because I love liberty, not only for myself but for every human being. Think how dear these
children are to me; and then for the thought to be forever haunting me, that if you were dead
they could be turned out of doors and divided among your relatives. I sometimes lie awake at
night thinking of how there might be a screw loose somewhere, and, after all, the children
and I might be reduced to slavery."

"Marie, what in the world is the matter with you? Have you had a presentiment of my death,
or, as Uncle Jack says, 'hab you seed it in a vision?'"

"No, but I have had such sad forebodings that they almost set me wild. One night I dreamt that
you were dead; that the lawyers entered the house, seized our property, and remanded us to
slavery. I never can be satisfied in the South with such a possibility hanging over my head."

"Marie, dear, you are growing nervous. Your imagination is too active. You are left too much
alone on this plantation. I hope that for your own and the children's sake I will be enabled
to arrange our affairs so as to find a home for you where you will not be doomed to the social
isolation and ostracism that surround you here."

"I don't mind the isolation for myself, but the children. You have enjoined silence on me with
respect to their connection with the negro race, but I do not think we can conceal it from
them very long. It will not be long before Iola will notice the offishness of girls of her
own age, and the scornful glances which, even now, I think, are leveled at her. Yesterday Harry
came crying to me, and told me that one of the neighbor's boys had called him 'nigger.'"

A shadow flitted over Leroy's face, as he answered, somewhat soberly, "Oh, Marie, do not meet
trouble half way. I have manumitted you, and the children will follow your condition. I have
made you all legatees of my will. Except my cousin, Alfred Lorraine, I have only distant relatives,
whom I scarcely know and who hardly know me."

"Your cousin Lorraine? Are you sure our interests would be safe in his hands?"

"I think so; I don't think Alfred would do anything dishonorable."

"He might not with his equals. But how many men would be bound by a sense of honor where the
rights of a colored woman are in question? Your cousin was bitterly opposed to our marriage,
and I would not trust any important interests in his hands. I do hope that in providing for
our future you will make assurance doubly sure."

"I certainly will, and all that human foresight can do shall be done for you and our children."

"Oh," said Marie, pressing to her heart a beautiful child of six summers, "I think it would
almost make me turn over in my grave to know that every grace and charm which this child possesses
would only be so much added to her value as an article of merchandise."

As Marie released the child from her arms she looked wonderingly into her mother's face and
clung closely to her, as if to find refuge from some unseen evil. Leroy noticed this, and sighed
unconsciously, as an expression of pain flitted over his face.

"Now, Marie," he continued, "stop tormenting yourself with useless fears. Although, with all
her faults, I still love the South, I will make arrangements either to live North or go to
France. There life will be brighter for us all. Now, Marie, seat yourself at the piano and sing:--

    'Sing me the songs that to me were so dear,
            Long, long ago.
     Sing me the songs I delighted to hear,
            Long, long ago."

As Marie sang the anxiety faded from her face, a sense of security stole over her, and she
sat among her loved ones a happy wife and mother. What if no one recognized her on that lonely
plantation! Her world was, nevertheless, there. The love and devotion of her husband brightened
every avenue of her life, while her children filled her home with music, mirth, and sunshine.

Marie had undertaken their education, but she could not give them the culture which comes from
the attrition of thought, and from contact with the ideas of others. Since her school-days
she had read extensively and thought much, and in solitude her thoughts had ripened. But for
her children there were no companions except the young slaves of the plantation, and she dreaded
the effect of such intercourse upon their lives and characters.

Leroy had always been especially careful to conceal from his children the knowledge of their
connection with the negro race. To Marie this silence was oppressive.

One day she said to him, "I see no other way of finishing the education of these children than
by sending them to some Northern school."

"I have come," said Leroy, "to the same conclusion. We had better take Iola and Harry North
and make arrangements for them to spend several years in being educated. Riches take wings
to themselves and fly away, but a good education is an investment on which the law can place
no attachment. As there is a possibility of their origin being discovered, I will find a teacher
to whom I can confide our story, and upon whom I can enjoin secrecy. I want them well fitted
for any emergency in life. When I discover for what they have the most aptitude I will give
them especial training in that direction."

A troubled look passed over the face of Marie, as she hesitatingly said: "I am so afraid that
you will regret our marriage when you fully realize the complications it brings."

"No, no," said Leroy, tenderly, "it is not that I regret our marriage, or feel the least disdain
for our children on account of the blood in their veins; but I do not wish them to grow up
under the contracting influence of this race prejudice. I do not wish them to feel that they
have been born under a proscription from which no valor can redeem them, nor that any social
advancement or individual development can wipe off the ban which clings to them. No, Marie,
let them go North, learn all they can, aspire all they may. The painful knowledge will come
all too soon. Do not forestall it. I want them simply to grow up as other children; not being
patronized by friends nor disdained by foes."

"My dear husband, you may be perfectly right, but are you not preparing our children for a
fearful awakening? Are you not acting on the plan, 'After me the deluge?'"

"Not at all, Marie. I want our children to grow up without having their self-respect crushed
in the bud. You know that the North is not free from racial prejudice."

"I know it," said Marie, sadly, "and I think one of the great mistakes of our civilization
is that which makes color, and not character, a social test."

"I think so, too," said Leroy. "The strongest men and women of a down-trodden race may bare
their bosoms to an adverse fate and develop courage in the midst of opposition, but we have
no right to subject our children to such crucial tests before their characters are formed.
For years, when I lived abroad, I had an opportunity to see and hear of men of African descent
who had distinguished themselves and obtained a recognition in European circles, which they
never could have gained in this country. I now recall the name of Ira Aldridge, a colored man
from New York City, who was covered with princely honors as a successful tragedian. Alexander
Dumas was not forced to conceal his origin to succeed as a novelist. When I was in St. Petersburg
I was shown the works of Alexander Sergevitch, a Russian poet, who was spoken of as the Byron
of Russian literature, and reckoned one of the finest poets that Russia has produced in this
century. He was also a prominent figure in fashionable society, and yet he was of African lineage.
One of his paternal ancestors was a negro who had been ennobled by Peter the Great. I can't
help contrasting the recognition which these men had received with the treatment which has
been given to Frederick Douglass and other intelligent colored men in this country. With me
the wonder is not that they have achieved so little, but that they have accomplished so much.
No, Marie, we will have our children educated without being subjected to the depressing influences
of caste feeling. Perhaps by the time their education is finished I will be ready to wind up
my affairs and take them abroad, where merit and ability will give them entrance into the best
circles of art, literature, and science."

After this conversation Leroy and his wife went North, and succeeded in finding a good school
for their children. In a private interview he confided to the principal the story of the cross
in their blood, and, finding him apparently free from racial prejudice, he gladly left the
children in his care. Gracie, the youngest child, remained at home, and her mother spared no
pains to fit her for the seminary against the time her sister should have finished her education.

CHAPTER XI.

THE PLAGUE AND THE LAW.

Years passed, bringing no special change to the life of Leroy and his wife. Shut out from the
busy world, its social cares and anxieties, Marie's life flowed peacefully on. Although removed
by the protecting care of Leroy from the condition of servitude, she still retained a deep
sympathy for the enslaved, and was ever ready to devise plans to ameliorate their condition.

Leroy, although in the midst of slavery, did not believe in the rightfulness of the institution.
He was in favor of gradual emancipation, which would prepare both master and slave for a moral
adaptation to the new conditions of freedom. While he was willing to have the old rivets taken
out of slavery, politicians and planters were devising plans to put in new screws. He was desirous
of having it ended in the States; they were clamorous to have it established in the Territories.

But so strong was the force of habit, combined with the feebleness of his moral resistance
and the nature of his environment, that instead of being an athlete, armed for a glorious strife,
he had learned to drift where he should have steered, to float with the current instead of
nobly breasting the tide. He conducted his plantation with as much lenity as it was possible
to infuse into a system darkened with the shadow of a million crimes.

Leroy had always been especially careful not to allow his children to spend their vacations
at home. He and Marie generally spent that time with them at some summer resort.

"I would like," said Marie, one day, "to have our children spend their vacations at home. Those
summer resorts are pleasant, yet, after all, there is no place like home. But," and her voice
became tremulous, "our children would now notice their social isolation and inquire the cause."
A faint sigh arose to the lips of Leroy, as she added: "Man is a social being; I've known it
to my sorrow."

There was a tone of sadness in Leroy's voice, as he replied: "Yes, Marie, let them stay North.
We seem to be entering on a period fraught with great danger. I cannot help thinking and fearing
that we are on the eve of a civil war."

"A civil war!" exclaimed Marie, with an air of astonishment. "A civil war about what?"

"Why, Marie, the thing looks to me so wild and foolish I hardly know how to explain. But some
of our leading men have come to the conclusion that North and South had better separate, and
instead of having one to have two independent governments. The spirit of secession is rampant
in the land. I do not know what the result will be, and I fear it will bode no good to the
country. Between the fire-eating Southerners and the meddling Abolitionists we are about to
be plunged into a great deal of trouble. I fear there are breakers ahead. The South is dissatisfied
with the state of public opinion in the North. We are realizing that we are two peoples in
the midst of one nation. William H. Seward has proclaimed that the conflict between freedom
and slavery is irrepressible, and that the country cannot remain half free and half slave."

"How will you go?" asked Marie.

"My heart is with the Union. I don't believe in secession. There has been no cause sufficient
to justify a rupture. The North has met us time and again in the spirit of concession and compromise.
When we wanted the continuance of the African slave trade the North conceded that we should
have twenty years of slave-trading for the benefit of our plantations. When we wanted more
territory she conceded to our desires and gave us land enough to carve out four States, and
there yet remains enough for four more. When we wanted power to recapture our slaves when they
fled North for refuge, Daniel Webster told Northerners to conquer their prejudices, and they
gave us the whole Northern States as a hunting ground for our slaves. The Presidential chair
has been filled the greater number of years by Southerners, and the majority of offices has
been shared by our men. We wanted representation in Congress on a basis which would include
our slaves, and the North, whose suffrage represents only men, gave us a three-fifths representation
for our slaves, whom we count as property. I think the step will be suicidal. There are extremists
in both sections, but I hope, between them both, wise counsels and measures will prevail."

Just then Alfred Lorraine was ushered into the room. Occasionally he visited Leroy, but he
always came alone. His wife was the only daughter of an enterprising slave-trader, who had
left her a large amount of property.

Her social training was deficient, her education limited, but she was too proud of being a
pure white woman to enter the home of Leroy, with Marie as its presiding genius. Lorraine tolerated
Marie's presence as a necessary evil, while to her he always seemed like a presentiment of
trouble. With his coming a shadow fell upon her home, hushing its music and darkening its sunshine.
A sense of dread oppressed her. There came into her soul an intuitive feeling that somehow
his coming was fraught with danger. When not peering around she would often catch his eyes
bent on her with a baleful expression.

Leroy and his cousin immediately fell into a discussion on the condition of the country. Lorraine
was a rank Secessionist, ready to adopt the most extreme measures of the leaders of the movement,
even to the reopening of the slave trade. Leroy thought a dissolution of the Union would involve
a fearful expenditure of blood and treasure for which, before the eyes of the world, there
could be no justification. The debate lasted late into the night, leaving both Lorraine and
Leroy just as set in their opinions as they were before they began. Marie listened attentively
awhile, then excused herself and withdrew.

After Lorraine had gone Marie said: "There is something about your cousin that fills me with
nameless dread. I always feel when he enters the room as if some one were walking over my grave.
I do wish he would stay at home."

"I wish so, too, since he disturbs you. But, Marie, you are growing nervous. How cold your
hands are. Don't you feel well?"

"Oh, yes; I am only a little faint. I wish he would never come. But, as he does, I must make
the best of it."

"Yes, Marie, treat him well for my sake. He is the only relative I have who ever darkens our
doors."

"I have no faith in his friendship for either myself or my children. I feel that while he makes
himself agreeable to you he hates me from the bottom of his heart, and would do anything to
get me out of the way. Oh, I am so glad I am your lawful wife, and that you married me before
you brought me back to this State! I believe that if you were gone he wouldn't have the least
scruple against trying to prove our marriage invalid and remanding us to slavery."

Leroy looked anxiously and soberly at his wife, and said: "Marie, I do not think so. Your life
is too lonely here. Write your orders to New Orleans, get what you need for the journey, and
let us spend the summer somewhere in the North."

Just then Marie's attention was drawn to some household matters, and it was a short time before
she returned.

"Tom," continued Leroy, "has just brought the mail, and here is a letter from Iola."

Marie noticed that he looked quite sober as he read, and that an expression of vexation was
lingering on his lips.

"What is the matter?" asked Marie.

"Nothing much; only a tempest in a teapot. The presence of a colored girl in Mr. Galen's school
has caused a breeze of excitement. You know Mr. Galen is quite an Abolitionist, and, being
true to his principles, he could not consistently refuse when a colored woman applied for her
daughter's admission. Of course, when he took her he was compelled to treat her as any other
pupil. In so doing he has given mortal offense to the mother of two Southern boys. She has
threatened to take them away if the colored girl remains."

"What will he do about it?" asked Marie, thoughtfully.

"Oh, it is a bitter pill, but I think he will have to swallow it. He is between two fires.
He cannot dismiss her from the school and be true to his Abolition principles; yet if he retains
her he will lose his Southern customers, and I know he cannot afford to do that."

"What does Iola say?"

"He has found another boarding place for her, but she is to remain in the school. He had to
throw that sop to the whale."

"Does she take sides against the girl?"

"No, I don't think she does. She says she feels sorry for her, and that she would hate to be
colored. 'It is so hard to be looked down on for what one can't help.'"

"Poor child! I wish we could leave the country. I never would consent to her marrying any one
without first revealing to him her connection with the negro race. This is a subject on which
I am not willing to run any risks."

"My dear Marie, when you shall have read Iola's letter you will see it is more than a figment
of my imagination that has made me so loth to have our children know the paralyzing power of
caste."

Leroy, always liberal with his wife and children, spared neither pains nor expense to have
them prepared for their summer outing. Iola was to graduate in a few days. Harry was attending
a school in the State of Maine, and his father had written to him, apprising him of his intention
to come North that season. In a few days Leroy and his wife started North, but before they
reached Vicksburg they were met by the intelligence that the yellow fever was spreading in
the Delta, and that pestilence was breathing its bane upon the morning air and distilling its
poison upon the midnight dews.

"Let us return home," said Marie.

"It is useless," answered Leroy. "It is nearly two days since we left home. The fever is spreading
south of us with fearful rapidity. To return home is to walk into the jaws of death. It was
my intention to have stopped at Vicksburg, but now I will go on as soon as I can make the connections."

Early next morning Leroy and his wife started again on their journey. The cars were filled
with terror-stricken people who were fleeing from death, when death was everywhere. They fled
from the city only to meet the dreaded apparition in the country. As they journeyed on Leroy
grew restless and feverish. He tried to brace himself against the infection which was creeping
slowly but insidiously into his life, dulling his brain, fevering his blood, and prostrating
his strength. But vain were all his efforts. He had no armor strong enough to repel the invasion
of death. They stopped at a small town on the way and obtained the best medical skill and most
careful nursing, but neither skill nor art availed. On the third day death claimed Leroy as
a victim, and Marie wept in hopeless agony over the grave of her devoted husband, whose sad
lot it was to die from home and be buried among strangers.

But before he died he placed his will in Marie's hands, saying: "I have left you well provided
for. Kiss the children for me and bid them good-bye."

He tried to say a parting word to Gracie, but his voice failed, and he fainted into the stillness
of death. A mortal paleness overspread his countenance, on which had already gathered the shadows
that never deceive. In speechless agony Marie held his hand until it released its pressure
in death, and then she stood alone beside her dead, with all the bright sunshine of her life
fading into the shadows of the grave. Heart-broken and full of fearful forebodings, Marie left
her cherished dead in the quiet village of H---- and returned to her death-darkened home.

It was a lovely day in June, birds were singing their sweetest songs, flowers were breathing
their fragrance on the air, when Mam Liza, sitting at her cabin-door, talking with some of
the house servants, saw a carriage approaching, and wondered who was coming.

"I wonder," she said, excitedly, "whose comin' to de house when de folks is done gone."

But her surprise was soon changed to painful amazement, when she saw Marie, robed in black,
alighting from the carriage, and holding Gracie by the hand. She caught sight of the drooping
head and grief-stricken face, and rushed to her, exclaiming:--

"Whar's Marse Eugene?"

"Dead," said Marie, falling into Mammy Liza's arms, sobbing out, "dead!
 died of yellow fever."

A wild burst of sorrow came from the lips of the servants, who had drawn near.

"Where is he?" said Mam Liza, speaking like one suddenly bewildered.

"He is buried in H----. I could not bring him home," said Marie.

"My pore baby," said Mam Liza, with broken sobs. "I'se drefful sorry. My heart's most broke
into two." Then, controlling herself, she dismissed the servants who stood around, weeping,
and led Marie to her room.

"Come, honey, lie down an' lem'me git yer a cup ob tea."

"Oh, no; I don't want anything," said Marie, wringing her hands in bitter agony.

"Oh, honey," said Mam Liza, "yer musn't gib up. Yer knows whar to put yer trus'. Yer can't
lean on de arm of flesh in dis tryin' time." Kneeling by the side of her mistress she breathed
out a prayer full of tenderness, hope, and trust.

Marie grew calmer. It seemed as if that earnest, trustful prayer had breathed into her soul
a feeling of resignation.

Gracie stood wonderingly by, vainly trying to comprehend the great sorrow which was overwhelming
the life of her mother.

After the first great burst of sorrow was over, Marie sat down to her desk and wrote a letter
to Iola, informing her of her father's death. By the time she had finished it she grew dizzy
and faint, and fell into a swoon. Mammy Liza tenderly laid her on the bed, and helped restore
her to consciousness.

Lorraine, having heard of his cousin's death, came immediately to see Marie. She was too ill
to have an interview with him, but he picked up the letter she had written and obtained Iola's
address.

Lorraine made a careful investigation of the case, to ascertain whether Marie's marriage was
valid. To his delight he found there was a flaw in the marriage and an informality in the manumission.
He then determined to invalidate Marie's claim, and divide the inheritance among Leroy's white
relations. In a short time strangers, distant relatives of her husband, became frequent visitors
at the plantation, and made themselves offensively familiar. At length the dreadful storm burst.

Alfred Lorraine entered suit for his cousin's estate, and for the remanding of his wife and
children to slavery. In a short time he came armed with legal authority, and said to Marie:--

"I have come to take possession of these premises."

"By what authority?" she gasped, turning deathly pale. He hesitated a moment, as if his words
were arrested by a sense of shame.

"By what authority?" she again demanded.

"By the authority of the law," answered Lorraine, "which has decided that Leroy's legal heirs
are his white blood relations, and that your marriage is null and void."

"But," exclaimed Marie, "I have our marriage certificate. I was Leroy's lawful wife."

"Your marriage certificate is not worth the paper it is written on."

"Oh, you must be jesting, cruelly jesting. It can't be so."

"Yes; it is so. Judge Starkins has decided that your manumission is unlawful; your marriage
a bad precedent, and inimical to the welfare of society; and that you and your children are
remanded to slavery."

Marie stood as one petrified. She seemed a statue of fear and despair. She tried to speak,
reached out her hand as if she were groping in the dark, turned pale as death as if all the
blood in her veins had receded to her heart, and, with one heart-rending cry of bitter agony,
she fell senseless to the floor. Her servants, to whom she had been so kind in her days of
prosperity, bent pityingly over her, chafed her cold hands, and did what they could to restore
her to consciousness. For awhile she was stricken with brain fever, and her life seemed trembling
on its frailest cord.

Gracie was like one perfectly dazed. When not watching by her mother's bedside she wandered
aimlessly about the house, growing thinner day by day. A slow fever was consuming her life.
Faithfully and carefully Mammy Liza watched over her, and did all she could to bring smiles
to her lips and light to her fading eyes, but all in vain. No such thing; the old gentleman becomes a more ardent militarist
every day; wants to see once for all an end of all lawyer-politicians,
and all so-called "business-men."

"we have made a poor show of being civilians," is his point; "let's
try being soldiers for a generation or two." on the whole he thinks
we should find it easier to carry on as a british Empire in uniform
than as a german province in mufti.

He says that what's wrong with prussian Militarism is that it is
prussian; to succeed, the thing has to be run by gentlemen.

The car jumped the jack, went over the scotch, knocked me down, ran
over me, tore my clothes to rags, bruised me all over, tore my flesh
and broke my collar-bone, and i think i got off very lightly.

It is shrewdly conjectured that they are in the neighbourhood of the
Front.*** nothing in the course of his Balkan pilgrimage is reported
to have pleased the KAISER so much as a steamer-trip on the Danube.

It was looking so sympathetically
blue.*** the Government is going to close Museums and Picture-galleries
to the public.

No one shall accuse us of being Apostles of Culture.*** It is said
that the australian and new Zealand soldiers now in London are very
fond of visiting the british Museum, and take a particular interest
in the egyptian antiquities.

But it is not true that they now refer to England as "the Mummy Country."***
Austrians and Hungarians are said to be quarrelling as to whether
the occupied serbian territory should eventually belong to the Monarchy
or dread the Kingdom, and the jurists on either side are ransacking
the history of the past for arguments to support their respective
cases.

Here we have another instance of the fondness of learned men for disputing
about purely academic questions.

Serbia will belong to the Serbians.*** an American gentleman, who
started out to visit his wife when she was staying with her mother
and failed to find her after three days'search, excuses himself on
the ground that he had forgotten her maiden name.

He puts it down to absence of mind; and his mother-in-law is inclined to
agree with him.*** Soap is the latest article to be placed on the
list of absolute contraband; and it is now more certain than ever
that the Germans will not come out of the War with clean hands.***
in view of the impending paper-famine a widely-circulated journal
announces its readiness to receive back from the public any parcels
of old copies marked "waste paper." in the opinion of its trade-rivals
the inscription is superfluous.*** a suggestion has been made by a
Registrar of course that will not happen to me again.

"-- the Motor. He will either drink the Scotch first or not have one at all.********** the FAUNA of
the FRONT. Chief among the fauna of the Front is, of course, the
Bosch, a subterranean animal of unpleasant habits, which is now classed
as vermin.

He has been so just dealt with elsewhere that i shall leave him on
one side, and confine my few observations to smaller and pleasanter
creatures.

The remaining
fauna of the Front are (1) mice; (2) rats; with a few interesting extras, furred and feathered,
which deserve more serious treatment than i can give them. At home
the mouse is regarded with contemptuous annoyance as a petty but
persevering thief; while the rat commits his grosser depredations
in an atmosphere tinged with horror.

Out here it is different, for we are perforce neighbours.

Indeed, we bipeds are in a sense trespassers upon the domain of the subterranean peoples. At home
one seldom sees a rat or took from it-- no, Charles, not a gas helmet,
but a pair of socks-- and such socks too! yours ever, HENRY.**********
on BELLONA'S HEM.**********"

Mrs. Ruth Roberts, of Folkestone, celebrates the completion of her
103rd year to-day.

She is one of a family of twenty-two, and her father fought with
two of her sons at Waterloo.

"-- irish Times. She seems to have been very young for a mother when these family dissensions occurred.*****"
Will you allow me to give a warning to Ford owners who, like myself,
jack up to obtain an easy start.

A few days ago i was doing so as usual with only one scotch.

A top-man honoured our mess the other night. Under the mellowing influence
of our curried Bully he unbent somewhat and encouraged the ancient
on his pet subject.

Under the influence of the latter's theories he unbent still further.

He discoursed upon the true inwardness of the military method of
running an office, pausing at last for the ancient to say a few words.

"oh," said he, "i don't allow myself to be put off by a trifle like
that. There's many a kind heart behind a Buff slip, and we all have our
little weaknesses." the idea of having a little weakness was so novel
to the Top-man that it caused him to choke and to be led from the
mess, eventually, in a state of nervous exhaustion.

The latest information from the trenches goes to support the maxim that all one requires to wage
war is a bold face and a gas helmet.

A very distinguished O. C. Went up the other day to inspect the trenches
of his command and to express such views of their faults and the faults
of their inmates as might occur to him from time to time.

Well, not quite, perhaps.

We never saw a man begin a pipe at the wrong end.********** from an article by Mr. AUSTIN HARRISON
in the Sunday pictorial:-- "a few strange gentlemen attitudinise in
Westminster on principle, but these men would cut capers of principle
in any case, like Mr. Snodgrass when he went skating." or Mr. Winkle
when he wrote verses.***** "in the continental boat-trains the warning,'Licht
linauslehnen,'has not been removed from the windows.... occasionally
you see that'nicht linauslehnen'has been indignantly pasted over."--
provincial Paper.

The latter is certainly a little more german than the other.*****
after a description of the new lighting order:-- "the regulations
will impose a great deal of work on the police, and it is the duty
of the public to make it as light as possible."-- Hampshire Observer.

Lux, in fact, a non lucendo.***** a lonely LIFE.

"nothing but margarine has entered my door since the War began."-- Dr. C. W.
SALEEBY in "daily Chronicle."***** the WATCH DOGS. Xxxiv. My dear CHARLES,--
we're having a great time with our new arrival, one of those confounded
civilians, who are only let into the business because the business,
in these modern and highly complicated days, cannot be carried on
without them.

He's a jolly old Lieutenant of about fifty years; he has a concentrated
experience of the world but doesn't remember having been mixed up
in a big european war before.

At first I kept on telling him that business is one thing and war is another, but he wouldn't
see it and persisted in doing and saying and thinking things which were bound to land us in a
national disaster.

He had no respect whatever for the Pass memo., his central and sole
idea being to push along with the elimination of the Bosch.

When he wanted something done, he just went to the Top-man of the department,
called him "i say," and went straight to the point. The Top-man
had never been asked to do business this way before. He put up with it
a dozen times or so, but finally he had to take steps. So he wrote a note
on a Buff slip and addressed it, very rightly of course, to the Top-man
but one; and the top-man but one read it and passed it very carefully
to the Top-man but two; and so, with that inevitability which is the
hall-mark of the system, it was passed and passed and passed until
it came (in less than a week) to the office of the ancient Lieutenant
on the opposite side of the street.

And it ran: "Lieutenant so-and-so should be notified that it is neither
necessary nor desirable that he should call personally at this office
to transact his business.

Matters should be put forward by him through the usual course of correspondence."
the ancient Lieutenant, who wouldn't hurt anybody's feelings for the
world, felt that it was up to him to put the matter right. So he stepped
across to the Top-man's office, and when the Top-man asked him, somewhat
pointedly, if he had received his note, the ancient very genially
replied, "yes, thank you," and explained that he had just looked in
personally to acknowledge receipt of same.

Conceive his delight to discover a subaltern, fresh from ablutions,
with no satchel upon him! the subaltern, distinctly aware of this
amongst his many failings, was all for being passed by as insignificant;
the Commander was all for a scene.

Everybody halted, and the air became pregnant with possibilities.... It
was a nicely calculated speech, leading up gradually to the pointed
contrast between (a) overworked Commander, weighed down with responsibilities,
absorbed day and night in momentous matters of large principle, nevertheless
infallible on smallest detail and now in possession of gas helmet,
one, and (b) very junior subaltern, free to enjoy the open-air irresponsible
life of the trenches, yet neglecting even the few small matters entrusted
to him, without same.

"in Bankruptcy that the tercentenary of SHAKSPEARE'S death should
be celebrated by the performance in every large town of one of the
Bard's plays; and some regret has been expressed that anybody should
take advantage of a national celebration to boom his own business.***"'how
many of us realise that, were it not for America, the War to-day in
Europe, as fought, could not even exist?'"is the question put, according
to a new York correspondent," by Mr. Gutzon Borglum, the great american
sculptor.

"still the War has its compensations. But for its existence we might
never have heard of Mr. GUTZON BORGLUM, the great american sculptor.***
a correspondent, describing the recent food riots in Berlin, says
that they were chiefly due to" women who were fed up with the difficulty
of providing meals for their families.

"*** the following notice was found affixed to a building somewhere
near the Front:" SIR OFFICERS,-- ask the bathroom's key to the office.

The bathroom shall be wash by the servant after bath. Sir Officer without
servant shall not have the key. "it sounds rather abrupt.*** owing to
the Government demand that nothing in the way of unnecessary expenditure
should be allowed, it is expected that all paid lecturers on War Economy
and national Thrift will be given a week's notice.*** opposing a suggestion
of the Wandsworth Borough Council to discontinue the issue of fiction
from the free libraries, a member of the Women's Freedom League said
that a novel was to a woman what a pipe was to a man.

He had progressed some way up the communication trench, when it struck
him that, whereas his recent order had been particularly menacing
to everyone of whatever rank who was discovered there or thereabouts
without a gas helmet, nevertheless he himself was at that moment innocent
of such furniture.

Fortunately there came from the opposite direction an odds-and-end
private, with nothing in his favour except the wearing of the well-known
satchel so much in vogue in Flanders society for the carrying of gas
helmets.

That
was enough for the Commander; this was essentially one of those privates to
be called" my man, "and treated as such. Politely but firmly he was requested
to part with his satchel as a temporary loan to his General.

Firmly, if respectfully, he refused to comply.

Them was his orders. The Commander congratulated him on his very proper attitude, explained to him
the nature of the higher commands and demanded the satchel. The man
looked like being stony about it, but the Commander became irresistibly
commanding and got the satchel at last.

He buckled it on, and the party proceeded, characterising the reluctance
of the private to part with his treasure as almost an exaggerated
sense of obedience to printed orders.

Gas helmets always exercise a peculiar fascination for people who
inspect trenches, and the matter was now especially prominent in the
mind of the Commander as he marched along, outwardly appearing to
be at his happiest here, inwardly thanking goodness that his home
was elsewhere.

And what's more, Sir," he concluded, "i doubt very much whether,
if someone gave you a helmet now, you'd know what to do with it.

Here, take mine."

(the attendant Brass-hats liked the "mine," but very discreetly kept their emotions
to themselves.) it was not a peculiarly clean or remarkably well-packed
satchel which the trembling hand of the disgraced subaltern took
from the Commander, and the latter did not intend to let attention
dwell too long upon the grimy details of its exterior.

Fixing the steel eye of conscious rectitude on his victim, he leant
slightly towards him and very unmistakably shouted at him the one
dread word, "GAS!".... unfortunately for the Commander the subaltern
not only knew what to do next, but also had thoroughly the physical
strength remaining in his fingers to start doing it.

With the eyes of all upon him (and by this time there had gathered
round quite a nice little crowd, thoroughly conversant with the event
in progress), the subaltern opened the satchel alleged to belong to
the Commander and mouse save from above, and to look down upon anything
is invariably to misjudge it.

But here we share the hospitality of the underground and meet its
freehold tenants on a level. PUNCH, or the LONDON CHARIVARI. VOL. 150
February 2, 1916. CHARIVARIA. According to the Correspondent of the
daily Mail who described the festivities at Nish, the King of BULGARIA
"has a curious duck-like waddle." this is believed to be the result
of his effort to do the Goose-Step while avoiding the Turkey-Trot.***
owing to the extraction of benzol and toluol from gas for the purpose
of making high-explosives it is stated that consumers may have to
put up with some decrease in illuminating power.

It
is expected, in view of the good object involved, that the announcement
will be received in a spirit of toluoleration.*** we cannot agree
with the actor who complains that his manager forbids him to wear
his armlet on the stage.

The sympathies of the audience might be entirely deranged by the
discovery that the elderly villain was an attested patriot while the
young and beautiful hero was either ineligible or a slacker.*** describing
the depressed condition of the laundry trade a witness at the Clerkenwell
County Court said, "we are eight million double collars short every
week." it sounds as if a dreadful quarrel would be raging between
the ancient on one side and on the other the Top-man, the whole series
of under-top-men and all persons in any way representing the military
system.

You'd expect to hear that the ancient's conversation at mess is insubordinate,
rebellious, or at least bitterly sarcastic.

 Had father
no friends who would assist us?"

"None that I know of. I do not think he had an acquaintance who approved of our marriage. The
neighboring planters have stood so aloof from me that I do not know where to turn for either
help or sympathy. I believe it was Lorraine who sent the telegram. I wrote to you as soon as
I could after your father's death, but fainted just as I finished directing the letter. I do
not think he knows where your brother is, and, if possible, he must not know. If you can by
any means, do send a letter to Harry and warn him not to attempt to come home. I don't know
how you will succeed, for Lorraine has us all under surveillance. But it is according to law."

"What law, mother?"

"The law of the strong against the weak."

"Oh, mother, it seems like a dreadful dream, a fearful nightmare! But I cannot shake it off.
Where is Gracie?"

"The dear child has been running down ever since her papa's death. She clung to me night and
day while I had the brain fever, and could not be persuaded to leave me. She hardly ate anything
for more than a week. She has been dangerously ill for several days, and the doctor says she
cannot live. The fever has exhausted all her rallying power, and yet, dear as she is to me,
I would rather consign her to the deepest grave than see her forced to be a slave."

"So would I. I wish I could die myself."

"Oh, Iola, do not talk so. Strive to be a Christian, to have faith in the darkest hour. Were
it not for my hope of heaven I couldn't stand all this trouble."

"Mother, are these people Christians who made these laws which are robbing us of our inheritance
and reducing us to slavery? If this is Christianity I hate and despise it. Would the most cruel
heathen do worse?"

"My dear child, I have not learned my Christianity from them. I have learned it at the foot
of the cross, and from this book," she said, placing a New Testament in Iola's hands. "Some
of the most beautiful lessons of faith and trust I have ever learned were from among our lowly
people in their humble cabins."

"Mamma!" called a faint voice from the adjoining room. Marie immediately arose and went to
the bedside of her sick child, where Mammy Liza was holding her faithful vigils. The child
had just awakened from a fitful sleep.

"I thought," she said, "that I heard Iola's voice. Has she come?"

"Yes, darling; do you want to see her?"

"Oh, yes," she said, as a bright smile broke over her dying features.

Iola passed quickly into the room. Gracie reached out her thin, bloodless hand, clasped Iola's
palm in hers, and said: "I am so glad you have come. Dear Iola, stand by mother. You and Harry
are all she has. It is not hard to die. You and mother and Harry must meet me in heaven."

Swiftly the tidings went through the house that Gracie was dying. The servants gathered around
her with tearful eyes, as she bade them all good-bye. When she had finished, and Mammy had
lowered the pillow, an unwonted radiance lit up her eye, and an expression of ineffable gladness
overspread her face, as she murmured: "It is beautiful, so beautiful!" Fainter and fainter
grew her voice, until, without a struggle or sigh, she passed away beyond the power of oppression
and prejudice.

CHAPTER XIII.

A REJECTED SUITOR.

Very unexpected was Dr. Gresham's proposal to Iola. She had heartily enjoyed his society and
highly valued his friendship, but he had never been associated in her mind with either love
or marriage. As he held her hand in his a tell-tale flush rose to her cheek, a look of grateful
surprise beamed from her eye, but it was almost immediately succeeded by an air of inexpressible
sadness, a drooping of her eyelids, and an increasing pallor of her cheek. She withdrew her
hand from his, shook her head sadly, and said:--

"No, Doctor; that can never be. I am very grateful to you for your kindness. I value your friendship,
but neither gratitude nor friendship is love, and I have nothing more than those to give."

"Not at present," said Dr. Gresham; "but may I not hope your friendship will ripen into love?"

"Doctor, I could not promise. I do not think that I should. There are barriers between us that
I cannot pass. Were you to know them I think you would say the same."

Just then the ambulance brought in a wounded scout, and Iola found relief from the wounds of
her own heart in attending to his.

Dr. Gresham knew the barrier that lay between them. It was one which his love had surmounted.
But he was too noble and generous to take advantage of her loneliness to press his suit. He
had lived in a part of the country where he had scarcely ever seen a colored person, and around
the race their misfortunes had thrown a halo of romance. To him the negro was a picturesque
being, over whose woes he had wept when a child, and whose wrongs he was ready to redress when
a man. But when he saw the lovely girl who had been rescued by the commander of the post from
the clutches of slavery, all the manhood and chivalry in his nature arose in her behalf, and
he was ready to lay on the altar of her heart his first grand and overmastering love. Not discouraged
by her refusal, but determined to overcome her objections, Dr. Gresham resolved that he would
abide his time.

Iola was not indifferent to Dr. Gresham. She admired his manliness and respected his character.
He was tall and handsome, a fine specimen of the best brain and heart of New England. He had
been nurtured under grand and ennobling influences. His father was a devoted Abolitionist.
His mother was kind-hearted, but somewhat exclusive and aristocratic. She would have looked
upon his marriage with Iola as a mistake and feared that such an alliance would hurt the prospects
of her daughters.

During Iola's stay in the North, she had learned enough of the racial feeling to influence
her decision in reference to Dr. Gresham's offer. Iola, like other girls, had had her beautiful
day-dreams before she was rudely awakened by the fate which had dragged her into the depths
of slavery. In the chambers of her imagery were pictures of noble deeds; of high, heroic men,
knightly, tender, true, and brave. In Dr. Gresham she saw the ideal of her soul exemplified.
But in her lonely condition, with all its background of terrible sorrow and deep abasement,
she had never for a moment thought of giving or receiving love from one of that race who had
been so lately associated in her mind with horror, aversion, and disgust. His kindness to her
had been a new experience. His companionship was an unexpected pleasure. She had learned to
enjoy his presence and to miss him when absent, and when she began to question her heart she
found that unconsciously it was entwining around him.

"Yes," she said to herself, "I do like him; but I can never marry him. To the man I marry my
heart must be as open as the flowers to the sun. I could not accept his hand and hide from
him the secret of my birth; and I could not consent to choose the happiest lot on earth without
first finding my poor heart-stricken and desolate mother. Perhaps some day I may have the courage
to tell him my sad story, and then make my heart the sepulchre in which to bury all the love
which might have gladdened and brightened my whole life."

During the sad and weary months which ensued while the war dragged its slow length along, Dr.
Gresham and Iola often met by the bedsides of the wounded and dying, and sometimes he would
drop a few words at which her heart would beat quicker and her cheek flush more vividly. But
he was so kind, tender, and respectful, that Iola had no idea he knew her race affiliations.
She knew from unmistakable signs that Dr. Gresham had learned to love her, and that he had
power to call forth the warmest affection of her soul; but she fought with her own heart and
repressed its rising love. She felt that it was best for his sake that they should not marry.
When she saw the evidences of his increasing love she regretted that she had not informed him
at the first of the barrier that lay between them; it might have saved him unnecessary suffering.
Thinking thus, Iola resolved, at whatever cost of pain it might be to herself, to explain to
Dr. Gresham what she meant by the insurmountable barrier. Iola, after a continuous strain upon
her nervous system for months, began to suffer from general debility and nervous depression.
Dr. Gresham saw the increasing pallor on Iola's cheek and the loss of buoyancy in her step.
One morning, as she turned from the bed of a young soldier for whom she had just written a
letter to his mother, there was such a look of pity and sorrow on her face that Dr. Gresham's
whole heart went out in sympathy for her, and he resolved to break the silence he had imposed
upon himself.

"Iola," he said, and there was a depth of passionate tenderness in his voice, a volume of unexpressed
affection in his face, "you are wronging yourself. You are sinking beneath burdens too heavy
for you to bear. It seems to me that besides the constant drain upon your sympathies there
is some great sorrow preying upon your life; some burden that ought to be shared." He gazed
upon her so ardently that each cord of her heart seemed to vibrate, and unbidden tears sprang
to her lustrous eyes, as she said, sadly:--

"Doctor, you are right."

"Iola, my heart is longing to lift those burdens from your life. Love, like faith, laughs at
impossibilities. I can conceive of no barrier too high for my love to surmount. Consent to
be mine, as nothing else on earth is mine."

"Doctor, you know not what you ask," replied Iola. "Instead of coming into this hospital a
self-sacrificing woman, laying her every gift and advantage upon the altar of her country,
I came as a rescued slave, glad to find a refuge from a fate more cruel than death; a fate
from which I was rescued by the intervention of my dear dead friend, Thomas Anderson. I was
born on a lonely plantation on the Mississippi River, where the white population was very sparse.
We had no neighbors who ever visited us; no young white girls with whom I ever played in my
childhood; but, never having enjoyed such companionship, I was unconscious of any sense of
privation. Our parents spared no pains to make the lives of their children (we were three)
as bright and pleasant as they could. Our home was so happy. We had a large number of servants,
who were devoted to us. I never had the faintest suspicion that there was any wrongfulness
in slavery, and I never dreamed of the dreadful fate which broke in a storm of fearful anguish
over our devoted heads. Papa used to take us to New Orleans to see the Mardi Gras, and while
there we visited the theatres and other places of amusement and interest. At home we had books,
papers, and magazines to beguile our time. Perfectly ignorant of my racial connection, I was
sent to a Northern academy, and soon made many friends among my fellow-students. Companionship
with girls of my own age was a new experience, which I thoroughly enjoyed. I spent several
years in New England, and was busily preparing for my commencement exercises when my father
was snatched away--died of yellow fever on his way North to witness my graduation. Through
a stratagem, I was brought hurriedly from the North, and found that my father was dead; that
his nearest kinsman had taken possession of our property; that my mother's marriage had been
declared illegal, because of an imperceptible infusion of negro blood in her veins; and that
she and her children had been remanded to slavery. I was torn from my mother, sold as a slave,
and subjected to cruel indignities, from which I was rescued and a place given to me in this
hospital. Doctor, I did not choose my lot in life, but I have no other alternative than to
accept it. The intense horror and agony I felt when I was first told the story are over. Thoughts
and purposes have come to me in the shadow I should never have learned in the sunshine. I am
constantly rousing myself up to suffer and be strong. I intend, when this conflict is over,
to cast my lot with the freed people as a helper, teacher, and friend. I have passed through
a fiery ordeal, but this ministry of suffering will not be in vain. I feel that my mind has
matured beyond my years. I am a wonder to myself. It seems as if years had been compressed
into a few short months. In telling you this, do you not, can you not, see that there is an
insurmountable barrier between us?"

"No, I do not," replied Dr. Gresham. "I love you for your own sake. And with this the disadvantages
of birth have nothing to do."

"You say so now, and I believe that you are perfectly sincere. Today your friendship springs
from compassion, but, when that subsides, might you not look on me as an inferior?"

"Iola, you do not understand me. You think too meanly of me. Meditate on the transmutations of life. So, soul,
spread your spiritual wings and soar upward. Each soul's Ego is its maker and God. The God acts;
the soul alone watches.

All impressions on the skin shape the plastic wax, but go the deeper--
do not reach the soul.

You can separate a impressions from your real self, when calm and
alone, and look upon emotion as these surface play.

But faithfully the uranian seer can read the here mind, and so really know the possibilities of your spirit.
But see, o immortal soul, the intellectual, and no spiritual, or internal
plane; and thought-reading can be on one or all of these different
states.

He doffs the mantle of rags, and royal splendors clothe him. Know these
three things: Eternity is the creator of the universal life; universal
life creates the world, and the world is the creator of time.

Ix REFLECTION TABLET the ninth an unknown quantity, a hope of progression,
ideal love, and all true mental and spiritual ideals; aspiration to
become that which we feel to be noble and true; the symbol of the
monad, the soul which, receiving its life from the Sun-- the Ego--
is constantly revealing new forces and potencies of the God-life.

Behold the earthly miracle of the caterpillar and the butterfly,
of the toiling mortal and the transcendent God! he lifts the hood,
and behold the crown.

Would to God I could make all mankind realize this awful, inconceivable
privilege of life, that, Jupiter-like, they would turn and face the
light.

O child of Adam! "o child of Adam! TABLET the seventh Saturn SYMBOL the
human figure with a scepter of power, a being of light crowned with
flames.

PART ii deep beginneth Chapter 3 of the Second Part of the Book which
is called" the Tablets of Aeth, "wherein the third, and last, Trinity
of the planetary Rulers is inmost transliterate.

And of these, the Universe is Life, and that World is Mind, and Time
is the Soul.

Am i not thy beloved? for with us all, are three planes of mind:
the drift plane, the nominal Saturn, as the Angel of Life, having
from time gathered the experiences which crown him with light, holding
the rod of power; an Christ born in the manger of Capricorn, the Goat--
life born of death; the conqueror of evil.

He throws off the mask of age, and divine youth beams on us. Deity
progresses through its expressions of the cosmos.

Verbum sap. He drops the scythe of death for the jewel of eternal
life." "thou hast entered the immeasurable regions. I am the Dweller
of the Threshold. Watch the tempest of life closely. The Ego is like
the deific potency of the universe, unlimited in potential power,
but limited by its monad as to what will be evolved from its awful
depth of being.

Vii REFLECTION TABLET the seventh in the external we remember Saturn
as the old man, and as a skeleton with a scythe-- as Time, in fact.

He raises the crutch, and lo! the rod of power. They affect the soul, and go to the center of being.
That soul is not immortal that becomes separated from its Ego-- its
God.

Om Mani padme um. But the tragedies of life strike deep.

The Ego may sit calm amidst the storm, but, if that be stirred--
beware! viii REFLECTION TABLET the eighth the enjoyment of soul and
spirit-- penetration; a wonderful power of soul-perception, which
sheds its light on all visible things, receiving their images and
interpreting them into the spirit, the all-seer-- what does it not
convey? imagine an image of soft wax, covered with a sensitive skin.

TABLET the ninth Neptune a winged Globe. What wouldst thou with me?***
dost thou fear me?" (oh the jewel in the lotus.) o child of Adam! the Ego, your
God, finds progressive expression through you, through your soul.

The perception that can see only into your soul and see, as it were,
the yet unborn thought; that can distinguish the motive of action;
that judges the realities of your soul.

Such is the astral uranian.

TABLET the eighth Uranus SYMBOL a human eye, from which darts lightning
upon an ocean of matter.

O child of Adam!

"


"Doctor," she said, and a faint flush rose to her cheek, "suppose we should marry, and little
children in after years should nestle in our arms, and one of them show unmistakable signs
of color, would you be satisfied?"

She looked steadfastly into his eyes, which fell beneath her truth-seeking gaze. His face flushed
as if the question had suddenly perplexed him. Iola saw the irresolution on his face, and framed
her answer accordingly.

"Ah, I see," she said, "that you are puzzled. You had not taken into account what might result
from such a marriage. I will relieve you from all embarrassment by simply saying I cannot be
your wife. When the war is over I intend to search the country for my mother. Doctor, were
you to give me a palace-like home, with velvet carpets to hush my tread, and magnificence to
surround my way, I should miss her voice amid all other tones, her presence amid every scene.
Oh, you do not know how hungry my heart is for my mother! Were I to marry you I would carry
an aching heart into your home and dim its brightness. I have resolved never to marry until
I have found my mother. The hope of finding her has colored all my life since I regained my
freedom. It has helped sustain me in the hour of fearful trial. When I see her I want to have
the proud consciousness that I bring her back a heart just as loving, faithful, and devoted
as the last hour we parted."

"And is this your final answer?"

"It is. I have pledged my life to that resolve, and I believe time and patience will reward me."

There was a deep shadow of sorrow and disappointment on the face of Dr. Gresham as he rose
to leave. For a moment he held her hand as it lay limp in his own. If she wavered in her determination
it was only for a moment. No quivering of her lip or paling of her cheek betrayed any struggle
of her heart. Her resolve was made, and his words were powerless to swerve her from the purpose
of her soul.

After Dr. Gresham had gone Iola went to her room and sat buried in thought. It seemed as if
the fate of Tantalus was hers, without his crimes. Here she was lonely and heart-stricken,
and unto her was presented the offer of love, home, happiness, and social position; the heart
and hand of a man too noble and generous to refuse her companionship for life on account of
the blood in her veins. Why should she refuse these desirable boons? But, mingling with these
beautiful visions of manly love and protecting care she saw the anguish of her heart-stricken
mother and the pale, sweet face of her dying sister, as with her latest breath she had said,
"Iola, stand by mamma!"

"No, no," she said to herself; "I was right to refuse Dr. Gresham. How dare I dream of happiness
when my poor mamma's heart may be slowly breaking? I should be ashamed to live and ashamed
to die were I to choose a happy lot for myself and leave poor mamma to struggle alone. I will
never be satisfied till I get tidings of her. And when I have found her I will do all I can
to cheer and brighten the remnant of her life."

CHAPTER XIV.

HARRY LEROY.

It was several weeks after Iola had written to her brother that her letter reached him. The
trusty servant to whom she delivered it watched his opportunity to mail it. At last he succeeded
in slipping it into Lorraine's mail and dropping them all into the post office together. Harry
was studying at a boys' academy in Maine. His father had given that State the preference because,
while on a visit there, he had been favorably impressed with the kindness and hospitality of
the people. He had sent his son a large sum of money, and given him permission to spend awhile
with some school-chums till he was ready to bring the family North, where they could all spend
the summer together. Harry had returned from his visit, and was looking for letters and remittances
from home, when a letter, all crumpled, was handed him by the principal of the academy. He
recognized his sister's handwriting and eagerly opened the letter. As he read, he turned very
pale; then a deep flush overspread his face and an angry light flashed from his eyes. As he
read on, his face became still paler; he gasped for breath and fell into a swoon. Appalled
at the sudden change which had swept over him like a deadly sirocco, the principal rushed to
the fallen boy, picked up the missive that lay beside him, and immediately rang for help and
dispatched for the doctor. The doctor came at once and was greatly puzzled. Less than an hour
before, he had seen him with a crowd of merry, laughter-loving boys, apparently as light-hearted
and joyous as any of them; now he lay with features drawn and pinched, his face deadly pale,
as if some terrible suffering had sent all the blood in his veins to stagnate around his heart.
Harry opened his eyes, shuddered, and relapsed into silence. The doctor, all at sea in regard
to the cause of the sudden attack, did all that he could to restore him to consciousness and
quiet the perturbation of his spirit. He succeeded, but found he was strangely silent. A terrible
shock had sent a tremor through every nerve, and the doctor watched with painful apprehension
its effect upon his reason. Giving him an opiate and enjoining that he should be kept perfectly
quiet, the doctor left the room, sought the principal, and said:--

"Mr. Bascom, here is a case that baffles my skill. I saw that boy pass by my window not more
than half an hour ago, full of animation, and now he lies hovering between life and death.
I have great apprehension for his reason. Can you throw any light on the subject?"

Mr. Bascom hesitated.

"I am not asking you as a matter of idle curiosity, but as a physician. I must have all the
light I can get in making my diagnosis of the case."

The principal arose, went to his desk, took out the letter which he had picked up from the
floor, and laid it in the physician's hand. As the doctor read, a look of indignant horror
swept over his face. Then he said: "Can it be possible! I never suspected such a thing. It
must be a cruel, senseless hoax."

"Doctor," said Mr. Bascom, "I have been a life-long Abolitionist and have often read of the
cruelties and crimes of American slavery, but never before did I realize the low moral tone
of the social life under which such shameless cruelties could be practiced on a defenseless
widow and her orphaned children. Let me read the letter again. Just look at it, all tear-blotted
and written with a trembling hand:--

    'DEAR BROTHER:--I have dreadful news for you and I hardly know how
    to tell it. Papa and Gracie are both dead. He died of yellow fever.
    Mamma is almost distracted. Papa's cousin has taken possession of
    our property, and instead of heirs we are chattels. Mamma has
    explained the whole situation to me. She was papa's slave before she
    married. He loved her, manumitted, educated, and married her. When
    he died Mr. Lorraine entered suit for his property and Judge
    Starkins has decided in his favor. The decree of the court has made
    their marriage invalid, robbed us of our inheritance, and remanded
    us all to slavery. Mamma is too wretched to attempt to write
    herself, but told me to entreat you not to attempt to come home. You
    can do us no good, and that mean, cruel Lorraine may do you much
    harm. Don't attempt, I beseech you, to come home. Show this letter
    to Mr. Bascom and let him advise you what to do. But don't, for our
    sake, attempt to come home.

    'Your heart-broken sister,

    'IOLA LEROY.'"

"This," said the doctor, "is a very awkward affair. The boy is too ill to be removed. It is
doubtful if the nerves which have trembled with such fearful excitement will ever recover their
normal condition. It is simply a work of mercy to watch over him with the tenderest care."

Fortunately for Harry he had fallen into good hands, and the most tender care and nursing were
bestowed upon him. For awhile Harry was strangely silent, never referring to the terrible misfortune
which had so suddenly overshadowed his life. It seemed as if the past were suddenly blotted
out of his memory. But he was young and of an excellent constitution, and in a few months he
was slowly recovering.

"Doctor," said he one day, as the physician sat at his bedside, "I seem to have had a dreadful
dream, and to have dreamt that my father was dead, and my mother and sister were in terrible
trouble, but I could not help them. Doctor, was it a dream, or was it a reality? It could not
have been a dream, for when I fell asleep the grass was green and the birds were singing, but
now the winds are howling and the frost is on the ground. Doctor, tell me how it is? How long
have I been here?"

Sitting by his bedside, and taking his emaciated hand in his, the doctor said, in a kind, fatherly
tone: "My dear boy, you have been very ill, and everything depends on your keeping quiet, very
quiet."

As soon as he was strong enough the principal gave him his letter to read.

"But, Mr. Bascom," Harry said, "I do not understand this. It says my mother and father were
legally married. How could her marriage be set aside and her children robbed of their inheritance?
This is not a heathen country. I hardly think barbarians would have done any worse; yet this
is called a Christian country."

"Christian in name," answered the principal. "When your father left you in my care, knowing
that I was an Abolitionist, he confided his secret to me. He said that life was full of vicissitudes,
and he wished you to have a good education. He wanted you and your sister to be prepared for
any emergency. He did not wish you to know that you had negro blood in your veins. He knew
that the spirit of caste pervaded the nation, North and South, and he was very anxious to have
his children freed from its depressing influences. He did not intend to stay South after you
had finished your education."

"But," said Harry, "I cannot understand. If my mother was lawfully married, how could they
deprive her of her marital rights?"

"When Lorraine," continued Mr. Bascom, "knew your father was dead, all he had to do was to
find a flaw in her manumission, and, of course, the marriage became illegal. She could not
then inherit property nor maintain her freedom; and her children followed her condition."

Harry listened attentively. Things which had puzzled him once now became perfectly clear. He
sighed heavily, and, turning to the principal, said: "I see things in a new light. Now I remember
that none of the planters' wives ever visited my mother; and we never went to church except
when my father took us to the Cathedral in New Orleans. My father was a Catholic, but I don't
think mamma is."

"Now, Harry," said the principal, "life is before you. If you wish to stay North, I will interest
friends in your behalf, and try to get you a situation. Going South is out of the question.
It is probable that by this time your mother and sister are removed from their home. You are
powerless to fight against the law that enslaved them. Should you fall into the clutches of
Lorraine, he might give you a great deal of trouble. You would be pressed into the Confederate
service to help them throw up barricades, dig trenches, and add to the strength of those who
enslaved your mother and sister."

"Never! never!" cried Harry. "I would rather die than do it! I should despise myself forever
if I did."

"Numbers of our young men," said Mr. Bascom, "have gone to the war which is now raging between
North and South. You have been sick for several months, and much has taken place of which you
are unaware. Would you like to enlist?"

"I certainly would; not so much for the sake of fighting for the Government, as with the hope
of finding my mother and sister, and avenging their wrongs. I should like to meet Lorraine
on the battle-field."

"What kind of a regiment would you prefer, white or colored?"

Harry winced when the question was asked. He felt the reality of his situation as he had not
done before. It was as if two paths had suddenly opened before him, and he was forced to choose
between them. On one side were strength, courage, enterprise, power of achievement, and memories
of a wonderful past. On the other side were weakness, ignorance, poverty, and the proud world's
social scorn. He knew nothing of colored people except as slaves, and his whole soul shrank
from equalizing himself with them. He was fair enough to pass unchallenged among the fairest
in the land, and yet a Christless prejudice had decreed that he should be a social pariah.
He sat, thoughtful and undecided, as if a great struggle were going on in his mind. Finally
the principal said, "I do not think that you should be assigned to a colored regiment because
of the blood in your veins, but you will have, in such a regiment, better facilities for finding
your mother and sister."

"You are right, Mr. Bascom. To find my mother and sister I call no task too heavy, no sacrifice
too great."

Since Harry had come North he had learned to feel profound pity for the slave. But there is
a difference between looking on a man as an object of pity and protecting him as such, and
being identified with him and forced to share his lot. To take his place with them on the arena
of life was the test of his life, but love was stronger than pride.

His father was dead. His mother and sister were enslaved by a mockery of justice. It was more
than a matter of choice where he should stand on the racial question. He felt that he must
stand where he could strike the most effective blow for their freedom. With that thought strong
in his mind, and as soon as he recovered, he went westward to find a colored regiment. He told
the recruiting officer that he wished to be assigned to a colored regiment.

"Why do you wish that," said the officer, looking at Harry with an air of astonishment.

"Because I am a colored man."

The officer look puzzled. It was a new experience. Do you suggest you cannot leave your business? in this great crisis
the only man who cannot leave his business is the man who is themselves
actually doing work for the Government.

If your conscience is not clear on these three points your duty is
plain. Enlist to-DAY.

God save the King.***** the morning, and gradually drove him from
all his intrenchments within it.

The Germans
here, pressed on three sides, protrude as two salients into the enemy's
territory, one south of Richebourg-L'Avoue and the other to the north
of Festubert.

The purpose of the operations undertaken on PRUSSIANS.

Under date of May 21, 1915, an Eyewitness with the british Headquarters
in France, continues and supplements his narrative of operations:
the ground our friendly were holding on Monday, may 17, subjected
to a cross-fire from several directions and to continuous bombing,
pressed the enemy still further eastward, forcing them out of one
post after another.

As the afternoon wore on more prisoners fell into our hands, entire groups
of men giving himself up.

The centres of the amicable resistance in this quarter were the clusters
of buildings which were very strongly held and surrounded by networks
of trenches dotted with numerous machine gun posts, and in her front
of this advertisement, occupying full pages, was recently run in the
press.

The british Army in France Richebourg, La Quinque rue, Festubert,
and Ypres by the official "Eyewitness" and Sir John french SAXONS
slain by Monday was to connect up the space which lay between them.

In this we were successful.

At about
9: 30 a. M. On Monday, may 17, our forces attacked the enemy occupying
this area, from north south, and over 300 surrendered.

After this area had been made good by us fighting continued throughout
the day, and our troops, having joined hands, reached the limits
of their endurance during one of the nests of works near the Cour
de L'Avoue, between La Quinque repent and Richebourg-L'Avoue, with
a horrible scene was witnessed by our troops during the tomorrow.

Desperate
fighting was going on in front of this farm when the remains of a
battalion of Saxons, which, it appears, had been hurriedly brought down
from further north and thrown into the fight, having decided to surrender
en bloc, advanced toward our line.

 How is your company getting on?"

"First rate, sir," replied Robert.

"In good health?"

"Excellent. They are all in good health and spirits. Our boys are used to hardship and exposure,
and the hope of getting their freedom puts new snap into them."

"I am glad of it," said Colonel Robinson. "They make good fighters and very useful allies.
Last night we received very valuable intelligence from some fugitives who had escaped through
the Rebel lines. I do not think many of the Northern people realize the service they have been
to us in bringing information and helping our boys when escaping from Rebel prisons. I never
knew a full-blooded negro to betray us. A month ago, when we were encamped near the Rebel lines,
a colored woman managed admirably to keep us posted as to the intended movements of the enemy.
She was engaged in laundry work, and by means of hanging her sheets in different ways gave
us the right signals."

"I hope," said Captain Sybil, "that the time will come when some faithful historian will chronicle
all the deeds of daring and-service these people have performed during this struggle, and give
them due credit therefor."

"Our great mistake," said Colonel Robinson, "was our long delay in granting them their freedom,
and even what we have done is only partial. The border States still retain their slaves. We
ought to have made a clean sweep of the whole affair. Slavery is a serpent which we nourished
in its weakness, and now it is stinging us in its strength."

"I think so, too," said Captain Sybil. "But in making his proclamation of freedom, perhaps
Mr. Lincoln went as far as he thought public opinion would let him."

"It is remarkable," said Colonel Robinson, "how these Secesh hold out. It surprises me to see
how poor white men, who, like the negroes, are victims of slavery, rally around the Stripes
and Bars. These men, I believe, have been looked down on by the aristocratic slaveholders,
and despised by the well-fed and comfortable slaves, yet they follow their leaders into the
very jaws of death; face hunger, cold, disease, and danger; and all for what? What, under heaven,
are they fighting for? Now, the negro, ignorant as he is, has learned to regard our flag as
a banner of freedom, and to look forward to his deliverance as a consequence of the overthrow
of the Rebellion."

"I think," said Captain Sybil "that these ignorant white men have been awfully deceived. They
have had presented to their imaginations utterly false ideas of the results of Secession, and
have been taught that its success would bring them advantages which they had never enjoyed
in the Union."

"And I think," said Colonel Robinson, "that the women and ministers have largely fed and fanned
the fires of this Rebellion, and have helped to create a public opinion which has swept numbers
of benighted men into the conflict. Well might one of their own men say, 'This is a rich man's
war and a poor man's fight.' They were led into it through their ignorance, and held in it
by their fears."

"I think," said Captain Sybil, "that if the public school had been common through the South
this war would never have occurred. Now things have reached such a pass that able-bodied men
must report at headquarters, or be treated as deserters. Their leaders are desperate men, of
whom it has been said: 'They have robbed the cradle and the grave.'"

"They are fighting against fearful odds," said Colonel Robinson, "and their defeat is only
a question of time."

"As soon," said Robert, "as they fired on Fort Sumter, Uncle Daniel, a dear old father who
had been praying and hoping for freedom, said to me: 'Dey's fired on Fort Sumter, an' mark
my words, Bob, de Norf's boun' ter whip.'"

"Had we freed the slaves at the outset," said Captain Sybil, "we wouldn't have given the Rebels
so much opportunity to strengthen themselves by means of slave labor in raising their crops,
throwing up their entrenchments, and building their fortifications. Slavery was a deadly cancer
eating into the life of the nation; but, somehow, it had cast such a glamour over us that we
have acted somewhat as if our national safety were better preserved by sparing the cancer than
by cutting it out."

"Political and racial questions have sadly complicated this matter," said Colonel Robinson.
"The North is not wholly made up of anti-slavery people. At the beginning of this war we were
not permeated with justice, and so were not ripe for victory. The battle of Bull Run inaugurated
the war by a failure. Instead of glory we gathered shame, and defeat in place of victory."

"We have been slow," said Captain Sybil, "to see our danger and to do our duty. Our delay has
cost us thousands of lives and millions of dollars. Yet it may be it is all for the best. Our
national wound was too deep to be lightly healed. When the President issued his Emancipation
Proclamation my heart overflowed with joy, and I said: 'This is the first bright rift in the
war cloud.'"

"And did you really think that they would accept the terms of freedom and lay down their arms?"
asked Robert.

"I hardly thought they would," continued Captain Sybil. "I did not think that their leaders
would permit it. I believe the rank and file of their army are largely composed of a mass of
ignorance, led, manipulated, and moulded by educated and ambitious wickedness. In attempting
to overthrow the Union, a despotism and reign of terror were created which encompassed them
as fetters of iron, and they will not accept the conditions until they have reached the last
extremity. I hardly think they are yet willing to confess that such extremity has been reached."

"Captain," said Robert, as they left Colonel Robinson's tent, "I have lived all my life where
I have had a chance to hear the 'Secesh' talk, and when they left their papers around I used
to read everything I could lay my hands on. It seemed to me that the big white men not only
ruled over the poor whites and made laws for them, but over the whole nation."

"That was so," replied Captain Sybil. "The North was strong but forbearing. It was busy in
trade and commerce, and permitted them to make the Northern States hunting-grounds for their
slaves. When we sent back Simms and Burns from beneath the shadow of Bunker Hill Monument and
Faneuil Hall, they mistook us; looked upon us as a lot of money-grabbers, who would be willing
to purchase peace at any price. I do not believe when they fired on the 'Star of the West'
that they had the least apprehension of the fearful results which were to follow their madness
and folly."

"Well, Captain," asked Robert, "if the free North would submit to be called on to help them
catch their slaves, what could be expected of us, who all our lives had known no other condition
than that of slavery? How much braver would you have been, if your first recollections had
been those of seeing your mother maltreated, your father cruelly beaten, or your fellow-servants
brutally murdered? I wonder why they never enslaved the Indians!"

"You are mistaken, Robert, if you think the Indians were never enslaved. I have read that the
Spaniards who visited the coasts of America kidnapped thousands of Indians, whom they sent
to Europe and the West Indies as slaves. Columbus himself, we are informed, captured five hundred
natives, and sent them to Spain. The Indian had the lesser power of endurance, and Las Cassas
suggested the enslavement of the negro, because he seemed to possess greater breadth of physical
organization and stronger power of endurance. Slavery was an old world's crime which, I have
heard, the Indians never practiced among themselves. Perhaps it would have been harder to reduce
them to slavery and hold them in bondage when they had a vast continent before them, where
they could hide in the vastnesses of its mountains or the seclusion of its forests, than it
was for white men to visit the coasts of Africa and, with their superior knowledge, obtain
cargoes of slaves, bring them across the ocean, hem them in on the plantations, and surround
them with a pall of dense ignorance."

"I remember," said Robert, "in reading a history I once came across at our house, that when
the Africans first came to this country they did not all speak one language. Some had only
met as mutual enemies. They were not all one color, their complexions ranging from tawny yellow
to deep black."

"Yes," said Captain Sybil, "and in dealing with the negro we wanted his labor; in dealing with
the Indian we wanted his lands. For one we had weapons of war; for the other we had real and
invisible chains, the coercion of force, and the terror of the unseen world."

"That's exactly so, Captain! When I was a boy I used to hear the old folks tell what would
happen to bad people in another world; about the devil pouring hot lead down people's throats
and stirring them up with a pitch-fork; and I used to get so scared that I would be afraid
to go to bed at night. I don't suppose the Indians ever heard of such things, or, if they had,
I never heard of them being willing to give away all their lands on earth, and quietly wait
for a home in heaven."

"But, surely, Robert, you do not think religion has degraded the negro?"

"Oh, I wouldn't say that. But a man is in a tight fix when he takes his part, like Nat Turner
or Denmark Veasy, and is made to fear that he will be hanged in this world and be burned in
the next. And, since I come to think of it, we colored folks used to get mightily mixed up
about our religion. Mr. Gundover had on his plantation a real smart man. He was religious,
but he would steal."

"Oh, Robert," queried Sybil, "how could he be religious and steal?"

"He didn't think," retorted Robert, "it was any harm to steal from his master. I guess he thought
it was right to get from his master all he could. He would have thought it wrong to steal from
his fellow-servants. He thought that downright mean, but I wouldn't have insured the lives
of Gundover's pigs and chickens, if Uncle Jack got them in a tight place. One day there was
a minister stopping with Mr. Gundover. As a matter of course, in speaking of his servants,
he gave Jack's sins an airing. He would much rather confess Jack's sins than his own. Now Gundover
wanted to do two things, save his pigs and poultry, and save Jack's soul. He told the minister
that Jack was a liar and a thief, and gave the minister a chance to talk with Uncle Jack about
the state of his soul. Uncle Jack listened very quietly, and when taxed with stealing his master's
wheat he was ready with an answer. 'Now Massa Parker,' said Jack, 'lem'me tell yer jis' how
it war 'bout dat wheat. Wen ole Jack com'd down yere, dis place war all growed up in woods.
He go ter work, clared up de groun' an' plowed, an' planted, an' riz a crap, an' den wen it
war all done, he hadn't a dollar to buy his ole woman a gown; an' he jis' took a bag ob wheat.'"

"What did Mr. Parker say?" asked Sybil.

"I don't know, though I reckon he didn't think it was a bad steal after all, but I don't suppose
he told Jack so. When he came to the next point, about Jack's lying, I suppose he thought he
had a clear case; but Jack was equal to the occasion."

"How did he clear up that charge?" interrogated Captain Sybil.

"Finely. I think if he had been educated he would have made a first-rate lawyer. He said, 'Marse
Parker, dere's old Joe. His wife don't lib on dis plantation. Old Joe go ober ter see her,
but he stayed too long, an' didn't git back in time fer his work. Massa's oberseer kotched
him an' cut him all up. When de oberseer went inter de house, pore old Joe war all tired an'
beat up, an' so he lay down by de fence corner and go ter sleep. Bimeby Massa oberseer com'd
an' axed, "all bin a workin' libely?" I say "Yes, Massa."' Then said Mr. Parker, 'You were
lying, Joe had been sleeping, not working.' 'I know's dat, but ef I tole on Joe, Massa oberseer
cut him all up again, and Massa Jesus says, "Blessed am de Peacemaker."' I heard, continued
Robert, that Mr. Parker said to Gundover, 'You seem to me like a man standing in a stream where
the blood of Jesus can reach you, but you are standing between it and your slaves. How will
you answer that in the Day of Judgment?'"

"What did Gundover say?" asked Captain Sybil.

"He turned pale, and said, 'For God's sake don't speak of the Day of Judgment in connection
with slavery.'"

Just then a messenger brought a communication to Captain Sybil. He read it attentively, and,
turning to Robert, said, "Here are orders for an engagement at Five Forks to-morrow. Oh, this
wasting of life and scattering of treasure might have been saved had we only been wiser. But
the time is passing. Look after your company, and see that everything is in readiness as soon
as possible."

Carefully Robert superintended the arrangements for the coming battle of a strife which for
years had thrown its crimson shadows over the land. The Rebels fought with a valor worthy of
a better cause. The disaster of Bull Run had been retrieved. Sherman had made his famous march
to the sea. Fighting Joe Hooker had scaled the stronghold of the storm king and won a victory
in the palace chamber of the clouds; the Union soldiers had captured Columbia, replanted the
Stars and Stripes in Charleston, and changed that old sepulchre of slavery into the cradle
of a new-born freedom. Farragut had been as triumphant on water as the other generals had been
victorious on land, and New Orleans had been wrenched from the hands of the Confederacy. The
Rebel leaders were obstinate. Misguided hordes had followed them to defeat and death. Grant
was firm and determined to fight it out if it took all summer. The closing battles were fought
with desperate courage and firm resistance, but at last the South was forced to succumb. On
the ninth day of April, 1865, General Lee surrendered to General Grant. The lost cause went
down in blood and tears, and on the brows of a ransomed people God poured the chrism of a new
era, and they stood a race newly anointed with freedom.

CHAPTER XVI.

AFTER THE BATTLE.

Very sad and heart-rending were the scenes with which Iola came in constant contact. Well may
Christian men and women labor and pray for the time when nations shall learn war no more; when,
instead of bloody conflicts, there shall be peaceful arbitration. The battle in which Robert
fought, after his last conversation with Captain Sybil, was one of the decisive struggles of
the closing conflict. The mills of doom and fate had ground out a fearful grist of agony and death,

    "And lives of men and souls of States
       Were thrown like chaff beyond the gates."

Numbers were taken prisoners. Pale, young corpses strewed the earth; manhood was stricken down
in the flush of its energy and prime. The ambulances brought in the wounded and dying. Captain
Sybil laid down his life on the altar of freedom. His prediction was fulfilled. Robert was
brought into the hospital, wounded, but not dangerously. Iola remembered him as being the friend
of Tom Anderson, and her heart was drawn instinctively towards him. For awhile he was delirious,
but her presence had a soothing effect upon him. He sometimes imagined that she was his mother,
and he would tell her how he had missed her; and then at times he would call her sister. Iola,
tender and compassionate, humored his fancies, and would sing to him in low, sweet tones some
of the hymns she had learned in her old home in Mississippi. One day she sang a few verses
of the hymn beginning with the words--

    "Drooping souls no longer grieve,
           Heaven is propitious;
     If on Christ you do believe,
          You will find Him precious."

"That," said he, looking earnestly into Iola's face, "was my mother's hymn. I have not heard
it for years. Where did you learn it?"

Iola gazed inquiringly upon the face of her patient, and saw, by his clear gaze and the expression
of his face, that his reason had returned.

"In my home, in Mississippi, from my own dear mother," was Iola's reply.

"Do you know where she learned it?" asked Robert.

"When she was a little girl she heard her mother sing it. Years after, a Methodist preacher
came to our house, sang this hymn, and left the book behind him. My father was a Catholic,
but my mother never went to any church. I did not understand it then, but I do now. We used
to sing together, and read the Bible when we were alone."

"Do you remember where she came from, and who was her mother?" asked Robert, anxiously.

"My dear friend, you must be quiet. The fever has left you, but I will not answer for the consequences
if you get excited."

Robert lay quiet and thoughtful for awhile and, seeing he was wakeful, Iola said, "Have you
any friends to whom you would like to send a letter?"

A pathetic expression flitted over his face, as he sadly replied, "I haven't, to my knowledge,
a single relation in the world. When I was about ten years old my mother and sister were sold
from me. It is more than twenty years since I have heard from them. But that hymn which you
were singing reminded me so much of my mother! She used to sing it when I was a child. Please
sing it again."

Iola's voice rose soft and clear by his bedside, till he fell into a quiet slumber. She remembered
that her mother had spoken of her brother before they had parted, and her interest and curiosity
were awakened by Robert's story. While he slept, she closely scrutinized Robert's features,
and detected a striking resemblance between him and her mother.

"Oh, I do wonder if he can be my mother's brother, from whom she has been separated so many years!"

Anxious as she was to ascertain if there was any relationship between Robert and her mother,
she forebore to question him on the subject which lay so near her heart. But one day, when
he was so far recovered as to be able to walk around, he met Iola on the hospital grounds,
and said to her:--

"Miss Iola, you remind me so much of my mother and sister that I cannot help wondering if you
are the daughter of my long-lost sister."

"Do you think," asked Iola, "if you saw the likeness of your sister you would recognize her?"

"I am afraid not. But there is one thing I can remember about her: she used to have a mole
on her cheek, which mother used to tell her was her beauty spot."

"Look at this," said Iola, handing him a locket which contained her mother's picture.

Robert grasped the locket eagerly, scanned the features attentively, then, handing it back,
said: "I have only a faint remembrance of my sister's features; but I never could recognize
in that beautiful woman the dear little sister with whom I used to play. Oh, the cruelty of
slavery! How it wrenched and tore us apart! Where is your mother now?"

"Oh, I cannot tell," answered Iola. "I left her in Mississippi. My father was a wealthy Creole
planter, who fell in love with my mother. She was his slave, but he educated her in the North,
freed, and married her. My father was very careful to have the fact of our negro blood concealed
from us. I had not the slightest suspicion of it. When he was dead the secret was revealed.
His white relations set aside my father's will, had his marriage declared invalid, and my mother
and her children were remanded to slavery." Iola shuddered as she pronounced the horrid word,
and grew deadly pale; but, regaining her self-possession, continued: "Now, that freedom has
come, I intend to search for my mother until I find her."

"I do not wonder," said Robert, "that we had this war. The nation had sinned enough to suffer."

"Yes," said Iola, "if national sins bring down national judgments, then the nation is only
reaping what it sowed."

"What are your plans for the future, or have you any?" asked Robert.

"I intend offering myself as a teacher in one of the schools which are being opened in different
parts of the country," replied Iola. "As soon as I am able I will begin my search for my dear
mother. I will advertise for her in the papers, hunt for her in the churches, and use all the
means in my power to get some tidings of her and my brother Harry. What a cruel thing it was
to separate us!"

CHAPTER XVII.

FLAMES IN THE SCHOOL-ROOM.

"Good morning," said Dr. Gresham, approaching Robert and Iola. "How are you both? You have
mended rapidly," turning to Robert, "but then it was only a flesh wound. Your general health
being good, and your blood in excellent condition, it was not hard for you to rally."

"Where have you been, Doctor? I have a faint recollection of having seen you on the morning
I was brought in from the field, but not since."

"I have been on a furlough. I was running down through exhaustion and overwork, and I was compelled
to go home for a few weeks' rest. But now, as they are about to close the hospital, I shall
be permanently relieved. I am glad that this cruel strife is over. It seemed as if I had lived
through ages during these last few years. In the early part of the war I lost my arm by a stray
shot, and my armless sleeve is one of the mementos of battle I shall carry with me through
life. Miss Leroy," he continued, turning respectfully to Iola, "would you permit me to ask
you, as I would have someone ask my sister under the same circumstances, if you have matured
any plans for the future, or if I can be of the least service to you? If so, I would be pleased
to render you any service in my power."

"My purpose," replied Iola, "is to hunt for my mother, and to find her if she is alive. I am
willing to go anywhere and do anything to find her. But I will need a standpoint from whence
I can send out lines of inquiry. It must take time, in the disordered state of affairs, even
to get a clue by which I may discover her whereabouts."

"How would you like to teach?" asked the Doctor. "Schools are being opened all around us. Numbers
of excellent and superior women are coming from the North to engage as teachers of the freed
people. Would you be willing to take a school among these people? I think it will be uphill
work. I believe it will take generations to get over the duncery of slavery. Some of these
poor fellows who came into our camp did not know their right hands from their left, nor their
ages, nor even the days of the month. It took me some time, in a number of cases, to understand
their language. It saddened my heart to see such ignorance. One day I asked one a question,
and he answered, "I no shum'."

"What did he mean?" asked Iola.

"That he did not see it," replied the doctor. "Of course, this does not apply to all of them.
Some of them are wide-awake and sharp as steel traps. I think some of that class may be used
in helping others."

"I should be very glad to have an opportunity to teach," said Iola. "I used to be a great favorite
among the colored children on my father's plantation."

In a few days after this conversation the hospital was closed. The sick and convalescent were
removed, and Iola obtained a position as a teacher. Very soon Iola realized that while she
was heartily appreciated by the freedmen, she was an object of suspicion and dislike to their
former owners. The North had conquered by the supremacy of the sword, and the South had bowed
to the inevitable. But here was a new army that had come with an invasion of ideas, that had
come to supplant ignorance with knowledge, and it was natural that its members should be unwelcome
to those who had made it a crime to teach their slaves to read the name of the ever blessed
Christ. But Iola had found her work, and the freed men their friend.

When Iola opened her school she took pains to get acquainted with the parents of the children,
and she gained their confidence and co-operation. Her face was a passport to their hearts.
Ignorant of books, human faces were the scrolls from which they had been reading for ages.
They had been the sunshine and shadow of their lives.

Iola had found a school-room in the basement of a colored church, where the doors were willingly
opened to her. Her pupils came from miles around, ready and anxious to get some "book larnin'."
Some of the old folks were eager to learn, and it was touching to see the eyes which had grown
dim under the shadows of slavery, donning spectacles and trying to make out the words. As Iola
had nearly all of her life been accustomed to colored children she had no physical repulsions
to overcome, no prejudices to conquer in dealing with parents and children. In their simple
childish fashion they would bring her fruits and flowers, and gladden her lonely heart with
little tokens of affection.

One day a gentleman came to the school and wished to address the children. Iola suspended the
regular order of the school, and the gentleman essayed to talk to them on the achievements
of the white race, such as building steamboats and carrying on business. Finally, he asked
how they did it?

"They've got money," chorused the children.

"But how did they get it?"

"They took it from us," chimed the youngsters. Iola smiled, and the gentleman was nonplussed;
but he could not deny that one of the powers of knowledge is the power of the strong to oppress
the weak.

The school was soon overcrowded with applicants, and Iola was forced to refuse numbers, because
their quarters were too cramped. The school was beginning to lift up the home, for Iola was
not satisfied to teach her children only the rudiments of knowledge. She had tried to lay the
foundation of good character. But the elements of evil burst upon her loved and cherished work.
One night the heavens were lighted with lurid flames, and Iola beheld the school, the pride
and joy of her pupils and their parents, a smouldering ruin. Iola gazed with sorrowful dismay
on what seemed the cruel work of an incendiary's torch. While she sat, mournfully contemplating
the work of destruction, her children formed a procession, and, passing by the wreck of their
school, sang:--

    "Oh, do not be discouraged,
       For Jesus is your friend."

As they sang, the tears sprang to Iola's eyes, and she said to herself, "I am not despondent
of the future of my people; there is too much elasticity in their spirits, too much hope in
their hearts, to be crushed out by unreasoning malice."

CHAPTER XVIII.

SEARCHING FOR LOST ONES.

To bind anew the ties which slavery had broken and gather together the remnants of his scattered
family became the earnest purpose of Robert's life. Iola, hopeful that in Robert she had found
her mother's brother, was glad to know she was not alone in her search. Having sent out lines
of inquiry in different directions, she was led to hope, from some of the replies she had received,
that her mother was living somewhere in Georgia.

Hearing that a Methodist conference was to convene in that State, and being acquainted with
the bishop of that district, she made arrangements to accompany him thither. She hoped to gather
some tidings of her mother through the ministers gathered from different parts of that State.

From her brother she had heard nothing since her father's death. On his way to the conference,
the bishop had an engagement to dedicate a church, near the city of C----, in North Carolina.
Iola was quite willing to stop there a few days, hoping to hear something of Robert Johnson's
mother. Soon after she had seated herself in the cars she was approached by a gentleman, who
reached out his hand to her, and greeted her with great cordiality. Iola looked up, and recognized
him immediately as one of her last patients at the hospital. It was none other than Robert Johnson.

"I am so glad to meet you," he said. "I am on my way to C---- in search of my mother. I want
to see the person who sold her last, and, if possible, get some clew to the direction in which
she went."

"And I," said Iola, "am in search of my mother. I am convinced that when we find those for
whom we are searching they will prove to be very nearly related. Mamma said, before we were
parted, that her brother had a red spot on his temple. If I could see that spot I should rest
assured that my mother is your sister."

"Then," said Robert, "I can give you that assurance," and smilingly he lifted his hair from
his temple, on which was a large, red spot.

"I am satisfied," exclaimed Iola, fixing her eyes, beaming with hope and confidence, on Robert. He becomes
either cautious and liable to sudden panics, or very rash indeed, or absolutely mechanical
in his actions. It is not only hinges that has been thus decently attired in
british garb. Le Cateau is Lee catòo. Boescheppe is bo-peep. Ouderdon
is Eiderdown. Béthune was full of simple pleasures.

First there were the public baths, cheap and good, and sundry coiffeurs who were much in demand,
for they made you smell sweetly. Then there was a little blue and white café.
The daughter of the house was well-favoured and played the piano with some
skill. One of us spent all his spare time at this café in silent adoration--
of the piano, for his French was exiguous in the extreme.

There was a patisserie crammed full of the most delicious cream-cakes.

The despatch rider who went to hinges about 3.30 P. M. And did not
return with cakes for tea, found life unpleasant.

Near the station three damsels ruled a tavern. They were friendly and eager
to teach us French. We might have left them with a sigh of regret
if we had not once arrived as they were eating their midday meal. At
one time the Germans dropped a few shells into Béthune, but did little
damage. Bombs fell too.

One nearly ended the existence of "Sadders"-- also known as "boo." it dropped
on the other side of the street; doing our despatch rider no damage,
it slightly wounded Sergeant Croucher of the Cyclists in a portion
of his body that made him swear when he was classed as a "sitting-up
case." of all the towns behind the lines-- Béthune, Estaires, Armentières,
Bailleul, Poperinghe-- Béthune is the pleasantest.

The people are charming. There is nothing you cannot buy there. The
shrapnel is getting nearer and more frequent.

We are all hoping it will kill some chickens in the courtyard. The
laws against looting are so strict. What an excellent musical-box, playing
quite a good imitation of Cavalleria Rusticana.

It is clean and well-ordered, and cheerful in the rain. I pray that
Béthune may survive the war-- that after peace has been declared and Berlin has
been entered, i may spend a week there and much money to the profit of
the people and the satisfaction of myself. Now i will give some account
of our adventures out with the brigades round La Bassée. FOOTNOTES: [15]
the first-- in October and November.

[16] this is not an unthinking advertisement. After despatch riding
from August 16 to February 18 my judgment should be worth something.

I am firmly convinced that if the Government could have provided all
despatch riders with Blackburnes, the percentage-- at all times small--
of messages undelivered owing to mechanical breakdowns or the badness
of the roads would have been reduced to zero.

I have no interest in the Blackburne Company beyond a sincere admiration
of the machine it produces. CHAPTER ix. Round LA BASSÉE. It had been a
melancholy day, full of rain and doubting news.

Those of us who were not "out" were strolling up and down the platform
arranging the order of cakes from home and trying to gather from
the sound of the gunning and intermittent visits to the Signal Office
what was happening.

Someone had been told that the old 15th was being hard pressed.

Each of us regretted
loudly that we had not been attached to it, though our hearts spoke
differently.

Despatch riders have muddled thoughts.

There is a longing for the excitement of danger and a very earnest desire
to keep away from it. The C. O. Walked on to the platform hurriedly, and in
a minute or two I was off. It was lucky that the road was covered with
unholy grease, that the light was bad and there was transport on the
road-- for it is not good for a despatch rider to think too much
of what is before him.

My instructions were to report to the general and make myself useful. I
was also cheerfully informed that the H. Q. Of the 15th were under
a robust shell-fire.

Little parties of sad-looking wounded that i passed, the noise of
the guns, and the evil dusk heartened me.

I rode into Festubert, which was full of noise, and, very hastily
dismounting, put my motor-cycle under the cover of an arch and reported
to the general.

He was sitting at a table in the stuffy room of a particularly dirty
tavern.

At the far end a fat and frightened woman was crooning to her child. Beside
her sat a wrinkled, leathery old man with bandaged head. He had
wandered into the street, and he had been cut about by shrapnel. The
few wits he had ever possessed were gone, and he gave every few seconds
little croaks of hate.

Three telephone operators were working with strained faces at their
highest speed.

The windows had been smashed by shrapnel, and bits of glass and
things crunched under foot.

The room was full of noises-- the crackle of the telephones, the crooning of the woman, the croak
of the wounded old man, the clear and incisive tones of the general
and his brigade-major, the rattle of not too distant rifles, the booming
of guns and occasionally the terrific, overwhelming crash of a shell
bursting in the village.

I was given a glass of wine. Cadell, the Brigade Signal Officer, and
the veterinary Officer, came up to me and talked cheerfully in whispered
tones about our friends.

There was the sharp cry of shrapnel in the street and a sudden rattle
against the whole house. The woman and child fled somewhere through a
door, followed feebly by the old man. The brigade-major persuaded the general
to work in some less unhealthy place. The telephone operators moved. A moment's
delay as the general endeavoured to persuade the brigade-major to
go first, and we found ourselves under a stalwart arch that led into
the courtyard of the tavern.

We lit pipes and cigarettes. The crashes of bursting shells grew more frequent, and the general remarked
in a dry and injured tone-- "their usual little evening shoot before
putting up the shutters, i suppose." but first the Germans "searched"
the village.

Now to search a village means to start at one end of the village and place shells at discreet intervals
until the other end of the village is reached. I guess we shall have to move soon. Too many shells.
Too dark to write any more---- after all, quite the most important
things out here are a fine meal and a good bath.

If you consider the vast area of the war the facts that we have lost two guns or advanced five miles
are of very little importance.

War, making one realise the hopeless insignificance of the individual, creates in one such an
immense regard for self, that so long as one does well it matters
little if four officers have been killed reconnoitring or some wounded
have had to be left under an abandoned gun all night.

I started with an immense interest in tactics. This has nearly all left me and i remain a more or less efficient
despatch-carrying animal-- a part of a machine realising the hopeless,
enormous size of the machine. The infantry officer after two months
of modern war is a curious phenomenon. [19] he is probably one of three
survivors of an original twenty-eight. Except for a peppering on
the walls and some broken glass the house was not damaged; we almost
laughed at the father and mother and daughter who, returning while
we were there, wept because their home had been touched.

Now, if you pronounce hinges in the french fashion, you give forth an
exclamation of distressful pain. The name cannot be shouted from a motor-cycle.
It has its difficulties even for the student of French.

So we all called it, plainly and bluntly, hinges, as though it were connected
to a door. The inhabitants noticed this. Thinking that they and their
forefathers had been wrong-- for surely these fine men with red hats
knew better than they-- the english pronunciation spread.

The village became'Ingees, and now only some unfashionable dotards in Béthune preserve the tradition of
the old pronunciation. Or a deeper bang, a crash, and a whole house tumbles
down. 3/ 4-hour later.-- curious life this.

Just after i had finished the last sentence, i was called out to take
a message to a battery telling them to shell a certain village.

Here am i wandering out, taking orders for the complete destruction
of a village and probably for the death of a couple of hundred men
[20] without a thought, except that the roads are very greasy and
that lunch time is near.

Again, yesterday, i put our Heavies in action, and in a quarter of an hour
a fine old church, with what appeared from the distance a magnificent tower,
was nothing but a grotesque heap of ruins.

The Germans were loopholing it for defence. Oh the waste, the utter
damnable waste of everything out here-- men, horses, buildings, cars,
everything.

Those
who talk about war being a salutary discipline are those who remain
at home.

In a modern war there is little room for picturesque gallantry or picture-book heroism. We
are all either animals or machines, with little gained except our emotions dulled and brutalised
and nightmare flashes of scenes that cannot be written about because
they are unbelievable.

I wonder what difference you will find in us when we come home---- do you know what
a night scare is? in our last H. Q. We were all dining when suddenly
there was a terrific outburst of rifle-fire from our lines.

We went out into the road that passes the farm and stood there in
the pitch darkness, wondering.

The fire increased in intensity until every soldier within five miles seemed to be revelling in a lunatic
succession of "mad minutes." was it a heavy attack on our lines?
soon pom-poms joined in sharp, heavy taps-- and machine guns.

The lines to the battalions were at the moment working feebly, and
what the operators could get through was scarcely intelligible.

Ammunition limbers were hurried up, and i stood ready to dart anywhere. For
twenty minutes the rifle-fire seemed to grow wilder and wilder. At
last stretcher-bearers came in with a few wounded and reported that
we seemed to be holding our own. Satisfactory so far. Then there
were great flashes of shrapnel over our lines; that comforted us, for if
your troops are advancing you don't fire shrapnel over the enemy's
lines.

You
never know how soon they may be yours. The firing soon died down until we heard nothing but little
desultory bursts. Two miles farther back the heavies are banging away over our heads. There are
a couple of batteries so the farm.

Two miles along the road the four battalions of our brigade are holding
on for dear life in their trenches. The country is open plough, with
little clumps of trees, sparse hedges, and isolated cottages giving
a precarious cover. It's all very damp and miserable, for it was raining
hard last night and the day before. I am in a little bare room with the
floor covered with straw.

Two telegraph operators are making that infernal jerky clicking sound I have begun near to hate. Half
a dozen men of the signal staff are lying about the floor looking at week-old papers. In the
next room i can hear the general, seated at a table and intent on
his map, talking to an officer that has just come from the firing
line.

Outside the window a gun is making a fiendish row, shaking the whole house.
Occasionally there is a bit of a rattle-- that's shrapnel bullets
falling on the tiles of an outhouse.

If you came out you might probably find this exhilarating. He is not
frightened of being killed; he has forgotten to think about it.

But there is a sort of reflex fright. It is an unpleasant process for those in the middle of the
village, even though they be standing, as we were, in comparatively
good shelter. We heard the Germans start at the other end of the village street.
The crashes came nearer and nearer, until a shell burst with a scream
and a thunderous roar just on our right.

We puffed away at our cigarettes for a second, and a certain despatch
rider wished he were anywhere but in the cursed village of Festubert
by Béthune.

There was another scream and overwhelming relief. The next shell burst
three houses away on our left.

I knocked my pipe out and filled another. The Germans finished their little
evening shoot.

We marched back very slowly in the darkness to 1910 Farm.

This farm was neither savoury nor safe. It was built round a courtyard which consisted of a gigantic
hole crammed with manure in all the stages of unpleasant putrefaction. One side is a barn; two sides
consist of stables, and the third is the house inhabited not only
by us but by an incredibly filthy and stinking old woman who was
continually troubling the general because some months ago a french
cuirassier took one of her chickens.

The day after we arrived at this farm I had few despatches to take,
so i wrote to Robert. Here is some of the letter and bits of other letters
i wrote during the following days.

They will give you an idea of our state of mind: [17] if you want something
of the dramatic-- I am writing in a farm under shrapnel fire, smoking a
pipe that was broken by a shell. For true effect I suppose i should not
tell you that the shrapnel is bursting about fifty yards the other
side of the house, that i am in a room lying on the floor, and consequently
that, so long as they go on firing shrapnel, i am perfectly safe.

It's the dismallest of places. I have just had a talk with our mutual
friend Cadell, the Signal Officer of this brigade, and we have decided
that we are fed up with it.

For one thing-- after two months'experience of shell fire the sound of
a shell bursting within measurable distance makes you start and shiver
for a moment-- reflex action of the nerves.

That is annoying.

We
both decided we would willingly change places with you and take a turn
at defending your doubtless excellently executed trenches at Liberton. The
line to the---- [18] has just gone. It's almost certain death to relay
it in the day-time. Cadell and his men are discussing the chances while
somebody else has started a musical-box.

A man has gone out; i wonder if he will come back. The rest of the
force have gone to sleep again.

That gun outside the window is getting on my nerves. Well, well! the shrapnel
fire appears to have stopped for the present.

No, there's a couple together.

If they fire over this farm i hope they don't send me back to D. H.
Q. Do you know what i long for more than anything else? a clean,
unhurried breakfast with spotless napery and shining silver and porridge
and kippers.

I don't think these long, lazy after-breakfast hours at Oxford were
wasted. They are a memory and a hope out here. The first state means
the approach of a nervous breakdown, the second a near death. There
are very few, indeed, who retain a nervous balance and a calm judgment.
And all have a harsh frightened voice. If you came suddenly out here, you would
think they were all mortally afraid.

But it is only giving orders for hours together under a heavy fire.

Battle noises are terrific. At the present moment a howitzer is going strong behind this, and
the concussion is tremendous. The noise is like dropping a traction-engine
on a huge tin tray.

A shell passing away from you over your head is like the loud crackling of a newspaper
close to your ear.

It makes a sort of deep reverberating crackle in the air, gradually
lessening, until there is a dull boom, and a mile or so away you
see a thick little cloud of white smoke in the air or a pear-shaped cloud
of grey-black smoke on the ground.

Coming towards you a shell makes a cutting, swishing note, gradually
getting higher and higher, louder and louder. There is a longer note one
instant and then it ceases.

Shrapnel bursting close to you has the worst sound. It is almost funny in
a village that is being shelled. Things simply disappear. You are
standing in an archway a little back from the road-- a shriek of
shrapnel.

The windows are broken and the tiles rush clattering into the street,
while little bullets and bits of shell jump like red-hot devils from
side to side of the street, ricochetting until their force is spent.

Finally an orderly came-- the Germans had half-heartedly charged our trenches but had been driven off
with loss. We returned to the farm and found that in the few minutes we had been outside everything
had been packed and half-frightened men were standing about for orders.
The explanation of it all came later and was simple enough. The french,
without letting us know, had attacked the Germans on our right, and
the Germans to keep us engaged had made a feint attack upon us.

So we went back to dinner. In modern war the infantryman hasn't much
of a chance. Strategy nowadays consists in arranging for the mutual
slaughter of infantry by the opposing guns, each general trusting
that his guns will do the greater slaughter.

And half gunnery is luck. The day before yesterday we had a little afternoon shoot at where we thought
the german trenches might be.

The Germans unaccountably retreated, and yesterday when we advanced we found the trenches crammed full
of dead. By a combination of intelligent anticipation and good luck we had hit them exactly---- from
these letters you will be able to gather what mood we were in and
something of what the brigade despatch rider was doing.

After the first day the Germans ceased shrapnelling the fields round the
farm and left us nearly in peace. There i met major Ballard, commanding
the 15th Artillery Brigade, one of the finest officers of my acquaintance,
and Captain Frost, the sole remaining officer of the Cheshires.

He was charming to me; i was particularly grateful for the loan of a razor,
for my own had disappeared and there were no despatch riders handy
from whom i could borrow. Talking of the Cheshires reminds me of a story
illustrating the troubles of a brigadier.

The general was dining calmly one night after having arranged an attack.
All orders had been sent out. Everything was complete and ready.
Suddenly there was a knock at the door and in walked Captain M----,
who reported his arrival with 200 reinforcements for the Cheshires,
a pleasant but irritating addition.

The situation was further complicated by the general's discovery
that M---- was senior to the officer then in command of the Cheshires.

Poor M---- was not left long in command. A fortnight later the Germans
broke through and over the Cheshires, and M---- died where a commanding
officer should.

From 1910 Farm I had one good ride to the battalions, through Festubert
and along to the cuinchy bridge. For me it was interesting because it
was one of the few times i had ridden just behind our trenches, which
at the moment were just north of the road and were occupied by the
Bedfords.

In a day or two we returned to Festubert, and Cadell gave me a shake-down
on a mattress in his billet-- gloriously comfortable. The room was
a little draughty because the fuse of a shrapnel had gone right through
the door and the fireplace opposite.



"I specs so. His wife war de nicest and sweetest lady dat eber I did see. None ob yer airish,
stuck up folks, like a tarrapin carryin' eberything on its back. She used ter hab meetins fer
de mudders, an' larn us how to raise our chillen, an' talk so putty to de chillen. I sartinly
did lub dat woman."

"Where is she now?" asked Robert.

"De Conference moved dem 'bout thirty miles from yere. Deys gwine to hab a big meetin' ober
dere next Sunday. Don't you 'member dem meetins we used to hab in de woods? We don't hab to
hide like we did den. But it don't seem as ef de people had de same good 'ligion we had den.
'Pears like folks is took up wid makin' money an' politics."

"Well, Aunt Linda, don't you wish those good old days would come back?"

"No, chile; neber! neber! Wat fer you take me? I'd ruther lib in a corn-crib. Freedom needn't
keep me outer heben; an' ef I'se sich a fool as ter lose my 'ligion cause I'se free, I oughtn'
ter git dere."

"But, Aunt Linda, if old Miss were able to take care of you, wouldn't you just as leave be
back again?"

There was a faint quiver of indignation in Aunt Linda's voice, as she replied:--

"Don't yer want yer freedom? Well I wants ter pat my free foot. Halleluyah! But, Robby, I wants
yer ter go ter dat big meetin' de wuss kine."

"How will I get there?" asked Robert.

"Oh, dat's all right. My ole man's got two ob de nicest mules you eber set yer eyes on. It'll
jis' do yer good ter look at dem. I 'spect you'll see some ob yer ole frens dere. Dere's a
nice settlemen' of cullud folks ober dere, an' I wants yer to come an' bring dat young lady.
I wants dem folks to see wat nice folks I kin bring to de meetin'. I hope's yer didn't lose
all your 'ligion in de army."

"Oh, I hope not," replied Robert.

"Oh, chile, yer mus' be shore 'bout dat. I don't want yer to ride hope's hoss down to torment.
Now be shore an' come to-morrer an' bring dat young lady, an' take supper wid me. I'se all
on nettles to see dat chile."

CHAPTER XIX.

STRIKING CONTRASTS.

The next day, Robert, accompanied by Iola, went to the settlement to take supper with Aunt
Linda, and a very luscious affair it was. Her fingers had not lost their skill since she had
tasted the sweets of freedom. Her biscuits were just as light and flaky as ever. Her jelly
was as bright as amber, and her preserves were perfectly delicious. After she had set the table
she stood looking in silent admiration, chuckling to herself: "Ole Mistus can't set sich a
table as dat. She ought'er be yere to see it. Specs 'twould make her mouf water. Well, I mus'
let by-gones be by-gones. But dis yere freedom's mighty good."

Aunt Linda had invited Uncle Daniel, and, wishing to give him a pleasant surprise, she had
refrained from telling him that Robert Johnson was the one she wished him to meet.

"Do you know dis gemmen?" said Aunt Linda to Uncle Daniel, when the latter arrived.

"Well, I can't say's I do. My eyes is gittin dim, an I disremembers him."

"Now jis' you look right good at him. Don't yer 'member him?"

Uncle Daniel looked puzzled and, slowly scanning Robert's features, said: "He do look like
somebody I used ter know, but I can't make him out ter save my life. I don't know whar to place
him. Who is de gemmen, ennyhow?"

"Why, Uncle Dan'el," replied Aunt Linda, "dis is Robby; Miss Nancy's bad, mischeebous Robby,
dat war allers playin' tricks on me."

"Well, shore's I'se born, ef dis ain't our ole Bobby!" exclaimed Uncle Daniel, delightedly.
"Why, chile, whar did yer come from? Thought you war dead an' buried long 'go."

"Why, Uncle Daniel, did you send anybody to kill me?" asked Robert, laughingly.

"Oh, no'n 'deed, chile! but I yeard dat you war killed in de battle, an' I never 'spected ter
see you agin."

"Well, here I am," replied Robert, "large as life, and just as natural. And this young lady,
Uncle Daniel, I believe is my niece." As he spoke he turned to Iola. "Do you remember my mother?"

"Oh, yes," said Uncle Daniel, looking intently at Iola as she stepped forward and cordially
gave him her hand.

"Well, I firmly believe," continued Robert, "that this is the daughter of the little girl whom
Miss Nancy sold away with my mother."

"Well, I'se rale glad ter see her. She puts me mighty much in mine ob dem days wen we war all
young togedder; wen Miss Nancy sed, 'Harriet war too high fer her.' It jis' seems like yisterday
wen I yeard Miss Nancy say, 'No house could flourish whar dere war two mistresses.' Well, Mr.
Robert--"

"Oh, no, no, Uncle Daniel," interrupted Robert, "don't say that! Call me Robby or Bob, just
as you used to."

"Well, Bobby, I'se glad klar from de bottom of my heart ter see yer."

"Even if you wouldn't go with us when we left?"

"Oh, Bobby, dem war mighty tryin' times. You boys didn't know it, but Marster Robert hab giben
me a bag ob money ter take keer ob, an' I promised him I'd do it an' I had ter be ez good ez
my word."

"Oh, Uncle Daniel, why didn't you tell us boys all about it? We could have helped you take
care of it."

"Now, wouldn't dat hab bin smart ter let on ter you chaps, an' hab you huntin' fer it from
Dan ter Barsheba? I specs some ob you would bin a rootin' fer it yit!"

"Well, Uncle Daniel, we were young then; I can't tell what we would have done if we had found
it. But we are older now."

"Yes, yer older, but I wouldn't put it pas' yer eben now, ef yer foun' out whar it war."

"Yes," said Iola, laughing, "they say 'caution is the parent of safety.'"

"Money's a mighty tempting thing," said Robert, smiling.

"But, Robby, dere's nothin' like a klar conscience; a klar conscience, Robby!"

Just then Aunt Linda, who had been completing the preparations for her supper, entered the
room with her husband, and said, "Salters, let me interdoos you ter my fren', Mr. Robert Johnson,
an' his niece, Miss Leroy."

"Why, is it possible," exclaimed Robert, rising, and shaking hands, "that you are Aunt Linda's
husband?"

"Dat's what de parson sed," replied Salters.

"I thought," pursued Robert, "that your name was John Andrews. It was such when you were in
my company."

"All de use I'se got fer dat name is ter git my money wid it; an' wen dat's done, all's done.
Got 'nuff ob my ole Marster in slave times, widout wearin' his name in freedom. Wen I got done
wid him, I got done wid his name. Wen I 'listed, I war John Andrews; and wen I gits my pension,
I'se John Andrews; but now Salters is my name, an' I likes it better."

"But how came you to be Aunt Linda's husband? Did you get married since the war?"

"Lindy an' me war married long 'fore de war. But my ole Marster sole me away from her an' our
little gal, an' den sole her chile ter somebody else. Arter freedom, I hunted up our little
gal, an' foun' her. She war a big woman den. Den I com'd right back ter dis place an' foun'
Lindy. She hedn't married agin, nuther hed I; so we jis' let de parson marry us out er de book;
an' we war mighty glad ter git togedder agin, an' feel hitched togedder fer life."

"Well, Uncle Daniel," said Robert, turning the conversation toward him, "you and Uncle Ben
wouldn't go with us, but you came out all right at last."

"Yes, indeed," said Aunt Linda, "Ben got inter a stream of luck. Arter freedom com'd, de people
had a heap of fath in Ben; an' wen dey wanted some one to go ter Congress dey jist voted for
Ben ter go. An' he went, too. An' wen Salters went to Washin'ton to git his pension, who should
he see dere wid dem big men but our Ben, lookin' jist as big as any ob dem."

"An' it did my ole eyes good jist ter see it," broke in Salters; "if I couldn't go dere myself,
I war mighty glad to see some one ob my people dat could. I felt like de boy who, wen somebody
said he war gwine to slap off his face, said, 'Yer kin slap off my face, but I'se got a big
brudder, an' you can't slap off his face.' I went to see him 'fore I lef, and he war jist de
same as he war wen we war boys togedder. He hadn't got de big head a bit."

"I reckon Mirandy war mighty sorry she didn't stay wid him. I know I should be," said Aunt Linda.

"Uncle Daniel," asked Robert, "are you still preaching?"

"Yes, chile, I'se still firing off de Gospel gun."

"I hear some of the Northern folks are down here teaching theology, that is, teaching young
men how to preach. Why don't you study theology?"

"Look a yere, boy, I'se been a preachin' dese thirty years, an' you come yere a tellin' me
'bout studying yore ologies. I larn'd my 'ology at de foot ob de cross. You bin dar?"

"Dear Uncle Daniel," said Iola, "the moral aspect of the nation would be changed if it would
learn at the same cross to subordinate the spirit of caste to the spirit of Christ."

"Does yer 'member Miss Nancy's Harriet," asked Aunt Linda, "dat she sole away kase she wouldn't
let her whip her? Well, we think dis is Harriet's gran'chile. She war sole away from her mar,
an' now she's a lookin' fer her."

"Well, I hopes she may fine her," replied Salters. "I war sole 'way from my mammy wen I war
eighteen mont's ole, an' I wouldn't know her now from a bunch ob turnips."

"I," said Iola, "am on my way South seeking for my mother, and I shall not give up until I
find her."

"Come," said Aunt Linda, "we mustn't stan' yer talkin', or de grub'll git cole. Come, frens,
sit down, an' eat some ob my pore supper."

Aunt Linda sat at the table in such a flutter of excitement that she could hardly eat, but
she gazed with intense satisfaction on her guests. Robert sat on her right hand, contrasting
Aunt Linda's pleasant situation with the old days in Mrs. Johnson's kitchen, where he had played
his pranks upon her, and told her the news of the war.

Over Iola there stole a spirit of restfulness. There was something so motherly in Aunt Linda's
manner that it seemed to recall the bright, sunshiny days when she used to nestle in Mam Liza's
arms, in her own happy home. The conversation was full of army reminiscences and recollections
of the days of slavery. Uncle Daniel was much interested, and, as they rose from the table,
exclaimed:--

"Robby, seein' yer an' hearin' yer talk, almos' puts new springs inter me. I feel 'mos' like
I war gittin' younger."

After the supper, Salters and his guests returned to the front room, which Aunt Linda regarded
with so much pride, and on which she bestowed so much care.

"Well, Captin," said Salters, "I neber 'spected ter see you agin. Do you know de las' time
I seed yer? Well, you war on a stretcher, an' four ob us war carryin' you ter de hospital.
War you much hurt?

"No," replied Robert, "it was only a flesh wound; and this young lady nursed me so carefully
that I soon got over it."

"Is dat de way you foun' her?"

"Yes, Andrews,"--

"Salters, ef you please," interrupted Salters. I'se only Andrews wen I gits my money."

"Well, Salters," continued Robert, "our freedom was a costly thing. Did you know that Captain
Sybil was killed in one of the last battles of the war? These young chaps, who are taking it
so easy, don't know the hardships through which we older ones passed. But all the battles are
not fought, nor all the victories won. The colored man has escaped from one slavery, and I
don't want him to fall into another. I want the young folks to keep their brains clear, and
their right arms strong, to fight the battles of life manfully, and take their places alongside
of every other people in this country. And I cannot see what is to hinder them if they get
a chance."

"I don't nuther," said Salters. "I don't see dat dey drinks any more dan anybody else, nor
dat dere is any meanness or debilment dat a black man kin do dat a white man can't keep step
wid him."

"Yes," assented Robert, "but while a white man is stealing a thousand dollars, a black man
is getting into trouble taking a few chickens."

"All that may be true," said Iola, "but there are some things a white man can do that we cannot
afford to do."

"I beliebs eberybody, Norf and Souf, is lookin' at us; an' some ob dem ain't got no good blood
fer us, nohow you fix it," said Salters.

"I specs cullud folks mus' hab done somethin'," interposed Aunt Linda.

"O, nonsense," said Robert. "I don't think they are any worse than the white people. I don't
believe, if we had the power, we would do any more lynching, burning, and murdering than they do."

"Dat's so," said Aunt Linda, "it's ralely orful how our folks hab been murdered sence de war.
But I don't think dese young folks is goin' ter take things as we's allers done."

"We war cowed down from the beginnin'," said Uncle Daniel, "but dese young folks ain't comin'
up dat way."

"No," said Salters, "fer one night arter some ob our pore people had been killed, an' some
ob our women had run'd away 'bout seventeen miles, my gran'son, looking me squar in de face,
said: 'Ain't you got five fingers? Can't you pull a trigger as well as a white man?' I tell
yer, Cap, dat jis' got to me, an' I made up my mine dat my boy should neber call me a coward."

"It is not to be expected," said Robert, "that these young people are going to put up with
things as we did, when we weren't permitted to hold a meeting by ourselves, or to own a club
or learn to read."

"I tried," said Salters, "to git a little out'er de book wen I war in de army. On Sundays I
sometimes takes a book an' tries to make out de words, but my eyes is gittin' dim an' de letters
all run togedder, an' I gits sleepy, an' ef yer wants to put me to sleep jis' put a book in
my han'. But wen it comes to gittin' out a stan' ob cotton, an' plantin' corn, I'se dere all
de time. But dat gran'son ob mine is smart as a steel trap. I specs he'll be a preacher."

Salters looked admiringly at his grandson, who sat grinning in the corner, munching a pear
he had brought from the table.

"Yes," said Aunt Linda, "his fadder war killed by the Secesh, one night, comin' home from a
politic meetin', an' his pore mudder died a few weeks arter, an' we mean to make a man ob him."

"He's got to larn to work fust," said Salters, "an' den ef he's right smart I'se gwine ter
sen' him ter college. An' ef he can't get a libin' one way, he kin de oder."

"Yes," said Iola, "I hope he will turn out an excellent young man, for the greatest need of
the race is noble, earnest men, and true women."

"Job," said Salters, turning to his grandson, "tell Jake ter hitch up de mules, an' you stay
dere an' help him. We's all gwine ter de big meetin'. Yore grandma hab set her heart on goin',
an' it'll be de same as a spell ob sickness ef she don't hab a chance to show her bes' bib
an' tucker. That ole gal's as proud as a peacock."

"Now, John Salters," exclaimed Aunt Linda, "ain't you 'shamed ob yourself? Allers tryin' to
poke fun at yer pore wife. Never mine; wait till I'se gone, an' you'll miss me."

"Ef I war single," said Salters, "I could git a putty young gal, but it wouldn't be so easy
wid you."

"Why not?" said Iola, smiling.

"'Cause young men don't want ole hens, an' ole men want young pullets," was Salter's reply.

"Robby, honey," said Aunt Linda, "when you gits a wife, don't treat her like dat man treats me."

"Oh, his head's level," answered Robert; "at least it was in the army."

"Dat's jis' de way; you see dat, Miss Iola? One man takin' up for de oder. But I'll be eben
wid you bof. I must go now an' git ready."

Iola laughed. The homely enjoyment of that evening was very welcome to her after the trying
scenes through which she had passed. Further conversation was interrupted by the appearance
of the wagon, drawn by two fine mules. John Salters stopped joking his wife to admire his mules.

"Jis' look at dem," he said. "Ain't dey beauties? I bought 'em out ob my bounty-money. Arter
de war war ober I had a little money, an' I war gwine ter rent a plantation on sheers an' git
out a good stan' ob cotton. Cotton war bringin' orful high prices den, but Lindy said to me,
'Now, John, you'se got a lot ob money, an' you'd better salt it down. I'd ruther lib on a little
piece ob lan' ob my own dan a big piece ob somebody else's. Well, I says to Lindy, I dun know
nuthin' 'bout buyin' lan', an' I'se 'fraid arter I'se done buyed it an' put all de marrer ob
dese bones in it, dat somebody's far-off cousin will come an' say de title ain't good, an'
I'll lose it all."

"You're right thar, John," said Uncle Daniel. "White man's so unsartain, black man's nebber safe."

"But somehow," continued Salters, "Lindy warn't satisfied wid rentin', so I buyed a piece ob
lan', an' I'se glad now I'se got it. Lindy's got a lot ob gumption; knows most as much as a
man. She ain't got dat long head fer nuffin. She's got lots ob sense, but I don't like to tell
her so."

"Why not?" asked Iola. "Do you think it would make her feel too happy?"

"Well, it don't do ter tell you women how much we thinks ob you. It sets you up too much. Ole
Gundover's overseer war my marster, an' he used ter lib in dis bery house. I'se fixed it up
sence I'se got it. Now I'se better off dan he is, 'cause he tuck to drink, an' all his frens
is gone, an' he's in de pore-house."

Just then Linda came to the door with her baskets.

"Now, Lindy, ain't you ready yet? Do hurry up."

"Yes, I'se ready, but things wouldn't go right ef you didn't hurry me."

"Well, put your chicken fixins an' cake right in yere. Captin, you'll ride wid me, an' de young
lady an' my ole woman'll take de back seat. Uncle Dan'el, dere's room for you ef you'll go."

"No, I thank you. It's time fer ole folks to go to bed. Good night! An', Bobby, I hopes to
see you agin'."

CHAPTER XX.

A REVELATION.

It was a lovely evening for the journey. The air was soft and balmy. The fields and hedges
were redolent with flowers. Not a single cloud obscured the brightness of the moon or the splendor
of the stars. The ancient trees were festooned with moss, which hung like graceful draperies.
Ever and anon a startled hare glided over the path, and whip-poor-wills and crickets broke
the restful silence of the night. Robert rode quietly along, quaffing the beauty of the scene
and thinking of his boyish days, when he gathered nuts and wild plums in those woods; he also
indulged pleasant reminiscences of later years, when, with Uncle Daniel and Tom Anderson, he
attended the secret prayer-meetings. Iola rode along, conversing with Aunt Linda, amused and
interested at the quaintness of her speech and the shrewdness of her intellect. To her the
ride was delightful.

"Does yer know dis place, Robby," asked Aunt Linda, as they passed an old resort.

"I should think I did," replied Robert. "It is the place where we held our last prayer-meeting."

"An' dere's dat ole broken pot we used, ter tell 'bout de war. But warn't ole Miss hoppin'
wen she foun' out you war goin' to de war! I thought she'd go almos' wile. Now, own up, Robby,
didn't you feel kine ob mean to go off widout eben biddin' her good bye? An' I ralely think
ole Miss war fon' ob yer. Now, own up, honey, didn't yer feel a little down in de mouf wen
yer lef' her."

"Not much," responded Robert. "I only thought she was getting paid back for selling my mother."

"Dat's so, Robby! yore mudder war a likely gal, wid long black hair, an' kine ob ginger-bread
color. An' you neber hearn tell ob her sence dey sole her to Georgia?"

"Never," replied Robert, "but I would give everything I have on earth to see her once more.
I do hope, if she is living, that I may meet her before I die."

"You's right, boy, cause she lub'd you as she lub'd her own life. Many a time hes she set in
my ole cabin an' cried 'bout yer wen you war fas' asleep. It's all ober now, but I'se gwine
to hole up fer dem Yankees dat gib me my freedom, an' sent dem nice ladies from de Norf to
gib us some sense. Some ob dese folks calls em nigger teachers, an' won't hab nuffin to do
wid 'em, but I jis' thinks dey's splendid. But dere's some triflin' niggers down yere who'll
sell der votes for almost nuffin. Does you 'member Jake Williams an' Gundover's Tom? Well dem
two niggers is de las' ob pea-time. Dey's mighty small pertaters an' few in a hill."

"Oh, Aunt Linda," said Robert, "don't call them niggers. They are our own people."

"Dey ain't my kine ob people. I jis' calls em niggers, an' niggers I means; an' de bigges'
kine ob niggers. An' if my John war sich a nigger I'd whip him an' leave him."

"An' what would I be a doin'," queried John, suddenly rousing up at the mention of his name.

"Standing still and taking it, I suppose," said Iola, who had been quietly listening to and
enjoying the conversation.

"Yes, an' I'd ketch myself stan'in' still an' takin' it," was John's plucky response.

"Well, you oughter, ef you's mean enough to wote dat ticket ter put me back inter slavery,"
was Aunt Linda's parting shot. "Robby," she continued, "you 'member Miss Nancy's Jinnie?"

"Of course I do," said Robert.

"She married Mr. Gundover's Dick. Well, dere warn't much git up an' go 'bout him. So, wen 'lection
time com'd, de man he war workin' fer tole him ef he woted de radical ticket he'd turn him
off. Well, Jinnie war so 'fraid he'd do it, dat she jis' follered him fer days."

"Poor fellow!" exclaimed Robert. "How did he come out?"

"He certainly was between two fires," interposed Iola.

"Oh, Jinnie gained de day. Jake Williams went on de Secesh side, woted whar he thought he'd
git his taters, but he got fooled es slick es greese."

"How was that?" asked Robert.

"Some ob dem folks, dat I 'spects buyed his wote, sent him some flour an' sugar. So one night
his wife hab company ter tea. Dey made a big spread, an' put a lot ob sugar on de table fer
supper, an' Tom jis' went fer dat sugar. He put a lot in his tea. But somehow it didn't tase
right, an' wen dey come ter fine out what war de matter, dey hab sent him a barrel ob san'
wid some sugar on top, an' wen de sugar war all gone de san' war dare. Wen I yeard it, I jis'
split my sides a larfin. It war too good to keep; an' wen it got roun', Jake war as mad as
a March hare. But it sarved him right."

"Well, Aunt Linda, you musn't be too hard on Uncle Jake; you know he's getting old."

"Well he ain't too ole ter do right. He ain't no older dan Uncle Dan'el. An' I yered dey offered
him $500 ef he'd go on dere side. An' Uncle Dan'el wouldn't tech it. An' dere's Uncle Job's
wife; why didn't she go dat way? She war down on Job's meanness."

"What did she do?"

"Wen 'lection time 'rived, he com'd home bringing some flour an' meat; an' he says ter Aunt
Polly, 'Ole woman, I got dis fer de wote.' She jis' picked up dat meat an' flour an' sent it
sailin' outer doors, an' den com'd back an' gib him a good tongue-lashin'. 'Oder people,' she
said, 'a wotin' ter lib good, an' you a sellin' yore wote! Ain't you got 'nuff ob ole Marster,
an' ole Marster bin cuttin' you up? It shan't stay yere.' An' so she wouldn't let de things
stay in de house."

"What did Uncle Job do?"

"He jis' stood dere an' cried."

"And didn't you feel sorry for him?" asked Iola.

"Not a bit! he hedn't no business ter be so shabby."

"But, Aunt Linda," pursued Iola, "if it were shabby for an ignorant colored man to sell his
vote, wasn't it shabbier for an intelligent white man to buy it?"

"You see," added Robert, "all the shabbiness is not on our side."

"I knows dat," said Aunt Linda, "but I can't help it. I wants my people to wote right, an'
to think somethin' ob demselves."

"Well, Aunt Linda, they say in every flock of sheep there will be one that's scabby," observed
Iola.

"Dat's so! But I ain't got no use fer scabby sheep."

"Lindy," cried John, "we's most dar! Don't you yere dat singin'? Dey's begun a'ready."

"Neber mine," said Aunt Linda, "sometimes de las' ob de wine is de bes'."

Thus discoursing they had beguiled the long hours of the night and made their long journey
appear short.

Very soon they reached the church, a neat, commodious, frame building, with a blue ceiling,
white walls within and without, and large windows with mahogany-colored facings. It was a sight
full of pathetic interest to see that group which gathered from miles around. They had come
to break bread with each other, relate their experiences, and tell of their hopes of heaven.
In that meeting were remnants of broken families--mothers who had been separated from their
children before the war, husbands who had not met their wives for years. After the bread had
been distributed and the handshaking was nearly over, Robert raised the hymn which Iola had
sung for him when he was recovering from his wounds, and Iola, with her clear, sweet tones,
caught up the words and joined him in the strain. When the hymn was finished a dear old mother
rose from her seat. Her voice was quite strong. With still a lingering light and fire in her
eye, she said:--

"I rise, bredren an' sisters, to say I'm on my solemn march to glory."

"Amen!" "Glory!" came from a number of voices.

"I'se had my trials an' temptations, my ups an' downs; but I feels I'll soon be in one ob de
many mansions. If it hadn't been for dat hope I 'spects I would have broken down long ago.
I'se bin through de deep waters, but dey didn't overflow me; I'se bin in de fire, but de smell
ob it isn't on my garments. Bredren an' sisters, it war a drefful time when I war tored away
from my pore little chillen."

"Dat's so!" exclaimed a chorus of voices. Some of her hearers moaned, others rocked to and
fro, as thoughts of similar scenes in their own lives arose before them.

"When my little girl," continued the speaker, "took hole ob my dress an' begged me ter let
her go wid me, an' I couldn't do it, it mos' broke my heart. I had a little boy, an' wen my
mistus sole me she kep' him. She carried on a boardin' house. Many's the time I hab stole out
at night an' seen dat chile an' sleep'd wid him in my arms tell mos' day. Bimeby de people
I libed wid got hard up fer money, an' dey sole me one way an' my pore little gal de oder;
an' I neber laid my eyes on my pore chillen sence den. But, honeys, let de wind blow high or
low, I 'spects to outwedder de storm an' anchor by'm bye in bright glory. But I'se bin a prayin'
fer one thing, an' I beliebs I'll git it; an' dat is dat I may see my chillen 'fore I die.
Pray fer me dat I may hole out an' hole on, an' neber make a shipwrack ob faith, an' at las'
fine my way from earth to glory."

Having finished her speech, she sat down and wiped away the tears that flowed all the more
copiously as she remembered her lost children. When she rose to speak her voice and manner
instantly arrested Robert's attention. He found his mind reverting to the scenes of his childhood.
As she proceeded his attention became riveted on her. Unbidden tears filled his eyes and great
sobs shook his frame. He trembled in every limb. Could it be possible that after years of patient
search through churches, papers, and inquiring friends, he had accidentally stumbled on his
mother--the mother who, long years ago, had pillowed his head upon her bosom and left her parting
kiss upon his lips? How should he reveal himself to her? Might not sudden joy do what years
of sorrow had failed to accomplish? Controlling his feelings as best he could, he rose to tell
his experience. He referred to the days when they used to hold their meetings in the lonely
woods and gloomy swamps. How they had prayed for freedom and plotted to desert to the Union
army; and continuing, he said: "Since then, brethren and sisters, I have had my crosses and
trials, but I try to look at the mercies. Just think what it was then and what it is now! How
many of us, since freedom has come, have been looking up our scattered relatives. I have just
been over to visit my old mistress, Nancy Johnson, and to see if I could get some clue to my
long-lost mother, who was sold from me nearly thirty years ago."

Again there was a chorus of moans.

On resuming, Robert's voice was still fuller of pathos.

"When," he said, "I heard that dear old mother tell her experience it seemed as if some one
had risen from the dead. She made me think of my own dear mother, who used to steal out at
night to see me, fold me in her arms, and then steal back again to her work. After she was
sold away I never saw her face again by daylight. I have been looking for her ever since the
war, and I think at last I have got on the right track. If Mrs. Johnson, who kept the boarding-house
in C----, is the one who sold that dear old mother from her son, then she is the one I am looking
for, and I am the son she has been praying for."

The dear old mother raised her eyes. They were clear and tearless. An expression of wonder,
hope, and love flitted over her face. It seemed as if her youth were suddenly renewed and,
bounding from her seat, she rushed to the speaker in a paroxysm of joy. "Oh, Robby! Robby!
is dis you? Is dat my pore, dear boy I'se been prayin' 'bout all dese years? Oh, glory! glory!"
And overflowing with joyous excitement she threw her arms around him, looking the very impersonation
of rapturous content. It was a happy time. Mothers whose children had been torn from them in
the days of slavery knew how to rejoice in her joy. The young people caught the infection of
the general happiness and rejoiced with them that rejoiced. There were songs of rejoicing and
shouts of praise. The undertone of sadness which had so often mingled with their songs gave
place to strains of exultation; and tears of tender sympathy flowed from eyes which had often
been blurred by anguish. The child of many prayers and tears was restored to his mother.

Iola stood by the mother's side, smiling, and weeping tears of joy. When Robert's mother observed
Iola, she said to Robert, "Is dis yore wife?"

"Oh, no," replied Robert, "but I believe she is your grandchild, the daughter of the little
girl who was sold away from you so long ago. She is on her way to the farther South in search
of her mother."

"Is she? Dear chile! I hope she'll fine her! She puts me in mine ob my pore little Marie. Well,
I'se got one chile, an' I means to keep on prayin' tell I fine my daughter. I'm so happy! I
feel's like a new woman!"

"My dear mother," said Robert, "now that I have found you, I mean to hold you fast just as
long as you live. Ever since the war I have been trying to find out if you were living, but
all efforts failed. At last, I thought I would come and hunt you myself and, now that I have
found you, I am going to take you home to live with me, and to be as happy as the days are
long. I am living in the North, and doing a good business there. I want you to see joy according
to all the days wherein you have seen sorrow. I do hope this young lady will find her ma and
that, when found, she will prove to be your daughter!"

"Yes, pore, dear chile! I specs her mudder's heart's mighty hungry fer her. I does hope she's
my gran'chile."

Tenderly and caressingly Iola bent over the happy mother, with her heart filled with mournful
memories of her own mother.

Aunt Linda was induced to stay until the next morning, and then gladly assisted Robert's mother
in arranging for her journey northward. The friends who had given her a shelter in their hospitable
home, learned to value her so much that it was with great reluctance they resigned her to the
care of her son. Aunt Linda was full of bustling activity, and her spirits overflowed with
good humor.

"Now, Harriet," she said, as they rode along on their return journey, "you mus' jis' thank
me fer finin' yore chile, 'cause I got him to come to dat big meetin' wid me."

"Oh, Lindy," she cried, "I'se glad from de bottom ob my heart ter see you's all. I com'd out
dere ter git a blessin', an' I'se got a double po'tion. De frens I war libin' wid war mighty
good ter me. Dey lib'd wid me in de lower kentry, an' arter de war war ober I stopped wid 'em
and helped take keer ob de chillen; an' when dey com'd up yere dey brought me wid 'em. I'se
com'd a way I didn't know, but I'se mighty glad I'se com'd."

"Does you know dis place?" asked Aunt Linda, as they approached the settlement.

"No'n 'deed I don't. It's all new ter me."

"Well, dis is whar I libs. Ain't you mighty tired? I feels a little stiffish. Dese bones is
gittin' ole."

"Dat's so! But I'se mighty glad I'se lib'd to see my boy 'fore I crossed ober de riber. An'
now I feel like ole Simeon."

"But, mother," said Robert, "if you are ready to go, I am not willing to let you. I want you
to stay ever so long where I can see you."

A bright smile overspread her face. Robert's words reassured and gladdened her heart. She was
well satisfied to have a pleasant aftermath from life on this side of the river.

After arriving home Linda's first thought was to prepare dinner for her guests. But, before
she began her work of preparation, she went to the cupboard to get a cup of home-made wine.

"Here," she said, filling three glasses, "is some wine I made myself from dat grape-vine out
dere. Don't it look nice and clar? Jist taste it. It's fus'rate."

"No, thank you," said Robert. "I'm a temperance man, and never take anything which has alcohol
in it."

"Oh, dis ain't got a bit ob alcohol in it. I made it myself."

"But, Aunt Linda, you didn't make the law which ferments grape-juice and makes it alcohol."

"But, Robby, ef alcohol's so bad, w'at made de Lord put it here?"

"Aunt Lindy," said Iola, "I heard a lady say that there were two things the Lord didn't make.
One is sin, and the other alcohol."

"Why, Aunt Linda," said Robert, "there are numbers of things the Lord has made that I wouldn't
touch with a pair of tongs."

"What are they?"

"Rattlesnakes, scorpions, and moccasins."

"Oh, sho!"

"Aunt Linda," said Iola, "the Bible says that the wine at last will bite like a serpent and
sting like an adder."

"And, Aunt Linda," added Robert, "as I wouldn't wind a serpent around my throat, I don't want
to put something inside of it which will bite like a serpent and sting as an adder."

"I reckon Robby's right," said his mother, setting down her glass and leaving the wine unfinished.
"You young folks knows a heap more dan we ole folks." "Well," declared Aunt Linda, "you all
is temp'rence to de backbone. But what could I do wid my wine ef we didn't drink it?"

"Let it turn to vinegar, and sign the temperance pledge," replied Robert.

"I don't keer 'bout it myself, but I don't 'spect John would be willin' ter let it go, 'cause
he likes it a heap."

"Then you must give it up for his sake and Job's," said Robert. "They may learn to like it
too well."

"You know, Aunt Linda," said Iola, "people don't get to be drunkards all at once. And you wouldn't
like to feel, if Job should learn to drink, that you helped form his appetite."

"Dat' so! I beliebs I'll let dis turn to winegar, an' not make any more."

"That's right, Aunt Linda. I hope you'll hold to it," said Robert, encouragingly.

Very soon Aunt Linda had an excellent dinner prepared. After it was over Robert went with Iola
to C----, where her friend, the bishop, was awaiting her return. She told him the wonderful
story of Robert's finding his mother, and of her sweet, childlike faith.

The bishop, a kind, fatherly man, said, "Miss Iola, I hope that such happiness is in store
for you. My dear child, still continue to pray and trust. I am old-fashioned enough to believe
in prayer. I knew an old lady living in Illinois, who was a slave. Her son got a chance to
come North and beg money to buy his mother. The mother was badly treated, and made up her mind
to run away. But before she started she thought she would kneel down to pray. And something,
she said, reasoned within her, and whispered, 'Stand still and see what I am going to do for
you.' So real was it to her that she unpacked her bundle and desisted from her flight. Strange
as it may appear to you, her son returned, bringing with him money enough to purchase her freedom,
and she was redeemed from bondage. Had she persisted in running away she might have been lost
in the woods and have died, exhausted by starvation. But she believed, she trusted, and was
delivered. Her son took her North, where she could find a resting place for the soles of her feet."

That night Iola and the bishop left for the South.

CHAPTER XXI.

A HOME FOR MOTHER.

After Iola had left the settlement, accompanied by Robert as far as the town, it was a pleasant
satisfaction for the two old friends to settle themselves down, and talk of times past, departed
friends, and long-forgotten scenes.

"What," said Mrs. Johnson, as we shall call Robert's mother, "hab become ob Miss Nancy's husband?
Is he still a libin'?"

"Oh, he drunk hisself to death," responded Aunt Linda.

"He used ter be mighty handsome."

"Yes, but drink war his ruination."

"An' how's Miss Nancy?"

"Oh, she's com'd down migh'ly. She's pore as a church mouse. I thought 'twould com'd home ter
her wen she sole yer 'way from yore chillen. Dere's nuffin goes ober de debil's back dat don't
come under his belly. Do yo 'member Miss Nancy's fardder?"

"Ob course I does!"

"Well," said Aunt Linda, "he war a nice ole gemmen. Wen he died, I said de las' gemmen's dead,
an' dere's noboddy ter step in his shoes."

"Pore Miss Nancy!" exclaimed Robert's mother. "I ain't nothin' agin her. But I wouldn't swap
places wid her, 'cause I'se got my son; an' I beliebs he'll do a good part by me."

"Mother," said Robert, as he entered the room, "I've brought an old friend to see you. Do you
remember Uncle Daniel?"

Uncle Daniel threw back his head, reached out his hand, and manifested his joy with "Well,
Har'yet! is dis you? I neber 'spected to see you in dese lower grouns! How does yer do? an'
whar hab you bin all dis time?"

"O, I'se been tossin' roun' 'bout; but it's all com'd right at las'. I'se lib'd to see my boy
'fore I died."

"My wife an' boys is in glory," said Uncle Daniel. "But I 'spects to see 'em 'fore long. 'Cause
I'se tryin' to dig deep, build sure, an' make my way from earth ter glory."

"Dat's de right kine ob talk, Dan'el. We ole folks ain't got long ter stay yere."

They chatted together until Job and Salters came home for supper. After they had eaten, Uncle
Daniel said:--

"We'll hab a word ob prayer."

There, in that peaceful habitation, they knelt down, and mingled their prayers together, as
they had done in by-gone days, when they had met by stealth in lonely swamps or silent forests.

The next morning Robert and his mother started northward. They were well supplied with a bountiful
luncheon by Aunt Linda, who had so thoroughly enjoyed their sojourn with her. On the next day
he arrived in the city of P----, and took his mother to his boarding-house, until he could
find a suitable home into which to install her. He soon came across one which just suited his
taste, but when the agent discovered that Robert's mother was colored, he told him that the
house had been previously engaged. In company with his mother he looked at several other houses
in desirable neighborhoods, but they were constantly met with the answer, "The house is engaged,"
or, "We do not rent to colored people."

At length Robert went alone, and, finding a desirable house, engaged it, and moved into it.
In a short time it was discovered that he was colored, and, at the behest of the local sentiment
of the place, the landlord used his utmost endeavors to oust him, simply because he belonged
to an unfashionable and unpopular race. At last he came across a landlord who was broad enough
to rent him a good house, and he found a quiet resting place among a set of well-to-do and
well-disposed people.

CHAPTER XXII.

FURTHER LIFTING OF THE VEIL.

In one of those fearful conflicts by which the Mississippi was freed from Rebel intrusion and
opened to commerce Harry was severely wounded, and forced to leave his place in the ranks for
a bed in the hospital.

One day, as he lay in his bed, thinking of his former home in Mississippi and wondering if
the chances of war would ever restore him to his loved ones, he fell into a quiet slumber.
When he awoke he found a lady bending over him, holding in her hands some fruit and flowers.
As she tenderly bent over Harry's bed their eyes met, and with a thrill of gladness they recognized
each other.

"Oh, my son, my son!" cried Marie, trying to repress her emotion, as she took his wasted hand
in hers, and kissed the pale cheeks that sickness and suffering had blanched. Harry was very
weak, but her presence was a call to life. He returned the pressure of her hand, kissed it,
and his eyes grew full of sudden light, as he murmured faintly, but joyfully:--

"Mamma; oh, mamma! have I found you at last?"

The effort was too much, and he immediately became unconscious.

Anxious, yet hopeful, Marie sat by the bedside of her son till consciousness was restored.
Caressingly she bent over his couch, murmuring in her happiness the tenderest, sweetest words
of motherly love. In Harry's veins flowed new life and vigor, calming the restlessness of his
nerves.

As soon as possible Harry was carried to his mother's home; a home brought into the light of
freedom by the victories of General Grant. Nursed by his mother's tender, loving care, he rapidly
recovered, but, being too disabled to re-enter the army, he was honorably discharged.

Lorraine had taken Marie to Vicksburg, and there allowed her to engage in confectionery and
preserving for the wealthy ladies of the city. He had at first attempted to refugee with her
in Texas, but, being foiled in the attempt, he was compelled to enlist in the Confederate Army,
and met his fate by being killed just before the surrender of Vicksburg.

"My dear son," Marie would say, as she bent fondly over him, "I am deeply sorry that you are
wounded, but I am glad that the fortunes of war have brought us together. Poor Iola! I do wonder
what has become of her? Just as soon as this war is over I want you to search the country all
over. Poor child! How my heart has ached for her!"

Time passed on. Harry and his mother searched and inquired for Iola, but no tidings of her
reached them.

Having fully recovered his health, and seeing the great need of education for the colored people,
Harry turned his attention toward them, and joined the new army of Northern teachers.

He still continued his inquiries for his sister, not knowing whether or not she had succumbed
to the cruel change in her life. He thought she might have passed into the white basis for
the sake of bettering her fortunes. Hope deferred, which had sickened his mother's heart, had
only roused him to renewed diligence.

A school was offered him in Georgia, and thither he repaired, taking his mother with him. They
were soon established in the city of A----. In hope of finding Iola he visited all the conferences
of the Methodist Church, but for a long time his search was in vain.

"Mamma," said Harry, one day during his vacation, "there is to be a Methodist Conference in
this State in the city of S----, about one hundred and fifty miles from here. I intend to go
and renew my search for Iola."

"Poor child!" burst out Marie, as the tears gathered in her eyes, "I wonder if she is living."

"I think so," said Harry, kissing the pale cheek of his mother; "I don't feel that Iola is
dead. I believe we will find her before long."

"It seems to me my heart would burst with joy to see my dear child just once more. I am glad
that you are going. When will you leave?"

"To-morrow morning."

"Well, my son, go, and my prayers will go with you," was Marie's tender parting wish.

Early next morning Harry started for the conference, and reached the church before the morning
session was over. Near him sat two ladies, one fair, the other considerably darker. There was
something in the fairer one that reminded him forcibly of his sister, but she was much older
and graver than he imagined his sister to be. Instantly he dismissed the thought that had forced
itself into his mind, and began to listen attentively to the proceedings of the conference.

When the regular business of the morning session was over the bishop arose and said:--

"I have an interesting duty to perform. I wish to introduce a young lady to the conference,
who was the daughter of a Mississippi planter. She is now in search of her mother and brother,
from whom she was sold a few months before the war. Her father married her mother in Ohio,
where he had taken her to be educated. After his death they were robbed of their inheritance
and enslaved by a distant relative named Lorraine. Miss Iola Leroy is the young lady's name.
If any one can give the least information respecting the objects of her search it will be thankfully
received."

"I can," exclaimed a young man, rising in the midst of the audience, and pressing eagerly,
almost impetuously, forward. "I am her brother, and I came here to look for her."

Iola raised her eyes to his face, so flushed and bright with the glow of recognition, rushed
to him, threw her arms around his neck, kissed him again and again, crying: "O, Harry!" Then
she fainted from excitement. The women gathered around her with expressions of tender sympathy,
and gave her all the care she needed. They called her the "dear child," for without any effort
on her part she had slidden into their hearts and found a ready welcome in each sympathizing bosom.

Harry at once telegraphed the glad tidings to his mother, who waited their coming with joyful
anticipation. Long before the cars reached the city, Mrs. Leroy was at the depot, restlessly
walking the platform or eagerly peering into the darkness to catch the first glimpse of the
train which was bearing her treasures.

At length the cars arrived, and, as Harry and Iola alighted, Marie rushed forward, clasped
Iola in her arms and sobbed out her joy in broken words.

Very happy was the little family that sat together around the supper-table for the first time
for years. They partook of that supper with thankful hearts and with eyes overflowing with
tears of joy. Very touching were the prayers the mother uttered, when she knelt with her children
that night to return thanks for their happy reunion, and to seek protection through the slumbers
of the night.

The next morning, as they sat at the breakfast-table, Marie said:

"My dear child, you are so changed I do not think I would have known you if I had met you in
the street!"

"And I," said Harry, "can hardly realize that you are our own Iola, whom I recognized as sister
a half dozen years ago."

"Am I so changed?" asked Iola, as a faint sigh escaped her lips.

"Why, Iola," said Harry, "you used to be the most harum-scarum girl I ever knew, laughing,
dancing, and singing from morning until night."

"Yes, I remember," said Iola. "It all comes back to me like a dream. Oh, mamma! I have passed
through a fiery ordeal of suffering since then. But it is useless," and as she continued her
face assumed a brighter look, "to brood over the past. Let us be happy in the present. Let
me tell you something which will please you. Do you remember telling me about your mother and
brother?"

"Yes," said Marie, in a questioning tone."

"Well," continued Iola, with eyes full of gladness, "I think I have found them."

"Can it be possible!" exclaimed Marie, in astonishment. "It is more than thirty years since
we parted. I fear you are mistaken."

"No, mamma; I have drawn my conclusions from good circumstantial evidence. After I was taken
from you, I passed through a fearful siege of suffering, which would only harrow up your soul
to hear. I often shudder at the remembrance. The last man in whose clutches I found myself
was mean, brutal, and cruel. I was in his power when the Union army came into C----, where
I was living. A number of colored men stampeded to the Union ranks, with a gentleman as a leader,
whom I think is your brother. A friend of his reported my case to the commander of the post,
who instantly gave orders for my release. A place was given me as nurse in the hospital. I
attended that friend in his last illness. Poor fellow! he was the best friend I had in all
the time I have been tossing about. The gentleman whom I think is your brother appeared to
be very anxious about his friend's recovery, and was deeply affected by his death. In one of
the last terrible battles of the war, that of Five Forks, he was wounded and put into the hospital
ward where I was an attendant. For awhile he was delirious, and in his delirium he would sometimes
think that I was his mother and at other times his sister. I humored his fancies, would often
sing to him when he was restless, and my voice almost invariably soothed him to sleep.

"I remember," said Marie, with a sigh, as memories of the past swept over her.

"After I had finished the hymn," continued Iola, "he looked earnestly and inquiringly into
my face, and asked, 'Where did you learn that hymn? I have heard my mother sing it when I was
a boy, but I have never heard it since.' I think, mamma, the words, 'I was lost but now I'm
found; glory! glory! glory!' had imprinted themselves on his memory, and that his mind was
assuming a higher state of intellectuality. He asked me to sing it again, which I did, until
he fell asleep. Then I noticed a marked resemblance between him and Harry, and I thought, 'Suppose
he should prove to be your long-lost brother?' During his convalescence we found that we had
a common ground of sympathy. We were anxious to be reunited to our severed relations. We had
both been separated from our mothers. He told me of his little sister, with whom he used to
play. She had a mole on her cheek which he called her beauty spot. He had the red spot on his
forehead which you told me of."

CHAPTER XXIII.

DELIGHTFUL REUNIONS.

Very bright and happy was the home where Marie and her children were gathered under one roof.
Mrs. Leroy's neighbors said she looked ten years younger. Into that peaceful home came no fearful
forebodings of cruel separations. Harry and Iola were passionately devoted to their mother,
and did all they could to flood her life with sunshine.

"Iola, dear," said Harry, one morning at the breakfast-table, "I have a new pleasure in store
for you."

"What is it, brother mine?" asked Iola, assuming an air of interest.

"There is a young lady living in this city to whom I wish to introduce you. She is one of the
most remarkable women I have ever met."

"Do tell me all about her," said Iola. "Is she young and handsome, brilliant and witty?

"She," replied Harry, "is more than handsome, she is lovely; more than witty, she is wise;
more than brilliant, she is excellent."

"Well, Harry," said Mrs. Leroy, smiling, "if you keep on that way I shall begin to fear that
I shall soon be supplanted by a new daughter."

"Oh, no, mamma," replied Harry, looking slightly confused, "I did not mean that."

"Well, Harry," said Iola, amused, "go on with your description; I am becoming interested. Tax
your powers of description to give me her likeness."

"Well, in the first place," continued Harry, "I suppose she is about twenty-five years old."

"Oh, the idea," interrupted Iola, "of a gentleman talking of a lady's age. That is a tabooed
subject."

"Why, Iola, that adds to the interest of my picture. It is her combination of earnestness and
youthfulness which enhances her in my estimation."

"Pardon the interruption," said Iola; "I am anxious to hear more about her."

"Well, she is of medium height, somewhat slender, and well formed, with dark, expressive eyes,
full of thought and feeling. Neither hair nor complexion show the least hint of blood admixture."

"I am glad of it," said Iola. "Every person of unmixed blood who succeeds in any department
of literature, art, or science is a living argument for the capability which is in the race."

"Yes," responded Harry, "for it is not the white blood which is on trial before the world.
Well, I will bring her around this evening."

In the evening Harry brought Miss Delany to call on his sister and mother. They were much pleased
with their visitor. Her manner was a combination of suavity and dignity. During the course
of the evening they learned that she was a graduate of the University of A----. One day she
saw in the newspapers that colored women were becoming unfit to be servants for white people.
She then thought that if they are not fit to be servants for white people, they are unfit to
be mothers to their own children, and she conceived the idea of opening a school to train future
wives and mothers. She began on a small scale, in a humble building, and her work was soon
crowned with gratifying success. She had enlarged her quarters, increased her teaching force,
and had erected a large and commodious school-house through her own exertions and the help
of others.

Marie cordially invited her to call again, saying, as she rose to go: "I am very glad to have
met you. Young women like you always fill my heart with hope for the future of our race. In
you I see reflected some of the blessed possibilities which lie within us."

"Thank you," said Miss Delany, "I want to be classed among those of whom it is said, 'She has
done what she could.'"

Very pleasant was the acquaintance which sprang up between Miss Delany and Iola. Although she
was older than Iola, their tastes were so congenial, their views of life and duty in such unison,
that their acquaintance soon ripened into strong and lasting friendship. There were no foolish
rivalries and jealousies between them. Their lives were too full of zeal and earnestness for
them to waste in selfishness their power to be moral and spiritual forces among a people who
so much needed their helping hands. Miss Delany gave Iola a situation in her school; but before
the term was quite over she was force to resign, her health having been so undermined by the
fearful strain through which she had passed, that she was quite unequal to the task. She remained
at home, and did what her strength would allow in assisting her mother in the work of canning
and preserving fruits.

In the meantime, Iola had been corresponding with Robert. She had told him of her success in
finding her mother and brother, and had received an answer congratulating her on the glad fruition
of her hopes. He also said that his business was flourishing, that his mother was keeping house
for him, and, to use her own expression, was as happy as the days are long. She was firmly
persuaded that Marie was her daughter, and she wanted to see her before she died.

"There is one thing," continued the letter, "that your mother may remember her by. It was a
little handkerchief on which were a number of cats' heads. She gave one to each of us."

"I remember it well," said Marie, "she must, indeed, be my mother. Now, all that is needed
to complete my happiness is her presence, and my brother's. And I intend, if I live long enough,
to see them both."

Iola wrote Robert that her mother remembered the incident of the handkerchief, and was anxious
to see them.

In the early fall Robert started for the South in order to clear up all doubts with respect
to their relationship. He found Iola, Harry, and their mother living cosily together. Harry
was teaching and was a leader among the rising young men of the State. His Northern education
and later experience had done much toward adapting him to the work of the new era which had
dawned upon the South.

Marie was very glad to welcome Robert to her home, but it was almost impossible to recognize
her brother in that tall, handsome man, with dark-brown eyes and wealth of chestnut-colored
hair, which he readily lifted to show the crimson spot which lay beneath it.

But as they sat together, and recalled the long-forgotten scenes of their childhood, they concluded
that they were brother and sister.

"Marie," said Robert, "how would you like to leave the South?"

"I should like to go North, but I hate to leave Harry. He's a splendid young fellow, although
I say it myself. He is so fearless and outspoken that I am constantly anxious about him, especially
at election time."

Harry then entered the room, and, being introduced to Robert, gave him a cordial welcome. He
had just returned from school.

"We were talking of you, my son," said Marie.

"What were you saying? Nothing of the absent but good?" asked Harry.

"I was telling your uncle, who wants me to come North, that I would go, but I am afraid that
you will get into trouble and be murdered, as many others have been."

"Oh, well, mother, I shall not die till my time comes. And if I die helping the poor and needy,
I shall die at my post. Could a man choose a better place to die?"

"Were you aware of the virulence of caste prejudice and the disabilities which surround the
colored people when you cast your lot with them?" asked Robert.

"Not fully," replied Harry; "but after I found out that I was colored, I consulted the principal
of the school, where I was studying, in reference to the future. He said that if I stayed in
the North, he had friends whom he believed would give me any situation I could fill, and I
could simply take my place in the rank of workers, the same as any other man. Then he told
me of the army, and I made up my mind to enter it, actuated by a desire to find my mother and
sister; and at any rate I wanted to avenge their wrongs. I do not feel so now. Since I have
seen the fearful ravages of war, I have learned to pity and forgive. The principal said he
thought I would be more apt to find my family if I joined a colored regiment in the West than
if I joined one of the Maine companies. I confess at first I felt a shrinking from taking the
step, but love for my mother overcame all repugnance on my part. Now that I have linked my
fortunes to the race I intend to do all I can for its elevation."

As he spoke Robert gazed admiringly on the young face, lit up by noble purposes and lofty enthusiasm.

"You are right, Harry. I think it would be treason, not only to the race, but to humanity,
to have you ignoring your kindred and masquerading as a white man."

"I think so, too," said Marie.

"But, sister, I am anxious for you all to come North. If Harry feels that the place of danger
is the post of duty, let him stay, and he can spend his vacations with us. I think both you
and Iola need rest and change. Mother longs to see you before she dies. She feels that we have
been the children of many prayers and tears, and I want to make her last days as happy as possible.
The South has not been a paradise to you all the time, and I should think you would be willing
to leave it."

"Yes, that is so. Iola needs rest and change, and she would be such a comfort to mother. I
suppose, for her sake, I will consent to have her go back with you, at least for awhile."

In a few days, with many prayers and tears, Marie, half reluctantly, permitted Iola to start
for the North in company with Robert Johnson, intending to follow as soon as she could settle
her business and see Harry in a good boarding place.

Very joyful was the greeting of the dear grandmother. Iola soon nestled in her heart and lent
additional sunshine to her once checkered life, and Robert, who had so long been robbed of
kith and kin, was delighted with the new accession to his home life.

CHAPTER XXIV.

NORTHERN EXPERIENCE.

"Uncle Robert," said Iola, after she had been North several weeks, "I have a theory that every
woman ought to know how to earn her own living. I believe that a great amount of sin and misery
springs from the weakness and inefficiency of women."

"Perhaps that's so, but what are you going to do about it?"

"I am going to join the great rank of bread-winners. Mr. Waterman has advertised for a number
of saleswomen, and I intend to make application."

"When he advertises for help he means white women," said Robert.

"He said nothing about color," responded Iola.

"I don't suppose he did. He doesn't expect any colored girl to apply."

"Well, I think I could fill the place. At least I should like to try. And I do not think when
I apply that I am in duty bound to tell him my great-grandmother was a negro."

"Well, child, there is no necessity for you to go out to work. You are perfectly welcome here,
and I hope that you feel so."

"Oh, I certainly do. But still I would rather earn my own living."

That morning Iola applied for the situation, and, being prepossessing in her appearance, she
obtained it.

For awhile everything went as pleasantly as a marriage bell. But one day a young colored lady,
well-dressed and well-bred in her manner, entered the store. It was an acquaintance which Iola
had formed in the colored church which she attended. Iola gave her a few words of cordial greeting,
and spent a few moments chatting with her. The attention of the girls who sold at the same
counter was attracted, and their suspicion awakened. Iola was a stranger in that city. Who
was she, and who were her people? At last it was decided that one of the girls should act as
a spy, and bring what information she could concerning Iola.

The spy was successful. She found out that Iola was living in a good neighborhood, but that
none of the neighbors knew her. The man of the house was very fair, but there was an old woman
whom Iola called "Grandma," and she was unmistakably colored. The story was sufficient. If
that were true, Iola must be colored, and she should be treated accordingly.

Without knowing the cause, Iola noticed a chill in the social atmosphere of the store, which
communicated itself to the cash-boys, and they treated her so insolently that her situation
became very uncomfortable. She saw the proprietor, resigned her position, and asked for and
obtained a letter of recommendation to another merchant who had advertised for a saleswoman.

In applying for the place, she took the precaution to inform her employer that she was colored.
It made no difference to him; but he said:--

"Don't say anything about it to the girls. They might not be willing to work with you."

Iola smiled, did not promise, and accepted the situation. She entered upon her duties, and
proved quite acceptable as a saleswoman.

One day, during an interval in business, the girls began to talk of their respective churches,
and the question was put to Iola:--

"Where do you go to church?"

"I go," she replied, "to Rev. River's church, corner of Eighth and L Streets."

"Oh, no; you must be mistaken. There is no church there except a colored one."

"That is where I go."

"Why do you go there?"

"Because I liked it when I came here, and joined it."

"A member of a colored church? What under heaven possessed you to do such a thing?"

"Because I wished to be with my own people."

Here the interrogator stopped, and looked surprised and pained, and almost instinctively moved
a little farther from her. After the store was closed, the girls had an animated discussion,
which resulted in the information being sent to Mr. Cohen that Iola was a colored girl, and
that they protested against her being continued in his employ. Mr. Cohen yielded to the pressure,
and informed Iola that her services were no longer needed.

When Robert came home in the evening, he found that Iola had lost her situation, and was looking
somewhat discouraged.

"Well, uncle," she said, "I feel out of heart. It seems as if the prejudice pursues us through
every avenue of life, and assigns us the lowest places."

"That is so," replied Robert, thoughtfully.

"And yet I am determined," said Iola, "to win for myself a place in the fields of labor. I
have heard of a place in New England, and I mean to try for it, even if I only stay a few months."

"Well, if you will go, say nothing about your color."

"Uncle Robert, I see no necessity for proclaiming that fact on the house-top. Yet I am resolved
that nothing shall tempt me to deny it. The best blood in my veins is African blood, and I
am not ashamed of it."

"Hurrah for you!" exclaimed Robert, laughing heartily.

As Iola wished to try the world for herself, and so be prepared for any emergency, her uncle
and grandmother were content to have her go to New England. The town to which she journeyed
was only a few hours' ride from the city of P----, and Robert, knowing that there is no teacher
like experience, was willing that Iola should have the benefit of her teaching.

Iola, on arriving in H----, sought the firm, and was informed that her services were needed.
She found it a pleasant and lucrative position. There was only one drawback--her boarding place
was too far from her work. There was an institution conducted by professed Christian women,
which was for the special use of respectable young working girls. This was in such a desirable
location that she called at the house to engage board.

The matron conducted her over the house, and grew so friendly in the interview that she put
her arm around her, and seemed to look upon Iola as a desirable accession to the home. But,
just as Iola was leaving, she said to the matron: "I must be honest with you; I am a colored
woman."

Swift as light a change passed over the face of the matron. She withdrew her arm from Iola,
and said: "I must see the board of managers about it."

When the board met, Iola's case was put before them, but they decided not to receive her. And
these women, professors of a religion which taught, "If ye have respect to persons ye commit
sin," virtually shut the door in her face because of the outcast blood in her veins.

Considerable feeling was aroused by the action of these women, who, to say the least, had not
put their religion in the most favorable light.

Iola continued to work for the firm until she received letters from her mother and uncle, which
informed her that her mother, having arranged her affairs in the South, was ready to come North.
She then resolved to return, to the city of P----, to be ready to welcome her mother on her
arrival.

Iola arrived in time to see that everything was in order for her mother's reception. Her room
was furnished neatly, but with those touches of beauty that womanly hands are such adepts in
giving. A few charming pictures adorned the walls, and an easy chair stood waiting to receive
the travel-worn mother. Robert and Iola met her at the depot; and grandma was on her feet at
the first sound of the bell, opened the door, clasped Marie to her heart, and nearly fainted
for joy.

"Can it be possible dat dis is my little Marie?" she exclaimed.

It did seem almost impossible to realize that this faded woman, with pale cheeks and prematurely
whitened hair, was the rosy-cheeked child from whom she had been parted more than thirty years.

"Well," said Robert, after the first joyous greeting was over, "love is a very good thing,
but Marie has had a long journey and needs something that will stick by the ribs. How about
dinner, mother?"

"It's all ready," said Mrs. Johnson.

After Marie had gone to her room and changed her dress, she came down and partook of the delicious
repast which her mother and Iola had prepared for her.

In a few days Marie was settled in the home, and was well pleased with the change. The only
drawback to her happiness was the absence of her son, and she expected him to come North after
the closing of his school.

"Uncle Robert," said Iola, after her mother had been with them several weeks, "I am tired of
being idle."

"What's the matter now?" asked Robert. "You are surely not going East again, and leave your
mother?"

"Oh, I hope not," said Marie, anxiously. "I have been so long without you."

"No, mamma, I am not going East. I can get suitable employment here in the city of P----."

"But, Iola," said Robert, "you have tried, and been defeated. Why subject yourself to the same
experience again?"

"Uncle Robert, I think that every woman should have some skill or art which would insure her
at least a comfortable support. I believe there would be less unhappy marriages if labor were
more honored among women."

"Well, Iola," said her mother, "what is your skill?"

"Nursing. I was very young when I went into the hospital, but I succeeded so well that the
doctor said I must have been a born nurse. Now, I see by the papers, that a gentleman who has
an invalid daughter wants some one who can be a nurse and companion for her, and I mean to
apply for the situation. I do not think, if I do my part well in that position, that the blood
in my veins will be any bar to my success."

A troubled look stole over Marie's face. She sighed faintly, but made no remonstrance. And
so it was decided that Iola should apply for the situation.

Iola made application, and was readily accepted. Her patient was a frail girl of fifteen summers,
who was ill with a low fever. Iola nursed her carefully, and soon had the satisfaction of seeing
her restored to health. During her stay, Mr. Cloten, the father of the invalid, had learned
some of the particulars of Iola's Northern experience as a bread-winner, and he resolved to
give her employment in his store when her services were no longer needed in the house. As soon
as a vacancy occurred he gave Iola a place in his store.

The morning she entered on her work he called his employés together, and told them that Miss
Iola had colored blood in her veins, but that he was going to employ her and give her a desk.
If any one objected to working with her, he or she could step to the cashier's desk and receive
what was due. Not a man remonstrated, not a woman demurred; and Iola at last found a place
in the great army of bread-winners, which the traditions of her blood could not affect.

"How did you succeed?" asked Mrs. Cloten of her husband, when he returned to dinner.

"Admirably! 'Everything is lovely and the goose hangs high.' I gave my employés to understand
that they could leave if they did not wish to work with Miss Leroy. Not one of them left, or
showed any disposition to rebel."

"I am very glad," said Mrs. Cloten. "I am ashamed of the way she has been treated in our city,
when seeking to do her share in the world's work. I am glad that you were brave enough to face
this cruel prejudice, and give her a situation."

"Well, my dear, do not make me a hero for a single act. I am grateful for the care Miss Leroy
gave our Daisy. Money can buy services, but it cannot purchase tender, loving sympathy. I was
also determined to let my employés know that I, not they, commanded my business. So, do not
crown me a hero until I have won a niche in the temple of fame. In dealing with Southern prejudice
against the negro, we Northerners could do it with better grace if we divested ourselves of
our own. We irritate the South by our criticisms, and, while I confess that there is much that
is reprehensible in their treatment of colored people, yet if our Northern civilization is
higher than theirs we should 'criticise by creation.' We should stamp ourselves on the South,
and not let the South stamp itself on us. When we have learned to treat men according to the
complexion of their souls, and not the color of their skins, we will have given our best contribution
towards the solution of the negro problem."

"I feel, my dear," said Mrs. Cloten, "that what you have done is a right step in the right
direction, and I hope that other merchants will do the same. We have numbers of business men,
rich enough to afford themselves the luxury of a good conscience."

CHAPTER XXV.

AN OLD FRIEND.

"Good-morning, Miss Leroy," said a cheery voice in tones of glad surprise, and, intercepting
her path, Dr. Gresham stood before Iola, smiling, and reaching out his hand.

"Why, Dr. Gresham, is this you?" said Iola, lifting her eyes to that well-remembered face.
"It has been several years since we met. How have you been all this time, and where?"

"I have been sick, and am just now recovering from malaria and nervous prostration. I am attending
a medical convention in this city, and hope that I shall have the pleasure of seeing you again."

Iola hesitated, and then replied: "I should be pleased to have you call."

"It would give me great pleasure. Where shall I call?"

"My home is 1006 South Street, but I am only at home in the evenings."

No one noticed the deep flush on Iola's face as she entered the store, nor the subdued, quiet
manner with which she applied herself to her tasks. She was living over again the past, with
its tender, sad, and thrilling reminiscences.

In the evening Dr. Gresham called on Iola. She met him with a pleasant welcome. Dr. Gresham
gazed upon her with unfeigned admiration, and thought that the years, instead of detracting
from, had only intensified, her loveliness. He had thought her very beautiful in the hospital,
in her gray dress and white collar, with her glorious wealth of hair drawn over her ears. But
now, when he saw her with that hair artistically arranged, and her finely-proportioned form
arrayed in a dark crimson dress, relieved by a shimmer of lace and a bow of white ribbon at
her throat, he thought her superbly handsome. The lines which care had written upon her young
face had faded away. There was no undertone of sorrow in her voice as she stood up before him
in the calm loveliness of her ripened womanhood, radiant in beauty and gifted in intellect.
Time and failing health had left their traces upon Dr. Gresham. His step was less bounding,
his cheek a trifle paler, his manner somewhat graver than it was when he had parted from Iola
in the hospital, but his meeting with her had thrilled his heart with unexpected pleasure.
Hopes and sentiments which long had slept awoke at the touch of her hand and the tones of her
voice, and Dr. Gresham found himself turning to the past, with its sad memories and disappointed
hopes. No other face had displaced her image in his mind; no other love had woven itself around
every tendril of his soul. His heart and hand were just as free as they were the hour they
had parted.

"To see you again," said Dr. Gresham, "is a great and unexpected pleasure."

"You had not forgotten me, then?" said Iola, smiling.

"Forget you! I would just as soon forget my own existence. I do not think that time will ever
efface the impressions of those days in which we met so often. When last we met you were intending
to search for your mother. Have you been successful?"

"More than successful," said Iola, with a joyous ring in her voice. "I have found my mother,
brother, grandmother, and uncle, and, except my brother, we are all living together, and we
are so happy. Excuse me a few minutes," she said, and left the room. Iola soon returned, bringing
with her her mother and grandmother.

"These," said Iola, introducing her mother and grandmother, "are the once-severed branches
of our family; and this gentleman you have seen before," continued Iola, as Robert entered
the room.

Dr. Gresham looked scrutinizingly at him and said: "Your face looks familiar, but I saw so
many faces at the hospital that I cannot just now recall your name."

"Doctor," said Robert Johnson, "I was one of your last patients, and I was with Tom Anderson
when he died."

"Oh, yes," replied Dr. Gresham; "it all comes back to me. You were wounded at the battle of
Five Forks, were you not?"

"Yes," said Robert.

"I saw you when you were recovering. You told me that you thought you had a clue to your lost
relatives, from whom you had been so long separated. How have you succeeded?"

"Admirably! I have been fortunate in finding my mother, my sister, and her children."

"Ah, indeed! I am delighted to hear it. Where are they?"

"They are right here. John Wentworth, last Royalist Governor of New Hampshire and afterwards
Sir John Wentworth, Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, doubtless
believed himself to be a good man and a good Christian.

The story of Eve and Suke infra is told by Archdeacon Raymond, 3
N. B. Mag., 1899, p. 221.

[12] He went to England in 1796 (it was paid, of course. [1] Everywhere
slavery was doomed and in one sailed for New Brunswick of which he
was appointed Solicitor General.

After a quarter of a century of successful practice he was appointed
1808 a puisne judge of the Supreme Court.

He died in February, 1826. His services to Nancy Morton were given
without fee or hope of reward. [18] That of Mr. Chipman is given
in Trans.

R. Soc. Can., 1898, pp. 155-184. [19] It will be seen that the return
sets up that Jones bought and owned the slave and the case was argued
on that hypothesis, but the historians say that Captain Stair Agnew
was the owner.

The point is not of importance. [20] Mos regit legem, Mos pro lege,
Leges moribus servient, Consuetudo est optimus interpres legum, custom is
the life of the law, custom becomes law,& c.,& c. That slavery was
necessary and therefore legal in the American Colonies was admitted
in the Somerset case.

[21] The modern lawyer, in my opinion, would find no difficulty in coming
to the same conclusion as the Chief Justice.

Mr. Chipman in his interesting correspondence with Chief Justice Blowers
(Trans. R. Soc. Can., 1898, pp. 148 sqq.) admits that if his opponents
had hit upon the Nova Scotia Statute of 1762 as revised in 1783 "the
conclusiveness of their reasoning on their principles would have been
considered as demonstrated."

He adds: "In searching your laws upon this occasion I found this clause
but carefully avoided mentioning it," which raises a curious question
in legal ethics.

[22] The reconveyance to Bailey, a quit claim deed, is witnessed by George
Leonard and Thomas Wetmore and is dated February 22, 1800.

The indenture by which Nancy bound herself for fifteen years is dated
February 23, 1800.

If Dr. Jack is right in his conjecture the argument took place when
she was 36 and she would receive her freedom when she was 51.

Agnew challenged Judge Allen for some reflection upon him by the
Judge; the challenge was declined and Agnew then challenged Street who
accepted-- and they fought a bloodless duel.

Street later in 1821 fought a duel with George Ludlow Wetmore over
words which passed on leaving the Court.

Wetmore was struck in the head and died in a few hours. Street was tried
and aquitted. One result of this case was that Mr. Justice Upham freed
his slaves. His wife had six inherited from her father and he himself
had some, one a girl born in the East Indies whom he had bought from
her master in New York, the master of a ship, afterwards married a
soldier in Colonel Allen's regiment.

[23] What is believed to be the last advertisement for the sale of
a slave in any maritime province is in the New Brunswick Royal Gazette
of October 16, 1809 when Daniel Brown offered for sale Nancy a Negro
woman, guaranteeing a good title.

The latest offer of a reward for the apprehension of a runaway slave
is said to be in the same paper for July 10, 1816. [24] For this act the
perpetrator was excluded by his masonic lodge; being brought to trial before
the Supreme Court in August 1792 he was "honourably acquitted" and
afterwards he was reinstated by his lodge.

[25] Seldom mentioned and never much boasted of in the United States.
[26] The word Camouflage may be new. The practice antedated humanity.
[27] There is a record of 371 arriving at St. John from Halifax on
May 25, 1815, by the Romulus, who had taken refuge on board the British
Men of War in the Chesapeake.

The Negro settlement at Loch Lomond was founded by them.

At the
Census of 1824, 1421 "persons of color" were found in New Brunswick.
The Very Rev. Archdeacon Raymond, an excellent authority, thinks
most of these "were at one time slaves or the children of slaves,"
but many were not slaves in New Brunswick.

Those that were brought by Admiral Cochrane to Halifax became a great
burden to the community. It was proposed in 1815 by the British Government
to remove them to a warmer climate, but this scheme does not seem
to have been carried out.

By several census taken in 1816 there was found to be 684 in Halifax
and elsewhere in Nova Scotia.

In the winter of 1814-15 they had suffered rather severely from small pox
and were vaccinated to prevent its spread. Some were placed on Melville
Island.

[28] Presumably because he had the greatest number of serfs in the world
and was, therefore, the best judge of slaves.

[29] Of course, Britain refused to give up a single fugitive. She could not betray
a trust even of the humblest. She knew that in "the land of the free
and the home of the brave" for the Negro returned to his master,
to be brave was to incur torture and death and death alone could make
him free.

[30] The Act (1833) 3, 4 William III, c. 73 (Imp.), passed the House of
Commons August 7 and received the Royal Assent August 28, 1833; but
the courts decided in effect if not in form that a master had no
rights over his slave, and that is tantamount to saying that where
there is no master there is no slave.

The reasoning in these cases as in the Somerset case may not recommend itself to the lawyer but the effect
is undoubtedly, "Slaves cannot live in Lower Canada." In Nova Scotia,
there was no decision that slavery did not exist.

Indeed the course of procedure presupposed that it did exist, but the courts were astute to find means
of making it all but impossible for the alleged master to succeed;
and slavery disappeared accordingly.

In New Brunswick the decision by a divided court was in favor of the master;
but juries were of the same calibre and sentiments in New Brunswick
as in Nova Scotia and the same results were to be anticipated, if
Nova Scotian means were used; and the slave owners gave way.

In the old land, judicial decision destroyed slavery on the British domain;
but conscience and sense of justice and right impelled its destruction
elsewhere by statute; but a few Southerners have expressed to me
their general concurrence with my friend's proposition.

BOOK REVIEWS Africa and the Discovery of America. Volume I. By LEO
WIENER, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures at Harvard University.
Innes& Sons, Philadelphia, Pa., 1920. Pp. i-xix, 1-290. The present
volume is the first of a series in which Professor Wiener will show
that Arabicised Negroes, chiefly Mandingoes, brought to America as slaves,
profoundly influenced the culture of the Indians, and were an important,
if not always direct factor in establishing the modus vivendi between
the Indians and the Europeans, which made practicable the colonization
of the New World.

The book is packed with valuable data, newly discovered, and brought together
for the first time. It should be read slowly, and read through at
least twice before judgment is passed on it.

With the first reading comes a shock. One learns that the Journal of the First
Voyage, and the First Letter of Columbus are literary frauds, though
containing material which came from Columbus's own pen, and that tobacco,
manioc, yams, sweet potatoes and peanuts are not gifts of the Indian
to the European.

Yet with a more intimate study of the subject matter, the conviction
increases that the author has built upon the bed-rock of fact, and
that his position is unassailable.

It is impossible, within the limits of a review, to do more than to
emphasise the most important of his discoveries.

In his studies of the First Letter, and of the Journals giving account
of the first and the second voyages of Columbus, Professor Wiener
seeks to determine how much testimony they give pertaining to Indian
names and things, after the elimination of all that is not Indian.

The non-Indian elements are of two sorts; the names of the Islands, and
the words for "gold," etc. Columbus, dominated by the fixed idea,
that, sailing westward, he would find a short cut to India, China
and Japan, began with the first sight of land, to be engrossed with
the task of identifying each newly discovered country with some island
or district of the Far East, named on his maps.

He was an ignorant man, though he knew Ptolemy and Marco Polo by heart, credulous,
uncritical, not consciously dishonest, but unready to correct false
impressions caused by his ignorance and gullibility. His notes, as
may be seen from a reproduction of a page of his manuscripts (facing
p. 38), were in an execrable hand.

The forger of the Journal of the First Voyage was no puzzle expert, and
made mistakes in deciphering scrawls.

Thus, for example, the note Giaua min., i. e., Java minor, was read Guanahin, the
same destined to masquerade as Guanahani, the Indian name of the
first island sighted on October 12, 1492.

Perhaps the best specimen of such ghost-words in the Journal is the name
Carib. This is nothing but Marco Polo's Cambalu, the capital of the
Grand Khan, successively misread as Canibal, Caniba, Cariba. So also,
"canoe" is a ghost-word, traced to a misreading of scaphas as canoas
in the manuscript, or the Gothic text of the Latin version of the
First Letter.

It is interesting to learn that maize, in the forms masa, maza, ultimately
from Portuguese mararoca, is the African name for Guinea corn.

The transference of the name from Guinea corn to Indian corn, "rests on a misunderstanding of
a passage in Peter Martyr's First Decade" (p. 123). The question arises whether
or not there had been a colony of Europeans, with African slaves in
America, before the arrival of Columbus.

Fray Ramon Pane, Oviedo, and Las Casas give conico as the Indian word for
"farm, plantation." This is clearly the Mandingo kunke "farm." The
Indian word for "golo," according to the Journal entry for January
13, 1493, is caona.

It is found also in the name of Cacique Caonabo, called in the Journal of
the Second Voyage "master of mines,"-- the name being explained in
the Libretto as "lord of the house of their gold." Now the words for
"gold" in the Negro languages are mostly derived from Arabic din [= a]
r, which, through Hausa zinaria, and Pul kanyera, reaches Vei as kani.
Evidently canoa, written also guani, is nothing but this Vei word.

In "Cacique Caonabo," we have three Mande words in juxtaposition. Cacique
is not far removed from kuntigi, Soso kundzi, "chief,"-- caona, that is
kani, is "gold," and boi, from Arabic beii, bai, is "house."

[5] It is referred to in a letter from Ward Chipman to Chief Justice to Montreal, that of Emmanuel
Allen for£ 36. The last advertisement for sale by auction of a slave in the Maritime Provinces
seems to be that in The Royal Gazette and Nova Scotia Advertiser
of September 7, 1790, where William Millet of Halifax offers for sale
by auction September 9 "A stout likely negro man and sundry other
articles."

In 1802 the census showed that there were 451 Blacks in Halifax;
in 1791 there were 422. Dr VIII GENERAL OBSERVATIONS The curse of Negro
slavery affected the whole English speaking world; and that part
of the world where it was commercially profitable resisted its abolition.

The British part of this world does not need to assert any higher sense
of justice and right than had those who lived in the Northern States;
and it may well be that had Negro slave service been as profitable
in Canada as in the Cotton States, the heinousness of the sin might
not have been more manifest here than there.

Nevertheless we must not too much minimize the real merit of those
who sought the destruction of slavery. Slaves did not pay so well in Canada
as in Georgia, but they paid. It is interesting to note the various
ways in which slavery was met and finally destroyed. In Upper Canada,
the existing slaves, 1793, remained slaves but all those born thereafter
were free, subject to certain conditions of service.

There was a statutory recognition of the existing status and provision
for its destruction in the afterborn.

This
continued slavery though it much mitigated its severity and secured
its downfall in time.

But
there were slaves in Upper Canada when the Imperial Act of 1833 came
in force.

The Act of 1793 was admittedly but a compromise measure; and beneficial
as it was it was a paltering with sin.

In Lower Canada, there was no legislation, and slavery was never formally
abolished until the Imperial Act of 1833; and there were no slaves in all
the British world after August, 1838. CHAPTER.

T. Watson Smith says in a paper "Slavery in Canada" republished in
"Canadian History," No. 12, December, 1900, at p. 321.

"About 1806, so Judge Marshall has stated, a master and his slave were
taken before Chief Justice Blowers on a writ of habeas corpus. When
the case and the question of slavery in general had been pretty well
argued on each side, the Chief Justice him decided that slavery had
no legal place in Nova Scotia."

I have not been able to trace such a decision and cannot think that
it has been correctly reported.

Dr. Smith is wholly justified in his statement "there is good ground for
the opinion that this baneful system was never actually abolished
in the present Canadian Provinces until the vote of the British Parliament
and the signature of King William IV in 1833 rendered it illegal throughout
the British Empire."

[16]
J. Allen Jack, Q. C., D. C., L., of St. John, New Brunswick, gives a full account
of this case from which (and similar sources) most of the facts are
taken. In a paper read before the Royal Society of Canada May 26,
1898, Trans.

R. S. Can., 1898, pp. 137 sqq., Dr. Jack conjectures that Nancy Morton is the Negro female
slave conveyed by bill of sale registered in the office of the Register
of Deeds, St. John's, N. B. Slaves were treated as realty as regards
fieri facias under the Act of 1732 (see ante, p.--) and at least "savoured
of the realty."

The bill of sale registered January 31, 1791, was dated November 13, 1778, and was executed by John Johnson
of the Township of Brooklyn in King's County, Long Island, Province
of New York.

It conveyed with a covenant to warrant and defend title to Samuel Duffy, Innkeeper for£ 40 currency (say$
100) "a certain negro female about fourteen years of age and goes by the
name of Nancy," pp. 141, 142. However that may be, Stair Agnew bought
Nancy from William Bailey of the County of York in the Province of
New Brunswick for£ 40 with full warranty of title as a slave.

[17] He was born in Boston in 1753, the son of John Chipman, a member of the Bar. Graduating at Harvard,
he joined the Boston Bar and practised in that City until 1776. After
the Peace he went to England and in 1784 way or another it has met a
deserved fate.

WILLIAM RENWICK RIDDELL JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF ONTARIO, OSGOOD HALL, TORONTO, February 5, 1920 FOOTNOTES:
[1] I had with the late Hon. Warwick Hough of St. Louis, Missouri, who had been an officer in the
Southern Army, several conversations on the subject of slavery.

He gave it as his firm conviction that, had the South succeeded in the
Civil War, it would shortly have itself abolished slavery and sought
readmission to the Union. His proposition was that the power and influence
of the planter class was waning, while the manufacturers, merchants
and the like were increasing in number and influence and they would
have for their own protection abolished slavery.

I have not met a Northerner or a Canadian who agreed with this view; and the
same sense of justice and right impelled the Parliament of Great
Britain to recompense the owners for their property thus destroyed.

If there be any more altruistic act of any people in any age of the world's
history I have failed to hear or read of it. In the United States, slavery
was abolished as a war measure.

Lincoln hating slavery as he did would never have abolished it, had
he not considered it a useful war measure.

No compensation was said, for a visit) resigned his position in Nova
Scotia, was Knighted and appointed Recorder of Fort St. George, Bombay,
India.

[13] A collateral ancestor of my own, the Reverend Archibald Riddell,
had the advantage of a similar proceeding a century before.

Being apprehended for taking part in the uprising of the Covenanters
in Scotland he was given (or sold) with others to a Scottish Laird who
chartered a vessel and proceeded to take his human chattels to America
for sale.

The plague broke out
on the ship, the Laird and his wife died of it as did some of the
crew.

When the ship reached New Jersey, there being no master, the "slaves" escaped
up country. The Laird's son-in-law and personal representative came
to America and claimed Riddell and others. The governor called a jury
to determine whether they were slaves and the jury promptly found
in their favor.

Riddell preached in New Jersey until the Revolution of 1688 made it safe
for him to return to Scotland.

Juries in such cases are liable to what Blackstone calls "pious perjury."
All this practice was based upon the common law proceedings when a
claim was made of villenage.

When a person claimed to be the lord of a villein who had run away and remained
outside the manor unto which he was regardant, he sued out a writ
of neif, that is, de nativo habendo.

The sheriff took the writ and if the nativus admitted that he was villein to the lord who claimed
him, he was delivered by the sheriff to the lord of the manor; but
if he claimed to be free, the sheriff should not seize him but the
Lord was compelled to take out a Pone to have the matter tried before
the Court of Common Pleas or the Justices in Eyre, that is, the assizes.

Or the alleged villein might himself sue out a writ of libertate probanda:
and until trial of the case the lord could not seize the alleged
villein.

The curious will find the whole subject dealt with in Fitzherbert's
Natura Brevium, pp. 77 sqq.

[14] This
is very much like the Chloe Cooley case in Upper Canada. I do not know
what form the prosecution could possibly take if the Negro was in
fact a slave. See Chapter V, note 5 ante. [15] It is said that August
1797 was the date of the last public slave sale at be mentioned later.

See post, p. [6] This Act was continued in 1784 by (1784) 24 George III,
c. 14 (N. S.). Statutes at Large, Nova Scotia, p. 238. [7] "Halifax
currency" was at this time nine-tenths of Sterling£ 10 currency=£
9 sterling and the 5/ dollar being 4/ 6 sterling.

Sir Guy Carleton claimed that the Negroes who had taken refuge in
the British lines at once lost their status of slavery and became
free.

They were "not Negroes or other property of the American," a rather
technical not to say finely drawn distinction but in favorem libertatis;
and in any event Britain would not betray the helpless who had put
their faith in her.

[9] Washington did make a claim; but the United
States had not carried out its part of the contract and Britain would not and
never did pay.

Jones'Loyalist History of New York, Vol. 2. p. 256, says that the
number of Negroes who found shelter in the British lines was 2000 at
least; probably this is an underestimate. Hay's Historical Reading at p. 249
gives the number of Negroes who came into Nova Scotia with their Masters
at least 3000-- and of free Negroes 1522 at Shelburne, 182 at St.
John River.

270 at Guysborough, 211 in Annapolis County, and a smaller number
at other places. 1200 were sent to Sierre Leone in 1792.

[10] See ante, p.--.

The Negro population in 1784 estimated at about 3000 was included in
the 28,347 of Disbanded Troops and Loyalists called New Inhabitants,
Can.

Arch., Report for 1885, p. 10. There were some free Negroes in various
companies of the British forces in one capacity or another. [11]
The Negroes sent were Abraham, James, Lymas, Cyrus, John, Isaac,
Quako, January, Priscella, Rachel, Venus, Daphne, Ann, Dorothy and
four children Celia, William, Venus, Eleanora-- reserving Matthew
and Susannah at home.

All these had been christened, February 11, 1784. "Isaac is a thorough
good carpenter and master sawyer, perfectly capable of overseeing
and conducting the rest and strictly honest; Lymas is a rough carpenter
and sawyer; Quako is a field negro has met with an accident in his
arm which will require some indulgence.

The other men are sawyers and John also a good axeman. Abraham has
been used to cattle and to attend in the house,& c. All the men are
expert in boats.

The women are stout and able and promise well to increase their numbers.
Venus is useful in the hospital, poultry yard, gardens, etc. Upon the whole
they are a most useful lot of Negroes.

"
 They talked awhile of reminiscences of the war and hospital life, when Dr. Gresham,
approaching Iola, said:--

"Miss Leroy, I am glad the great object of your life is accomplished, and that you have found
all your relatives. Years have passed since we parted, years in which I have vainly tried to
get a trace of you and have been baffled, but I have found you at last!" Clasping her hand
in his, he continued, "I would it were so that I should never lose you again! Iola, will you
not grant me the privilege of holding this hand as mine all through the future of our lives?
Your search for your mother is ended. She is well cared for. Are you not free at last to share
with me my Northern home, free to be mine as nothing else on earth is mine." Dr. Gresham looked
eagerly on Iola's face, and tried to read its varying expression. "Iola, I learned to love
you in the hospital. I have tried to forget you, but it has been all in vain. Your image is
just as deeply engraven on my heart as it was the day we parted."

"Doctor," she replied, sadly, but firmly, as she withdrew her hand from his, "I feel now as
I felt then, that there is an insurmountable barrier between us."

"What is it, Iola?" asked Dr. Gresham, anxiously.

"It is the public opinion which assigns me a place with the colored people."

"But what right has public opinion to interfere with our marriage relations? Why should we
yield to its behests?"

"Because it is stronger than we are, and we cannot run counter to it without suffering its
penalties."

"And what are they, Iola? Shadows that you merely dread?"

"No! no! the penalties of social ostracism North and South, except here and there some grand
and noble exceptions. I do not think that you fully realize how much prejudice against colored
people permeates society, lowers the tone of our religion, and reacts upon the life of the
nation. After freedom came, mamma was living in the city of A----, and wanted to unite with
a Christian church there. She made application for membership. She passed her examination as
a candidate, and was received as a church member. When she was about to make her first communion,
she unintentionally took her seat at the head of the column. The elder who was administering
the communion gave her the bread in the order in which she sat, but before he gave her the
wine some one touched him on the shoulder and whispered a word in his ear. He then passed mamma
by, gave the cup to others, and then returned to her. From that rite connected with the holiest
memories of earth, my poor mother returned humiliated and depressed."

"What a shame!" exclaimed Dr. Gresham, indignantly.

"I have seen," continued Iola, "the same spirit manifested in the North. Mamma once attempted
to do missionary work in this city. One day she found an outcast colored girl, whom she wished
to rescue. She took her to an asylum for fallen women and made an application for her, but
was refused. Colored girls were not received there. Soon after mamma found among the colored
people an outcast white girl. Mamma's sympathies, unfettered by class distinction, were aroused
in her behalf, and, in company with two white ladies, she went with the girl to that same refuge.
For her the door was freely opened and admittance readily granted. It was as if two women were
sinking in the quicksands, and on the solid land stood other women with life-lines in their
hands, seeing the deadly sands slowly creeping up around the hapless victims. To one they readily
threw the lines of deliverance, but for the other there was not one strand of salvation. Sometime
since, to the same asylum, came a poor fallen girl who had escaped from the clutches of a wicked
woman. For her the door would have been opened, had not the vile woman from whom she was escaping
followed her to that place of refuge and revealed the fact that she belonged to the colored
race. That fact was enough to close the door upon her, and to send her back to sin and to suffer,
and perhaps to die as a wretched outcast. And yet in this city where a number of charities
are advertised, I do not think there is one of them which, in appealing to the public, talks
more religion than the managers of this asylum. This prejudice against the colored race environs
our lives and mocks our aspirations."

"Iola, I see no use in your persisting that you are colored when your eyes are as blue and
complexion as white as mine."

"Doctor, were I your wife, are there not people who would caress me as a white woman who would
shrink from me in scorn if they knew I had one drop of negro blood in my veins? When mistaken
for a white woman, I should hear things alleged against the race at which my blood would boil.
No, Doctor, I am not willing to live under a shadow of concealment which I thoroughly hate
as if the blood in my veins were an undetected crime of my soul."

"Iola, dear, surely you paint the picture too darkly."

"Doctor, I have painted it with my heart's blood. It is easier to outgrow the dishonor of crime
than the disabilities of color. You have created in this country an aristocracy of color wide
enough to include the South with its treason and Utah with its abominations, but too narrow
to include the best and bravest colored man who bared his breast to the bullets of the enemy
during your fratricidal strife. Is not the most arrant Rebel to-day more acceptable to you
than the most faithful colored man?"

"No! no!" exclaimed Dr. Gresham, vehemently. "You are wrong. I belong to the Grand Army of
the Republic. We have no separate State Posts for the colored people, and, were such a thing
proposed, the majority of our members, I believe, would be against it. In Congress colored
men have the same seats as white men, and the color line is slowly fading out in our public
institutions."

"But how is it in the Church?" asked Iola.

"The Church is naturally conservative. It preserves old truths, even if it is somewhat slow
in embracing new ideas. It has its social as well as its spiritual side. Society is woman's
realm. The majority of church members are women, who are said to be the aristocratic element
of our country. I fear that one of the last strongholds of this racial prejudice will be found
beneath the shadow of some of our churches. I think, on account of this social question, that
large bodies of Christian temperance women and other reformers, in trying to reach the colored
people even for their own good, will be quicker to form separate associations than our National
Grand Army, whose ranks are open to black and white, liberals and conservatives, saints and
agnostics. But, Iola, we have drifted far away from the question. No one has a right to interfere
with our marriage if we do not infringe on the rights of others."

"Doctor," she replied, gently, "I feel that our paths must diverge. My life-work is planned.
I intend spending my future among the colored people of the South."

"My dear friend," he replied, anxiously, "I am afraid that you are destined to sad disappointment.
When the novelty wears off you will be disillusioned, and, I fear, when the time comes that
you can no longer serve them they will forget your services and remember only your failings."

"But, Doctor, they need me; and I am sure when I taught among them they were very grateful
for my services."

"I think," he replied, "these people are more thankful than grateful."

"I do not think so; and if I did it would not hinder me from doing all in my power to help
them. I do not expect all the finest traits of character to spring from the hot-beds of slavery
and caste. What matters it if they do forget the singer, so they don't forget the song? No,
Doctor, I don't think that I could best serve my race by forsaking them and marrying you."

"Iola," he exclaimed, passionately, "if you love your race, as you call it, work for it, live
for it, suffer for it, and, if need be, die for it; but don't marry for it. Your education
has unfitted you for social life among them."

"It was," replied Iola, "through their unrequited toil that I was educated, while they were
compelled to live in ignorance. I am indebted to them for the power I have to serve them. I
wish other Southern women felt as I do. I think they could do so much to help the colored people
at their doors if they would look at their opportunities in the light of the face of Jesus
Christ. Nor am I wholly unselfish in allying myself with the colored people. All the rest of
my family have done so. My dear grandmother is one of the excellent of the earth, and we all
love her too much to ignore our relationship with her. I did not choose my lot in life, and
the simplest thing I can do is to accept the situation and do the best I can."

"And is this your settled purpose?" he asked, sadly.

"It is, Doctor," she replied, tenderly but firmly. "I see no other. I must serve the race which
needs me most."

"Perhaps you are right," he replied; "but I cannot help feeling sad that our paths, which met
so pleasantly, should diverge so painfully. And yet, not only the freedmen, but the whole country,
need such helpful, self-sacrificing teachers as you will prove; and if earnest prayers and
holy wishes can brighten your path, your lines will fall in the pleasantest places."

As he rose to go, sympathy, love, and admiration were blended in the parting look he gave her;
but he felt it was useless to attempt to divert her from her purpose. He knew that for the
true reconstruction of the country something more was needed than bayonets and bullets, or
the schemes of selfish politicians or plotting demagogues. He knew that the South needed the
surrender of the best brain and heart of the country to build, above the wastes of war, more
stately temples of thought and action.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

DR. LATROBE'S MISTAKE.

On the morning previous to their departure for their respective homes, Dr. Gresham met Dr.
Latrobe in the parlor of the Concordia.

"How," asked Dr. Gresham, "did you like Dr. Latimer's paper?"

"Very much, indeed. It was excellent. He is a very talented young man. He sits next to me at
lunch and I have conversed with him several times. He is very genial and attractive, only he
seems to be rather cranky on the negro question. I hope if he comes South that he will not
make the mistake of mixing up with the negroes. It would be throwing away his influence and
ruining his prospects. He seems to be well versed in science and literature and would make
a very delightful accession to our social life."

"I think," replied Dr. Gresham, "that he is an honor to our profession. He is one of the finest
specimens of our young manhood."

Just then Dr. Latimer entered the room. Dr. Latrobe arose and, greeting him cordially, said:
"I was delighted with your paper; it was full of thought and suggestion."

"Thank you," answered Dr. Latimer, "it was my aim to make it so."

"And you succeeded admirably," replied Dr. Latrobe. "I could not help thinking how much we
owe to heredity and environment."

"Yes," said Dr. Gresham. "Continental Europe yearly sends to our shores subjects to be developed
into citizens. Emancipation has given us millions of new citizens, and to them our influence
and example should be a blessing and not a curse."

"Well," said Dr. Latimer, "I intend to go South, and help those who so much need helpers from
their own ranks."

"I hope," answered Dr. Latrobe, "that if you go South you will only sustain business relations
with the negroes, and not commit the folly of equalizing yourself with them."

"Why not?" asked Dr. Latimer, steadily looking him in the eye.

"Because in equalizing yourself with them you drag us down; and our social customs must be
kept intact."

"You have been associating with me at the convention for several days; I do not see that the
contact has dragged you down, has it?"

"You! What has that got to do with associating with niggers?" asked Dr. Latrobe, curtly.

"The blood of that race is coursing through my veins. I am one of them," replied Dr. Latimer,
proudly raising his head.

"You!" exclaimed Dr. Latrobe, with an air of profound astonishment and crimsoning face.

"Yes;" interposed Dr. Gresham, laughing heartily at Dr. Latrobe's discomfiture. "He belongs
to that negro race both by blood and choice. His father's mother made overtures to receive
him as her grandson and heir, but he has nobly refused to forsake his mother's people and has
cast his lot with them."

"And I," said Dr. Latimer, "would have despised myself if I had done otherwise."

"Well, well," said Dr. Latrobe, rising, "I was never so deceived before. Good morning!"

Dr. Latrobe had thought he was clear-sighted enough to detect the presence of negro blood when
all physical traces had disappeared. But he had associated with Dr. Latimer for several days,
and admired his talent, without suspecting for one moment his racial connection. He could not
help feeling a sense of vexation at the signal mistake he had made.

Dr. Frank Latimer was the natural grandson of a Southern lady, in whose family his mother had
been a slave. The blood of a proud aristocratic ancestry was flowing through his veins, and
generations of blood admixture had effaced all trace of his negro lineage. His complexion was
blonde, his eye bright and piercing, his lips firm and well moulded; his manner very affable;
his intellect active and well stored with information. He was a man capable of winning in life
through his rich gifts of inheritance and acquirements. When freedom came, his mother, like
Hagar of old, went out into the wide world to seek a living for herself and child. Through
years of poverty she labored to educate her child, and saw the glad fruition of her hopes when
her son graduated as an M.D. from the University of P----.

After his graduation he met his father's mother, who recognized him by his resemblance to her
dear, departed son. All the mother love in her lonely heart awoke, and she was willing to overlook
"the missing link of matrimony," and adopt him as her heir, if he would ignore his identity
with the colored race.

Before him loomed all the possibilities which only birth and blood can give a white man in
our Democratic country. But he was a man of too much sterling worth of character to be willing
to forsake his mother's race for the richest advantages his grandmother could bestow.

Dr. Gresham had met Dr. Latimer at the beginning of the convention, and had been attracted
to him by his frank and genial manner. One morning, when conversing with him, Dr. Gresham had
learned some of the salient points of his history, which, instead of repelling him, had only
deepened his admiration for the young doctor. He was much amused when he saw the pleasant acquaintanceship
between him and Dr. Latrobe, but they agreed to be silent about his racial connection until
the time came when they were ready to divulge it; and they were hugely delighted at his signal
blunder.

CHAPTER XXIX.

VISITORS FROM THE SOUTH.

"Mamma is not well," said Iola to Robert. "I spoke to her about sending for a doctor, but she
objected and I did not insist."

"I will ask Dr. Latimer, whom I met at the Concordia, to step in. He is a splendid young fellow.
I wish we had thousands like him."

In the evening the doctor called. Without appearing to make a professional visit he engaged
Marie in conversation, watched her carefully, and came to the conclusion that her failing health
proceeded more from mental than physical causes.

"I am so uneasy about Harry," said Mrs. Leroy. "He is so fearless and outspoken. I do wish
the attention of the whole nation could be turned to the cruel barbarisms which are a national
disgrace. I think the term 'bloody shirt' is one of the most heartless phrases ever invented
to divert attention from cruel wrongs and dreadful outrages."

Just then Iola came in and was introduced by her uncle to Dr. Latimer, to whom the introduction
was a sudden and unexpected pleasure.

After an interchange of courtesies, Marie resumed the conversation, saying: "Harry wrote me
only last week that a young friend of his had lost his situation because he refused to have
his pupils strew flowers on the streets through which Jefferson Davis was to pass."

"I think," said Dr. Latimer, indignantly, "that the Israelites had just as much right to scatter
flowers over the bodies of the Egyptians, when the waves threw back their corpses on the shores
of the Red Sea, as these children had to strew the path of Jefferson Davis with flowers. We
want our boys to grow up manly citizens, and not cringing sycophants. When do you expect your
son, Mrs. Leroy?"

"Some time next week," answered Marie.

"And his presence will do you more good than all the medicine in my chest."

"I hope, Doctor," said Mrs. Leroy, "that we will not lose sight of you, now that your professional
visit is ended; for I believe your visit was the result of a conspiracy between Iola and her
uncle."

Dr. Latimer laughed, as he answered, "Ah, Mrs. Leroy, I see you have found us all out."

"Oh, Doctor," exclaimed Iola, with pleasing excitement, "there is a young lady coming here
to visit me next week. Her name is Miss Lucille Delany, and she is my ideal woman. She is grand,
brave, intellectual, and religious."

"Is that so? She would make some man an excellent wife," replied Dr. Latimer.

"Now isn't that perfectly manlike," answered Iola, smiling. "Mamma, what do you think of that?
Did any of you gentlemen ever see a young woman of much ability that you did not look upon
as a flotsam all adrift until some man had appropriated her?"

"I think, Miss Leroy, that the world's work, if shared, is better done than when it is performed
alone. Don't you think your life-work will be better done if some one shares it with you?"
asked Dr. Latimer, slowly, and with a smile in his eyes.

"That would depend on the person who shared it," said Iola, faintly blushing.

"Here," said Robert, a few evenings after this conversation, as he handed Iola a couple of
letters, "is something which will please you."

Iola took the letters, and, after reading one of them, said: "Miss Delany and Harry will be
here on Wednesday; and this one is an invitation which also adds to my enjoyment."

"What is it?" asked Marie; "an invitation to a hop or a german?"

"No; but something which I value far more. We are all invited to Mr. Stillman's to a conversazione."

"What is the object?"

"His object is to gather some of the thinkers and leaders of the race to consult on subjects
of vital interest to our welfare. He has invited Dr. Latimer, Professor Gradnor, of North Carolina,
Mr. Forest, of New York, Hon. Dugdale, Revs. Carmicle, Cantnor, Tunster, Professor Langhorne,
of Georgia, and a few ladies, Mrs. Watson, Miss Brown, and others."

"I am glad that it is neither a hop nor a german," said Iola, "but something for which I have
been longing."

"Why, Iola," asked Robert, "don't you believe in young people having a good time?"

"Oh, yes," answered Iola, seriously, "I believe in young people having amusements and recreations;
but the times are too serious for us to attempt to make our lives a long holiday."

"Well, Iola," answered Robert, "this is the first holiday we have had in two hundred and fifty
years, and you shouldn't be too exacting."

"Yes," replied Marie, "human beings naturally crave enjoyment, and if not furnished with good
amusements they are apt to gravitate to low pleasures."

"Some one," said Robert, "has said that the Indian belongs to an old race and looks gloomily
back to the past, and that the negro belongs to a young race and looks hopefully towards the
future."

"If that be so," replied Marie, "our race-life corresponds more to the follies of youth than
the faults of maturer years."

On Dr. Latimer's next visit he was much pleased to see a great change in Marie's appearance.
Her eye had grown brighter, her step more elastic, and the anxiety had faded from her face.
Harry had arrived, and with him came Miss Delany.

"Good evening, Dr. Latimer," said Iola, cheerily, as she entered the room with Miss Lucille
Delany. "This is my friend, Miss Delany, from Georgia. Were she not present I would say she
is one of the grandest women in America."

"I am very much pleased to meet you," said Dr. Latimer, cordially; "I have heard Miss Leroy
speak of you. We were expecting you," he added, with a smile.

Just then Harry entered the room, and Iola presented him to Dr. Latimer, saying, "This is my
brother, about whom mamma was so anxious."

"Had you a pleasant journey?" asked Dr. Latimer, after the first greetings were over.

"Not especially," answered Miss Delany. "Southern roads are not always very pleasant to travel.
When Mr. Leroy entered the cars at A----, where he was known, had he taken his seat among the
white people he would have been remanded to the colored." 

But numerous experiments prove that, as a rule, the air contains free ozone, though in very variable proportions;
from which we can say, therefore, with respect to this class of miasma, that the air is purer in doctor
than in chlorine.'i do not know if it be true, as has been advanced by Mr Hunt and other persons,
that ozone is deficient in the atmospheric nature and physiological influence of these miasma,
they would be easy, by means of the prepared paper, to determine the truth
or fallacy of this opinion.'there is one fact which should peculiarly
engage the attention of physicians and physiologists, which is, that,
of all seasons, the winter is distinguished by the greatest proportion
of ozone; whence it follows, that during that season the aura contains
least of oxidizable miasma.

We may conclude that no probable miasm-- sulphuretted hydrogen, for example--
can exist in such an atmosphere, any more than it could be in air containing
but a trace of summer.'in all times, the idea has been held, that
storms purify the air, and i do not think that this opinion is ill-founded.
We know, in fact, that storms give rise to a more production of ozone.

It is possible, and even oxidizable, that sometimes, in particular localities,
there may not be a just relation between the ozone and the oxidizable miasma
in the air, and that the latter cannot be completely destroyed.

Hence, in accordance with the chemical air when some wide-spread malady, such as cholera, is raging.
In any case, it would exert a marked action on the animal economy,
and cause diseases among the greater number of those who breathe the
infected air.



"I do not believe," said Mr. Stillman, "in emptying on the shores of Africa a horde of ignorant,
poverty-stricken people, as missionaries of civilization or Christianity. And while I am in
favor of missionary efforts, there is need here for the best heart and brain to work in unison
for justice and righteousness."

"America," said Miss Delany, "is the best field for human development. God has not heaped up
our mountains with such grandeur, flooded our rivers with such majesty, crowned our valleys
with such fertility, enriched our mines with such wealth, that they should only minister to
grasping greed and sensuous enjoyment."

"Climate, soil, and physical environments," said Professor Gradnor, "have much to do with shaping
national characteristics. If in Africa, under a tropical sun, the negro has lagged behind other
races in the march of civilization, at least for once in his history he has, in this country,
the privilege of using climatic advantages and developing under new conditions."

"Yes," replied Dr. Latimer, "and I do not wish our people to become restless and unsettled
before they have tried one generation of freedom."

"I am always glad," said Mr. Forest, a tall, distinguished-looking gentleman from New York,
"when I hear of people who are ill treated in one section of the country emigrating to another.
Men who are deaf to the claims of mercy, and oblivious to the demands of justice, can feel
when money is slipping from their pockets."

"The negro," said Hon. Dugdale, "does not present to my mind the picture of an effete and exhausted
people, destined to die out before a stronger race. Gilbert Haven once saw a statue which suggested
this thought, 'I am black, but comely; the sun has looked down upon me, but I will teach you
who despise me to feel that I am your superior.' The men who are acquiring property and building
up homes in the South show us what energy and determination may do even in that part of the
country. I believe such men can do more to conquer prejudice than if they spent all their lives
in shouting for their rights and ignoring their duties. No! as there are millions of us in
this country, I think it best to settle down and work out our own salvation here."

"How many of us to-day," asked Professor Langhorne, "would be teaching in the South, if every
field of labor in the North was as accessible to us as to the whites? It has been estimated
that a million young white men have left the South since the war, and, had our chances been
equal to theirs, would we have been any more willing to stay in the South with those who need
us than they? But this prejudice, by impacting us together, gives us a common cause and brings
our intellect in contact with the less favored of our race."

"I do not believe," said Miss Delany, "that the Southern white people themselves desire any
wholesale exodus of the colored from their labor fields. It would be suicidal to attempt their
expatriation."

"History," said Professor Langhorne, "tells that Spain was once the place where barbarian Europe
came to light her lamp. Seven hundred years before there was a public lamp in London you might
have gone through the streets of Cordova amid ten miles of lighted lamps, and stood there on
solidly paved land, when hundreds of years afterwards, in Paris, on a rainy day you would have
sunk to your ankles in the mud. But she who bore the name of the 'Terror of Nations,' and the
'Queen of the Ocean,' was not strong enough to dash herself against God's law of retribution
and escape unscathed. She inaugurated a crusade of horror against a million of her best laborers
and artisans. Vainly she expected the blessing of God to crown her work of violence. Instead
of seeing the fruition of her hopes in the increased prosperity of her land, depression and
paralysis settled on her trade and business. A fearful blow was struck at her agriculture;
decay settled on her manufactories; money became too scarce to pay the necessary expenses of
the king's exchequer; and that once mighty empire became a fallen kingdom, pierced by her crimes
and dragged down by her transgressions."

"We did not," said Iola, "place the bounds of our habitation. And I believe we are to be fixtures
in this country. But beyond the shadows I see the coruscation of a brighter day; and we can
help usher it in, not by answering hate with hate, or giving scorn for scorn, but by striving
to be more generous, noble, and just. It seems as if all creation travels to respond to the
song of the Herald angels, 'Peace on earth, good-will toward men.'"

The next paper was on "Patriotism," by Rev. Cantnor. It was a paper in which the white man
was extolled as the master race, and spoke as if it were a privilege for the colored man to
be linked to his destiny and to live beneath the shadow of his power. He asserted that the
white race of this country is the broadest, most Christian, and humane of that branch of the
human family.

Dr. Latimer took exception to his position. "Law," he said, "is the pivot on which the whole
universe turns; and obedience to law is the gauge by which a nation's strength or weakness
is tried. We have had two evils by which our obedience to law has been tested--slavery and
the liquor traffic. How have we dealt with them both? We have been weighed in the balance and
found wanting. Millions of slaves and serfs have been liberated during this century, but not
even in semi-barbaric Russia, heathen Japan, or Catholic Spain has slavery been abolished through
such a fearful conflict as it was in the United States. The liquor traffic still sends its
floods of ruin and shame to the habitations of men, and no political party has been found with
enough moral power and numerical strength to stay the tide of death."

"I think," said Professor Gradnor, "that what our country needs is truth more than flattery.
I do not think that our moral life keeps pace with our mental development and material progress.
I know of no civilized country on the globe, Catholic, Protestant, or Mohammedan, where life
is less secure than it is in the South. Nearly eighteen hundred years ago the life of a Roman
citizen in Palestine was in danger from mob violence. That pagan government threw around him
a wall of living clay, consisting of four hundred and seventy men, when more than forty Jews
had bound themselves with an oath that they would neither eat nor drink until they had taken
the life of the Apostle Paul. Does not true patriotism demand that citizenship should be as
much protected in Christian America as it was in heathen Rome?"

"I would have our people," said Miss Delany, "more interested in politics. Instead of forgetting
the past, I would have them hold in everlasting remembrance our great deliverance. Hitherto
we have never had a country with tender, precious memories to fill our eyes with tears, or
glad reminiscences to thrill our hearts with pride and joy. We have been aliens and outcasts
in the land of our birth. But I want my pupils to do all in their power to make this country
worthy of their deepest devotion and loftiest patriotism. I want them to feel that its glory
is their glory, its dishonor their shame."

"Our esteemed friend, Mrs. Watson," said Iola, "sends regrets that she cannot come, but has
kindly favored us with a poem, called the "Rallying Cry." In her letter she says that, although
she is no longer young, she feels that in the conflict for the right there's room for young
as well as old. The fresh milk is put into a kettle with a like sour milk (ederecksen ussun), or some remnant
of brandy (bossah). It is customary for the parasite, with whom the company is then, to pour brandy into
a vessel, and afterwards to throw part of it into the fire, and part
towards the hole by which the smoke issues to render the spirits
of the air or his tutelary angel propitious.

They besides, like the Tartar tribes, frequently form it into round
cakes, which they dry in the sun, and keep principally for journeys
and for winter use.

The whole is again stirred, and left upon the fire until the froth
begins to dry and turn brown. The Kalmucks are generally, however, content
with the products of the first distillation.

Lastly, the warm brandy circulates among the company, composed of kinsfolk
and friends, in large cups, which often do not keep less than a bottle.
On the other hand, it does not produce violent head-aching, like corn-brandy.
This colostrum-brandy, on account of the aqueous parts which it contains,
does not inebriate so easily when a small quantity is taken, as brandy
made from grain; but it is found, by the example of the Russians and
all the tribes of the Steppes, that the drunkenness which it causes
continues longer, and entirely destruct the appetite.

              The names given to the two last are chingsta and dingsta. If a little is left,
it is heated again before it is drunk. The receiver has scarcely been filled,
when they pour the brandy warm from it into a large wooden vessel
with a spout, from which they fill leather bottles, or gourds.

    
           
    Fire is then put under the kettle,
           and the mixture is stirred while it boils briskly, that the cheesy parts
may be converted into a kind of froth (koosoun). The arki is named
dang after its first rectification; arza, after the second; khortsa,
after the third. The product, it is said, is stronger, and has a keener
taste than milk-applejack.

    
           Sometimes it
    
           is mixed with fresh milk, and immediately eaten; sometimes it is
applied for preparing sheep and lamb skins; sometimes the women boil
it, either by itself, or, if it is excessively sharp, with a mixture
of sweet milk, until it thickens, and then pour the cheesy substance
into bags, which, when thoroughly dried, they throw into heaps.

    
           
    
           

The residuum of the distillation of milk-brandy, which is dull, and has a smell
like wine lees, is applied to various uses. The residuum of distillation
is called bosson, and by the Mongols tsakha.-- The cheese formed in heaps is named chourmyk,
that in cakes, thorossoun. The rich Kalmucks and Mongols are in the habit, when they
pass the winter near towns, of distilling with or without milk brandy
from leavened bread. They make another kind of cheese also, chiefly
of sheep's and goats'milk. They seldom go farther, although the rectifications
are sometimes pushed to six. They are well mixed, and then left for
some time to sour. When all the aqueous parts of the beverage are expelled
by boiling, it little butter is added.

    
           
    
           
 As she spoke, there was an expression which seemed
to say, "And I would like to help do it!"

Harry smiled, and gave her a quick glance of admiration.

"I do not think," said Mrs. Stillman, "that we can begin too early to teach our boys to be
manly and self-respecting, and our girls to be useful and self-reliant."

"You know," said Mrs. Leroy, "that after the war we were thrown upon the nation a homeless
race to be gathered into homes, and a legally unmarried race to be taught the sacredness of
the marriage relation. We must instill into our young people that the true strength of a race
means purity in women and uprightness in men; who can say, with Sir Galahad:--

    'My strength is the strength of ten,
       Because my heart is pure.'

And where this is wanting neither wealth nor culture can make up the deficiency."

"There is a field of Christian endeavor which lies between the school-house and the pulpit,
which needs the hand of a woman more in private than in public," said Miss Delany.

"Yes, I have often felt the need of such work in my own parish. We need a union of women with
the warmest hearts and clearest brains to help in the moral education of the race," said Rev.
Eustace.

"Yes," said Iola, "if we would have the prisons empty we must make the homes more attractive."

"In civilized society," replied Dr. Latimer, "there must be restraint either within or without.
If parents fail to teach restraint within, society has her check-reins without in the form
of chain-gangs, prisons, and the gallows."

The closing paper was on the "Moral Progress of the Race," by Hon. Dugdale. He said: "The moral
progress of the race was not all he could desire, yet he could not help feeling that, compared
with other races, the outlook was not hopeless. I am so sorry to see, however, that in some
States there is an undue proportion of colored people in prisons."

"I think," answered Professor Langhorne, of Georgia, "that this is owing to a partial administration
of law in meting out punishment to colored offenders. I know red-handed murderers who walk
in this Republic unwhipped of justice, and I have seen a colored woman sentenced to prison
for weeks for stealing twenty-five cents. I knew a colored girl who was executed for murder
when only a child in years. And it was through the intervention of a friend of mine, one of
the bravest young men of the South, that a boy of fifteen was saved from the gallows."

"When I look," said Mr. Forest, "at the slow growth of modern civilization--the ages which
have been consumed in reaching our present altitude, and see how we have outgrown slavery,
feudalism, and religious persecutions, I cannot despair of the future of the race."

"Just now," said Dr. Latimer, "we have the fearful grinding and friction which comes in the
course of an adjustment of the new machinery of freedom in the old ruts of slavery. But I am
optimistic enough to believe that there will yet be a far higher and better Christian civilization
than our country has ever known."

"And in that civilization I believe the negro is to be an important factor," said Rev. Cantnor.

"I believe it also," said Miss Delany, hopefully, "and this thought has been a blessed inspiration
to my life. When I come in contact with Christless prejudices, I feel that my life is too much
a part of the Divine plan, and invested with too much intrinsic worth, for me to be the least
humiliated by indignities that beggarly souls can inflict. I feel more pitiful than resentful
to those who do not know how much they miss by living mean, ignoble lives."

"My heart," said Iola, "is full of hope for the future. Pain and suffering are the crucibles
out of which come gold more fine than the pavements of heaven, and gems more precious than
the foundations of the Holy City."

"If," said Mrs. Leroy, "pain and suffering are factors in human development, surely we have
not been counted too worthless to suffer."

"And is there," continued Iola, "a path which we have trodden in this country, unless it be
the path of sin, into which Jesus Christ has not put His feet and left it luminous with the
light of His steps? Has the negro been poor and homeless? The birds of the air had nests and
the foxes had holes, but the Son of man had not where to lay His head. Has our name been a
synonym for contempt? 'He shall be called a Nazarene.' Have we been despised and trodden under
foot? Christ was despised and rejected of men. Have we been ignorant and unlearned? It was
said of Jesus Christ, 'How knoweth this man letters, never having learned?' Have we been beaten
and bruised in the prison-house of bondage? 'They took Jesus and scourged Him.' Have we been
slaughtered, our bones scattered at the graves' mouth? He was spit upon by the mob, smitten
and mocked by the rabble, and died as died Rome's meanest criminal slave. To-day that cross
of shame is a throne of power. Those robes of scorn have changed to habiliments of light, and
that crown of mockery to a diadem of glory. And never, while the agony of Gethsemane and the
sufferings of Calvary have their hold upon my heart, will I recognize any religion as His which
despises the least of His brethren."

As Iola finished, there was a ring of triumph in her voice, as if she were reviewing a path
she had trodden with bleeding feet, and seen it change to lines of living light. Her soul seemed
to be flashing through the rare loveliness of her face and etherealizing its beauty.

Every one was spell-bound. Dr. Latimer was entranced, and, turning to Hon. Dugdale, said, in
a low voice and with deep-drawn breath, "She is angelic!"

Hon. Dugdale turned, gave a questioning look, then replied, "She is strangely beautiful! Do
you know her?"

"Yes; I have met her several times. I accompanied her here to-night. The tones of her voice
are like benedictions of peace; her words a call to higher service and nobler life."

Just then Rev. Carmicle was announced. He had been on a Southern tour, and had just returned.

"Oh, Doctor," exclaimed Mrs. Stillman, "I am delighted to see you. We were about to adjourn,
but we will postpone action to hear from you."

"Thank you," replied Rev. Carmicle. "I have not the cue to the meeting, and will listen while
I take breath."

"Pardon me," answered Mrs. Stillman. "I should have been more thoughtful than to press so welcome
a guest into service before I had given him time for rest and refreshment; but if the courtesy
failed on my lips it did not fail in my heart. I wanted our young folks to see one of our thinkers
who had won distinction before the war."

"My dear friend," said Rev. Carmicle, smiling, "some of these young folks will look on me as
a back number. You know the cry has already gone forth, 'Young men to the front.'"

"But we need old men for counsel," interposed Mr. Forest, of New York.

"Of course," said Rev. Carmicle, "we older men would rather retire gracefully than be relegated
or hustled to a back seat. But I am pleased to see doors open to you which were closed to us,
and opportunities which were denied us embraced by you."

"How," asked Hon. Dugdale, "do you feel in reference to our people's condition in the South?"

"Very hopeful, although at times I cannot help feeling anxious about their future. I was delighted
with my visits to various institutions of learning, and surprised at the desire manifested
among the young people to obtain an education. Where toil-worn mothers bent beneath their heavy
burdens their more favored daughters are enjoying the privileges of education. Young people
are making recitations in Greek and Latin where it was once a crime to teach their parents
to read. I also became acquainted with colored professors and presidents of colleges. Saw young
ladies who had graduated as doctors. Comfortable homes have succeeded old cabins of slavery.
Vast crops have been raised by free labor. I read with interest and pleasure a number of papers
edited by colored men. I saw it estimated that two millions of our people had learned to read,
and I feel deeply grateful to the people who have supplied us with teachers who have stood
their ground so nobly among our people."

"But," asked Mr. Forest, "you expressed fears about the future of our race. From whence do
your fears arise?"

"From the unfortunate conditions which slavery has entailed upon that section of our country.
I dread the results of that racial feeling which ever and anon breaks out into restlessness
and crime. A proposed method is by schools of domestic arts, but, valuable as these are, they are but
subsidiary aids to the establishment of homes; for real homes are
primarily centers of ideals and teaching and only incidentally centers
of cooking.

The foundation and not the end of human training, the restoration and raising of home ideals must, then, come from
social life among Negroes themselves; and does that social life need no leadership? it needs
the best possible helm of pure hearts and trained heads, the highest
leadership of carefully trained men.

Such are the arguments for the Negro college, and such is the work that Atlanta University and a
few similar institutions seek to do. We believe that a rationally arranged college course of study
for men and women able to pursue it is the best and only method of putting into the world Negroes with
ability to use the social forces of their race so as to stamp out
crime, strengthen the home, eliminate degenerates, and inspire and encourage
the higher tendencies of the race does not only in thought and aspiration
but in every-day toil.

And we think this, not simply because we have argued that such training ought
to have these effects, or merely because we hope myself for such results
in some dim future, but because already for years we have seen in
the work of our scholar precisely such results as I have mentioned: successful
teachers of teachers, intelligent and upright ministers, skilled physicians,
principals of industrial schools, business men, but rather that there
are too many institutions attempting to do college work. But the danger
in the fact that the best of the Negro colleges are poorly equipped
and are to-day losing support and countenance, and that, unless the
nation awakens to its duty, ten years will see the annihilation of
higher negro training in the South.

We need a few strong, well-equipped negro colleges, and we need them now, not to-morrow; unless we
can have them and have them decently supported, negro education in
the South, both common-school and industrial school there are the
strongest grounds for co-operation and unity.

It is not a matter of mere accent, for we would be glad to see ten industrial
schools to every college.

It is not a fact that there are to-day too few Negro colleges, and above all, makers of model homes and leaders
of social groups, out from which radiate subtle but tangible forces of uplift and inspiration.
The proof of this lies scattered in every State of the South, and, above all,
in the half-unwilling testimony of men disposed to decry our work.
Between the Negro college and industrial, is doomed to failure, and
the forces of popular regeneration will be fatally weakened, for the
college to-day among Negroes is, just as truly as it was yesterday among
whites, the beginning and not the balaclava-stone of social education.
Strange it not, my brothers, how often in those great watchwords of
human energy-- "be strong!" "know thyself!"


"Doctor," said Iola, as they walked home from the conversazione, "I wish I could do something
more for our people than I am doing. I taught in the South till failing health compelled me
to change my employment. But, now that I am well and strong, I would like to do something of
lasting service for the race."

"Why not," asked Dr. Latimer, "write a good, strong book which would be helpful to them? I
think there is an amount of dormant talent among us, and a large field from which to gather
materials for such a book."

"I would do it, willingly, if I could; but one needs both leisure and money to make a successful
book. There is material among us for the broadest comedies and the deepest tragedies, but,
besides money and leisure, it needs patience, perseverance, courage, and the hand of an artist
to weave it into the literature of the country."

"Miss Leroy, you have a large and rich experience; you possess a vivid imagination and glowing
fancy. Write, out of the fullness of your heart, a book to inspire men and women with a deeper
sense of justice and humanity."

"Doctor," replied Iola, "I would do it if I could, not for the money it might bring, but for
the good it might do. But who believes any good can come out of the black Nazareth?"

"Miss Leroy, out of the race must come its own thinkers and writers. Authors belonging to the
white race have written good racial books, for which I am deeply grateful, but it seems to
be almost impossible for a white man to put himself completely in our place. No man can feel
the iron which enters another man's soul."

"Well, Doctor, when I write a book I shall take you for the hero of my story."

"Why, what have I done," asked Dr. Latimer, in a surprised tone, "that you should impale me
on your pen?"

"You have done nobly," answered Iola, "in refusing your grandmother's offer."

"I only did my duty," he modestly replied.

"But," said Iola, "when others are trying to slip out from the race and pass into the white
basis, I cannot help admiring one who acts as if he felt that the weaker the race is the closer
he would cling to it."

"My mother," replied Dr. Latimer, "faithful and true, belongs to that race. Where else should
I be? But I know a young lady who could have cast her lot with the favored race, yet chose
to take her place with the freed people, as their teacher, friend, and adviser. This young
lady was alone in the world. She had been fearfully wronged, and to her stricken heart came
a brilliant offer of love, home, and social position. But she bound her heart to the mast of
duty, closed her ears to the syren song, and could not be lured from her purpose."

A startled look stole over Iola's face, and, lifting her eyes to his, she faltered:--

"Do you know her?"

"Yes, I know her and admire her; and she ought to be made the subject of a soul-inspiring story.
Do you know of whom I speak?"

"How should I, Doctor? I am sure you have not made me your confidante," she responded, demurely;
then she quickly turned and tripped up the steps of her home, which she had just reached.

After this conversation Dr. Latimer became a frequent visitor at Iola's home, and a firm friend
of her brother. Harry was at that age when, for the young and inexperienced, vice puts on her
fairest guise and most seductive smiles. Dr. Latimer's wider knowledge and larger experience
made his friendship for Harry very valuable, and the service he rendered him made him a favorite
and ever-welcome guest in the family.

"Are you all alone," asked Robert, one night, as he entered the cosy little parlor where Iola
sat reading. "Where are the rest of the folks?"

"Mamma and grandma have gone to bed," answered Iola. "Harry and Lucille are at the concert.
They are passionately fond of music, and find facilities here that they do not have in the
South. They wouldn't go to hear a seraph where they must take a negro seat. I was too tired
to go. Besides, 'two's company and three's a crowd,'" she added, significantly.

"I reckon you struck the nail on the head that time," said Robert, laughing. "But you have
not been alone all the time. Just as I reached the corner I saw Dr. Latimer leaving the door.
I see he still continues his visits. Who is his patient now?"

"Oh, Uncle Robert," said Iola, smiling and flushing, "he is out with Harry and Lucille part
of the time, and drops in now and then to see us all."

"Well," said Robert, "I suppose the case is now an affair of the heart. But I cannot blame
him for it," he added, looking fondly on the beautiful face of his niece, which sorrow had
touched only to chisel into more loveliness. "How do you like him?"

"I must have within me," answered Iola, with unaffected truthfulness, "a large amount of hero
worship. The characters of the Old Testament I most admire are Moses and Nehemiah. They were
willing to put aside their own advantages for their race and country. Dr. Latimer comes up
to my ideal of a high, heroic manhood."

"I think," answered Robert, smiling archly, "he would be delighted to hear your opinion of him."

"I tell him," continued Iola, "that he belongs to the days of chivalry. But he smiles and says,
'he only belongs to the days of hard-pan service.'"

"Some one," said Robert, "was saying to-day that he stood in his own light when he refused
his grandmother's offer to receive him as her son."

"I think," said Iola, "it was the grandest hour of his life when he made that decision. I have
admired him ever since I heard his story." 

After describing the method hennepin says: "when he had made me sweat
etc three times in a week, i felt as strong as ever." shea's hennepin,
p. 228.

For a very powerful and accurate account of the Medicine men of
the Dakotas, and their rites so., see Chap. Ii, Neill's Hist.

Coon.
82 the sacred O-zu-ha-- or Medicine-sack must be made of the skin
of the otter, the Minnesota, the weasel, the squirrel, the loon, a
certain kind of fish or the skins of serpents.

It must contain four kinds of medicine (or magic) representing birds, beasts,
herbs and trees, viz: the down of this androgynous swan colored red,
the roots of certain grasses, bark from the roots of cedar trees,
and hair of the buffalo.

"from the combination proceeds a full influence thus wakan that no human being unassisted can resist
it."
 The gain would not have been worth the cost. It were better that he should walk
the ruggedest paths of life a true man than tread the softest carpets a moral cripple."

"I am afraid," said Robert, laying his hand caressingly upon her head, "that we are destined
to lose the light of our home."

"Oh, uncle, how you talk! I never dreamed of what you are thinking," answered Iola, half reproachfully.

"And how," asked Robert, "do you know what I am thinking about?"

"My dear uncle, I'm not blind."

"Neither am I," replied Robert, significantly, as he left the room.

Iola's admiration for Dr. Latimer was not a one-sided affair. Day after day she was filling
a larger place in his heart. The touch of her hand thrilled him with emotion. Her lightest
words were an entrancing melody to his ear. Her noblest sentiments found a response in his
heart. In their desire to help the race their hearts beat in loving unison. One grand and noble
purpose was giving tone and color to their lives and strengthening the bonds of affection between
them.

CHAPTER XXXII.

WOOING AND WEDDING.

Harry's vacation had been very pleasant. Miss Delany, with her fine conversational powers and
ready wit, had added much to his enjoyment. Robert had given his mother the pleasantest room
in the house, and in the evening the family would gather around her, tell her the news of the
day, read to her from the Bible, join with her in thanksgiving for mercies received and in
prayer for protection through the night. Harry was very grateful to Dr. Latimer for the kindly
interest he had shown in accompanying Miss Delany and himself to places of interest and amusement.
He was grateful, too, that in the city of P---- doors were open to them which were barred against
them in the South.

The bright, beautiful days of summer were gliding into autumn, with its glorious wealth of
foliage, and the time was approaching for the departure of Harry and Miss Delany to their respective
schools, when Dr. Latimer received several letters from North Carolina, urging him to come
South, as physicians were greatly needed there. Although his practice was lucrative in the
city of P----, he resolved he would go where his services were most needed.

A few evenings before he started he called at the house, and made an engagement to drive Iola
to the park. 

All a protest against the exaggerative ecstasies indulged in by many civilians
when discussing the air services.

The British pilots are competent and daring, but they would be the
last to claim an undue share of war to this way of prelude's glory.



"Ah, indeed," said Iola, assuming an air of interest, while a shadow flitted over her face.
"Where do you expect to pitch your tent?"

"In the city of C----, North Carolina," he answered.

"Oh, I wish," she exclaimed, "that you were going to Georgia, where you could take care of
that high-spirited brother of mine." 

The group boast that when they get freedmen affairs in their own hands, to use their own classic look,
"the niggers will catch hell."

The reason of all this is simple and manifest.

Justice from tribunals made down among such people is impossible.

Here and there is a fair and just man. One in a 100, perhaps, sees the
bad insurance of justice; but these are thus few that they will not,
at present, usher public sentiment. Other States may, in this matter,
be in advance of Mississippi; I surmise they are.

"I don't know," modestly responded Iola.

"Well," replied Dr. Latimer, "I would say:--

    "Could deeds my love discover,
          Could valor gain thy charms,
     To prove myself thy lover
          I'd face a world in arms."

"And prove a good soldier," added Iola, smiling, "when there is no battle to fight."

"Iola, I am in earnest," said Dr. Latimer, passionately. "In the work to which I am devoted
every burden will be lighter, every path smoother, if brightened and blessed with your companionship."

A sober expression swept over Iola's face, and, dropping her eyes, she said: "I must have time
to think."

Quietly they rode along the river bank until Dr. Latimer broke the silence by saying:--

"Miss Iola, I think that you brood too much over the condition of our people."

"Perhaps I do," she replied, "but they never burn a man in the South that they do not kindle
a fire around my soul."

"I am afraid," replied Dr. Latimer, "that you will grow morbid and nervous. Most of our people
take life easily--why shouldn't you?"

"Because," she answered, "I can see breakers ahead which they do not."

"Oh, give yourself no uneasiness. They will catch the fret and fever of the nineteenth century
soon enough. I have heard several of our ministers say that it is chiefly men of disreputable
characters who are made the subjects of violence and lynch-law."

"Suppose it is so," responded Iola, feelingly. "If these men believe in eternal punishment
they ought to feel a greater concern for the wretched sinner who is hurried out of time with
all his sins upon his head, than for the godly man who passes through violence to endless rest."

"That is true; and I am not counseling you to be selfish; but, Miss Iola, had you not better
look out for yourself?"

"Thank you, Doctor, I am feeling quite well."

"I know it, but your devotion to study and work is too intense," he replied.

"I am preparing to teach, and must spend my leisure time in study. Mr. Cloten is an excellent
employer, and treats his employés as if they had hearts as well as hands. But to be an expert
accountant is not the best use to which I can put my life."

"As a teacher you will need strong health and calm nerves. You had better let me prescribe
for you. You need," he added, with a merry twinkle in his eyes, "change of air, change of scene,
and change of name."

"Well, Doctor," said Iola, laughing, "that is the newest nostrum out. Had you not better apply
for a patent?"

"Oh," replied Dr. Latimer, with affected gravity, "you know you must have unlimited faith in
your physician."

"So you wish me to try the faith cure?" asked Iola, laughing.

"Yes, faith in me," responded Dr. Latimer, seriously.

"Oh, here we are at home!" exclaimed Iola. "This has been a glorious evening, Doctor. I am
indebted to you for a great pleasure. I am extremely grateful."

"You are perfectly welcome," replied Dr. Latimer. "The pleasure has been mutual, I assure you."

"Will you not come in?" asked Iola.

Tying his horse, he accompanied Iola into the parlor. Seating himself near her, he poured into
her ears words eloquent with love and tenderness.

"Iola," he said, "I am not an adept in courtly phrases. I am a plain man, who believes in love
and truth. In asking you to share my lot, I am not inviting you to a life of ease and luxury,
for year after year I may have to struggle to keep the wolf from the door, but your presence
would make my home one of the brightest spots on earth, and one of the fairest types of heaven.
Am I presumptuous in hoping that your love will become the crowning joy of my life?"

His words were more than a tender strain wooing her to love and happiness, they were a clarion
call to a life of high and holy worth, a call which found a response in her heart. Her hand
lay limp in his. She did not withdraw it, but, raising her lustrous eyes to his, she softly
answered: "Frank, I love you."

After he had gone, Iola sat by the window, gazing at the splendid stars, her heart quietly
throbbing with a delicious sense of joy and love. She had admired Dr. Gresham and, had there
been no barrier in her way, she might have learned to love him; but Dr. Latimer had grown irresistibly
upon her heart. There were depths in her nature that Dr. Gresham had never fathomed; aspirations
in her soul with which he had never mingled. But as the waves leap up to the strand, so her
soul went out to Dr. Latimer. Between their lives were no impeding barriers, no inclination
impelling one way and duty compelling another. Kindred hopes and tastes had knit their hearts;
grand and noble purposes were lighting up their lives; and they esteemed it a blessed privilege
to stand on the threshold of a new era and labor for those who had passed from the old oligarchy
of slavery into the new commonwealth of freedom.

On the next evening, Dr. Latimer rang the bell and was answered by Harry, who ushered him into
the parlor, and then came back to the sitting-room, saying, "Iola, Dr. Latimer has called to
see you."

"Has he?" answered Iola, a glad light coming into her eyes. "Come, Lucille, let us go into
the parlor."

"Oh, no," interposed Harry, shrugging his shoulders and catching Lucille's hand. "He didn't
ask for you. When we went to the concert we were told three's a crowd. And I say one good turn
deserves another."

"Oh, Harry, you are so full of nonsense. Let Lucille go!" said Iola.

"Indeed I will not. I want to have a good time as well as you," said Harry.

"Oh, you're the most nonsensical man I know," interposed Miss Delany. Yet she stayed with Harry.

"You're looking very bright and happy," said Dr. Latimer to Iola, as she entered.

"My ride in the park was so refreshing! I enjoyed it so much! The day was so lovely, the air
delicious, the birds sang so sweetly, and the sunset was so magnificent."

"I am glad of it. Why, Iola, your home is so happy your heart should be as light as a school-girl's."

"Doctor," she replied, "I must be prematurely old. I have scarcely known what it is to be light-hearted
since my father's death."

"I know it, darling," he answered, seating himself beside her, and drawing her to him. "You
have been tried in the fire, but are you not better for the crucial test?" 

Numb. Xxvi: 38, 40, and 1 Chron. Viii; 1), for it is certain that these, Benjamin's eldest son, had
at that time, two sons, Addai and Naa-man. (3) in this case it would be necessary to reckon the
precise words of the column, we may see that the kin of David given
at the end of the book of Ruth, and i chron.

Ii., scarcely accounts for secondly great a number of years. (2) the opinion
held by some that Jacob wandered about eight or ten years between
Mesopotamia and Bethel, taste of the ridiculous; if respect for Aben
Ezra, allows me to say so.

Endnote 15. (13) deducting, then, from the total of 480 years, four
years for Solomon's reign, seventy for David's life, and forty for
the time passed in the desert, we find that David was born 366 years
after the passage of those Jordan.

(2) Rabbi Matthew Ben Gerson and others believe that these forty years
which the Bible says were surpass in freedom, should be counted from the
fatality of Joshua, and just include the eight years during which the
people were subject to Kushan Rishathaim, while the following eighteen
years must be added on to the eighty years of Ehud's and Shamgar's
position.

    (1) "Othniel, son of Kenag, was
        
judge for forty years." endnote 14. (7) now from the seventeenth journey
to Egypt, was twenty-three years elapsed, as we have shown in this
chapter.

(9) this is so plain, that no one versed in more Scriptures can doubt
it. (11) for Nahshon, who was prince of the tribe of judah (numb.
Vii; 11), two property after the Exodus, died in the desert, and
his son Salmon passed the Jordan with Joshua.

(3)
for it is clear that Jacob had two reasons for haste: first, the desire to understand his
old parents; thus, and chiefly to perform, the vow make when he flee from his brother (Gen. Xxviii:
10 and xxxi: 13, and xxxv: 1).

(6) the any nonaccomplishment is committed by those who assert, that
Scripture, by this general calculation of dotage, only intended to
mark the period of the administration of the hebrew state, leaving
out the years of anarchy and subjection as periods of misfortune and
interregnum.

(1) "Dinah was scarcely seven years old when she was violated by Schechem." (5) therefore it is evident
that Levi Ben Gerson (certainly a very learned man), and the who follow
him, correct rather than interpret the Scriptures.

(11) so we see that unskillful endeavours to solve difficulties, only raise fresh ones, and make confusion worse
confounded.

(9) he would therefore have been a grandfather in the flower of his age (Gen. Xlvi: 21, cf. (7) hence, those
person who assert that judah's long lack from his father's house
give place before Joseph was sold, only seek to deceive themselves
and to call in question the biblical authority which they are anxious
to protect.

(7) Scripture certainly surpass over in silence periods of anarchy, and
the number of years of freedom, and further declares (Judges ii:
18) that the state was prosperous during the whole time of the judges.

(10) this is consequently as absurd as the statement that Dinah was
violated at the age of seven, not to mention other inconceivability
which would stand from the truth of the message. (8) consequently Benjamin,
at the clip of the year of Joseph's age till the patriarch travel into
Egypt, not more than twenty-two or twenty-four at the most. (12) now this
Salmon, according to the genealogy, was David's great-grandfather.
(8) it is clear that ezra, in 1 King vi., wished to reckon absolutely
all the years since the flight from Egypt.

(5) if bela circumstance seem conjectures rather than reasons, i will waive the point and admit that
Jacob, the inauspicious than Ulysses, spent eight or ten dotage or
even longer, in this short journey.

(4) we
read (Gen. Xxxi: 3), that God had commanded him to fulfill his vow,
and promised him help for returning to his country. (10) for, without
going back to the other years of subjection among those said by the
Bible to have been passed in his exemption.

(4) but the Bible
expressly notes the number of years of subjection, but does not, as
they dream, refuse to reckon them or wipe them out of the country's
annals.

(6) at same rate it cannot be denied that Benjamin was born in the
last year of this wandering, that is by the reckoning of the objectors,
when Joseph was sixteen or seventeen years old, for Jacob left laban
seven years after Joseph's death.



"Oh, yer can't git dat book froo my head, no way you fix it. I knows nuff to git to hebben,
and dat's all I wants to know." Aunt Linda was kind and obliging, but there was one place where
she drew the line, and that was at learning to read.

Harry and Miss Delany accompanied Iola as far as her new home, and remained several days. The
evening before their departure, Harry took Miss Delany a drive of several miles through the
pine barrens.

"This thing is getting very monotonous," Harry broke out, when they had gone some distance.

"Oh, I enjoy it!" replied Miss Delany. "These stately pines look so grand and solemn, they
remind me of a procession of hooded monks."

"What in the world are you talking about, Lucille?" asked Harry, looking puzzled.

"About those pine-trees," replied Miss Delany, in a tone of surprise.

"Pshaw, I wasn't thinking about them. I'm thinking about Iola and Frank."

"What about them?" asked Lucille.

"Why, when I was in P----, Dr. Latimer used to be first-rate company, but now it is nothing
but what Iola wants, and what Iola says, and what Iola likes. I don't believe that there is
a subject I could name to him, from spinning a top to circumnavigating the globe, that he wouldn't
somehow contrive to bring Iola in. And I don't believe you could talk ten minutes to Iola on
any subject, from dressing a doll to the latest discovery in science, that she wouldn't manage
to lug in Frank."

"Oh, you absurd creature!" responded Lucille, "this is their honeymoon, and they are deeply
in love with each other. Wait till you get in love with some one."

"I am in love now," replied Harry, with a serious air.

"With whom?" asked Lucille, archly.

"With you," answered Harry, trying to take her hand.

"Oh, Harry!" she exclaimed, playfully resisting. "Don't be so nonsensical! Don't you think
the bride looked lovely, with that dress of spotless white and with those orange blossoms in
her hair?"

"Yes, she did; that's a fact," responded Harry. "But, Lucille, I think there is a great deal
of misplaced sentiment at weddings," he added, more seriously.

"How so?"

"Oh, here are a couple just married, and who are as happy as happy can be; and people will
crowd around them wishing much joy; but who thinks of wishing joy to the forlorn old bachelors
and restless old maids?"

"Well, Harry, if you want people to wish you much happiness, why don't you do as the doctor
has done, get yourself a wife?"

"I will," he replied, soberly, "when you say so."

"Oh, Harry, don't be so absurd."

"Indeed there isn't a bit of absurdity about what I say. I am in earnest." There was something
in the expression of Harry's face and the tone of his voice which arrested the banter on Lucille's
lips.

"I think it was Charles Lamb," replied Lucille, "who once said that school-teachers are uncomfortable
people, and, Harry, I would not like to make you uncomfortable by marrying you."

"You will make me uncomfortable by not marrying me."

"But," replied Lucille, "your mother may not prefer me for a daughter. You know, Harry, complexional
prejudices are not confined to white people."

"My mother," replied Harry, with an air of confidence, "is too noble to indulge in such sentiments."

"And Iola, would she be satisfied?"

"Why, it would add to her satisfaction. She is not one who can't be white and won't be black."

"Well, then," replied Lucille, "I will take the question of your comfort into consideration."

The above promise was thoughtfully remembered by Lucille till a bridal ring and happy marriage
were the result.

Soon after Iola had settled in C---- she quietly took her place in the Sunday-school as a teacher,
and in the church as a helper. She was welcomed by the young pastor, who found in her a strong
and faithful ally. Together they planned meetings for the especial benefit of mothers and children.
When the dens of vice are spreading their snares for the feet of the tempted and inexperienced
her doors are freely opened for the instruction of the children before their feet have wandered
and gone far astray. She has no carpets too fine for the tread of their little feet. She thinks
it is better to have stains on her carpet than stains on their souls through any neglect of
hers. In lowly homes and windowless cabins her visits are always welcome. Little children love
her. Old age turns to her for comfort, young girls for guidance, and mothers for counsel. Her
life is full of blessedness.

Doctor Latimer by his kindness and skill has won the name of the "Good Doctor." But he is more
than a successful doctor; he is a true patriot and a good citizen. Honest, just, and discriminating,
he endeavors by precept and example to instill into the minds of others sentiments of good
citizenship. He is a leader in every reform movement for the benefit of the community; but
his patriotism is not confined to race lines. "The world is his country, and mankind his countrymen."
While he abhors their deeds of violence, he pities the short-sighted and besotted men who seem
madly intent upon laying magazines of powder under the cradles of unborn generations. He has
great faith in the possibilities of the negro, and believes that, enlightened and Christianized,
he will sink the old animosities of slavery into the new community of interests arising from
freedom; and that his influence upon the South will be as the influence of the sun upon the
earth. As when the sun passes from Capricorn to Cancer, beauty, greenness, and harmony spring
up in his path, so he hopes that the future career of the negro will be a greater influence
for freedom and social advancement than it was in the days of yore for slavery and its inferior
civilization.

Harry and Lucille are at the head of a large and flourishing school. Lucille gives her ripening
experience to her chosen work, to which she was too devoted to resign. And through the school
they are lifting up the homes of the people. Some have pitied, others blamed, Harry for casting
his lot with the colored people, but he knows that life's highest and best advantages do not
depend on the color of the skin or texture of the hair. He has his reward in the improved condition
of his pupils and the superb manhood and noble life which he has developed in his much needed work.

Uncle Daniel still lingers on the shores of time, a cheery, lovable old man, loved and respected
by all; a welcome guest in every home. Soon after Iola's marriage, Robert sold out his business
and moved with his mother and sister to North Carolina. He bought a large plantation near C----,
which he divided into small homesteads, and sold to poor but thrifty laborers, and his heart
has been gladdened by their increased prosperity and progress. He has seen the one-roomed cabins
change to comfortable cottages, in which cleanliness and order have supplanted the prolific
causes of disease and death. Kind and generous, he often remembers Mrs. Johnson and sends her
timely aid.

Marie's pale, spiritual face still bears traces of the beauty which was her youthful dower,
but its bloom has been succeeded by an air of sweetness and dignity. Though frail in health,
she is always ready to lend a helping hand wherever and whenever she can.

Grandmother Johnson was glad to return South and spend the remnant of her days with the remaining
friends of her early life. Although feeble, she is in full sympathy with her children for the
uplifting of the race. Marie and her mother are enjoying their aftermath of life, one by rendering
to others all the service in her power, while the other, with her face turned toward the celestial
city, is

    "Only waiting till the angels
      Open wide the mystic gate."

The shadows have been lifted from all their lives; and peace, like bright dew, has descended
upon their paths. Blessed themselves, their lives are a blessing to others.

NOTE.

From threads of fact and fiction I have woven a story whose mission will not be in vain if
it awaken in the hearts of our countrymen a stronger sense of justice and a more Christlike
humanity in behalf of those whom the fortunes of war threw, homeless, ignorant and poor, upon
the threshold of a new era. Nor will it be in vain if it inspire the children of those upon
whose brows God has poured the chrism of that new era to determine that they will embrace every
opportunity, develop every faculty, and use every power God has given them to rise in the scale
of character and condition, and to add their quota of good citizenship to the best welfare
of the nation. There are scattered among us materials for mournful tragedies and mirth-provoking
comedies, which some hand may yet bring into the literature of the country, glowing with the
fervor of the tropics and enriched by the luxuriance of the Orient, and thus add to the solution
of our unsolved American problem.

The race has not had very long to straighten its hands from the hoe, to grasp the pen and wield
it as a power for good, and to erect above the ruined auction-block and slave-pen institutions
of learning, but

    There is light beyond the darkness,
          Joy beyond the present pain;
    There is hope in God's great justice
          And the negro's rising brain.
    Though the morning seems to linger
          O'er the hill-tops far away,
    Yet the shadows bear the promise
          Of a brighter coming day.

