THE
                    PRIVATEER'S-MAN

                 ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO.

                           BY

                    CAPTAIN MARRYAT.

 SANCTIONED BY THE AUTHOR FOR CONTINENTAL CIRCULATION.

LEIPZIG BERNH. TAUCHNITZ JUN. 1846.

EXTRACTS FROM THE LOG OF A PRIVATEER'S-MAN.

CHAPTER I.

    We cruise off Hispaniola--Capture a French Ship--Continue
    our Cruise--Make a Nocturnal Attack upon a Rich Planter's
    Dwelling--Are repulsed with Loss.

              To Mistress ----.

      RESPECTED MADAM,

In compliance with your request I shall now transcribe from the journal of my younger days
some portions of my adventurous life. When I wrote, I painted the feelings of my heart without
reserve, and I shall not alter one word, as I know you wish to learn what my feelings were
then, and not what my thoughts may be now. They say that in every man's life, however obscure
his position may be, there would be a moral found, were it truly told. I think, Madam, when
you have perused what I am about to write, you will agree with me, that, from my history, both
old and young may gather profit, and, I trust, if ever it should be made public, that, by divine
permission, such may be the result. Without further preface, I shall commence with a narrative
of my cruise off Hispaniola, in the Revenge privateer.

The Revenge mounted fourteen guns, and was commanded by Captain Weatherall, a very noted privateer's-man.
One morning at daybreak we discovered a vessel from the masthead, and immediately made all
sail in chase, crowding every stitch of canvas. As we neared, we made her out to be a large
ship, deeply laden, and we imagined that she would be an easy prize, but as we saw her hull
more out of the water she proved to be well armed, having a full tier of guns fore and aft.
As it afterwards proved, she was a vessel of 600 tons burden, and mounted twenty-four guns,
having sailed from St. Domingo, and being bound to France.

She had been chartered by a French gentleman (and a most gallant fellow we found him), who
had acquired a large fortune in the West-Indies, and was then going home, having embarked on
board his whole property, as well as his wife and his only son, a youth of about seventeen.
As soon as he discovered what we were, and the impossibility of escape from so fast a sailing
vessel as the Revenge, he resolved to fight us to the last. Indeed, he had every thing to fight
for; his whole property, his wife and his only child, his own liberty, and perhaps life, were
all at stake, and he had every motive that could stimulate a man. As we subsequently learnt,
he had great difficulty in inspiring the crew with an equal resolution, and it was not until
he had engaged to pay them the value of half the cargo provided they succeeded in beating us
off, and forcing their way in safety to France, that he could rouse them to their duty.

Won by his example, for he told them that he did not desire any man to do more than he would
do himself, and perhaps more induced by his generous offer, the French crew declared they would
support him to the last, went cheerfully to their guns and prepared for action. But Councillor Hoffmann concerns,
"he continued quietly," so goes about it in order to consider the people, and if he finds one,
the Apart itself has something about a blow out of the madhouse or a stitch from the spirit
realm, he is looking forward bass and characterized it with words or with the stylus. And because
he has felt like a little bizarre to me, he sat down beside me, talked to me and invited me to
his house at the Gendarmenmarkt in his visit. "" Well, well! And where did you get here actually,
you wonder if you like?

"" Recta from China, "answered Ahasuerus."

A boring nest, it looks just like fifteen hundred years ago, when I was there for the first time. "" In China
you were 'I asked, laughing.

"How did you get to the boring people that even the devil is amusing
to a small amount for?"

"Leave it," replied the other, "you know, yes, like me driving the
unrest by the states.

I have,
as the morning sun of the new century behind the Mongolian mountains rose, the, head of the long
wall of China ran to, but it did not want me to end go with and I would have more of a hole
that garden wall of the heavenly kingdom encountered by as an old Aries, as the up there I
would have let touch a hair. "Tears rolled down the old man out of sight. The weary eyelids were close
to, but the oath of the Lord holds it open until he can sleep when
the others rise.

He had long been silent, and indeed, I could not the poor one look at her without emotion of pity. He
rose again .-- "Satan," he asked with a trembling voice, "how much is Clock's in eternity?
"" It is evening, "I gave him the answer." O midnight, "he groaned," when finally come your cool
shade and cut down on my burning eyes? When did Nearest, where the graves are oeffnen hours and
space for E inen to, then may the rest?

"" Fie cuckoo, old Howler!

"Broke me, angry about the whining manners of the eternal wanderer." How do you like only such hit
a poetic lament? Believe me, you may congratulate you, that you still have something Aparts.
Some funny soul has it in a certain place much worse than you on
this earth.

We have here but its still fun, because people are worried that to it that the jokes do not go
mad. If I would have so much free time as you, I wanted to enjoy the life differently. Ma foi, baby
brother, why do not you go to England, where you now about amorous
adventures of a concerted, the Queen publicly, why not for Spain, where
it soon breaks out now? Why not for France to have your amusement out
how you painted over the walls of the empire and with old tapestries
of Louis XIV's time, they have brought to from exile, hung. I can assure
you, it looks silly from all; because the wallpaper is everywhere
too short, and through the cracks still looks serious and threatening
the empire as the blood of the murdered man, that you can not extinguish
with plaster and as often as it anstreicht white, still with the old
colorful color strikes through! "
 The first lieutenant
of the privateer and six of us, had dashed down the companion, and were entering the cabin
in search of plunder, when we found opposed to our entrance, the gallant French gentleman,
supported by his son, the captain of the vessel, and five of the French sailors; behind them
was the French gentleman's wife, to whose protection they had devoted themselves. The lieutenant,
who headed us, offered them quarter, but stung to madness at the prospect of the ruin and of
the captivity which awaited him, the gentleman treated the offer with contempt, and rushing
forward attacked our lieutenant, beating down his guard, and was just about to pierce him with
the lunge which he made, when I fired my pistol at him to save the life of my officer. The
ball entered his heart, and thus died one of the bravest men I ever encountered. His son at
the same time was felled to the deck with a pole-axe, when the remainder threw themselves down
on the deck, and cried for quarter. So enraged were our men at this renewal of the combat,
that it required all the efforts and authority of the lieutenant to prevent them from completing
the massacre by taking the lives of those who no longer resisted. But who could paint the condition
of that unhappy lady who had stood a witness of the horrid scene--her eyes blasted with the
sight of her husband slain before her face, her only son groaning on the deck and weltering
in his blood; and she left alone, bereft of all that was dear to her; stripped of the wealth
she was that morning mistress of, now a widow, perhaps childless, a prisoner, a beggar, and
in the hands of lawless ruffians, whose hands were reeking with her husband's and offspring's
blood, at their mercy, and exposed to every evil which must befal a beautiful and unprotected
female from those who were devoid of all principle, all pity, and all fear! Well might the
frantic creature rush, as she did, upon our weapons, and seek that death which would have been
a mercy and a blessing. With difficulty we prevented her from injuring herself, and, after
a violent struggle, nature yielded, and she sank down in a swoon on the body of her husband,
dabbling her clothes and hair in the gore which floated on the cabin-deck. This scene of misery
shocked even the actors in it. Our sailors, accustomed as they were to blood and rapine, remained
silent and immoveable, resting upon their weapons, their eyes fixed upon the unconscious form
of that unhappy lady.

The rage of battle was now over, our passions had subsided, and we felt ashamed of a conquest
purchased with such unutterable anguish. The noise of this renewed combat had brought down
the captain; he ordered the lady to be taken away from this scene of horror, and to be carefully
tended in his own cabin; the wound of the son, who was found still alive, was immediately dressed,
and the prisoners were secured. I returned on deck, still oppressed with the scene I had witnessed,
and when I looked round me, and beheld the deck strewed with the dead and dying--victors and
vanquished indiscriminately mixed up together--the blood of both nations meeting on the deck
and joining their streams--I could not help putting the question to myself, "Can this be right
and lawful--all this carnage to obtain the property of others, and made legal by the quarrels
of kings?" Reason, religion, and humanity, answered, "No."

I remained uneasy and dissatisfied, and felt as if I were a murderer; and then I reflected
how this property, thus wrested from its former possessor, who might, if he had retained it,
have done much good with it, would now be squandered away in riot and dissipation, in purchasing
crime and administering to debauchery. I was young then, and felt so disgusted and so angry
with myself and everybody else, that if I had been in England, I probably should never again
have put my foot on board of a privateer.

But employment prevented my thinking; the decks had to be cleaned, the bodies thrown overboard,
the blood washed from the white planks, the wounded to be removed, and their hurts dressed,
the rigging and other damages to be repaired, and when all this had been done, we made sail
for Jamaica with our prize. Our captain, who was as kind and gentle to the vanquished as he
was brave and resolute in action, endeavoured by all the means he could think of to soften
the captivity and sufferings of the lady. Her clothes, jewels, and every thing belonging to
her, were preserved untouched; he would not even allow her trunks to be searched, and would
have secured for her even all her husband's personal effects, but the crew had seized upon
them as plunder, and refused to deliver them up. I am almost ashamed to say that the sword
and watch of her husband fell to my lot, and whether from my wearing the sword, or from having
seen me fire the pistol which had killed him, the lady always expressed her abhorrence of me
whenever I entered her presence. Her son recovered slowly from his wound, and, on our arrival
at Port Royal, was permitted by the admiral to be sent to the King's Hospital, and the lady,
who was most tenderly attached to him, went on shore and remained at the Hospital to attend
upon him. I was glad when she was gone, for I knew how much cause she had for her hatred of
me, and I could not see her without remorse. As soon as we had completed our repairs, filled
up our provisions and water, we sailed upon another cruise, which was not so successful, as
you will presently perceive.

For five or six weeks we cruised without success, and our people began to grumble, when one
morning our boats in shore off Hispaniola surprised a small schooner. A negro who was among
the prisoners offered to conduct us through the woods by night to the house of a very rich
planter, which was situated about three miles from a small bay, and at some distance from the
other plantations. He asserted that we might there get very valuable plunder, and, moreover,
obtain a large ransom for the planter and his family, besides bringing away as many of the
negro slaves as we pleased.

Our captain, who was tired of his ill-success, and who hoped also to procure provisions, which
we very much wanted, consented to the negro's proposal, and standing down abreast of the bay,
which was in the Bight of Lugan, he ran in at dark, and anchoring close to the shore, we landed
with forty men, and, guided by the negro, we proceeded through the woods to the house. Solitude and idleness,
the comfortable, good and abundant life were an element, in which an irregular desire earlier,
as a good child, I thought that had to be developed by the.

It started well, but with quiet sighs, among the advantages whilst her husband also His world - and
people skills, especially the knowledge of the female heart to admire. "So it was still possible
that I denied him so vividly," she said to herself, "and so it was still necessary, in such
a case, I advised caution and prudence! But what can caution and prudence when, where chance only
with a vague desire to play the ruthless seems, how should I choose to, I do not know? And stays
close acquaintance or a choice but when? "With these and a hundred other thoughts increased the beautiful
woman unlearnedly that with her enough to be taken was far already.

In vain she tried to disperse, and every pleasant subject was feeling lively her, and sensation
brought her, even in the deepest solitude, pleasant images of her imagination out to. In this
state it was in when they other city news from their relatives heard
under, There was a young legal scholar who had studied at Bologna, had just
returned to his native city.

We did not know enough to say in his praise. In extraordinary skills he displayed a wisdom and
skill, the other young men is not independent, and a very charming form the largest modesty. As a prosecutor,
he soon had the confidence of citizens and respect the judge won. Daily he found himself at the city
hall one in order to get there, its shops and operate. Schoene The man heard the description
of a not so perfect without a desire to know him closer, and not
without a silent wish, those who find in him, which she her heart,
even after the provision handed over her husband could.

How attentive she was, therefore, when she heard that before walk past her house every day,
how carefully she watched the hour in which we used to gather at
the town hall!

Not
without emotion at last she saw him passing by, and when his beautiful figure, and his youth for they had to
be irritating necessary, it was his modesty on the other hand that which she replied in worry.
Some days she had watched him secretly, and could now Desiring longer resist, to draw attention
to his. She dressed with care, stepped on the balcony, and her heart beat when she saw him
come from the street. But how sad, so ashamed was she when he, like usually with deliberate steps, turned
himself in and with downcast eyes, without even notice only the most elegant of his way to passing.
In vain she tried for many days, exactly in the same way, by to be
noticed him.

He always went his habitual step without pitch the eyes or there - and there to contact. The more she
looked at him, however, the more it seemed to her to be the one, which they much needed Sun Their
tendency was more lively every day and because she did not resist, and finally entirely by force.
"What!" she said to herself, "after your noble, intelligent man foresaw the state where you are gonna
be missed you, as his prophecy arrives, and a favorite that you can
not live without a friend, you shall have to eat and now abhaermen
the time that you lucky one shows the young man, completely according
to your senses, according to the mind of your husband, a young man
with whom you love in an impenetrable mystery can enjoy the pleasures?
foolish, who missed the opportunity, foolish, who the violent love
will resist!

" With these and many other thought is was looking for beautiful women to strengthen their
intent, and only a short time she was still uncertainty out of and pushed her. At last, however,
as it met that passion, which we resist a long time to visit us at last dahinreisst once and should
increase our mind that we concern and fear, restraint and shame, relationships and obligations
with contempt than to look back at petty obstacles, it took at once
a rapid decision, a young girl who served her to her beloved Send
a man and at all costs now, what it might, to reach his possession.

This girl ran and found him, just as he sat at table with many friends, and directed its greeting,
the woman had taught her she made on time . The young prosecutor was not surprised about that
message, he had the trader of his youth knew in, he knew that now he was absent, and whether his
marriage from a distance heard was of the same, he surmised, however, that the abandoned wife
in the absence of her husband in a major case of his legal assistance reconfirmed before probably.
He said because of the girl on the courteous and assured that he, as soon as we got up from the table,
would not tarry, wait on her mistress. With inexpressible joy heard the beautiful woman that she would
soon see and talk lover should. She hurried to attract the best again, and left their house quickly
and clean out their rooms for the cleanest on. Orangenblaetter and flowers were scattered,
the couch covered with costly carpets. This was the short time he stayed away out, busy, their
otherwise unbearably long made would be. With what movement they went to meet him when he arrived
at last with which confusion, they told him, by focusing on the couch settled, a stool to sit on,
which was standing next! She paused in his so desirable Close She had not considered what she
would say to him, and he was quiet and sat in front of her modest.

At last they took courage and said not without concern and trepidation: "They are far from your
home town wiederangekommen in, sir, and you're everywhere for a talent rich and reliable man
known. I also put my trust in you in an important and strange matter, which if I remember right
for the confessor rather than for the trustee belongs. For a year I am a worthy and wealthy
man married to who, as long as we lived together, the greatest attention for me and about which I had I
would not complain if a restless desire to travel and not to act him some time would have been
torn from my arms. As a wise and just man, he felt perhaps the wrong he did to me by his removal.
He understood that a young woman does not like jewelry and beads can be stored, and he knew
she was rather like a garden full of beautiful fruits, just as everyone lost for the Lord-all
for when he Tuere a few years wanted to close the stubborn. He told me so Before his departure
very seriously, he assured me that I would not friend can live without, he gave me to not only
the permission, but he pressed me and forced me, as it promises from the that I the inclination, which
is in find my heart would, without hesitation would follow and free.

"She kept silent for a moment, but soon gave her a view of the promising young man's courage enough to
persevere in their faith." The only condition my husband said to his
by the way such an indulgent permission .

He recommended the utmost caution and asked expressly that I set, reliable, intelligent and discreet
friend, one should choose. Spare me Remaining to say, "Lord, spare me the my confusion with which
you confess, I would how much I am taken for you, and you guess from
this trust my hopes and my wishes.

"After a short break, man said the young, amiable good Thoughtful:" How much I owe you for the
confidence associated, through which you me such a high degree of honor in and happy to make,
I wish you only lively, convince you that you in unworthy turned do not have to. Let me tell
you first lawyer to answer as, and such confess when I you that I have your husband admire,
of his wrong felt and clearly seen is so, for it is certain that one of the young woman left behind
by to visit distant parts of the world as such is considered that any other property completely
derelinquiert and the obvious action on by waiver does it all right. How is the first best is
allowed now completely fallen into the open to take such a thing
again, I must all the more for it of course and cheap to maintain,
that a young woman in this state is their tendency to give away again,
and a friend, who seems comfortable and confident her safely released.

    If, now, but even here the case as one that the husband himself,
    his wrong aware, in express words of his wife left behind the
    one allowed, what he can not ban her, there remains no doubt
    left, the more so, to that no injustice is happening, it has declared
to bear willingly. If you tell me now, "continued the young man very
different views and continue with the liveliest expression by beautiful
girlfriend by the hand, took the" if you elect me your servant, you
make me a Blessed with known, from the I had no idea until now.

Be assured, "he exclaimed, as he kissed the hands," that you do not Equals, tender, devoted and discreet
servants would have found can, "How did feel reassured after this declaration, the beautiful woman.
You did not hesitate to show him the most lively tenderness her, she pressed his hands, pushed
his way closer to him and laid her head on his shoulder.

Before long they stayed in that position, as a way he tried to remove it gently on the and distress
not to speak without began: "Can a man at ease in a strange acute
deficit is?

I am forced to remove you from me and doing violence to the largest in a moment when I should
leave the sweetest feelings. I can my luck, which awaits me in your arms, not currently dedicate.
Ah, if only the delay me not for my beautiful hopes betriegt "The Beautiful scared asked for the
cause of this strange expression." Just as I Bologna, "said he," at
the end of my studies and I was in utmost attacked again, me sent to
make my future destination, I fell into a severe disease that where
my life not to destroy, but my physical well Geisteskraefte and threatened
to shatter.

In the greatest distress and under the intense pain I did the Mother of God, vows, I if you could
let me recover for a year to spend in strict fasting and me enjoyment, of any kind, he also had
wanted to include everything. For ten months I have fulfilled my vows to faithfully, and they have me in
consideration of the great blessing that I received, by no means
become long, since I was not troublesome, and known best to do without
many things familiar.

But to me what eternity is now two months, the rest are still there after me during the same
one given to lucky may be what the matter beyond all words! Take your time do not be long and deprive
me your favor not, you as intended volunteered me, "The Beautiful, with this explanation not
very happy, but again took courage better than on reflection, to speak the friend continued: "I
hardly dared to do a proposal to you and display the means by which I can be relieved vows of
my earlier. If I could find someone who so strict and sure I would take over to keep the vows
and how half of the remaining time with me told them that I would be free so faster, and nothing would
be our wishes to oppose. If you do not, my sweet friend, to speed up our luck, be willing to part of
the obstacle, the forward to us, clearing away one?

Only the most reliable person I can share my Oath transferred one and it is strictly because of
the day I can only water twice and bread may enjoy, at night a few hours on a hard bed of the pass,
and despite my many shops have a large number of prayers . do Can I, as is done today is not
me, avoid, to appear at a banquet, I must, therefore, not neglect
my duty, but I have to drink that for me to temporarily resist looking
for all the irritation.

Can you decide, for one month to comply with these laws, all equally, you will then themselves
in the possession of a friend the more pleasure than it with such a praiseworthy undertaking certain
extent even have bought. "The nice lady heard the hate obstacles to their tendency opposed to,
but man was her love for the young by his presence has been increased such that it does not seem too strict
examination, if only because the possession of such cheap goods could
be insured.

She told him therefore the most obliging expressions: "My sweet friend! the miracle, which you
have regained your health is so precious and revered myself that I am at my pleasure and duty,
which vows to take part in that you owe to perform are against it. I am pleased to assure
you of such a proof to give my affection, I will most accurately guided by your instructions, and before
you acquit me, will not remove me from the path to which you introduce me. " After the young man
with her on the exact conditions dissuaded those under which they could
save half of his vow to him, he left with the assurance that he will
soon visit them again and the lucky perseverance in her resolution
would ask for, and so had they let him go when he handshake, no kiss,
with a barely significant difference from her eyes without.

An happiness for them was the job that their intent was the strange, for she had much to do
in order to completely, to supervise their life.

First flowers were beautiful leaves and hinausgekehrt they his reception
had to be spread, and then came to the place of wohlgepolsterten couch
a hard bed on which they are, for the first time in her life only
bread and water almost saturated, the evening resigned.

The next day she was busy to tailor to sew shirts and whose specific number for a poor hospital
and had promised to make ready - one them. In this new and uncomfortable
job she always maintained her imagination with the picture of her
friend's sweet and with the hope of future bliss, and when these same
ideas appeared to narrow their cardiotonic diet food to give her one.

A week passed, and already at the end of it began The roses in her
cheeks to some extent, fade. Clothes that fit you well otherwise, were
too far and its usually so quick and lively finish limbs become weak
and when the friend came back from his visit and her new strength
and life were.

He exhorted them to persevere in their intent, she cheered on by his example and had by far the hope of
an undisturbed enjoyment hinted. Just a short time he kept to himself and promised to return soon.
The charitable work went away again to new cheerful, and the strict
diet to not let you.

But, alas! they would have a big disease can not be exhausted. Your
friend, the end of the week she again visited on, she saw the greatest
sympathy with them, and strengthened by the thought that half of
the exam is now already over.

Now it was the unusual fasting, prayer and work every day with flowers blossoming , and the
hypertrophied abstinence seemed to the healthy state of a plentiful
food bodys entirely accustomed to disorder and to calm.

The Schoene could last no longer the feet hold up and was forced to the warm years, there are
double and triple clothes to dress in whatever order the almost completely disappearing internal
heat somewhat together. Yes, it was not longer able to remain upright, and even forced, last
time the bed to take care of. What reflections because they had to make about their state! How often
did this strange incident of her soul over before, and how painful it was to her as days went by
ten, without the friend would be released, the sacrifices it is extremely cost them! In contrast,
however, prepared these dark hours in front of her full recovery, so it was decided. Because as soon
thereafter released her friend and on her bed on the very same stool, sat down on the explanation
he had first heard her, and her friendly, even to some extent tenderly kindly, yet firm outlast
the short time she interrupted him with a smile and said, "It needs no further persuasion,
my dear friend, and I'll vows these few days with patience and with the conviction endure my,
that you would have to impose my best there. I am now too weak to that I thank you obtained could
express, I feel like it. You have me to myself, you have given me to myself, and I realize that I my
whole life from now on, I owe you. Verily, my husband was intelligent and wise and knew the heart
a woman, and he was cheap enough to scold them about a tendency not to blame in her bosom was
created by its, yes, he was generous enough to have their rights set aside on
the nature of the claim.

But you, sir, are sensibly and well, you can feel me, except that the inclination is still something
in us that can keep the balance of her that we are capable, well accustomed to renounce any
and hottest desires of us to remove our own. You have me in this school guided by error and
hope, but both are no longer needed if we are only at the good and mighty, I have made known,
the quiet and calm in our lives so and so long as it is the rule in the home win, at least
by memories remember his presence incessantly delicate leaves. Farewell!
Your friend will future, with pleasure to see you, and you contribute
to your fellow citizens like me, you develop not only the confusions
that arise easily over Besitztuemer only, but show them through gentle
guidance and by example, that in every man the Power of Virtue germinates
in secret, will reward his universal respect you, and you will be
more than the first statesman and hero of the biggest names the father
of his country deserve.

"
 At four o'clock in
the afternoon a breeze sprang up, and both vessels trimmed their sails and neared us fast--not
quite in such gallant trim as in the morning it is true--but they appeared now to have summoned
up a determined resolution. Silently they came up, forcing their way slowly through the water;
not a gun was fired, but the gaping mouths of the cannon, and their men motionless at their
quarters, portended the severity of the struggle which was now to decide this hitherto well-contested
trial for victory. When within half a cable's length, we saluted them with three cheers, they
returned our defiance, and running up on each side of us, the combat was renewed with bitterness.

The Frenchman would not this time lay us on board until he was certain that the Spaniard had
boarded us to leeward--he continued luffing to windward and plying us with broadsides until
we were grappled with the Spaniard, and then he bore down and laid his gunwale on our bow.
The Spaniard had already boarded us on the quarter, and we were repelling this attack, when
the Frenchman laid us on the bow. We fought with desperation, and our pikes gave us such an
advantage over the swords and knives of the Spaniards, that they gave ground, and appalled
by the desperate resistance they encountered, quitted our decks strewed with their dead and
dying shipmates, and retreated in confusion to their own vessel. But before this repulse had
been effected, the French had boarded us on the weather-bow, and driving before them the few
men who had been sent forward to resist them, had gained our main deck, and forced their way
to the rise of the quarter-deck, where all our remaining men were now collected. The combat
was now desperate, but after a time our pikes, and the advantage of our position, appeared
to prevail over numbers. We drove them before us--we had regained the main deck, when our brave
commander, who was at our head, and who had infused spirit into us all, received a bullet through
his right wrist; shifting his sword into his left hand, he still pressed forward encouraging
us, when a ball entered his breast and he dropped dead. With his fall, fell the courage and
fortitude of his crew so long sustained--and to complete the mischief, the lieutenant and two
remaining officers also fell a few seconds after him. Astonished and terrified, the men stopped
short in their career of success, and wildly looked round for a leader. The French, who had
retreated to the forecastle, perceiving our confusion, renewed the attack, our few remaining
men were seized with a panic, and throwing down our arms, we asked for quarter where a moment
before victory was in our hands--such was the finale of our bloody drama.

Out of fifty-five men twenty-two had been killed in this murderous conflict, and almost all
the survivors desperately or severely wounded. Most of the remaining crew after we had cried
for quarter jumped down the hatchway, to avoid the cutlasses of their enraged victors. I and
about eight others, having been driven past the hatchway, threw down our arms and begged for
quarter, which we had little reason to expect would be shown to us. At first no quarter was
given by our savage enemies, who cut down several of our disarmed men and hacked them to pieces.
Perceiving this, I got on the gunwale ready to jump overboard, in the hopes of being taken
up after the slaughter had ceased, when a French lieutenant coming up protected us, and saved
the poor remains of our crew from the fury of his men. Our lives, however, were all he counted
upon preserving--we were instantly stripped and plundered without mercy. I lost every thing
I possessed; the watch, ring, and sword I had taken from the gallant Frenchman were soon forced
from me, and not stripping off my apparel fast enough to please a Mulatto sailor, I received
a blow with the butt-end of a pistol under the left ear, which precipitated me down the hatchway,
near which I was standing, and I fell senseless into the hold.

CHAPTER III.

    We are sent in, on board the Revenge and treated with
    great cruelty--Are afterwards recaptured by the Hero
    privateer, and retaliate on the French--I am taken to
    the hospital at Port Royal, where I meet the French
    lady--Her savage exultation at my condition--She is
    punished by one of my comrades.

On coming to my senses, I found myself stripped naked, and suffering acute pain. I found that
my right arm was broken, my shoulder severely injured by my fall; and as I had received three
severe cutlass-wounds during the action, I had lost so much blood that I had not strength to
rise or do any thing for myself. There I lay, groaning and naked, upon the ballast of the vessel,
at times ruminating upon the events of the action, upon the death of our gallant commander,
upon the loss of our vessel, of so many of our comrades, and of our liberty. After some time
the surgeon, by the order of the French commander, came down to dress my wounds. He treated
me with the greatest barbarity. As he twisted about my broken limb I could not help crying
at the anguish which he caused me. He compelled me to silence by blows and maledictions, wishing
I had broken my rascally neck rather than he should have been put to the trouble of coming
down to dress me. However, dress me he did, out of fear of his captain, who, he knew well,
would send round to see if he had executed his orders, and then he left me with a kick in the
ribs by way of remembrance. Shortly afterwards the vessels separated. Fourteen of us, who were
the most severely hurt, were left in the Revenge, which was manned by an officer and twenty
Frenchmen, with orders to take her into Port-au-Paix. The rest of our men were put on board
of the French privateer, who sailed away in search of a more profitable adventure.

About an hour after they had made sail on the vessel, the officer who had charge of her, looking
down the hatchway, and perceiving my naked and forlorn condition, threw me a pair of trousers,
which had been rejected by the French seamen as not worth having, and a check shirt, in an
equally ragged condition, I picked up in the hold; this, with a piece of old rope to tie round
my neck as a sling for my broken arm, was my whole wardrobe. In the evening I gained the deck,
that I might be refreshed by the breeze, which cooled my feverish body and somewhat restored me.

We remained in this condition for several days, tortured with pain, but more tortured, perhaps,
by the insolence and bragging of the Frenchmen, who set no bounds to their triumph and self-applause.
Among those who had charge of the prize were two, one of whom had my watch and the other my
ring; the first would hold it to me grinning, and asking if Monsieur would like to know what
o'clock it was; and the other would display the ring, and tell me that his sweetheart would
value it when she knew that it was taken from a conquered Englishman. This was their practice
every day, and I was compelled to receive their gibes without venturing a retort.

On the eleventh day after our capture, when close to Port-au-Paix, and expecting we should
be at anchor before nightfall, we perceived a great hurry and confusion on deck; they were
evidently making all the sail that they could upon the vessel; and then hearing them fire off
their stern-chasers, we knew for certain that they were pursued. Overjoyed at the prospect
of being released, we gave three cheers. The French from the deck threatened to fire down upon
us, but we knew that they dared not, for the Revenge was so crippled in the fight, that they
could not put sail upon her so as to escape, and their force on board was too small to enable
them to resist if overtaken--we therefore continued our exulting clamours. At last we heard
guns fired, and the shot whizzing over the vessel--a shot or two struck our hull, and soon
afterwards a broadside being poured into us, the Frenchmen struck their colours, and we had
the satisfaction of seeing all these Gasconaders driven down into the hold to take our places.
It was now their turn to be dejected and downcast, and for us to be merry; and now also the
tables had to be turned, and we took the liberty of regaining possession of our clothes and
other property which they carried on their backs and in their pockets. I must say we showed
them no mercy.

"What o'clock is it, Monsieur?" said I to the fellow who had my watch.

"At your service, Sir," he replied, humbly taking out my watch, and presenting it to me.

"Thank you," said I, taking the watch, and saluting him with a kick in the stomach, which made
him double up and turn round from me, upon which I gave him another kick in the rear to straighten
him again. "That ring, Monsieur, that your sweetheart will prize."

"Here it is," replied the fellow, abjectly.

"Thank you, Sir," I replied, saluting him with the double kick which I had given to the former.
"Tell your sweetheart I sent her those," cried I, "that is, when you get back to her."

"Hark ye, brother," cries one of our men, "I'll trouble you for that jacket which you borrowed
of me the other day, and in return here are a pair of iron garters (holding out the shackles),
which you must wear for my sake--I think they will fit you well."

"Mounseer," cries another, "that wig of mine don't suit your complexion, I'll trouble you for
it. It's a pity such a face as yours should be disfigured in those curls. And while you are
about it, I'll thank you to strip altogether, as I think your clothes will fit me, and are
much too gay for a prisoner."

"I was left naked through your kindness the other day," said I to another, who was well and
smartly dressed, "I'll thank you to strip to your skin, or you shall have no skin left." And
I commenced with my knife cutting his ears as if I would skin them.

It was a lucky hit of mine, for in his sash I found about twenty doubloons. He would have saved
them, and held them tight, but after my knife had entered his side about half an inch, he surrendered
the prize. After we had plundered and stripped them of every thing, we set to to kick them,
and we did it for half an hour so effectually that they were all left groaning in a heap on
the ballast, and we then found our way on deck.

The privateer which had recaptured us proved to be the Hero, of New Providence; the Frenchmen
were taken out, and some of her own men put in to take us to Port Royal; we being wounded,
and not willing to join her, remained on board. On our arrival at Port Royal, we obtained permission
to go to the King's Hospital to be cured. As I went up stairs to the ward allotted to me, I
met the French lady whose husband had been killed, and who was still nursing her son at the
hospital, his wounds not having been yet cured. Notwithstanding my altered appearance, she
knew me again immediately, and seeing me pale and emaciated, with my arm in a sling, she dropped
down on her knees and thanked God for returning upon our heads a portion of the miseries we
had brought upon her. She was delighted when she heard how many of us had been slain in the
murderous conflict, and even rejoiced at the death of poor Captain Weatherall, which, considering
how very kind and considerate he had been to her, I thought to be very unchristian.

It so happened that I was not only in the same ward, but in the cradle next to her son, and
the excitement I had been under when we were recaptured, and my exertion in kicking the Frenchmen,
had done me no good. A fever was the consequence, and I suffered dreadfully, and she would
look at me, exulting in my agony, and mocking my groans, till at last the surgeon told her
it was by extreme favour that her son had been admitted into the hospital instead of being
sent to prison, and that if she did not behave herself in a proper manner, he would order her
to be denied admittance altogether, and that if she dared to torment suffering men in that
way, on the first complaint on my part, her son should go to the gaol and finish his cure there.
This brought her to her senses, and she begged pardon, and promised to offend no more, but
she did not keep her word for more than a day or two, but laughed out loud when the surgeon
was dressing my arm, for a piece of bone had to be taken out, and I shrieked with anguish.
This exasperated one of my messmates so much that, not choosing to strike her, and knowing
how to wound her still worse, he drove his fist into the head of her son as he lay in his cradle,
and by so doing re-opened the wound that had been nearly healed.

"There's pain for you to laugh at, you French devil," he cried.

And sure enough it cost the poor young man his life.

The surgeon was very angry with the man, but told the French lady as she kneeled sobbing by
the side of her son, that she had brought it upon herself and him by her own folly and cruelty.
I know not whether she felt so, or whether she dreaded a repetition, but this is certain, she
tormented me no more. On the contrary, I think she suffered very severely, as she perceived
that I rapidly mended, and that her poor son got on but slowly. At last my hurts were all healed,
and I left the hospital, hoping never to see her more.

CHAPTER IV.

    Sail for Liverpool in the Sally and Kitty--Fall in with
    a Gale--Boy overboard--Nearly drowned in attempting to
    save him--See the owners at Liverpool--Embark in the
    Dalrymple for the Coast of Africa--Arrive off Senegal.

A great deal of prize-money being due to us, I called upon the agent at Port Royal to obtain
an advance. I found him in a puzzle. Owing to the death of Captain Weatherall and so many of
the officers, he hardly knew whether those who applied to him were entitled to prize-money
or not. Whether he thought I appeared more honest than the others, or from what cause I know
not, he requested me, as I knew every thing that had passed, to remain with him for a short
time; and finding that I could read and write well, he obtained from me correct lists of the
privateer's crew, with those who were killed, and on what occasion. All this information I
was able to give him, as well as the ratings of the parties; for on more than one occasion
the privateers'-men had come to him representing themselves as petty officers, when they were
only common seamen on board, and had in consequence received from him a larger advance than
they were entitled to. As soon as his accounts were pretty well made up, he asked me whether
I intended to go to England, as if so, he would send me home with all the papers and documents
to the owner at Liverpool, who would require my assistance to arrange the accounts; and as
I had had quite enough of privateering for a time, I consented to go. About two months after
leaving the hospital, during which I had passed a very pleasant life, and quite recovered from
my wounds and injuries, I sailed for Liverpool in the Sally and Kitty West-Indiaman, commanded
by Captain Clarke, a very violent man.

We had not sailed twelve hours before we fell in with a gale, which lasted several days, and
we kept under close-reef-topsails and storm-staysails. The gale lasting a week, raised a mountainous
swell, but it was very long and regular. On the seventh day the wind abated, but the swell
continued, and at evening there was very little wind, when a circumstance occurred which had
nearly cost me my life, as you will acknowledge, Madam, when I relate the story to you. During
the dog-watch between six and eight, some hands being employed in the foretop, the other watch
below at supper, and the captain and all the officers in the cabin, I being at the helm, heard
a voice apparently rising out of the sea, calling me by name. Surprised, I ran to the side
of the ship, and saw a youth named Richard Pallant in the water going astern. He had fallen
out of the forechains, and knowing that I was at the helm, had shouted to me for help. I immediately
called all hands, crying a man overboard. The captain hastened on deck with all the others,
and ordered the helm a-lee. The ship went about, and then fell round off, driving fast before
the swell, till at last we brought her to.

The captain, although a resolute man, was much confused and perplexed at the boy's danger--for
his friends were people of property at Ipswich, and had confided the boy to his particular
care. He ran backwards and forwards, crying out that the boy must perish, as the swell was
so high that he dared not send a boat, for the boat could not live in such a sea, and if the
boat were lost with the crew, there would not be hands enow left on board to take the vessel
home. As the youth was not a hundred yards from the vessel, I stated the possibility of swimming
to him with the deep-sea line, which would be strong enough to haul both him and the man who
swam to him on board. Captain Clarke, in a great rage, swore that it was impossible, and asked
me who the devil would go. Piqued at his answer, and anxious to preserve the life of the youth,
I offered to try it myself. I stripped, and making the line fast round my body, plunged from
the ship's side into the sea. It was a new deep-sea line, and stiff in the coil, so that not
drawing close round me, it slipped, and I swam through it, but catching it as it slipped over
my feet, I made it secure by putting my head and one arm through the noose. I swam direct for
the boy, and found that I swam with ease, owing to the strength and buoyant nature of the water
in those latitudes. I had not swum more than half-way before the line got foul on the coil
on board, and checking me suddenly, it pulled me backwards and under water. I recovered myself,
and struck out again. During this time, to clear the line on board, they had cut some of the
entangled parts, and in the confusion and hurry, severed the wrong part, so that the end went
overboard, and I had half the coil of line hanging to me, and at the same time was adrift from
the ship. They immediately hailed me to return, but from the booming of the waves I could not
hear what they said, and thought that they were encouraging me to proceed. I shouted in return
to show the confidence which I had in myself. I easily mounted the waves as they breasted me,
but still I made my way very slowly against such a swell, and saw the boy only at intervals
when I was on the top of the wave. He could swim very little, and did not make for the ship,
but with his eyes fixed upon the sky, paddled like a dog to keep himself above water. I now
began to feel the weight of the line upon me, and to fear that I should never hold out. I began
to repent of my rashness, and thought I had only sacrificed myself without any chance of saving
him. I persevered, nevertheless, and having, as I guessed, come to the spot where the boy was,
I looked round, and not seeing him, was afraid that he had gone down, but on mounting the next
wave, I saw him in the hollow, struggling hard to keep above water, and almost spent with his
long exertion.

I swam down to him, and hailing him, found he was still sensible, but utterly exhausted. I
desired him to hold on by my hand but not to touch my body, as we should both sink. He promised
to obey me, and I held out my right-hand to him, and made a signal for them to haul in on board,
for I had no idea that the line had been cut. I was frightened when I perceived the distance
that the ship was from me--at least a quarter of a mile. I knew that the deep-sea line was
but a hundred fathoms in length, and therefore that I must be adrift, and my heart sunk within
me. All the horrors of my situation came upon me, and I felt that I was lost; but although
death appeared inevitable, I still struggled for life--but the rope now weighed me down more
and more. While swimming forward it trailed behind, and although it impeded my way, I did not
feel half its weight. Now, however, that I was stationary, it sank deep, and pulled me down
with it. The waves, too, which, while I breasted them and saw them approach, I easily rose
over, being now behind us, broke over our heads, burying us under them, or rolling us over
by their force.

I tried to disengage myself from the line, but the noose being jammed, and having the boy in
one hand, I could not possibly effect it. But what gave me courage in my difficulties was,
that I perceived that the people on board were getting out the boat; for although the captain
would not run the risk for one person, now that two were overboard, and one of them risking
his life for the other, the men insisted that the boat should be hoisted out. It was an anxious
time to me, but at last I had the satisfaction of seeing her clear of the ship, and pulling
round her bow. The danger was, however, considered so great, that when they came to man the
boat, only three men could be found who would go in her, and in the confusion they came away
with but two oars and no rudder. Under these disadvantages they of course pulled very slowly
against a mountainous sea, as they were obliged to steer with the oars to meet it, that the
boat might not be swamped. But the sight of the boat was sufficient to keep me up. My exertions
were certainly incredible; but what will not a man do when in fear of death. As it approached--slowly
and slowly did my powers decrease. I was now often under water with the boy, and rose again
to fresh exertion, when at last a crested wave broke over us, and down we went several feet
under the water. The force of the sea drove the boy against me, and he seized me by the loins
with my head downwards. I struggled to disengage myself! It was impossible. I gave myself up
for lost--and what a crowd of thoughts, and memories passed through my brain in a few moments,
for it could not have been longer. At last, being head downwards, I dived deeper, although
I was bursting from so long holding my breath under water.

This had the desired effect. Finding me sinking instead of rising with him, the boy let go
his hold that he might gain the surface. I turned and followed him, and drew breath once more.
Another moment had sealed our fates. I no longer thought of saving the boy, but struck out
for the boat which was now near me. Perceiving this, the boy cried out to me for pity's sake
not to leave him. I felt myself so far recovered from my exhaustion, that I thought I could
save him as well as myself, and compassion induced me to turn back. I again gave him my hand,
charging him on his life not to attempt to grapple with me, and again resumed the arduous struggle
of keeping him as well as myself above water. My strength was nearly gone, the boat approached
but slowly, and we now sunk constantly under the water, rising every few seconds to draw breath.
Merciful God! how slow appeared the approach of the boat. Struggle after struggle--fainter
and fainter still--still I floated. At last my senses almost left me, I took in water in quantities.
I felt I was in green fields, when I was seized by the men and thrown into the bottom of the
boat, where I lay senseless alongside of the boy. There was great danger and difficulty in
getting again to the ship. More than once the boat was half filled by the following seas, and
when they gained the ship it was impossible to get us out, as, had they approached the side,
the boat would have been dashed to atoms. They lowered the tackles from the yard-arms. The
three men clambered up them, leaving us to take our chance of the boat being got in, or her
being stove to pieces; in which latter case, we should have been lost. They did get us in,
with great damage to the boat, but we were saved. The line was still round me, and it was found
that I had been supporting the weight of seventy yards. So sore was I with such exertion, that
I kept my hammock for many days, during which I reviewed my past life, and vowed amendment.

We arrived at Liverpool without any further adventure worth recording, and I immediately called
upon the owner with the papers intrusted to me. I gave him all the information he required,
and he asked me whether I should like to return to privateering, or to go as mate of a vessel
bound to the coast of Africa. I inquired what her destination was to be, and as I found that
she was to go to Senegal for ivory, wax, gold dust, and other articles, in exchange for English
prints and cutlery, I consented. I mention this, as, had she been employed in the slave-trade,
as were most of the vessels from Liverpool to the Coast, I would not have joined her. A few
days afterwards, I went on board of the Dalrymple, Captain Jones, as mate; we had a very quick
passage to Senegal, and brought our vessel to an anchor off the bar.

CHAPTER V.

    In crossing the Bar at Senegal the boat is upset by a
    Tornado--We escape being devoured by Sharks only to be
    captured by the Natives--Are taken into the interior of
    the country, and brought before the Negro King, from
    whose wrath we are saved by the intercession of his
    female attendants.

A day or two after we had arrived, the master of another vessel that was at anchor near to
us came on board and borrowed our long-boat and some hands that he might go in it to Senegal.
The captain, who was an old friend of the party who made the request, agreed to lend it to
him, and as accidents are very frequent with boats crossing the bar, on account of the heavy
breakers, the best swimmers were selected for the purpose, and the charge of the boat was given
to me. We set off, five men rowing and I at the helm. When we approached the bar, a tornado,
which had been for some time threatening, came upon us. The impetuosity of these blasts is
to be matched in no part of the world, and as it came at once in its full force, we endeavoured,
by putting the boat before it, to escape its fury. This compelled us to run to the southward
along the coast. We managed to keep the boat up for a long while, and hoped to have weathered
it, when, being on the bar, and in broken water, a large wave curled over us, filled the boat,
and it went down in an instant.

Our only chance now was to reach the shore by swimming, but it was at a distance, with broken
water the whole way; and our great terror was from the sharks, which abound on the coast and
are extremely ravenous--nor were we without reason for our alarm. Scarcely had the boat gone
down, and we were all stretching out for the shore, when one of our men shrieked, having been
seized by the sharks, and instantly torn to pieces. His blood stained the water all around,
and this attracting all the sharks proved the means of our escape. Never shall I forget the
horrible sensation which I felt as I struggled through the broken water, expecting every minute
a limb to be taken off by one of those voracious animals. If one foot touched the other, my
heart sank, thinking it was the nose of a shark, and that its bite would immediately follow.
Agonized with these terrors, we struggled on--now a large wave curling over us and burying
us under water, or now forced by the waves towards the beach, rolling us over and over. So
battered were we by the surf, that we dived under the waves to escape the blows which we received,
and then rose and struck out again. At last, worn out with exertion, we gained the shore, but
our toil was not over.

The beach was of a sand so light that it crumbled beneath us, and at the return of the wave
which threw us on shore we were dragged back again, and buried in sand and water. We rose to
renew our endeavours, but several times without success, for we could not obtain a firm footing.
At last the Negroes, who had witnessed our accident, and who now came down in great numbers
on the beach, laid hold of us as the sea threw us up, and dragged us beyond the reach of the
waves. Worn out with fatigue we lay on the sand, waiting to ascertain what the savages would
do with us; they were not long in letting us know, for they soon began to strip us of every
article of clothing on our backs. One of our men attempted to resist, upon which a Negro drove
a spear through his thigh.

Having divided our apparel, after some consultation, they tied our hands, and placing us in
the midst of a large force, armed with spears, and bows and arrows, they went off with us for
the inland part of the country. We set off with heavy hearts; taking, as we thought, a last
farewell of the ocean, and going forwards in great apprehension of the fate that awaited us.
The sand was very deep, and the heat of the sun excessive, for it was then about noon. Without
any garments, we were soon scorched and blistered all over, and in intolerable anguish, as
well as fatigued; but the Negroes compelled us to move on, goading us with their spears if
we slackened our pace, and threatening to run us through if we made a halt. We longed for the
night, as it would afford a temporary relief to our sufferings. It came at last, and the Negroes
collected wood and lighted a fire to keep off the wild beasts, lying round it in a circle,
and placing us in the midst of them. We hoped to have some rest after what we had gone through,
but it was impossible--the night proved even worse than the day. The musquitoes came down upon
us in such swarms, and their bites were so intolerable that we were almost frantic. Our hands
being tied, we could not beat them off, and we rolled over and over to get rid of them. This
made matters worse, for our whole bodies being covered with raised blisters from the rays of
the sun, our roiling over and over broke the blisters, and the sand getting into the wounds,
added to the bites of the musquitoes, made our sufferings intolerable. We had before prayed
for night, we now prayed for day. Some prayed for death.

When the sun rose, we set off again, our conductors utterly disregarding our anguish, and goading
us on as before. In the forenoon we arrived at a village, where our guards refreshed themselves;
a very small quantity of boiled corn was given to each of us, and we continued our journey,
passing by several small towns, consisting, as they all do in that country, of huts built of
reeds, round in form, and gathered to a point at top. This day was the same as the preceding.
We were pricked with spears if we stumbled or lagged, threatened with death if we had not strength
to go on. At last the evening arrived, and the fires were lighted. The fires were much larger
than before, I presume because the wild beasts were more numerous, for we heard them howling
in every direction round us, which we had not done on the night before. The musquitoes did
not annoy us so much, and we obtained some intervals of broken rest. At daylight we resumed
our journey, as near as we could judge by the sun, in a more easterly direction.

During the first two days we were badly received by the inhabitants of the towns, whose people
had been kidnapped so often for the slave-trade; they hated the sight of our white faces, for
they presumed that we had come for that purpose; but as we advanced in the interior, we were
better treated, and the natives looked upon us with surprise and wonder, considering us as
a new race of beings. Some of the women seeing how utterly exhausted we were with fatigue and
hunger, looked with compassion on us, and brought us plenty of boiled corn and goats' milk
to drink. This refreshed us greatly, and we continued our journey in anxious expectation of
the fate for which we were reserved.

On crossing a small river, which appeared to be the boundary of two different states, a multitude
of Negroes approached, and seemed disposed to take us from our present masters, but after a
conference, they agreed among themselves, and a party of them joined with those who had previously
conducted us. We soon came to the edge of a desert, and there we halted till the Negroes had
filled several calabashes and gourds full of water, and collected a quantity of boiled corn.
As soon as this was done, we set off again, and entered the desert. We were astonished and
terrified when we looked around us, not a single vestige of herbage, not a blade of grass was
to be seen--all was one wide waste of barren sand, so light as to rise in clouds at the least
wind, and we sank so deep in walking through it that at last we could hardly drag one foot
after the other. But we were repaid for our fatigue, for when we halted at night, no fires
were lighted, and to our great delight we found that there were no musquitoes to annoy us.
We fell into a sound sleep, which lasted till morning, and were much refreshed; indeed, so
much so as to enable us to pursue our journey with alacrity.

In our passage over the desert we saw numbers of elephants' teeth, but no animals. How the
teeth came there, unless it were that the elephants were lost in attempting to cross the desert,
I cannot pretend to say. Before we had crossed the desert, our water was expended, and we suffered
dreadfully from thirst, walking as we did during the whole day under a vertical sun. But nothing,
nothing! The sky was clear and cloudless and the player wanted to go home two, as their distance
on the horizon showed a slight veil.

"Wind - storm," said the farmer from joy, "that brings rain," He
was not mistaken.

Closer and closer to blowing the veil, he broke into many fragments,
the dark clouds were forming, and finally approached a thick wall
of clouds to zusammenballten.

Since it came on, first a faint murmur, then a whisper in the branches. Shyly hid the birds and the
singers of the forest fell silent, only croaking ravens and petrels
traverses the air.

Now it hissed and whistled through the trees, which lowered their heads in fear and trembling.
Now we started the groaning, rattling, rattling, hissing, howling and roaring like a wild
army storm raced up the spirits of vengeance. Bimbo and his wife paid no attention to the terrible
storm, and her heart was full of joy, for this storm meant for her blessing, a blessing not
only the harvest but also another blessing that they did not expect. [Buntbild] After the first
shock of the storm sky poured down the precious water of the the parched fields and watered the
parched earth mother. Bimbo saw all this with delight, and pressed
the hand of his wife happy.

Then suddenly drove a blinding flash of lightning to the ground between
them and blinded their eyes, while a terrible clap of thunder sounded,
so that both sank stunned.

When
she awoke from her stupor to the bad weather had cleared and the sun laughed again refreshed,
shining down on the floor. But Bimbo and his wife were not only more, because to their great surprise,
was lying next to them a pretty little child, a boy, at the exact spot where the lightning ground
was driven into the. It smiled very pretty and friendly, and stretched his arms rosy the two thrice
old forward. Quickly picked Bimbo child from the wet ground on that and hid it protectively under
his straw casing [4], then he hurried his wife home with him and prepared the child a warm couch. Now
old man in the two joy Swept and her longtime wish fulfilled. At last
they had a child, had something for which they provide and they love
all their waste could.

What should be the name? Bimbo It was not in doubt. "The child has given us Raiden" gift, "he said to
his wife , "so let's call it Raitaro," And so it happened.

The boy grew up to the delight of his parents, but he was quite a different nature than the other children of
the village. He found no pleasure with the other children gambol
their games or attend.

Most of all, he accompanied his father on the field or tumbled around in the woods alone for hours or
lay on his back and followed the course of the winds and the flight of birds. A storm put him
in delight, and the roar of thunder, he broke into a loud shouting.

Had so the old people their joy at the child, this brought them blessing
and also kept away from any mischief.

The fields gave abundant harvest, no drought and excessive rain no
longer destroyed the fruit of painstaking work, and all the best flourished
Bimbo, so that he soon became a degree of prosperity.

Brought Eighteen years had finally rolled away; they celebrated the
day of discovery Raitaros by a festive feast, with song and merry
words.

Raitaro
but remained quiet and introverted and futile was the effort of his
parents cheer him up.

As evening approached and the dusk fell, rose Raitaro and thanked his parents for all the good
that they had shown him. "My time is up," he said at last, intention "my profit you to have
succeeded, even in the future I will watch over you. Farewell! "While these words had a dark
cloud approached and fell slowly down on Raitaro, enveloping him completely, and then they rose
again and disappeared swiftly into an immense height, but the place where Raitaro had stood was empty.
Bimbo and his wife were very upset and sad and could not understand
at all that they now in their old days but should be lonely, as it
now but suffer needed Not to none, and could live carefree, so was
the pain of separation tempered and quiet sadly they submitted to
the inevitable.

She lived for many years and died at last, both advanced in the same hour. On her grave stone was a
set that has the history Raitaro's told and this shape of a flying dragon depicted was in itself.
This stone is still there, but wraps it a many centuries of a moss. But whoever takes care of you
can, the weather-beaten characters the story of Raitaro, the thunder
of the Son, decipher from the way I here repeated to have them.

[Note 1 Rai = thunder, taro = son = son of thunder, son of thunder.] [ Note 2: Say: Haksan
= Haku = white; also Shiro = white. So "white mountain." He's m since 1554 is an extinct volcano
and 2720 high. The snow on this mountain in winter is enormous, it has at 800 meters a 6 to
7 feet of snow already found, so that an ascent of the mountain than a mile up in the winter was
impracticable.] [Note 3: Bimbo = poor.] [Note 4: The farmers, sailors, etc. also wear a coat
today in the rain out of straw, usually rice straw, made even that
keeps you warm and rain does not pass.

Such a coat is shaped like a Pellerin and is ½ to ¾ feet long.] [Decorating] [decorating] Hotaru [1].
In a lotus flower, a large pond was in, lived a worms-family: father, mother and daughter . The latter,
"Little Hotaru" called, was a most lovely creature.

When the evening was mild and beautiful, she went on the large lotus leaf walk, she was a beautiful
garden. She often listened to the concert of the frogs that lived in the same ponds. It was
dark, she lit lantern in her, that shone so heavenly, shimmering light from one that even the
moon to shame would hide. Since small-Hotaru was now a sweet thing so inevitable it could not,
that they soon from suitors was swarmed. approached her, no one,
but also of the evening, when they dream in darkness sat, remained
alone, because then no one could it numerous free sight. her Had they
but their lanterns lit, then gave During the day a lively bustle,
and then hummed, mumbled and it was chirping and then fluttered, fluttered
and buzzed it, and then they all came to the beautiful Hotaru to wife
coveted There were. moths, beetles, bees, flies, in short, every flying
insect was present and showed his skill to favor in Hotaru's to find
eyes.

This remained aloof, but she enjoyed it and she was proud, so to be swarmed,
also made her the doings of all the little creatures at first great fun,
but it finally was this constant intrusion annoying, but it was not
the only one hour more for themselves in which they could indulge
their fantasies without being disturbed, and she decided to get rid
of all the free.

    Therefore they said to them: "I want one of you like
    free, but who wants to be my husband, I must bring a light,
    the at least as light as mine, "Everyone listened and
    made this decision quickly on the way such a light to seek
    and procure. was the first to be sure of the win Hotaru. was now
at the first moment a terrible crowd, more so than Hotaru her lantern
had gone out every one.

Many butterflies were wings crushed one, some beetles fell into the
pond and became a frog swallow, legs and antennae were lost, in short,
it was an indescribable mess, but who finally put an end was also,
like all things in the world.

Then moved every one of his goals, wherever a light was in sight, flew up the suitors as well. The
Moth was the first who fell a victim. He flew through an open window in a room where a scholar
lamplight on his books sitting at, kicked and burned his head on the hot lamp chimney. Despite the
pain he gave his attempts to come to the flame and was not finally
an air hole of the burner crawled through, but, alas! the flame scorched
his wings and hiss - hiss - the butterfly was dead So it was thousands
of suitors, and the dashed one in the heat of the coal basin, another
in the flame of a candle, some people even flew in the eye and were
killed.

But more and more crowds durchschwirrten the air to catch a little
light and can bring home to Hotaru.

Of all the [also learned Hitaro 2] and thought to himself, when so many suitors in order to
obtain Hotaru, risk their lives and leave it, then they must be very beautiful. So he made himself one
evening on his way to see Hotaru.

His apartment was only eight lotus flowers from the Hotarus.

When he saw Hotaru had because he was so delighted that he returned
quickly and Hotarus parents, the mediator sent the hand stop had her
at [3] and they promised was also more so as he could Hotarus meet
the condition, for he had an equally lovely little lights like herself,
and was also a handsome fellow.

After so everything was in order, the wedding was celebrated with
great pomp.

They lived happily ever after, leaving a numerous progeny. The condition, however, that every one of
one of these worms was free, bring needed little light one, was in
honor held high and was now of the family law.

Therefore, they say, when the evening insects around the light buzz to and the wings : burn "That
was Hotarus" Free or "worms Freedom has sent." [Note 1: Hotaru = worms.] [Note 2: Hitaro =
Hi = Fire, taro = son = fire son = fireflies.] [Note 3 : Japanese
custom requires that the courtship by a third - Brokers - done. it
would be improper, the suitor would even do it.] [decoration] Horaisan.

[1] On the islands of eternal life, Horaisan called reigns eternal happiness and eternal peace, where
there is neither pain nor sickness nor death, neither pain nor strife, there reigns an eternal
spring and eternal glory, no storm, no winter destroyed the eternal
beauty resplendent in nature.

Therefore, it is no wonder that people this country is longing for and no stone unturned, it can
be found. But there is still no one from the intention of taking off in the country to look
for that wonderful, managed to find it, for a long, long voyage, it separates one from all known
countries; but no one knows the direction he pull must in order to
find it, no one knows the location of the acclaimed country, only the
swallows and summer birds, winter Japan leave, know the Happy Isles
and move there when the winter storm Japan durchbraust .

But he who is pure of heart and not with the intention moves out, the battle of life to deprive themselves,
who does not intend to live in peace and happiness, without having to God and man to fulfill his
duties, which it may happen that it a favorable to the gods sent by wind to the ever-green islands
leads, but never, he returns then, because breastfeeding is all his sinews and every desire satisfied.
Before long, long years, we are told by the Japanese storyteller, gave the gods a select few good
fortune Horaisan; to find but only one called back and Wasobiowo
returned brought news of this blessed land, yes, it was even him a
fruit from there to bring it, namely the Orange, which in Japan unknown:
before, but now, thanks Wasobiowo the first fruit brought from home
is also here.

It is said that once in China was ruled by a cruel imperial, imperious,
and intolerant, so no one could understand or something, his life
was safe, because he wanted to be the only one, perfect in all.

Who more than he could, he let the remedy. This emperor also had a body like all Kaiser doctor, whose
name was Jofuku. This was a most learned man and very clever, but the emperor sought to kill
him because he was afraid of the doctor's wisdom. He was not hurt but because he knew no better doctor.
But finally, the doctor of this life in fear and terror tired and
he thought a list of how he could do it, and from the land areas of
the emperor to flee the .

He was also a good idea and he said one day to the Emperor: "You have the evergreen islands of eternal
life, but recently heard tell. Give me permission to look for them, so I medicinal herbs
and fruit for eternal life-giving you can get there from. If I succeed, you will be in eternal
happiness to live, nothing to suffer, and ruler of the whole world, "This speech flattered the
emperor and hope even more power and violence in order to obtain,
he gave the doctors permission to depart, threatened him, but the
death when he sought to return the gifts would not.

The doctor was given a ship and a large retinue and embarked. Once in Japan, he let in the night,
when the entourage had gone to the country and there amused silence in the anchor light and drove
on to another place to search. But not at all what he had meant that he wanted to succeed can
be gods, because suddenly there was a terrible storm, and drove the ship back and forth for
several days, the control was lost, the manning was thrown into the sea by the storm and finally
entered the beautiful weather as was the only doctor alone on the ships, which he did not
govern.

A brave man like him, but not desperate, turned to the gods, and lo and behold, when he had finished
his prayer, was a quiet ride in boat driven forward and landed at last on the Horaisan. Hardly He
had left the ship and entered the country since the ship sank without trace in the sea, cutting
off any return him.

On the shore he met the Japanese Wasobiowo who greeted him and told him where he was. There was the
doctor thought not at all happy and more interested in returning to China to Emperor undeserved
good fortune to bring the brutal, but he stayed on Horaisan and no one has heard from him since
then some. Wasobiowo Anders. This used to live in Nagasaki, where he owned a house that he lived
with a servant, and where he lived in quiet retirement, with all sorts of arts and sciences employing
only. His favorite occupation was fishing and he could often for days the sea pass on, only only
only fish to or in the boat lying the stars to watch the progress and calculate. One evening he was back
to his fishing tackle provided with, in glorious moonlight sea rowed. The starry, quiet night but
let him fishing forgotten; dreaming he followed the course of the stars and enjoyed the strong,
cooling waving Meeresodems. The rowing hands slipped from his and he did not know how long he's dreamy
thoughts had left, as the sky became overcast and heranraste a terrible
storm.

Without a rudder, he was powerless waves and mercy of the storm and only with the help of the steering
wheel he was able to boat capsize to save it from, the speed sometimes
over eerie, the high-running waves then shot with you soon in the
black troughs sank that threatened to swallow it .

Finally, put the fury of the storm, it was broad daylight, but Wasobiowo
saw nothing but the vast, billowing sea, not one character, never
one point, the restless, roving eye, an idea found would have the
to to orient themselves.

He was himself
to his fate, and awaited the evening, from positions of stars to
determine the order may, where he was.

In the evening
when the stars came to the fore, he saw to his horror that he was one hundred
miles away from home several and not at all because he could think
of was to go back there without a rudder, all the less as it opposed
the wind blowing constantly introduced.

Wasobiowo hoped in this country to find the direction soon or to
meet a ship, so he tried using the rudder as possible to keep a straight
course , but they ultimately failed because the wind direction changed.

For three whole months he went on so on the sea and lived on the fish
he caught with his rod and had to eat raw, as he had no lighter with
you.

After this long period, finally settled in the water plants to show
that, depending on he came, were more dense, the sea lost its brilliant
color, and finally went into a densely overgrown with plants of all
types of marsh where the boat is not more could continue.

But Wasobiowo did not lose courage. He seized the plant and moved it, and behold, it was held
as ropes. Then began an arduous work. Plant to plant by grasping, he retired with the boat continues
through this tangle of plants, through this morass. Than forty hours took work, dead tired, weak
and half starved, he was, because here there was not even the smallest
creatures, which he could use as food, as he had overcome this disastrous
route at last.

Now before him was a silvery sea and in the distance shone a green country dominated by one up to
the sky-reaching mountains.

It was Horaisan with Fusan [2], but did not yet Wasobiowo, indeed suspected it not once, but
was happy just to finally see land. A flow led him to the country and ten hours after his boat
struck on the gold and silver as shiny, sand-beach. Overjoyed, he jumped from the boat, fell
down and thanked the gods for his safety. But - wonder of wonders! When, after the prayers
rose up, fatigue was all his disappeared, forgotten were all the hardships of his journey,
he felt neither hunger nor thirst, and a blissful forces feeling pervaded him. Since approached
see as him, venerable men, and beautiful, noble ladies, it welcomed, they praised his good fortune
to have survived the journey to Horaisan and took it as a new citizen in their midst. Now
he knew he was on Horaisan on Horaisan he for fabulous, non-existent country had kept one
always . It really existed, yes, he was now in this wonderful land
come and even included as citizens.

Again he thanked the gods. The rush hours and on days, weeks on this, then moons, and finally
to years. The years centuries, then thousands, and so on in innumerable
amount for all eternity. Horaisan But there are no hours, no day and
no night, no time and no time change, no food and no drinking, no
suffering and no death. In eternal bliss in witty conversations, stimulating
conversation, with music, song and dance time deleting the unstoppable
without change and therefore unnoticed over.

    
    [Image] Who can therefore say how long Wasobiowo
    on Horaisan was whether it decades or centuries, when
    the gods sent a new arrival, those Chinese doctor Jofuku Since
    its arrival, however, was. Wasobiowo transformed. The
    doctor had brought home air Wasobiowo had his appearance in an awakened
slumbering thoughts?

Who can say?


One morning I perceived that one of the king's guards, who had always treated me with great
kindness, and with whom I was very intimate, was tied up to the executioner's post before the
hut. Aware of the fate which awaited him, I ran to the hut of Whyna, and so great was my distress
that I could not speak; all I could do was to clasp her knees and repeat the man's name, pointing
to the post to which he was tied. She understood me, and eager to save the man, or to oblige
me, she ran to the large hut, and attempted to intercede with the old barbarian for the man's
life; but he was in an agony of rage and passion; he refused her, lifting up his sabre to despatch
the man; Whyna was rash enough to seize the king's arm, and prevent the blow, at this his rage
redoubled, his eyes glowed like live coals, and turning to her with the look of a demon, he
caught her by the hair, and dragging her across his feet, lifted up his scimitar in the act
to strike off her head. I sickened with horror at the danger she was in, but I thought he would
not strike. I had no weapon, but if he had done so, I would have revenged her death, even if
I had lost my life. At last the old monster let go her hair, spurning her away with his foot,
so that she rolled over on the sand, and then turning to the unhappy man, with an upward slanting
blow of his sabre, he ripped him up from the flank to the chest, so that his bowels fell down
at his feet; he then looked round at us all with an aspect which froze our blood, and turned
away sulkily to his hut, leaving us to recover our spirits how we might.

Poor Whyna, terrified and enraged at the same time, as soon as I had led her to her hut, and
we were by ourselves, gave way to the storm of passion which swelled her bosom, execrating
her husband with the utmost loathing and abhorrence, and lamenting in the most passionate manner
her having ever been connected with him. Trembling alike at the danger to which I had exposed
her, and moved by her condition, I could not help mingling my tears with hers, and endeavoured
by caresses and condoling with her to reduce her excitement. Had the old king seen me, I know
what both our fates would have been, but at that time I cared not. I was very young, very impetuous,
and I was resolved that I would not permit either her or myself to die unavenged. At last she
sobbed herself to sleep, and I took my usual station outside of the hut. It was well that I
did so, for not five minutes afterwards the old wretch, having got over his temper, came out
of his tent and bent his steps towards the hut, that he might make friends with her, for she
was too necessary to his happiness. He soon treated her with his accustomed kindness, but I
perceived that after the scene I have described, her aversion for him was doubled.

There were some scores of women in the various huts within the palisade, all of whom I understood
were wives to the old monarch, but none but the four we found with him when we were first brought
into his presence were ever to be seen in his company. I had, by means of my kind mistress,
the opportunity of constantly supplying my companions with fowls and venison, which was left
from the king's table, and through her care, they always met with kind and gentle usage.

For another two months did I thus remain happy in the company of Whyna, and miserable when
in the presence of the king, whose eye it was impossible to meet without quailing; when one
morning we were all ordered out, and were surrounded by a large party armed with spears, javelins,
and bird-arrows--I say bird-arrows, as those that they use in war are much larger. We soon
discovered that we were to be sent to some other place, but where or why, we could not find
out. Shortly afterwards the crowd opened, and Whyna made her appearance. She took the feather
circle off my head, and the manacles off my wrist and leg, and went and laid them at the king's
feet. She then returned, and told me that I was free as well as my companions, but that I only,
if I chose, had permission to remain with her.

I did not at first reply. She then, in the most earnest manner, begged me to remain with her
as her slave; and as she did not dare to say what she felt, or use caresses to prevail upon
me, she stamped her little feet with eagerness and impatience. The struggle in my own heart
was excessive. I presumed that we were about to be made a present to some other king, and I
felt that I never could expect so easy and so pleasant a servitude as I then enjoyed. I was
sincerely attached, and indeed latterly, I was more than attached, to Whyna; I felt that it
was dangerous. Had the old king been dead, I would have been content to pass my life with her;
and I was still hesitating, notwithstanding the remonstrances of my companions, when the crowd
opened a little, and I beheld the old king looking at me, and I felt convinced that his jealousy
was at last aroused, and that if I consented to remain, my life would not be worth a day's
purchase.

Whyna also turned, and met the look of the old king. Whether she read in his countenance what
I did, I know not; but this is certain, she made no more attempts to persuade me, but waving
her hand for us to set off on our journey, she slowly retired, and when arrived at the hut
turned round towards us. We all prostrated ourselves before her, and then set off on our journey.
She retired to the door of her own hut, and two or three times waved her hand to us, at which
our guards made us every time again prostrate ourselves. She then walked out to the little
hill where she always went up to pray, and for the last time waved her hand, and then I perceived
her sink down on the ground, and turn her head in the direction which she always did when she
prayed.

We now proceeded on our journey in a north-west direction, our guards treating us with the
greatest kindness. We rested every day from ten till four o'clock in the afternoon, and then
walked till late at night. Corn was supplied us from the scattered hamlets as we passed along,
and our escort procured us flesh and fowl with their bows and arrows; but we were in a state
of great anxiety to know where we were going, and nobody appeared able or willing to tell us.
I often thought of Whyna, and at times repented that I had not remained with her, as I feared
falling into a worse slavery, but the recollection of the old king's diabolical parting look
was sufficient to make me think that it was best as it was. Now that I had left my mistress,
I thought of her kindness and amiable qualities, and her affection for me; and although it
may appear strange that I should feel myself in love with a black woman, I will not deny but
that I was so. I could not help being so, and that is all the excuse I can offer.

Our guards now informed us that we were about to pass for a few miles through the territory
of another king, and that they were not sure what our reception might be; but this was soon
made evident, for we observed a party behind us, which moved as we moved, although they did
not attack us; and soon afterwards a larger body in front were blocking up our passage, and
we found that we were beset. The commander of our party, therefore, gave orders for battle,
and he put into our hands strong spears, they being the only weapons we could use, and entreated
us to fight. Our party was greatly outnumbered by the enemy, but ours were chosen warriors.
As for us white men, we kept together, agreeing among ourselves, that we would defend ourselves
if attacked, but would not offend either party by taking an unnecessary part in the fray, as
it was immaterial to us to whom we belonged.

The battle, or rather skirmish, soon began. They dispersed, and shot their arrows from behind
the trees, and this warfare continued some time without damage to either party, till at last
they attacked us closely; then, our commander killing that of the enemy, they gave way just
as another party was coming forward to attack us white men; but finding us resolute in our
defence, and our own warriors coming to our assistance, the rout was general. They could not,
however, prevent some prisoners from being taken; most of them wounded with the bird-arrows,
which, having their barbs twisted in the form of an S, gave great pain in their extraction.
I observed that a particular herb chewed, and bound up with the bleeding wound, was their only
remedy, and that when the bone was injured, they considered the wound mortal.

We now turned to the eastward to get back into our own territory; we left the prisoners and
wounded at a village, and receiving a reinforcement, we took a circuit to avoid this hostile
people, and continued our route. On the eighth morning, just as we were stopping to repose,
one of the warriors, who had mounted a hill before us, shouted and waved his hand. We ran up
to him, and as soon as we gained the summit, were transported with the sight of the British
flag flying on Senegal fort, on the other side of the river. We now understood that by some
means or another we had been ransomed, and so it proved to be; for the governor hearing that
we were prisoners up the country, had sent messengers offering the old king a handsome present
for our liberation. I afterwards found out that the price paid in goods amounted to about fifty-six
shillings a-head. The governor received us kindly, clothed us, and sent us down to the ship,
which was with a full cargo in the road, and intending to sail the next day, and we were received
and welcomed by our messmates as men risen from the dead.

We sailed two days afterwards, and had a fortunate voyage home to Liverpool.

CHAPTER VIII.

    The Liverpool Ladies are very civil to me--I am admitted
    into good Society--Introduced to Captain Levee--Again
    sail to Senegal--Overhear a Conspiracy to seize the Ship
    by the Crew of a Slaver, but am enabled to defeat it--Am
    thanked and rewarded by the Owner--Take a Trip to London
    with Captain Levee--Stopped by Highwaymen on the
    Road--Put up at a Tavern--Dissipated Town Life--Remove
    to a genteel Boarding-House--Meet with a Government
    Spy--Return to Liverpool.

As the captain reported me to be a very attentive and good officer, although I was then but
twenty-three years of age, and as I had been previously on good terms and useful to the owner,
I was kindly received by him, and paid much more attention to, than my situation on board might
warrant. My captivity among the Negroes, and the narrative I gave of my adventures, were also
a source of much interest. I was at first questioned by the gentlemen of Liverpool, and afterwards
one of the merchant's ladies, who had heard something of my adventures, and found out that
I was a young and personable man, with better manners than are usually to be found before the
mast, invited me one evening to a tea-party, that I might amuse her friends with my adventures.
They were most curious about the Negro queen, Whyna, inquiring into every particular as to
her personal appearance and dress, and trying to find out, as women always do, if there was
any thing of an intrigue between us. They shook their little fingers at me, when I solemnly
declared that there was not, and one or two of them cajoled me aside to obtain my acknowledgment
of what they really believed to be the truth, although I would not confess it.

When they had tired themselves with asking questions about the Negro queen, they then began
to ask about myself, and how it happened I was not such a bear, and coarse in my manners and
address, as the other seamen. To this I could give no other reply but that I had been educated
when a child. They would fain know who were my father and mother, and in what station of life
it had pleased God to place them; but I hardly need say, my dear Madam, to you who are so well
acquainted with my birth and parentage, that I would not disgrace my family by acknowledging
that one of their sons was in a situation so unworthy; not that I thought at that time, nor
do I think now, that I was so much to blame in preferring independence in a humble position,
to the life that induced me to take the step which I did; but as I could not state who my family
were without also stating why I had quitted them, I preserved silence, as I did not think that
I had any right to communicate family secrets to strangers. The consequences of my first introduction
to genteel society were very agreeable; I received many more invitations from the company assembled,
notwithstanding that my sailor's attire but ill corresponded with the powdered wigs and silk
waistcoats of the gentlemen, or the hoops and furbelows of satin which set off the charms of
the ladies.

At first I did not care so much, but as I grew more at my ease, I felt ashamed of my dress,
and the more so as the young foplings would put their glasses to their eyes, and look at me
as if I were a monster. But supported as I was by the fair sex, I cared little for them. The
ladies vowed that I was charming, and paid me much courtesy; indeed my vanity more than once
made me suspect that I was something more than a mere favourite with one or two of them, one
especially, a buxom young person, and very coquettish, who told me, as we were looking out
of the bay window of the withdrawing-room, that since I could be so secret with respect to
what took place between the Negress queen and myself, I must be sure to command the good-will
and favour of the ladies, who always admired discretion in so young and so handsome a man.
But I was not to be seduced by this flattery, for somehow or another I had ever before me the
French lady, and her conduct to me; and I had almost a dislike, or I should rather say, I had
imbibed an indifference for the sex.

This admission into good society did, however, have one effect upon me; it made me more particular
in my dress, and all my wages were employed in the decoration of my person. At that time you
may recollect, Madam, there were but two styles of dress among the seamen; one was that worn
by those who sailed in the northern seas, and the other by those who navigated in the tropical
countries, both suitable to the climates. Oh, how different are today those lucky parents their children
gather around the table tonight, skill, and they praise their good deeds to cheer! What joy shone in
their eyes, and what hope seemed to spring from the present-! If you can take for themselves
but no hope? Might you have already an old man? Is not it enough to view the default, now that
is not over till the evening come? No, your age, it is not foolish even to think of the outdoors
with your goods you will acquire a good wife and make happy, and do you have children in your home,
you will bear fruit later this greatest pleasure to give, rather than often those who from the sky get
early to burden and confusion redound that. "When he soliloquy his intention to become attached
had this through, he called two ship's apprentice himself and opened
them his thoughts.

You, the usual were in all cases to be ready and willing, were missing this time and not rushed to town after
the youngest and most beautiful girls to inquire into the, for her
patron, as he longed for that product, once should also find the best
and possess.

He celebrated as little as his emissary. He went and asked him and heard and soon found what he
was looking for in a woman, the most beautiful of the whole city to be called deserved the this
moment, approximately sixteen years old, well formed and well behaved,
the form and manner showed the most pleasant and most promised.

After
a short negotiation, through which state both during his lifetime as after the death of the man
of Schoenen was assured the most favorable, it took the marriage with great pomp and joy , and
from that day trader did feel, our first in the actual possession and enjoyment of his riches.
Now he related with pleasure the beautiful and rich fabrics in apparel
of the beautiful body that the jewels shone quite different to the
chest and in the hair of his lover than once in Schmuckkaestchen,
and the rings were given an infinite value of the hand, which she
wore.

He did not feel alone, so rich, but richer than before, while his cargo through sympathy and application
seemed to increase. In this way, lived the couple for almost a year in the biggest satisfaction,
and he seemed to love his wandering life against the feeling of domestic Blessed to have completely
reversed and a mothods. But old habits lies as easily as not, and a direction that we early taken,
can probably time distracted some, but all are interrupted never. This merchant also had our
times when he others embark or happy the port to return to saw again stirrings of his old passion
felt that, yes, he had in his house to himself the side of his wife
sometimes felt uneasiness and discontent.

 We made good traffic on the coast as we ran down it, receiving ivory, gold-dust,
and wax, in exchange for our printed cottons and hardware. After being six weeks on the coast,
we put into Senegal to dispose of the remainder of our cargo; which we soon did to the governor,
who gave us a fair exchange, although by no means so profitable a barter as what we had made
on the coast; but that we did not expect for what might be called the refuse of our cargo.
The captain was much pleased, as he knew the owner would be satisfied with him, and, moreover,
he had himself a venture in the cargo; and we had just received the remainder of the ivory
from the governor's stores, and had only to get on board a sufficiency of provisions and water
for our homeward voyage, when a circumstance took place which I must now relate.

Our crew consisted of the captain, and myself, as first mate, the second mate, and twelve seamen,
four of which were those who had been taken prisoners with me, and had been released, as I
have related, in our previous voyage. These four men were very much attached to me, I believe
chiefly from my kindness to them when I was a slave to the queen Whyna, as I always procured
for them every thing which I could, and, through the exertions of my mistress, had them plentifully
supplied with provisions from the king's table. The second mate and other eight men we had
shipped at Liverpool. They were fine, stout fellows, but appeared to be loose characters, but
that we did not discover till after we had sailed. There was anchored with us at Senegal a
low black brig, employed in the slave-trade, which had made the bay at the same time that we
did; and to their great surprise--for she was considered a very fast sailer--she was beaten
at all points by our ship, which was considered the fastest vessel out of Liverpool. The crew
of the slaver were numerous, and as bloodthirsty a set of looking fellows as ever I fell in
with. Their boat was continually alongside of our vessel, and I perceived that their visits
were made to the eight men whom we had shipped at Liverpool, and that they did not appear inclined
to be at all intimate with the rest of the crew. This roused my suspicions, although I said
nothing; but I watched them very closely. One forenoon, as I was standing at the foot of the
companion-ladder, concealed by the booby-hatch from the sight of those on deck, I heard our
men talking over the side, and at last, as I remained concealed, that I might overhear the
conversation, one of the slaver's men from the boat said, "To-night, at eight o'clock, we will
come to arrange the whole business." The boat then shoved off, and pulled for the brig.

Now, it was the custom of the captain to go onshore every evening to drink sangaree and smoke
with the governor, and very often I went with him, leaving the ship in charge of the second
mate. In order that it be bleating his true form by not betray, he tied
to the animal's mouth.

Well,
he moved to the fairs and markets and had great popularity, for such a tame and peaceful tiger no one
had yet seen.

Since the traffic in his Bude, from early morning to late evening took
no end, but he wanted to break his income does not diminish by even
one, he found no time or opportunity calf to feed the poor or to water,
so basically the same thing a few days went to. Since he bought another
calf, and so on, until he sacrificed his greed calves had ten good.

But the gods of sleep, and not avenge any wrong that their creations will be added. One day the man was
sick, he lost his voice and only a pitiful bleating was heard, if he wanted to speak. Then
he was seized by the madness, and he tore his clothes off body enveloped
with the tiger skin and hurried into comic jumps and with constant
bleating on the road.

Here he served the youth to ridicule him pelted with stones and rubbish.
He drove it for three days, he could neither eat, drink and finally
died a miserable death.

That was the punishment of the gods for his cruelty to animals. [Note 1: The current Tokyo.] [Decoration]
Rai-taro [1]. Raiden, and Rai-jin, the god of thunder, enjoys in Japan great reverence, but
he is very afraid that if he accompanied by Futen, the Storm Spirit, occurs, for then rages and
howls he in the mountains and the canyons, then crashes it in the
woods and the sun is hiding from the angry army of the storm and thunder
spirits.

Above all storms, high up in the air, surrounded by black clouds,
Futen up, a horrible monster with hairy clawed hands and feet.

Two big long tusks protrude from its mouth, a flat nose, blunt, short
ears and gleaming eyes treacherous complete the horrifying figure
of this monster.

This follows him in shape and look the same, Raiden, who drums with
the lead five, on which he proposes with a big club, he throws in
between the fiery thunder cat, wherever it falls mischief.

With their glowing claws shattered mountains and lights and houses
to trees, scorched people and cattle to death, or draws it for life.

Futen carries across his shoulders a sack, which has four holes and put
the winch in. Does he sack closed the then calm reigns on earth,
but the skipper of the sea to ask for him but the sack one to open
a little small, that they may well drive have. Power Futen a hole entirely,
then breaking storm out a woe , three times woe but when he opens
the bag at two points, because then a hurricane comes, therefore,
of all his field Upcoming destroyed.

Such a storm is called in Japan »Tai-fu" - big wind - hurricane. - And now I want those two monsters
once a piece of talk about, which can be seen from that they are not always as malevolent fellows,
as they seem. High up on the northwest coast of Japan, in the northeast of Lake Biwa, rises
the eternal white main one of the highest mountains of Japan up proudly. It is the Hakusan [2],
"Shirayama" mentioned. At the foot of this mountain dwelt long ago a poor peasant named Bimbo [3],
so he wore the right name. This farmer had his life plagued hard, it was but to prosperity or carefree
life never bring, for his small farm was located high in a corner of the mountain, and the harvest
depended solely weather on the, as he other water supply shortage each. With great difficulty he had
his wife from year to year out of the box, ordered, but the rich harvest was made often. [image] Also
that year, as this story begins, he had great concern, because day after day, sent the sun's
consuming rays on the paddy Bimbo of the poor.

No rain giving clouds was saving face, not a breath of wind stirred, and the not yet mature
rice ears hung down limply. Bimbo and his wife sighed heavily and anxious and often wondered why
the sky is angry with you. Everything from disaster to strike them. Even the highest happiness of
man, the greatest blessing of the gods, was a child, yet still denied
them, although they had so fervently asked often.
 Of course we must have been immediately
overpowered.

That the slavers intended to take possession of their own vessel before they took ours, I had
no doubt. It is true that we outsailed them when we had a breeze, but the bay was usually becalmed,
and it was not till a vessel had got well into the offing that she obtained a breeze, and there
was no doubt but that they would take the opportunity of boarding us when we were moving slowly
through the water, and a boat might easily come up with us. The slaver had stated his intention
of sailing immediately to procure her cargo elsewhere, and if she got under weigh at the same
time that we did, no suspicion would be created. To apply for protection to the governor would
be useless--he could not protect us after we were clear of the bay. Indeed, if it were known
that we had so done, it would probably only precipitate the affair, and we should be taken
possession of while at anchor, for the shot from the fort would hardly reach us. It was, therefore,
only by stratagem that we could escape from the clutches of these miscreants. Again, allowing
that we were to get clear of the slavers, we were still in an awkward position, for, supposing
the captain to be of any use, we should still only be six men against nine, and we might be
overpowered by our own crew, who were determined and powerful men.

All night I lay on my bed reflecting upon what ought to be done, and at last I made up my mind.

The next morning I went on deck, complaining very much, but stating that the fever had left
me. The long-boat was sent on shore for more water, and I took care that the second mate and
eight men should be those selected for the service. As soon as they had shoved off, I called
the other four men on the forecastle, and told them what I had overheard. They were very much
astonished, for they had had no idea that there was any thing of the kind going forward. I
imparted to them all my plans, and they agreed to support me in every thing--indeed, they were
all brave men, and would have, if I had acceded to it, attempted to master and overpower the
second mate and the others, and make sail in the night; but this I would not permit, as there
was a great risk. They perfectly agreed with me that it was no use acquainting the captain,
and that all we had to do was to get rid of these men, and carry the vessel home how we could.
How that was to be done was the point at issue. One thing was certain, that it was necessary
to leave the bay that night, or it would be too late. Fortunately, there was always a light
breeze during the night, and the nights were dark, for there was no moon till three o'clock
in the morning, by which time we could have gained the offing, and then we might laugh at the
slaver, as we were lighter in our heels. The boat came off with the water about noon, and the
men went to dinner. The captain had agreed to dine with the governor, and I had been asked
to accompany him. It was to be our farewell dinner, as we were to sail the next morning. I
had been cogitating a long while to find out how to get rid of these fellows, when at last
I determined that I would go on shore with the captain, and propose a plan to the governor.
His knowledge of what was about to be attempted could do no harm, and I thought he would help
us; so I went into the boat, and when we landed I told the men what I intended to do. As soon
as I arrived at the governor's, I took an opportunity, while the captain was reading a book,
to request a few moments' conversation, and I then informed the governor of the conspiracy
which was afloat, and when I had so done, I pointed out to him the propriety of saying nothing
to the captain until all was safe, and proposed my plan to him, which he immediately acceded
to. When he returned to where the captain was still reading, he told him that he had a quantity
of gold-dust and other valuables, which he wished to send to England by his ship; but that
he did not wish to do it openly, as it was supposed that he did not traffic, and that if the
captain would send his long-boat on shore after dark, he would send all the articles on board,
with instructions to whom they were to be consigned on our arrival. The captain of course consented.
We bade the governor farewell about half an hour before dark, and returned on board. After
I had been a few minutes on deck, I sent for the second mate, and told him as a secret what
the governor had proposed to do, and that he would be required to land after dark for the goods,
telling him that there was a very large quantity of gold-dust, and that he must be very careful.
I knew that this intelligence would please him, as it would add to their plunder when they
seized the vessel; and I told him that as we sailed at daylight, he must lose no time, but
be on board again as soon as he could, that we might hoist in the long-boat. About eight o'clock
in the evening, the boat, with him and the eight men, went on shore. The governor had promised
to detain them, and ply them with liquor, till we had time to get safe off. As soon as they
were out of sight and hearing, we prepared every thing for getting under weigh. The captain
had gone to his cabin, but was not in bed. I went down to him, and told him I should remain
up till the boat returned, and see that all was right; and that in the mean time I would get
every thing ready for weighing the next morning, and that he might just as well go to bed now,
and I would call him to relieve me at daylight. To this arrangement he consented; and in half
an hour I perceived that his candle was out, and that he had retired. Being now so dark that
we could not perceive the slaver, which lay about three cables' length from us, it was fairly
to be argued that she could not see us; I therefore went forward and slipped the cable without
noise, and sent men up aloft to loose the sails. There was a light breeze, sufficient to carry
us about two knots through the water, and we knew that it would rather increase than diminish.
In half an hour, weak-handed as we were, we were under sail, every thing being done without
a word being spoken, and with the utmost precaution. You may imagine how rejoiced we all were
when we found that we had manoeuvred so well; notwithstanding, we kept a sharp look-out, to
see if the slaver had perceived our motions, and had followed us; and the fear of such being
the case kept us under alarm till near daylight, when the breeze blew strong, and we felt that
we had nothing more to dread. As the day broke, we found that we were four or five leagues
from the anchorage, and could not see the lower masts of the slaver, which still remained where
we had left her.

Satisfied that we were secure, I then went down to the captain, and, as he lay in bed, made
him acquainted with all that had passed. He appeared as if awakened from a dream, rose without
making any reply, and hastened on deck. When he found out that we were under weigh, and so
far from the land, he exclaimed:

"It must all be true; but how shall we be able to take the ship home with so few hands?"

I replied, that I had no fears on that score, and that I would answer for bringing the vessel
safe to Liverpool.

"But," he said at last, "how is it that I was not informed of all this? I might have made some
arrangements with the men."

"Yes, Sir," I replied, "but if you had attempted to do so, the vessel would have been taken
immediately."

"But why was I not acquainted with it, I want to know?" he said again.

I had by this time made up my mind to the answer I should give him; so I said: "Because it
would have placed a serious responsibility on your shoulders if, as captain of this vessel,
you had sailed to England with such a valuable cargo and so few hands. The governor and I,
therefore, thought it better that you should not be placed in such an awkward position, and
therefore we considered it right not to say a word to you about it. Now, if any thing goes
wrong, it will be my fault, and not yours, and the owner cannot blame you." When I had said
this, the captain was silent for a minute or two, and then said:

"Well, I believe it is all for the best, and I thank you and the governor too."

Having got over this little difficulty, I did not care. We made all sail, and steered homewards,
and, after a rapid passage, during which we were on deck day and night, we arrived, very much
fatigued, at Liverpool. Of course the captain communicated what had occurred to the owner,
who immediately sent for me, and having heard my version of the story, expressed his acknowledgment
for the preservation of the vessel; and to prove his sincerity, he presented me with fifty
guineas for myself, and ten for each of the men. The cargo was soon landed, and I was again
at liberty. I found Captain Levee in port; he had just returned from another cruise, and had
taken a rich prize. He met me with the same cordiality as before; and having asked me for a
recital of what had occurred at Senegal, of which he had heard something from the owner, as
soon as I had finished, he said:

"You are a lad after my own heart, and I wish we were sailing together. I want a first-lieutenant
like you, and if you will go with me, say the word, and it will be hard but I will have you."

I replied that I was not very anxious to be in a privateer again; and this brought on a discourse
upon what occurred when I was in the Revenge with Captain Weatherall.

"Well," he said at last, "all this makes me more anxious to have you. I like fair fighting,
and hate buccaneering like yourself; however, we will talk of it another time. I am about to
start for London. What do you say, will you join me, and we will have some sport? With plenty
of money, you may do any thing in London."

"Yes," I replied, "but I have not plenty of money."

"That shall make no difference; money is of no use but to spend it, that I know of," replied
Captain Levee. "I have plenty for both of us, and my purse is at your service; help yourself
as you please, without counting, for I shall be your enemy if you offer to return it. That's
settled; the horses are all ready, and we will start on Wednesday. How will you dress? I think
it might be better to alter your costume, now you are going to London. You'll make a pretty
fellow, dress how you will."

"Before I give you an answer to all your kind proposals, I must speak to the owner, Captain Levee."

"Of course, you must; shall we go there now?"

"Willingly," I replied. And we accordingly set off.

Captain Levee introduced the subject as soon as we arrived at the counting-house, stating that
he wanted me to be first-lieutenant of the privateer, and that I was going to London with him,
if he had no objection.

"As for going to London with you for five or six weeks, Captain Levee, there can be no objection
to that," replied the owner; "but as for being your first-lieutenant, that is another question.
I have a vessel now fitting out, and intended to offer the command of it to Mr. Elrington.
I do so now at once, and he must decide whether he prefers being under your orders to commanding
a vessel of his own."

"I will decide that for him," replied Captain Levee. "He must command his own vessel; it would
be no friendship on my part to stand in the way of his advancement. I only hope, if she is
a privateer, that we may cruise together."

"I cannot reply to that latter question," replied the owner. "Her destination is uncertain;
but the command of her is now offered to Mr. Elrington, if he will accept of it, before his
trip to the metropolis."

I replied that I should with pleasure, and returned the owner many thanks for his kindness;
and, after a few minutes' more conversation, we look our leave.

"Now I should advise you," said Captain Levee, as we walked towards his lodgings, "to dress
as a captain of a vessel of war, much in the style that I do. You are a captain, and have a
right so to do. Come with me, and let me fit you out."

I agreed with Captain Levee that I could not do better; so we went and ordered my suits of
clothes, and purchased the other articles which I required. Captain Levee would have paid for
them, but I had money sufficient, and would not permit him; indeed with my pay and present
of fifty guineas I had upwards of seventy guineas in my purse, and did not disburse more than
fifty in my accoutrements, although my pistols and hanger were very handsome.

We did not start until three days after the time proposed, when I found at daylight two stout
well-bred horses at the door; one for Captain Levee, and the other for me. We were attended
by two serving-men belonging to the crew of the privateer commanded by Captain Levee--powerful,
fierce-looking, and determined men, armed to the teeth, and mounted upon strong jades. One
carried the valise of Captain Levee, which was heavy with gold. The other had charge of mine,
which was much lighter, as you may suppose. We travelled for three days without any interruption,
making about thirty miles a-day, and stopping at the hostelries to sleep every night. On the
fourth day we had a slight affair, for as we were mounting a hill towards the evening, we found
our passage barred by five fellows with crape masks, who told us to stand and deliver.

"We will," replied Captain Levee, firing his pistol, and reining up his horse at the same time.
The ball struck the man, who fell back on the crupper, while the others rushed forward. My
pistols were all ready, and I fired at the one who spurred his horse upon me, but the horse
rearing up saved his master, the ball passing through the head of the animal, who fell dead,
holding his rider a prisoner by the thigh, which was underneath his body. Our two men had come
forward and ranged alongside of us at the first attack, but now that two had fallen, the others
finding themselves in a minority, after exchanging shots, turned their horses' heads and galloped
away. We would have pursued them, but Captain Levee said it was better not, as there might
be more of the gang near, and by pursuing them we might separate and be cut off in detail.

"What shall we do with these fellows?" asked our men of Captain Levee.

"Leave them to get off how they can," replied Captain Levee. "I will not be stopped on my journey
by such a matter as this. I dare say they don't deserve hanging more than half the people we
meet. Let us push on and get into quarters for the night. After all, Mr. Elrington," said Captain
Levee to me, as we were setting off, "it's only a little land privateering, and we must not
be too hard upon them."

I confess, Madam, when I recalled all that I had witnessed on board of the Revenge, that I
agreed with Captain Levee, that these highwaymen were not worse than ourselves.

No other adventure occurred during our journey, and when we arrived in London we directed our
horses' steps to a fashionable tavern in St. Paul's, and took possession of apartments, and
as Captain Levee was well known, we were cordially greeted and well attended. The tavern was
in great repute, and resorted to by all the wits and gay men of the day, and I soon found myself
on intimate terms with a numerous set of dashing blades, full of life and jollity, and spending
their money like princes; but it was a life of sad intemperance, and my head ached every morning
from the excess of the night before, and in our excursions in the evenings we were continually
in broils and disturbances, and many a broken head, nay, sometimes a severe wound, was given
and received. After the first fortnight, I felt weary of this continual dissipation, and as
I was dressing a sword-cut which Captain Levee had received in an affray, I one morning told
him so.

"I agree with you," he replied, "that it is all very foolish and discreditable, but if we live
with the gay and pretty fellows, we must do as they do. Besides, how could I get rid of my
money, which burns in my pocket, if I did not spend as much in one day as would suffice for
three weeks?"

"Still I would rather dress a wound gained in an honourable contest with the enemy than one
received in a night brawl, and I would rather see you commanding your men in action than reeling
with other drunkards in search of a quarrel in the streets."

"I feel that it is beneath me, and I'm sure that it's beneath you. You are a Mentor without
a beard," replied Captain Levee. "But still it requires no beard to discover that I have made
an ass of myself. Now, what do you say, shall we take lodgings and live more reputably, for
while in this tavern we never shall be able to do so?"

"I should prefer it, to tell you the honest truth," I replied, "for I have no pleasure in our
present life."

"Be it so, then," he replied. "I will tell them that I take lodgings, that I may be near to
a fair lady. That will be a good and sufficient excuse."

The next day we secured lodgings to our satisfaction, and removed into them, leaving our horses
and men at the tavern. We boarded with the family, and as there were others who did the same,
we had a very pleasant society, especially as there were many of the other sex among the boarders.
The first day that we sat down to dinner, I found myself by the side of a young man of pleasing
manners, although with much of the coxcomb in his apparel. His dress was very gay and very
expensive, and he wore a diamond-hilted sword and diamond buckles--at least so they appeared
to me, as I was not sufficient connoisseur to distinguish the brilliant from the paste. He
was very affable and talkative, and before dinner was over gave me the history of many of the
people present.

"Who is the dame in the blue stomacher?" I inquired.

"You mean the prettiest of the two, I suppose," he replied, "that one with the patches under
the eye? She is a widow, having just buried an old man of sixty, to whom she was sacrificed
by her mother. But although the old fellow was as rich as a Jew, he found such fault with the
lady's conduct that he left all his money away from her. This is not generally known, and she
takes care to conceal it, for she is anxious to make another match, and she will succeed if
her funds, which are not very great, enable her to carry on the game a little longer. I was
nearly taken in myself, but an intimacy with her cousin, who hates her, gave me a knowledge
of the truth. She still keeps her carriage, and appears to be rolling in wealth, but she has
sold her diamonds and wears paste. And that plain young person on the other side of her has
money, and knows the value of it. She requires rent-roll for rent-roll, and instead of referring
you to her father and mother, the little minx refers you to her lawyer and man of business.
Ugly as she is, I would have sacrificed myself, but she treated me in that way, and upon my
soul I was not very sorry for it, for she is dear at any price, and I have since rejoiced at
my want of success."

"Who is that elderly gentleman with such snow-white hair?" I inquired.

"That," replied my companion, "nobody exactly knows, but I have my idea. I think," said he,
lowering his voice to a whisper, "that he is a Catholic priest, or a Jesuit, perhaps, and a
partisan of the house of Stuart. I have my reasons for supposing so, and this I am sure of,
which is, that he is closely watched by the emissaries of government."

You may remember, Madam, how at that time the country was disturbed by the landing of the Pretender
in the summer of the year before, and the great successes which he had met with, and that the
Duke of Cumberland had returned from the army in the Low Countries, and had marched to Scotland.

"Has there been any intelligence from Scotland relative to the movements of the armies?" I
inquired.

"We have heard that the Pretender had abandoned the siege of Fort William, but nothing more;
and how far the report is true, it is hard to say. You military men must naturally have a war
one way or the other," said my companion, in a careless manner.

"As to the fighting part of the question," I replied, "I should feel it a matter of great indifference
which side I fought for, as the claim of both parties is a matter of mere opinion."

"Indeed," he said; "and what may be your opinion?"

"I have none. I think the claims of both parties equal. The house of Stuart lost the throne
of England on account of its religion--that of Hanover has been called to the throne for the
same cause. The adherents of both are numerous at the present moment; and it does not follow
because the house of Hanover has the strongest party, that the house of Stuart should not uphold
its cause while there is a chance of success."

"That is true; but if you were to be obliged to take one side or the other, which would it
be by preference?"

"Certainly I would support the Protestant religion in preference to the Catholic. I am a Protestant,
and that is reason enough."

"I agree with you," replied my companion. "Is your brave friend of the same opinion?"

"I really never put the question to him, but I think I may safely answer that he is."

It was fortunate, Madam, that I replied as I did, for I afterwards discovered that this precious
gossiping young man, with his rings and ribbons, was no other than a government spy, on the
look-out for malcontents. Certainly his disguise was good, for I never should have imagined
it from his foppish exterior and mincing manners.

We passed our time much more to my satisfaction now than we did before, escorting the ladies
to the theatre and to Ranelagh, and the freedom with which Captain Levee (and I may say I also)
spent his money, soon gave us a passport to good society. About a fortnight afterwards, the
news arrived of the battle of Culloden, and great rejoicings were made. My foppish friend remarked
to me:--

"Yes, now that the hopes of the Pretender are blasted, and the Hanoverian succession secured,
there are plenty who pretend to rejoice, and be excessively loyal, who, if the truth were known,
ought to be quartered as traitors."

And I must observe, that the day before the news of the battle, the old gentleman with snow-white
hair was arrested and sent to the Tower, and he afterwards suffered for high treason.

But letters from the owner, saying that the presence of both of us was immediately required,
broke off this pleasant London party. Indeed, the bag of gold was running very low, and this,
combined with the owner's letter, occasioned our breaking up three days afterwards. We took
leave of the company at the lodgings, and there was a tender parting with one or two buxom
young women; after which we again mounted our steeds and set off for Liverpool, where we arrived
without any adventure worthy of narration. 

They are found soon stopped everywhere, more so, as each new generation
of new and previous requests and makes the parents against the children
only want to grant the most part, what they themselves enjoyed in earlier
times, because everyone still easier to live moderately and consented.
Ferdinand grew up with the unpleasant sensation that he often lacked
what he saw to his playmates.

    
    
    He wanted to dress in a certain liberality of life and
    behavior behind anyone fall in, he wanted his father to
    be similar, whose example he before his eyes watched every
    day, and the doubly pattern image appeared as: as a father
    for the son habitually a favorable Prejudice cherishes, and then again
as the boy saw that the man in this way a fun and pleasurable life
leaded one and everyone appreciated it and was loved. Ferdinand had
about this, how easily can imagine, some controversy with the mother,
the father since he filed the skirts do not grudge, but is itself
always wanted to be in fashion.

This, he grew up, and his debts grew ever him before, so that at last, since he was eighteen
years old, quite apart relationship with his state had to feel themselves. debts he had not been made,
because his mother had him in front of the greatest horror instilled his trust sought to maintain and
in several cases the utmost done to fulfill his wishes or to tear
it from embarrassments small.

Unfortunately, had it in just the time when as a young man he now saw more people in exterior,
where he was a tendency to a very nice girl, interwoven into larger
society, not just another equivalent, but others to excel and to
please desired by, in their household crowded than ever, so instead
how else to satisfy his demands, began it, his reason, his good heart,
his love for her to claim, and set him by him, although convinced,
but not vera modified release really in despair.

He could, without losing everything to what he so fond of his life was when, not Change customer
conditions, the where he was. From the first youth he was that state contrary, he was with everything
surrounded him, grown together, and he could fiber of its compounds, societies, walks and parties
of pleasure tearing not, without at the same time an old school friend, a playmate, a new and
honorable acquaintance and, worst was to hurt his love. How much and
worth it his passion was, we understand easily when we find out that
it's sensuality, his mind, his vanity and his lively hopes flattered
at the same time.

One of the nicest, most pleasant and richest girl of the city gave
him, at least for the moment, in preference to its many rival claimants.

It permitted him, with the service that you dedicated it to boast as it were, and they seemed alternately the
chains proud of to be, they had each created. Now it was his duty to follow her everywhere, money in
their service to use and time and way to point to any such value to him her affection and how
vital it is their property.

This approach and this tendency was Ferdinanda more effort than it would be under other circumstances
of course have been. She was a very strange aunt absent parents have been entrusted to her actually,
and it required many Arts and strange institutions to Ottilie, this ornament of the society to bring
into society.

Ferdinand exhausted in inventions, for her to gain the pleasures they enjoyed and which they
all did was to know. And they increase at the same moments in a beloved and revered mother of
all other obligations to be asked this so much, from this page no
help see animated horror to feel such a debt, the state not long
would have eked his well, everyone wealthy and generous considered
to be for it to and from and urgent need of the money to experience
the daily, was certainly one of the most embarrassing situations,
in which a young mind are agitated by passions can.

Some ideas to him only slightly ahead of the soul passed earlier, he was now fixed, certain thoughts,
which otherwise only moments troubled him, hovered longer before
his mind, and some peevish were persistent and bitter feelings.

Had he otherwise regarded his father as his model, he envied him now as
his rival. Of all the things wished the son, was in possession of
that, everything, worÃ this frightened, that was easy. And it was
not from the necessity of speech, but from what would have deprived
each can.

As for the son thought that the father should also probably sometimes do without, to let him enjoy.
The father, however, was quite a different attitude; He was one of
those people who allow themselves much and are therefore in the case,
those who depend on them fail too.

He had something certain exposed to the son and demanded an exact account, even a regular statement
from him about it. Nothing sharpens the eye of the people more than if you limit him. That is
why women are quite smarter than the men, and no one is subordinate more carefully than the
commanding, without at the same time his example preceded by. Thus
was son to all actions of his father's attention which, especially on
such monetary issues involved. He listened to more accurate when he heard
the father had lost or won the game, he judged it more stringent,
if that is allowed a little expensive willful.

"Is not it strange," he said to himself, "that parents, while they enjoyment of all kinds with
overfilling by a fortune just to arbitrariness, which the accident has
given them to use children just at the time by any reasonable enjoyment exclude
her, as young people at the holder shall be: and with what right
they do and how they have come to this right? want the chance to decide
alone, and may be the right one, where the random acts? the grandfather
still lived, the grandson of his children was his, I would fare much
better: he would I am missing necessities can not, for us is not necessarily
what we need in acute deficit, to which we are born and brought up?

The grandfather would not let me starve, so he wasted little father would admit of. Had he had lived longer
he would have seen it clear that his grandson is also worth enjoying, it
would have perhaps the will my past luck held in the.

Even I have heard that the grandfather of premature death was just as it will set up his last thought,
and shall have perhaps only chance I had previously withdrawn from
my share of a fortune which I, if my father continues to operate so
well on even more to lose.

"With these and other quibbles over ownership and right about the question of whether a law or an
institution to which one voice is not given its follow to need, and
to what extent it is permitted to man, quiet of the civic laws derogate,
he often deals in his lonely, fretful hours, if he made any deficiency
ready money a pleasure party or another good company turn out of had
to.

For even he had little things of value, which he wasted possessed, and his usual pocket money was
sufficient no means. His mind locked, and can say that it in this moments, his mother did
not, could not help him, and hated his father, who views him everywhere in his way was after. At the
very time he made a discovery which excited his indignation still
more.

He noted that his father alone is not good, but also a messy housekeeper was not. Because he often
took out his desk in the velocity of money, without being recorded, and afterwards began counting
again, and sometimes to be expected, and seemed vexed that the sums
do not coincide with the cashier wanted.

The son made that remark several times, and to more painful was it to him if he just at the time, because
the father only really in the money to reach in, a decided shortage
could feel.

This Gemuetsstimmung met a strange coincidence that his lovely occasion, one to do the one, which he
only a dark and indecisive impulse was felt.

His father gave him the order to look through a box of old letters and rearrange
them. One Sunday, as he was alone, he carried him through the room where
the desk stood, the father of the fund contained. The box was heavy, he
had taken the wrong moment and was about to sell one or a rather lean.
Inability to keep him, he violently pushed to the corner of the desk,
and the top of it flew open.

He saw all the roles in the are themselves, to which only he had sometimes
hineingeschielt, put down his box and took without thinking and to
consider the role of a page away, where his father habitually clinging
simply take his spending money to arbitrary seemed.

It expresses the desk again and tried to push the side: the lid flew up every time and it was
as good as if he had the desks would have the keys. With vehemence he tried now every perfect vehicle,
which he had so far have to do without. He was diligent about his Schoene, all he did and
undertook, was passionate, his vivacity and grace had a fierce, almost savage creature turned
in, for him not amiss let, but no one beneficent was. What is the spark
of fire on a geladnes rifle, which is the opportunity to addiction,
and any inclination that we our conscience meet against, forces us
to an excess of physical strength applied by, and we act again as
a wild man, and it will be difficult, effort to hide these external.

The more he protested his inner feelings, the more accumulated Ferdinand
arguments successive artificial, and the more daring and freedom, he
seemed to act, the more he himself from one side did feel bound.

On that day were all kinds of fashion jewels become worthless. Ottilie loved to adorn themselves,
and he was looking for a way to give her her, without even Ottilie actually knew where the presents
came. The presumption of an old uncle was thrown , and Ferdinand was content
in duplicate by him Schoene their satisfaction about their suspicions
of his uncle at the same time to recognize and gifts were his.

But this and her pleasure to make, he still had his father's desk
Sc several times, and he did it with less care than the father and several
times implanted money out had to write without it. Soon after this Ottilie
their parents for a few months to go away. The young people are extremly
sad, because they were divorced, and their separation was a fact even more
important. Ottilie learned by accident that the gifts came from Ferdinanda,
she put him to talk about it, and when he confessed, she seemed very
to be peevish.

She insisted that he should take them back them, and this suggestion made him the most bitter
pain.

He explained that he can not and will not live without, and he asked
her tendency to get her to him, and urged them him not to withhold their
hand as soon as he would be home-furnishings and supplies. She loved
him, she was touched, she said to him what he wanted, and in this
lucky moment she sealed her promise with the most lively and embraces
a thousand warm kisses.

After their departure, Ferdinand seemed very alone. The companies in which he used to see them
excited, it no longer, by missing. He attended only by habit Lustoerter both friends, and only
with reluctance that he took a few more into the coffers of the father
in order to meet expenses, which forced him no passion. He was often
alone, and the good soul seemed to gain the upper hand. He surprised himself
quiet reflection, as those about right and possession, about demanding
to another's, and how the sections might all, in hot and cold on such
an oblique way I perform and sophistry in this tort can gloss over
an over .

He was down significantly and after that only faith and belief, the
estimable people do that really good fees, the living to shame all
the laws, either by another or may use its advantage to circumvent
them.

Meanwhile, before a true and good terms with him were completely clear and ruling makes more decisions, he
still succumbed to temptation a few times, prohibited source in urgent
cases to draw from the.

He never did it without reluctance, and only as an evil spirit from the hair attracted to . At last he
took courage and made the decision, all things, the act is impossible to make before and of the
condition of the palace to inform his father. He began to wise and carried the box with the letters now
ordered in the presence of his father across the room, committed
with intent to awkwardness, with the box against the desk to meet,
and how surprised his father when he saw ascend the cover!

They examined both the lock and found that the closure Shaken time
worn through and the tapes were changeable.

Immediately fixing things was, and Ferdinand had in a long time no happier moment than when
he has money in such good keeping saw this. But this was it is not enough.
So he decided at once, the sum he had stolen his father and he still
did well to gather again, and she offered him a way or another to
deliver to.

He now began to live most carefully and from his pocket money, which was possible only save to.
To be sure, the little that could hold it here, against what else
he had wasted, however, seemed to sum already great, because it was
a beginning, repair his wrong.

And certainly is a vast difference between the last dollars, the it borrows,
and between the first, the one paid off.

Before long he was on this good path, when the father decided to send
him in trade shops. He should make themselves familiar with a distant
factory establishment. intention, in an area where the first hand
the needs and very cheap, even were one to build had been counting,
there to put a partner, the advantage which at present they begrudge
others had to win and even with money and credit Great to drive to
the hospital.

Ferdinand was the cause of close study in and pay a full account of
it. The father had him traveling money exposed, and it required to get on
with it; it was plentiful, and he had about it to not complain. Even on
his journey Ferdinand lived very sparingly, and figured ueberrechnete and found
that he third part of his travel money to spare the could, if he
continue any way limiting on.

He hoped for an opportunity now to get the rest by and by, and he found
them. Because the opportunity is an indifferent goddess, favoring
the good and the Boese. In the area, he should visit, he found everything
far more favorable than had been believed.

Everyone went away in the old routine handicraft.

Of newly discovered benefits they had no knowledge, or had made no
use of it. It turned moderate sum of money only, and was satisfied
with a moderate profit, and he soon saw that with some capital, with
advances, purchase of the first material in large, by the help of
machines capable foreman, a great and solid institution would make
can create with.

He felt the idea of this possible activity very collected. The beautiful area in which he envisioned
every moment of his beloved Ottilie let him wish that his father put him to this place, his new establishment,
and entrust it to the abundant and unexpected way, so would like
to equip.

It all looked with more attention because he already looked at everything
as its own. He had the first opportunity, his knowledge, his Geisteskraefte,
apply his ruling. The area as well as the belongings interested him to
the highest, they were Labsal and healing for his wounded heart,
for not without pain, could he remember the paternal house, where
he a kind of madness in such an act could commit to it now the biggest
crime seemed to be.

A friend of his house, a brave, but sickly man, the idea of such an institution, first in letters themselves
had given him was always to the side, showed him everything that made him famous with his ideas
and was happy when the young man to meet him, even forestalled. This
man led a very simple life, partly by inclination, partly because his
health demanded it so.

He had no children, a niece took care of him, which he had intended his fortune, which he and a brave
man wants to make in order with the assistance of a foreign capital
and that of fresh forces executed to see what he had but one term,
but what it its physical and economic circumstances withheld.

No sooner had he seen Ferdinanda when he seemed to be his man this, and hope grew his, as he so
much affection of the young people to the business and the area said.
He let niece his thoughts remember him, and this did not seem averse.

She was a young, well-formed, healthy, and every way gutgeartetes to girls. The care for her uncle's
household was always fast and doing business and concern for his
health, always soft and pleasing.

One could no more perfect person wish to wife. Ferdinand, the courtesy and the love of Ottilie's
mind had only looked good over the Landmaedchen away or would want if Ottilie as a wife in this region
would live his once, he has such a housekeeper and can add to housekeeper. He said the girl 'friendliness
and kindness of a very casual way, he became acquainted closer, and they appreciate, and he met
her soon with more respect, and they both put their uncle as his conduct after their wishes. Ferdinand
had now looked accurate and informed of everything. He had, with the aid of his uncle made
a plan and after his habitual ease no secret that he expects to execute the plan itself. He also
had many compliments said the niece, and each household happy praised, such carefully landlady
left up could be one. She and her uncle, therefore, believed that
he really had intentions, and were all the more pleasing to him. Not without
satisfaction Ferdinand had his investigations found that much of it
to the future hope to have this place alone, but rather that he is
now a competitive market close, like his father and reimburse the
stolen sum, therefore, this heavy burden at a time can rid of it.

He opened his friend the intention of his speculation, the extraordinary pleasure had about
it and it Possible Beihuelfe rendered all, yes, he wanted young friends all on credit, give
his, which did not accept, however, but a part of it once the excess
of the travel allowance paid by and promised to repay in due time
the other.

With what joy he and load goods let the pack was not pronounce, and
with what satisfaction he took his way back, can imagine.

For the
highest sensation that the person may have, is when he is one of the main error, even of a crime
by his own force collects and disengages. The good man, the remarkable deviation from the right
path before him without hinwandelt is like a quiet, praiseworthy citizen, however, that because
a hero and conqueror deserves admiration and price as, and in this sense seems paradoxical word
to be said that the deity returns back to a sinner even have more fun than ninety-nine just. But,
unfortunately, could Ferdinand by his good decisions, through his recovery and restitution of
the sad consequences of the act does not eliminate that awaited him again and again pacified mind should
already be painfully hurt .

During his absence storm had the assembled that his admissions in his father's house break out should
in now. Ferdinand's father was, as we know what private fund concerned his, not the ordinary, action
items, however, were by a skilful and accurate Associes very really worried. The old man had stolen
the money that the son he did not even noticed, except Unfortunately, such a package in these
areas have been unusual type of coin was one that he had the game won
from a stranger

.


That Captain Levee had some object in saying this, I was quite certain; and therefore I made
no remark. The passengers thanked him for his proposal; and, being provided with writing materials,
they all wrote to their friends, and put their letters into Captain Levee's hands, who then
bade them farewell, and went on deck with me.

"Of course, you were not serious in what you said, Captain Levee?" I inquired, as we walked
forward.

"No," he replied; "but I considered it prudent to make them believe so. Although Englishmen,
they are enemies to our country, so far as they are enemies to our government, and, of course,
wish no harm to the French, who have so warmly supported them. Now, if they knew that I remained
here waiting for your coming out of the river, they would say so, and I might lose the chance
of a good prize, as nothing would sail, if they knew that the coast was not clear. Now, I shall
part company with you in an hour, and make all sail for England, as they may suppose, but without
fail, to-morrow night I shall be off here again, about five leagues from the port, with my
sails furled; therefore, stay in the river as long as they will let you, as, while you are
in port with the flag of truce, vessels may sail out."

"I understand you, and will do all I can to assist your views, Captain Levee. Now, we will
go down again. I will give you a receipt for a coil of rope, which you will send your boat
for, and write a letter to the owners, after which you will wish me good bye, and make sail."

"Exactly," Captain Levee replied, who then ordered his boat to go for a coil of three inch,
and bring it on board.

We then descended to the cabin, and I wrote a letter to the owner, and also a receipt for the
coil of rope, which I delivered to Captain Levee. The boat soon returned from the lugger, the
rope was taken on board, and then Captain Levee wished me farewell, and made his polite adieus
to the gentlemen who followed him on deck, and waited there till he had hoisted in his boat,
and made all sail.

"How long will she be before she arrives at Liverpool with this wind?" inquired Mr. Campbell.

"She will carry her canvas night and day," I replied; "and, therefore, as she sails so fast,
I should say in five or six days."

"Well, I am grateful that we have such an early and safe opportunity of communicating with
our friends in England, we might have waited two months otherwise."

"Very true," replied the priest, "but Heaven has assisted our anxious wishes. Let us be grateful
for all things."

My passengers watched the lugger until she was nearly out of sight. I dare say that their thoughts
were, that those on board of her were going to the country of their birth, from which they
were exiles, probably for ever: they did not speak, but went down below, and retired to their
beds. At daylight the next morning I ran the schooner in; and as soon as I was within three
miles of the coast, I hoisted the white flag of truce, and stood for the mouth of the river
Garonne. I perceived that the batteries were manned, but not a shot was fired, and we entered
the river.

When we were a mile up the river, we were boarded by the French authorities, and my passengers,
who had dressed themselves in their proper costume, informed the officer in the boat who they
were, upon which he was very polite, and calling a pilot out of the boat, the schooner was
taken charge of by him, and we very soon afterwards, having wind and tide in our favour, were
anchored alongside of two large merchant vessels and a French privateer of sixteen guns, which
I instantly recognized as our old antagonist off Hispaniola, in the action in which the Revenge
was captured, and Captain Weatherall lost his life. However, I kept my knowledge to myself,
as the French officer and the Jacobite gentleman were present. As soon as we had anchored,
the passengers were requested to go into the boat, and the French officer and I to accompany
them, that I might report myself to the governor, and we pulled away to the town, one of my
boats following with the passengers' luggage.

On our landing, there was a great crowd assembled, and they looked very hard at me, as I was
dressed in my lace coat and a cocked-up hat, also bound with broad gold lace. On our arrival
in the presence of the governor, we were received with much urbanity; and as I had brought
the Jacobite gentlemen in my schooner, it was presumed that I was favourable to the cause,
and I was very politely treated. The governor invited us all to dine with him on that day.
I made some excuse, saying, that I was anxious to return to Liverpool; that I might fit out
for the coast of Africa, in which service I was to be employed by my owners; but the passengers
insisted upon my staying a day or two, and the governor added to their solicitations, his own.

I therefore accepted, not only because I was glad to have an opportunity to see so celebrated
a town, but because it would meet the views of Captain Levee. We took leave of the governor,
and went to an hotel, and I then sent my boat on board for necessaries, and hired a handsome
apartment in the hotel. I had not been there half an hour, when the priest came to me and said,
"Captain, you are not aware of the rank and consequence of the three gentlemen whom you have
been so successful in escorting to a place of safety. I am requested by them to make you a
handsome remuneration for your kindness and skilful conduct on this occasion."

"Sir," I replied, "that must not be. I am most happy in having assisted in the escape of unfortunate
gentlemen; and all the pleasure I feel at having so done would be destroyed if I were to accept
of what you offer. It is useless to repeat it; and if you do, I shall consider it an insult,
and immediately repair on board of my vessel. You will therefore tender my best thanks and
my refusal, with ardent wishes for their future welfare."

"After what you have said, Captain Elrington, I will, of course, not resume the offer. I will
tell my fellow-passengers what you have said, and I am sure that they will, as I do, admire
your high sense of honour."--The priest shook me by the hand, and then quitted my apartment.
I did not see the other passengers till it was the hour to go to dine at the governor's, when
they embraced me cordially, and the one calling himself Campbell said, "Should you ever be
in distress or a prisoner in this country, recollect you have a friend who is ready to serve
you. Here is an address to a lady, to whom you must write, and say that you wish the assistance
of your passenger to Bordeaux--that will be sufficient--I trust you may never require it."

We had a pleasant dinner at the governor's, and among the people invited to meet us, I perceived
the French captain of the privateer. I knew him immediately, although he did not recognize
me. We had some conversation together, and he spoke about his cruises in the West Indies, and
asked me whether I knew Captain Weatherall. I said there was a Captain Weatherall who commanded
the Revenge privateer, and who was killed when his vessel was taken.

"Exactly," said the captain; "he was a brave man, and fought nobly, and so did all his people--they
fought like devils."

"Yes," I replied, "they fought as long as they could, but Captain Weatherall was very short-handed.
He had but fifty-five men on board at the commencement of the action."

"More than that, I'm sure," replied the French captain.

"He had not, I assure you," I replied; "he had lost so many in an attack on shore, and had
so many away in prizes."

Our conversation had attracted general notice, and a French army officer observed, "Monsieur
speaks so positively, that one would imagine that he was actually on board."

"And so I was, Sir," replied I, "and have my wounds to show for it. I knew this officer immediately
I saw him, for I was close to Captain Weatherall at the time that this officer expostulated
with him before the action; and I crossed my sword with him during the combat."

"You have convinced me that you were on board," replied the captain of the privateer, "by your
mentioning the expostulations previous to the combat taking place. I am delighted to have met
with so brave an enemy, for every man on board that vessel was a hero."

The conversation was then general, and many particulars were asked; and I will do the French
captain the justice to say, that he was very correct in all his statements, and neither vaunted
his own success, nor did us less than justice.

The party then broke up to go to the theatre, and afterwards we repaired to the hotel. I remained
there two days more, and on the last of these two days I had promised to sup with the French
captain of the privateer, who had called upon me, and behaved very politely. The following
day, after noon, when the tide served, I was to sail. Accordingly, after the theatre was over,
I went with the French captain to his house, in company with two or three more. Supper was
on the table when we arrived there, and we went into the room, waiting for the presence of
the captain's lady, who had not gone to the theatre, and to whom I had not been introduced.
After a few minutes she made her appearance, and as she entered the room, I was struck with
her extreme beauty, although she was past the meridian of life. I thought I had seen her face
before, and as she came forward with her husband, it at once rushed into my mind that she was
the widow of the French gentleman who had so gallantly fought his vessel, and who fell by my
hand--the lady who was nursing her son at the King's Hospital at Jamaica, and who had been
so inveterate against me. Our eyes met, and her cheeks flushed; she recognized me, and I coloured
deeply as I bowed to her. She was taken with a faintness, and fell back. Fortunately her husband
received her in his arms.

"What is the matter, my love?" he said.

"Nothing; but I am taken with a vertigo," replied she; "it will go off directly. Make my excuses
to the company, while I retire for a few minutes."

Her husband went out of the room, and after a minute or two came back, saying that Madam was
not well enough to return to the room, and begged that they would admit her excuse, and sit
down to supper without her. Whether his wife had informed him of who I was, I know not; but
nothing could exceed the civility of the French captain towards me during the supper. We did
not, however, remain very late, as the lady of the house was indisposed.

I found out, as I walked home with another French officer, that the captain of the privateer
had fallen in with the French lady on her return from Jamaica, where her son died in the hospital,
and had married her; and that, moreover, unlike most French husbands, he was most ardently
attached to her.

I had breakfasted the next morning, and packed up my clothes preparatory to going on board,
and had just returned from a visit of leave-taking with the governor, when who should walk
up into my apartment but the French captain of the privateer, accompanied by three or four
French officers of the army. I perceived by his looks when he entered that he was a little
excited, but I met him cordially. He began a conversation about his action with Captain Weatherall,
and instead of speaking handsomely as he had done before, he used expressions which I considered
offensive, and I at once took him up by observing that being under a flag of truce, it was
impossible for me to notice what he said.

"No," he replied; "but I wish we were once more on the high seas together, for I have a little
debt of gratitude to pay off."

"Well," I replied, "you may have; and I should not be sorry to give you an opportunity, if
it were possible."

"May I inquire whether you intend to go home as a cartel, and carry your flag of truce to Liverpool?"

"No, Sir," I replied; "I shall haul down my flag of truce as soon as I am out of gun-shot of
your batteries. I understand what you mean, Sir. It is very true that your vessel carries nearly
double the number of men and guns that mine does, but nevertheless I shall haul down my flag
of truce, as I say I will."

"Not if I follow you down the river, I presume?" he said with a sort of sneer.

"Follow me, if you dare," I cried; "you will meet with your master, depend upon it."

"Sacre!" replied he, in a passion, "I will blow you out of the water; and if I take you I will
hang you for a pirate."

"Not the last, certainly," I said coolly.

"Look you, Sir," he cried, shutting his fist upon the palm of his other hand, "if I take you,
I will hang you; and if you take me, you may serve me in the same way. Is it a bargain, or
are you a coward?"

"Gentlemen," I said to the officers present, "you must feel that your countryman is not behaving
well. He has insulted me grossly. I will, however, consent to his terms on one condition, which
is, that he will permit one of you, after he has sailed, to make known the conditions upon
which we fight to his wife; and that one of you will pledge me his honour that he will impart
these conditions as soon as we are gone."

"Agree to do so--pledge yourself to do so, Xavier," cried the French captain to one of the
officers present. 

"Now your textbooks, Gebhard"

"Shall I take them?" Amazed, he saw mother to and concern sounded his question:
"Must I get into the Christmas holidays?"

"During the holidays, but afterwards, when school starts again, you
have but books have yours."

"The
holidays come after but again I here? ""

That's not the one Gebhard. The grandmother will keep you happy. Was it not told the uncle? "" No.
" He was very thoughtful.

The mother was standing in front of the case, had the hand stretched out to the textbooks, which
did not come. She saw Gebhards face was sad. Now he clung to her. "Mother, you can not come to the grandmother?"
Did she just tell me all invited alone? "" No, but the sister is still too small for such a
winter trip and she needs me yet!

"" Yes, but Mom, you have much once said to me before, now we were always together, the father
and you and I, which was very nice.

And now the father is gone and then I have no mother! "" Oh, yes, Gebhard, I remain quite sure
your faithful mother! "But, Gebhard said defiantly:" As a mother, not me in, helps me nothing.
one I've ever had, in heaven, but I want one that stays with me.

"" Later Gebhard, we will surely come back together, but now you
have the time being the grandmother.

    In her earlier but you were so fond of, and here - were you
    happy to be here in the house, with Uncle and Aunt?
    "" No, not at all happy because the father did not like. Recently
they have so terrible about the father said something that you can
not hear at all, mother.'s why I like them no more!

" Tears of anger came to the child at the memory. "When was that?" "That evening, where the uncle
Jüngferlein wanted!" "Oh, then? Gebhard, look, you will be happier with his grandmother. It has
the love my father and it takes you to your Leo love to you!

"" So? "she wrote that?" He slowly pulled away from the mother. "Here are my school books." Still, they
completed the business of packing, but worried the dog ran back and forth, he noticed that the unusual
was going on.

"You must go with me, Leo, is only satisfied, we separate the two
of us not!

With these words, Gebhard the narrow head of the dog between his
hands.

A faint barking testified the consent of the clever animal, and it now lay quietly next to the
suitcase, and Good Lord to watch over his little belongings ready.

They were ready, the room looked bleak. "Come now, Gebhard," said
the mother and it was her sad heart to the empty room, "Come, let
us look after his sister."

He took
her hand, looked up at her and saw that she was sad. "Mother," he began, "now do you think
of his father, I see you always.

But you still have your Jüngferlein that is you but the most charming, and that remains with you."
She pressed his hand tightly. No, they now had not even thought of her husband, but to the young
man who is affectionately on her hand and she was so comforted even
though they sent him away.

Even before the room door she heard her aunt, the fun had with the
little ones.

She laughed loudly and high-spirited delight. The funny little daughter - the sad boy - there was to
think of the mother.

In the early morning the following day Helen came in Gebhard's bedroom. He woke up at their entrance.
Fresh and energetic mother stood before him more, not as long. "Gebhard, get up, it is time
that we travel, we two together!"

And when he large, questioning eyes at her with, she smiled brightly and sat down beside him on
the bed and said: "I've been thinking night: the Jüngferlein is
despicable, it works does not mind if I go away, it exulting at my
aunt like me.

But my boy, who would like to like to have in, so I will at least go for a week with him! " As
was the young woman hugged and kissed her violently, and had her husband think of. An hour later
they were on the trip.

Chapter Five. Our two travelers had time alone in the compartment: Leo had not intruded, plainly,
he had found therein in which certain space for his peers to take
place.

Gebhard was a whole while at the window and saw the winter landscape in addition, it was so wonderfully
happy to be mute, as if it was only now that the mother again. He would have liked to know just
how she was at heart! Once before he had turned to her, she looked thoughtful, but can not
find words to a question. Now he looked at her again. "You want some?" she asked. "No .-- Yes,
yes. I just want to know if it freezes you not?" "No. Why do you think? If there before you
cold?" "I do not. The uncle was like, you could catch cold, but eh, it's comfortably warm? Today
I like driving so well, you too, Mother?

"She smiled kindly at him and pushed the bag aside, lay beside her."

Seat you to me, Gebhard.

"This was quickly followed by the call and they moved close together." Gelt, the Jüngferlein
is quite delighted with my aunt, "he said." Yes, of course, that does
not miss us. ""

I like that just thus, well, that I have once had for me all alone, "he said," we can speak
of the father, if we want. But the aunt said I should not upset you, so we prefer to talk about
something else. It has given me Eßvorrat in my gun, we want to even watch that? "" Yes, "said the
mother, we look for the good things that will not upset me quite
sure." She laughed at him kindly.

"You see now like this, mother, as before, so nice.

"But he would not have to say, for at once came a few tears in her
bright eyes.

Then he quickly grabbed the gun from, and because in doing so one
apple on the ground rolled and while he afterwards stooped a number
followed by nuts, she had to laugh and he laughed with him and they
were happy together for the first time without his father.

Towards the end of the journey, while Gebhard already impatient with the reunion of the grandmother
was looking forward to was the young woman's heart back hard.

She had probably made on her brother's persuasion to tell them anything that they had persuaded
her husband, to go with the Russians, and they could even be sure
when her mother-only event to see and hear no reproach.

But this very cautious evasion and concealment was not in their nature
and therefore it was afraid the reunion with the mother.

Helene knew that she was not expected, only Gebhard and his faithful
companion Leo was announced.

As passengers in the station imports, fell the emptiness platform
on the.

He was the number blocked, as a hospital train with a large number of wounded arriving should shortly.
A number of medics with stretchers, waiting for the next train, but among them was a single
large woman in a long coat with warm Pelzzeug, under her black velvet hat looked gray hair out
simple and inquiring eyes looked towards the arriving train.

This was Dr. Stegemann, the commander at the entrance which had requested to meet their own grandson
to pick up travelers.

Gebhard grandmother recognized the immediate and hurried them on. "My dear, big boy," she cried,
"I am glad you are come to me. And your beautiful Leo is there too! Just come right away, we
have to leave the platform as quickly as possible. "" But the mother is also here, I'm just
vorausgesprungen "" His mother? Come with it? "Yes, it was just the two and saw clearly that the
unexpected reunion of her grandmother's grave face lit up with joy."

So you're coming, "she said, extending the hand to the young woman," is yes then all well and good, but
we are together at this time! "The Helen also felt at that moment. As if they would be closer
to her husband, so she felt. She had not even known that mother and son all the same, clear, soulful
eyes and the same deep voice had. They walked together out to the train
station. There was the tram-stop, the dogs but was not permitted.

"Can jump after Leo," said the grandmother. "He can well, "said Gebhard," but the father never
liked to let him jump beside the car. ""

Then you go with him on foot, do you remember the way? You've done it two years ago. "" Not really, " Gebhard
said concern. "We should probably take a cab and let the dog to us," suggested Helena. "Guard.
A big boy with such a good dog looks for just his way. Add to Gebhard. You follow the tracks
of the electric always up to the marketplace. Then ask thou You know street and number? ""
Yes, John 5th bridge "the two women got in and Gebhard went with his faithful companion on foot.
Helene was surprised at the grandmother, the beloved grandson of unreasonable demands made equal.
Yes, this was again the severity which they had in memory, not the
good-natured, soft-hearted tone she used was from their own home.

Now she knew again why she was afraid, and it came over her an oppressive
fear of the conversation which could not fail.

Dr. Stegemann lived on the top floor of a house in the old town.

The beautiful, comfortable facilities of the modern era were missing this apartment, however, it
was spacious and had many rooms, chambers and corridors.

From
the old-fashioned small windows we looked out over the roofs of the
houses, on streets and roads out into the distance, gardens and fields,
the city limited.

The last ray of sun still found its way high up in the apartment.

Except a maid had Dr. Stegemann, two young house mates, two granddaughters,
in the larger city a school for girls visited here.

From them she told Helen, after she Electrical leave and house was coming to, because both
did not like the road from the talk on what their hearts on most
moving.

While they arrived storey building by floor climbed in, Helene was
surprised at the sixty, that of noticing seemed the effort nothing.

"Mother, you get how can!" "It's a habit." "But thee not annoying? you you were allowed to's
probably easier to do it. "" Why? "I remain happy in the exercise.
As long as I'm healthy hurts me the rise anything.

It would be nothing but comfort, if I did not want to do." Lusty it rose advance. At the top they
were received by the servant with the news that a foreign lady for
a long time to wait and they would like to speak to her.

At the same time came quickly and vividly, the two sisters, Gretchen
and Else, tall girl with blond braids and fresh, happy faces.

They were surprised, instead of their little cousin's Aunt Helen to see
the expected, which they knew only in the image.

"Power is the aunt comfortably, children," grandmother said to them,
"and you, Helene, let not scare you, if uneasy approaching me, so
be it in the war years.

There are so many girls in abroad and were now jobless, are the contact
us' friends of the young girl.

"To such a thing, it will now act itself."

She left the room. Helene was surprised. She had her grandmother's life and thought of complete
silence , noted now that this right in life and work was still standing
and soon saw that the two granddaughters all sorts war aid attending
and grandmother inspired were spirit of.

You now turned eagerly to the young aunt, whose lovely appearance to them very much liked it,
drop helped chatted familiarly, and soon came to speak, what they fulfilled. "May we your pantry
show our?

We have whole pile of children's linen sewed one for the displaced
East Prussia and have and socks for the soldiers, knitted gloves,
like See you there?

" Helene gladly followed the eager girls in her room and sat on the old-fashioned lead Pfeilerschränkchen
in which all manner of work had piled up. In the midst of this consideration, came accompanied
by his dog, Gebhard. He had separated from his mother does not like, because he knew she had
come hither for his sake only, he had such a vague feeling that it
was afraid of being with his grandmother.

He had a gallop with his dog in the tram followed, quickly had their way and entered the house wanted
for now encouraged by the rapid course, with fresh, rosy cheeks into
the room.

Else Grete and the same for this little cousin were taken and the dog was them attractive. You have
never had such a household had wanted him acquaintance close with him gave way, but from yet, as
he sniffed. It was not long, so Leo stretched out comfortably in the society from the middle. "Now is he had at
home, "said Gebhard satisfied," he realizes that we are not strangers when, in a strange house,
he never lies down by himself. "It pleased the cousin and was delighted
Gebhard.

Where was he like and where it liked Leo, had to feel at home but also his dear mother. After a short
time was also the grandmother again.

She had given notice to the young girl, the teacher had been in England, in a wealthy family,
one for boys, and now she was offered a place, in a simple family of four boys. recent should
they, moving the did not fit her. "I have given her, courage," said Dr. Stegemann, "in the
war must we be happy, if I may lairs somewhere, and by the way I
want now ten German educate rather than an Englishman.

And why not little boys eject?

We must indeed be happy if it right German boys are a lot! you want
it now and try me on Sunday to report how it goes.

But now comes to tea, "and she took the daughter in law on the long,
dark corridor.

Helene thought involuntarily of the brightly lit room in her brother's
house.

"Everywhere you realize the war," said Ms. Stegemann.

"Kerosene is just to be with you too." "I do not know it was not the speech of them." "No? It
is a great hardship for many people.

Some families can not illuminate your room at night.

For such, we always save some of that petroleum, which comes to us. Why should we not also fall a
little in the dark? Our soldiers must be based on very different paths in the dark handle difficult
to find. "Gebhard high listened to these and similar statements by the grandmother. While the simple dinner
he told the nurses what was wartime and what not, what the family the benefit of the Fatherland failed
and how she was eager to feed on itself, which is abundant and danger was in ruin, too. Now,
Else Grete and saw how it was all new to him and that he was burning zeal for all profit, they
asked, whether he would join in if it Sunday with the Red Cross rifle through the streets were
next to, and flowers for the wounded to offer cards. He had often seen before, but never thought
that one also it somehow patriotic activities need could such for.
proud he was happy about these new prospects.

"grandmother," said Else, "which is fine!

Gebhard carries the rifle, we are the flowers and we say to all,
we encounter:" Here, our cousin, is himself an exile , a refugee from
East Prussia!

"Since we are twice as like everyone!" "And we take the dog too," suggested Grete, "he sees polizeimäßig
like this, with him we can all corners of the city in cars!" The three related children joined
after a short acquaintance, and were happy together.

Helene was amazed at how quickly Gebhard felt at home. On-stocked table of her siblings she had never
seen so satisfied, as here, the good cheer had pleases him less than the simple relations, which
he was accustomed to at home, as domestic air and he felt the patriotism, the spirit of the lodge
had been dominant, too. CHAPTER VI. The tea was over, finally the moment had to come, the Helene
been afraid to , had the debate about what silent heart both women employed in more than all the things
about which they had the kids entertained themselves. "I would now
like to undisturbed hour with Aunt Helen to be a," Stegemann said
Dr. to the sisters.

"He who comes around and asks me to wait or come back later. Gebhard can stay with you, come,
Helene, let's go to your room. "But Helene took involuntarily Gebhards hand and held it. The
grandmother saw the almost painful movement of the young woman." You want to take Gebhard? "She
asked in astonishment . Oh yes, please. We have all gone through together. "" So come along, Gebhard.
I'll show you right at your place to sleep.

"Before the door waiting for the dog, he joined the little man at
his.

Dr. Stegemann went ahead, led their guests to the end of a long corridor."
Here is the guest room which is for you addressed, Helene, and we
did not know you were coming.

    
    
    And here to, is your chamber, Gebhard, look. "They went into
    a large, bright room. A simple cot
    
    was in it." As for a real soldier, " said the grandmother, "only that
pillows and a feather bed has a. Getting the yes men do not, but you're
still not, but want only one will.

"sleeping it without feather beds, the soldiers?" Gebhard said thoughtfully, "then I will take it
without trying it." "Will you ?

That's right! You know, springs are a little soft, warm, ever one of them know will Bub less, the
better. "" So get rid of it, "cried the little man, 'grandmother, where?" He grabbed the quilt.
But Helene laid the hand on it. "Oh, please, mother," she said, "it is too cold for the child,
it is not used to it."

"So we let the bed here. You can do it at night to keep it as you like. And look, I've made room for
your clothes. "She closed her large, old-fashioned wardrobe in one." Here, come in your clothes
you can hang.

"" I will help him to give them, "said Helene. She had an excuse ahead of any the debate
continues to push out.

While the cabinet was now open, rose Leo, who already had laid Gebhards
bed beside him, followed her, was restless, pushed his nose into the
closet and began to whimper. you all noticed the strange demeanor.

"What
is there in the back of the cupboard, grandmother," said Gebhard. into it attacked. "There are
just clothes."

She took off the hooks, which hung there, a raincoat, a few summer clothes, always excited followed
the dog to their movements, and now that they again garment pulled
out one, a Mr. Juppe, now sprang animal up to and stuck his head into
his.

"Oh, that's a Juppe from your father, it is possible that he recognizes?

" "But of course, grandmother, look how he sniffs as he pleased and it pulls!" A jerk - and the
dog had Juppe on the ground pulled the. He lay down beside it, front paws stretched out at full
length on the ease with burrowed his head in the garment and took possession of it so firmly that
it is not advisable, it seemed to take away.

Gebhard threw himself beside his dog on the floor, and stroked him
and spoke to him: "Where is the Lord, where is thy good master?"

Leo, you think of the Lord? "The animal wagged his tail. Touched by the loyalty of the dog turned
off Helen, could be overcome with longing and pain down on the cot and wept bitterly. Dr. Stegemann
sat down beside the young woman sobs shook and spoke of her soft,
motherly tone in which Helene had never heard of her yet.

Gradually waned as her fear and the urge came over her, the mother of her husband entrust all suffering.
She gathered up her strength. "Mother," she said, "it's all much, much worse than you know!" "How
so? Do you know more than what you wrote me?" Have you news of Rudolf? Bad news? "" No, no, not
a word I have heard from him since that day. But it was different
than you think, I can so hard on the lips, take it!

"Mrs. Dr. Stegemann sat up at attention and the soft tone was no
longer in their voice, grasped as the worst messages, daughter said
to "talk at length, Helene.

We must not be timid in this hard time.

I can hear everything, even the most cruel. And you must speak truth to each. Be brave but also
what helps the wine? "With these words, Gebhard, located next to the
dog on, stepped quickly to Helene's hand and stroked her hand.

"Grandmother," he cried, "the mother may not be as brave as you think, the father told me that
she is not so hard as we carved Stegemann.

They must always be treated very delicately! As the young woman threw
her arms around her defender and said to him: "The grandmother has yet
right and I will, too, that she learns everything. Gebhard, you tell
it, you were there and you must always do not cry , as I do! "" Yes,
"said Gebhard," may the the know grandmother, no one else in the world!
"The little man gave himself a jerk, that he stood at attention and
began:" grandmother, so that's it: First, came a German officer with
five soldiers and discussed something in secret with the Father.

Meanwhile,
the soldiers were cooking on our stove and we helped them.

Then we told the father that he must accompany her, but no one
would know where to go. They moved in night with each other on. Next
day the father came back alone and said we would fly fast, the Russians
could soon come. we began at once, things on cars in the yard to
load our own, but into the midst came a whole troop of Russians an
officer.

They
went upstairs and I told them after that. In the living room was the
father but the mother with the Jüngferlein was not there. The Russian
officer asked where the German patrol was gone, the last night in
the lodge and was Swept the father was accompanying.

I do not remember
exactly what his father said the first, but the officer asked as he
should go with him and take him the same way as his father said,
"No, I'm a good German and would not a traitor.

"But the officer told
him he could do nothing against so many and he has promised him he
should come home immediately, and all of us should do nothing happened,
but if he is not the way they show that we must all die.

The father has not given in and it
was terrible, as angry as the officer has become, and because I've
also called the father to give anything away, I received a very angry
soldiers seized and held the notes up there on the arm , where there
are so hurt, and I just screamed out of sheer anger always: "Father,
do not do it!

But then - "faltered Gebhard. He looked at
the mother." Shall I say everything, mother, everything? "" Everything,
Gebhard "" Then mother's bedroom door was unbolted and has the distance
created by and asked the father will leave us nothing happened. The
father, the mother really spy on and then he has not '' can say no. He slipped
in and has promised to lead them.

They are then
ridden away and we thought the father would come again in the evening,
the officer has promised to honor him yet. The parole must still keep
an officer in the war not, grandmother? "He got no answer. The grandmother,
bated the pain had consulted with the report still looked into the
distance, as if her eyes sought the son she had lost.

Helen grabbed her hands and said softly: "Mother, forgive
me and do not despise me altogether.

Know you
were heroically was I and I was a coward, was in mortal fear, which
he can not see that, and for my sake, he is a traitor become.

I'm to blame for
this debt now lies on his conscience

.
 They all condoled with me, and expressed their sorrow at my leaving them, and I
believe that they were sincere. It was fortunate that I did as I had done, for I found that
the government emissaries were on board at the time that I made the communication, and had
already gained the information from some of my crew. I ordered my chest and bedding to be put
into the boat, and as soon as they were ready, I gave up the command to the first officer,
and bidding them all farewell, went down the side, and pulled on shore, repairing to my former
lodgings.

I had not been there two hours before I was arrested and taken to prison. I was, however, very
comfortably lodged, because I was a state prisoner, and I presume that more respect is paid
to a man when he is to be drawn and quartered, and his head set above the Tower gates, then
a petty malefactor. The next day I was summoned before what was called the Commission, and
asked whether I had not landed some people in France? I replied immediately that I had done so.

"Who were they?" was the next inquiry.

"They stated themselves to be Roman Catholic priests," replied I, "and such I believed them to be."

"Why did I do so?"

"Because, in the first place, they paid me one hundred guineas each; and, in the second, because
I considered them mischievous, dangerous men, conspiring against the government, and that the
sooner they were out of the country the better."

"How did I know that they were traitors?"

"All Roman priests were traitors in my opinion, and I hated them as bad as I did the French,
but it is difficult to deal with a priest, and I thought that I was performing a good service
in ridding the country of them."

"Who else was privy to the affair?"

"No one; I had made the arrangement with them myself, and not an officer or man on board knew
any thing about it."

"But my owner, Mr. Trevannion, was he a party to it?"

"No, he was not; and on my return he dismissed me from the command of the privateer, as soon
as he found out that I had landed the priests in France."

A great many more questions were put to me, all of which I answered very cautiously, yet without
apparent hesitation; and after an examination of four hours, the president of the Commission
told me that I had been, by my own acknowledgment, aiding and abetting the escape of malignant
traitors, and prevented them meeting their just fate on the scaffold. That, in so doing, I
had been guilty of treason, and must abide the sentence of the supreme Commission in London,
whither I should be sent the following day. I replied that I was a loyal subject; that I hated
the French and Romish plotters, and that I had done what I considered was best; that if I had
done wrong, it was only an error in judgment; and any one that said I was a traitor, lied in
his throat.

My reply was taken down, and I was sent back to prison.

The following afternoon the gaoler came into my room accompanied by two persons, one of whom
informed me that I was delivered over to their custody to be taken to London. I was led out,
and at the door I found three horses, upon one of which I was desired to mount. As soon as
I was in the saddle, a rope was passed from one leg to the other under the horse's belly, so
as to prevent my escape; and my horse was led between the other two, upon which my keepers
rode, each having a hand-rein made fast from my horse's bridle to his own. A crowd was assembled
round the entrance of the gaol, and among the lookers-on I perceived Captain Levee and my owner;
but of course I thought it imprudent to take any notice of them, and they did not make any
recognition of me.

I hardly need say, my dear Madam, how very revolting it was to my feelings to be thus led away
like a felon; but at the same time I must acknowledge the courtesy of my conductors, who apologized
for being compelled to take such measures of security, and on the way showed great kindness
and good-feeling.

Every thing being arranged, we proceeded on our journey; but it was late when we set off, owing
to one of my conductors being sent for by the commissioner, and having to wait for letters
for nearly three hours. As it may be supposed, we could not travel at speed, and we seldom
went faster than a walk, which I was sorry for, as I was anxious that the journey should be
over, and my fate decided as soon as possible.

Almost an hour after dark, a party of men rushed from the side of the road, and some seizing
the bridles of the horses, the others threw the two conductors off their saddles by taking
them by the leg and heaving them over on the other side. This was done so quickly, that the
two men, who were well armed, had not time to draw out a pistol or any other weapon of defence;
and as soon as they were on the ground, they were immediately seized and overpowered. The faces
of the men who had thus assailed the king's officers were blackened so as to disguise them,
but from their voices I knew them to be the men and officers of the privateer. "Now then, Captain
Elrington," said one of them, "be off with you as fast as possible, and we will take care of
these fellows."

I still remained in my saddle, and although somewhat flurried with the surprise of the attack,
I had had time to recover myself, and had decided upon my mode of behaviour. I felt as I had
said to the owner when we consulted together, that an escape now would be only putting off
the evil day, and that it was better to meet the case boldly at once; so I rose in my stirrups,
and said to the men in a loud voice, "My good fellows, I am much obliged to you for your exertions
in my behalf, as it proves your good-will, but I cannot and will not take advantage of them.
By some mistake I am accused of being a traitor, when I feel that I am a true and loyal subject,
which I have no doubt will be fully established upon my arrival in London. I cannot, therefore,
take advantage of this opportunity to escape. I respect the laws of my country, and I beg you
to do the same. Oblige me by releasing the two gentlemen whom you have made your prisoners,
and assist them to remount their horses, for I am resolved that I will go to London and be
honourably acquitted. Once more, my lads, many thanks for your kind intentions; and now I wish
you farewell, and if you would do me a great favour, you will disperse peaceably, and leave
us to proceed on our journey."

The men perceived that I was in earnest, and therefore did as I requested, and in another minute
I was again alone with my two keepers.

"You have behaved honourably, Sir, and perhaps wisely," observed one of my conductors, as he
was about to remount his horse. "I will not ask you who those people were, although I have
no doubt but you recognized them yourself."

"No," I replied, "I did not. I guessed from whence they came, but I did not recognize any one
individual."

I gave this cautious answer, although I had recognized Captain Levee and one of my own officers.

"Well, Captain Elrington, you have proved to us that you may be trusted, and therefore, on
your pledging your word that you will not escape, we shall have a great pleasure in removing
all unpleasant precautions."

"I certainly have proved that I would not escape, and will readily give you my assurance that
I will not alter my mind."

"That is sufficient, Sir," replied the officer; and he then cut away the rope which bound my
legs, and also look off the two leading reins attached to the other horses. "We shall now,"
he said, "proceed not only more pleasantly, but more rapidly."

My conductors then mounted their horses, and we set off at a good trot, and in an hour arrived
at the place where we were to put up for the night. We found supper prepared for us, and good
beds. My conductors now left me free of all restraint, and we retired to our beds. The next
day we continued our journey in the same manner. My companions were pleasant and gentlemen-like
men, and we discoursed freely upon every topic; no one could have imagined that I was a state
prisoner.

We arrived at London on the fifth day, and I was then delivered over to the keeper of the Tower,
according to the instructions that my conductors had received. They bade me farewell, and promised
that they would not fail to represent my conduct to the authorities, and gave me hopes of a
speedy release. I had the same idea, and took possession of the apartments prepared for me
(which were airy and well ventilated) with almost cheerfulness.

On the third day after my arrival a Commission was sent to the Tower to examine me, and I gave
the same replies as before. They were very particular in obtaining the descriptions of the
persons of those whom I had landed in France, and I answered without disguise. I afterwards
found out that I had done a very foolish thing. Had I misrepresented their persons, it would
have been supposed that they really were four Catholic priests, but from my exact description,
they discovered that I had rescued the four traitors (as they termed them) that they were most
anxious to secure and make an example of; and their annoyance at this discovery had so angered
them against me, that my subsequent conduct could not create any feeling favourable towards me.

Three weeks elapsed, and I was wearied of confinement. My gaoler told me that he feared my
case was a bad one; and after another week had passed, he said that I was condemned as aiding
and abetting treason. I must say that I little expected this result, and it quite overthrew
me. I asked my gaoler what was his authority. He said that so many people had assisted and
effected the escape of the rebels without one having been convicted of having so done except
myself, on my own avowal, that they deemed it absolutely necessary that an example should be
made, to deter others from aiding those who were still secreted in the country; and that in
consequence it had been decided by the Privy Council that I should be made an example of. He
told me much more which I need not repeat, except that it proved the malignant feeling that
was indulged by the powers in authority against those who had assisted their defeated opponents,
and I felt that I had no chance, and prepared my mind to meet my fate.

Alas, my dear Madam, I was but ill-prepared to die,--not that I feared death, but I feared
what must be my condition after death. I had lived a reckless, lawless life, without fear of
God or man; all the religious feelings which had been instilled into me by my good tutor (you
know my family history, and I need say no more) during my youth, had been gradually sapped
away by the loose companionship which I had held since the time that I quitted my father's
house; and when I heard that I was to die, my mind was in a state of great disquiet and uncomfortable
feeling. I wished to review my life, and examine myself, but I hardly knew where to begin.

All was chaos and confusion. I could remember many bad actions, but few good ones. I felt that
I was like a vessel without a rudder, and without a pilot; and after hours and hours of deep
thought, I would give up the task of examination in stern despair, saying to myself, "Well,
if it must be so, it must." I felt an inclination to defy that Heaven which I felt would never
be opened to me. This was the case for more than a week after I heard of my condemnation, until
I began to reflect upon the nature of our creed, and the terms of salvation which were offered;
and, as I thought over them, I felt a dawn of hope, and I requested the gaoler to furnish me
with a Bible. I read it day and night, for I expected every morning to be summoned to execution.
I felt almost agony at times, lest such should be the case; but time passed on, and another
fortnight elapsed, during which I had profited by my reading, and felt some contrition for
my many offences, and my life of guilt, and I also felt that I could be saved through the merits
of Him who died for the whole world. Day after day my faith became more lively, and my mind
more at ease. One morning the gaoler came to me, and said that there was a priest who wished
to see me. As I understood he was a Roman, I was about to refuse; but on consideration, I thought
otherwise, and he was admitted. He was a tall, spare man, with a dark Spanish countenance.

"You are, I believe," said he, "Captain Elrington, who effected the escape of some of our poor
friends, and who are now condemned for your kind act?"

"I am, Sir," replied I.

"I am aware," said he, "that your profession of faith is not mine, and do not, therefore, come
to talk with you on serious points, without you should wish it yourself; my object is, being
indebted as we are to you for saving our friends, to offer to be of any use that I can to you,
in executing any wishes, or delivering any messages, which you may wish to give, should you
suffer for your generous conduct, and you may trust any thing to me with safety, that I swear
to you;" and he took a crucifix from the folds of his garment, and kissed it, as he said so.

"I thank you for your kind offer, Sir," replied I, "but I have nothing to trouble you with.
I have long quitted my family, who know not whether I am alive or dead, for reasons that I
need not explain. I am under an assumed name, and it is my intention to suffer under that name,
that my family may not be disgraced by my ignominious death, or be aware that I have perished
on the scaffold."

"Perhaps you are right," replied the priest; "but let us talk upon another point; have you
no friends that could exert themselves in your favour so as to procure your pardon and release?"

"None," replied I, "except those who, I am sure, are exerting themselves to the utmost of their
power, and to whom no message from me is necessary."

"Do you know nobody at court," said the priest, "no person of rank in the government--or I
may say opposed to the government--for people now-a-days are not what they seem or pretend to be?"

"I have no knowledge of any titled person," replied I; "when I parted with one of the gentlemen
whom I landed at Bordeaux, he gave me the name of a lady of quality at Paris, desiring me,
if in difficulty, to apply to him through her; but that was, if in difficulty in France; of
course, she could do nothing for me in this country."

"Have you the name of the lady?"

"Yes," replied I; "it is on the first leaf of my pocket-book. Here it is."

The priest read the name, and then said--

"You must write immediately a few words, acquainting her with your position. I will see the
letter safely delivered before the week is over."

"What good can she possibly do me?" replied I.

"I cannot say; but this I know, that if any thing is to be done, it will be. Write immediately."

The priest called the gaoler, and requested writing materials, which were brought, and in a
few minutes I had done as he requested.

"There, Sir, I have written to please you; but I candidly state that I consider it a useless
attempt."

"Were I of your opinion, I should not have advised you to write," replied he. "There are wheels
within wheels that you have no conception of, in these troubled times. What I most fear is,
that it may arrive too late."

The priest took his leave of me, and I was left to my own thoughts. When I considered that
the address of this lady had been given to me by the very man whom they were so anxious to
secure as a traitor, I at once decided that no benefit could arrive from any interference on
her part; and I therefore, after a quarter of an hour, dismissed the whole subject from my
thoughts, and commenced my reading of the sacred writings. The following morning, when the
gaoler came in, I could not help observing to him, that as I had been condemned so many days,
I felt much surprise at the delay of my execution. His reply was, that he heard that others
were in custody upon the same charge, and that they waited for their convictions that we might
all suffer at the same time; for the order for my execution had come on the Friday last, but
had been countermanded on the afternoon of the same day. Although this satisfied me that I
had no hopes of escape, yet I was pleased that I had obtained more time for preparation, and
I renewed my reading with ardour. Another week passed, when the gaoler, with a solemn face,
and much apparent concern, came in, and informed me that the other parties arrested had been
tried before the Commission, and had been condemned, and that it was expected that the execution
would take place either on the morrow or the day after. The announcement did not affect me
much. I had made up my mind that I should suffer, and had to a degree weaned myself from life.
I considered how all hopes of my ever enjoying the delight of family and kindred ties had flown
away, and I looked with disgust upon my career as a privateer's-man--a career of recklessness
and blood, so denounced by the sacred writings which I had before me. I reflected that if I
were to leave the prison, I should have no other means of sustenance, and should probably return
to my former life, and load my soul with a still heavier weight of crime, and, although I felt
an occasional bitter pang at the idea of leaving the world so young--a world which I could
not hate--still I was, after a few hours' communing and reflection, resigned to my fate, and
exclaimed with sincerity, "Thy will be done." I think, Madam, you may have observed that, sinful
as I was, my whole career proved that I was not a hardened sinner. Good was not driven entirely
out of me, but was latent, notwithstanding all my excesses, and the bad company which had influenced
me.

I now prayed, and prayed earnestly, and I thought that my prayers were heard. Such was my state
of mind on the day before the one appointed for my execution, when the gaoler and one of the
sheriff's officers came into my cell, accompanied by the Roman Catholic priest whom I have
before mentioned. I perceived by the countenance of the gaoler, who was a humane man, that
he had no unpleasant news. The sheriff's officer delivered to him an order for my liberation,
and to my astonishment I was told by the gaoler that my pardon was signed, and that I was free.
I was stupified with the intelligence, and I stood without making any reply. The priest waved
his hand to them as a hint to leave the room, which they both did. As they left, my eyes followed
them, and then I cast them down upon the Bible which lay before me on the table, and slipping
down from the bench upon my knees, I covered up my face and prayed. My prayers were confused--I
hardly knew what I said--but I knew that they were intended to be grateful to Heaven for my
unexpected preservation from an ignominious death. After a time, I rose up, and perceived the
priest, whose presence I had till then forgotten. He had been kneeling at the other side of
the table praying with me, and I am sure for me--and he was rising up just after I had.

"I trust, Captain Elrington," said he, after a pause, "that the peril you have been in will
influence your future life; and that this severe trial will not be thrown away upon you."

"I trust not, Sir," replied I. "I feel that it has been good for me to have been afflicted.
I believe that I have been indebted to your exertions for my deliverance."

"No further than having seen your letter duly and speedily delivered. I could do no more, for
with all will, I have no power; and that was little to do for one who so generously assisted
our friends in their distress."

"Am I then to believe that I am indebted to the interest of a French lady, residing at the
court of Versailles, for my deliverance?"

"Even so--this may appear strange to you, Captain Elrington, but such is the case. Understand,
that in these troubled times, the ruling monarch of this country cannot distinguish his friends
from his enemies. He can only trust to professions, and they are not always sincere. There
are many in the council at this time, who, if the Pretender, as he is called, had succeeded,
would long before this have joined him, and who had wished him success, although they dared
not venture to assist him. The interest of the lady in question with these people has prevailed
over the true adherents of the Hanoverian king, and thus through this lady have you obtained
your release. I state this to you in confidence; to publish what I have told you would be to
betray your friends. Can I be of any further service to you? for you can leave your prison
as soon as you please."

"None, I thank you, good Sir," replied I; "I have money more than sufficient to reward my gaoler,
and to defray my expenses to Liverpool."

"You have my best thanks and sincere wishes for your happiness. Then I will not intrude upon
you any more, except to give you my address in case of need. You have made warm friends by
your conduct, and if you ever require their assistance, it will not be withheld."

The priest gave his address upon a piece of paper, and then came to me.

"Our creeds are not exactly the same, but you will not, my son, refuse my blessing?" said he,
putting his hand upon my head.

"Oh, no," said I, dropping on my knees, "I receive it all in thankfulness."

"May God bless you, my son," said he, with emotion--and he then quitted the cell.

What with the previous excitement when my liberation was announced, and the parting with the
kind priest, my feelings were so powerful, that, as soon as I was alone, I gave vent to them
in a flood of tears. As soon as I was more composed, I rose from the bench, put my necessaries
into my valise, and summoned the gaoler, to whom I made a handsome present, thanking him for
his kindness during my incarceration. I then shook hands with him, fee'd the turnkey who had
attended upon me, and in a minute more I was clear of the Tower gates. How my heart heaved
when I was once more in the open air.

I looked around me, and perceived that many men were busy in erecting a scaffolding. My heart
sank as I beheld them, as I felt certain what it was for; but to verify my opinion, I turned
to an old woman who had a sort of stall from which she dispensed mead to the populace, and
inquired of her for what the scaffold was being erected.

"It's for the men who are to be executed to-morrow for aiding the Jacobites to escape," said
she. "Won't your worship take a glass of mead this morning?"

"I am not thirsty," I replied, as I walked hastily away with my valise upon my shoulders.

A stranger to this part of London, I hardly knew where to direct my steps; I walked past the
square before the Tower, until I came into a street called Catherine-street, where a tavern
met my view, and into it I entered immediately, glad, as it were, to hide myself, for I felt
as if all the world looked upon me as a person just discharged from prison. I obtained good
entertainment there, and slept there that night. The next morning, the host having provided
me two good horses, and a youngster to take them back, I set off for Liverpool, and after five
days' travel without adventure, I arrived at the town, and proceeded direct to the house of
Mr. Trevannion, my owner. I took my valise off the boy's horse, and having paid him for his
attendance, I knocked at the door, for it was late in the evening, and dark, when I arrived.
The door (for it was at his private house door, which was next to the counting-house door,
that I knocked) was opened; and the woman who opened it shrieked, and let drop the candle,
exclaiming, "Help, oh God--a ghost, a ghost!" for it appeared that the news had arrived at
Liverpool from a messenger who had been sent express after I had been condemned, stating that
there was no hope, and that I was to suffer on the Monday previous; and this was the Saturday
evening on which I had arrived. Mr. Trevannion's clerk hearing a noise in the passage, came
out with another candle, and seeing me, and the woman lying on the floor in a swoon, stared,
staggered to the door of the room where his master was sitting, and the door being a-jar, he
fell back with great force into the room, dropping under the table between Mr. Trevannion and
Captain Levee, who was sitting with him, smoking, as was very often their wont. This brought
out Captain Levee with one of the table-candlesticks, who, upon seeing me, ran to me, and embracing
me warmly, cried out, as the clerk made his escape--

"Here is Elrington alive and well, Sir!"

At this announcement Mr. Trevannion came out, and threw himself into my arms, saying--

"I thank God for all his mercies, but above all, that I have not been the cause of your death,
my dear Elrington. Come in," he exclaimed, in a faultering voice; and as soon as he gained
his seat, he laid his head down and sobbed with excitement and joy.

I followed Captain Levee into the room, and was taking a chair, when I perceived there was
another person present besides Captain Levee and Mr. Trevannion, which was the daughter of
the latter; that is, I presumed as much, for I knew that he was a widower, and had one daughter
living, out of a family of three children. She appeared to be about seventeen years of age,
and had just come from a Protestant convent, as they called establishments where young women
were educated at Chester. Mr. Trevannion was still with his face covered, and not yet recovered
from his burst of feeling, when this young gentlewoman came up to me, and said--

"Captain Elrington, you have behaved nobly to my father; accept my hand and my friendship."

I was so dazzled from coming out of the dark, and so excited from what had just passed, that
I was almost bewildered; but I accepted the offered hand, and bowed over it, although I declare
that at the time I could not distinguish her features, although I perceived that her person
was slight and elegant. As she retreated to her seat, Mr. Trevannion, who had recovered from
his emotion, said--

"I thought that, at this moment, your head was exhibited over the gates of Temple-bar. The
idea, as Captain Levee will tell you, has haunted me; for I felt, and should always have felt,
that I was the cause of your death. God bless you, my dear Sir, and may I have an opportunity
of showing you my gratitude and regard for your noble conduct towards me, and the sacrifice
which you would have made. You need not tell me, for I know too well, that you took all the
onus and blame of the affair upon your own shoulders, and preferred death to impeaching me."

"My dear Elrington," said Captain Levee, "I told our crew, and you have proved me a true prophet,
that you never would peach, but die game. We were talking of you, supposing you dead, when
you came in. I must tell you, that more than once Mr. Trevannion had made up his mind to deliver
himself up, and acknowledge the truth, but I prevented him, as it would have been a useless
sacrifice."

"You did; but, nevertheless, it was so heavy on my conscience, that had it not been for your
perseverance, and the thoughts of leaving my poor girl here an orphan in the world, I certainly
should have so done, for I felt life to be a burden."

"I am very glad that you did not, Sir," I replied; "my life is of little value; I have no one
to support, no one to love, and no one to lament me if I fall. A shot from the enemy may soon
send me out of the world, and there will only be a man the less in it, as far as people are
interested about me."

"That is not the case now, at all events," replied Mr. Trevannion; "but pray, tell us how it
is that you have escaped."

"I have not escaped," I replied; "here is my pardon, with the sign-manual."

"And how was it obtained?" exclaimed Captain Levee; "all intercession made through some of
the strongest friends of the government was in vain, that I can assert; for you must not suppose
that we have been idle down here. We did not leave London till after you were condemned, and
every entreaty to see you, or to communicate by letter, was denied to us."

"I had better, then, begin at the beginning, and state all that occurred. I will first thank
you, my dear Levee, for your kind assistance, which I would not avail myself of, as I calculated
(wrongly I own) that it would be wiser to remain a prisoner; and I considered that my very
refusal to escape would be admitted by the government as a proof of my innocence. I did not
know that I had to deal with such malignant people."

I then commenced my narrative, which occupied the remainder of the evening, and, having received
their congratulations, we had a pipe or two, and, as I was fatigued, we retired to bed. I slept
little on this, I may say, first night of rest and quiet, after my liberation. I was happy,
and yet perplexed. During the time of my imprisonment, it had occurred to me that the life
of a privateer's-man was not one which I could follow up with a good conscience; and I had,
on my journey down to Liverpool, made up my mind that I would give it up. Freed from the oppressive burden
of such an ugly crime, not without a modest satisfaction with himself, he now thought to his future
happiness and longingly awaited the return of Ottilie in order to explain and words in the whole extent
of meeting to be given. She came in company of their parents, he hurried to her, he found her more
beautiful and serene as ever. Impatiently, he awaited the moment in which he alone speak to her
and she could submit his prospects. The hour came, and with all joy and tenderness of the love
he told her his hopes, the closeness of his happiness and desire it with her to . share But how surprised
he was, indeed consternation like, as it the whole matter very lightly, indeed, one almost might
say, scornfully received. She was not joking about the very fine Hermitage, which he chose himself,
about the character that they both would play if they are as Schaefer
and Pastora a thatched roof fled may under, and what that kind.

Affected and embittered, he turned back in, her demeanor had him sullen, and
he became instant cold one. It was unfair he had opposed, and now he
noticed errors in it, which were otherwise remained hidden from him.
Also, it did not need a very bright eye, see that a so-called cousin,
who was mitangekommen, drew her attention and a large portion of her
affection had won.

    
    
    In the intolerable pain which Ferdinand felt he took it together
    soon, and overcoming that had already succeeded once it
    seemed to him a second time possible. He saw Ottilie
    often and won over to watch them, and he behaved in a friendly,
    even tenderly against her and not less against him, but her charms had lost
their greatest power, and soon he felt that something rare with her
from the heart was that they desire and tenderly cold, irritant and
repellent, comfortable and could be moody to the contrary.

His mind made up and after it go by, and he decided to also entzweizureissen the last threads.
This operation was painful, as he had imagined.

I thought then that her voice was like a silver bell, but made no other remark upon her. We
had, however, exchanged but few words before her father came in, accompanied by Captain Levee,
and we sat down to our morning's repast of chocolate.

After we had broken our fast, Captain Levee hastened away on board of his vessel. My imprisonment
had detained him from sailing, and Mr. Trevannion was anxious that he should be off as soon
as possible to make up for lost time, as the expenses of the vessel were heavy.

"Farewell, Elrington, for the present," said he; "I shall come to you on board of your schooner
some time during the day." When Captain Levee was gone--for, to tell the truth, I was afraid
of his ridicule--I thought it a good opportunity to give my thoughts to my owner, and as I
had nothing to say, which his daughter might not hear, I began as follows:

"Mr. Trevannion, I think it right to state to you that during my imprisonment a great change
has come over my feelings upon certain points. I am not ashamed to acknowledge that it has
been occasioned by the death which stared me in the face, and from my having seriously communed
with myself, and examined, more than I perhaps have done during the whole of my former life,
the sacred writings which are given us as our guide. The point to which I refer is, that I
have come to a conviction that privateering is not a lawful or honourable profession, and with
these feelings I should wish to resign the command of the schooner which you have had the kindness
to give me."

"Indeed, Elrington," replied Mr. Trevannion. "Well, I should not have thought to have heard
this from you I confess. Much as I respect your scruples, you are too scrupulous. I can hardly
imagine that you have turned to the sect of the Quakers, and think fighting is contrary to
the Scriptures."

"No, Sir, not so far as that. I consider war, as a profession, both necessary and honourable,
and a nation is bound to be prepared for any foreign attack, and to act upon the defensive,
or on the offensive, if it is necessary. It is not that. I do not consider the soldier who
fights for his country is not doing his duty, nor the seamen who are employed by the state
are not equally justified in their profession. What I refer to is privateering. That is, vessels
fitted out for the purpose of aggression by private merchants, and merely for the sake of profit.
They are not fitted out with any patriotic motives, but merely for gain. They are speculations
in which the lives of people on both sides are sacrificed for the sake of lucre--and had you
witnessed such scenes of bloodshed and cruelty as I have during my career, such dreadful passions
let loose, and defying all restraint, you would agree with me, that he who leads such miscreants
to their quarry has much to answer for. Were it possible to control the men on board of a privateer
as the men are controlled in the king's service, it might be more excusable; but manned as
privateers always will be, with the most reckless characters, when once they are roused by
opposition, stimulated by the sight of plunder, or drunken with victory, no power on earth
can restrain their barbarity and vengeance, and a captain of a privateer who attempted, would,
in most cases, if he stood between them and their will, unless he were supported, fall a victim
to his rashness. All this I have seen; and all I now express I have long felt, even when younger
and more thoughtless. You know that I did give up privateering at one time, because I was shocked
at the excesses to which I was a party. Since that, I have accepted the command of a vessel,
for the idea of being captain was too flattering to my vanity to permit me to refuse; but reflection
has again decided me not to engage in it further. I hope this communication will not displease
you, Mr. Trevannion. If I am wrong in my opinion, at all events I am sincere, for I am giving
up my only source of livelihood from a sense of duty."

"I know that you are sincere, Elrington," replied Mr. Trevannion, "but at the same time I think
that you are much too strait-laced in your opinions. When nations are at war, they mutually
do all the mischief that they can to each other, and I cannot see what difference there is
between my fitting out a privateer under the king's authority, or the king having vessels and
men for the national service. The government fit out all the vessels that they can, and when
their own funds are exhausted, they encourage individuals to employ their capital in adding
to the means of distressing the enemy. If I had property on the high seas, would it be respected
any more than other English property by the enemy? Certainly not; and, therefore, I am not
bound to respect theirs. The end of war is to obtain an honourable peace; and the more the
enemy is distressed, the sooner are you likely to obtain one. How much you have to also collect
but to satisfy him!

The Americans thought so before he Goethe sat next to.

His I drove like that of the great Walt, before the Flitt came [Footnote: Jean Paul's] adolescence,
scared above in all four brain ventricles and to the bottom in both chambers of the heart as
a mouse around in order to raise a tasty Ideenkoernchen, which he submitted could happen to him and
snack. He looked anxiously on the lips of the poet, so his word will be no, as the candidate on
the strict examiner, and he crumpled up his hat and glove tore a glazed in small pieces. But
what a hundredweight of stone from the heart might fall to him as the poet descended from his
heights to him and with him as Hans Kunz said, and in the pub. He said, namely with him on
the good weather in America, and by about the ratio of the winds on the air, the vapors of water-rich
in America to those in our old Europe spread, he showed us that the universe of science dawned
had him in for he was not just a lyric and epic poet, linguist and novelist, comedy and tragedy,
poet, biographer (his own) and translator - no, he was even meteorologist! Who can boast of
so deep into the mysterious realm of knowledge to be penetrated? Who
can say that his language, that is not his native dialect, but what
he would like to be straight and to talk with each value can fluently!

I think if I would have him as a traveling chef for listed, he would have learned with me in
discussions about a mysterious composition Gaenseleberpastete admitted to or after a Sekundenuhr
calculates how long you have to cook steak on each side one. So about the beautiful Weather in America
we speak, and lo - the Armesuendergesicht the American brightened, the
floodgates opened his eloquence - he described the fine, soft rain of Canada,
he had the Fruehlingsstuerme roar of New York and praised the umbrella factory
in the Franklin Street in Philadelphia.

It was my end, as would be no I in no Goethe, but in an inn in good old fellow, and it would
at bottle of beer over that of a weather talk at, so human, so cordial was
our discourse, but the is precisely the great mystery of the conversation
that you become accustomed to - not to speak well, but good to hear n. If
you have less educated time and space gives the talk, when this face
makes one, listen to it carefully as to his honey words, he will later
enthusiastically proclaim with that one at such and such a flavorful
talk.

This did the experienced poet and instead of us his wealth a mite leave of, he preferred to us
weather observation should be conducted with. After we ennuyiert might
have adequately him, he gave the signal to get up the chairs were
moved, Huete taken, and we sent us to make our Abschiedskomplimente.
The good man had no idea that he quote the devil, as he wished, generously,
also to see me in too, I said to him, and I will still keep its time
already, for truly I have not swallowed his Mephistopheles. Only one -
two bows, we left. Silent and still quite stupid admiration of the Americans
followed me to the inn, and the redness of the lively discourse was
still on his cheek, sometimes sneaked a smile approvingly at his mouth,
he seemed satisfied with hoechst On a visit to our room arrived. he
threw himself heroically in a chair and two champagne bottles let
apply.

The cork was driving with a fun shot to the ceiling, the American replied
to two glasses, offered me the one and pushed to the welfare of that great
poet.

"Is it not something pleasant," he said, "be found, Glorious Men are like like us? "I was uneasy
and anxious about a genius who wrote volumes of thirty, I must confess, at the storm that covered
us in the open sea, I was not afraid. And how condescending he was, as he has sensibly with us
diskuriert the joy he had in me as I came out of the new country! "He poured himself a hard working
and drank it on his and the poet's health, and the witnessed grace and a haze of sparkling wine,
he fell at last with the determination to America Goethe are to sleep
in her arms.

But I sat down with the rest of the bottles. This wine is from the earth of all drinks, which pleases
me most on his lighter, volatile spirit of the little earthly gravity with them leads like this
is making him worthy of spirits when they visit the earth in human
body, to be tasted .

I had to smile, when I looked at the happy Schlaefer, how easy it is for a great people, people
happy to make the other, and be allowed to submit only when they had him pretty much the same, and
they almost come from the mind. * * * * * THE FESTTAGE in purgatory.
A Sketch.

"The greatest happiness of the historian can, is that the dead do not protest against their views." World
and time. I. CHAPTER XVIII. Description of the festival. Odd as Satan gets to know three subjects.
I share here a section from my memoirs, which, though not for myself, which I recorded but, because
it was very interesting to me and perhaps others not without some
interest would like to be.

He leads the Inscription: "T he F esttagim egefeuer F" and came through
the following reason for this title. It is earth with all great lords
and potentates custom, their joy and their sorrow quite loudly and
clearly to commit to the.

If a princely blood emanating from the body of the dust is playing, Kuester, the hard work in the country,
for we will ring bells for many days. When a princess or even an heir born, has proclaimed terrible
cannonade that message. Paternal or landesmuetterliche birthdays are celebrated with all possible
splendor.

The citizen militias case back from the notables hold a feast, the evening's ball, or at least in
the Landstaedtchen biere dansante. In short, everything lives in dulci jubilo on those days.
G ross In order of my good mother to prove an honor, I thought it
already has for several centuries Sun In purgatory, where they habitually
resides, this day is always general in soul freedom.

The souls get this day over the body, they had the upper world on
their clothes, their customs, their manners.

What there is of nobility, deputations to kiss on the hand of the
ancients must send (in pleno can not be admitted, otherwise the procession
lasted several days).

Former court marshals, chamberlains, etc., have the great service
and appreciate it an honor to do the honors to lead the festivities
at the balls, which gave the evening to arrange tours to be satisfied
by these celebrations, etc. I have a twofold objective .

Once Mama feels chere Grande extremely flattered by this attention, secondly, I am considered among the
souls for a respectable man them a pleasure begrudge also, thirdly,
making this single day, joy and old habits spent in that the souls
afterwards to feel so unhappy that the whole purpose of such an institution,
such as purgatory is, suit.

On such a festive, I then go through the crowd dressed.

Sometimes you recognize me though, a thousand-"Long live the Lord
devil!

Vive le diable!" happy then my paternal heart, but I know well that it enforced is less, not as
a H ur ra in the upper world, because they think I push them more if they do not scream. In
my incognito, I then visit the different groups .

Tout comme chez vous, gentlemen, just a bit grotesque coffee companies, tea of all varieties, diplomatic,
military, theological, state economic, health clubs are, how natural instinct together by themselves
make a good day and lead amusing conversations that if I wanted to tell them of recent events and of
older time a cute shed light on some would. Once I stepped into a room of the Cafe de Londres
(because, by the way, it is this day all on a big foot and elegantly furnished hoechst) and I met
three young men, but their outward appearance and immediately my curiosity aroused by me if they should get
into conversation with each other, conversation seemed to promise not a little. I therefore
changed my clothes in the costume a nimble waiter and asked me the hall to serve. dominions to
two of these young people working in with a game of pool.

I marked them and looked at me while the third one. He was neglectful a spacious reclining in armchair,
his legs resting on a small chair in front of him standing, his left hand played neglectful with a riding
crop, his right arm supported the chin. A nice head! The face elongated and very pale. Forehead
high and free, with light brown hair surrounded the groomed, the nose, curved and pointed, made
of white wax shaped like, the lips too thin and pleasantly drawn the eye and bright, but habitually
cold and without any interest skimmed the blue slowly over belongings . All this and a fine
hat, close up than down, to one ear were pressured neglectful, a Englaender
suspect me. Its very delicate, dazzling white linen, the chosen,
very simple dress was a gentleman, and from the highest ranks and
belonging only.

I saw my list in, and found that it was Lord Robert Fotherhill.

He waved as I watched him as, eyes, probably because he too was uncomfortable
with the call. I hastened to him, turned, and at his command a large
glass of rum, a Havana cigar and a burning wax candle it before. The
other two gentlemen had, however, the game finished it and are approaching
the table at which the Englishmen sitting, and I threw a quick glance
in my list and learned that the one was a young Frenchman, Marquis
de Lasulot, the other a Garnmacher Baron, a German, the Frenchman
was. a small, stocky, nimble male o. His black hair and dickgelockte,
black whiskers were very pretty with a slightly burned skin, flushed
cheeks and moving, friendly black eyes, the full lips and the well-fed
chin is pulled in that beautiful, inimitable blue, which is so well
liked is Women of the , and Germany and by far less than in southern
countries is found in England, because here the dark beard, even earlier
to be thicker and usually as there.

Apparently one of the Chaussee d'Antin Incroyable! The elegant negligee, as down to the smallest detail,
the headstrong taste of Paris four months ago (so long would the
young man already be) wanted to have died out.

From the graceful carelessness tied with East Indian scarf, small
pale red scarf with a pin, a la Duc de Berry together, down to the
spats, which are buttoned to the inside for three days at that time,
except for the shoes to be as fashionable apply at the tips of the
big toe after incline and had to be completely without heels, I say,
except for those little things that the uninitiated insignificant
and miserable one, into the mysteries sufficiently introduced, the
important and indispensable one was released, he and according to
the latest taste for conscientious morning attracted to.

He seemed just now to his Jean the reins of his convertible hand
pressured in the whip of polished whalebone corner of the car leaning
to have in the little and now my Cafe flown in to be longer be seen
to see than to more talk to, listen too.

He lorgnettierte absconds the gentleman in the chair, looked at the immense glass
of rum and the smoke machine, the forward was that, to relieve a
little pressed to but none on the side of His Lordship and began to talk about:
"Be the ball evening visit today, my Lord, whom we are Monseigneur le diable?
If many women to be there, sir?" I ask, I ask you, because I have little
acquaintance here. "Sir may I offer my car, perhaps to both of us
hinzufuehren?

It is a very respectable thing, this car, I have the honor to assure you,
sir, he has me in front of four Latonnier months, eighteen hundred francs cost.
Sir, you do not need a servant them when I should have the honor to
accompany you, my Jean is a Wunderkerl of a servant. "So it went at a gallop
over the tongue of the Incroyable. His Lordship seemed by the way
not much to build it.

He looked fixedly at the Frenchman's first words in, then turned his head slightly to one in
order to free his right hand, seized with this - the first movement
for half an hour - the goblet, sipped some trains rum, smoking a cigar
in his comfortable, laid his head back on the right hand and the Frenchman
seemed more to the eye than the ear of listening to and in this way
also want to answer, for he answered not a syllable to the invitation
the loquacious Frenchman, and seemed, like his countryman Shakespeare
says, "double-gate" in front of his laid to have speech of teeth.

The German had during talks on the table approximated this, courteous
bow, made a chair and the Lord opposite took one.

It allows me, a little to see him. It was what is M ann to name usually gewichstenjungen Germany one
in a dandy, he had blonde, in the height of aspiring hair, at the lower end closed slightly to
a charming stump grayling, over the mouth hung a Stutzbaertchen, the ends were hinaufgewirbelt,
his face was good-natured, the eye was an expression of wisdom, as
well mounted on a light grobschattierten woodcut, no bad effect produced.

His dress like his manners, he seemed to have borrowed from various nations. His coat with many buttons
and strings, was of Polish origin, he was Russia's way on the chest
padded to four inches high, joined exciting about the hips and formed
the waist so slim, when a pretty Altenburgerin he also had to close
breeches, because he did not even rode as such were made of thin
Nanking manufactured only, for the same reason might also spur more
for ornament and a melodious, exciting to drive than walk a horse
serve attention.

A fine Italian straw hat completed the costume encroach . I see it in a way he takes the chair
and sits down at the same, whether he lived in many circles, where even the slightest movement laws of
decency and fine custom guided by the will, and the dandies sat passable , but not nearly with
that fine facility as the Frenchman, and the Englishmen showed itself in his careless, half sitting,
half lying position more dignity than that of the so well maintained kept, as it only ever teach
can dance master one. This comments on what I might have used far more words than
the readers of these memoirs NECESSARY seem to want, I made in a
moment, for we do not think that the young German I sat so long before
I had properly abkonterfeit him .

The Marquis turned immediately to his new neighbor. "My God, Lord of Garnmacher," he said, "want
to despair, I, the English gentleman seems to understand me, and I am his language a little strong to
with proper animation to lead conversation that, because I give my
Lord, there is something more boring than when three beautiful young
people sit together and no one understands the other?

"" On my honor, you are right, "replied the dandy in better French than I would have trusted
him," one can at a pinch think that a Turk playing billiards with a Spaniard, but I do not see how we can
chat circumstances with the Lord in this. "J'ai bien compris, Messieurs," said the Lord quietly next
to his cigar over, and took back some rum to him. "Is it possible, my lord?" cried the Frenchman
cheerfully, "that's very good that we can understand us! Markoe, bring
me sugar water! Oh, this is excellent, that we understand ourselves,
what a nice thing is there but to the message, even in a place like
this here.

"" Really, you're right, dear, "gave to the German," but we do not want to cooperate a little stroll
around to world to the beautiful patterns? I will give you beautiful ladies of Berlin, Vienna,
all kind of towns my country that I visited, I had great acquaintances and connexions above
and may hope to take some liquefaction ------ place this in which to know the luck I had, my lord
calls us Schoenen of London, and You, dear Marquis can us Paris in the small show here. "" God will
protect me, "said the Frenchman, eagerly, as he looked at the clock," now, at this early hour,
you want beautiful patterns the world? Do you think Sir, I have this detestable Purgatoire in good form so
all forgotten that I should now go walk on? "" Well, well, "said the dandy," I mean just in case
we knew better to do nothing. Are we not here as the three men in the fiery furnace? "Shall
we sing a hymn probably like that?

But, if you please, sir, we propose a pastime, I like to stay here."
"My God," said the Incroyable, "this is not such a decent cafe when
you have none in all of Germany? And we lack of entertainment? Can we not
talk as much as we want? tell yourself, my lord, is not it a good home,
one can Salon better wish this?

No, Monsieur le diable taste in such things, which you must leave him. "" Une maison confortable "
muttered my lord, and beckoned to the French approval. "Et ce salon confortable" "Good food, my lord?"
asked the Marquis, "now that will be there also, I think you can
eat well for the card?"

But, gentlemen, what you say if we are to entertain each other from our lives tell us wanted something?
"I hear like interesting adventure, and Baron Garnmacher which has
probably been through so many as my lord?

""

Goddam! that was a sensible idea, sir, "said the Englishmen, by the
whip on the table failed with the drawing down of the chair feet
and dignity of many in the armchair cope with continued, "another
glass of rum, Marko!"

"I agree with," said the German, "and make you my compliments about
your lucky thought, Lord of Lasulot .-- A bottle of Rhine wine, waiter!
- Who should start to tell?"

"I think we leave this the Los decide, "said Lord Fotherhill," and I'll bet five pounds, Marquis must begin.
""

Suppose, sir, "the Frenchman said with a pleasant smile," you make
the lots, Mr. Baron, and let us pull, Two to start number.

"Baron Garnmacher stood up and made lots are rightly, let draw, and the second number fell to him
I saw the French themselves to the Lord throw a major hint, as he clamped the left eye, with the
right to the Germans hinueberdeutete, I translated this hint to me like
this: "Please enter only eight, my lord, what our German may make honest
good. For we are both already through to the rank of our nations far raised
about him." Baron of Garnmacher but seemed to hint not to observe,
with great complacency, he drank a glass of Rhine wine, wiped in a hurry
the Stutz Bart the Rockaermel with and began. * * * * * CHAPTER XIX.
History of the German dandy.

"When my grandfather, the King-Emperor- - ""

Please, sir, "interrupted
the Incroyable," you spare us the Grandpapa and start right in to
your father, what was he?

"" Well, if you so dear is, but I I would have you in the splendor of our family stays longer, and
my father lived in Dresden on a rather large foot - "" What was he, the Lord forgive you
Dad? if I appear a little too curious, but history belongs to a precision "." My father, "continued
the dandy little sullenly away," was a wholesale clothing manufacturer - "" How, "asked the Lord,"
what's clothing manufacturer? Can Germany make clothes in factories
in? "

It was strange that this combat between two privateers should thus be decided upon the deck
of another vessel, but such was the fact. We had several men badly wounded, but not one killed.
The French were not quite so fortunate, as seven of their men lay dead upon the decks. The
prize proved to be the Antelope West-Indiaman, laden with sugar and rum, and of considerable
value. We gave her up to the captain and crew, who had afforded us such timely assistance,
and they were not a little pleased at being thus rescued from a French prison. The privateer
was named the Jean Bart, of twelve guns, and one hundred and fifteen men, some away in prizes.
She was a new vessel, and this her first cruise. As it required many men to man her, and we
had the prisoners to incumber us, I resolved that I would take her to Liverpool at once; and
six days afterwards we arrived there without further adventure. Philip's gallant conduct had
won him great favour with my officers and men, and I must say that I felt very proud of him.

As soon as we had anchored both vessels, I went on shore with Philip to Mr. Trevannion's, to
give him an account of what had occurred during the short cruise, and I hardly need say that
he was satisfied with the results, as we had made three recaptures of value besides a privateer.
I introduced Philip to him, acquainting him with his miraculous preservation, and Mr. Trevannion
very kindly invited him for the present to remain in his house. We then took our leave, promising
to be back by dinner-time, and I went with Philip to fit him out in a more creditable way;
and having made my purchases and given my orders (it being then almost two o'clock post meridiem),
we hastened to Mr. Trevannion's, that we might be in time for dinner. I was, I must confess,
anxious to see Miss Trevannion, for she had often occupied my thoughts during the cruise. She
met me with great friendliness and welcomed me back. Our dinner was very agreeable, and Philip's
sallies were much approved of. He was, indeed, a mirthful, witty lad, full of jest and humour,
and with a good presence withal. Mr. Trevannion being called out just as dinner was finished.
Miss Trevannion observed--

"I presume, Mr. Elrington, that your good fortune and the reputation you have acquired in so
short a time, have put an end to all your misgivings as to a privateer's-man's life?"

"I am not quite so light and inconstant, Miss Trevannion," replied I; "I rejoice that in this
cruise I have really nothing to lament or blush for, and trust at the same time we have been
serviceable to our country; but my opinion is the same, and I certainly wish that I had fought
under the king's pennant instead of on board of a privateer."

"You are, then, of the same mind, and intend to resign the command?"

"I do, Miss Trevannion, although I admit that this lad's welfare makes it more important than
ever that I should have some means of livelihood."

"I rejoice to hear you speak thus, Mr. Elrington, and I think my father's obligations to you
are such, that if he does not assist you, I should feel ashamed of him--but such I am certain
will not be the case. He will forward your views, whatever they may be, to the utmost of his
power--at the same time, I admit, from conversations I have had with him, that he will be mortified
at your resigning the command."

"And so shall I," said Philip, "for I do not agree with you or my brother: I see no more harm
in privateering than in any other fighting. I suppose, Miss Trevannion, you have been the cause
of my brother's scruples, and I tell you candidly to your face, that I do not thank you for it."

Miss Trevannion coloured up at this remark, and then replied, "I do not think, Mr. Philip,
that I have had the pleasure of seeing your brother more than three times in my life, and that
within these last six weeks, and sure I am that we have not had a quarter of an hour's conversation
altogether. It is, therefore, assuredly, too much to say that I am the cause, and your brother
will tell you that he expressed these opinions before I ever had had any conversation with him."

"That may be," replied Philip, "but you approved of his sentiments, and that concluded the
business, I am sure, and I don't wonder at it. I only hope that you won't ask me to do any
thing I do not wish to do; for I am sure that I could never refuse you any thing."

"I am glad to hear you say so, Mr. Philip; for if I see you do that which I think wrong, I
shall certainly try my influence over you," replied Miss Trevannion, smiling. "I really was
not aware that I had such power."

Here Mr. Trevannion came in again, and the conversation was changed; and shortly afterwards
Miss Trevannion left the room. Philip, who was tired of sitting while Mr. Trevannion and I
took our pipes, and who was anxious to see the town, also left us; and I then stated to Mr.
Trevannion that having now completed the cruise which I had agreed that I would, I wished to
know whether he had provided himself with another captain.

"As you appear so determined, my dear Elrington, I will only say that I am very sorry, and
will not urge the matter any longer. My daughter told me since your absence that she was certain
that you would adhere to your resolution; and, although I hoped the contrary, yet I have been
considering in which way I can serve you. It is not only my pleasure, but my duty so to do;
I have not forgotten, and never will forget, that you in all probability saved my life by your
self-devotion in the affair of the Jacobites. When you first came to me, you were recommended
as a good accountant, and, to a certain degree, a man of business; and, at all events, you
proved yourself well acquainted and apt at figures. Do you think that a situation on shore
would suit you?"

"I should endeavour to give satisfaction, Sir," I replied; "but I fear that I should have much
to learn."

"Of course you would; but I reply that you would soon learn. Now, Elrington, what I have to
say to you is this: I am getting old, and in a few years shall be past work; and I think I
should like you as an assistant for the present, and a successor hereafter. If you would like
to join me, you shall superintend the more active portion of the business; and I have no doubt
but that in a year or two you will be master of the whole. As you know, I have privateers and
I have merchant vessels, and I keep my storehouses. I have done well up to the present; not
so well, perhaps, now, as I did when I had slave-vessels, which were most profitable; but my
deceased wife persuaded me to give up that traffic, and I have not resumed it, in honour of
her memory. These foolish women should never interfere in such matters; but let that pass.
What I have to say is, that if you choose after a year to join me as a partner, I will give
you an eighth of the business, and as we continue I will make over a further share in proportion
to the profits; and I will make such arrangements as to enable you at my death to take the
whole concern upon favourable terms."

Mr. Trevannion knocked the ashes out of his pipe, and, as he concluded,--

"I am," I replied, "as you may imagine, Sir, much gratified and honoured at your proposal,
which I hardly need say that I willingly accept. I only hope you will make allowance for my
ignorance at first setting off, and not ascribe to any other cause my imperfections. You may
assure yourself that good-will shall never be wanting on my part, and I shall work day and
night, if required, to prove my gratitude for so kind an offer."

"Then, it is settled," said Mr. Trevannion; "but what are we to do with your brother Philip?"

"He thinks for himself, Sir, and does not agree with me on the question in point. Of course,
I have no right to insist that my scruples should be his; indeed, I fear that I should have
little chance in persuading him, as he is so fond of a life of adventure. It is natural in
one so young. Age will sober him."

"Then you have no objection to his going on board of a privateer?"

"I would rather that he was in any other service, Sir; but as I cannot control him, I must
submit, if he insist upon following that profession. He is a gallant, clever boy, and as soon
as I can, I will try to procure him a situation in a king's ship. At present he must go to
sea in some way or the other, and it were, perhaps, better that he should be in good hands
(such as Captain Levee's for instance) on board of a privateer, than mix up with those who
might demoralize him more."

"Well, then, he shall have his choice," replied Mr. Trevannion. "He is a smart lad, and will
do you credit wherever he may be."

"If I may take the liberty to advise, Sir," replied I, "I think you could not do better than
to give the command of the Sparrow-Hawk to the chief officer, Mr. James; he is a good seaman
and a brave man, and I have no doubt will acquit himself to your satisfaction."

"I was thinking the same; and as you recommend him, he shall take your place. Now, as all this
is settled, you may as well go on board and make known that you have resigned the command.
Tell Mr. James that he is to take your place. Bring your clothes on shore, and you will find
apartments ready for you on your return, for in future you will of course consider this house
as your residence. I assure you that, now that you do not leave me, I am almost glad that the
affair is arranged as it is. I wanted assistance, that is the fact, and I hold myself fortunate
that you are the party who has been selected. We shall meet in the evening."

Mr. Trevannion then went away in the direction of his daughter's room, instead of the counting-house
as usual, and I quitted the house. I did not go immediately down to the wharf to embark. I
wanted to have a short time for reflection, for I was much overpowered with Mr. Trevannion's
kindness, and the happy prospects before me. I walked out in the country for some distance,
deep in my own reflections, and I must say that Miss Trevannion was too often interfering with
my train of thought.

I had of course no fixed ideas, but I more than once was weighing in my mind whether I should
not make known to them who I was, and how superior in birth to what they imagined. After an
hour passed in building castles, I retraced my steps, passed through the town, and going down
to the wharf, waved my handkerchief for a boat, and was soon on board. I then summoned the
officers and men, told them that I had resigned the command of the vessel, and that in future
they were to consider Mr. James as their captain. I packed up my clothes, leaving many articles
for my successor which were no longer of any use to me, but which he would have been compelled
to replace.

Philip I found was down in the cabin, and with him I had a long conversation. He stated his
wish to remain at sea, saying that he preferred a privateer to a merchant vessel, and a king's
ship to a privateer. Not being old enough, or sufficient time at sea to be eligible for a king's
ship, I agreed that he should sail with Captain Levee, as soon as he came back from his cruise.
He had already sent in a good prize. As soon as my clothes and other articles were put into
the boat, I wished them all farewell, and was cheered by the men as I pulled on shore.

My effects were taken up to Mr. Trevannion's house by the seamen, to whom I gave a gratuity,
and I was met by Mr. Trevannion, who showed me into a large and well-furnished bed-room, which
he told me was in future to be considered as my own. I passed away the afternoon in arranging
my clothes, and did not go down to the parlour till supper-time, where I found Miss Trevannion,
who congratulated me upon my having changed my occupation to one more worthy of me. I made
a suitable reply, and we sat down to supper. Having described this first great event in my
life, I shall for the present conclude.

CHAPTER XIII.

    After staying a year with him, Mr. Trevannion proposes
    to take me into Partnership, but I decline the offer
    from conscientious motives--Miss Trevannion treats me
    with unmerited coldness--This and her Father's anger
    make me resolve to quit the House--What I overhear and
    see before my departure--The Ring.

You may now behold me in a very different position, my dear Madam; instead of the laced hat
and hanger at my side, imagine me in a plain suit of gray with black buttons, and a pen behind
my ear; instead of walking the deck and balancing to the motion of the vessel, I am now perched
immoveably upon a high stool; instead of sweeping the horizon with my telescope, or watching
the straining and bending of the spars aloft, I am now with my eyes incessantly fixed upon
the ledger or day-book, absorbed in calculation. You may inquire how I liked the change. At
first, I must confess, not over much, and, notwithstanding my dislike to the life of a privateer's-man,
I often sighed heavily, and wished that I were an officer in the king's service. The change
from a life of activity to one of sedentary habits was too sudden, and I often found myself,
with my eyes still fixed upon the figures before me, absorbed in a sort of castle-building
reverie, in which I was boarding or chasing the enemy, handling my cutlass, and sometimes so
moved by my imagination as to brandish my arm over my head, when an exclamation of surprise
from one of the clerks would remind me of my folly, and, angry with myself, I would once more
resume my pen. But after a time I had more command over myself, and could sit steadily at my
work. Mr. Trevannion had often observed how absent I was, and it was a source of amusement
to him; when we met at dinner, his daughter would say: "So, I hear you had another sea-fight
this morning, Mr. Elrington;" and her father would laugh heartily as he gave a description
of my ridiculous conduct.

I very soon, with the kind assistance of Mr. Trevannion, became master of my work, and gave
him satisfaction. My chief employment consisted in writing the letters to correspondents. At
first I only copied Mr. Trevannion's letters in his private letter-book; but as I became aware
of the nature of the correspondence, and what was necessary to be detailed, I then made a rough
copy of the letters, and submitted them to Mr. Trevannion for his approval. At first there
were a few alterations made, afterwards I wrote them fairly out, and almost invariably they
gave satisfaction, or if any thing was added, it was in a postscript. Mr. Trevannion's affairs,
I found, were much more extensive than I had imagined. He had the two privateers, two vessels
on the coast of Africa trading for ivory and gold-dust and other articles, two or three vessels
employed in trading to Virginia for tobacco and other produce, and some smaller vessels engaged
in the Newfoundland fisheries, which, when they had taken in their cargo, ran to the Mediterranean
to dispose of it, and returned with Mediterranean produce to Liverpool. That he was a very
wealthy man, independent of his large stakes upon the seas, was certain. He had lent much money
to the guild of Liverpool, and had some tenanted properties in the county; but of them I knew
nothing, except from the payment of the rents. What surprised me much was, that a man of Mr.
Trevannion's wealth, having but one child to provide for, should not retire from business--and
I once made the remark to his daughter. Her reply was: "I thought as you do once, but now I
think differently. When I have been on a visit with my father, and he has stayed away for several
weeks, you have no idea how restless and uneasy he has become from want of occupation. It has
become his habit, and habit is second nature. It is not from a wish to accumulate that he continues
at the counting-house, but because he cannot be happy without employment. I, therefore, do
not any longer persuade him to leave off, as I am convinced that it would be persuading him
to be unhappy. Until you came, I think the fatigue was too great for him; but you have, as
he apprizes me, relieved him of the heaviest portion of the labour, and I hardly need say that
I am rejoiced that you have so done."

"It certainly is not that he requires to make money, Miss Trevannion; and, as he is so liberal
in every thing, I must credit what you assert, that it is the dislike to having no employment
which induces him to continue in business. It has not yet become such a habit in me," continued
I, smiling; "I think I could leave it off with great pleasure."

"But is not that because you have not yet recovered from your former habits, which were so
at variance with a quiet and a sedentary life?" replied she.

"I fear it is so," said I, "and, I believe, of all habits, those of a vagrant are the most
difficult to overcome. You used to laugh at me the first few months that I was here. I presume
that I am a little improved, as I have not been attacked lately?"

"My father says so, and is much pleased with you, Mr. Elrington, if my telling you so gives
you any satisfaction."

"Certainly it does, because I wish to please him."

"And me, too, I hope?"

"Yes, most truly, Miss Trevannion; I only wish I had it in my power to show how much I study
your good opinion."

"Will you risk my father's displeasure for it?" replied she, looking at me fixedly.

"Yes, I will, provided--"

"Oh! there is a proviso already."

"I grant that there should not have been any, as I am sure that you would not ask me to do
any thing which is wrong. And my proviso was, that I did not undertake what my conscience did
not approve."

"Your proviso was good, Mr. Elrington, for when a woman would persuade, a man should be particularly
guarded that he is not led into error by a rash promise. I think, however, that we are both
agreed upon the point. I will therefore, come at once to what I wish you to do. It is the intention
of my father, in the course of a few days, when you shall have accomplished your year of service,
to offer to take you into partnership; and I am certain it will be on liberal terms. Now I
wish you to refuse his offer unless he gives up privateering."

"I will do so at all risks, and I am truly glad that I have your encouragement for taking such
a bold step."

"I tell you frankly that he will be very indignant. There is an excitement about the privateering
which has become almost necessary to him, and he cares little about the remainder of his speculations.
He is so blind to the immorality to which it leads, that he does not think it is an unlawful
pursuit; if he did, I am sure that he would abandon it. All my persuasion has been useless."

"And if a favourite and only daughter cannot prevail, what chance have I, Miss Trevannion?"

"A better chance, Mr. Elrington; he is partial to me, but I am a woman, and he looks upon my
observations as a woman's weakness. The objections raised by a man, a young man, and one who
has so long been actively engaged in the service, will, therefore, carry more weight; besides,
he has now become so accustomed to you, and has had so much trouble taken off his hands, and,
at the same time, has such implicit confidence in you, that I do not think, if he finds that
he has to choose between your leaving him and his leaving off privateering, he will hesitate
in relinquishing the latter. You have, moreover, great weight with him, Mr. Elrington; my father
is fully aware of the deep obligation he is under to your courage and self-devotion in the
affair of the Jacobite refugees. You will, therefore, succeed, if you are firm; and, if you
do succeed, you will have my gratitude, if that is of any importance to you; my friendship
you know you have already."

The entrance of Mr. Trevannion prevented my reply. We had been waiting for his return from
a walk, and dinner had been ready some time. "I have just seen some of the men of the Arrow,"
said Mr. Trevannion, taking off his hat and spencer, "and that detained me."

"Has Captain Levee arrived, then, Sir?" said I.

"No; but he has sent in a prize--of no great value--laden with light wares. The men in charge
tell me he has had a rough affair with a vessel armed en flute, and that he has lost some men.
Your brother Philip, as usual, is wounded."

I should here observe, that during the year which had passed away, the two privateers had been
several times in port--they had met with moderate success, barely sufficient to pay their expenses;
my brother Philip had always conducted himself very gallantly, and had been twice wounded in
different engagements.

"Well, Sir," replied I, "I do not think that the loss of a little blood will do any harm to
such a hot-headed youth as Master Philip; but I hope in a short time to give him an opportunity
of shedding it in the service of the king, instead of in the pursuit of money. Indeed," continued
I, as I sat down to table, "the enemy are now so cautious, or have so few vessels on the high
seas, that I fear your privateering account current will not be very favourable, when balanced,
as it will be in a few days, notwithstanding this cargo of wares just arrived."

"Then we must hope better for next year," replied Mr. Trevannion. "Amy, my dear, have you been
out to-day?"

"Yes, Sir; I was riding for two hours."

"Have they altered your pillion yet?"

"Yes, Sir; it came home last night, and it is now very comfortable."

"I called at Mrs. Carleton's, who is much better. What a fop that Mr. Carleton is--I don't
know what scented powder he uses, but it perfumed the whole room. Had not Mrs. Carleton been
such an invalid, I should have opened the window."

Mr. Trevannion then turned the conversation to some political intelligence which he had just
received, and this engaged us till the dinner was over, and I returned to the counting-house,
where I found the men who had brought in the prize, and who gave me a letter from Philip, stating
that his wound was of no consequence.

The communication of Mr. Trevannion took place, as his daughter had assured me it would, on
the anniversary of my entering into Mr. Trevannion's counting-house. After dinner, as we, as
usual, were smoking our pipes, Mr. Trevannion said: "Elrington, you have been with me now one
year, and during that time you have made yourself fully master of your business; much to my
surprise, I acknowledge, but still more to my satisfaction. That I have every reason to be
satisfied with you, you may imagine, when I tell you that it is now my intention to take you
into partnership, and I trust by my so doing that you will soon be an independent man. You
know the capital in the business as well as I do. I did say an eighth, but I now propose to
make over to you one-fourth, and to allow your profits of every year (deducting your necessary
expenses) to be invested in the business, until you have acquired a right to one-half. Of future
arrangements we will speak hereafter."

"Mr. Trevannion," replied I, "that I am truly grateful for such unexpected liberality, I hardly
need say, and you have my best thanks for your noble offer; but I have scruples which, I must
confess, I cannot get over."

"Scruples!" exclaimed Mr. Trevannion, laying down his pipe on the table. "Oh! I see now," continued
he after a pause; "you think I am robbing my daughter. No, no, the labourer is worthy of his
hire, and she will have more than sufficient. You carry your conscientiousness too far, my
dear fellow; I have more than enough for Amy, out of the business altogether."

"I am aware of that, Sir," added I, "and I did not, therefore, refer to your daughter when
I said that I had scruples. I must be candid with you, Sir. How is it that I am now in your
employ?"

"Why, because you had a dislike to privateering, and I had a debt of gratitude to pay."

"Exactly, Sir; but whether you had been pleased to employ me or not, I had made up my mind,
as you well know, from conscientious motives, not to continue on board of a privateer."

"Well, I grant that."

"The same motives, Sir, will not allow me to be a sharer in the profits arising from such sources.
I should consider myself equally wrong if I did so, as if I remained on board. Do not be angry
with me, Sir," continued I; "if I, with many thanks, decline your offer of being your partner;
I will faithfully serve you upon any salary which you may consider I may merit, and trust to
your liberality in every thing."

Mr. Trevannion made no reply; he had resumed his pipe, and continued to smoke it, with his
eyes fixed upon the mantelpiece. As soon as his pipe was out, he rose, put on his hat, and
walked out of the room, without making any further observation. I waited a few minutes, and
then went back to the counting-house.

That Mr. Trevannion was seriously offended, I was convinced; but I valued the good opinion
of his daughter more than I did that of Mr. Trevannion; indeed, my feelings towards her had,
during the year that I had been in the house, gradually become of that nature that they threatened
much my peace of mind. I cannot say that I loved her in the usual acceptation of the term,
adoration would better express what I felt. She was so pure, so perfect, such a model of female
perfection, that I looked up to her with a reverence which almost quelled any feeling of love.
I felt that she was above me, and that, with her wealth, it would be madness for one in my
present position to aspire to her. Yet with this feeling I would have sacrificed all my hopes
and present advantages to have obtained her approving smile. It is not, therefore, to be wondered
at that I risked Mr. Trevannion's displeasure to gain her approbation; and when I resumed my
seat at my desk, and thought of what had passed, I made up my mind to be once more an outcast
in the world rather than swerve from the promise which I had made to her. I knew Mr. Trevannion
to be a very decided man, and hasty when offended. That he was seriously offended with me there
was no doubt. I found that he had quitted the house immediately after he had left the room.
I had hoped that he had gone to his daughter's apartments, and that a conversation with her
might have produced a good effect; but such was not the case.

In about half an hour Mr. Trevannion returned, and as he walked into the back room adjoining
the counting-house, he desired me to follow him; I did so: "Mr. Elrington," said he, sitting
down, and leaving me standing at the table, "I fear, after what has passed that we shall not
continue on good terms. You have reproached me, an old man, with carrying on an unlawful business;
in short, in raising your own scruples and talking of your own conscience, you have implied
that I am acting contrary to what conscience should dictate. In short, you have told me, by
implication, that I am not an honest man. You have thrown back in my face my liberal offer.
My wish to oblige you has been treated not only with indifference, but I may add with contumely;
and that merely because you have formed some absurd notions of right and wrong in which you
will find no one to agree with you, except, perhaps, priests and women. I wish you well, Mr.
Elrington, nevertheless. I am truly sorry for your infatuation, and wished to have served you,
but you will not be assisted by me."

Here Mr. Trevannion paused, but I made no reply. After a time, wiping the perspiration from
his forehead with his handkerchief, for he evidently was in a state of great excitement he
continued:

"As you do not choose to join me from conscientious scruples, I cannot but imagine that you
do not like to serve me from similar motives, for I see little difference between the two (and
here, Madam, there was some force in his observation, but it never occurred to me before);
at all events, without weighing your scruples so exactly as to know how far they may or may
not extend, I feel that we are not likely to go on pleasantly together. I shall always think
that I am reproached by you when any thing is said connected with the privateers--and you may
have twinges of conscience which may be disagreeable to you. Let us, therefore, part quietly.
For your services up to the present, and to assist you in any other engagements you may enter
on, take this--"

Mr. Trevannion opened a lower drawer of the table, and put before me a bag containing, as I
afterwards discovered, 250 gold jacobuses.

"I wish you well, Mr. Elrington, but I sincerely wish that we had never met."

Mr. Trevannion then rose abruptly, and, before I could make any reply, brushed past me, went
out at the door, and again walked away at a rapid pace down the street. I remained where I
stood; my eyes had followed him as he went away. I was completely surprised. I anticipated
much anger, much altercation; but I never had an idea that he would be so unjust as to throw
off in this way one who for his sake had gone through a heavy trial and come out with honour.
My heart was full of bitterness. I felt that Mr. Trevannion had treated me with harshness and
ingratitude.

"Alas!" thought I, "such is the world, and such will ever be the case with such imperfect beings
as we are. How vain to expect any thing like consistency, much less perfection, in our erring
natures. Hurt but the self-love of a man, wound his vanity, and all obligations are forgotten."

I turned away from the bag of money, which I was resolved not to accept, although I had not
at the time twenty guineas at my own disposal. It was now within half an hour of dark; I collected
all my books, put some in the iron safe, others as usual in my desk, and having arranged every
thing as completely as I could, I locked the safe, and inclosed the keys in a parcel, which
I sealed. Putting Mr. Trevannion's name on the outside, I laid the parcel on the table in the
room where we had had our conference, by the side of the bag of money.

It was now dark, or nearly so, and leaving the confidential porter, as usual, to shut up the
house, I went up to the sitting-room with the expectation of seeing Miss Trevannion, and bidding
her farewell. I was not disappointed; I found her at her netting, having just lighted the lamp
which hung over the table.

"Miss Trevannion," said I, advancing respectfully towards her, "I have fulfilled my promise,
and I have received my reward"--she looked up at me--"which is, I am dismissed from this house
and your presence for ever."

"I trust," said she, after a pause, "that you have not exceeded my wishes. It appears to me
so strange, that I must think that such is the case. My father never could have dismissed you
in this way for merely expressing an opinion, Mr. Elrington. You must have gone too far."

"Miss Trevannion, when you meet your father, you can then ascertain whether I have been guilty
of intemperance or rudeness, or a proper want of respect in making the communication--which
I did in exactly the manner you yourself proposed, and my reward has been such as I state."

"You have a better reward, Mr. Elrington, if what you assert is really correct. You have the
reward of having done your duty; but I cannot imagine that your dismissal has arisen from the
mere expression of an opinion. You'll excuse me, Mr. Elrington, that as a daughter, I cannot,
in justice to a much respected father, believe that such is the case."

This was said in so cold a manner, that I was nettled to the highest degree. Miss Trevannion
had promised me her gratitude, instead of which I felt that she was doubting my word, and,
as it were, taking the side of her father against me. And this was the return from her. I could
have upbraided her, and told her what I felt; namely, that she had taken advantage of my feelings
towards her to make me a cat's-paw to obtain her end with her father; and that now, having
failed, I was left to my fate, without even commiseration; but she looked so calm, so grave,
and so beautiful, that I could not do it. I commanded my wounded feelings, and replied:

"Since I have the misfortune to meet the displeasure of the daughter as well as of the father,
Miss Trevannion, I have not another word to say, but farewell, and may you prosper."

My voice faltered as I said the last words, and, bowing to her, I quitted the room. Miss Trevannion
did not even say farewell to me, but I thought that her lips appeared to move, as quitting
the room I took my last look upon her beautiful face. I shut the door after me, and, overpowered
by my feelings, I sank upon a settee in the ante-room, in a state of giddy stupor. I know not
how long I remained there, for my head turned and my senses reeled; but I was aroused from
it by the heavy tread of Mr. Trevannion, who came along the corridor without a light, and not
perceiving me, opened the door of the sitting-room where his daughter still remained. He threw
the door too after he had entered, but it did not quite close, leaving a narrow stream of light
through the ante-room.

"Father," said Miss Trevannion in my hearing, "you look warm and excited."

"I have reason so to be," replied Mr. Trevannion, abruptly.

"I have heard from Mr. Elrington the cause of it," replied Miss Trevannion; "that is, I have
heard his version of it. I am glad that you have come back, as I am most anxious to hear yours.
What has Mr. Elrington said or done to cause such irritation and his dismissal?"

"He has behaved with insolence and ingratitude," replied Mr. Trevannion; "I offered him partnership,
and he refused, unless I would give up privateering."

"So he stated; but in what manner was he insolent to you?"

"Insolent!--told me that he acted from conscientious motives, which was as much as to say that
I did not."

"Was his language very offensive?"

"No, not his language--that was respectful enough; but it was the very respect which made it
insolent. Either she has obtained the Satan and his eight-seat car in his eternal kingdom gehaudert in,
or he has sent me the April. The latter seemed more likely.

In Worms, but I met a pious clergyman, the cathedral was made to the. I told him the case before me and was
told I was measuring about it read, many as if the manuscript contains
arc. The Council did not seem amiss.

I went into my home and sent on the next Sunday, the first Satan
arch in the church.

Probatum est, and on Monday I began to decipher and I have not the
slightest Absolute and neither the paper nor I noticed on.

From my colleagues in Mainz, however, I have heard little more. The professor continues, discoveries
in chemistry by its gleaming, and I'm afraid he is on the way, to
give ear to Satan, who wants to make B a erzelius him.

The captain is said to have shot himself, wife of Things, however, the beautiful widow, a display
in the Hamburg correspondents not long since married again after. * * * * * THE STUDY OF SATAN
TO THE FAMOUS UNIVERSITY ...... EN. "deceiver deceived! your rings are not all three great! the
real ring was probably lost." Lessing, Nathan. III. 7th chapter five. Introductory remarks. All
the world reads or writes memoir at this time, in the salons of the
big and small residences, and the resources and casinos Mittelstaedt,
in the tabagi and bars of the small talk of memoirs judges, according
to memoirs and tells to memoirs, yes, it could seem, was for years
nothing more remarkable in the world than their twelve memoirs. men
and women take it up the pen to show the people writing that they
also lived in a strange time, that it once in Sonnennaehe moves have
one themselves, which otherwise might inconsistency person an aura
of importance given them.

Crowned heads not content to its former grandeur, where, as in the
picture booklet, with the crown on her head to bed, went from raised
to have, not satisfied with the fact that they courier travel Europe
from one end to the other to fly through to each other to insure their
friendship, writing memoirs for their peoples, tell them their fortunes,
their trips.

The contemporary world has been made for posterity, one has her a
new standard that they judge the actions, given in the hands, these
are the memoirs.

Great generals, famous marshals, far from imitating the example of that Roemer, who in the leisure the
deeds of the legions under his leadership worthy of posterity to
continue this tradition of peace, believed that if he only ever from
the third person shall say to have taken the modest way, speaking
of himself, as befits men of such weight as I build, from her memoirs
one Odeon in reduced scale, and enter heartily front of the stage on.

With Schlachtstuecken on a large scale, they decorate the scenes,
statesmen and famous women, the great army and its laurel-crowned
eagle, the whole world around them are in the background figurants
than they play their own but Sulla or Brutus, worthy of the immortal
Talma.

Mundus vult decipiens, that is, people read memoirs, from what holds
me, the same also such a court "welcomed as" vorzusetzen?

You turn a maybe: "The cobbler stick to his last, Satan did not write
memoirs to leave. "Ei! really? And if this Satan but professional
would have one, memoirs world to spread to, if he so much more seen
would have, or at least as those military diplomats or diplomatic warrior,
what a world with its literary glory fill the after the bulletins of their
victories to have ceased to mention, what if this poor devil did
feel an urge to be in, even for a homo literatus apply to?

Yes, I confess to blushing, the longer me in my wanderings I love Germany, the more irresistible
it pulls me back to writers; and if the women is allowed, with ink to dirty fingers, it will still
be allowed but the devil, too? And this brings me to another point, one
may say against my literary attempts, I was not a literatus, not
a man from the companies & c. For now, I have just the ladies who,
if they have so learned, no scholar by profession are yet to mention
had the honor, then I appeal to those sons of the camp, the dangers
become large, under strain in gray, no had time to study humanities,
and so gleaming write memoirs yet, I assert, thirdly, that the prejudice
that I was a unstudierter devil, is quite wrong, for I am optima forma
doctor of philosophy became in, as can be seen from my memoirs, and
diploma, the black and white have to.

The Archangel Gabriel, when I saw him with the plan, memoirs draw mean made known, warned me with a thoughtful
expression before the so-called reviewers. He gave me to understand that I could get away
unlearnedly by such spare no one, even now even doctors of theology in Berlin, Halle and Leipzig
have taken hard. I replied, not without learning that the adage "clericus clericum non Decimate" is
also my relationship to the reviewer to be applied justly can, will I already in the Old Testament
S atan yes, adversarius, the adversary is called, which fit quite
well on those, but I take the most striking evidence from the New
Testament, where I will diabolos or detractors called, as much as
now diaballein acerbe recense, so he should beat if he had only a
little logic, by itself can draw the conclusion.

The archangel was, as of course, not a little respect for my learning
in language and thought itself, that I'm not missing this kind of
ability. One is reading through these messages from my memoirs, maybe not
that systematic, peaceful progression of speech found in the works,
deep-thinking minds be so accustomed to the self. It is and longer
fragments from my workings and goings on the earth are shorter and the inner
context missing. We do not blame me for it, for he was intent not mine,
this time to design a painting, you find enough of them in all solid
bookshops in Germany.

The memoir writer has a purpose achieved when he and his position at the time which he belongs
is, and about it reflects when he developed events that of him or his contemporaries close
or distant relationship have either, if he's contemporaries and his
relationships with them to the eye presents famous.

And these demands, I think my memoirs met in too have and are there
at least that in my work led me to the audacity of me justify my,
in an honored public writer to act as. [footnote: What the devil seriously
and taught speaks, he behaves almost like a young candidate theology,
his first sermon print it! n. the publisher.] On personality, about
famous descent or relationship, the gleaming devil nothing to say.

What could be about to say about it, I have the "visiting Goethe pronounced
in and therefore refer the reader there.

Diligent readers ds those who bow for bow in a quarter of fly over, may therefore not skip this section
because he is a better understanding of the others set up very much; modest
and ordinary readers, I have nothing to say about this as: they are
to put away the book when they bored. * * * * * Before his servant with
the second arc of the show comes back, nor has the undersigned time einzuflicken
some comments.

It seems to him namely, Satan possesses a considerable dose of vanity, they only say how important
he speaks of that section, in which he makes remarks about some, it would be enough, would have
been if he only hinted that this or that is to was found, but to
recommend to the reader, he would like but a section, which are included
in those, not the selection bar is very arrogant.

Then
the disorder, in which he makes everything! Another, such as the editor, would have but, if not with
the birth certificate, what now of course the devil is probably not possible, at least, the incident
started, the chronology of the first is for. I have leafed through the manuscript transient
(read before each arch dedicated sufficiently I am probably in eight), and found that he prefixed
by events, which all belong to the new time, and afterwards in the colorful mixtures of people
and their deeds, ten of twenty years can occur, one can see well that he had no good school must
have. For greater clarity, and that, gentle reader, despite the hell can choose what he wants,
I have provided the contents of each chapter.

T he H ublisher r. * * * * * CHAPTER VI. As the University of Satan and what
involves the acquaintances he makes there. Germany has always been particularly
pleasing to me of, and I confess that it is a less selfish basis
of this confession, one believes namely there of me as the gospel,
those bold philosophical daredevils, the risk on that I'm taking to
deny and existence me at ridiculous phantom made have a mean, is it
still has not met these lucky children sense this to destroy the people
in whose unclouded imagination I still black as a Moor, with horns
and claws, and tail with goat-footed survive for as their ancestors
have known me.

If other nations are so-called Enlightenment, as far hinaufgeschraubt by that, I of a God,
even to be silent no longer believe in hell, so take care here among
this people, even my traditional enemies, the theologians to it that
I stay in prestige.

Hand in hand with belief in the divinity of walks in them the belief in me, and how often I have
to me so sweet heard the word from their mouths: "Anathema, sit erglaubtankeinen T eu fe l.
I" can therefore be quite annoyed me, I earlier on the rational thoughts come'm not currently
on a university to spend my free to see there how I was systematically mistreated semester to semester
of. the way I could still benefit from many things. All the world is now civilized, refined, civilized,
well read, taught.

Many times when I make imaginary good cut one, it was found that to me a good school bag, a little
philosophy, ancient literature, and even some medicine lacks even,
but as magnetizing came up, I did a course at Messmer taken even after
photos some glueckliche Health made.

But that is not now done, so the miserable expressions, which Germany are circulating
in: eindummer T eufel, Narmer T eufel ei, einunwissender T eufel what
on neglected science education point to my manifest.

It is still a scholar from the sky like no, and I've fallen from heaven, but not as taught, so
I decided that I wanted to study philosophy and perhaps as much to
bring it in, that I would invent an entirely new system, of which
I promised no little success.

I chose - ---- s, and pulled in the fall of 1819 on there. I had, as you can imagine, not failed me
accorded pursuant to my new costume.

My name was on B arbe, circumstances my shiny, which means that I brought a big change with,
had a lot of cash money, good clothes and kept myself well, as a newcomer, or, as they say,
act as a fox, but I had already studied all sides, I looked around in the world. No wonder I had the first evening
of polite interest, the next morning trusted friends and brothers
on the second evening of life and death had on the arm.

You may think I exaggerate, I would be cavalier, I would honor to represent
and "Bring me the Devil" as Verstaerkungspartikel to share (because "On
my honor" and "Bring me the Devil" behave to each other as the Spiritus
lenis Spiritus asper to), in my situation I can only give my slogan
as Satan.

    They were good boys, I found there . It happened, but
    this is as follows: One can imagine that I was not
    unprepared; German universities who remotely knows, knows that one
of language, customs, dress and way of thinking from the world entirely
different people living there.

I read Lord of the immortal works of lard over the universities,
Aktenstuecke Sands, Principal about fraternities and country teams
& c., was right but still not understand it and realized that I still
lacked some things.

The accident helped me out of trouble I took in F. Retourchaise one, my partner was an old student,
who eight years to put the medicine since.

He had the savoir vivre of an old fellow, and I am eager for the six hours that I gave him the Muses
town supply with my role to study him.

It was a large, well-grown man of four to twenty-five years, his hair was dark and did earlier
method tailored its present for, but it hung because the Studiosus costs shunned it clipped to mess
around the head, but he tried to such often fingers from the forehead to style with five. His
face was beautiful, especially the nose and mouth and finely finely
shaped, the eyes had an expression, but what a strange impression
made it a lot!

The face of the sun started reddish brown, and a large beard proliferated
from the temple to his chin, and around his lips hung one from the
beer reddened Henriquatre.

His facial expression was awful and ridiculous at the same time, the eyebrows were drawn together
and formed somber folds the eyes looked sternly and proudly around him and measured every thought
with a majesty, a dignity, Koenig son worthy involved had been one. On the lower parts of the
face, especially about the chin, I could not wisely be right, for they were deeply in the tie.
This piece of clothing the young man seemed to have paid to care far more
than the rest of the suit, these shoes casually half-height measured binding
of a black silk pulled without throwing a wrinkle, from the chin
to the sternum included exclusive, and formed in this way a fine masonry,
on which the head rested: his dress was a yellowish-white coat he
baize, in affectionate moments probably Gottfried called also, and
what he dishes and drinks informed of and this Gottfried baize reached
to a margin over the knee and joined tightly around the whole body,
on his chest, he was open and showed the tie to see so much let that
Mr. Hans with linen provided must be clearly not. vastness, waves
beating trousers of black velvet joined in.

The upper dress, the boots were formed neatly and served enormous
spurs of polished iron to the film.

On his head was the Scholar little piece of red cloth in the form of an inverted flower ceramic
body hanged one, which he had the wind to balance knew of many art and it looked funny out, almost
as if one small drinking glass, a large cabbage head cover was one
with.

I had Zachariae immortal swaggerers well studied in order to not know that as soon as I got A nakedness
against the Lord's brother there, his respect for me before lost forever had, and I noticed him,
therefore his eyebrow wrinkles, his serious, measure the eye, as far as it went off and had the pleasure,
he had me right after the first hour of striking against the "Philistines
and the Florbesen," in German, an old Professor and his daughter,
who Remaining tour group made up our distinguished.

In the second hour I had already confessed to him that I studied in Kiel and I've already beaten
several times with luck, and before we ------ s imports after, He
had promised a "fixed bar," which means for a decent apartment, ascertain,
people like me to get under it.

The
Lord Studiosus strangler, it was said my companion, let the city
stop at a tavern before and invited me to follow his example and here
complaints from the trip a glass to drink on.

The whole row of windows of the inn was red and black caps covered
with, it was namely good number of men Studiosi gathered here one
to the new comers, who habitually on beginning of the semester used
to arrive to receive after the usual manner.

Shrike, the old, "Length mossy" boy, had been tickled with the way
the thought that his comrades are foxes "hold" would be for, and actually
met a presumption of his.

A Chorus of at least thirty basses sounded from the windows down; they
sang a famous song that begins: "What is there from the Hoeh '?" during
the singing of the majestic companion got out my chaise, and he had
scarcely touched the ground, he raised his head and yelled terrible
the windows up to: "What do you propose for Randal to one, camels Look!
ye not that two old houses Philistines increased carts come from this?"
(In German: Rants but not so much, gentlemen, you see, that two old students
get off the wagon.) The general jubilation broke the heated speaker.
"Shrike!

You fides old house!" shouted the Musensoehne and crashed down the stairs in his arms, forgetting
the smokers, putting aside their long pipes, the billiard players were still queues in their hand.
They formed a guard of armed stranger to the new arrivals.
 There is some excuse for ignorant seamen
before the mast, who enter on board of privateers: they are indifferent to blood and carnage,
and their feelings are blunted--there is some excuse even for decayed gentlemen like me, Mr.
Trevannion (for I am a gentleman born), who, to obtain a maintenance without labour, risk their
lives and shed their blood; but there is no excuse for those who, having already as much wealth
and more than they can require, still furnish the means and equip vessels of this description
to commit the destruction which they do, for the sake of gain. There is a sermon, Sir, for
you from a captain of a privateer, and I now wish you good morning.' I then got up, and, making
a profound bow, I quitted the room before Mr. Trevannion made any reply, and here I am. Now
all we have to do is to wait quietly, and see what takes place; but first, I shall go on board
the Arrow, and let them know that I have quarrelled with the owner. The men are not very well
pleased as it is with their want of success these two last voyages, and it will require but
little to blow up the discontent into a mutiny. Come, Philip, I shall want you to assist me.
We shall be back to dinner, Elrington."

When I was again alone, I had time to consider what had passed. What I chiefly dwelt upon was
the interview between Philip and Miss Trevannion--her message to me--her hesitation--and keeping
the ring. I could not help surmising that our feelings towards each other were reciprocal,
and this idea gave me infinite delight, and repaid me for all that had passed. Then my brother's
hasty declaration to her father, that we were better born and bred than he was, would certainly
be repeated by him to his daughter, and must make an impression. And what would Mr. Trevannion
do? Would he give way to the unanimous opinion against him? I feared not, at least without
another struggle. All these questions occupied my thoughts till the return of Captain Levee
and Philip from the privateer. They had well managed their business. The crew of the Arrow
had come to an unanimous resolution that they would not sail with any other captain but Captain
Levee; and that if he did resign the command of the vessel, as soon as their wages were paid,
and they received their share of prize-money, they would leave, and enter into the king's service.

That afternoon Mr. Trevannion sent for the officer next in command, to give him the command
of the vessel; but as he went over the side, the men expecting that he was sent for, for that
purpose, told him that they would serve under no one but Captain Levee, and that he might acquaint
the owner with their determination. This put the finishing blow to Mr. Trevannion. As soon
as this was communicated to him, he was wild with rage in being thus thwarted in every way.
As I afterwards was informed, he went even to his daughter, acquainted her with all that had
passed, and gave vent to his indignation, accusing her of being a party in the conspiracy.
But this was to be his last effort: the excitement had been too great, and after dinner he
felt so unwell that he went to bed. The next morning he was in a raging fever, and at times
delirious. The fever was so violent that the doctors had much to do to reduce it, and for ten
days Mr. Trevannion was in great danger. At last it was got under, leaving him in a state of
great weakness and exhaustion, and his recovery was any thing but rapid. Humphrey, the porter,
had brought us this intelligence; as now there was no one to transact the business of the house,
and the poor fellow did not know what to do, I desired him to apply to Miss Trevannion for
directions, and told him that, although I would not enter the house, I would, if she wished
it, see to the more important concerns which could not be neglected. She was then attending
her father, and sent me a message, requesting, as a favour to her, that I would assist all
I could in the dilemma. I consequently sent for the books, and gave orders, and made the necessary
arrangements as I had done before I had been dismissed by Mr. Trevannion.

It was nearly five weeks before Mr. Trevannion had sufficiently recovered to mention any thing
about business to him, and then it was that he learnt from his daughter that I had carried
it on for him during his illness, and that every thing had gone on as well as if he had acted
for himself. Although Miss Trevannion had not expressed a wish that I should call, she had
sent Humphrey for my brother Philip, to let us know the dangerous state in which her father
was, and after that Philip called every day, and was the bearer of messages to me. As her father
recovered, she told Philip that he had expressed himself very strongly as to his conduct towards
me, and had acknowledged that I was right in my scruples, and that he was astonished that he
had not viewed privateering in the same light that I did. That he felt very grateful for my
considerate and kind conduct in conducting the business during his illness, and that as soon
as he was well enough he would call upon me, to beg my pardon for his conduct towards me. Miss
Trevannion also told him that her father had said that he considered his illness a judgment
upon him, and a warning to open his eyes to his sacrifice of principle to the desire of gain,
and that he received it accordingly with humility and thankfulness; that it was his intention
to offer the privateer vessels to government, and if they did not hire them, he should dispose
of them in some other way. This was very agreeable intelligence, and was the source of much
conversation between Captain Levee and me.

About a fortnight afterwards, Mr. Trevannion, who was still weak, sent me a billet, in which
he said that he was afraid that his anxiety to see me and his being still confined to his room,
rather retarded his recovery, and begged as a favour that I would accept his acknowledgment
in writing, and come to see him. That I consented to do, and repaired to his house accordingly.
I found him in his room, sitting in his dressing-gown, and he had evidently suffered much.

"Mr. Elrington," said he, "I trust to your excellent nature to accept my apologies for the
very unjust treatment you have received at my hands. I am ashamed of myself, and I can say
no more."

"I beg, Mr. Trevannion, that you will say no more; I accept the return of your friendship with
pleasure," replied I; "I am sorry that you have been so ill."

"I am not," replied he; "it is good for us to be chastised at times. My sickness has opened
my eyes, and made me, I trust, a better man. May I ask a favour of you?"

"Most certainly, Sir," replied I.

"It is that you will execute a commission for me, which is to go to London on my account, see
the government people who control the naval affairs, and offer the Arrow as a hired vessel.
You know all her qualities so well, and have kept her accounts so long, that you will be able
to furnish them with all necessary information. I should wish Captain Levee to go with you,
and, if you possibly can, make it a condition that he is taken into the king's service, and
appointed the captain of her."

"I will do so with pleasure," replied I.

"One more favour I have to beg, Mr. Elrington. When I so foolishly quarrelled with you, you
left a bag of money, to which you were fully entitled from your good services, upon the table
in the inner room. I trust now that you will not mortify me by refusing it, or I shall think
that you have not really forgiven me."

I bowed assent.

"I thank you, Mr. Elrington--thank you very much. Now I shall soon get well. To-morrow, perhaps,
you will have the kindness to come and see me again. I feel rather overcome at present. Remember
me kindly to Philip. Good-bye for to-day," said Mr. Trevannion, holding out his emaciated hand.
"God bless you."

I took his hand and quitted the room, shutting the door softly. Mr. Trevannion was quite alone
when I was with him. Humphrey, the porter, had shown me up-stairs to the room.

Anxious as I was to see Miss Trevannion, I did not venture into the sitting-room, but passed
the door and went down-stairs; when I was going out of the street door, Humphrey followed me,
and said Miss Trevannion wished to see me. I went back again with a beating heart, a sensation
I had not felt before, when about to go into her presence. She was standing by the table.

"Mr. Elrington," said she, as I bowed upon entering, "I did not think that you could carry
your resentment against me so far as to leave the house without asking to see me; but if you
do not wish to see me, 'tis a duty I owe to myself to wish to see you, if only for a moment,
that I may beg your pardon for my conduct towards you when we last parted. I have suffered
much since that, Mr. Elrington; do not make me suffer more by continuing your resentment. Recollect
I am but a weak woman, and must not be judged so severely as one of your own sex."

"I have nothing to pardon that I am aware of, Miss Trevannion," replied I; "I did not intrude
upon you just now, because being no longer an inmate of the house, and not having parted with
you in complete amity, I thought it would be presumptuous in me so to do."

"You are very generous, Mr. Elrington," replied she; "now take my hand, and I promise never
to be so hasty again."

I took the proffered hand, and raised it respectfully to my lips. I had never done so before;
but Miss Trevannion showed no signs of displeasure, or attempt to withdraw it.

"Do you think my father looks very ill, Mr. Elrington?" said she.

"From his appearance, I think that he must have suffered much."

"I am most thankful that you have come to see him, Mr. Elrington. You have no idea how his
mind was troubled, and how he longed to be reconciled to you. I trust he has made his peace."

"I have always had too much respect for your father, and gratitude for his kindness to me,
to have made that a work of difficulty."

"You rejoice me much--make me very happy, Mr. Elrington," replied Miss Trevannion, as the tears
dropped fast from her eyes. "You must excuse me," said she; "I have become very weak and nervous
during my father's illness--and sitting up with him so much,--but it is over now."

"You have had much anxiety, I see, Miss Trevannion; you are pale and thin to what you were."

"Did my father--? but I have no right to ask such questions."

"You would inquire, Miss Trevannion, whether any thing was said as to future arrangements?"

Miss Trevannion made a sign of assent.

"I have promised to execute a commission for him, and am going to London, accompanied by Captain
Levee."

"To get rid of those wretched privateers, is it not?"

"Yes, it is, and I am to come to-morrow to arrange further; but I think you want to return
to your father's room, so I will now take my leave."

"You are considerate, Mr. Elrington; I did want to go up-stairs; but before I go I have some
property of yours to place in your hands."

I bowed, thinking that she referred to the ring, which I perceived on her finger, and was annoyed
that she was in such haste to return it. But, on the contrary, she went to the buffet and brought
out the bag of gold jacobuses, which she laid on the table.

"You are very proud, Mr. Elrington, not to take what was fairly your due," said Miss Trevannion,
smiling.

"It is much more than I have ever earned," replied I; "but your father made me promise not
to refuse it a second time, and of course I shall now take it."

My heart was much lightened when I found that it was the gold, and not the ring.

"Then good-bye, Mr. Elrington; to-morrow I shall see you, of course."

Miss Trevannion then left the room and hastened up-stairs to her father, and I went home to
my lodgings. I narrated the substance of what had passed between Mr. Trevannion and me to Captain
Levee and Philip, and also that I had been kindly received by Miss Trevannion.

"Well, I like the reconciliation and arrangement very much," said Captain Levee; "and as you
have such a bag of gold, and I have not fifty guineas in the world, you shall stand treat in
London, Elrington."

"That I will, with pleasure; it will only be discharging an old debt, Levee. Philip shall go
with us."

"But," said Captain Levee, "do you not think they will recognize their state prisoner, and
be cautious of a Jacobite?"

"They may remember the name," said I, "but my person was seen but by few. I do, however, think
it would be advisable, as I shall have to sign papers, to take another."

"I think so, too," replied Captain Levee; "what shall we call you?"

"Let me see; I'll have a good name. I had a relative of the name of Musgrave; I think I will
borrow his name. What say you, Philip. Will you be for the future Philip Musgrave?"

"Yes, brother, with all my heart. The name appears to fit me better than that of Elrington."

Thus, Madam, did I resume my real name without any suspicion on the part of Captain Levee;
but I could not well sign government papers with an assumed one.

On the following day I called upon Mr. Trevannion, who received me with great affection, and
it was arranged that I should set off in three days, which time would be required for preparation,
and to make the necessary purchases. To supply funds for the journey, Mr. Trevannion gave me
another bag of jacobuses, of the same amount as the former, saying that he wished us to appear
bravely when we arrived in London, and that he should require no account of the expenditure,
only that if the contents of the bag were not sufficient, he would supply more. This was nothing
more but an excuse on his part to be generous; for one quarter of the money would have been
sufficient for all needful expenses. I told him that I had taken the name of Musgrave, as that
of Elrington might be remembered to the injury of the proposal, and he said that it was well
thought of by me. Miss Trevannion had entered the room when I mentioned that to her father,
and afterwards had quitted it. After I had taken leave of Mr. Trevannion, I went down to the
sitting-room, where I found his daughter waiting for me. We had much friendly discourse, and
at one time she said, "I heard you say that you had taken the name of Musgrave for your intended
journey. Do you intend to retain that name when you return?"

"Why should I?" replied I.

"Because," replied she, "perhaps it is your real name. Excuse a lady's curiosity, but is not
that the fact?"

"Miss Trevannion," replied I, "my real name must at present remain a secret."

"That is to say, it will no longer be a secret if intrusted to me? I thank you, Sir, for the
compliment."

"I do not intend to imply that, Miss Trevannion; I fully believe that you can keep a secret."

"If you fully believe so, you might, then, reply to my question; the more so, as I now pledge
myself to keep your secret most faithfully."

"Then, Miss Trevannion, my real name is Musgrave," replied I.

"I thank you for your confidence, Mr. Musgrave, which shall not be misplaced. I might now follow
up my inquiries as to why you changed your name, with many other queries; but I am too discreet
for that--the time may come when I shall know all; but I am content with your proof of confidence,
and thank you for it."

Miss Trevannion never was so lively and communicative with me before, as she was this morning;
there was a friendliness without any of her usual reserve, and I left her more full of admiration
and devotion than ever.

In three days more our preparations were made, and taking leave of Miss Trevannion and her
father, who was recovering, and had admitted company to his room, we set off on horseback,
as we had done before, and attended by the same two men of Captain Levee's who had served us
on a former journey to London. We had no adventure whatever on this journey which could be
worth narrating, and I shall therefore say that we arrived in good health and spirits, and
took up our abode at once at our former lodging-house, instead of going to the inn. We were
welcomed by the hostess, who had her house almost empty. The following day I made inquiries,
and, in consequence, went to the Navy Office, and requesting to see one of the head clerks,
informed him of the occasion of my coming up to London. He was very civil, and replied that
the government were in want of vessels, and he had no doubt but they would have the Arrow,
as she was well known as a strong privateer. I then inquired whether they thought it likely
that Captain Levee might be taken into the service, stating what an excellent crew the Arrow
had, and that they would not remain in her, unless they were commanded, by him, in whom they
had great confidence.

The clerk replied that it might be done certainly,--"but," added he--"Sir, you cannot expect
people to do such kind offices without they are rewarded."

I perfectly understood him, and replied, that, of course, I did not expect it; but I was so
ignorant as to what ought to be done, that I begged that he would give me his advice, for which
I should be most grateful.

"Well, well, you understand me, Mr. Musgrave, and that is sufficient. I will be plain with
you. It will cost 100 guineas to obtain what you want for Captain Levee, and of that money
I shall not receive a doit."

"I shall be most happy to give that sum and half as much more, to obtain my wish, Sir, and
shall feel much obliged to you in the bargain; and while I am negotiating, I may as well state
that I have a brother who sails with Captain Levee, who is most anxious to be with him, and
sail as his lieutenant." 

You could imagine how difficult woman from the separation from her husband
suffered had young the.

But they did not understand why the daughter she now only rarely
and briefly, wrote to her, the mother, the best of feeling was it yet
and the long ago had asked exact circumstances of the abduction of her
son to report to it.

The daughter excused herself by saying that it will be very attacking, terrible day of their lives to
tell about this, but Dr. Stegemann was no longer with this decision
satisfied.

When it was winter and the same poor, sad letters kept coming, she wrote the daughter, unless she and the children
are healthy, they may them in Gebhards Christmas holidays at her get by. It sounded more like
a request, as such a request or invitation.

Helene showed the letter to her siblings.

"You could have your mother long to tell all the facts," said the
brother, "she as a mother can expect that it concealed nothing of
her son's destiny of."

"But she can not just be awful! us at the start of the war has fervent patriotism
written in full. And then - I do not dare tell her how it all came
about, she will despise me, because it is such a brave, strong woman!

"The in-law interrupted her:" You always torture yourself unnecessarily
again with allegations.

Every woman would like you asked her and her children for life "" Do not! " said Helene determined.
The brother became angry. He was always a little jealous, and had never been quite able to tolerate
that his beloved sister so highly of the family Stegemann had one.

"You're not to blame," he said, "a man must know himself what he has to do and it would be without
your objection as well everything went, "But now Helen got excited."

No, no, certainly not. I myself no longer understand why I would rather not have my child die with:
death is not the worst "She burst into tears. The brother tried to calm her. "You need your mother
not to tell what you have spoken of the matter at.

In you speak it!" "Oh, I can not, when she and her clear eyes looking at me, I must tell the whole truth.
It would it right but remember that I have something of the soul
is on.

"" Oh, stay here! " advised in-law.

"Send her Gebhard alone, say, you might receive with the baby in winter travel and the child does not
go without.

While it would be with me and the girl well supplied, but it's a
good excuse, promise your visit for spring, then we'll see.

"" Yes, this is the best part, "said the brother," they can winter travel and to such an excitement
not you require and Gebhard is very much like his grandmother to
go with his dog, na- -he may very well stay there if they wish.

"" He will not like to separate want from me! "" That you imagine, so he is not. "" You think
so? "

Thoughtfully added, "Yes, it may be that he does not miss me.

Things are not as bad as it was. But then we will be very strange," "You must at your daughter
hold you, that is all nice days, and belongs to you entirely. "But the young mother could not
immediately comforted with the thought that her favorite little remained. It hurt her to think, Gebhard
will not miss. She was still proud to have been so on the boy's love
and his touching devotion.

"I myself will Gebhard host the invitation of the grandmother," said the brother advice, the conclusion.
"Do you rest a little, and then write to your mother. Gebhard is her well-supplied with and for
you it is best to be like that, not you think?"

"I do not know," said Helen, "but I want it so how to make you think,
I thank you, you are so indulgent to me.

    
    
    "She went into her room and did as they advised her, lay on her couch.

Oh, they meant so well with her, but she had not got any idea how sad she was, how hot her longing
for the lost happiness.

Mr. Short had understood well, the journey to her grandmother's tempting
to represent Gebhard.

The fact that he probably should stay with her permanently, he had mentioned anything that had plenty
of time. So the uncle was right. Gebhard was just pleased with the invitation
for the Christmas holidays, was not thinking of separating from the mother.
It was natural that the child was happy grandmother to come to the
years of loneliness in faithfully every lodge in the summer had come
and stand near him long before Helen was part of the family.

Today, the mother went up with him in his room to pack
with him. Cheerfully he handed to her what she wanted, attention Leo
pursued this unusual activity.
 And now I
want to consult with you about something else. Here is a letter from Captain Irving, of the
Amy, brought home by the Chester Lass."

These were two vessels employed on the Gold Coast, which belonged to Mr. Trevannion.

"Read it," said Mr. Trevannion, "and give me your opinion."

I did so: Captain Irving stated that he had pushed the two vessels up a small river on the
coast, which he had not known of before, and had fallen in with a black ruler, who had never
yet treated with the English; but only with the Spaniards, for slaves. That his English commodities
were quite new to the natives, and that, in consequence, he had made a most fortunate traffic
with them, and had loaded a vessel with ivory, wax, and gold-dust to the amount of 1,000 pounds,
and that he had sent the Chester Lass, remaining himself, to continue the barter before it
was known to the other ships on the coast, which it would soon be. He continued, that he had
not sufficient of the articles which were most valued by the natives, and requested that Mr.
Trevannion would immediately despatch another vessel with various goods enumerated, and that
then he should be able to fill his own vessel as well as the one that he had despatched home;
that the river was in such a latitude, and the mouth difficult to discover; that he sent a
little sketch of the coast, which would facilitate the discovery--but that no time was to be
lost, as the sickly season was coming on, and it was very unhealthy at that time.

As I folded up the letter, Mr. Trevannion said,

"Now, here is an invoice of the whole cargo sent home by the Chester Lass. I reckon it worth
about 7,000l."

I looked over the invoice, and agreed with Mr. Trevannion, that it was well worth that, if
not more.

"This is most important, you will acknowledge, Musgrave," said Mr. Trevannion; "but before
I go any further, I trust that, now the only difficulty is got over, you will not refuse to
be my partner; the only difference I intend to make is, that I now offer you one-fourth instead
of one-eighth. Silence gives consent," continued Mr. Trevannion, as I did not immediately reply.

"I was so astonished at your munificent offer, Sir, that I could not well speak."

"Then it's agreed; so say no more about it," said Mr. Trevannion, taking me by the hand, and
pressing it warmly--"and now to business. My idea is, to sent out the Sparrow-Hawk, being so
fast a sailer. Of course, as a privateer, she has done her work; and as the government wish
the complement of the Arrow to be increased, I think we cannot do better than to fill her up
with some of the Sparrow-Hawk's men, leaving about twenty-five on board of her, and sending
her out as soon as possible to the coast, with the articles which Captain Irving requests."

"I agree with you, Sir, that it will be the best plan."

"But whom to send is the difficulty," said Mr. Trevannion. "Captain Paul, of the Chester Lass,
is very ill, and not likely to be out of bed for some time; and even if he were well, I have
no opinion of him in an affair of this moment. If, as Captain Irving says, he can fill the
Amy, her cargo will be worth three times that of the Chester Lass; but, of course, the destination
of the Sparrow-Hawk must be a secret, and I do not know whom to intrust her to. We require
some one in whom we can put confidence."

"I agree with you, Sir," replied I; "and, if you have no objection, I think that the best plan
will be for me to go myself; I shall be back again in ten weeks at the furthest."

"Well, as you will now have a strong interest in it, I really think so too. In fact, I don't
know whom else we can trust."

"I agree with you, Sir, and I will go myself, and I think the sooner the better; but I do not
know whether we can obtain all the goods requisite immediately."

"We can have them in five or six days," replied Mr. Trevannion; "I sent Humphrey out to make
inquiry."

"At all events, I must look to them myself; and there are many other things to manage, so I
had better wish you a good morning now, Mr. Trevannion, and in the evening I will call again,
and let you know what I have done."

"Do so," said he, and I then took my leave.

I certainly was very much astonished as well as much pleased at Mr. Trevannion's liberality
relative to the partnership, and I could now look forward to competency in a few years at the
furthest. Certainly, if Mr. Trevannion had been hasty in his conduct towards me, he had made
most noble reparation. I first returned to the lodgings and told Captain Levee and Philip what
had passed; they immediately proposed that we should all go together on board the Sparrow-Hawk,
that I might make my arrangements, and that they might persuade some of the men to join the
Arrow. I first picked out the men I wished to sail with me; and then they talked over the rest,
who that evening went on shore for their wages, and the next morning joined the Arrow, as Captain
Levee was anxious to get round to the Nore. The day after the men joined, the Arrow sailed,
which I was not sorry for, as it left me more at leisure to expedite my own affairs. Philip
promised to be my correspondent, and I bade them both farewell with regret. I called in the
evening, as I had promised, upon Mr. Trevannion, and he then gave me the deed of partnership,
signed and dated the day when he first made the offer, and we had quarrelled; but I did not
see Miss Trevannion; much to my regret, her father said that she was ailing. The business I
had to transact, and fitting out the Sparrow-Hawk, so completely occupied me, that it was now
three days that I had been at Liverpool without having seen her, and I was much annoyed at
it, as I had called every day. My feelings towards her were now stronger than before. She was
never out of my thoughts, and I hardly know how it was that I transacted business as I did.
This evening I was determined, if possible, that I would see her, and find out why she avoided
me, as it appeared to me that she did. When I called, therefore, I did not ask to see her father,
but told Humphrey to find out where Miss Trevannion was, and say that I requested to speak
with her. Humphrey returned, and said that she was in the sitting-room, to which I instantly
repaired.

"I am fearful, that I have given you some unintentional cause of displeasure, Miss Trevannion,"
said I, as I entered, "for you have appeared to avoid me since my return."

"Indeed, Mr. Musgrave, I have not," replied she; "I was most anxious to see you, and have thought
it very unpolite, I may add, unkind, on your part not to have come to me."

"I have been in the house every day, and sometimes twice a-day, with your father, Miss Trevannion,
and have never met you. Once I inquired for you, and your father told me you were unwell, whereas
Humphrey had but five minutes before told me that you were well and in good spirits."

"Humphrey told the truth, and so did my father. I was in good health and spirits, and in five
minutes afterwards I was ill and unhappy."

"I trust I was no party to it, Miss Trevannion."

"You were a party to it, but not the great offender, who was my father. He had told me that
upon your return he had installed you as his partner, and had done you the justice you had
deserved; and then he told me that you were going out to the coast of Africa in the Sparrow-Hawk."

"It is very true, Miss Trevannion; but where is the offence?"

"The offence is this: my father no sooner does you justice than he wants more ivory and gold-dust,
having more than enough already; but I told him it was as bad as privateering, for in either
case he sends people out to sacrifice their lives, that he may gain more money. I have no patience
with this foolish pursuit of wealth."

"After all your father's kindness to me, Miss Trevannion, I could do no less than accept the
offer."

"You would have been more wise and more just to yourself to have refused it, Mr. Musgrave.
I read the letters to my father when they arrived, and you know what Captain Irving says about
the unhealthiness of the climate. You have been my father's best friend, and he should not
have treated you thus."

"I never did value life, Miss Trevannion; but really the kind interest you have expressed on
this occasion makes me feel as if my poor life was of some value. To one who has been such
a football of fortune as I have been, and who has hardly, known a kind feeling towards him
ever expressed, it is a gratification that I really appreciate, and coming from one whom I
respect and esteem more than any other person in the world, it quite overpowers me. Indeed,
Miss Trevannion, I am truly grateful."

I was correct when I said that it overpowered me, for it did completely, and I was so oppressed
by my feelings, that I reeled to a chair, and covered up my face with my hands. What would
I have given to have dared to state what I felt!

"You are ill, Mr. Musgrave," said Miss Trevannion, coming to me. "Can I offer you any thing?"

I made no reply; I could not speak.

"Mr. Musgrave," said Miss Trevannion, taking my hand, "you frighten me. What is the matter?
Shall I call Humphrey?"

I felt her hand tremble in mine, and, uncertain what to think, I came to the resolution to
make the avowal.

"Miss Trevannion," said I, after a pause, and rising from my chair, "I feel that this internal
conflict is too great for me, and if it lasts it must kill me. I give you my honour that I
have for months tried every thing in my power to curb my desires and to persuade myself of
my folly and rash ambition, but I cannot do so any longer. It were better that I knew my fate
at once, even if my sentence should be my death. You will ridicule my folly, be surprised at
my presumption, and, in all probability, spurn me for the avowal, but make it I must. Miss
Trevannion, I have dared--to love you; I have but one excuse to offer, which is, that I have
been more than a year in your company, and it is impossible for any one not to love one so
pure, so beautiful, and so good. I would have postponed this avowal till I was able to resume
my position in society, by the means which industry might have afforded me; but my departure
upon this business, and the kind of presentiment which I have, that I may not see you again,
has forced it from me. In a few days I leave you--be gentle with me for my involuntary offence--pity
me while you condemn, and I will return no more."

Miss Trevannion did not reply; she breathed quick, and stood motionless. I gathered courage;
I looked in her face, there was no displeasure--I approached her, she was half-fainting, and
put her hand upon my shoulder to steady herself. I put my arm round her waist; and led her
to the sofa, and knelt at her feet, watching every change in her beautiful countenance. I took
her hand and pressed it to my lips; by degrees I became more bold, and got by her side, and
pressed her to my heart. She burst into tears, and wept with her head on my bosom.

"Do not be angry with me," said I, after a time.

"Do I appear as if I was angry with you?" replied she, raising her head.

"Oh, no; but I cannot believe my happiness to be real. It must be a dream."

"What is life but a dream?" replied she mournfully. "Oh, the coast of Africa! How I dread it!"

And so I confess did I from that moment; I had a presentiment, as I had told her, that something
would go wrong, and I could not get over the feeling.

I shall no longer dwell upon what took place on that delightful evening, Madam; suffice to
say, that Miss Trevannion and I were mutually pledged, and, after an exchange of thought and
feeling, we parted, and when we did part I pressed those dear lips to mine. I went home reeling
with excitement, and hastened to bed, that I might have unrestrained freedom of thought. I
enacted the scene of the evening over and over again; recalled each motion, each look, every
word which had passed, and, defying fever and presentiment of evil, imagined also our happy
meeting to part no more. It was long before I could compose myself to sleep, and when I did,
I need not say who it was who occupied my dreams. I called as soon as I could venture so to
do on the following day, and had a long interview with my dear Amy. Before I went up to her
father, I tried to soothe her anxiety upon my approaching voyage, and to persuade her that
there was little or no danger to be apprehended in so short a stay. Willingly would I have
given it up, but Mr. Trevannion had so set his mind upon it, and I had, by my consent, rendered
it so impossible for him to find a substitute in time, that I could not do so, and I persuaded
Miss Trevannion that I was right in acting to my promise. One question that came forward was,
whether we should make known our engagement to her father at once, and this was decided in
the negative. Much as he liked me, he was not yet prepared to receive me so suddenly as a son-in-law,
and Amy was of opinion that the communication had better be postponed. To this, of course,
I gave a willing assent. I was satisfied with the knowledge of her affection, which I felt
would never change. As I was talking with her father, after my interview with Amy, he said:

"Really, Elrington, or Musgrave, I hardly know which to call you."

"Musgrave is my real name, Sir," replied I.

"Musgrave--Musgrave--where did I know a Musgrave?"

"We are from the north," replied I.

"Well," said he, "I was going to say, that I really wish I could find some one else to take
your place in this voyage, for I do not much like your going."

"Do, my dear father," said Miss Trevannion, who was standing by him.

"Hey! Miss Amy, what have you to do with it, I should like to know, and how can it concern
you whether Mr. Musgrave goes or not?"

"I said so, Sir, because I know how you will feel his loss for so long a period. You know how
you did feel his loss before, and I do not wish to see you working so hard, as you will have
to do it without his assistance."

"Well, that's kindly thought, Amy, at all events; but still I fear that Mr. Musgrave must go,
and I must work by myself till he comes back; so it's no use saying any more about it."

Amy sighed and made no reply. On the third day after this interview, every thing was ready,
and on the following morning I was to sail. Mr. Trevannion had so many directions to give,
and kept me so wholly with him, that I could hardly find time to speak to his daughter. However,
it was agreed that as I was to sail at daylight, that she would see me after her father had
gone to bed. Our meeting took place--need I say that it was a tender one. We renewed our vows
over and over again, and it was not till past midnight that I tore myself away. Old Humphrey
looked very knowingly at me when he let me out of the street-door. I slipped a guinea in his
hand and wished him good-bye. I hastened on board of the Sparrow-Hawk, and desiring to be called
before daylight, went down into the cabin. There I remained sitting at the table, and thinking
of Amy so long, that when the mate came down to wake me, he found that I was still sitting
there, having never been to bed during the whole of the night.

I started from my reverie and hastened on deck to get the schooner under weigh. It was soon
done, although we were, comparatively speaking, short-handed. There was a fine breeze, and
lightened as she now was, the little vessel flew through the water. Liverpool was soon out
of sight, and we were dashing down the Irish Channel.

"She sails well, now," said I to the second mate, a very clever man, and much better educated
than most seamen, for he could navigate, as well as being a first-rate seaman.

"Yes, Sir," replied Olivarez, "she walks fast. She is not too deep now," replied he; "what
a slaver she would make."

This man was not an Englishman, but a Brazilian Portuguese by birth, although he had long been
out of his country. Having set her course, I went down below, that I might indulge in my castle-building
more at my ease. The wind increased to a gale, but as it was from the northward, and bore us
to our destination, it was welcomed. We soon crossed the Bay of Biscay, and were in more genial
latitudes; and, after a rapid run of about four weeks, I found myself nearly in the latitude
given to us of the river where the Amy was at anchor. I then hauled in for the shore, which
was very low, and required being approached with caution. We saw some towering palmtrees at
sunset, and then we hove to; the next day we again stood in, and having ascertained our exact
latitude at noon, we found ourselves about four miles to the northward of the river's mouth.
We shaped a course, and in two hours I made out the marks given for our guidance in the rough
sketch of Captain Irving, and thus satisfied that I was right, ran directly for the mouth of
the river. Captain Irving was correct in saying it was difficult, for it was not until we were
within a mile that we could find any opening; but at last we did, and at the same time perceived
the mast of two vessels at some distance up the river. We stood in, and found that there was
no bar at the river mouth, which was a very unusual circumstance on this coast. The soundings
were gradual, and in an hour afterwards we anchored between the Amy and a fine schooner under
British colours. Captain Irving recognized the Sparrow-Hawk, and immediately came on board.
After the usual salutations, he told me that his vessel was half-laden, but that he waited
for the articles he had sent for to enable him to complete his cargo. I told him that I had
them on board, and he should have them as soon as he sent his boats. He stated that no vessels,
except those engaged in the slave-trade, had ever come into this river, and that they only
brought the cloth and other articles usual in the trade; but that his assorted cargo had astonished
the people, and they were wild to possess things which they had never before seen. They had
offered slaves in quantities, but finding that he would not take them in exchange, they had
now brought down ivory and gold-dust. He told me how glad he was that I had come, as the river
was very sickly, and was becoming more and more so every day; that out of twelve men he had
already four down with fever.

I inquired of him what that vessel was on the other side of us. He replied it was a Liverpool
slave-trader, and that the captain appeared to be a very good sort of man; that he never indulged
in liquor, nor was given to profane language.

A few minutes afterwards the captain of the slaver came on board to pay his respects, and I
asked him down in the cabin, and gave him beer and cheese, the two greatest luxuries in those
climes. He appeared, as Captain Irving stated, a very quiet, well-behaved, serious person,
which I was rather surprised at. When we repaired on deck, I observed, as the vessel was close
to us, that there were two very large dogs on board, who, at the sight of the captain, bayed
furiously. He told me that they were Cuba bloodhounds, and that he never went on shore without
them, as they were the most faithful and courageous animals, and he considered that he was
safer with them than with half a dozen armed men. Shortly afterwards Captain Irving and he
both took leave. As there were still some hours of daylight, Captain Irving sent his boats
for the goods, and after that, as the evening fell, I went down below, as Captain Irving requested
I would do, and by no means remain on deck after sun-down, as it was extremely unhealthy.

On the following day Captain Irving went on shore with his goods and trafficked most favourably.
Indeed, as we afterwards found out, he had procured in exchange more ivory than his vessel
would hold, besides much gold-dust. The day after I went on shore with Captain Irving to call
upon the king, as he called himself. He was seated in front of a hut made of palmetto leaves,
with a lace coat on, but no other garment whatever, so that he made a curious appearance. After
a little conversation, I went away, and hearing that the slaver was taking her cargo on board,
about a hundred yards further up, I walked in that direction. The slaves were brought down
in about twenty at a time, all of them fastened by the neck to a long bamboo pole, which confined
them all together. One string of them had been sent down and put in the boat, and another was
standing ready for embarkation; when as I cast my eyes over them and commiserated their misery,
I observed a female whom I thought I had seen before. I looked again, and behold! is was Whyna,
the princess who had been so kind to me in my captivity. I went up to her and touched her on
the shoulder. She turned round, as well as the lashing to the pole would permit her, and on
seeing me gave a faint scream. Without ceremony I took out my knife and released her, and led
her away. She fell down at my feet and kissed them. The black man who had charge of the delivery
of the slaves was very angry, and ran up to me, brandishing his long stick; but the captain
of the schooner, who was on shore, and who had witnessed what I had done, saluted him with
a kick in the stomach, which made him quiet enough. In few words I told the captain of the
slaver that I was once in captivity, and this woman had befriended me, requesting him to name
his price and I would willingly pay it.

"It's not worth mentioning, Sir," replied he; "women are as cheap as dirt; take her and welcome."

"Not so," replied I; "I must pay her ransom."

"Well then, Sir," said he, "I am in great want of a telescope; you have one on board, will
you let me have it?"

"Most certainly," replied I, "and many thanks into the bargain."

I lifted up the poor creature, who was sadly emaciated and weak, and led her to the boat of
the Amy and put her in. Captain Irving came down, and we returned on board. It was with great
difficulty that, after I had given the poor creature some refreshment, which she was really
in need of, I could recollect sufficient of her language to make myself understood by her;
but by degrees words came to my memory, and as she spoke I recovered more. As well as I could
make her out, the warriors had risen against the king on account of his barbarity, and had
cut him to pieces; and that all his wives and servants had been sold as slaves. I promised
her that she should not be a slave, but should come to my country and be taken care of.

She kissed my hands, and as she smiled her thanks, she reminded me of the Whyna of former times.
I did not, however, think it advisable that she should come on board of the schooner, and I
requested Captain Irving to take charge of her, and let her want for nothing, telling him that
I intended that she should go home in his vessel. He willingly consented, and I hailed the
schooner for a boat and went on deck. Whyna followed, but I told her I was obliged to go on
board of the schooner, and that she had better go and lie down. As she probably thought that
the Amy was my vessel, and that I was going away on a visit, she complied with my request,
and went down with Captain Irving, who led her into a state-room which was not occupied.

As soon as I arrived on board the schooner, I sent the telescope which the captain of the slaver
had begged for. Whyna had said to me, "I shall be your slave now," evidently expecting that
she was to remain with me, but that I could not consent to. Miss Trevannion had heard from
me my adventures when in captivity, and I would not on that account allow Whyna to be in the
same vessel with me. The next day Captain Irving came on board to tell me that he had two more
men down with the fever, and that he wished I could give them some assistance in getting his
cargo on board, which I did, and before night the Amy was loaded up to the hatchways, and there
still remained a considerate number of elephants' teeth on shore in the hut where he received
them. I therefore determined, as his crew were evidently sickening fast, that he should sail
immediately, and that I would take the remainder of the ivory on board of the schooner and
follow him, giving him a rendezvous to wait at until I joined him, that we might proceed home
in company. That night three of my men were ill.

I was on board of the Amy, and had been talking with Whyna, who wanted to know why I did not
sleep on board of the vessel. I told her that I could not, but that we were to go to England
directly, and that I was living on board of the schooner. A tail of at least ten waiters joined him,
so he came into the dining room.

"They immediately walked to the blackboard, and I've rarely laughed so much as at that time, for with
the utmost coolness claimed the old man, straight road from Kassel to come and before days in Frankfurt
in the swan well housed six to have. the dessert had Barighi gone be there early, because as the chief
counselor stood up and also the other guests brought forward, he was to be seen anywhere. "The
Chief Justice turned to the window, We all followed his example and
watched him.

The house seemed barren and uninhabited opposite; the doorstep sprouted grass, the blinds were
closed on and between some birds seemed to have built.

"'A nice house over there,' the old man began to the innkeeper, in the third position behind him
stood still. "To whom it belongs? '-' The Chief Justice hares hit,
wait on your Excellency.

'"' Oh, that's probably the same that has studied with me? " he exclaimed. 'The it would never forgive
me if I did not known him taet my presence. " It tore at the window:
'Rabbit hits - Bunnies hit!

" he
shouted in a hoarse voice out .-- But who can describe our horror when compared to the desolate house,
which we and locked knew well-closed, a shutter is opened slowly, and a window opened, and
out rabbits results looked the chief magistrate in the teat gown and the white cap, with gray
ringlets which welled few, so, just as he used to wear at home. Except for the smallest wrinkle of
the pale face was the opposite of the same as the one who stood by
us. But terror seized us, when in a dressing gown with the same husky
voice over the road herueberrief: 'What do you want, who calls you? he!
'"' Are you the Lord Chief Justice hares hit?" cried on our side,
as pale as death, in a trembling voice, he was trembling at the window.

"'I am he,' yelled those nodded and friendly grin on the head, 'is something to order?'" 'I
He, too, am, 'cried the wistfully at our side,' how is it possible this? '"' You are mistaken, dearest!"
cried over that.

'You have hurt the Thirteenth, come just a little over in my house that I will turn around his neck,
does not.' "'Waiter, stick and hat!" cried the chief counselor, matt
death and the voice crept up to him melancholy cry from the hollow
chest up at.

'In my house is the devil and want my soul, - pleasant evening, gentlemen! " "added he, with
a friendly bow turned to us and then left the room."

'What was that? " we asked. 'Are we all mad? "-"

The gown looked in the still calm of the window out, during our good old fool in stiffly over
the road increased. At the front door he pulled a large keychain from his
pocket, bolted - The gown looked at him quite indifferent to - bolted
heavy, creaking on the front door and entered.

"Now retired and the other from the back window, we
saw how he was approaching the door to ours." Our host, the ten waiters
were all pale with fear and trembling.

"Gentlemen, 'said the other,' God is the poor rabbit hit gracious, because one of them was the
devil incarnate. '- We laughed out of the landlord and would even persuade
us that there is a Joke of Barighi was, but assured the industry
that it had in the house can go with no one except the extremely artificial
keys to the Council; Barighi was ten minutes before horrible happen,
even sat at the table, as he would have because in such a short deceptive
mask can tighten the time, even assuming he would have the strange
house oeffnen to know?

The two are horribly similar to each other but have been so that
he, a neighbor of twenty years, can not distinguish real would have
the.

But for God's sake, my Gentlemen, you hear not the horrible screaming
over there? "" We ran to the window, terribly mournful voices sounded
the desolate house across from, and some times it seemed to us as
we sow into our old Chief Justice, pursued by his own image in a dressing
gown at the window Suddenly, however, was vorbeijagen. everything
quiet.

"We looked at each other, and the courageous go over the proposal made!
All agreed. They went across the road, the big house bell at the old
house rang three times, but it would not let anyone hear, as we began
to dawn, and we sent for the police and the locksmith, you broke Tuere
from those of the whole flow of the curious pulled wide, quiet upstairs
which, all the doors were locked, one went on at length, in a magnificent
room Chief Justice was in the torn stahlfarbigen skirt, delicate hair
terribly verzaust the dead, strangled on the sofa.

"Barighi has from you since then neither in Stuttgart, or anywhere
else ever seen a trace. "* * * * * CHAPTER III.

The dreadful night. (Continued) The professor had his narration ended,
we sat for some time silent and thoughtful.

The long silence was finally embarrassed me and I wanted to rekindle the conversation again,
or bring on a different path than I a man of middle age in many
hunting uniform, if I mistake not, a senior forestry official from
the Nassau, forestalled. "It's probably all of us have already encountered,
that it countless times for one another was held, or even strangers for acquaintances
addressed completely, and strange it is, I have this remark often found
in my life, confirmed that the confusion in those plates, everyday,
meaningless faces than with striking, actually found less interesting.

"We were not going to reject his claim as highly improbable, but he appealed to the really interesting
phenomenon of our Natas .

"Each of us admit," he said, "that the thought to space given to our
friend, only under another form, seen to have there, here or not,
and yet his sharp forms, his commanding look, his winning smile quite
made it at constant memorial to coin into it.

"" do you like have not so wrong, "said Flasshof,
a Prussian captain, the punishment of the arrest through two days with
us had hesitated on, Koblenz in his return to garrison." They may be right,
I remember a passage from the humorous memoirs of the Italian Count
Gozzi, the statement speaks for all your.

Anyone, he says, has the Michele D'Agata knew and knows that he is
a foot thick and at least two small than I, and otherwise not the
slightest resemblance in dress and physiognomy has been with me.

But long years I had the daily frustration of singers, dancers, violinists
and light cleaners when Mr. Michele D'Agata addressed almost become
long and complaints payment, claims, etc. to have to listen to bad.

They rarely went convinced me that I do not d'Agata is Michele.

I once visited a lady in Verona, the Kammermaedchen to notify me:
'Mr. Agata. "I went in and Michele D'Agata was as welcomed and entertained,
I went out and met a doctor whom I knew well. "Good evening, Mr. Agata,
'was his greeting, as he passed .-- I thought myself almost at the end,
I was of Michele D'Agata. "I had the good captain thanks for giving us
from the frightening fantasies which the narrative of the professor had
us excited, redeemed. The conversation quiet on floss; one was fighting
for the privilege of nations, face cut to have an interesting, about
the influence of the spirit of the Gesichtszuege any way at all and
the eye in particular, we finally came to Lavater and Co.; matters,
which I hundred times discussed I do not ruminant liked more, I pulled
myself back into a window. followed soon me the professor for that
time to like me, the disputants to see the faces.

"What a frivolous people," he sighed, "I have now just been warned,
and the hell they quite hot done so, they ventured into any corner
see more details, for fear that the devil would like to peep out of
it, and now they laugh again and make great pranks, as if the tempter
always slinking about it.

"I was about to laugh, the official air, the Professor gave."

I have never the talent of a beautiful Vesper preacher remarked to
you, "I said," but you look at me in amazement by her audacious attacks
on the evil world and to Argentina itself to making you a really,
this harmless Natas ...."

" Harmless you call him?

" interrupted the professor, fiercely grasps my breast, "harmless? because you have not noticed,"
he whispered, "that all this fine - Mr. calculated plan is on? Oh, I know my people!" "You put
me in astonishment how do you mean? "" Have you not noticed, "he continued eagerly," that the
educated gentleman head forester with and soul is his body there,
because he nights five through all the money abjagte and Ausgebeutelten
last night still fifteen ducats let win?

He calls the crafty player a man of the noblest sentiments, vowing to honor, he should beat about
half the foreigners lose again, otherwise he had no peace. Do you
also not noticed how he has grained Ökonomierat the "" I've probably seen,
"I replied," that the Ökonomierat, usually so morose and misanthropic, woke up
a little now, but I have the general influence of the society attributed.

"Watchers. It runs for twenty years and wakes up about in the companies but not along the way
he is a brother to be dissolute. The donkey travels around in a sick country, claims to have a worm
in my body great and makes life all the people angry with its exorbitant claims, and now? Now
it has miracle man caught this gives him a Puelverlein and advises him, not as another reasonable
physician, diet and moderation, but it is his youth, as fifty years
of the old worm known to indulge, drink and wine much c., and et cetera,
and the wine he used for four days dehumanizing as the prodigal son.

"" And are you annoyed about it can, sir? The man is himself and the gift of life again - ""
Not like I speak, "said the zealous," the old sinner because of me could still leave, but that he is
the next best entrusted charlatan and so you need to ruin.

I met him eight years in the treatment had before, and it has improved visibly.
"The zeal of the professor was somewhat understandable to me now, the
jealousy did not look blurred out .--"

And our women, "he continued," the are now purely great. I will take the poor Truebenau,
I know him not, but after tomorrow where he will arrive, and how he
finds the lady? Did any one ever heard that a young educated woman
in the early years of a marriage is lucky in such a relationship
with a complete stranger enters, but within five days!

"-" What? the beautiful pale woman there, "I exclaimed .--" The pale, "said he," four days
ago was in fact her beautiful red like a cabbage rose, as yet met her the interest on the street
asking where they go, hears little that they buy fin would Rouge
(for toilet secrets to divulge such means Bonton), it begs and begs
him, she should but no red hang up, she had such an interesting je
ne sais quoi, that a pale complexion much better to stand.

What do you do? indeed, it goes in the next Galanterieladen and looks white makeup, and I was
just there to buy a pipe, tube, because I heard it with her sweet voice
to the rough-haired bear of a clerk to ask whether one do not know something
ethereal I have? Get me the T ------! one has ever heard anything
like that?

"I sincerely regret the professor, for, if I mistake not, he sought from the beginning, the attention
of the beautiful woman on the somewhat faded cover his learned mind
to draw.

That it but with Natas and the Truebenau was not quite right, I saw itself from the make-up story,
which so infuriated those who, although I knew nothing, but who on the exegesis of the eyes saw
itself, had no further comment needed rapprochement conclusions to explain the mutual. The had
Professor, sunk in deep thought, while a silent, and he now raised his eyes through his glasses
at the ceiling of the room, where all sorts of little angels in plaster were applied. "sky," he
sighed, "and the Thing he has. They do not believe in eternal attraction which the bright eye,
these dimples on the cheeks blooming in the enamel of their teeth,
in this fresh, open lips to kiss, in those soft arms, in this round,
full forms of swelling - ""

Professor, "I cried, alarmed about his ecstasy, and shook him by the arm back to life." You get
out of themselves, Worcester. Do not taste a pinch Spaniol "" He has too, "he added grudgingly." Did
not you mark with what his circumstances after haste she asked a while ago? How was it red? Young,
beautiful, wealthy widow - she has everything to make a game enjoyable.

Ingenious men of reputation in the literary world vie for her favor,
she throws herself on one - towards vagrants.

Oh, if you knew the best doctor, what I said the head waiter, but with
the greatest discretion, that he was yesterday at night from her
room ...."

"Please, spare me," I remembered, "you confess I prefer to wonder
whether the man himself is not under the slipper has brought you.

"" That's just it, "said the person asked an embarrassed smile," that's what makes me worry. You
know, I read about chemistry and he once brought to the conversation, and developed such deep knowledge,
covered way and kuehne new ideas that my head swam the.

I want him around the neck and covered his notebooks and notes ask
for, it I am drawn with irresistible spirits strength in its vicinity,
and yet I could gladly poison teach him.

"How funny was the rage of this man! He clenched his fist and drove it back and forth, his green
glasses glasses sparkled like cats eyes, his short, black hair seemed
to embrace the height. I tried to calm him. I imagined him that he could
not go out dehumanizing if the stranger would be the devil himself,
but he does not let me come to the words.

"It is he who Satan himself stays here in the three imperial crowns, "he cried," to catch
our souls. Yes, you're a great fisherman and have a fine nose, but a ---- r professor like me, even
demagogic investigations immediately smelled a rat here, and especially
so after traveling to Mainz is that such has not a finer than you,
"a hoarse laugh, which seemed to arise behind my back straight, drew
my attention to himself.

I turned around and thought scornfully Natas hereingrinsen to see through the windows. I grabbed the
professor's arm around him to see the strange phenomenon, because
the room was one floor up, he had neither heard the laughter, nor
could he see my appearance, because as he turned , saw only the pale
disc of the moon through the window where I face the mysterious stranger
had believed to see the previously distorted horribly.

Before I
quite agree with me, was whether what I have seen, the meaning of fraud, a figment excited imagination
or reality was, was the door opened and Lord of Natas was proud step into the room. With a strange
smile mass notifying the Company that he knew very well what was it spoken by him, and I thought to
note that none those present who could withstand his searching glance. With his own in the
facility he had Truebenau opposite, next to the woman of Things, taken place and direction of
the conversation itself seized. The evil conscience let the professor does not sit at the table,
me even attracted the desire to people once the distance to observe them,
to my window seat.

As we observed for eye contact between women of Truebenau and the cleverest
of the lover who, he, the Ökonomierat so much debt to say knew the
daughter of by that they once about other up under the broad bosom
of her Brussels lace ruff the blushing, little feet of the woman on
his highly polished boots of Thing dance let the finely shaped.

"Three mosquitoes in one go, which I call it - my Seel' - all honorable, "muttered the professor
glowing with rage, now its the last resource, the economical Schoene, then one says anything, should
be snatched from the mouth. With sounding steps he walked to the table,
took a chair and sat down, wide like a wall, next to his Schoene.

But this seemed only to have Natas for ears, for she answered his question
as to whether they probably are, after tomorrow "," and full of grief
when he threw the note, she seemed very distracted, "said it "1 fl
30 kr. the yard.

"I now looked forward to
an unpleasant appearance.

The professor, it did not think it through a sonnet or triolet make everything
well again, even a couple ottave by rime even when Truebenau could
insinuate again objected now almost any claim that the Natas uttered.

And oh! not to his advantage, for this, the dialectic of the good
chair man by far superior to leaded him so on the ice that blanket
his logic to seize the light and in a chaos of contradictions, ICIMOD
he threatened.

A sweet-scented
bowl of punch broke some time the dispute of the tongue, but gave
it rise to the more hostile glances between women of Truebenau and
wife of Things.

These had their nice, round
arms, aware of mighty silver spoon taken the order when pouring the whole grace
to develop their attitude. Those poo, but the cup filled with such
grace, with such loving eyes, that the desire each other as much as possible to do
demolition, was unmistakable. But when the very strong punch the soft
of the autumn evening, pushed aside Schauer had when he started our
ladies higher to dye cheek and out the eyes of men to shine, as it
seemed to me at once, as if you were, I do not know how the limits
of decency stepped out.

All sorts of silly ideas got into with up and down, the conversation hummed and hummed like a mill
wheel, they laughed and shouted and over did not know what. They giggled
and teased him, and the head forester even brought a Pfaenderspiel with
kisses in the proposal. Suddenly heard I raucous laughter that again,
I thought to hear from the window just now really, it was Natas,
who listened to the professor, and despite the zeal and earnestness
with which this brought forward everything, every moment in his hoarse
laughter broke out.

"Not true, my heart, and ladies, "shouted out the punch from the
professor," have you noticed a moment ago that our dear friend there
any of you, just in another form, has already met? you silent?

Is that Raison, so in to allow sand to sit? Waiter forester, Mrs of
Things, madam! Share itself, especially you, Doctor! "We found ourselves
by the indiscretion of the professor in great embarrassment."

I remember, "I replied, as everything was silent, "of interesting faces and confusion have spoken to her. And
if I was not mistaken, Lord of Natas also listed."
 There was not a spot where
one could be driven without being defiled in some way or another; and so many human beings--one
half of whom were negroes--being crowded into so small a space, with only one barred window,
so high up as only to serve as a ventilator, created an atmosphere worse than any slave-vessel's
hold. I leaned with my back against the wall, and, I must say, never was so miserable in my
life. I thought of Amy, and my sanguine hopes and anticipations of happiness, now all wrecked.
I thought of Captain Levee and my brother Philip careering over the seas, free as the wind.
I thought of poor Whyna, and the distress she must feel at finding I did not rejoin her. I
planned a hundred schemes to make known my situation, but every scheme, as soon as I weighed
it, I found was hopeless. Still weak from previous disease, I felt as if I should be suffocated
if I remained long in this pestiferous abode, and I wept like a child. Daylight came at last,
and soon afterwards the door was opened; we were admitted into the yard, and all hastened to
the large tub of water, which was soon emptied. The fighting and scrambling to obtain first
possession was really revolting. An hour afterwards some coarse provisions were served out,
and then we learnt, to our great delight, that we were immediately to set out for the mines.
It would be thought that this could be no great cause for exaltation; we were about to go to
pass the rest of our lives in bondage; but all misery is comparative, and sooner than have
remained another night in that dreadful hole, I would have welcomed any change. About an hour
afterwards a guard of dirty-looking soldiers came in; we were all handcuffed to a long chain,
at about two feet apart, one on each side, so that we walked in pairs, and as soon as the first
chain was full--and I was handcuffed to it--we were ordered out into the square to wait for
the others. My superior dress and appearance as an Englishman excited much curiosity; people
pointed to me and made remarks, but I had no opportunity of communicating with any of the authorities,
nor would it have been of any use if I had had. We remained there more than an hour, as the
other chains of prisoners came out one by one; we were five chains in all, about forty on a
chain. We were then ordered to move on, walking between a guard of about twenty or thirty soldiers,
who marched, on each side of us, with their muskets and bayonets fixed, about three yards from
each other. In another hour we were clear of the town, and threading our way through a lane
bounded on each side by prickly pears and other shrubs. There was no want of merriment among
the party; they talked and laughed with one another, and the soldiers who guarded them, and
appeared to care little for their fate. As for me, I was broken-hearted with the disgrace and
the villainous manner in which I had been thus sacrificed. My heart was full of bitterness,
and I could gladly have lain down and died, had I not been still buoyed up with some faint
hope that I should have an opportunity of making my position known, and obtain my release.
I will pass over the journey, as one day was but the forerunner of the other. We halted at
noon, and were supplied with fruit and maize, but we were never unchained, day or night. In
a short time I was like all the rest--covered with vermin, and disgusting to myself. It was,
I think, between four and five weeks before we arrived at our destination, which was in the
district of Tejuco, and the locality of the diamond-mines was called the Sierra de Espinhaço.
This sierra, or mountain, was a ridge of inaccessible precipices on each side of a narrow valley,
traversed by a small river called the Tequetinhonha, and in this valley, and in the bed of
the river, were the diamonds found, for which we were condemned to toil for the remainder of
our days. As we entered the ravine, I perceived how impossible it would be to escape; even
if a person could find his way back, after having succeeded in his escape. For many miles the
road was a narrow path cut on the side of the mountain, yawning precipice below and inaccessible
rocks above, and this narrow way was at every two miles blocked up by a guard-house built upon
it, and through the portcullis of which it would be necessary to force a way. And here we were,
thousands of miles away from civilized life, in the heart of a country uninhabited except by
occasional bands of Indians. At last we filed through the last of the guard-houses, and found
ourselves in a wider part of the ravine, which was crowded with buildings of various descriptions.
We were led up to the director's house, and our names, persons, and descriptions were taken
down by a clerk. When my turn came, and I was asked in Portuguese who I was, I shook my head,
and replied "Ingles." An interpreter was called, and I then stated my name, and begged the
director would hear what I had to say. He shook his head, and, after they had taken my description,
desired me to go away.

"Why did you not explain for me?" said I to the interpreter.

"Because he won't hear what you have to say; if he would, every man on the chain would attempt
to prove that he was sent here by mistake. You may, by-and-by, find an opportunity to speak
to him, that is, after you have learnt Portuguese, and have been here a year or two; but it
will do no good."

During the whole of the journey, I had been separated from Ingram, and now, for the first time
since we left prison, I had an opportunity of shaking him by the hand. I need not say how glad
I was to meet again my companion in misfortune, and our only fear was now, that we should be
again separated; but such was not the case. There were regular lodgings or barracks for the
slaves, which were certainly not bad; but as all escape was considered impossible, any one
who chose to raise a little hut for himself out of the bushes which grew on the rocks was permitted
so to do. The hours of work were regular; we were allotted out in gangs, which took up a certain
square of the river, or river's side; we worked from daylight till near dusk, with only an
hour allowed for repose in the heat of the day. There was a superintendent over each gang of
twenty, who watched them and made them work. Why do not you should have the courage to, such property to
dismiss one yourself, as this resolution, your life depends?

"With these words he roused himself and let his boat companions call. He wore them way a vehicle
to charter in the usual and everything prepared to hold that they could run out the first favorable
wind at.

Then
he explained to his wife are as follows: "Do not let strange when you see a movement in the house,
from which you can close that I was preparing myself to a departure ! Grieve not, when I confess
that I intend to take a voyage to again! My love for you is still the same, and they will certainly
keep it in my life. I recognize the value of happiness that I previously enjoyed on your side,
and it would still feel pure, if I do not often make accusations of inaction and carelessness would
have to satisfy the. My old affection wakes up again, and my old habit of pulling me in again. Allow
me to again see the market of Alexandria, which I would eagerly attend now greater because I was there the
most delicious fabrics and the finest treasures for think to win you. I'll leave you in possession
of all my cargo and my fortune, which makes use you and Enjoy thy parents and relatives! The period
of absence is also over, and many with joy, we shall meet again. "Not without tears made him the amiable
woman's tender reproaches, assured that they will not spend happy
hours without him, and asked him just because they think he may want
to restrict or even that their absence he may remember the best in it.

After
that different with her about some shops and home affairs said, "he said after a pause:" I
now have something on your mind, it must allow you to speak freely to me, only I beg of you most
sincerely, not to misinterpret what I say but also concern itself my love to see this. "" I can guess
it, "Schoene said the fact," you are worried because of me by you
kind of men our race once and for all for weak to hold.

You have me young and happy so far known, and now you think I would be seduced away carelessly
and your in. I rebuke this disposition, because it is habitually when you men, but how do I know
my heart, I can assure you that nothing is so easy to make an impression on me and its possible
effect of an impression so deep is to me the way to derive from,
on which I hinwandelte been at the hand of love and duty.

Do not worry thou shalt wife so tenderly and true to your return again yours, as you found
them in the evening if you away a little in my arms returning to. "" These sentiments, I trust to
you, "replied the husband," and ask you to remain, in it. Let us consider the extreme cases, however,
why should we also do not provide on it? You know how very beautiful and charming form the
eyes of our young citizens to be your moves, they will be even more in my absence so far of you
endeavor as they are on you to approach all the way, so try to put up with. Not always the
picture of your husband, as now, his presence, they scare your door and your heart from. You
are a noble and good child, but the demands of nature are lawfully and violent, they are constantly
in conflict with our reason and habitually take the victory.

Do not interrupt me! You will certainly in my absence, even with the memory of me to duty, the desire
to feel, which attracts the man's wife and is attracted by him. I will time the object of your desires
to be one, but who knows, for circumstances which meet, for opportunities to find something, and
someone else will reap the reality in which the imagination had intended for me. Do not be impatient,
I pray thee, hear me out! Should the case come, the opportunity and you deny I do not wish you to speed
up that you have the company of a man not stay longer without the joys of love could probably
do without not promise to me not only my body of the boy to choose frivolous, it's that, good
though they may look like the honor even more than the virtue of a woman are dangerous. more
by vanity than by greed dominates, it is an endeavor each and found nothing more natural
than to sacrifice one another. Do you feel inclined you, you look for a friend, so after a brisk,
which deserves the name, the modest and discreet love nor by the secret blessing to bring the
joys of white. "
 I could not imagine why I was thus
so fortunate in being promoted, but I afterwards found out that, although I had never but casually
seen her, I was indebted for my good fortune to a fancy which the director's eldest daughter
(for he had his family with him) had taken for me.

This was singular, for I had never spoken to her, and what is more strange, I never did speak
to her, nor did she ever attempt to speak to me, so that it was wholly disinterested on her
part. I had now still less to do, and was in constant communication with the director, and
one day stated to him how it was that I had been brought there. He told me that he believed
me, but could not help me, and after that, the subject was never again mentioned between us.
Having little to do, I now took up the Bible given me by the old Englishman, as I had time
to read it, which I had not before, when I was employed the whole day; but now I had a convenient
cottage, as I may call it, of my own, and plenty of leisure and retirement.

I studied the Bible carefully, and found much comfort in it. Not that I was content with my
lot--that I never could be while I was separated from Amy--but still I found much consolation,
and I became, to a certain degree, resigned. I thought of my former life with disgust, and
this second reading of the Bible, for the reader may recollect that the first took place when
I was first confined in the Tower, was certainly of great advantage to me. I had more time
to dwell upon it--more time for reflection and self-examination--and every day I reaped more
advantage and became more worthy of the name of Christian. I now prayed fervently, and I think
my prayers were heard, as you, my dear Madam, will also think as I continue my narrative. About
three months after I had been appointed an inspector, Ingram was taken ill. At first he complained
of disordered bowels, but in a few days inflammation came on, which ended in mortification.
He was in great agony until the mortification took place, when he obtained comparative relief.

"My dear Mr. Musgrave," he said, as I was at his bed-side, "in a few hours I shall have escaped
from the mines, and be no more in bondage. I shall follow the poor old Englishman, who left
you his executor. I am about to do the same. I shall now make my will verbally, as we have
no writing-materials here, and leave you all I possess."

"Why are you not more serious, Ingram," I said, "at such a moment as this?"

"I am most serious," he replied. "I know that in a few hours I shall be no more, and I trust
in the mercy of Him who died for kings and for slaves; but, Musgrave, I have a secret to tell
you. Do you recollect the story in the fairy tales of the little white cat whose head was obliged
to be cut off, and who then turned into the most beautiful princess in the world? Well, my
secret is something like hers."

I thought, by his continuing in this strain, that his head was wandering. I was about to speak
to him, when he continued:

"Do you know what has occasioned my death? I will tell you the secret. I was washing for diamonds,
when I found one of a size which astonished me. I knew it was of great value, and I did not
choose that the King of Portugal should receive such a benefit from my hands. I put it into
my mouth to secrete it, hardly knowing what I should do afterwards, but I was thinking how
I should act, when one of the superintendents passing (that crabbed old Portuguese belonging
to the next gang), and seeing me idle and in deep thought, he struck me with his cane such
a smart rap on the shoulders, that he not only made me jump out of my reverie, but the diamond
went down my throat. I'm sure if I had tried to swallow it I could not have done so, but the
shock forced it down. Well, this has occasioned my death, for it has remained in my stomach
and occasioned the stoppage, which has ended in inflammation and mortification. I feel it here
even now; give me your finger, don't you feel it? Well, now you understand why I talked of
the little white cat. Don't cut off my head, but when I am dead, just put your knife down there
and take out the diamond and bury it, for I tell you--and they say dying men see clearer than
others--but that I am certain you will be released from these mines, and then the diamond will
be a fortune to you, and you will find that being my executor was of some value to you. Now,
pray--no scruple--I entreat it as a last favour, promise me that you will do as I wish--pray
promise me, or I shall die unhappy."

I could not help promising him to execute his wishes, he appeared so earnest and asked it as
a last favour, but I felt very repugnant at the idea. In another hour poor Ingram breathed
his last, and I was most melancholy at the loss of so worthy a friend, who had by serving me
been subjected to the same slavery as myself. I left the hut and went to my own house, thinking
over the strange communication that had been made to me. And why, thought I, should I obtain
this diamond? I have no chance of leaving this; yet, who knows, Ingram prophesied in his dying
moments that I should--well, at all events, I will keep my promise to the poor fellow. I reported
his death to the director, and, about an hour afterwards, went to the hut where he lay. His
countenance was placid, and I looked at him for a long while, and queried whether he was not
happier than I was or ever could be. But, to comply with his request--I could not bear the
idea. I did not want the diamond, and I, who in my early career had thought nothing of cutting
and maiming the living man, now shuddered at the idea of making an incision in a dead body.
But there was no time to be lost, the burials always took place at sunset, and it was near
the hour. I bent a piece of bamboo cane double, like a pair of sugar-tongs, and then putting
my finger to the part of his stomach which he had pointed out, I felt that there was a hard
substance, and I made an incision with my knife--probing with the blade. I touched the diamond,
and then using the piece of cane as a pair of pincers, I contrived, after one or two attempts,
to extract it. I threw the diamond without examination into a pan of water which stood by the
bed, and covering up the body, I made a hole in the floor of the hut and buried the knife,
which I felt I never could use again.

I looked out of the hut and perceived two of the slaves, who performed that office, coming
towards me to take away the body. I desired them to carry it leaving the clothes on, followed
them, and saw it deposited in the earth; after which I read prayers over the grave and could
not refrain from shedding many tears to the memory of my faithful associate. I then returned
to the hut, and taking the pan of water in my hand went to my own abode. I could not bear to
touch the diamond, but I dared not leave it where it was; so I poured all the water out of
the pan, and then rolled the diamond out on the floor, which was of hardened clay. I saw at
once that it was one of great value, weighing, I should think, thirteen or fourteen grammes,
and of a very pure water. It was in the form of an obtuse octohædron, and on one side was quite
smooth and transparent. Having made this examination, I picked up some of the clay with a piece
of iron, and rolling the diamond into the hole, I jammed the clay down over it. "There," said
I, "you may remain till doomsday, or till some one finds you; you will be of no use to me;"
and I thought of the cock in the fable. My tattered Bible caught my eye, and I said to it,
"You are of more value than all the diamonds in the world;" and I only uttered what I felt.

For a long time I mourned for Ingram, and thought nothing of the diamond. Three months more
passed away, and I had been eighteen months in the mines, when some visitors made their appearance--no
less than one of the principals of the Jesuit order, who had been sent by the king of Portugal
out to the Brazils, on a tour of inspection, as it was called, but in fact to examine into
the state of affairs, and the way in which the government revenue was collected. There had
lately been so much peculation on the part of the various officers, that it was considered
necessary to make minute inquiry. A Portuguese nobleman had been sent out the year before,
but had died shortly after his arrival, and there was every reason to suppose that he had been
poisoned, that the inquiry might be got rid of. Now this Jesuit priest had been sent out, probably
because a Portuguese, who thought little of poisoning and stabbing a layman, would not dare
to attempt the life of so sacred a character. Having full and extraordinary powers, he had
made a short inquiry into the different departments of government, and had now come to the
mines to ascertain how far the delivery of the diamonds at the treasury agreed with the collection
at the mines; for these mines had usually produced from a million to a million and a half of
revenue. The director was in a great fuss when he heard of this arrival at the further barrier;
although immediately announced to him, he had scarcely an hour to prepare before the superior
of the Jesuits arrived with his suite, consisting of about twenty people, and fifty or sixty
sumpter mules and riding-horses. We were all called out to receive him, that is, all the inspectors.
I went to attend the parade, and awaited with much indifference; but my feelings were soon
changed, when in this superior of the Jesuits I beheld the Catholic priest who had visited
me in the Tower and obtained my release. The superior bowed to the director and to all around
him, and as he then looked at us all, he recognized me immediately.

"You here, my son?" said he.

"Yes, holy father," replied I, "and I thank Heaven that your arrival will enable me to prove
my innocence."

"Pray how is this?" said he.

In a few words I narrated my story.

"And you were thrown into prison without being permitted to defend yourself?"

"Even so, good father, and sent to the mines to slave for life."

"Did you not make known your case to the director of the mines?"

"I did, Sir, but he stated that he pitied me, but could not help me."

"Is this the case, Mr. Director?" said the Jesuit, severely.

"It is, Sir," replied the director; "I have more than once reported cases of what appeared
to me great hardship, if what those condemned have said was true, and have been told that I
was too officious, and that there could be no reversal of sentence. I can prove to you, Sir,
by my journals and letter-books how many cases I did formerly attempt to bring before the government;
but I at last received such replies, which I can show you, as will prove that there has been
no fault of mine."

"Allow me to add, holy father," said I, "that the kindness and consideration of the director
have been very great to all those under his charge, and I think it very fortunate that such
a person has been appointed to this situation, as he has done every thing that has been in
his power to alleviate the miseries of bondage."

"I am glad to hear you say so, Mr. Elrington; Mr. Director, this gentleman is a dear friend
of mine, let him instantly be released. My orders are not to be disputed by the viceroy himself."

The superior then embraced me cordially, and told me that I was free, and should return with
him to Rio. Imagine, my dear Madam, my joy and gratitude. I fell on my knees before him, and
kissed his hands. He gave me his blessing, and raised me up.

"Where is your companion in misfortune?" said he.

"Alas! Sir, he is dead," replied I.

The superior shook his head and turned away, saying, "I will search into this affair to the
bottom, depend upon it, when I get back to Rio."

He then desired the director to bring out his books, and his own secretary to follow him, leaving
his servants in the court-yard with me and the other inspectors. I received the congratulations
of all parties present, and as soon as possible I escaped from them, and returned to my own
room, where I knelt and fervently thanked God for my unexpected deliverance; and having paid
my duty to the Most High, I sat down, and fell into a most delightful reverie of anticipations.
In the evening, after the superior had dismissed him, the director sent for me, and said,

"Allow me to return you many thanks for your kindness in speaking so favourably of me as you
have done. You have, indeed, been of service to me, and I am most grateful."

"I only did you justice, director," replied I.

"Yes, but how few have justice done them in this world," replied he. "The superior desired
me to tell you, that you are to live with the gentlemen of his suite. Of course, you know,
it is not etiquette for him to admit any body to his table. At all events you must allow me
one pleasure, which is to supply you with clothes proper to your appearance, which I can easily
do without inconvenience to myself."

The director then led me into his room, and opened a wardrobe full of rich suits, selected
two of the handsomest, with linen and every other article requisite, a handsome sword and hat,
all of which he begged me to accept. Calling one of his servants, he ordered him to put them
into a valise, and take them to my apartment.

"Is there any thing else that I can do?--speak freely."

"No, director," replied I, "I will accept these things from you, as I cannot procure them here,
but when at Rio, I have means to obtain every thing that I require. I return you many thanks."

"I will send my servant to arrange your hair," said he; "and I pray you to consider him at
your disposal during the few days which the superior may remain here."

"Do you think it will take him so long?"

"Yes," replied the director, "I will tell you in confidence, that he has brought with him the
produce of the mines accounted for to the government at home, and on his first inspection has
found such defalcation from that which has been transmitted by me to Rio, that I expect there
will be serious business. They never imagined at Rio that he would have undertaken such a tedious
journey as he has done, and they are in much alarm about it; but I will leave you now, that
you may go home and make your toilet. Allow me to congratulate you, with all my heart, at the
fortunate termination to your unjust bondage."

Having again thanked him for his kindness, I went to my lodging, where I found his servant
waiting for me; and having had my hair arranged in a very tolerable manner, and a little powder
thrown in, I put on one of the suits, which fitted me pretty well, requiring but a slight alteration,
from being rather full, which the servant soon managed. Thus did I once more appear as a gentleman--contrary
to all my expectations--and I then went and joined the suite of the superior, who, when they
perceived the difference which dress made in my appearance, congratulated me, and warmly welcomed
me to join the meal which had just been prepared for them. On the following day, the superior
sent for me, and ordering me to sit down, requested that I would enter into full detail of
what had happened to me since we last parted. I did so, and my narrative occupied the whole
afternoon.

"Your life has been full of vicissitude," replied he; "I trust, however, that your adventures
are now over, and that you will be restored to your friends: the service you performed for
our cause will never be forgotten."

I ventured to ask him how it was that he was now in the employ of the King of Portugal? He replied,

"I am an Irishman by birth, and educated at St. Omers. I was first sent to Spain by the order
when I was young, and have since been employed all over the world in the advancement of our
holy church. Country with our order is of no consequence. We all serve the holy church, and
go wherever our services are required. I would you were a Catholic, I could advance you beyond
all your hopes; but you are engaged to be married, and that puts an end to the question."

As I thought the holy father must be tired with our long conference, I rose and took my leave.

Three days afterwards I was informed by him that he intended to set off on his return to Rio,
and now I thought of the diamond, which I resolved to carry with me. I had no fear of being
searched while under this excellent superior's protection, and therefore I went to my lodging,
dug up the diamond, and having washed it, for the first time gave it the examination which
it deserved. It certainly was a stone of great value, but of what value I could not exactly
say. From what I had learnt from the director, who usually put his idea of the value upon any
diamond of size which was brought to him, I considered that 20,000l. was the least which could
be put upon the stone. I took the precaution not to carry it loose in my pocket, but to sew
it within the lining of my clothes. Glad I was, indeed, when the orders to start the next morning
were given out. I found that a horse was appointed for me, and having made up my valise, not
forgetting my tattered Bible, I went to my bed, thanking God that this was to be the last night
that I was to pass in the accursed Sierra de Espinhaço.

At daylight the superior took his leave, mounted his mule, and we set forth, passing the guard-house
in the narrow road, which I never expected to pass again. Before noon we were clear of the
Sierra, and once more in the open country. The attendants, with a portion of the sumpter mules,
went in advance, to prepare for the superior's arrival at the spot where we were to halt.

The weather was excessively sultry, and the glare of the sun was very distressing. At noon
we stopped to take our dinner, and the usual siesta after it. The attendants in advance had
raised a sort of palanquin for the superior, and every thing was ready. The superior alighted,
and sat down under the palanquin, which protected him from the rays of the sun; we all sat
round at a respectful distance. The heat was so intense, that to relieve himself, the superior
had, when he sat down, thrown off his long black robe, such as is worn by the priests of his
order. Dinner was served up, and we had a merry party, notwithstanding the great heat. After
our meal, we all shaded ourselves as well as we could, and took our siesta for about two hours,
when the superior rose up, and gave the signal for resuming our journey. The horses were soon
ready, and the superior's mule being brought up to the palanquin, he rose up, and one of his
attendants was lifting up his robe for the superior to resume it, when my eye detected the
head of a snake just showing itself out of the side-pocket of the robe in which he carried
his breviary and his handkerchief. I knew the snake well, for we often found them in the Sierra
de Espinhaço, and some two or three of the slaves had lost their lives by their bite, which
was so fatal, that they died in less than five minutes afterwards. The superior had his handkerchief
in his hand, and would have undoubtedly put it in his pocket before he mounted his mule, and
if so, would certainly have been bitten, and lost his life. As the superior was fastening his
robe at the throat, I darted forward, seized it, threw it on the ground, and commenced stamping
upon it with all my force, much to the surprise of the whole party. Some of them thought me
mad, and others, who were horrified at such treatment of the holy garment, called out, "Heretico
maldetto!" which, Madam, you must know, means, accursed heretic. Having felt the snake (which
is very short, but very thick in the body, with a head like a toad) several times moving under
my feet, and then moving no more, I then stepped off the garment, and turning it over, I lifted
it up by the skirt, so that the dead snake rolled out of the pocket.

"I thank the God whom we all worship, and the Son of God, who died for us all, whether Catholic
or Heretic," cried I, "that I have been the means of preserving our holy father."

I had knelt down as I thus prayed, and the superior, perceiving the danger that he had been
in, did the same, and silently returned his thanks; at his example all the rest went down on
their knees.

"Yes," said the superior; "would to God that instead of reviling each other, all denominations
of Christians would join in thus bruising the head of the serpent which seeks our spiritual death."

He then rose and said,

"My son, I thank thee for the kind service thou hast performed."

I then explained to the superior the deadly nature of the animal, and my fear that he would
have put his handkerchief in the pocket of his robe before I had time to prevent him, and begged
him to excuse my seeming abruptness.

"There needs no apology for saving a man's life," replied he, smiling.--"Come, let us go forward."

I hardly need say that we were not quite so long in returning to Rio as we were in going to
the mines. We accomplished our journey, without using extreme haste, in about half of the time. Yes,
yes. Responsibility was to the point, he had always known. You had to endure to the extreme,
if one of the Ingmarsöhnen was one.

And suddenly it shot through him like lightning, that it is not honorable
for him would be frozen to be found in the wild forest.

They did not want to have in his obituary it. He stood up again and began to walk And so. But
he had sat still long, so that all the amounts of snow from his fur rolled as he began to stir.
And after a while he sat back and dreamed. Now came the thoughts
of death or enticing to him.

He thought through the whole funeral and all the honors that his dead body would be established. He saw
the big Gastmahltisch in the ballroom of the upper floor covered, the Provost and the Dean's wife
on the seat, the judge in the white ruff on the narrow chest, the major's wife in black silk,
thick gold chain around his neck many times the wound. He saw all guest rooms based white, white
sheets over the windows. White on all furniture. Pine branches on the way from down the hall
to the church. And a baking and brewing battles and two weeks before the funeral. Twenty cords
of wood burned in a fortnight. The corpse on a stretcher in the inner room, fumes in the frischgeheizten
rooms.

Singing at the funeral when the coffin lid is screwed down, silver plate on the coffin. The yard
full of guests. The whole village is in motion to the "Brought to prepare" to all Kirchenhüte
brushed the whole autumn brandy drunk at the wake, all roads full of people like on a market day again
started. The old man. He had heard them speak in the wake of itself. "But how could he freeze
to death in this way," asked the judge.

"What had he ever do in the forest to the top?" And then said the captain, which had probably
the Christmas beer and the brandy made. And this roused him again. The Ingmarsöhne were sober men.
It should not be said of him, he would be his last hours in senses not been to. He began to walk
again and go.

But he was so tired that he could hardly stand on his feet. He was now quite high up in the woods,
he noticed, for it was an impassable land full of large boulders, as they were not to be found
further below. He stayed with his foot from a few stones hang, so that he could barely get free,
and now there he stood, and wailed loudly. Now it was all over with him. And suddenly he fell to
the floor in a big pile of sticks. He was very soft snow and brushwood, so that it no harm
was done, but now he could not get up. He wanted more else in this world nothing but sleep. He pushed
aside the little twigs and crawled into one as if it were a coat.

But as he was pushing the body under the branches, he sensed that in there in the pile was
something that was warm and soft. "This is certainly a bear and goes to sleep," he thought. He felt that
the animal moved, and heard it to be sniffed around. He lay still. He thought that his account
could have the bear eat him. He was able to move a limb to escape him. But the bear seemed to
him that such a storm night under his roof sought refuge in, to want to do no harm. He pushed a little
deeper into his hole, as if to make room for the guest, and then
he slept with steady, roaring breathing.

* * * * * Meanwhile, they had down the old Ingmarshof not had much joy on Christmas. Throughout Christmas
Eve, they had searched Ingmarson Ingmar. At first they were all over the house and walked around
the farm buildings in all.

They had the floor to the basement looking up, then they were gone in the neighborhood and there had
Ingmar Ingmarson asked for. When she nowhere found that sons had sons, and the fields and fields
also go on.

The torches, which the church walkers the way to Midnight Mass would
light up should have been, well lit, and the raging snowstorm on all
the roads and bridges carried about in.

But the wind had traces blown all, and his wailing drowned out the sound of voices, when to call
to scream and tried. until well past midnight, they were out, but
finally saw them, that they daybreak waiting would have to up if they
find were missing the. barely dawn, the dawn, so were all the people
in Ingmarshof back on his feet and the men stood in the yard, ready
to go out into the woods.

But even before she had put up came the old house and called her mother
into the living room.

It was said, the long benches in the room set up, and she sat down at the Christmas table with the
Bible, and began to read.

And when they had their weak powers searched for what those hours would be appropriate in one, as
they had found the story of the man who went from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among the murderers.
She read slowly and singing of the poor man that of the Good Samaritan
came to help. sons and sons, daughters and granddaughters were sitting
around on the benches.

They all were like her and each other: large and cumbersome, with
ugly faces precocious, because they were all from the old stock of
Ingmarsöhne.

All of them had red hair, a freckled skin and light blue eyes and white eyelashes. Moreover, they could
be different enough from each other, but they all had a strict train
around the mouth, sleepy eyes and clumsy movements, when everything
would fall hard for them.

But each of them could not see one that they among the first in the area were, and even knew that they
were more distinguished than the others. Ingmartöchter All Ingmarsöhne and sighed deeply at the
Bible reading. They wondered if perhaps the Samaritan House and his father had found a pity. Because
for all Ingmarsöhne it was as they would lose something of their own soul,
if someone who belonged to the tribe, was one of misfortune hit.

The old woman read and read and came to the question: "What think you, who among these three of
the next was, to him who fell among the murderers? "But before she could even read the answer, went
to the door, and the old Ingmar entered the room."

Mother, father is there, "said one of the daughters and it was not more widely read that the
man's neighbor was the one who had mercy done to him. * * * * * Later in the day the House sat
again in the same place mother and read her Bible. She was alone. The women had gone to church,
and the men were on the bear hunt in the forest.

As well as eating and drinking had Ingmarson Ingmar, he had taken the children and was the
forest to hunt the bears gone. Because it's a fact that there is a man's duty to make the bear
where and when he met him. It is not to spare a bear, because sooner or later he finds a taste
for flesh and spared then neither man nor beast. But since they hunt gone were on was a great fear
about the old house mother came, and they had started to read.

Now they set about what days of the church was preached on this, but they got no further than
to the word "Peace on earth and goodwill toward men." She sat and stared at her dying eyes with
these words , and from time to time she uttered a deep sigh. Do not read on, but only repeated
one time after another with a slow drawling voice: "Peace on earth
and goodwill toward men."

Then came the oldest son in the room when she is off again by these words dragged. "Mother , "he
said very softly.

She heard him, opened his eyes but not to the beech from when she asked:" Are you not in the
forest?

"Yes," he said softly. "I've been there." "Come hither to the table," she said, "so that I can see you."
He came closer, but their view of him was when she saw that he was
trembling.

He had to edge of the table based on the still keep his hands to
be able to.

"Do you have the bear killed," she asked again. Now more he could not answer, he just shook his
head. The old woman stood up and did what they not enough had been since the son was a child.
She walked toward him, laid his hand affectionately on his arm, stroked his cheek and pulled him
on the bench. Then she sat down beside him and held his hand in hers. "Tell me now what has happened,
my boy." The boy saw the caress again, in the years of childhood had the comfort him if he was unhappy
and helpless, and that moved him so deeply that he began to cry. "I can imagine that there
is something with father," she said.

"Yes, but it is worse," cried the son. "Worse?" The boy was crying more and more violent, did not
he, as he power over should get his voice. At last he raised his hand rough with broad fingers
and pointed to the spot they had just read: "Peace on earth." "Is it anything to do with anything?"
she asked. "Yes," replied he said. "With the Christmas peace?" Yes. "You wanted today an evil
deed to do tomorrow." "Yes." And God has punished us? "God has punished us." At last they heard how it
had happened . They had searched for the bear cave, and when they were so close that they could
see the pile of sticks, they were stopped, in order to bring the
guns.

But before they were ready yet, the bear came out of the cave fell
on them now.

He looked
neither to right nor left, he was just the old Ingmar Ingmarson on
and dealt him a blow on the head that laid him down, as if struck
by lightning.

But no one else was on the bear, but rushed past them into the woods. * * * * * In the afternoon
drove Ingmar Ingmarsons wife and son in the parsonage and reported
to the death.

The son did the talking.

The old mistress sat there and listened, with a face that was motionless
as a statue.

The priest sat in his chair at the desk. He had his books out of this place and recorded the death. He did
it a little slow, he would have time to think about what he and the
son of the widow was to say, but because this was an unusual case.

The son had told quite openly how everything had happened, but the
minister wanted to know how they conceived of the thing itself.

There were very strange people, people from Ingmarhofe.

Now when pastor, the book struck the, his son said, "We you wanted to say, Father, that we are
father read have wanted on identity no. The priest pushed his glasses on the forehead, and looked
inquiringly sharply to the old woman across. She sat as motionless as ever. You only crumpled
the handkerchief which she held between the hands.

"He will be buried in one working day," went on the son. "So, so, so, so," he told the priest.
Reeled it formally. The old Ingmar Ingmarson should come under the
earth, and no one knew about it.

The villagers should not be on the hill and see with what state he
would be carried to the grave.

"We will not hold funeral feast.

We have communicated to the neighbors so that they> Packed 'not ready.

"" So, so, so, so, "said the priest again. He could get nothing else on the lips. He knew what it meant
for such people, wake desist from. He had seen, as widows and fatherless comforted very impressive
to hold a funeral feast.

"And there will be no funeral be, just me and my brothers to go with."

The priest looked as if begging for answer to the old woman across.

Could she really agree?

He wondered if the son would express their will, too.

She sat there and did everything so deprive of what you had to be
more precious than silver and gold.

"Let's have no bells or silver plate on the coffin.

We will, mother and me.

But we say to you, Father, to hear Lord, if your father is an injustice
to anseht as. "Well, the woman took the floor.

"Yes, we want to know if you mean, Father, that it may be wrong for a father." The priest was still
silent, and as the woman went on eagerly: "Let me tell you, the pastor would have: my husband
is against the king or the bailiff passed, and I would have hanged him from herunterschneiden,
but he would have received a decent burial, as his father before him, for the Ingmarsöhne fear no one,
and they need anything out of the way to go. But around Christmas time, God has placed peace between
animals and humans, and the poor animal was God's command, but we broke it, and therefore
we are now under God's punishment.

And, it is not for pomp and state in einherzugehen.

The priest stood up and walked towards the old woman. "It is quite right in what you say," he replied,
"You shall Euern own will and have." And he added, involuntarily, perhaps more to himself: "The
Ingmar're large-scale people."

With these words addressed to himself the old man up a little. And the minister looked for a
moment as the symbol of the whole tribe. He understood that at this heavy liquid and taciturn man had
given the power-century century, an entire parish to be the leader. "It comes to the Ingmarsöhnen
a good example to give the people," she said. Father and boys are now busy unpacking. "Outside,
open water! The first in the first years of the twentieth century, it was on New Year's morning
of 1900.

The clock showed almost the ninth hour, but in the parish in Svartsjö Wermland it was still almost
completely dark. The sun had not yet risen above long low forest
ridge.

Just as the bell rang, the door opened to the parsonage, and the priest came out to church to go to.
But when he went down the stairs, he stopped to wait for someone. He was a young and zealous
man, he stood and stomped the snow like an impatient horse.

At last, his wife was in the door.

She was amazed that he had taken the time to wait for her.

"That's nice that you've been waiting for," she said. - "No," replied the man, smiling, "that
is not beautiful. I want to talk to you about something. "Bells
of the churches began Svartsjöer The ringing when he said this.

He approached the woman approached and asked them if they hear that right now Bells Löfwik on
the other side of the lake and up there in Bro also rang?

"There is something beautiful about all these bells," said the minister. - "Yes," she said, "yes, it is."
- "Have you thought about that night every church throughout the New Year ushered in Wermland
have today? The large Erzschlünde have it called out in the dark
winter night, from the small chapel in Finmark just as the Domkirchenturm
in Karlstad.

"-" Yes, "she said," because I thought. "But not just in Wermland. ..

"said the minister. "All over Sweden last night, the church bells sounded, indeed, of the earth." -
"Yes, that is so great to be part of one," said the pastor, not knowing what a man was driving.
"The New Year , which was born last night, still has little else
experienced this as bells ringing, "continued the priest went.

"At first it was a little drowsy and intimidated in the clouds above and felt the deep darkness and could
not see how it would come. There he met the bell sound, which to him hinaufdrang: strong and vibrant
from the big cities where the churches are close to each other, less
monotonous, and, as touching the small scattered from village church.

I was there today, thinking about tomorrow, since we came home from the midnight church services.
When we went home after the church, as you have said something that
kept me awake.

"The woman knew immediately what he meant. On the way home they had the old chest and barred from
speaking sealed, MA Eberhard Berggren eighty years in the Svartsjöer church had made before the, with the stipulation
that they not be opened in the year nineteen hundred could before the New Year's Day. The
woman had said, they think it's wrong that they should be open and out of this place now. Everyone
knew that the chest is nothing else included as writings of unbelief and atheism. But the minister
had said that if the parish in his care taken and chest promised would even desire to meet
Eberhard Magister, one could not help to open it.

No one knew, too sure what it would actually be. "I have heard that the old Eberhard was an atheist,"
had replied the woman. - Yes, the pastor had heard. - "If I were you," the pastor insisted
on her opinion, "I would obtain that the community decides to leave
to the chest as she stands." - "No, but women," there was a priest
of the , "you might want to make me believe that this old Ekebykavalier
could be capable of a single man in his belief in God just to shake,
too?"

That was the pastor added. They did not believe that the writings were dangerous, but they thought it
was ugly, that his community to light should be drawn by a clergyman and Christian. It would be somewhat
objectionable in it. He could his parishioners at least suggest unopened
to have chest to.

"But
it's a dead man's will," was pastor answered the, and when the woman saw that she could not agree,
they had been silent.

When her now the Mann said that her words so early in the morning
had awakened him, as she was very glad and immediately asked if he
had gone over their thoughts to.

"That will depend on what I want to ask you now." - "Yes, I will
certainly give you my permission not to open this chest.

"- The priest laughed. - "Its not you shall be so certain," he said. "I woke up very early," continued
the pastor continued, "and rubbed to a match, immediately. The clock struck three, and the first thing
I thought was that tonight is the end
of the nineteenth century went on, and that we write now nineteen.
And I had to chime think of that night filled the, and the new-born
year, which lay there and listened. As I so half asleep was, I saw
clearly before me that the old year somewhere in the Far East on a pyre
had been burned, and the new year has been creeping out of the ashes
and had their wings spread out and was pulled in to take possession
of the world.

Now it probably weighs in
the bell sound of the monasteries and churches of Palestine, I thought.
It need not move the wing, then I thought. It keeps only stretched,
and then come the waves of sound and take it and weigh it from one
country to another.

Yes, it's up there and swinging
the weights and. In the darkness it does not know where it comes from.
All it hears is the sound of bells, and perhaps even church music, organ
sound and the steps of those who migrate to Christmas.

"The
new year will feel that it floats on holy ground," I thought. And I
felt quite touched, as I lay there. Now it is the St. Peter Church
in Rome has been rocked over, and it is the Alps to Germany hinaufgeflattert
about. Later in the day it is up to us to heraufschweben. "But while I thought
so, I was very soft feel, and there were your words back to me to mind.
So when the new year and Wermland Svartsjö hovered over come, then
it should be here to see a priest and his church, the writings of
the chest with an open unbelief.

And it
seemed to me very sad that it should look something as, after all the
beauty that it has experienced before. In Rome, the Catholics are the
holy door open and inaugurate the Pope see Jubeltor had, and here
in the north, it should make us see the bar open, doubt and denial
of God included.

The new year is to
get a bad opinion of us, "I said. "It is simply not to open this chest."
"You see well! I knew you would pass my party too, "said the pastor." It has not
missed it much, "said the priest," but it immediately got back to
me just how impossible it was against a dead man's will to act. Yes,
it was impossible - the one and the other: to open the chest as they
can be closed to. And I began to wonder whether there would be no way
out since. If you one thing long enough to reconsider, it is customary
finally find out what rights it is. I lay there and pondered for
hours. I thought everything through, what I knew of Master Eberhard
Berggren, to gain clarity about what he might have put them in freezer.

"Have
you released it so?" I dare say I released it, but I want to hear
your opinion too. "They know you already," the woman said stubbornly.
"That shalt thou say so definitely not," said the minister. "You should
first try the thing's way into you. You should try to Eberhard's idea to
put you in MA. I've done today morning. If you were an old man now,
I said to myself, if you'd Eberhard Berggren Magister, an old learned
man who does not believe in God! I tried to imagine that I would spend
whole life on my desk, incessantly thinking and writing.

I thought I had
for years in a corner of the gentleman sitting wing to Ekeby years,
books and papers around with me, - and life and jokes, singing and playing
were murmurs through the rooms, but I would very still and silent
behind a wall of books sat and worked.



It was a beautiful, calm morning when we embarked, and, lifting the anchor, took to our oars,
and pulled out through the deep channel, the captain standing at the bow and conning us through,
while I took the helm. The boat pulled well and steered well; we had yet to see what she could
do under canvas. After a pull of two hours we were clear of the reef, and out in the open sea.
We then laid in the oars, and commenced our preparations for hoisting the sail to a breeze,
which then blew from the southward. When all was ready, the men hoisted the sail, but in so
doing, a rope being foul, as I was attempting to clear it, I was tripped up, and fell with
my right knee on a spike, which entered deep, putting me to excruciating pain, and laming me
completely. I was obliged to sit down abaft, for I nearly fainted away. In the mean time the
sail was set, and the boat stood well up to it. She proved to be very stiff under canvas, which
was a source of great congratulation. My knee became so painful and stiff that I could not
move it; I took one of my shirts out of my bundle, tore it up into bandages, and put them on.
We had resolved to attempt to make New Providence, the largest of the Bahama group, where we
knew that there was a town called Nassau, and from whence we hoped to obtain some conveyance
to Europe; but we knew nothing of the port, or the inhabitants, or what trade was carried on
with them.

For several hours our little bark went gaily over the water, but towards nightfall the wind
shifted, and the weather looked threatening. We hardly knew how to steer, as we did not know
the position of the island which we had left, and now the wind heading us, we hauled up on
the larboard tack, with our head to the northward and eastward. As the sun went down, the wind
increased, and the sea ran fast. Our boat behaved well, till it began to blow very hard, and
then it took in so much water, that we were forced to bale.

We had reefed our sail, and made every thing as snug as we could, but the sea rising fast,
and the boat taking in more water, we considered it prudent to lighten her, which we did by
throwing overboard all the turtle. This we did without regret, as we were tired of eating them
for so long a while. The day broke, and there appeared every sign of bad weather, and the waves
now tossed and foamed too much for such a small craft as we were in. About noon we saw a vessel
on a wind to leeward of us, which was a source of great delight to us all, and we bore down
to her. We soon made her out to be an hermaphrodite brig, under her close-reefed topsails and
trysails. We ran under her counter and hailed. We perceived several men standing abaft, and
apparently they suspected us for a rover, for they had muskets and other weapons in their hands.
We told them that we had been shipwrecked, and the boat was sinking in the gale, and then we
rounded to under her lee.

There we remained for four or five hours, during which the wind and the sea went down very
fast, and the boat no longer took in water; but we had been all too much alarmed with the danger
in which we had been, to like to continue our voyage in her, and as we thought that we could
now go alongside with safety, we hailed again, and asked permission. After some parleying,
they threw us a rope, which we made fast to the boat, and lowered our sail, keeping off on
a broad sheer, as there still was a great deal of sea. They then entered into conversation
with us. I told them all that had happened, and inquired where the brig was bound to.

They replied, to James Town, Virginia. I asked them if they could give us a passage there,
as we were afraid to proceed in our boat; or if not, would they see us safe into New Providence.

The captain then came forward. He was a very dark man, dark as a mulatto, with keen small eyes,
and a hooked nose. I never beheld a more deformed and repulsive countenance.

He said, that he could not go to New Providence, as it was out of his way, and that we might
easily get there ourselves if we thought proper.

I replied, that the boat was not sufficiently large and seaworthy, and that we had already
nearly gone down, and if another gale should come on, we certainly should founder, and again
requested that he would take us on board.

"Have you any money to pay for your passage?" inquired he.

"Why," said I, "common charity and the feelings of a seaman towards sailors in distress should
be sufficient to induce you to take us on board, and not leave us to perish; but if you require
money," I replied, "we have more than sufficient to satisfy you."

"How much?" screamed out a lad of about fourteen, who was the very image of the captain in
miniature.

I did not reply to this question, and the captain then said, "What do you propose to do with
the boat?"

"Let her go adrift, to be sure," replied I.

"What have you got on board of her?" said he.

I enumerated, as well as I could recollect, the provisions and stores that we had.

"Well," replied he, "I will wait till it is a little smoother, and then we will clear the boat
and take you on board."

He then left the gangway, where he had been standing, and we continued to be towed by the brig.

"I do not like that fellow," said I to the Portuguese captain; "he appears, or pretends, to
take us for pirates, but he is more like a pirate himself."

"He looks like the devil himself," replied the captain, "and to ask people in our condition
to pay for their passage! He is a monster! However, we all have a few doubloons, thank Heaven."

About an hour afterwards, it being much more moderate, the captain of the brig told us to sheer
alongside, and that four of us might come out and the others remain in the boat till she was
cleared.

"I think you had better go," said I to the captain, "for with so much motion I never shall
be able to get up the side with my bad knee."

We then sheered the boat alongside, and the captain and three of our men got on board, but
not without difficulty. I saw them go aft and down below with the captain of the brig, but
I never saw them on deck again, much to my surprise, although we were more than half an hour
before they again hailed us, and told us to come alongside again. During this half-hour my
mind misgave me sadly that all was not right, from not seeing the Portuguese captain, or either
of the three men, and I took it into my head that the vessel was a pirate; and I knew if such
was the case, we should instantly be rifled, if not murdered. I took the precaution of taking
off the bandage from my knee, and having removed the diamond from my neck, I put it under my
ham in the cavity, which held it with ease, and then put the bandage on again over it, as I
thought they would hardly take a bandage off a bad knee to see if there was any thing concealed
beneath it. It was with difficulty that I contrived to get on board the brig, and as soon as
I had gained the deck, I was ordered to go down into the cabin; as I went aft, I looked round
for the Portuguese captain and the men, but could not see them. I contrived, with difficulty,
to get down into the cabin, and as soon as I was there I was seized by the arms and held fast
by two of the men, while others bound me with seizings.

As the captain was looking on, I inquired into the cause of this outrage. He replied, that
we were a parcel of rascally pirates, who would have taken his vessel if he had not been too
deep for us; I told him it was false, and that I could easily prove it, as we still had the
despatches on board with which we had been charged, and that I could show full proof that I
was the same person that I stated myself to be; that I very much feared that we had fallen
into the hands of pirates ourselves, but that I would have justice done as soon as we arrived
at James Town, without he intended to murder us all before we arrived. His answer was, that
he was too old a bird to be caught with such chaff, and that he would secure us and deliver
us up to the authorities as soon as he arrived. I replied, in great anger, that he would then
be convinced of his error, if it was an error, on his part; that his conduct was infamous,
and he looked like a scoundrel, and I believed him to be one.

"You call me a scoundrel, do you," said he, levelling a pistol at my head.

"You call us scoundrels, do you," cried the boy I have made mention of, and who was evidently
the son of the captain, taking up another pistol in his hand. "Shall I shoot him, father?"

"No, Peleg; not yet; we will pay them all when we get in. Take him away, and put him in irons
with the rest," said the captain; and I was immediately dragged forward between decks through
a door in the bulk-heads, where I found the Portuguese captain and three seamen already in irons.

"This is pretty treatment," said he to me.

"Yes, it is, indeed," replied I; "but I will make him smart for it when we arrive."

"Shall we ever arrive?" said the Portuguese captain, looking at me and compressing his lips.

"I say, my man," said I to the seaman who stood over us with a pistol and a cutlass, "who are
you; and what are you? Tell us the truth: are you pirates?"

"I never was yet," replied he, "nor do I mean to be; but our skipper says that you are, and
that he knew you as soon as you came alongside. That's all I can say about it."

"Why, if we are pirates, as he says, and he recognizes us, he must have been in pirates' company,
that is clear."

"Well; he may have been, for all I know," replied the man. "I don't consider him any very great
things; but he is our captain, and we must obey orders."

The man now brought forward the other three men who had been left in the boat. They told us
that the boat had been cleared; all the provisions, stores, sails, &c. had been taken out of
her;--a proof that she had been gutted and then cut adrift;--that all our bundles were down
in the captain's cabin, and that the ill-looking urchin, his son, had overhauled them, one
after another, and handed to his father all the money that he had found; that they had been
searched very carefully; and that they had heard the captain say that we were all to be sent
up, one by one, and searched in the same manner;--and so it proved. I was first taken aft to
have my pockets rummaged by the little villain, and as soon as I had been led forward and again
put into irons, the Portuguese captain and three other seamen were sent for and treated in
the same way. We inquired of the men what money they had in their bundles and about their persons.
They had each man four doubloons at Rio for wages, and the captain had about forty doubloons.
I had five hundred pieces-of-eight: so that, altogether, we had been robbed to the tune of
about four hundred pounds sterling, independent of our clothes, which were of some value to
us; that is, mine were, at all events.

The seamen who guarded us, and who relieved each other every watch, were not at all surly or
ill-natured. I asked one of them during the night watch whether he thought the captain would
take our lives.

"No;" said he, "we will not allow that. You may be pirates, as he says, although we do not
think you are; but if pirates, you shall have fair play; that we have all made up our minds
to. No hanging first, and trying afterwards."

I had a long conversation with this man, who appeared very much inclined to be sociable. He
told me that the vessel was named the Transcendant; that she sailed from Virginia to the West
Indies, and that sometimes she went to England; that the captain of her was also the owner,
but where he came from, or what he was, they did not know, except that he was a Virginian,--they
believed so, for that he had a tobacco estate there, which was carried on by his eldest son.
He called the captain a stingy, miserly fellow, who would sacrifice any man's life to save
a shilling, and that there were odd stories about him at James Town.

I was well satisfied with my conversation with this man, as it assured me that our lives would
not be taken, and I had no fear of the result upon my arrival at James Town, for, as I have
mentioned before, Mr. Trevannion had vessels which sailed to that port, and I well recollected
the names of the parties to whom the vessel and cargo were consigned.

On the following day the captain of the brig, followed by his ill-favoured son, came forward
and looked at us as we sat in irons, upon which I addressed him,

"You have put me in irons, Sir, when I threw myself upon your protection. You have robbed us
of our money to the amount of nearly 400l., and you detain our other property. I now again
desire that I may be released. I offered to convince you that I was a person of property, but
you refused to listen to me. Now, Sir, I will tell you that I am a partner in the house of
Trevannion, at Liverpool, and that we have vessels that trade between James Town and that port.
Our vessels are consigned to Messrs. Fairbrother and Wilcocks, of James Town, and on my arrival
I will soon prove that to you; and also not only make you surrender the property you have robbed
us of, but I will make you smart pretty handsomely for your treatment of us, that you may depend
upon." 

It counts up and down, from right and left, and moves the finger while she is one of one card
to another. Finally she remains seated, muttering to himself, as if she were not quite satisfied.
"Well, what you see, sister," asked the old woman Lagerlöf.

"Illness follows her," said Aunt Wennervik.

"So it must be all their life long toil.

"everyone must be wearing a cross," says the old woman Lagerlof,
"otherwise nothing will be right from one.

Since it will probably lead a quiet life, that child, if it will be sickly, and that is anyway
the best for the people.

"Aunt Wennervik puts his finger back on the cards and begins again to count. "There are many trips
and long before this girl," she says.

"And many times they have and their relocating move." "A rolling stone not covered with moss,"
says the old woman Lagerlof. It is not quite satisfied with the fact that the son's daughter so
one will be set out in the country and empire wanders about.

"I understand: if it is sickly, it will be poor also, and sent around
to relatives to be," she continues.

The bad has it that work and can not do useful "." You will all her life and work have to bother,
"said Aunt Wennervik according to a new account. "It you do not have to worry you, sister." Yes,
so then it is probably so that they earn their bread with strangers and the government often
has to change, "says the old woman sighed and Lagerlof, for it seems
to her that their lives are on the court has been sitting, that life
must be the worst of strangers at.

But as they always lived by is best to turn for all, face to light up her soon. "It gave you, too
only blessing brought in to his sister, stranger, "she said."

If they can also be a capable person, then there is no distress "She is her life not raise in tissue,"
says Aunt Wennervik, the nose in the cards, and so it filled out to explore the future that it hardly
makes clear what they prophesied. "She is much in books and papers have to do." The old lady
leans over Lagerlöf the cards as guide in all this chaos to find one. "She will have a lot to do
with books? You think, sister, that she married clergy is a poor,
of the parish into the other one must draw from and never comes to
rest, "threw them out."

But if it is just an ordinary man who treats them well ... Aunt Wennervik
raises his finger straight into the air and breaks them.

"Will you, sister, I tell you what it is," she asks. "Certainly I will," replied the old woman
Lagerlöf. "They will never marry." "So, so, she will never marry .. . Well, then you may be spared
many troubles. But you know, this is just not a good prophecy, which
you can hear me tonight now, sister.

But you can at least tell if they brave, good man is one? "Friendly and good will they be," said
Aunt Wennervik and looks back at the maps to see what they have to say on it. But the old woman
Lagerlof she interrupts a little dry, "I think, sister, you put the cards together now. I am
glad that at least I know that it is a decent man out.

This is really the only thing you need to know. "Oceola There is
a book that is Oceola.

Although it may be possible, I do not quite recollect, and that it does any other beautiful exotic names.
It is a book about Indians, as they say nowadays, but it's probably
not originally written for children, but was intended to be read by
great people.

I do not know who wrote it, I do not know when it was written, but
it is probably quite old, since there is more than forty years since
I had first seen it at times.

I can not say, how is it that the book its way into my home up there
took place in Värmland.

There was not one of the literary treasures of the house, which consisted mainly of poetry and quite
a few novels comprised only. Maybe it had brought a visitor, or had it, my aunt, who was a great
Romanvertilgerin, some borrowed from the neighbors.

But however that may be - one is sure that it on a beautiful day when I seven, eight years old,
am about, at home is on a table, and that my eyes fall upon it. I like to read. I care for each
day on a stool to sit next to mother, if she works at her sewing,
and her Nosselt "world history for women," read from.

We got through all seven parts are, but best I understand the first part with the many legends.
I can never stop me looking forward to when Odysseus returns home and the Free totschießt, but Hector
and Andromache's Farewell, I prefer to pass over, because I can not
read, without crying.

The Frithjofsage and Andersen's fairy tales and stories are also
my cadet Ståle good friends, but a novel I've never tried to read.

I also intend not at all, I wade through this thick book. It seems to me, as one would have to take
several years to the end of it to read, and I will look in only. But luck would have it, I have
just the place to pitch your , where the heroine of the book, the young, beautiful daughter
of a plantation owner who is surprised by an alligator swimming in the. I read how they will escape
and persecute you and floats in mortal danger. Never before has a book in me such a voltage offset.
I am breathlessly and read until the heroic young Indians came running
to her rescue and a terrible fight with the alligator that his knife
into the heart comes after.

Now I read page after page, as long as you leave me in peace. And as I am free again (for I am many
hours of the day engaged in teaching reading, writing and arithmetic to learn from one), I
return back to the table, where the novel is still, and read it. I am in a daze, completely
charmed. Day and night I think of the book. It's a new world that has opened me quite suddenly. All the
abundance of life to flow to me. There are love, heroism, good, noble people, low scoundrel, dangers
and joys, happiness and pain. There are artfully interwoven events that me in suspense and terror
enable.

Since everything is possible, of which a small child of seven, that silent mansion in Värmland was raised
by one to, never before has heard about. You put one of the adult inhabitants of the earth to
a star in the world space. I do not think it, this new World glowing
with zeal could examine, with greater interest, with a stronger sense
of how wonderful he is happy because he could get to know all this
Undreamt.

Henceforth I read all the novels that fall into my hands. It is difficult to say, how much
I knew about them, but an unheard of pleasure they prepared me. Now they have vanished from my
memory, the vast majority at least.

When I think back to that time surprised, I am well aware that everything we read made me what I just
found. But I understand that it was difficult for father and mother, something
I refuse . That ill-health, the aunt Wennervik I had predicted, had
already occurred.

One leg was weak, and for a long time I could not walk at all. We did not find it beneficial
for me that I was amused with physical exercises and games like other
children, but the parents saw it best when I am still behaved.

And then they realized now that I felt happy when I only book in his hand had one, they were
glad to be on way scatter could they tell me. But for me, the acquaintance with this Indian
book Oceola decisively the whole of life. It awakened in me a deep, strong desire, even something
as glorious create can. This book caused me the earliest childhood years knew that what I days
prefer to do was come in, novels was to write. I had, by brothers and sisters and servants is
probably what the old aunt Wennervik me on the was evening when I
was born, prophesied about my future.

No one was glad of the prophecy, only myself, - I was happy because she promised me that I would
have to do books and writing a lot. Something else by the time I did not ask. - - - I will also
tell that it was a few years ago when I had written a few books have fared, that I am in a railway
station bookstall small, thick book saw one that "Oceola" said.

It was printed in bad, ugly gray newspaper and in a shabby brown envelope tacked on, it was
a small price offered for sale for. I bought it, and as I result was in, I began to read it, see
whether it really wonder book of my childhood was that I had found again here. I also discovered
the scene with the alligator - it had to be the same book. But it was not. This was a miserable,
boring, poorly translated, outdated book. It was about the same as when one lover of his youth
as a frail patients see again the.

I was afraid, afraid that it is the image of the right, Oceola darken
could radiating the.

I had the greatest pleasure, it Kupeefenster throw to. But the I could not
do that. It would not do to throw the book out the window. considered Exactly,
touching was something in it that I such a book then joy had so much
to give.

It was allowed to come home to, but then I put it deep down in the
bookcase, and I venture to more considered before.

My Rose forest when I am nine years old, is one of the other evil prophecies of the Pastor Wennervik
true. I am a long journey.

I will be sent to Stockholm for my bad leg to look for healing, and
it is prescribed to me, the Health Department go through a gymnastic.

I'll stay a whole winter in Stockholm, and the treatment I feel very
good.

When I come home in the spring, I am as healthy as other children, and you know it you almost
do not know that I am lame. I live with close relatives who are very good to me, but that can not
stop that I was a little longing for home. I find it hard for me to get
used to city life. It is a burden that I every time I go out must wear
coat and hat.

I like not this world of stone streets, where children neat and quiet as the adults go their ways
have to as well. I see myself not even on the games of the Stockholm
children.

I can not go in her little carriage, and I do not care to play with dolls.
I feel stupid and in the company of these cute and lively children,
and I am very, afraid to be laughed awkwardly, because I speak with
accent Värmland.

But there are things in the capital, the wonderful description are all about and for any inconvenience
replacement . offer For example, Scott, my uncle all the novels of Walter in his bookcase, and he lent
me, so I course of the winter collection read to all the.

And then the theater at my relatives live! A faithful old servant, to the my uncle's household has
superintended before he married. She is too old to participate in any work, she sits day in and day
out in a nice easy chair in her own little room and knits and crochets. uncle is very kind to
her.

He is concerned that her time could be monotonous, and it often puts
on a theater ticket.

But when the old man goes to the theater, I may come along. My relatives have already discovered
that it gives me immense pleasure, and they are perhaps a little apprehensive, but leave out
all the old woman. My theater visits, moreover, cost nothing. The old servant Ursula says the theater
just a good word, and I may enter with. I get a seat, but must stand before her, but that does
not mean anything. In the theater, time passes so quickly that I was not tired at all, before everything is over
already. There are probably still people at the ausgetretnen steps and the narrow passages in
the old Opera house remember the.

And there are probably still one or the other, who remembers how it smelled in the hallways. I sometimes
abroad in any old theater, where the same theater smell still exists.
And if I feel it, I will meet the expectation of the salvation.

It happens to me as if I were a little child in front of the lodge door and stood back, waiting
for that the servant will come and catch up.

Ulla and I always sit in the front row of the second gallery.

    
    

We go way, not always in the opera, but we also go into the dramatic theater, but even there
we have the same place. In this way we see African "The", "Robert devil," the one "Freischütz,"
"The Värmland ""

Helen of Troy "The," The Women's School, "" The flowers greenhouse "in," My Rose wood "in the.
Again, this is a new colorful world in which I am led.

It's really good that I sat at my mother's sewing table and Nosselt
have read history.

How else could I find my way! But actually it is not entirely new. It's my whole Roman world, illustrated
so and in images is presented to me alive.

So they look, my noble savages, my knight in armor. How it dressed in a king. So take from a monastery.
In such a long gray coats walk around monks and nuns. I am storm-tossed seas, bright and tropical
landscapes knights get to know. And of course I take everything seriously bloody. I do not know that
the beautiful Helen is a one great joke. I believe that it happened was so real, when Helena
was stolen from Paris, though Nosselt has forgotten to tell it.

We have quite the same taste, the old man and me. We love beautiful scenery, gorgeous costumes
and great scenes, where swarms of people on the stage. And of course we have been mainly to the action.
From the song and the music we do not understand much. We are more bothered about it because it
is difficult for us to hear the words, and because we respect lose. From simple pieces that do not
have kings and knights appear in, we do not make us much, though I for my part, a popular play as
"The Värmland" very happy to have because it reminds me of home. But the old Ulla is dismayed
when they only farmers on the stage looks. It hurts me deeply by the observation that the beautiful
Helen, with its great royal host was something quite different after
all.

I feel
for my countrymen hurt me, but at bottom I am really their opinion. Meanwhile, the winter is over, and I
may go home after. And of course, haunts me the memories of everything I've seen, and I'll tell siblings
again and again. One day, when we made one or another reason have any homework, which falls
to us to a theater and that we could play a list of my pieces that
I've seen in Stockholm.

We decide on "My Rose" in the forest. Not because it is the prettiest thing I've seen, but it is
the easiest, the only thing we can dare to represent us.

It is a busy day for me. I.'m The one who studied the roles of performers and instruct them what to
say and do, should we not have a text book, but everything must be
so made, as in the memories I have.

I transform with the help of blankets and towels to the nursery in one stage. I choose the
costumes, I explain how the participants have to be groomed and made up. I'm the only one who
has some experience in these things. Before the evening everything is ready, and the play is staged.
Spectators are father, mother, aunt, governess, the housekeeper and some servants. They all sit
in a narrow doorway and can not see much of the stage. But never mind. They talk but indescribably
good. We have a young girl as a boarder in the house. She is very charming and is an old ball
gown my mother around in and play the lover: My Rose in the forest ". My eldest sister, who also twelve
years old, has very oldest father's uniform jacket with herausstaffiert
and plays the lover.

It is quite indescribably cute. It really has facilities for the acting profession. Our maid is
the role of housekeeper, and I've even taken it, old man playing a septuagenarian. It has old
man with long white hair in the play happen, and I choose this role because my hair is long and pure
white is very. We have a big, big success. I wonder what would have, Hedberg said Franz-old who,
if he had seen listed in this way, his piece, but even he might have been happy with us. But from
that day on, I do not dream only of it, to write novels.

Now I will also write plays. I long to grow up to be so I have more on the sit and school table
mean with Lessons and tasks waste time must not. How dark it is under the lime tree, it's a beautiful spring
evening, and I go in the little grove beyond the garden up and down.

As soon as I one of the tortuous paths to the border of the grove, come on, I propose to meet the dazzling
light. Wide corridors spread out before me, trembling in the sunshine and the damp mist that rises
from the frischgepflügten fields. On one side lights up the air like crimson, the other looks like
it when they were gold dust filled. Inside, under the trees there is strangely dark. They have recently
foliage completely, I am the green darkness still not used to the
summer under rule maintains them in the.

All of a sudden, just as I was out of the light in front of the grove again, the trees kick in, rhymes
come to me a few on the lips: How dark it is under the lime tree, How anxious still blow the winds.
What now? What was that? I stand there and hardly dare to breathe. Those are rhymes. That's a verse
Can I make verses? I'm fifteen years and I've read all the poets, the home we have: Tegner, Runeberg,
Mrs. Lengren, Stagnelius, Vitalis, Bellman, Wallin, Dahlgren. But never before has it occurred
to me that I could write poetry. make verses - this is something high and holy. Thoughts in
rhyme and meter down to his - that is a gift that only the elect of mankind is destined. But
now I have also put together a few rhyming lines.

I repeat them to me once after another. I am speaking in an undertone. I sing it softly. But I do
not try to add more lines. I'm too surprised about what has happened to me. Imagine that
you are begging child growing up are poor as, and all of a sudden
certainty of gain to be a royal child, Imagine that you were blind
and suddenly seeing, will that you have been dirt poor and one rich
in art, that you cast out and friendless and were unexpectedly large,
warm love encounter!

Imagine what you will to a large fortune from unexpected, and you'll think you can but no more
than I felt at that moment. I could rhyme. I could make verses. I had
the same gift as Tegner, Runeberg, Wallin.

I would like one of them. I had so long been thought to write novels and plays. But that's not
as strange as write poetry. This is just pretty and amusing, but verses - this is the high and
noble. This is the Glorious and Adorable. This is the Allerwunderbarste. I conceal my people the great
discovery. But I go all day like in a frenzy about, hear nothing, what they tell me, but totally
wrong answer. I see us all on that day at dinner in front of me. There sit my father and mother.
Here are my sisters, aunt, educator.

And since I am myself, small and pale, with long hair, just like
all other children.

Her father, as usual, the word. He jokes with his aunt and governess.
It is her cheerful and lively, but the conversation moves around
the alleralltäglichsten things.

What would they say, the others, they know one of the wild hopes would have if, in my mind the
storm, what worries me is Aunt Wennervik prophecy. It was nothing like this before, and strange that
I should be something big. But who writes verses, who is a size that is almost more than one king. I'm
afraid that I might have been mistaken, that I did not have the gift
of the gods.

I
repeat myself, the little rhyme, and again I feel immensely proud, infinitely happy. When it is
night at last, I will try, what this new administration can, and
I start quite comforted to write a poem.

I lay awake until morning, and tie and untie word to word. I add verse to verse, and have until the
morning a lot of verses ready. But the poem is not the strange thing for me. The strange thing
is that I have the gift of rhyme that I belong to the elect. In the
years to write the time and the wrong time, early and late, day and
night verse.

The majority of these poems is destroyed, and the little that was left
is rather weak.

From all this writing there is only one small piece in which I have my joy, and that I sometimes repeat
itself, if I under the darkness of the trees stand and light of sun above ground and valley
blaze which saw how dark it is under the lime tree as anxious still the winds blow. The entrance examination,
I am twenty-three and find myself again in Stockholm, in the same
friendly home which received me when I was a nine year old child.

I am in the capital came to the Higher Teachers Seminar to be reflected
in.

I have made the test, yesterday was the last day, and now that I'm sitting, waiting to hear
if I had gone through, whether I would institute included in the.

This is a long day. It is almost impossible to bring him over. We're almost a whole week has been verified,
and that was not as bad as I had feared. There were days full of great tension, but it is always
taken something.


"Let us, while it is yet dark, go round so as to get on the opposite side of the rocks where
we were concealed," said the Portuguese. "If they are there, we shall take them by surprise."

Keeping just within the wood, we walked half a mile to the southward, and then emerged just
as the day was breaking, and made for the rocks. As soon as we arrived, we examined very cautiously
before we entered the cleft, but there was nobody there, and the canoe was safe.

"They are not here," said I; "where can they be?"

"They cannot be far off," said the Portuguese; "I suspect they are hidden somewhere, and intend
to surprise us while we are launching our canoe, and when our muskets will be out of our hands."

"I agree with you; let us now wait at some little distance from the rocks till broad daylight,
we shall then be secure from surprise."

We did so, and when the sun rose we looked well round, but could see nobody. We entered the
cleft, and were about to lay down the muskets, and lay hold of the canoe, when I perceived
a small piece of rock to drop down. This caused me immediately to suspect the truth, and I
cried to the Portuguese to come back with me. He did so, and I told him that I was certain
that the Indians had climbed the rock, and were lying down on the top of it, ready to pounce
upon us.

"Depend upon it, they must be there," said he, when I mentioned the falling piece of rock;
"let us walk round and see if we can discover them."

We did so, but they were too well concealed.

"But what must be done now?" said he. "It is useless our attempting to clamber to the top of
the rock, for no one could do it with a musket in his hand."

"No," replied I, "that is certain; and if we attempt to bring the canoe out of the cleft, they
may drop down upon us."

"I think," said he, "that if we were to go in and take the tow-rope in our hands, which is
several yards long, we might haul out the canoe by it, and when once it is clear of the cleft
they cannot move without our seeing them."

"We will try, at all events," replied I. "Do you stay on the watch while I get hold of the
tow-rope and bring it out."

The Indians did not expect this manoeuvre, it was clear. Still keeping the muskets in our possession,
the butts on the sand, and the muzzles resting on our shoulders, we laid hold of the tow-rope,
and by great exertion hauled the canoe several yards away from between the two rocks. We then
paused for breath after a minute or two, with our eyes fixed upon the top of the rock to see
if they moved, and then we hauled it at least a hundred yards further off, when for the first
time I perceived that the bow and arrows were not in the canoe, and that they must have been
taken by the Indians.

"Then we must haul again," said the Portuguese, when I stated this to him, "till we are out
of bow-shot. Let us put the muskets into the canoe, and drag it as fast as we can."

We did so, and gained another hundred yards before we stopped, when an arrow was discharged
from the summit of the rock, and buried itself in the sand close to my feet.

"Haul again," said the Portuguese, "we are not out of shot yet."

Again we exerted ourselves, and gained another hundred yards, during which two more arrows
were discharged, and one of them went through the left arm of my comrade; but as it was through
the fleshy part, and did not touch the bone, it did not disable him. A third arrow was sent
after us, but did not reach us, and we knew that we were out of distance.

"Cut the shaft of the arrow, and draw it through the arm," said the Portuguese.

"Not now," said I; "they will perceive me doing so, and will think that you are disabled. That
may induce them to rush upon us, thinking they have only one man to deal with."

"Well, it's no great matter," replied he; "we must now drag our canoe down to the water and
launch her, if they will let us. We have outwitted them so far."

We now turned the head of the canoe towards the sea, and slowly dragged her down; our eyes,
as may be supposed, constantly kept upon the rock, to see if the Indians would move, but they
did not. They perhaps felt that they had no chance with us, having all the fire-arms and an
open beach in our favour. We launched our canoe without further interruption on their part,
and in a few minutes, taking care to be out of arrow distance, we passed the rock with our
head to the northward. When about two miles off, we perceived the Indians to descend from the
rock and walk away into the woods.

"Let us praise God for this miraculous escape," said I to the Portuguese.

"I do; and the holy patron saint who has preserved me," replied the Portuguese captain; "but
I am still heavy at hart. I feel that we have escaped only to come into more strange and fresh
calamity. I shall never get back to Lisbon, that I feel convinced of."

I tried all I could to encourage him, but it was of no avail. He told me that the presentiment
was too strong, and could not be overcome by any argument. Indeed he appeared to have allowed
the idea so to have taken possession of his mind, that his reason became enervated; and having
heard how the Indians burnt their prisoners, he talked about martyrdom at the stake, and rising
up to Heaven in great glory, there to be received by the whole body of saints and legions of
angels.

"What is the use of our thus labouring at the paddle?" said he; "why not at once let us go
ashore and receive the crown of martyrdom? I am ready; for I long for the hour, and shall rejoice."

I said all I could to keep him quiet, but it was useless, and such was his insanity, that he
gradually neared the shore by steering against me with his paddle, so that I could not prevent
it. I had drawn the shaft of the arrow through his arm, and he appeared to feel no pain. I
expostulated with him at his keeping the canoe so near to the shore, but he smiled and gave
no reply.

We had the stream against us, and made but little way, and it vexed me very much to hear him
talk so loud as he did, as the Indians must have heard him, and I thought would follow us along
the coast; but he ransacked the whole book of martyrs, telling me how one had his body sawn
in two, another was pinched to death; this one burnt, that tortured; every variety of death
he entered upon during the whole of that day without ceasing.

I ascribed much of this to the pain arising from the wounded arm, notwithstanding which he
paddled with as much vigour as ever. As the night came on, I entreated him to hold his tongue,
but it was in vain, and I felt assured that his reason was quite gone. He continued to talk
loud and rave without intermission, and I now considered our fate as sealed. We had no water
in the boat or provisions of any kind, and I proposed that we should heave-to and catch some
fish, telling him that if he talked we should scare them away.

This made him quiet for a time, but as soon as we had hooked four or five fish, he again commenced
his history of the glorious martyrs. I prayed him to be silent, for a short time at least,
and he was so for about four or five minutes, when he would break out into some ejaculation,
which I immediately stopped. At last he could talk no more for want of water; his lips were
glued together, and so were mine. Nevertheless, I continued paddling for two hours more, when
I found by the canoe grounding that he had steered her on the beach. There was no help for
it. We landed and went in search of water, which we found about half of a mile from where our
canoe was beached.

We drank heartily, filled the calabash, and were returning to the canoe, when he again commenced
talking as loud as ever. I was in great anger, but I put my hand before his mouth, beseeching
him in a whisper to be quiet. As we were doing this, we were suddenly sprung upon and seized
by several Indians, and in a minute were bound hands and feet.

"I knew it," cried the Portuguese; "I knew it would be so. Well, I am prepared; are not you,
my good friend?"

I made no reply. I felt that in his madness he had sacrificed his own life and mine also; but
it was the will of Heaven. The Indians left two to guard us, and went down to the canoe, returning
with their muskets. I soon perceived that they were the same whom we had escaped from the night
before, and the one who had spoken a little English when we were first captured now came to
me and said, "White man paint like Indian, steal gun--ugh."

When the Indians had returned from the canoe, our feet were unbound, and we were again led
away by the leather thong which was fast to our arms. The Portuguese now began to find his
tongue again, and talked incessantly, the Indians not checking him; from which, it was evident
that they were on their own domains. After four hours' walking they kindled a fire, and went
to repose as before; but this time they took our knives from us, and bound our legs so tight
that they gave us much pain. I did not expostulate, as I knew it was useless. My companion,
as the thong entered into his flesh, seemed pleased, saying, "Now my martyrdom is commencing."

Alas! poor man; but I will not anticipate. We travelled three days, during which we were supplied
with a small portion of parched Indian corn every day, just sufficient for our sustenance,
and no more. On the fourth morning the Indians, after an hour's travelling, set up some shrill
and barbarous cries, which I afterwards discovered was their warhoop. These cries were replied
to by others at a distance, and in about a quarter of an hour afterwards we found ourselves
close to a number of wigwams, as they are termed (the Indian houses), and soon surrounded by
a large party of men, women, and children, who greeted us with taunts and menaces.

We were led into a larger wigwam than the others, where we found several Indians of grave aspect
assembled, and a man who could speak English was ordered in as interpreter. He asked us where
we came from in the canoe. I replied, that we came from the south, but we had been wrecked
in a big ship, and had taken the canoe, which we found on the beach. They asked no more questions.
We were led out, and in about an hour afterwards the Indian who had spoken English to us when
we were captured, came up with two others and painted us black, saying, "The white man like
paint. Black paint good."

I did not know till afterwards that this painting black was a sign that we were condemned to
death, but so it was. They took off our trowsers, the only garments we had on, and left us
naked. To my surprise, they did not take the diamond which was sewed up in leather from off
my neck; but as I learnt subsequently, the Indians are much given to conjurors and charms,
wearing many round their own necks and about their persons, and they respect the charms that
their enemies wear, indeed are afraid of them, lest they should be harmed by having them in
their possession. We remained in a wigwam during that day, with guards over us. The following
day we were led out and cast loose, and we found all the Indians, women and children, ranged
in two lines, each holding in their hands a club or stick, or rod of some description or another.

We were led to the end of the row, and looked about us in amazement. They made signs to us
which we did not understand, and while we were remaining in doubt as to what was to be our
fate, an old woman, who had been menacing and grinning at me for some time, and who was the
most hideous animal that I ever beheld in the shape of a woman, thrust a straw into my eye,
giving me most excruciating agony. I was so carried away by rage and pain, that I saluted her
with a kick in the stomach, which laid her doubled up on the ground, expecting to be scalped
for so doing the next moment. On the contrary, the Indians laughed, while some of the other
women dragged her away.

At last the interpreter came, and from him we learnt that we had to run the gauntlet, and that,
as soon as we gained the large lodge where we had been examined by the old Indians on the day
previous, we were safe, and that we must run for that as fast as we could. The Portuguese,
who was still as mad as ever, was then pushed on; he would not run, but walked, glorying in
the blows, which showered down upon him like hail; and, moreover, he prevented me from running
for some time, till I got past him. I had been cruelly punished, and was mad with pain, when
I perceived a tall, gaunt Indian waiting for me with a heavy club. Careless of life or consequences,
I rushed past him, and as I passed I threw out my fist with such impetus, that, hitting him
under the right ear, he fell senseless, and it appears that he never rose again, for the blow
killed him; after which I at last gained the council-house, and was soon afterwards followed
by my companion, who was streaming with blood. We were then led away, and tied by our necks
to two stakes about twenty yards apart, and there we remained for the night.

The Portuguese passed the night in singing; I passed it in silence and prayer. I felt convinced
that we were to die, and I feared that it would be by fire or torture, for I had heard something
of the manners and customs of these Indians. I made my peace with God as well as a poor sinner
could, prayed for mercy through Jesus Christ, sighed my adieu to Amy, and made up my mind to die.

Early the next morning the Indians brought firewood, and placed it in bundles round the stakes,
at a distance of about fourteen yards from the centre. They then went to the Portuguese, tied
his hands behind him, and exchanged the rope by which he had been fastened for a much stronger
one, one end of which they fastened to his wrists behind him, and the other to the stake. As
they left me as I was before, it was plain that the Portuguese was to suffer first. They then
set fire to the piles of wood which were round the stake, which were too far from him to burn
him, and I could not imagine what they intended to do, but you may conceive that I was in a
state of awful suspense and anxiety, as I was well convinced that his fate, whatever it might
be, would be my own.

During these appalling preparations, the Portuguese appeared as if he really enjoyed the scene.

"Now, my good friend," said he to me, "you shall see how I can suffer for the true faith. Even
a heretic like you shall be converted by my example, and I shall ascend to Heaven with you
in my arms. Come on, ye fiends; come on, ye heathens, and see how a Christian can suffer."

Much as I felt for him and for myself, I could not lament that his reason had left him, as
I thought his sufferings would be less; but his exclamations were soon drowned by a loud yell
from the Indians, who all rushed upon my unfortunate companion.

For a moment or two they were crowded so thick round him that I could not perceive what they
were doing, but after that they separated, and I beheld him bleeding profusely, his ears and
nose having been cut off, and a broken iron ramrod passed through both cheeks. And now a scene
took place, at the remembrance of which, even now, my blood curdles. Some caught up the burning
sticks and applied them to his flesh, others stuck him full of small splints, the ends of which
they lighted. The Indian warriors shot at him with muskets loaded with powder only, so as to
burn him terribly on every part of the body. The women took up handfuls of lighted ashes and
showered them down on him, so that the ground he trod upon was a mass of burning embers, and
he walked upon fire.

Red-hot irons were now brought forward, and his body seared in all parts, his tormentors seeking
out where they could give him the most pain. At last one applied the hot iron to his eyes,
and burnt them out. Imagine my feelings at this horrid scene--imagine the knowledge that this
was to be also my fate in a short time; but, what is more strange to tell, imagine, Madam,
my companion not only deriding his torturers, but not flinching from the torture; on the contrary,
praising God for his goodness in thus allowing him to be a martyr for the true faith, offering
his body to their inflictions, and shouting manfully; but such was the behaviour of my insane
friend, and this behaviour appeared to give great satisfaction to the Indians.

For nearly two hours did this torture continue, his body was black and bloody all over, and
the smell of the burning flesh was horrible; but by this time it appeared as if he was much
exhausted, and, indeed, appeared to be almost insensible to pain. He walked round the stake
as before upon the burning coals, but appeared not to know when further torture was applied
to him or not. He now sang hymns in Portuguese in a low voice, for he was much exhausted. Soon
afterwards he staggered and fell down with his face upon the burning embers; but even the flesh
of his face grilling, as it were, appeared to have no effect upon him. An Indian then went
up to him, and with his knife cut a circle round his head, and tore off the whole scalp, flesh
and hair together, and when he had done this the old woman whom I had saluted with a kick before
I ran the gauntlet, and who had his ears hanging on her neck to a string, lifted up a handful
of burning coals, and put them upon his bleeding head.

This seemed to rouse him. He lifted up his head, but his features were no longer to be distinguished,
as his face was burnt to a black coal, and he said, "Take me, ye holy saints. Angels, receive
me," and, to my great astonishment, he again rose on his legs, and tottered round and round
for a few minutes. At last he sank down, with his back against the stake, and one of the Indians
cleaved his brain with his tomahawk; and thus ended the life and the misery of my unfortunate
companion--and it was now my turn.

"Well," thought I, "it is but two hours of suffering, and then I shall be beyond their malice.
May God have mercy upon my soul."

The same preparations were now made for me. I was fastened with the stout rope, and my arms
tied behind me, the wood was fired, and one of the chiefs was haranguing the Indians. He finished,
the low yell was given, when the old woman whom I had before mentioned ran up to me, and saying
something which I could not understand, put her hand upon me.

When she did this the other Indians, who were about to rush on me, drew back with signs of
disappointment on many of their wild countenances. The chiefs then went into the council-house,
leaving me tied where I was, and the wood burning around me, the mass of Indians standing about
as if waiting the decision of the chiefs. After a time three Indians, one of whom was the interpreter,
came up to me, and, kicking aside the burning poles, cast me loose.

I asked the interpreter what he was about to do. He replied, "You kill Indian here (pointing
to his own ear), you kill him dead. Squaw lose husband--want another--take you--stead of him."

They led me to the council-house before the chiefs. The old woman whom I had kicked was there.
It was her husband that I had killed by the blow behind the ear, and she had claimed me in
his stead, and, according to the custom of the country, her claim was allowed, and I was made
over to her, and received into the tribe. Strange custom for a woman to marry the murderer
of her husband, but still such it was, and thus did I find myself freed from the stake when
I least expected it. The principal chief made me a speech, which was interpreted, in which
he told me that I was now the husband of Manou, and was one of their own tribe; that I must
be strong in war, and must hunt and procure venison for my family.

They then washed off the black paint, and after a few more speeches and ceremonies, I was handed
over to the hideous old hag, whose neck was still decorated with the two ears of my companion.
To say that I would have preferred the torture would be saying too much, but that I loathed
the creature to excess was certain. However, I said nothing, but allowed her to take me by
the hand and lead me to her wigwam. As soon as we were in she brought me some venison, which
I ate greedily, for I had had nothing for thirty-six hours. She then offered me the leggings,
as they call them, which the Indians wear, and the other portions of the Indian dress, which
probably belonged to her late husband. I put them on, as I was glad to cover my nakedness,
and, worn out with walking and exertion, I first thanked God for my miraculous preservation,
and then lay down and fell into a deep sleep.

It was not until the next day that I awoke, and I then perceived the old woman rubbing oil
upon the deep cuts made in my wrists and shoulders by the leather thongs. She again set meat
before me, and I ate heartily, but I looked upon her with abhorrence, and when she attempted
to fondle me, I turned away and spit with disgust, at which she retired, grumbling. I now had
leisure to reflect. I passed over with a shudder the scenes that had passed, and again returned
thanks to God for my deliverance. I called to mind how often I had been preserved and delivered.
From my bondage in Africa, from my imprisonment in the Tower, from my hopeless slavery in the
mines, from our wreck on the island, and now, after passing through such dangers, from an almost
certain cruel death by torture. Truly did I feel how grateful I ought to be for that Providence
which had so often preserved me, and that my only reliance in future must be in its gracious
protection.

But here I was, married to a woman I detested, and living with barbarians; and I said to myself,
"That kind Heaven which has already done so much for me will, in its own good time, also release
me from this thraldom. In the meanwhile let me not murmur, but be thankful." My squaw, as they
call their wives among the Indians, now came up to me and offered to paint me, and I thought
it advisable that she should, as I felt that the sooner I conformed myself to their customs
the more chance I had of making my escape, which I was resolved to do the first opportunity.

As soon as she had completed my toilet I walked out of the wigwam, that I might look about
me and be seen. The Indians, who were sauntering about, met me with a friendly "Ugh," which
appeared a favourite monosyllable with them. At last I met with the interpreter, and began
to converse with him. I asked what nation I was now belonging to, and he said the Massowomicks.
I asked how large their country was, and he told me much which I could not understand, except
that it appeared to me a very powerful nation.

I was very careful of mentioning the English, or any thing about their settlement, although
I was anxious to know where it was; but I asked him whether they were at war with any other
nation. He said "No, they had been at war with other tribes, but that they had all made peace
that they might join against the white man, who had taken their land."

"I am an Indian now," said I.

"Yes, and you will forget the white man," said he. "You have now red blood in your veins. You
marry Indian wife, you all the same as one Indian."

I said, "War Indian beat his wife, suppose she talk too much?"

"Plenty talk, plenty beat," said he.

"Suppose my wife talk too much and I beat her, what Indian people say?"

"Say good. Suppose wife too old, you take two wife, one more young."

I was very much pleased with this conversation; not that I had the slightest idea of profiting
by his information by taking another wife, but I felt such a disgust at my present one, and
had already seen what a fury she could be, that I was resolved, if necessary, to show her that
I was master, for I felt certain that if I did not, she would soon attempt to master me, and
so it turned out.

On the third day she took down a bow and arrows and made a sign to me to go out, and, I presumed,
bring back food; and as there was nothing in the house, I thought the request reasonable. I
therefore went out of the wigwam and found that many of the young men were going out on a hunting-party,
and that I was to join them. We set off and travelled for six hours before we came to the hunting-ground,
and as the deer passed me I thought of Whyna and my hunting excursions with her. At first she was so astonished
that she remained motionless. It was summer time, and the garden of the abbot John was so full
of flowers that one blue, and red and yellow in the eyes flicker when you looked into it. But
soon smile showed itself in great contentment on the face of robbers
mother, and she began go down a narrow corridor that ran through many
small flower beds between.

In the garden was the lay brother who was a gardener's assistant, and weeded out the weeds. He
was the one in the half-wall had left open the door to the trash
heap before throwing to Register and couch grass.

When he with her five brats behind him in the pleasure garden saw robbers enter the mother, he
rushed to meet them at once, and ordered them to wander off. But the old beggar woman went on as if
nothing had happened. She let her eyes up and down hiking, soon saw rigid white lilies to the
ones on a bed spread, and soon the ivy, the monastery wall height was climbing the, and troubled
himself not in the least to the layman. The lay brother, she thought could not understand him. Because
he wanted to arm take on in order to exit turn to. But the robbers mother his intention noticed
as she threw him look to one, before it rebounded. She had her begging bag with a bent back
went under, but now it was directed to their full height. - "I" am
the mother from robbers Goinge forest, she said, "touch me only if
you dare."

And it looked as if they would be as safe for these words, to move away from in peace, as
if she had announced that she was the queen of Denmark.

But the lay brother ventured it, disrupt it, although he now that he knew who she was, she said, rather
meekly. - "You must know, Robber Mother," he said, "that this monastery is one, and that no
woman admits of is the land in, a wall to get behind them. If you no way go of you, then the monks
angry with me because I forgot to close the gate, and they may be of monastery and garden chase me.
"But such pleas were the robbers mother wasted.

The continued through the rose beds and looked hyssop at the lilafarbnen flowers covered with
was, and the Kaprifolium, the full red-yellow flowers, grapes hang. As did the lay brother
no other remedy as a monastery to walk to and to call for help. "He
came two sturdy monks back, and the robbers mother saw at once that
it is now Ernst was.

She stood legs apart in the way and began to shrill voice scream out, what a terrible revenge
on the monastery to take would be to them if they do not stay should
Lustgarten in as long as they wanted.

But
monks believed that they did not need to fear, and they thought only
to drive them.

Then came the shrill cries from robbers mother, rushed at her and scratched and bit, and it also made
all her shoots. The three men soon realized that she was superior
to them.

There was nothing else to them than to go into the monastery and to get reinforcements. As they
ran down the path that led into the monastery, she met the Abbot
John, who had rushed to see to what a noise the would be the one Lustgarten
heard of.

Then they had to admit that the robbers mother Goinge forest in the monastery reached was the
out they had not been able to sell them, and wanted to relieve create. But Abbot John she blamed
that they violence would have applied, and forbade them to call for
help.

"He sent the two monks of their work back, and although he old, frail man was a, he took only
the lay brother in the garden. The Abbot John then arrived and went Robber Mother as before
between the beds around. And he knew enough not to wonder about. He was quite certain that the robbers
mother never her life a pleasure garden seen in had. But how that might be - they went between all the
little flower beds around, every other kind of alien and strange
flowers were planted with one, and looked at them as if they were
old friends.

It looked as if she had often seen periwinkle and sage and rosemary. Some smiled at her, and
others again she shook her head. Abbot John loved his garden more
than all the other things that are transitory and earthly.

So wild and the robbers also looked grim mother, he could not resist
but to find out favors that she had three monks fought with, to look at him
in silence.

He went on to her and asked her kindly if she liked the garden. The
robbers mother turned violently against Abbot John, for it was ambushed
and attacked taken only, but when she white hair and his bent back,
saw his as she answered gently, "When I first saw her, it seemed to
me that if I saw something would have more beautiful before, but now
I see that he was with another do not measure, can I know.

"Abbot John certainly had a different response expected. When he heard
that the robbers mother Lustgarten knew one of the more beautiful
would, as his own, covered his wrinkled cheeks of a weak with redness.

The gardener's assistant, stood near, began at once Robber Mother rebuke
the.

'This is Abbot John, robbers mother, "he said," who himself with
great diligence and effort and near the flowers for his garden collected
is far from.

We all know that in the entire schoo American country richer Lustgarten is no and it is for
you, you all love years in the wild wood house that bad to truly,
works to master his to want.

"" I want to master no one, neither him nor you, "said the robber mother," I'm just saying if
you could see Lustgarten from that to which I think, you would any flower that stands here tear,
and throw it as a weed. "But the gardener's assistant was no less
proud of the flowers as Abbot John himself, and when he heard these
words, he began to laugh derisively.

"I can - probably imagine that you are only as chatter, robbers mother
to irritate us," he said, "will be to me a beautiful garden that you
are under and juniper bushes in Goinge wood furnishings have fir thee:
I wanted to my soul conspire that you never behind garden walls have
been're a general.

"The robbers mother turned red with anger, that she be so suspicious,
and she cried:" It may well be that I am from behind a garden wall
stood my day Never But monks, the holy men are you should probably
know that the great Goinge forest every Christmas night in a pleasure
garden is transformed to our Lord and Savior to celebrate the birth.

We, the forest live in, so now have any years happen to see, and this pleasure garden I have
beautiful flowers looked so much that I did not dare to raise their hands to break them. "As
a lay brother laughed even louder and stronger," It is even easy
for you to stand and to brag about such things, what people do not
see a can.

But I can not believe it could be else than a lie be something that the forest of Christ to
such a body party should be at birth, where unholy people live the way
you and the robber father. - "And what I say is, but equally true,"
replied the robber mother, "like that you dare not, it would, Christmas
night in the woods to get one in to see it." The lay brother did it by
answer again, but Abbot John was meant by a sign be silent.

For Abbot John had been childhood tell hear its
been that the forest on Christmas night in a party dress bag itself.

He had often longed to see it, but it He was never successful. Now he began
the robbers mother to ask even eagerly, to call, they should it Christmas
time in the den of thieves send for the order.

When one of her children sent only way to show him, then he would ride up alone, and he would never
never betrayed, but contrary as rich reward in, as in his power would
only. The robbers mother at first refused, because she thought of the
robber father and the danger to which he surrendered it when Abbot
John Cave come could be her in but it was still the desire to show
him that the pleasure garden, which she knew better either as his,
her overpowering in, and they gave way.

"But more than a companion to take you must not," she said. "And you
must not no ambush and trap for us, as surely thou art a holy man."
This promise Abbot John, and so did the robbers mother.

But
John Abbot ordered the lay brother, no one betrayed what had been agreed
upon now. He feared that his monks, when they of his plan should learn
something, as he was not allowed, would man the old one, upstairs
den of robbers to move to.

He himself would also plan a human soul
betrayed. But then it happened that Archbishop Absalon of Lund traveled
came out and spent a night in Ovid. Now when Abbot John was the garden
was his, he remembered visiting the robbers mother of, and the lay brother,
who walked there and worked, heard the abbot to the bishop robber
father told of that now so many years to outlaw the forest lived
had in, and a blank check for him, asked that he lead a life under
other people could honestly again. - "How it is now," said John Abt,
"his children grow up to be criminals does more than he is himself
one, and you up there in the forest it will soon get a whole band
of robbers to do with."

But said Archbishop Absalon that he was the evil robbers not honest people in the country wants
to let go on.

It is best for all if he would remain there in his forest. Then was Abbot John, and began eagerly
to the Bishop of Goinge forest to tell, of every years around the
robbers cave in at Christmas decorations dress. "If these thieves are not
worse than that God's glory show them wants to," he said, "they may
well not be bad to the people to experience the grace." But the archbishop
knew of John Abt to answer. - "As far as I can promise you, Abbot
John," he smiled and said, "on which day you are always a flower from
the garden in the Christmas forest Goinge send me, I want a blank
check for all troubled give you, you pray for me like it.

"The lay brother saw that Bishop Absalon nor does he even on the
history of the robbers mother believed, but Abbot John did not notice
it, but thanked Absalon for his kind promise, and said that the flower
he wanted to send him already.

*
* * * * Abbot John sat will through his, and the next Christmas Eve
at home, he sat not in Ovid, but was on his way to Göinge. One of the
wild boys of the robbers mother rushed him before, and the convoy
he was the boy who was in the pleasure garden the robber's mother
had spoken.

Abbot John had all the autumn of very longed to take up this trip,
and was delighted to now very much that they had come about. But
different it was with the lay brother who followed him. He was abbot
John of the heart dear and would another left have liked not to accompany him
and watch over him, but he did not mean that they have a Christmas
garden to face get would, he thought of nothing else than that the whole
case was one, the robbers mother with cunning Abbot John paid had
the great, that he and her husband into the hands fall.

While Abbot John northwards to the forest area rode, he looked like
everywhere institutions have been taken to celebrate Christmas.

In every farming village was one fire in the bath-house, so she afternoon bath warm is for.
from the storage chambers were large quantities of meat and bread,
the huts worn in, and from the antennas boys came with large straw
sheaves, the spread will be ground to about.

When he the little village church rode past, he saw the priest and his clerk that were fully occupied,
the best fabrics to hang with them, they'd only be able to muster, and when he to the road,
came to the monastery Bosjö led by, he saw the arms of the monastery
with great bread loaves and long candles daherwandern they Klosterpforte
have had the to.

As abbot Johannes these Weihnachtszurüstungen saw all because he spurred haste to. For he thought
that his wait for a bigger party, any other party should as a. But the boy whined and complained
when he saw them even in the smallest hut were preparing to celebrate Christmas. And he was always
anxious begged and begged and Abbot John to return, and do not volunteer
hands of the robbers to enter into.

But Abbot John rode on, without having to worry about his actions. He soon had the plain behind
him and came up into the lonely, wild forests. Here the road became
worse.

He was actually only a stony, needle-strewn path, and not helped them bridge does not bridge across rivers
and streams. The longer they rode, the colder it was, and deep inside the forest with snow,
the ground was covered. It was a long, bumpy ride. They cut on steep and slippery side trails
off the road and pulled over marsh and swamp, penetrated by wind
breaks and thicket.

Just as the day ran out, led the robber boy she has a glade, the
tree was surrounded by high, of bare deciduous trees and green pine
trees.

Behind the lawn there arose a rock wall, and in the cliff, they saw
a door made of rough planks .

Now John Abbot noted that they were on target, and he dismounted.
The child opened the heavy door, and he looked in a poor mountain
cave with bare stone walls. The robbers mother sat on a block fire
that was burning on the floor, the walls were deposits of pine twigs
and moss, and one of them was the robber and his father slept. - »In. Come
you out there," cried the robbers mother, without getting up. "And
take horses with which to enable them outside in the cold night perish
not," Abbot John was now boldly into the cave, and the lay brother followed
him .

Since it looked poor and needy from
even, and nothing was done to celebrate Christmas. The robbers mother had
brewed, nor baked, they had not swept, nor scoured.

Your children lay on the ground around a cauldron, from which they
ate, but it was nothing like watery porridge.

But the robber's mother was just as proud and confident as any comfortably
installed peasant woman. - "Sit down here now by the fire, Abbot John, and warm
thyself," she said, "and if you brought food for the journey, so
eat, because what we cook here in the forest, you will probably not
relish.

And when you're tired from the ride, you can get these deposits stretch
out and rest on one. You need not fear that you you might oversleep.
I'm sitting here at the fire and watch, and I want to wake you already,
so you get to see what you're out riding.

"Abbot John
obeyed the robbers' mother in all things and took knapsack out his.
But it was after the Ritt tired so that he could hardly eat, and as
he stocks extended was located, and dozed him. The lay brother was
a resting-dependent too, but he dared not sleep, because it close
eye on the robber's father have a wanted to prevent some of these
stand up and tied John Abt.

Gradually, however, the fatigue gained such
power over him that he was asleep. When he awoke, he saw that Abbot John
had left his camp and now sat by the fire and the robbers mother
pflog converse with. The robber father was sitting next to it. He
was a tall thin man, and looked and gloomy from cumbersome.

He returned Abbot John's back and it looked as if he wanted to show
that he was talking was listening to.

Abbot John told the robber mother of all the Weihnachtszurüstungen he road
had seen, and he reminded her of the Christmas festivities and merry
Christmas games that they probably would have gone through their youth
in, as they in peace among men was still alive. - It's a shame that
your children never dressed in the village street frisk or Christmas
straw play in may, "said Abbot John.

The robbers mother had given him first, and gruffly answered briefly, but so gradually, she was
subdued, and listened eagerly.

Suddenly turned the robber father against Abbot John and held his clenched fist to the face. - "You
miserable monk, you come here to lure my wife and children?" Do not you know that I am a man
without peace and not leave these woods like?

"Abbot John looked him straight in the eye unflinchingly. - "My will is to you by the Archbishop
to give carte blanche one," he said. No sooner had he said this, as the robber father and the robbers
mother laughing pitched. They knew only too well what grace a forest bandit by Bishop Absalon
had expected. - "Yes, if I charter from Absalon get one," said the
robber father, then I promise you, even as much as a goose to steal
more never.

"The gardener was annoyed it very much that the robbers Pack presumed to
Abbot John laugh, but this itself, it seemed to be quite satisfied.

The man had hardly ever peaceful and mild with monks on Ovid sit see his him as he is now among
the wild robber people saw.

But suddenly jumped robbers mother to. "You sit here and babbling, Abbot John, "she said," and
we forgotten the forest to look for. Now I listen to in our den,
as the Christmas bells ringing.

Hardly
was this said than jumped all, and they provide for, but in the forest was still dark and grim
winter night. The only thing we heard was also the sound of bells,
the gentle south wind was one of hergetragen. How is this bell sound
forest can wake the dead? 'm Abbot John. For now, he middle of the darkness
of the forest stood, it seemed to him much more impossible than before, that this
purchase could Lustgarten one.

But bell a few moments rung had as "light flashed suddenly through the forest. A moment later it was as
dark as before, but then came the light. It fought like a luminous mist
between the dark by trees.

And as much as it could, that the darkness in weak dawn passed. Since
saw Abbot John, as the snow disappeared from the ground, as if someone
had pulled away a carpet, and the earth began to green.

The fern shoots stretching out his rolled up like Bishop bars. The Erika, who grew up on the
rocky ground, and Porsch, who was rooted in the marsh, clothed in
fresh green rapidly.



"But is it not very expensive keeping a sloop on purpose, with men to have her in charge?"
inquired I, to hear what she would say.

"The sloop lies at anchor, without a soul on board," said she. "No one ever comes up this river.
I believe Captain Smith, who made the settlement, did do so once. There is another river, about
twenty miles farther down, which is occasionally frequented by buccaneers, I am told--indeed,
I know it, for my husband had more to do with them than perhaps was good for his soul, but
this little river is never visited."

"Then your servants take her round?"

"Yes; I leave one in charge, and take two with me."

"But you have but two."

"Not till you came--one died; but now I have three," and she smiled at me again.

If I had not been so afraid of affronting her, I certainly would have said to her, "Do any
thing, I beg, but smile."

I said no more on that point. She called Jeykell, who was in the tobacco-shed, and desired
him to kill a couple of chickens, and bring them in. We then entered the cabin, and she observed--

"I don't doubt but you are tired with so much fatigue; you look so; go and sleep on one of
their beds; you shall have one for yourself by night."

I was not sorry to do as she proposed, for I was tired out. I lay down, and did not wake till
she called me and told me that dinner was ready. I was quite ready for that also, and I sat
down with her, but the two convict servants did not. She ate in proportion to her size, and
that is saying enough. After dinner she left me, and went with her two men on her farming avocations,
and I was for a long while cogitating on what had passed. I perceived that I was completely
in her power, and that it was only by obtaining her good-will that I had any chance of getting
away, and I made up my mind to act accordingly. I found a comfortable bed, of the husks of
Indian corn, prepared for me at night, in an ante-room where the two servant-men slept. It
was a luxury that I had not enjoyed for a long while. For several days I remained very quiet,
and apparently very contented. My mistress gave me no hard work, chiefly sending me on messages
or taking me out with her. She made the distinction between me and the convicts that I always
took my meals with her and they did not. In short, I was treated as a friend and visitor more
than any thing else, and had I not been so anxious about going to England, I certainly had
no reason to complain except of my detention, and this, it was evident, it was not in her power
to prevent, as, until the sloop went away with the tobacco, she had no means of sending me
away. One day, however, as I was walking past the tobacco-shed, I heard my name mentioned by
the two convicts, and stopping, I heard James say,

"Depend upon it, that's what she's after, Jeykell; and he is to be our master, whether he likes
it or not."

"Well, I shouldn't wonder," replied the other; "she does make pure love to him, that's certain."

"Very true; every thing's fierce with her--even love--and so he'll find it if he don't fancy her."

"Yes, indeed:--well, I'd rather serve another ten years than she should fall in love with me."

"And if I had my choice, whether to be her husband or to swing, I should take the cord in preference."

"Well, I pity him from my heart; for he is a good youth, and a fair-spoken and a handsome,
too; and I'm sure that he has no idea of his unfortunate situation."

"No idea, indeed," said I to myself, as I walked away. "Merciful Heaven! is it possible!" And
when I thought over her conduct, and what had passed between us, I perceived not only that
the convicts were right in their supposition, but that I had, by wishing to make myself agreeable
to her, even assisted in bringing affairs to this crisis.

That very day she had said to me: "I was very young when I married, only fourteen, and I lived
with my husband nine years. He is dead more than a year now."

When she said that, which she did at dinner, while she was clawing the flesh off the bone of
a wild turkey, there was something so ridiculous in that feminine confession, coming from such
a masculine mouth, that I felt very much inclined to laugh, but I replied,

"You are a young widow, and ought to think of another husband."

Again, when she said, "If ever I marry again, it shall not be a man who has been burnt on the
hand. No, no, my husband shall be able to open both hands and show them."

I replied, "You are right there. I would never disgrace myself by marrying a convict."

When I thought of these and many other conversations which had passed between us, I had no
doubt, in my own mind, but that the convicts were correct in their suppositions, and I was
disgusted at my own blindness.

"At all events," said I to myself, after a long cogitation, "if she wants to marry me, she
must go to James Town for a parson, and if I once get there, I will contrive, as soon as extra
constables are sworn in, to break off the match." But, seriously, I was in an awkward plight.
There was something in that woman that was awful, and I could imagine her revenge to be most
deadly. I thought the old Indian squaw to be bad enough, but this new mistress was a thousand
times worse. What a hard fate, I thought, was mine, that I should be thus forced to marry against
my will, and be separated from her whom I adored. I was a long while turning over the matter
in my mind, and at last I resolved that I would make no alteration in my behaviour, but behave
to her as before, and that if the affair was precipitated by my mistress, that I would be off
to the woods, and take my chance of wild beasts and wild Indians, rather than consent to her
wishes. I then went into the cabin, where I found her alone.

"Alexander," said she (she would know my Christian name, and called me by it), "they say widows
court the men, and that they are privileged to do so" (I turned pale, for I little thought
that there was to be an explanation so soon); "at all events, whether they are or not, I know
that a woman in my position cannot well expect a young man in yours to venture without encouragement.
Now, Alexander, I have long perceived your feelings and your wishes, and I have only to say
that mine are such as yours" (oh, I wish they were, thought I), "and therefore you have but
to ask and to have."

I was mute with fear and despair, and could not find a reply to make to her.

"Why do you not answer, Alexander? Do you think me too forward?"

"No," stammered I; "you are very kind, but this is so unexpected--so unlooked for--so unhoped
for--I am so overcome."

Observe, Madam, how strangely the sexes were changed. I was the woman in this instance.

"I should like to consult my friends."

"Consult your fiddlesticks," replied she, quickly. "Who have you got to consult? I hope, Alexander,"
said she, setting her broad teeth together, "that you are not trifling with me?"

"Indeed, I never should think of trifling with you, mistress," replied I. "I feel much obliged
to you for showing such a preference for me."

"I think, Alexander, that you ought; so now then, if you please, give me your answer," replied she.

"Had I been prepared for your kindness, I would have done so at once, but I have many serious
questions to put to myself, and if you please, we will renew the subject to-morrow morning.
I will then tell you candidly how I am situated; and if after that you do not withdraw your
proposal, I shall be most happy to be yours as soon as we can go to James Town to be married."

"If," replied she, "you mean to insinuate, Alexander, that you have a wife in England, that
is of no consequence in this settlement; for those who live here are free from all English
marriages; and as for going to James Town, that is quite unnecessary. If the people in the
settlement were to wait for a parson when they married, they would never be married at all.
All that is necessary is, that we shall draw up an agreement of marriage, on paper, sign it,
and have it witnessed. However, as I perceive that you are flurried, I will wait till to-morrow
morning for your decision."

My mistress then rose from her stool, and went into her chamber, shutting to the door with
more emphasis than was at all agreeable to my nerves. I walked out into the open air to recover
myself, and to reflect upon what course I should take in this awkward and dangerous dilemma.
Marrying was out of the question--but how to avoid it? It was almost like being stopped by
a highwayman. He says, "Your money or your life." My mistress's demand was, "Marriage or your
life." There was but one hope, which was to escape that very night, and take my chance in the
woods, and so I resolved to do.

I did not go in till dark; my mistress was in her own room; the two convicts were sitting by
the fire. I took my seat by them, but did not speak, except in a whisper, telling them that
their mistress was not well, and that we had better go to bed, and not talk. They stared at
me at the idea of the mistress being ill; they had never known her to complain of any thing
since they resided with her; but the hint was sufficient. They went to bed, and so did I with
my clothes on, watching the crevices of the door of her room to see if her lamp was out. In
about half an hour the little thin beams through the chinks of her door disappeared, and then
I knew that she had gone to bed. I watched two hours more before I ventured to stir. The convicts
were both snoring loud, and effectually drowned any slight noise I might make in moving about.
I went to the locker, secured all the cold meat for provision, took down one of the muskets
and ammunition-belts, and having put the latter over my shoulders, I then took the musket in
my hand and crept softly to the door of the cabin. Here was the only difficulty; once out,
but five yards off, and I was clear. I removed the heavy wooden bar, without noise, and had
now only to draw the bolt. I put my finger to it, and was sliding it gently and successfully
back, when my throat was seized, and I was hurled back on the floor of the cabin. I was so
stunned by the violence of the fall, that for a short time I was insensible. When I recovered,
I felt a great weight upon my chest, and opening my eyes, found my mistress sitting upon me,
and giving orders to the convicts, one of whom had already lighted the lamp.

"For mercy's sake, get off my chest," said I, in a faint voice.

"Yes, I will, but not yet," replied my mistress. "Now, James, hand them to me."

James handed some chains to his mistress, who, turning round as she sat on my body, made the
manacle at the end of the chain fast round my ankle. This went with a snap-spring, which could
not be opened without a key belonging to it. At last she rose off my body, and I could breathe
free. She then called to the convicts, saying,

"Go both of you into the tobacco-shed, and wait there till I call you out. If I find you one
foot nearer to us, I'll flay you alive."

The servants ran off as fast at they could. When they were gone, my mistress said,

"So you were about to escape, were you? You would avoid the chances of matrimony, and now you
have other chances which you little dreamt of."

"I thought it was the wisest thing that I could do," replied I. "Since I must be plain, I am
sacredly betrothed to another person, and I could not even for you break my faith. I meant
to have told you so to-morrow morning, but I was afraid it would annoy you, and therefore I
wished to go away without giving you any answer."

"Well, Sir, I offered to be your wife, which would have made you my lord and master. You refuse
it, and now I make you my slave. I give you your option; you shall either consent to be my
husband, or you shall remain as you are, and toil hard; but any time that you think better
of it, and are willing to embrace my offer, you will be free, and I will be as a wife in subjection."

"So you say," replied I; "but suppose I was to make you angry after I married you, you would
do to me as you have done now. I may, perhaps, one day get free from this chain, but, once
married to you, I am a slave for ever."

"You may think otherwise before long," replied she; "in the mean time, you may walk out and
cool yourself."

She then returned to her room, and I rose, having determined to walk out and cool myself, as
she proposed; but when I was on my legs, I found that to the other end of the chain, which
was very heavy, and about two yards long, was, riveted an iron ball of about thirty pounds
weight, so that I could not walk without carrying this heavy weight in my hands, for it could
not be dragged. I lifted up the iron ball, and went out of the house. I was no longer afraid
of her. I was in too great a rage to fear any thing. As I calmed, I considered my case, and
found it to be hopeless; as I thought of Amy, and the many months of hope deferred, I wept
bitterly; and I had no consolation, for the reader may recollect that I lost my Bible when
I was sent on shore, naked almost, by the rascally captain of the Transcendant.

I had now been twenty months away from Liverpool, and I felt as if my chance of seeing her
that I loved was indeed hopeless. I might remain chained in such a solitude for years, or I
might expire under her barbarous treatment, for I fully knew what I had to expect. However,
I was resolved. I prayed fervently for support and succour in my time of trouble, and became
more composed. I remained out the whole of the night, and watched the rising sun. The two convicts
came out to their work, and shrugged their shoulders as they passed me, but they dared not
speak to me.

My mistress at last came out. She commenced with abuse, but I gave no answer. She tried soothing,
but I was mute. At last she became frantic in her passion, hurled me away from her, and after
being dreadfully beaten, I fell to the ground. She put her foot upon my neck, and she stood
there, looking like a fury. She loaded me with epithets, and then of a sudden went down on
her knees by me, and begged my pardon, calling me her dear Alexander--her life--entreating
me to accede to her wishes. Never was there such a tigress in love before, I really believe.

"Hear me," replied I; "as long as I am chained, I never will give any answer upon the present
subject, that I swear."

She rose from my side, and walked away.

It is impossible, my dear Madam, for me to describe what I suffered from this woman for more
than six weeks, during which she kept me chained in this way--at one time entreating me, the
next moment kicking me, and throwing me down. I had no peace--my life became a burden to me,
and I often entreated her, in mercy, to put an end to my sufferings. I also had my paroxysms
of rage, and would then spurn her, spit at her, and do every thing I could, and say all that
I could imagine, to show my hatred and contempt. At other times I was sullen, and that always
annoyed her. She would bear my reproaches patiently--bear any thing, so long as I would talk;
but if I remained obstinately silent, then, in a short time, her fury would break forth. I
pitied her, notwithstanding her ill-treatment, for the woman did love me (after her own fashion)
most intensely.

It was on the seventh week of my confinement on the chain, that one morning very early, as
I was lying in the tobacco-shed, for she had turned me out of the cabin, I perceived among
the trees, which were about three hundred yards from the cabin, two Indians, in what is called
their war-paint, which is a sign that they were on a hostile excursion. I remained perfectly
quiet, and well concealed, that I might watch them. The convicts had more than once told me
that the Indians would attack us, in consequence of an insult which my mistress had offered
to their chief, with whom her husband had been so friendly; and when they stated what had passed,
I agreed with them that they would not fail to resent the insult as soon as they could. I had
therefore always been on the look-out, but had never seen any Indians before. My mistress,
to whom I had, in our days of sweet converse, spoken about them, always laughed at the idea
of their attacking her, and said that they might come if they liked. She had made every preparation
for them, as she had loop-holes stuffed up with moss just below the roof of the cabin, from
which you could fire down upon them till they were within four yards of the cabin, and other
loop-holes, from which you might shoot them when close to; the window and door were impregnable,
and provided that we were once in the cabin, there was no doubt but that a serious, if not
effectual, resistance might be made. That the Indians were reconnoitring the cabin was evident,
and that they did not do so for nothing was equally certain. After a while, during which I
made out six of them, they fell back in the wood, and disappeared. The dog at that moment came
out to me, and it was probably the sight of the dog which made them retreat, as they feared
that he would have given notice of their being so close to us. I waited till the convicts came
out, and then I went into the cabin, and said,

"You drove me out of the house last night, and I come to return good for evil. As I lay in
the tobacco-shed, I saw six Indians in the wood, to the east of the cabin, reconnoitring, and
I have no doubt but that you will be attacked this night, so I give you notice."

"And you hope that, by this fear of their attack, you will be set free, is it not?"

"It is perfectly indifferent to me whether I am or not. I have often asked you to put an end
to my misery, and as you have not done it, I shall bless those Indians for the friendly act;
a blow of a tomahawk will release me, if you will not."

"Well, then, let them come with their tomahawks," replied she, "and I will protect you from
them, for no one shall release you but myself."

"As you please," replied I; "I have done my duty in telling you what I have seen, and you may
take precautions or not; for myself I care nothing."

So saying, I lifted up my ball of iron and went away out of the door. I remained out of doors
the whole of the day, and therefore did not know whether my mistress took any precautions or
not, but I told the two convicts what I had seen, and advised them not to go far from the cabin,
as they would run great danger.

They inquired of me where I had seen the Indians, and I pointed out the spot in the wood, after
which they went away. I was certain that the attack would be on this night, as there was no
moon till three hours before daybreak; and as it was very dark, it would probably take place
in the early part of the night. I had made up my mind what I would do, which was not in any
way to defend the cabin while chained, but, when I was freed, I would fight to the last, so
that I might be killed where I stood, and not be taken alive and tortured.

I did not go out from home all that day, and, to my surprise, I was not molested by my mistress.
At dark she called the convicts, but they did not answer; she came out to look for them, and
asked me whether I had seen them.

I told her that I had not seen them for two hours, and I had thought that they were in the house.

"Did you tell them about the Indians?"

"Yes, I did," I replied, "and stated my opinion that they would attack us this night, and I
advised them not to go far from the cabin, or they might be cut off."

"Then the cowardly sneaks have run off to the woods, and left us to defend ourselves how we can."

"I shall not defend myself," replied I. "I shall stay here where I am. I wait for death, and
will not avoid it."

"Come into the house," said she, abruptly.

"No," replied I, "I will not."

"You will not," said she, and catching up the chain and ball in one hand, with her other arm
she caught me round the waist, and carried me into the house.

"Well," replied I, "it is only deferring it a little longer; they will force their way in it
at last, and I will die here."

"Wait until they arrive," replied my mistress. "But do you mean to say that you will not help
to defend the house?"

"Certainly not, as long as I am chained as a slave," replied I.

My mistress made no reply, but busied herself with barring the door and window. She then placed
the table and stools so that she might stand upon them and fire out of the upper loop-holes;
pulled the moss out of the loop-holes; took down the muskets--of which there were six--from
their rests, examined the priming of those which were loaded, and loaded those which were not.
She then got out a supply of powder and ball, which she put ready on the table, brought the
axes out, that they might be at hand, examined the water-jars to ascertain whether the convicts
had filled them as she had ordered, and then, when all was prepared for defence, she removed
the lamp into the inner room, leaving the one we were in so dark, that the Indians could not,
by looking through the chinks or loop-holes, discover where the occupants of the cabin might
be. All these arrangements she made with the greatest coolness, and I could not help admiring
her courage and self-possession.

"Is there any more to be done, Alexander?" said she, in a mild voice.

"Where is the dog?" replied I.

"Tied up in the tobacco-shed," said she.

"Then there is no more to be done," replied I; "the dog will give you notice of their coming,
as they will first occupy the tobacco-shed as an advanced post."

"Alexander, will you promise not to escape if I set you free?"

"Certainly not," replied I. "You set me free for your own purposes, because you wish me to
help to defend your property; and then, forsooth, when the Indians are beat off, you will chain
me again."

"No, no; that was not my feeling, as I sit here alive," replied she; "but I was thinking that,
if forced to retreat from the cabin, you would never be able to escape, and I never could save
you; but they should hack me to pieces first."

"Answer me one question," said I. "In a time of peril like this, would you, as a conscientious
person, think that you were justified in retaining in such fetters even a convict who had robbed
you? And if you feel that you would not, on what grounds do you act in this way to a man whom
you profess to love?--I leave it to your conscience."

She remained silent for some time: when the dog barked, and she started up.

"I believe I am mad, or a fool," said she, sweeping back her hair from her forehead.

She then took the key of the manacle out of her dress, and released me.

"Alexander"--

"Silence!" said I, putting my hand to her mouth, "this is no time to be heard speaking. Silence!"
repeated I, in a whisper, "I hear them, they are round the house."

I stood upon one of the stools and looked through a loop-hole. It was very dark, but as the
Indians stood on the hill, there was clear sky behind them as low down as their waists, and
I could perceive their motions, as they appeared to be receiving orders from their chief; and
they advanced to the door of the cabin with axes and tomahawks. My mistress had mounted on
the table at the same time that I had got on the stool. We now got down again without speaking,
and each taking a musket, we kneeled down at the lower loop-holes which I have described. On
second thoughts, I mounted the stool, whispering to her, "Don't fire till I do."

The Indians came to the door and tapped, one asking in English to be let in. No reply was given,
and they commenced their attack upon the door with their axes. As soon as this aggression took
place, I took good aim at their chief, as I presumed him to be, who was now standing alone
on the hill. I fired. He fell immediately.

As I leaped from the stool my mistress discharged her musket, and we both caught up others
and returned to the loop-holes below. By this time the blows of the axes were incessant, and
made the cabin-door tremble, and the dust to fly down in showers from the roof; but the door
was of double oak with iron braces, and not easily to be cut through; and the bars which held
it were of great size and strength.

It was some time before we could get another shot at an Indian, but at last I succeeded, and
as his comrades were taking the body away my mistress shot another. After this the blows of
the axes ceased, and they evidently had retreated. I then went into the inner room and extinguished
the lamp, that they might not be able to see us--for the lamp gave a faint light. We returned
to the table, and loaded the muskets in the dark.

As I put my musket on the table, my mistress said, "Will they come again?"

"Yes;" replied I, "I think they will; but if you wish to talk, we had better retreat to the
fire-place: there we shall be safe from any shot."

We retreated to the fire-place, and sat down on the ashes; it just held us both, and my mistress
took this opportunity of embracing me, saying--

"Dear Alexander, if I had a thousand lives, I would sacrifice them for you."

"We have but one," replied I, "and that one I will devote for your defence; I can do no more."

"Who did you fire at?" said she.

"The chief, as I believe, who was on the hill giving orders. He fell; and I think that he fell
dead."

"Then depend upon it they will retreat," said she.

"I think not; they will be revenged, if they possibly can; and we must expect a hard fight for it."

"Why, what can they do? They never can break through the door, and when daylight comes we can
shoot them by dozens."

"Depend upon it," said I, "they will try to burn us out. The wind is high, which is all in
their favour, and I suspect they are now gone to collect firewood."

"And if they do fire the cabin, what shall we do? I never thought of that."

"We must remain in it as long as we can, and then sally out and fight to the last; but every
thing depends on circumstances. Be guided by me, and I will save you if I can."

"Be guided by you!"

"Yes! Recollect I am not in chains now, and that although you have all the courage of a man,
still you have not been so accustomed to warfare as I have been. I have long been accustomed
to command, to plan, and to execute, in times of peril like this."

"You have great strength and courage; I little thought what a lion I had chained up," replied
she. "Well, I love you all the better for it, and I will be guided by you, for I perceive already
that you have the best head of the two. Hark! What is that?"

"It is what I said," replied I; "they are laying firewood against the logs of the cabin on
the windward side--(this was on the side opposite to the door). Now we must try if we cannot
pick off some more of them," said I, rising and taking a musket. "Bring the stools over to
this side, for we must fire from the upper loop-holes."

We remained at our posts for some time without seeing an Indian. They had gone back to the
wood for more combustibles. At last we perceived them coming back with the wood. I should imagine
there were at least twenty of them.

"Now, take good aim," said I.

We both fired almost at the same moment, and three Indians fell.

"Get down, and give me another musket," said I to my mistress.

She handed me one, and, taking another for herself, resumed her station. We fired several times;
sometimes with and sometimes without success; for the Indians went away twice for firewood
before they had collected what they considered sufficient. By this time it was piled up to
the eaves of the cabin, and our loop-holes were shut up; we therefore went over to the other
side, where the door was, to see if there were any Indians there, but could not see one. We
had been on the look-out for about five minutes, when the crackling of the wood, and the smoke
forcing itself through the crevices between the logs, told us that the fire had been applied,
and the wind soon fanned it up so that the flame poured through every chink and loop-hole,
and lighted up the cabin.

"We must retreat to the fire-place," said I. "Come quickly, or we shall be shot."

"Why so?" said she, as she did as I requested.

"They will peep through the loop-holes on the side of the cabin where the door is and see us
plainly, until the cabin is filled with smoke, which it soon will be."

"But tell me what we are to do now, for I feel if this smoke increases we shall not be able
to speak to one another."

This she said about five minutes after we had remained standing in the fire-place, with our
heads up the chimney.

"Perhaps it will be as well," replied I, "that I do speak so. This fierce wind drives the smoke
to leeward in volumes, but the great burst of smoke will be when the roof is well on fire.
It is now burning fiercely on the windward side, but we must wait till the lee-side has caught,
and then the volume of smoke will be greater. The great point is to hit the precise time of
opening the door, and escaping shrouded in a volume of smoke. If too soon, they will perceive
us, and we shall be shot down; if too late, the roof will fall upon us, and we shall be smothered
or burnt. We had better now, I think, leave this, and be all ready. Our best weapon, if we
have to fight our way, will be an axe. Let us each take one, and, by now going near to the
door, and putting our mouths to one of the loop-holes, we shall breathe freer, and unbar the
door at the right time. Do you agree with me?"

"You are right," said she; "you are a man, and I am a woman."

We left the fire-place, and having felt for and found the axes, we went near the door, and
put our mouths to the loop-holes below; and the smoke passing above them enabled us to breathe
freer. I looked out and perceived that, with the exception of about six yards to leeward of
the cabin, there was a dense volume of smoke rolling along the ground for a long distance,
and that if we could only once gain it without being perceived, we should probably be saved.
I therefore unbarred the door, drew the bolt, and held it in my hand, all ready for a start.
The cabin was now in flames in every part as well as the roof. I touched my mistress, and then
took her hand in mine, watching at the loop-hole. At last, when the heat was almost unbearable,
an eddy of the wind drove back the smoke close to the lee-side of the cabin, and all was dark.
I jumped up, opened the door, and dragged my mistress after me; we walked out into the black
mass completely hid from our enemies, and then running hand-in-hand as fast as we could to
leeward in the centre of the smoke, we found ourselves at least one hundred yards from the
cabin without the Indians having any idea that we were not still inside. As we retreated, the
density of the smoke became less, and I then told her to run for her life, as the Indians would
discover that the door of the cabin was open and that we had escaped--and so it proved. We
were still a hundred yards from the wood when a yell was given which proved that they had discovered
our escape, and were in pursuit. We gained the wood; I turned round a moment to look behind
me, and perceived at least forty or fifty Indians in full pursuit of us--the foremost about
two hundred yards distant.

"Now we must run for it, mistress," said I, "and we must no longer take hands. We shall have
to thread the wood. Away! We have no time to lose."

So saying, I snatched my hand from her and sprang forward; she following me as fast as she
could, more fearful, evidently, of my making my escape from her than of her own escape from
the Indians. As soon as I was a hundred yards in the wood, I turned short to the right, and
fled with all my speed in that direction, because I hoped by this means to deceive the Indians,
and it was easier to run where the wood was not so thick. My mistress followed me close: she
would have hallooed to me, but she had not breath after the first half-mile. I found out that
I was more fleet than she was. Whether encumbered with her clothes, or perhaps not so much
used to exercise, I heard her panting after me. I could easily have left her, but my fear was
that she would have called to me, and if she had, the Indians would have heard her, and have
known the direction I had taken, and, when once on my trail, they would, as soon as daylight
came, have followed me by it to any distance; I therefore slackened my speed so as just to
enable my mistress to keep up with me at about ten yards' distance; when we had run about three
miles I felt certain that she could not proceed much further: speak she could not, and as I
ran without once looking behind me, she could make no sign. I continued at a less rapid pace
for about a mile further. I did this to enable her to keep up with me, and to recover my own
breath as much as possible previous to a start. The voices of the Indians had long been out
of hearing, and it was clear that they had not discovered the direction which we had taken.
I knew, therefore, that they could not hear her now, if she did cry out as loud as she could,
and I gradually increased my speed, till I could no longer hear her panting behind me; I then
went off at my full speed, and after a few minutes I heard her voice at some distance faintly
calling out my name. "Yes," thought I, "but I have not forgotten the ball and chain; and if
you thought that you had let loose a lion while we were in the cabin, you shall find that you
have loosed a deer in the woods." I then stopped for a few moments to recover my breath; I
did not, however, wait long; I was afraid that my mistress might recover her breath as well
as myself, and I again set off as fast as I could. The idea of torture from the Indians, or
again being kept confined by my mistress, gave me endurance which I thought myself incapable
of. Before morning I calculated that I had run at least twenty miles, if not more.

With the perspiration running down me in streams, and hardly able to drag one leg before the
other, I at last, just about daybreak, gave it up, when I threw myself on the ground, and dropped
out of my hand my axe, which I had carried the whole way. I lay there for more than half an
hour, tormented with thirst, but quite unable to move. At last I recovered; and, as I well
knew that the Indians would divide in parties of three or four, and hunt every part of the
woods, and by daylight probably discover my track, I rose and prepared to resume my toil, when,
looking round me, I perceived that I was exactly on the spot where I had followed the deer,
and had fallen in with the Jolly Rover, as he termed himself, who had pointed out the way to
the plantations. I turned and saw the river below, and as he had told me that the Indians never
came there, I resolved to go to the river, where, at least, I should find shell-fish and water.
I did so; and in half an hour arrived at the skirts of the wood, and found that the river was
about four hundred yards from me and clear of trees at the mouth for some distance. I went
down to the river, which ran swiftly out, and I drank till I was ready to burst. I then rose
on my feet, and walked along its banks towards the mouth, thinking what I should do. To get
to James Town appeared to me to be an impossibility, unless by water, and I was not likely
to meet with any other vessel here but a pirate. Should I then go aboard of a pirate? It appeared
to me to be my only resource, and that I should be happy if I could find one.

By this time I had arrived at the mouth of the river, and, looking out to seaward, I saw a
schooner at anchor. She was about three miles off. That she was a pirate vessel, I presumed.
Should I go on board of her or not? and if so, how was I to get on board? All her boats were
up: and I surmised that she had just left the river with the intention of sailing as soon as
there was any wind, for now it was calm. The river ran out swiftly, and I thought I should
be able to swim the distance with the assistance I should obtain from the current, which swept
down right for her, and she was riding to its strength.

I was demurring. I had been perhaps two hours on the beach, waiting to see if she might send
a boat on shore, when, as I stood at the river-side, still hesitating, I happened to turn round
and perceived three Indians coming down upon me as fast as they could. I hesitated no longer,
but plunged into the stream, and was swept out two hundred yards before they arrived at the
beach. I made for the schooner; and the current ran out so fast, that in half an hour I was
close to her. I swam for her cable, which I clung to, and then shouted loudly. This induced
some of the crew to look over the bows, and they handed me a bowling knot, into which I fixed
myself, and was hauled on board.

I was dragged aft to give an account of myself, and I stated in few words that I had been pursued
by the Indians, and swam off to save my life.

"Hav'n't we met before?" said a rough voice.

I looked, and saw the Jolly Rover, whom I had fallen in with on shore. I said, "Yes; I was
escaping from the Indians when I met you, and you showed me the direction of the plantations."

"All's right," said he. "It's a true bill; and were those Indians after you that we saw on
the beach just now?"

"Yes," I replied; and then I stated how it was that they had attacked our cabin, and how we
had escaped.

"That was well done, and so you swam off three miles. Fire and water won't hurt you; that's
clear. You're just the man for us. What thing-um-bob is this that you have hung round your
neck?" said he, taking up the leathern bag with the diamond in it.

"That," replied I--a sudden thought having struck me--"is my caul; I was born with a caul,
and I have always worn it, as it saves a man from drowning."

"No wonder that you swam three miles, then," replied the man.

You must know, Madam, that some people are born with a membrane over the face, which is termed
a caul, and there has been a vulgar error that such people can never be drowned, especially
if they wear this caul about their person in after-life. Sailors are superstitious in many
things, but particularly in this, and my caul was therefore as much respected by them as it
hung round my neck, as it was by the Indians when they thought it was what they call "magic"
or "medicine."

"Well," said the Jolly Rover, "as you had so much fire, so much water, and so much running,
I think you won't be sorry to have a biscuit and glass of grog, and then turn in; to-morrow
we will talk to you."

I went down below, very glad to accept the offer, and as I was regaling myself, who should
come up to me but two of the Portuguese who had been wrecked in the xebeque, and put on shore
with me in the little boat by the captain of the Transcendant. I was very glad to see them.
They told me that, after great hardship and suffering, they had arrived famished at the banks
of this river, and had been taken on board by the pirates, and had remained with them ever
since; that they were very anxious to get away, but never had an opportunity. I begged them
not to say who I was, but merely that I was once a shipmate of theirs. They promised, and being
very tired, I then lay down and fell asleep. I was so worn out, that I did not wake till the
next morning, when I found that we were under all sail running down to the southward. I saw
the Jolly Rover, as I had termed him, on deck (his real or assumed name, I don't know which,
I found out to be Toplift), sitting on a gun abaft. He called me to him. I said,

"Are you the captain?"

"Yes," he replied, "for want of a better. I told you months ago what we were, so it's no use
repeating it. Do you intend to join us?"

"Then," replied I, "I will be very candid with you. I have been driven as it were on board
of your vessel, but certainly without knowing exactly what she was. Now, captain, I have to
ask you one question:--Would you, if you could go on shore in England, with plenty of money
at your command, and plenty of good friends,--would you be here?"

"No; certainly not," replied he.

"Well; I am in that position. If once in England, I have money enough to live upon, and plenty
of friends; I therefore naturally want to get back to England, and not to run the risk of my
neck on board of this vessel."

"That's very true," replied he, "but there are other considerations; my men won't have a man
on board who will not swear fidelity, and if you will not, I cannot protect you,--they will
throw you overboard. We don't carry passengers." 

They were terrified, placed themselves on their hind legs, hesitated, and went through. Almost
the farmer and his wife had been dropped. They uttered cry from one, leaning forward in order rein
to touch on that, and were the next moment disappeared in the.

The Trollin grinned with rage.

Now she had Beloved hard to face get that.

But suddenly, she was again merrily, for there was indeed the child
before her on just the earth.

It was the peasant woman dropped her arm from when the horse bolted.

The child was lying on a pile of dry leaves, and was completely unharmed.

It screamed in terror on the case, but when the Trollin about it
bent, it seemed so amused by the astonishing sight that it stopped
and smiled and stretched out the hand in order to pull on their black
beard.

But the Trollin was quite taken aback and looked at the human child. She saw the little hands
with the rose-red nails, clear blue eyes and a small mouth. She
felt the soft hair, stroked her cheeks and knew themselves in amazement
to not grasp that a baby pink and soft and fine be could.

Suddenly bark Butte tore the Trollin her from the back, took own Young out of her and placed
it beside the human child.

And when she saw what the difference between the two was, she could not
make it, according aufzuheulen rage before.

In the meantime, had the farmer and his wife, their horses tamed,
and she came back now to find her child. the Trollin they come as
heard her were almost in tears because she had not long Beloved fed
seen the to.

She remained seated until the riders in sight, almost, as she took a quick
decision.

She left her young side of the road are on, but human child put the
them in their bark Butte, and ran off into the forest.

* * * * * Hardly had the Trollin in the forest disappeared, as the farmer and his wife came to the
fore. There were splendid rich peasants, respected and with a beautiful farm at the foot of the hill
forest.

They had been married many years, but they had only this one child.

One can imagine then, how dear to them was to find it again.

The
woman was the man for a few horse lengths ahead, and first saw the child that lay on the roadside.
It cried out with all his forces to Trollin recall which, and the woman would have been howls
pinned to the on what a child that was for.

But she was afraid to endure such that the fall could have killed the little one, that, when
the cry just thought: Thank God that he lives is on. "There is the child, she called a man to this
one and slid out of the saddle and ran the troll boy on.

When the farmer body came to, she was sitting along the roadside
and turned the child back and forth and looked like someone who can
not trust his senses.

"My child had no teeth but like the spikes," she said, her voice expressed fear of ever larger
and larger, "my child was still no hair like quills, my child was
still no claw on the little finger.

"The farmer nothing could andres believe, than that his wife had gone
mad, and now jumped from horse." Look at the child and say you understand
if can how it changed so much has, "said the woman, and handed it
to him.

He took it from her hands, but he had scarcely look at it thrown one
after he spat three times and it was hurled from." This is a troll cub
"he cried. "That's not our child." The woman was still sitting by the
roadside.

She was not quick of thought and could
not guess what would have to go to. "But what are you doing with
the child," she asked.

"Yes, can not you see that the changeling is one?" Said the man, "The trolls have the opportunity
to use than our horse bolted.

They have stolen our child and one of their own for it put down."
- "But where is it now my child, "asked the woman. - "This is just
for the trolls," replied the man Now at last the woman understood
the whole trouble.

She turned pale, and the man believed that they would give up their spirit of the place on.
"Our child is not so far away be, "said the man and tried to appease them, although he himself
had much hope not." We want to go into the woods and seek it. "With that he tied the horses
to a tree and went into the thicket. The woman was also to follow him, when she noticed that the troll
boy to the ground was on and every moment trampled to death could
become horses, the of, the present uneasy seemed his over and once
after another wild back ausschlugen after.

She shuddered at the thought having to touch the changeling, but she pushed him but so that the
horses could not crush him. "This is the bell that our child had
in his hand, as you let it fall," said the farmer from the forest.

"Now I know that I am on the right track."

The woman ran after him, and they went into the woods and searched
long and diligently.

But they found neither child nor Troll, and the dusk came on as she had to her horses back. The
woman was crying and wringing her hands.

The man went with compressed lips and said not a word to comfort her.
"He was of good old master, who would be extinguished if a son would
not get.

He was accompanied now and the woman was angry because she had the child drop to the ground.
but it would primarily have to hold another. But when he saw how sorry
she was, he did not have the heart to blame them. The peasant woman
who had helped in the saddle when her changeling could think of.

"What should we do with the troll boy," she cried. - "Yes, where's become of it?" The man said
- "It is there under the bush." - "Since it is quite good," the man
said, smiling bitterly. - "We must but take it however.

We can not leave here in the wilderness. "-" Yes we can very well, "said the farmer, and put his foot
in the stirrup. The woman found that the man really quite right would have. They needed to not
accept the troll child. Thus, the horse she was making a few steps.

But she was warm and soft in disposition, and suddenly it seemed to her impossible, ride on. "No,
it's just a child," she said.

I "can not leave here, the wolves to devour. You must give me the rich boys." - "It do not I," said
the man, "He is very well where he is." - "If you do not bring it
to me now, I must now come back tonight and get him, "the woman said.
- "It seems to me there is not enough that the trolls have stolen
my boy for me," he said, "they also have my wife's head twisted."

But in doing so he raised it to the child and gave it to the woman, for he had a great love
to her, and was accustomed to her desire to be in everything. The
next day was a disaster in the parish known, and all who were old
and wise, hastened into the tent of farmers to get good to give advice.

"Who has a changeling in the house, he must every day with a stout stick beats give," said one
of the ancients.

"Why should we so bad for him to deal with," asked the woman. "Of course he is ugly, but he has done
nothing but evil." - "Yes, it beats the boy when, until the blood
flows, then finally comes Trollin herangesaust which raises one's own
child and takes her with one. I know many who have done so in order
to regain her child. "-"

But these children are then left not long in life, "said one of the old women, and the farmer thought
to himself that this means they could not apply.

That it would have been impossible.

Towards evening, when the woman with the changeling alone in the
room was with, she began at once so violently after her own child
longing that she did not know where even one out.

"Maybe I should try but that what they have advised me," she thought, but she could not yet decide.
At the same moment came the man with a stick in his hand in the room and asked about the changeling.
The woman saw that the Council of the wise men followed the women
and children beat the troll wanted to get back his own.

"It is good that he does," she thought. "I'm too stupid. I could
never beat an innocent child.

"But no sooner had the man put the troll child a blow, when the woman herbeistürzte and grabbed him
by the arm." No, not beating, beating not, "she said. - You probably
want your own child does not have again? "Said the man and tried to get
away. - "Of course I want it back, but do not like this," said the woman.
The man raised his arm to a new shock, but before he fell, the woman
had the child thrown in, so that the blow to their hit back. "God
save me," said the man, "now I see you like you do in such a way
that our child all his life trolls must remain at the."

He stopped and waited, but the woman was lying in front of him and protect the child. As the man
threw away the stick and walked angrily out of the room. He was surprised later that he was
not his purpose in spite of his wife had done, but it was as if defeated him something he could
not violate it. A few days passed in sorrow and grief. What the woman the most tormented and
doubled her grief, was that she had to take care of this child for Troll.
For his sake she had to suffer so bitter that she almost took the power,
to mourn her own child.

"I do not clean, what should I give to eat of the changeling," she said to her husband a "morning
He will cost nothing, which I set before him." - "This is not surprising," said the man "You'll
already have heard but that no other trolls eat as frogs and mice."
- "But you can not but demand that I go to the marsh frog and get
him there, the food," said the woman. - "No, I demand nothing of the
sort," replied the farmer.

"I think it would be best if he starve."

Would whole week went by, the, without the farmer's wife was able to move the troll boy, something to
to take. It just screamed, as there was in his cradle, and became so miserable and poor, that hardly
anything left of him remained. All around him turned farmer's wife everything good food on
the, she could only prepare, but changeling spat of and spit only
when they wanted to persuade him a little treat to taste the.

One evening, when the troll child looked as should starve it, came the cat with a mouse between his
teeth running in the room. Since tore the woman the cat the mouse out of the throat, threw her
child out to the and hastily left the room to see not to have, like the troll boy ate. But when
the farmer noticed that the women started really, frogs and spiders
for to collect the changeling, because he started such a revulsion
of feeling against her that he could hardly conceal.

He could not bring himself to say a kind word to her, and would not have been strange power that
they had on him, he would leave immediately.

Even the servants began the peasant disobedience and irreverence to show, without the farmer
is so troubled. The woman soon realized: if she continues to carry on, in protection to take
changeling it, they would share it with her husband, the servants
and the neighbors have a very hard, but she was like that: if someone
gave the all the other hated, she had to exert their utmost strength
in order to protect such a poor wretch.

And the more you order the changeling's sake suffered and tortured, the
more faithfully they saw to it that his evil befall nothing. A few
years later in a morning farmer's wife sat alone in the room and
sewed patch to patch on a small children's dress.

" Oh yes, "she thought as she worked," which has no good days, the strange
child care must be a for. "She sewed and sewed, but the holes were so
big and so numerous that the tears in his eyes came when she looked at
her.

"But as far as I know," she thought, "if I my own son patched frock, because I wanted holes
do not count." "I'm just too hard with the changeling," thought the farmer's wife, as she performed
a new Hole discovered.

"The best thing would have if I took him deep in the forest so deep that he could not longer
homing, and leaving him there." Although I do not need so much trouble to give to him go to
be, "she went on after a little while." I needed him for a moment to
leave without supervision, he would have drowned in the fountain
or on the hearth burned or bitten by dogs or horses or met the servants
of the slain are from.

Yes, it would be easy to get rid of him, because he is left out and bad, and there is no one who
did not hate him. I think if I would not have him constantly around me, would like the opportunity
to use someone and kill him . She went and looked at the child, which lay in a corner of the room
and slept. It was very grown and saw a lot of uglier than when they
had seen it for the first time. It had big, thick lips, eyebrows
were like two stiff brush, and the skin was very brown.

"Mend your clothes and on you would wake up, perhaps as yet, "she
thought.

"If worse because of you I would not worry. It's almost as if I had lost my
mind that I am suffering so much about you, where you are nothing
else than a disgusting troll.

My husband hates me, I despise the servants, the maids mock me, the cat hisses at me, dog growls
when he met me, and where all you're just guilty. "But that I hate animals and humans, is not
the worst, "she continued thoughtfully." The worst is that I am every time I look at you, the more
long after my own son.

O, my dear, my dearest darling, where are you now? Are you asleep now in the Trollin on moss
and twigs? "Then went to the door, and the woman went back to the table and sat down with her
sewing. It was her husband who entered. He had a smiling face and spoke with a friendly voice
for a long time.

"Today is the neighboring village fair," he said. "How would it be if
we were going?" Oh, I wanted so very happy, "said the woman and was
very happy."

Well, then get ready quickly, "the man said," We have to walk to walk, because the horses are at work.
But we get along even if we are way over the hill take.

"A little while later, woman was standing in holiday clothes on the threshold. That was the
most joyful, but this is already years saw was for her , and they
troll child had completely forgotten.

"But," she thought suddenly, "maybe want my husband gave me tempted away just so that one of
the soldiers killed can troll child, while I can not stand my own." She immediately went into the room
and came with the big boys troll the arm back on. "Can not let the changeling at home," asked
the man, but he was laughing and was very gentle. - "No, I do not trust him to go away," she said.
"Yes, that's your thing," said the farmer, "but it is hard for thee
to such 'an urchin hinaufzuschleppen the hill."

She then began her walk, but it went straight up, you had to climb
a high ridge before to the neighboring villages came.

The woman became so tired that she put one foot before the other was more difficult. One after
another they tried to persuade the big boys, even to go, but he would
not.

The man was the all the time happy and as friendly as he had never yet, since she had lost her
child. "Now you have me, but give the changeling," he said, "I'll take him a little while." -
"Oh, no I can already, "the woman said," I do not want you to have
complaints of this troll stuff.

"-" Why do you alone so that toil shall you, "he said and took the changeling.
When the farmer took the child, the road was straight on allersteilsten.

He led quite narrow and slippery on the edge of a precipice over and there
was hardly room to put on the foot.

The woman
was walking behind him, and she suddenly got very scared that something might
happen to the man as he went there and the child wore.

"Go careful here," she cried. She said that when he quickly and carelessly went so he would fall.
Then he glided really well and had almost the Troll boy abyss drop down in. "No, if the child
fell was now, then we would be there for all time have been rid, 'she thought. But at that moment
it was clear before her eyes, that was the intention of the man,
the child here and do hinunterzuwerfen then, as if a disaster happened.
- Oh, oh, she thought, is it so?

He has everything set up to remove the child, though I notice that he intended doing with it. Yes, it
would be best if I could will him his?

Again, the man slipped a loose stone on, a child again would he almost fell out of his arm.
"Give me the child, you fall, then," said the woman . - "No," said the man, I'll have to watch.
"-" You must give it to me, "cried the woman," you're already slipped twice. "At that moment
the man slipped from the third.

He stretched out his arms to a tree branch in order to stick with it, and dropped the child. The woman
came behind dense, and though she still had meant just that it would be nice changeling get
rid of them rushed in front now, grabbed a corner of the coat Chen and pulled the child out
back on the track. Since man turned of their . His face was ugly and
transformed. "When thou didst fall child in our woods, you were not
so quick," he said angrily.

The woman did not answer. She sat
on the ground and wept, that the friendliness of the man had been
played only.

"Why are you crying?" He said harshly. "It would probably not such a disaster have been if I had
to drop bellow. Come on now, it's getting late." - I think I did not feel like going to the
market, "she said. - "Well, I also like the past," he said.

"I would rather go home," said the woman. "Yes, why should we go
when it does not make us happy," said the man was united with her.

On the way home accompanied the man and wondered how long he could
hold his wife is still with.

He now made use of its power and its constraints, will, if so then
could not all be good between them again, he said, but as it was now,
he wanted to be free of her most loved.

He came close to violence against them and apply themselves to tear
the child, but just because he met the gaze of the woman, the sad
and melancholy rested on him so that he could not do it, hard to proceed
against them.

To her sorrow's sake he did himself violence to, as he had done so far, and everything remained
as it had been.

Once passed a few years, and there was a summer night, where the
farm a fire broke out.

When the people woke up, had room and board smoke, and the whole attic
was filled with a sea of fire.

It was about not thinking at all, delete, or to save, you could only
rush out in order not to burn.

The farmer went out into the courtyard and stood there and looked
at the burning house. "One thing I would like to know who did this to
me?" - "Who?" Well, who should probably be different than the changeling?
"Said a servant.

"It had always been his long game, the stake to make kindling and light it." - "Yesterday, he
has a great bunch of dry twigs to the attic worn one," said the maid. "He just wanted to light
it when I came and noticed him. "-" Certainly he has put in fire
yesterday evening, "said the man."

You
can be sure all that he has caused the accident. "If he wanted to burn
at least alone," said the farmer , "then I would not complain that my
old house on fire is absorbed by him."

What he just said, the woman came out of the house and dragged the
child behind him.

Then rushed up the farm, their snatched the child , lifted it high into
the air and threw it back into the house again.

The fire struck just the roof and the windows out to, and the heat was terrible. For a moment
saw the man to the woman, pale with terror, then turned around and
she hurried back into the house, the young child.

"It gives me nothing, if you burn with me," she said after the farmer. However, she came out again
and had the child in her arms. Their hands were badly burned, and the
hair was almost singed. No one said a word to her when she came out.
She went to the fountain, put out a few sparks, the hem of her skirt
shone on, and then sat on the floor.

The Troll child lay on her lap and fell asleep soon, but she sat up as erect, staring with sad
eyes in front of . A lot of people rushed to delete, but no one spoke
to her.

It looked as if they all thought that she is ugly and sinister in
itself would have something to fear and loathing excited.

At dawn, when the fire was extinguished , the farmer came to them on. "I think it is not long, I can
not trolls live with, although I do not like you leave. I'm going
my way and come again.

"When
the woman words heard this and saw the man to turn away just to go
his way, as twitching went one by her when she wanted to run after
him, but the troll child lay heavy on her lap.

She seemed not to have enough power to shake it, but remained seated.


"I gave my opinion, my men, and if you will hear why I said so--"

"No, no, out boats," cried they all, and simultaneously ran to lower down the boats, for it
was now calm, that they might tow the schooner alongside of the Transcendant.

"You might as well talk to the wind as talk to them when there is plunder to be obtained,"
said Toplift to me in a low tone.

"Come down with me," said I, "and I will tell you what I have heard."

"Ain't they going to plunder the brig?" said Master Peleg, when we came down; "I know where
father's dollars are," and up he ran on deck.

I made a short remark upon the depravity of the boy, and then informed Captain Toplift of what
he had told me.

"If you had told them, they would not have paid attention to you. The boat's crew who came
with the captain have told them that there is money on board, and all authority is now at an end."

"Well," replied I, "I believe that the boy has told the truth."

"And what do you mean to do?"

"Remain below quietly, if I am allowed," replied I.

"But I cannot," said he; "they would throw me overboard."

"Make as bad a fight of it as you can," replied I.

"That I will," said Captain Toplift, "and with so superior a force opposed, we cannot stand
long. But I must tell you where you must be."

"Where?" replied I.

"At the entrance of the magazine, for as sure as we stand here they will blow up the vessel
rather than be taken. Not all of them, but two or three I know are determined so to do, and
resolute enough to do it. My pistols are there. You have only to open this door, and you are
in the magazine passage. See," said he, opening the door, "there is the scuttle where they
hand the powder up."

"I will be on the watch, depend upon it; and, Captain Toplift, if the schooner is taken, and
I am alive, you may have no fear for yourself."

"Now let us go on deck again."

"I will follow you," replied I.

"I am alone at last, thank Heaven!" said I to myself. "What a position am I in, and how much
will be in suspense before twenty-four hours are over. My own brother here, not ten miles perhaps
from me, commanding the vessel which will attack this on which I am on board. That they will
take us I have no doubt; but what risk do I run--of death by shot, or by their blowing up the
vessel in spite of me, or of no quarter being given. Well, I wish it were decided. At all events,
I am long supposed dead, and I shall not be recognized among the heaps of bodies."

I then went to the locker and took out my duck frock and trowsers, determining that I would,
if I were killed, be killed in those clothes, and be thrown overboard as a common seaman. I
then went on deck, for I had heard the grating of the sides of the two vessels and knew that
they were in contact.

All was uproar and confusion on board of the Transcendant, but there was nobody on board the
schooner except Toplift and myself. I cannot say that I never saw such a scene, for I had seen
quite as bad on board of a privateer. The common seamen, as well as the soldiers, when let
loose to plunder, are like maniacs. In half an hour they had broken open every thing, cut the
crew to pieces, found out the hoard of dollars, which was shown them by young Peleg, who tried
for his share, but for so doing received a chop with a cutlass, which cut off his right ear,
and wounded him severely on the shoulder; but his right arm was not disabled, and while the
man that cut him down was bending over a heap of dollars, which took both hands to lift them,
the boy ran his knife deep into the man's side, who fell mortally wounded. The rush for the
dollars thus at the mercy of the rest was so great, that Peleg was not minded, and he crept
away and came on board the schooner. We saw that he was bleeding profusely, but we asked no
questions, and he went down the ladder forward.

"What has that young villain been after?" said Toplift.

"I presume he has been quarrelling for plunder, and considered that he had a greater right
to his father's money than anybody else."

Among other plunder the people had not forgotten to look for liquor, and an hour had not passed
before three-fourths of the men were more or less intoxicated. They had found plenty of good
clothes, and were strutting about with gold-laced waistcoats and embroidered coats over their
dirty frocks. The uproar increased every minute, when Toplift, who had been looking out with
the glass, exclaimed, "There she is, by all that's sacred!"

I caught the glass out of his hand, and found it was the king's ship. She was a large flush
vessel, apparently of eighteen or twenty guns, just opening from the point, and not seven miles
from us. We were still becalmed, and she was bringing the wind down with her, so that to escape
appeared impossible.

"Now, what shall we do?" said Captain Toplift; "shall we allow her to come down upon us and
say nothing to the men, or shall we point out the danger, and persuade them to come on board
and prepare?"

"You must do as you please," replied I, "I am indifferent which. It will be dark in another
hour, and she will not be down by that time. I would rather avoid fighting, and get away from
the schooner quietly if I could, but that I fear is impossible now."

"Well, I must go on board of the brig and let them know, for if they find it out themselves,
they will throw us overboard."

Captain Toplift then went on board of the brig, and calling to the men who were still sober,
told them that there was a king's ship coming down upon them not seven miles off. This had
the effect of putting an end to the confusion and noise of a great portion of the men, who
hastened on board of the schooner, but others, who were intoxicated, were with difficulty persuaded
to return.

At last they were all got on board, and the schooner, clear from the brig, was made ready for
action; but Toplift was obliged to make some alteration in the stationing of the men, as those
who were to hand up the powder were all of them tipsy. By the time that the schooner was ready,
and the breeze had come down to her, the corvette was not more than three miles from us; but
it was quite dark, for there is no twilight in those parts. We consulted what course we should
take to avoid her, if possible, and agreed that we would stand in shore and pass her if we
possibly could. We knew that, if seen, we were then certain to be obliged to fight; but if
not seen, we might escape.

We then shifted the helm and bore up across her bows, but we had not steered in this direction
more than a quarter of an hour, when the Transcendant was perceived to be on fire, having been
fired by the drunken men before they left her, and soon afterwards she burst out into flames
that threw a strong light to a great distance, discovering the corvette to us at two miles'
distance, and of course exposing us to the corvette, who immediately altered her course for
us. We had therefore only to fight, and the crew, being most of them in liquor, declared that
they would fight till the schooner sunk under them. In a quarter of an hour, the corvette being
close to us, and standing stem on, we opened our fire, raking her masts and yards, and then
I went down below. I had changed my clothes for the duck trowsers and shirt which I had swum
on board in, and I now remained quietly in the cabin. A few minutes afterwards the corvette
opened her fire, and the shot did great execution. The cries of the wounded and the shouts
of the tipsy men were mingled together, but the crew of the schooner tired with great rapidity,
and sustained the unequal conflict most gallantly.

After a time some men darted down into the cabin. I was then at the door which led to the magazine
passage, and busied myself handing up the powder, as it secured me from observation, and it
was supposed that I was one of the crew sent down for that duty.

The men roared out, "Where is the captain? We want him to fight the ship. Toplift is an old
fool, and don't know what he is about."

I made no reply, but with my back towards them continued to hand up the powder, and, having
changed my dress, they did not recognize me, so they rushed upon deck again.

The corvette was now alongside of the schooner, pouring in her broadsides with fatal execution,
the shot passing in every direction through her, so that there was as much danger below as
on deck, and it was evident that the schooner could not oppose them much longer. Still they
continued to fire with great resolution, being now sobered into more steadiness than at first.
But by this time more than half the men were killed and wounded, and our guns were encumbered
with the wreck and bodies. I heard them, at the very time that a crashing broadside was poured
in by the corvette, cry out, "Avast firing for a moment and clear the decks."

They did so, and having thrown the bodies overboard and cut away the spars and rigging which
had fallen, so as to enable them to work their guns, during which time three broadsides were
poured in, they remanned their guns, and fought with as much spirit as before. I could not
help admiring the courage of the scoundrels, for nothing could exceed it; but resistance was
useless, further than they preferred dying at their guns to being hanged on the gibbet.

But the shouts of the pirates and the reports of the guns gradually decreased. The men were
swept away by the enemy's fire, and the guns were one by one disabled. The schooner's sides
were torn out, and the water poured in below so fast that it was rising to the magazine. I
heard a cry of boarders, and the striking of the two vessels together, and then there was a
rush down below, when a man came aft to the magazine passage. It was the fellow whom I had
struck down on the quarter-deck and had put into irons.

"Come along," said he, to the others; "we'll send the corvette and ourselves all to the devil
together. Out of the way there."

"Stand back," said I.

"Stand back," replied he, pointing his pistol down to the magazine.

I threw up his arm, and the pistol went off, striking the beams above.

"Blast you," cried he, "whoever you are; but I've another," and he attempted to draw it out
of his belt, but before he could effect it I blew out his brains with the pistol which I had
ready cocked in my hand.

His companions started back, and I pointed my second pistol at them, saying, "The man who comes
forward this way dies."

As I said this the crew of the corvette, who had cleared the decks, charged down below, and
the pirates ran away and secreted themselves. Perceiving them coming forward, I said to them,
"Put a guard over the magazine; they have attempted to blow up the vessel already."

"Who are you?" said an officer.

"A prisoner," replied I.

"Well, then, lead him on deck, and stay here, two of you; shut down the magazine scuttle and
keep guard."

"Thank Heaven," thought I, "that this affair is over," as a seaman led me by the collar on
deck, and handed me to others, who took me on board of the corvette.

We were all put down below that remained out of the schooner's crew, about eighteen or nineteen,
not more, and I was glad to find Captain Toplift, although badly wounded with a splinter, was
among the number. We remained there huddled together with a guard of ten men over us for more
than an hour, when we heard, from the conversation on deck, that the schooner had sunk. After
that the guns of the corvette were secured, and the men had an allowance of liquor served out
to them, the watch was called, and all was quiet during the remainder of that night. For some
time I was in a state of excitement from the events of the last twenty-four hours crowding
so rapidly, but by degrees I became calm. I asked one of the guard who was the captain of the
corvette.

"What's that to you, you gallows-bird?" replied he.

"A civil question might receive a civil reply," answered I.

"So it might with any one else; but if you don't want the hilt of my cutlass down your throat,
you will hold your tongue."

But I did not require to repeat the question, as I heard one of the officers on deck say, "It's
Captain Musgrave's orders."

This satisfied me, and I lay down with the rest of the prisoners, waiting for daybreak, when
I trusted my troubles would soon be over. They were all sound asleep. Strange that men who
knew that they would be hanged In a few days, if not the next morning, should sleep so sound--but
so it was--while I, who had every reason to believe that my sufferings were over, could not
sleep one wink. I was, however, fully satisfied with my own castle-buildings during the night,
and more satisfied when it was again broad daylight. After the men had had their breakfast,
an order came down for all the prisoners to be brought on deck. We were led up under guard,
and made to stand all in a row. I looked round for my brother, but he was not on deck. It was
the first lieutenant who was there, with several other officers, and the clerk, with pen and
ink, to take down the names of the prisoners.

"Who was the captain of this vessel?" said the first lieutenant.

"I was, Sir," replied Toplift; "but much against my will."

"Oh, of course; every man was on board of her against his will. What is your name? Put him
down, Mr. Pearson. Any other officers alive?"

"No, Sir," replied Toplift.

The name of every man was then asked and put down, and it so happened that I was the last;
for, anxious to see my brother, I had walked up the foremost, and they had commenced their
interrogation at the other end of the line.

"What is your name?"

"I do not belong to the schooner," replied I.

"Of course not; you dropped on board her from the clouds."

"No, Sir, I did not; I swam on board of her to save my life."

"Then you went out of the frying-pan into the fire, I reckon, my good fellow, for your life
is forfeited now."

"I rather think not, Sir," replied I. "On the contrary, I feel it is quite safe."

"Give us none of your jaw, my good fellow, but give us your name."

"Certainly, Sir, if you require it. My name is Alexander Musgrave, Sir," replied I; "I am the
elder brother of your captain, Philip Musgrave, and I will thank you to go into his cabin and
inform him that I am here."

The first lieutenant and officers started back in astonishment, and so did Captain Toplift
and the pirates. The first lieutenant hardly knew whether to consider it as a pretence on my
part or not, and was undecided how to act, when Captain Toplift said, "I do not know whether
the gentleman is as he says, but this is certain, and all the men can prove it as well as myself,
that he did swim on board, as he said, to escape from the Indians, and that he has never joined
the crew. They offered to make him captain in my stead, and he positively refused it."

"Yes," said all the pirates; "that's true enough."

"Well, Sir," replied the first lieutenant, "I will certainly carry your message."

"To make all certain," replied I, "I will write my name on a slip of paper for you to take
in to the captain. He knows my signature."

I did so, and the first lieutenant took the paper, and went into the cabin. In a minute he
returned, and requested me to follow him. I did so, and in another minute I was in the arms
of my brother. For some time we neither of us could speak. At last Philip said, "That you are
alive and well, let me thank Heaven. I have considered you as dead, and so have others; and
to find you on board of a pirate--on board of a vessel which I have been riddling with shot,
any one of which might have caused your death. Thank God I was ignorant that you were on board,
or I never could have done my duty. I will not ask how you came on board of this vessel, for
that must be the end of your narrative, which I must have from the time that you first left
Rio, and afterwards in detail the whole from the time that you left the Coast."

"Then they received my letters from Rio?"

"Yes, after imagining you were dead, they were rejoiced by those letters; but I will not anticipate
my story, nor will I now ask for yours; it is sufficient at present that you are alive, my
dear Alexander, and once more in my arms."

"Let me ask one question," replied I.

"I know what it will be. She was in good health, but suffering much in mind from having no
account of you. Her father and others have reasoned with her, and painted the impossibility
of your being in existence, as the xebeque you sailed in had never been heard of. She still
adheres in the opinion that you are alive, and will not abandon the hope of seeing you again;
but hope deferred has paled her cheek even more pale than it usually is, and she evidently
suffers much, for her life is wrapped in yours. Now having told you this, you must come into
my state-room, and allow me to enable you to appear as my brother ought to do. I do not think
that there is any difference in our size now, although there was when we last parted."

"Many thanks, Philip, but before I adonize my outward man I should wish to satisfy my inward
cravings; and, to tell you the truth, I'm so hungry from not having broken my fast for nearly
twenty-four hours, that if you could order something to eat while you are looking out the clothes,
I should feel in no small degree grateful."

Philip rang the bell and ordered the steward in bring something to eat and drink, and after
eating I occupied a quarter of an hour more in getting rid of the pirate smoke and dirt, and
putting on one of his uniforms, for he had no other clothes on board, when I came out, looking
not at all like a pirate.

"Now, then," said Philip, "before we have our tête-à-tête, come out with me, and let me introduce
you to the officers as my brother."

I went out with him, and was formally introduced. The first lieutenant apologized for his rough
speech, but I told him that there was no occasion for any apology, as I had no doubt that I
looked very much like a pirate at the time.

"More than you do now. Sir, at all events," replied he.

"By the bye, brother," said I, "there is one man among the prisoners who, although compelled
to act as captain by the men, is no pirate. His conduct I will explain to you. May I request
him to be kindly treated? His name is Toplift--and also two Portuguese, my former companions."

"Certainly," replied Philip, "your word is sufficient. Let those persons be released and taken
care of," said he to the first lieutenant. "We will wait for the particulars by-and-by."

I remained on deck about ten minutes, and then returned to the cabin with my brother.

"What is this which you have left on my dressing-table?" said Philip, surveying the leather
bag which contained the diamond.

"That, Philip," said I, "is a portion of my narrative, and eventually may prove a very important
one. I don't think that I can afford to make you a present of it, but I shall see."

"It does not look very valuable," replied he.

"At all events, do me the favour to lock it up carefully," replied I.

"Well, if you are in earnest I will," he said, and having put it in a drawer and locked it
up, he said, "Now, Alexander, let me have your history."

I commenced, and told him all that the reader is now acquainted with. Dinner broke off my narrative,
and as soon as it was over I resumed it. When I had finished, he expressed his astonishment,
and asked many questions. Among others he said, "And that little wretch Peleg, the captain
of the Transcendant's son, is he on board?"

"I have not seen him," replied I, "and therefore presume that he was not able to move, and
went down in the schooner." Which was the case.

"You have indeed told me a strange tale," said Philip, "and you have had some extraordinary
escapes. You must have a charmed life, and you appear to have been preserved to prove that
Amy's persuasion of your being still alive was just and well-founded; and now it is my turn
to talk, and yours to listen. When I left you as lieutenant of Captain Levee's schooner, we
very shortly afterwards had an action with a Spanish vessel of very superior force, for she
mounted thirty guns. Having no chance with her, from her superior weight of metal, we threw
ourselves on her bow and boarded. The Spaniards did not relish this kind of close fighting,
and gave us immediate possession of their deck. Captain Levee, when he brought in his prize,
was appointed to a frigate of thirty-six guns, and I followed him as his first lieutenant.
We had another combat with a vessel of equal force, in which we were the victors, and I was
sent in the prize. Captain Levee wrote very kindly in my behalf, and I was made a captain,
and given the command of a small brig. But let me first finish with Captain Levee. He captured
a galleon, which gave him a large fortune, and he then gave up the command of his ship, and
went on shore, telling me in a letter that he had hitherto squandered away all his money, but
now that he had got so much, he intended to keep it. He has done so, for he has purchased a
large landed property, is married, and I believe, is very happy."

"He deserves it," replied I; "and long may he be so." 

She could not move on, and what was going on around them, which they saw as little as if she were
dead. Then she heard her husband's voice calling for her, and her heart began to pound again, and awoke
in her life. She hit on the eyes and looked at as a drowsy. It was broad daylight, the sun was shining and the
birds sang, and it seemed impossible that she beautiful morning still wearing her misfortune should
have one to so. But immediately afterward she saw the charred beams, which lay still, once the
cabin had stood where, and a lot of people with blackened hands and sooty face, and as it came to
her knowledge that she awoke to a severe accident than ever before; but she felt as if it would
be to end now. She looked around for the changeling. He was no longer on her lap and it was nowhere
near to see it. If everything else was like, they would have jumped up and searched for him,
but now she felt no uneasiness about him. She heard her husband continues to call remotely.
He came from the forest, down to the court, and all the strange people, who had helped clear the ran
towards him and surrounded him, so that she could not see him. They only heard how he cried incessantly:
"Mother, mother! do come and see, come and see, "And the voice of a customer brought great
joy, but she was still sitting motionless. She dared not entgegenzugehen. Finally came the
whole people flock to it on, and the man separated from the others and came up and laid a
beautiful child in her arms. "Here is our son, he is returned to us," said the man, "And
you - - and no one else did - saved him. "The musician is a musician, a late Saturday night, his
fiddle under his arm associated with.

He is very cheerful and happy, because he comes from a festival, where he was playing old and
young, has enticed to dance with his.

As he goes now, he just thinks about how no one could keep silent
as long as his bow in progress was.

Such a wild dance had swirled through the room that he had been a few times, when dancing with
chairs and tables. - "I think surely that they never play such a man like me have had this in
place," he said yourself to - "But I have had it pretty hard until
I was such a good guy one," he continues.

"That was no fun when I was a child and the parents ordered me, sheep and cows , guard, and
I forgot everything and just sat there and pulled on my violin. Yes, and not even a real fiddle
they would give me at home.

I had nothing else to play as an old wooden box, which I had stretched strings. "On days when I could
be in the woods alone, went to me quite well, but it was no fun to
come home at night, when the flock had lost me. received as self countless
times by the father and mother to hear that I ne'er was, and that
never I will be out.

"would in that part of the forest, the minstrel wanders forges, a small mountain stream on his
way. There is the rocky soil and hilly, and the power it makes great complaints to come forward.
It winds back and forth, throws himself on small cases and does not seem to be getting anywhere.
The road, however, the musician moves the attempts to go straight as possible. He shall, as always
the winding mountain stream with and jumps every time on a small
little bridge across.

The musician must therefore exceed the power once other professionals, and that gives him joy.
It is to him as if he had now found in the forest society. He goes through the clear summer
night. The sun is not up yet, but it has not much to say that she keeps a distance, for there
is but in any case, full of light.

But right as the day it is not. Everything has a different color. The sky is all white, the trees and
the tall herb in the grass are shiny gray. But everything is just as clearly as by day, and the musician
on one of the many bridges stand as is and the current looks down in, he can bubble distinguish
each that the water drips through. "If I such power in the wilderness see a need, I'm my own life,
remember," think the fiddler. "Similarly, stubborn as I have my street paved my past all that is I put
in the path. There was his father: he turned toward me like a hard rock. And there was looking mother
to keep quiet as it were between me and Mooshügelchen embed me.

But
I crept to the father and mother over and beyond the world went into it. "" Haha, yeah, I think,
mother sits at home and crying to me yet, but what cares me! She could understand but can
that be had something from me, and should not have try to be opposed
to me.

"Impatient he pulls few leaves from a bush from one and throws it into the stream. -" So I have
to all torn at home, "he says when he sees how the water leaves the
forttreibt. -"

If only you know whether mother has learned that now I play the best man in Värmland am, "he says
as he continues moves. He goes forward with vigorous steps, until he comes back to a dock. Since
he is again and looks down into the stream.

Under the bridge, the current in tearing foam case and makes a terrible din. Because it is night, you
hear very different sounds than in the day, and the musician is surprised
very much, as he stops and listens.

There is no song of birds in the forest and no play in the needles and no rustling in the leaves.
No wagon wheels creaking on the way, and cowbells ringing no. You only hear the mountain stream,
but just so you can hear it well umsoviel better and different than
during the day.

It sounds as if everything in the depth of the river and would be
unthinkable thinkable.

Above all, it sounds as if someone down there sitting and large stones
grain milled between, but sometimes it sounds as if cups a drinking
binge together come in, and sometimes you hear a murmur, as if the congregation
of the church comes from and to the service, in animated conversation
on the church hill stands. - "This is probably a kind of music," thinks
the musician, "though I can not find it so far here is special.

I would think that way, which I recently had placed more
value is that they listen to.

"But the longer the game man stands and
listens to the waterfall, better and better the more he likes the
song. - I really think you take yourself together, "he says to the
waterfall.

"You
must well remember that the best musician throughout Värmland stands
by and listens to you." In the very moment when he says this, he
thinks, depth a few metallklare sounds to be heard from, as if someone
of a string plucks, check whether they agree.

Look here, "now is the Aquarius even come to the point, I hear, as he tugs at his fiddle," says the
musician, and laughs. "But I can not just stop here all night and the waiting that you start," he calls
down into the water immediately.

"Now I must go on, but I promise you that I was the next stop on the bridge also will listen, if
you too.'ve started playing, "he moves further, and while the current in a winding path into the
wood hineinläuft, his back he begins to think of. his home -" and
I want to know how it with the little brook is that our homestead
passes by, I would like to see once again.

I ought to go home again, to see whether the mother has a hard time and
meager, since his father is dead - if I could only find the time.

But I'm so busy, because it is almost impossible. I can find time to nothing else than for my fiddle
and there is hardly one evening a week where I would be free. "After a little while, he meets the
stream again, and so he comes allsogleich to other thoughts. With this transition comes the mountain
stream in a thundering waterfall herangestürzt not, but it flows gently over completely. Jet black
and shiny it is below the nocturnal gray trees of the forest and
still carries here and there white Schaumkamm of the upper cases.

As the fiddler on the little bridge is one and no other sound from the river sounds as here and
there a faint murmur, he begins to laugh again at. - "I could so I think the neck would not
be easy to get to the rendezvous," he called.

"Of course I have always heard that he should be capable a musician, but so very far away it can
not be with him when he is always very quiet in the creek and never
get to hear something new.

He knows that here is someone who understands the facts better than he, and why he wants to hear
can not. "It goes on and he loses the power back out of sight.

He is coming to an area of the forest, it more sinister and scary to walk through own eyes. As
debris is the ground of stones and covered with fir and twisted roots
snake through in between.

If there is something dangerous in the forest or Bewitched exist, you should probably think it
would just be kept hidden here. the musician between the wild stone blocks come when it overflows
a shudder, and he begins consideration of whether it would not have
had it unwise to Neck to boast before.

It seems to him that the great pine roots against him making gestures, as if to threaten him. -
"Beware, you who want to be more you than the Aquarius," they seem
to say.

The musician feels like the heart to fear him zusammenschnürt before. Such a burden lies on him
chest that he can hardly breathe, and his hands are cold.

He remains in the middle of the way and are looking at themselves reason to award. - "There is still
no musician in the waterfall," he says. "That is just superstition and old wives' tale . Therefore
it does not matter what I said I had told him or not. "As he speaks, he looks around in the woods,
as if to find confirms that there are so behave himself as he said. If it had been days, it
probably would have every leaf blinked him that in the forest, nothing
dangerous there, but now at night are all the trees, and dumb as closed
and look as they Barge dangerous secrets.

The musician is also more anxious. What inspires him most on terror, is that he once again must
go to the power of before and the way to separate the different sides and pull. He does not know what
the Aquarian will do to him if he goes on the last bridge . Maybe he is big black hand from the water
up and stretch it a draw in the depth. He has such a fear of scaring
that he seriously thinks to turn back.

But
then he would take back the power, yes. And if he deviated from the path and went in deeper
in the forest, then he would probably meet him as the squirmed and
wriggled.

It feels so afraid that he does not know what to start. He is caught by the river, bound and trapped
and sees no possibility of escape.

But now he begins to run as fast as his legs bear the want, because it's something occurred
to him: "Just here the river makes a wide bend in the forest beyond. The Aquarius has a lot to the
next bridge way further than me. Maybe I can overtake him before he came to the finish line is.
"And he runs, he runs.

* * * * * At last he sees the last bridge before him.

Just opposite on the other side of the mountain stream is an old mill, which
stands abandoned many years so in love already.

The large water wheel hangs motionless above the water, the sluice rotted on the earth above,
the dolphins are moss covered with, and in the empty roof hatches proliferate Steinwurz and
lichens. - "If it were still as before, and here people were," thinks
the musician, "then I would now all danger redeemed from."

But it calms him yet to see a house that remains of the work of man is one, and when he current exceeds
that, he has almost no longer afraid. It happens to him absolutely
nothing dangerous.

The Aquarius seems no harm to him to want to. The musician only wonders
about himself, that he worried about absolutely nothing Such fear
has even let scare.

He feels very happy and secure, and even happier
he is, when the door of the mill opens and a young girl coming towards
him.

She looks just like an ordinary peasant girl.

It has a cotton cloth on his head, a short skirt and a loose bodice, but the feet are bare. She goes
to the musician and says to him without hesitation: - "Will you play
me one, I will give you a dance. - "Yes, of course," says the musician,
who is in a good mood because he has shaken off his fear, "I do not
mind. belongings but never a beautiful girl who wanted to dance, said
no."

He is on a stone next to the mill-dam, rejects the fiddle
to his chin and raised to play.

The girl takes a few steps to the rhythm to his game, but then it stops. - "What's that for a polka,
you as play, "she says.

"There is indeed no strength in it." The musician changes the melody, he tried with one, the
more momentum is. The girl remains dejected stand it. - After such Schleppolka "can not dance myself,"
she says. Since agrees with the musician wildest way to the one he knows. - "Are you the poor,"
he says, "then you have to play man to call someone who is better
than I can."

As he says this, he feels, that a hand grabs his arm straight at
the elbow and to keep the bow and to fuel the cycle begins.

Since the violin emanates a way that their peers never before has he
heard. It is a so agile clock is that it seems to him, rolling wheel could one
not follow her. - "Yes, that's what I call a polka," says the girl
and begins in a circle to turn.

But the musician, she sees not. He is so amazed at the way he plays,
he closes his eyes to hear better.

When he hits after a while, the girl is gone, but he does not think more. He plays on and on
because he has never before heard such a violin. - "But now it may
well be time to stop," he thinks, and will eventually bow down to.

* * * * * But the bow stimulates further. He can not bring to a halt.
It slides up and down over the strings and pulls with the hand and
arm.

And the hand that includes the violin neck and fingering on the strings that can not get away.
The cold sweat musician joins the forehead, and he now really frightened.
- "How will this do?

Should
I till the last day and sitting here playing, "he wonders in despair. The bow hunting and then
conjures up a way out after another, it is always something new and
so nice to think that the poor must: -"

The on my violin playing, understands the art. But I am all my life
a miserable bungler was.

Only then
did I learn how music should sound. "For a few moments it can be carried away the music so that he forgets
his unfortunate fate.

But then he feels pain in his arms, fatigue, and he is new again
seized by despair. - "This violin I can not lay by me until I've played
to death.

I notice that the neck was not previously considered satisfactory.

"He begins to cry over him even as he continues to play forever. -"

It would have been better for me when I'm in small cottage in the mother stayed at home would be
. What is worthy of all glory, if it be to end this, "As he sits hour after hour. It is morning,
the sun rises and the birds sing around him to her. But he plays, he
plays without intermission. Since it is a Sunday, which falls, quite
alone, he will sit on the old mill.

No one wanders into the woods. They
all go to church in the valley, and in the villages that bordered the
great highway.

It is morning, the sun rises higher and
higher. The birds fall silent, but it begins in the long needles of the
fir trees rustle. He can not stop the heat of the summer of.

He plays, he plays. It is finally evening, the sun sinks to rest, but his statement does not rest and
his arm continues to move. - "It is quite certain that this is my death," he says. "And it is a
just punishment for my insolence."

In the dead of night is the first person he has seen throughout the
day, wandering through the forest.

It is a poor old dame with a bent back and gray hair and a face many
of the concerns is careworn. - "That's strange," thinks the musician.

"It seems to me as if I know little woman would have the old. Can it be possible that the mother is?
Can it be possible that mother is old and gray become so?

"He calls out and asks her. -" Mother, Mother, come here to me, "he
says.

She remains reluctant as possible. - "I hear that you're the best
musician in the Värmland," she says.

"What's
a poor old woman like me to create?" - "Mother, Mother, do not go
past me," cried the fiddler, "come here and look at me!"

As they come closer and see how He sits there and plays.

The face is pale as a corpse, her hair dripping with sweat, and blood
drips his nail roots from beneath. - "Mother," says the musician,
"now I've sometimes death played too, but tell me beforehand, if you
can forgive me, that I have you at your age alone and had poor live?

"-"
Yes, certainly, in God the Redeemer, name, forgive you, "I said the
mother.

But as she puts it, remains the bow stand, the fiddle comes from
the rigid fingers to the ground, and the musician is redeemed and
saved to.

Because
the spell is broken, because his elderly mother has come to him and
God over pronounced him names.

One more piece of life history (Written for my fiftieth birthday),
the first prophecy makes it think that it the old manor Morbacka on
to the twentieth November in the year 1858 has been received very
restless.

A child is days rather late in the evening have been born this on,
and this brings even more confusion and excitement, even in a place
where you practice, the calm to take life that and being of a thing
to do nothing more than they really deserve.

On the dark evening, about nine clock, is the pastor, the neighbor's
house lived in, and puts his head kitchen door in at the.

It is a
little old woman, a cousin and good friend, of all people called Aunt
Wennervik.

She can not stand it at home,
but has thrown a shawl over her head, took a lantern in his hand and on
the narrow short cut, which runs behind the garden, herübergetappt,
listen to how they were.

The pastor will equal to the chamber led off the kitchen. There lives the old woman Lagerlof, widow
of the writer's regiment Lagerlof, even today, as she lives as usual,
has her whole, as a young girl and a married woman.

She is seated, white-haired and seventy, in their corner of the sofa
and knit the grandchildren stockings, just like always.

Inside, all is quiet with her, and she is quiet, for the son, the Lieutenant, the father's death,
the estate has taken over after his is just been here and told her
that the worst was over, and the child came to the world .

 For yourself you know that
I have the highest esteem, and that you must be convinced of when I have consented to the match
without even making inquiry as to your family and connections. Now, however, is the time that
I should wish to have some information about them."

"My dear Sir, if you will only make inquiries, you will find that the family of Musgrave is
one of the most highly connected in the north, and that the head of it is a or was Sir Richard
Musgrave, Baronet, of Faristone Hall, in Cumberland. I am a near relative of his, as I can
satisfactorily prove."

"That is sufficient," replied Mr. Trevannion. "I shall leave you to plead your cause with Amy
to-morrow; so now, good night."

The following day I told Amy that, since my arrival in England, I had heard of the death of
my father, and that it was necessary that I should go to the north, as family affairs required
my presence.

"Are you serious?" replied she.

"Never more so in my life. My presence is absolutely necessary, and I made arrangements with
the legal adviser of our family that I would be there in less than a month."

"It is a long journey," said Mr. Trevannion, "and how long to you stay?"

"That I cannot possibly say," replied I; "but not longer than I can help."

"I do not think that I shall let you go," said Amy; "you are not to be trusted out of sight.
You are so born for adventure that you will not be heard of again for another two years."

"Such is my misfortune, I grant," replied I; "but, Amy, you look pale and thin; change of air
would do you much service. Suppose you and your father were to come with me. Indeed, Mr. Trevannion,
I am in earnest. At this delightful time of the year nothing would prove so beneficial to her
health; and, Amy, then, you know, that I shall not be out of your sight."

"I should like the tour very much," replied she, "but--"

"I know what you would say. You do not like the idea of travelling with me as Amy Trevannion.
You are right. Then let me propose that you travel with me as Amy Musgrave."

"I second that proposal," said Mr. Trevannion.

"Consent, Amy, let our marriage be quite private. I know you will prefer that it should be
so, and so will your father. You will then travel with me as my wife, and we never shall part
again."

Amy did not reply till her father said, "Amy, it is my wish that it should be so. Recollect
it will be the last time that you have to obey your father, so do not annoy me by a refusal."

"I will not, my dear father," replied Amy, kissing him. "Your last command I obey with pleasure.
And oh! if I have sometimes been a wilful girl, forgive me every thing at this moment."

"My dear child, I have nothing to forgive. May God bless you; and, Mr. Musgrave," said he,
putting her hand in mine, "if she proves as good a wife as she has been a daughter, you now
receive a treasure," and I felt that the old man stated what was true.

It was arranged that the marriage should take place on that day week, and that it should be
quite private. There was no parade of bridal clothes; in fact, no one was invited, and it was
at my request quite a secret marriage. A clergyman had been engaged to perform the ceremony,
and, on the day appointed, I received the hand of my Amy in the drawing-room, and in the presence
only of Humphrey and two other confidential servants.

After the ceremony was over, the clergyman requested me to come with him into the adjoining
room, and said, it was necessary that he should give a certificate of the marriage, which must
be inserted in the parish register. He had called me aside for that purpose, that I might give
him my exact name, profession, &c.

"My name is Alexander Musgrave, as you have heard when you married us."

"Yes, I know that, but I must be particular. Have you no other name? Is that the name that
you have been and will be in future known by?"

"Not exactly," replied I; "I have been known by that name, but in future shall not be."

"Then what am I to say?"

"You must say, Sir Alexander Musgrave, Baronet, of Faristone Hall, Cumberland."

"Good," said he, "that is what I required; and the lady your wife, has she any other name but Amy?"

"None, I believe."

The clergyman then wrote out the marriage certificate, and signed it, taking a copy for registry,
and we returned into the drawing-room.

"Here is the certificate of marriage, Madam," said he; "it ought to be in the care of the lady,
and therefore, my lady, I hand it over to you."

"My lady is much obliged to you for your kindness," replied Amy, for she thought that the clergyman
was only facetious.

She held the certificate in her hand folded as it had been given her for some time. At last
curiosity, or, perhaps, having nothing else to do, induced her to open it and read it. I was
at this time talking with the clergyman, and presenting him with a handsome douceur for his
trouble; but perceiving her to open the certificate, I watched her countenance. She read and
started. I turned away as if not observing her. She then went up to her father and desired
him to read it.

The old gentleman took out his glasses, and it was amusing to see the way in which he looked
at his daughter with his spectacles falling off his nose. He then came up, and pointing to
the certificate said, "Pray how am I in future to address my daughter?"

"As Amy, I trust, Sir, unless you wish to scold her, and then you must call her Lady Musgrave.
I am, my dear Sir, as the certificate states, Sir Alexander Musgrave, of Faristone, with a
handsome property descended to me. I did not know it till I arrived in London, and if I concealed
it from you till now, it was only that my Amy should have the satisfaction of proving to me
that she wedded me in pure disinterestedness of affection."

"It was very, very kind of you, Alexander, to do as you have done, and I thank you sincerely
for it."

"And now, my dear Amy, you understand why I wished you to come with me to Cumberland, that
you may take possession of your future abode, and assume that position in society which you
will so much grace. I trust, Sir," continued I, "that you will not part from us, and that one
roof will always cover us, as long as Heaven thinks fit to spare our lives."

"May God bless you both," replied Mr. Trevannion, "I cannot part with you, and must follow."

About half an hour after this, I requested Amy and Mr. Trevannion to sit by me, as I had now
another narrative to give them, which was an explanation why and how it was that they found
me in the position that they had done; in short, what were the causes that induced me, and
afterwards my brother Philip, to quit our parental roof, and to come to the resolution of fighting
our own way in the world. It was as follows:

"Sir Richard Musgrave, my father, married a young lady of high connection, a Miss Arabella
Johnson, and with her lived, I have every reason to believe, a very happy life for nearly twenty-five
years, when it pleased God to summon her away. I have a good recollection of my mother; for
although I lived with my brother at a private tutor's, about six miles off, I was continually
at home, and she did not die till I was nearly sixteen; and I can only say, that a more elegant,
amiable, and truly virtuous woman, as I believe, never existed. By this marriage my father
had four sons and two daughters; Richard, the eldest; Charles, the second; myself, the third;
and Philip, the fourth; and my sisters, who came last, were named Janet and Mabel. At the time
of my mother's death, my eldest brother was serving with the army, which he had entered from
a love of the profession, although, as heir to the baronetcy and estates, which are a clear
4,000l. per annum, he of course had no occasion for a profession. My second brother, Charles,
being of an adventurous turn, had gone out to the East Indies in a high position, as servant
to the Company. I was still at home, as well as Philip, who is four years my junior, and my
sisters were of course at home. I pass over my regrets at my mother's death, and will now speak
more of my father. He was a good-tempered, weak man, easily led, and although, during my mother's
lifetime, he was so well led that it was of little consequence, the case proved very different
at her death. For a year my father remained quiet in the house, content with superintending
his improvements on his property, and he had lately become infirm, and had given up the hounds
and rural sports in general. The dairy was one of his principal hobbies; and it so happened
that a young girl, the daughter of a labourer, was one of the females employed in that part
of the establishment. She was certainly remarkably good-looking; her features were very small,
and she did not show that robust frame which people in her class of life generally do. She
was about seventeen years old, slight in figure, and certainly a person that you would not
pass without making some commendatory remark upon her good looks and modest appearance. She
was not, however, what she appeared; she was beyond measure cunning and astute, and, as it
proved, inordinately ambitious. My father, who was naturally of an amorous disposition, was
attracted by her, and very soon was constantly in the dairy, and his attentions were so marked,
that the other servants used to call her 'my lady.' A few months after my father had shown
a preference for this girl, he was seized with his first attack of gout. It did not last him
long, and in six weeks he was about again, and resumed his attentions to her. Philip and I,
who were at our tutor's, when we came home, heard from others what was going on, and very foolishly
played the girl many tricks, and annoyed her as much as we could. After we returned, my father
had another fit of the gout, and when he was confined to his room, he desired this girl to
be sent for to attend upon him. I cannot say what took place, but this is certain, that my
father's unfortunate passion became so great, and I presume the girl's ambition rose in proportion,
that about six months afterwards, this daughter of a menial was raised to the dignity of Lady
Musgrave--she being at that time about eighteen, and my father verging on seventy.

"When this ill-assorted and disgraceful connection was known, the gentry and aristocracy of
the county refused any longer to visit my father, and all communication was broken off. In
a short time the ascendency which this artful girl gained over the old man was most wonderful.
He lived but in her sight, and knew no will but hers. Her father and family were removed to
a good house in the neighbourhood, and gave themselves all the airs of gentlepeople. The good
old steward was dismissed, and her father established in his room, although the man could not
read or write, and was wholly unfit for the office. The expense which she launched out into,
by his permission, was excessive. New liveries, new coaches, diamonds, and dresses fit for
the court--indeed, every kind of luxury that could be conceived, and much greater than my father
could afford. She now showed herself in her true colours; vindictive and tyrannical to excess,
she dismissed all the old servants, and oppressed all those to whom she owed a grudge; yet
my poor father could see nothing but perfection in her. It was not till four months after the
marriage that Philip and I came home, and our new step-mother had not forgotten our treatment
of her. She treated us with great harshness, refused our taking meals at my father's table,
and ordered us the coarsest fare; and when we complained to my father, denied every thing that
we said. As we found that we could not induce our father to listen to us or to believe us,
we tried all we could, and retaliated and annoyed her as much, if not more, than she annoyed
us, by talking of her mean origin and her former occupation; we defied her, and, in so doing,
we ruined ourselves; for, after a useless struggle on my father's part, he gave way to her
imperious commands, and sending for me, told me that I had become such a reprobate that I was
no longer a son of his. He threw me a purse, telling me that it was all I might expect from
him, and that I was instantly to leave the house, and never show my face in it any more. I
replied, with more spirit than respect, that it was high time that the son of a gentleman and
lady should leave the house, when such lowborn creatures were installed in it as the mistress.
My father, in a rage, flung his crutch at my head, and I left the room.

"As I went out I met her in the passage; she had evidently been listening to what had passed,
and she was full of exultation.

"'It is your turn now, you she-devil,' said I, in my rage; 'but wait till my father dies. You
shall go a-milking again.'

"I do not mean to defend my conduct, but I was then no seventeen, and that must be my excuse.
I little thought, when I said so, that it would be from my hands that she would have to receive
bounty, but so it is, as Mr. Campbell informs me that my father destroyed, previous to his
death, the papers which he had signed to secure her a large jointure on the estate. I set off
with my wardrobe and the purse of twenty guineas, which my father had given me, and having
a desire to see the world, I went on board of a merchant vessel. Six months afterwards, when
we were at Liverpool, I went on board of a privateer. The remainder of my history you are already
acquainted with.

"As soon as she had wreaked her vengeance upon me, my brother Philip was the next; but he was
too young at that time to be turned adrift, so she put it off till the time should come, irritating
and weaning my father from him by every means in her power. Three years afterwards she succeeded
in having him dismissed, also, and you know how I found him out. All these circumstances were
very well known in the neighbourhood and to our own relations; and one only, my aunt, called
upon my father, and, after a long conversation, my father consented that my sisters should
go away, and remain under her charge. My step-mother's violent temper, her exactions, her imperious
conduct, which was now shown even towards him, with what my aunt had advanced, had to a certain
extent opened my father's eyes. He perceived that she had no other view but her own aggrandisement,
and that she cared little for him. Her repeated attempts, however, to make him sign in her
favour, in case of his death, were successful, and it was not till after her conduct had alienated
him from her, and he deplored the loss of his children, that he committed the deed to the flames.
About three years after I had quitted the house, my eldest brother, who had information of
all that had passed, and who remained in the army because he declared that he never would go
home till after his father's death, was killed by a cannon-ball; and my second brother died
of a fever about a year ago, when resident at the court of a native prince. I had heard nothing
of these deaths, or of my father's, until my arrival in London; of course, I was most anxious
to go down to Cumberland, if it were only to undo the wickedness which this woman had done,
and to make amends to those whom she had so cruelly treated. I do not feel any spirit of revenge,
but I feel that justice demands it of me."

"And I shall go with you with pleasure, to help you in your good work," said Amy, "and also
because I want to see how she will now behave to one whom she has so persecuted, and who has
become the arbiter of her fate."

"Well, Amy, I will not trust myself on this question. You shall be the arbitress of her fate,
and what you decide shall be irrevocable."

"I fully appreciate the compliment you pay me," said she, "but I prefer that it should be decided
in council, and we will call in my father to our assistance."

A fortnight after our marriage, we set off for London, in a coach with six handsome black horses,
and eight armed servants in liveries on horseback. We arrived safely on the seventh day, and
there we reposed for a time previous to setting out for Cumberland. My aunt was in London and
attending the court, which I was not aware of, and with her were my two sisters, Janet and
Mabel, whom I had not seen for years, and who warmly embraced me, promising that they would
soon come down and take up their abode at the hall. They expressed their admiration of Amy,
but, in so doing, they only followed the general opinion, for it was impossible to see and
not admire her elegance and beauty. My aunt showed us every attention, and we were presented
to his Majesty, who was pleased to compliment Lady Musgrave in very flattering terms. From one of
the tables here, he could hear even the name of Foerster, which he had learned coincidentally,
but the speaker has received from its neighbor a blow with his elbow, and
gradually conversation came a loud in motion, as the farmers about
crop and fruit prices season to lead to such care. At last the axle
was made, and the carriage rolled away.

Richard sat himself immersed in; a vague, uneasy feeling had seized
him, and he could not look forward to the homecoming, informal structures
for some distant eerie gray fog pressed upon him.

If only he only then would be, but only Franziska face other again! And further it went, and
ever closer to joining the woods. Even bumped the car between the oak bush about the hard heath
soil, and finally climbed the roof of the house to him before, and
he saw the weather vanes in the evening sun shining.

But there, what came out of the shadows of the forest side, she was
herself, in her yellow dress, her Strohhuetchen, quite clearly he
had recognized it.

She seemed not to have noticed the car because she beat the direction of the house after,
but he leaned over and cried over the heath, "Franzi!

Franzi"
- so she stopped, and when he had called once more she turned and came closer slowly. At last he
could see her face, her eyes were so big and dark over the pale cheeks, and he said they have never
seen such. Before the car stopped, he had already jumped down and joined her in his arms. "Thank
God!" he cried, and sighed, as mountains Last fall one of his chest,
"I felt as if I could you have lost," and she said only: "What dreams
have for them," but while the head of his heart was in her were her
eyes on their side standing dog liked to.

The nose had stretched out to the forest, the direction in which Franzi had just left him, and sniffed
the air around in increasingly violent.

Almost mechanically grabbed her little hand into the metal collar of the animal. "Let us go home, Richard,"
she said hastily, "and keep the dog so he does not like the other day chasing the deer." He did not
indicate that he had eyes only for the young figure, which he held in his arms, which he raised as
a child now in the car.

Then he whistled to his dog, and soon they had gone home for the
short distance to the.

 We had the consultation that Amy proposed, and called in Mr. Campbell as a fourth,
and it was at last decided, that, on consideration that she removed with her family to a distance
of fifty miles from Faristone, she should have an income of £300 per annum, as long as she
conducted herself with propriety and did not marry again. The last clause was the only one
which she complained of. Mr. Campbell had, at the request of my father, discharged Lady Musgrave's
parent from the office of steward and called in the old steward to resume his situation, and
before dismissal, he had to refund certain sums of money not accounted for.

I have now told my eventful tale; I have only to add, that after all that I have passed through,
I have been rewarded by many years of unalloyed happiness. My two sisters are well married,
and my three children are all that a father could wish. Such, my dear Madam, have been the
vicissitudes of a "Privateer's-man," and I now subscribe myself,

    Your most obedient,

        ALEXANDER MUSGRAVE.

THE END.

PRINTED BY BERNH. TAUCHNITZ JUN.

This book uses some archaic and alternative spelling--for example, befal, stupified, faultering--which
has been preserved as printed.

Both l. and £ have been used to indicate currency; this has been preserved as printed.

Punctuation errors have been repaired, and hyphenation has been made consistent, without note. 

her by the other guard uniforms get that? ""

    
    Is it possible? O tell, how?

    How do you know it?
    

    "" Listen, but in the strictest confidence, for it is still
    deep, dark secret.

    Eduard has it of his colonel and confessed it to me recently,
    but under the seal of the deepest secrecy.

    View , the buttons are placed further apart on the chest
    and continue to close down, in this way is much slimmer waist, then
they are golden Achselschnuere also get the white but the Colonel and I
think even the General, not yet certainly . by his trousers done too
late approximations Vera - Eduard must look like an angel - see so
far ...."

    

    Page 151--me to we--"Well, we must first get the vessel
    hired into the service."

    Page 155--asid to said--"... said Mr. Trevannion, taking
    me by the hand, ..."

    Page 201--laynyard to lanyard--"... putting a strong
    leather lanyard to it, ..."

    Page 202--laynyard to lanyard--"... I put the leather
    lanyard round my neck, ..."

    Page 207--althogether to altogether--"... that,
    altogether, we had been robbed to the tune of ..." 

    Oh, you can not imagine how sad my heart is lost if the
    tattoo my window to pass by, they play him every evening after the
new invention, and the one who made him can hear him! "" I am sorry you
right

    
    

.

