A novel, like a metaphor, proves nothing: 't is merely a vivid pictorial presentation of a
single case. I have just read one novel aspiring to prove that a couple who skip the marriage
ceremony cannot be happy ever after, and another aspiring to prove that marriage is the one
drawback to a happy union. In reality both novels prove the same thing--that the author is
a fool. There is nothing I would not undertake to "prove" in a novel. You have only to take
an exceptional case and treat it as if it were normal. Aesop's fables could easily be rewritten
to prove exactly the opposite morals, just as there is no popular apothegm whose antidote may
not be found in the same treasury of folk-wisdom: "Never put off till to-morrow what you can
do to-day," and "Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof"; "Penny wise, pound foolish!"
"Look after the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves."

In sooth I suffer from an inability to see the morals of stories--like the auditor who blunts
the point of the drollest anecdote by inquiring "And what happened then?" Even the beautiful
allegory of the three rings in "Nathan der Weise," always seems to me to throw considerable
discredit on the father who set his sons wrangling over the imitation rings. And, inversely,
nothing seems easier to me than to invent fables to prove wrong morals: e.g.

[Sidenote: The Mouse Who Died]

A pretty gray mouse was in the habit of sauntering from its hole every evening to pick up the
Crumbs in the Dining Boom. "What a pretty Mouse!" said the Householder, and made more crumbs
for Mousie to eat. So great a banquet was thus spread that the Noble-hearted little Mouse cheeped
the news to its Sisters and its Cousins and its Aunts, and they all came every evening in the
Train of its Tail to regale themselves on the remains of the Repast. "Dear, dear!" cried the
Householder in despair, "the house is overrun with a plague of Vermin." And he mixed poison
with the crumbs, and the poor little pioneer Mouse perished in contortions of agony. Moral: Don't.

[Sidenote: Theologic Novels]

Usually the speculations that first reach the great public through the medium of the novel
have been familiar ad nauseam to the reading classes for scores of years. Conceive Noah, aroused
by the grating of the Ark upon the summit of Mount Ararat, looking out of the window and exclaiming,
"Why, it's been raining!" Then imagine Mrs. Noah, catching an odd syllable of her husband's
remark, writing a love story to prove that the barometer portended showers. Finally, picture
the world looking in alarm for its umbrella, and you have an image of the inception and effect
of the modern Mrs. Noah's theologic novel.

   MUDIE MEASURE.

   Ten lines make one page;
   Ten pages make one point;
   Two points make one chapter;
   Five chapters make one episode;
   Two episodes make one volume:
   Three volumes make one tired.

[Sidenote: The Prop of Letters]

Is it a bright or a black day for an author when he gets so popular that the big advertisers
insist on having him in any organ in which they place their advertisements? There can be no
question but that it will be a black day for letters when the advertiser becomes the arbiter
of literature, as this newest development forebodes. Where is this leprosy of advertisement
to stop? Already it covers almost our whole civilisation. Already the advertiser is a main
prop of the press.

  A SONG OF ADVERTISEMENTS. (After Whitman.)

  Give me Hornihand's Pure Mustard;
  Give me Apple's Soap, with the negress laving the cherub;
  Give me Bentley's Brimstone Tablets, and Ploughman's
     Pills--those of the Little Liver.
  (O get me ads., you agent with the frock-coat and the fountain pen,
  You with the large commissions
  And the further discount on cash,
  Get me ads., camarado!
  Full pages preferred, though little ones not scorning,
  For I scorn nothing, my brother.)
  Give me the Alphabetical Snuff;
  Give me Electric Batteries and False Teeth; also the Tooth-powders;
  Give me all the Soft Soaps and the Soothing Syrups;
  Give me all the Cocoas and Cough Lozenges and Corsets;
  Give me Infants' Food--yea, the diet of babes and sucklings;
  Give me the Nibs and the Beef Essences, and do not forget the
     Typewriters.
  (Forget nothing, camarado, for I, the poet, never forget
     anything.)
  Give me of the Fat of your agency, and of the Anti-Fat thereof!
  And I will build you magazines, high-class and well illustrated;
  Or pictureless a volonte, the latter with heavier articles.
  Also newspapers, daily and weekly, with posters flamboyant,
  That shall move the state and its pillars,
  That shall preach the loftiest morals, elevating the masses,
  By the strength of advertisements,
  By the mighty strength of advertisements!

It has been suggested that flypapers should be so sprinkled as to produce an aesthetic design
in dead flies, so as to introduce beauty into the homes of the poor. It would be more in harmony
with the age to lay out our public gardens with floral injunctions to use B's hair-dye and
C's corn-plaster. Brag and display are the road to riches, and the trail of vulgarity is over
it all. I take credit to myself for having been among the first to cry in the wilderness; but
the critics--bless them!--say it is all empty paradox.

[Sidenote: The Latter-day Poet]

The one exception to the hunger for advertisement is the modern bard. He achieves his vogue
by limited editions, and takes pains to prevent himself being an influence. He acquires a factitious
fame and an artificial value by printing only a few copies, thus making his paper and print
sought after rather than his matter. It is all very well for a book to become rare by the vicissitudes
of literary fortune, but this machine-made rarity can only be prized by people who value their
possessions merely because other people haven't got them. The old minor poet was frenzied and
unbought; the new is calm and "collected." At this rate the greatest poets would be those of
whose works only one copy is extant--in MS.

  Bend, bend the knee, and bow the head
  To reverence the great unread,
  The great unread and much-reviewed,
  Whose lines are treasured like the lewd,
  His first editions prizes reckoned
  Because there never was a second.
  Obscurely famous in his rut,
  Unknown, unpopular, "uncut,"
  Where Byron thrilled a continent,
  To thrill an auction-room content,
  He struggles through oblivion's bogs,
  To gain a place in--catalogues!
  And falls asleep and joins the dust
  In simple hope and modest trust
  That, though Posterity neglect
  His bones, his books it will collect,
  And these will grow--O prospect fair!--
  From year to year more "scarce" and "rare."

[Sidenote: An Attack of Alliteration]

Have you noticed the Renaissance of alliteration in the new journalism? The early English Poets
made alliteration the chief element of their poetry, and in modern times Swinburne has paid
more attention to it (and to rhyme) than to meaning, with the result that there has arisen
a school of poets who don't mean anything--and say it. In the olden days, a bride was bonny,
and was requested to busk herself in consequence; all of which was intelligible. Nowadays,
the poet would call a basilisk bonny rather than miss his alliteration. Is it because the new
journalism is so imaginative and emotional that it throws off alliterative phrases as naturally
and unconsciously as Whittier confesses he did in writing "The Wreck of Rivermouth"? It is
sometimes difficult to believe that providence is not on the side of the evening bills. When
Balmaceda died he committed Suicide by Shooting himself in Santiago--of all places in the world.
Boulanger, if from a local point of view he died less satisfactorily, was yet careful to employ
a Bullet. It is for the sake of the phrase-makers that Burglars good-naturedly prefer Bermondsey,
and that Tigers do not escape from their cages to play in Tragedies till the show arrives at
Tewkesbury. The Baboon is already so largely alliterative in himself that it was an excess
of generosity that made one recently attack an infant under such circumstances as to allow
the report to be headed, "Baby Bitten by a Baboon in a Backyard at Bow." Alliteration has become
a mighty factor in politics: it is fast replacing epigram, while its effects on moral character
are tremendous. That "hardened criminal," Mr. Balfour, might have been a good man instead of
a "base brutal bully," if his name had only commenced with an X. He is a noteworthy martyr
to the mania of the times. I am convinced that the Death of the Duke of Devonshire was accelerated
by anxiety to please the sub-editors, and it is a source of real regret to me to reflect that
my own death can afford them no supplementary gratification of this nature.

[Sidenote: The Humorous]

To start anything exclusively funny is a serious mistake. This was why poor Henry J. Byron's
"Mirth" was so short-lived. It died of laughing. A friend of mine, with a hopeless passion
for psychological analysis, says that the reason people do not laugh over comic papers is that
the element of the unexpected is wanting. This, he claims, is the essence of the comic. You
laugh over a humorous remark in the middle of a serious essay, over a witty epigram flashed
upon a grave conversation, over the slipping into the gutter of a ponderous gentleman--it is
the shock of contrast, the flash of surprise, that tickles. Now this explanation of why people
do not laugh over comic papers is obviously wrong, because you are surprised when you see a
joke in a comic paper; at the same time, it contains an element of truth. The books which gain
a reputation for brilliance are those which are witty at wide intervals; the writer who scintillates
steadily stands in his own light.

[Sidenote: The Discount Farce]

Having started your magazine, you will begin humorously enough by affixing a mock price to
it. What a strange world of make-believe it is! We are so habituated to shams that we cannot
help shamming even where there is nothing to be gained by it. Why is music published at four
shillings when you can buy it for one and four, or at most one and eight? Why are novels published
at thirty-one and six and the magazines at a shilling? "Shilling shockers" are sold at ninepence,
which is as comical as selling "tenpenny nails" at sixpence. The same principle rules in other
trades. It almost seems as if there is an ineradicable instinct in humanity for getting things
below their price, even if at more than their value. Hence the marked popularity of "sales"
and "reductions." The idea of getting things cheap reconciles one to getting things one doesn't
want. The craze for cheap things leads one into frightful extravagance. In some shops the weakness
of humanity is pandered to without disguise, and every article is ticketed with a little card,
from which the first price is carefully ruled out, and even on the second price you get a discount
for cash. This same discount for cash is at least intelligible, but business men are painfully
familiar with another wonderful deduction. After you wait months for your money, you get a
cheque less "discount on payment." This seems to involve an exasperating Hibernicism. "On payment,"
forsooth! So long as it remains unpaid, the debt due to you is, say, one hundred pounds. But
the moment you really get it, it shrinks to ninety-five. Why not call it ninety-five at the
start and be done with it? But, no! men will not give up the subtle pleasure of discounts,
ineffably childish though it be. The rather deaf lady who being asked six shillings a yard
for stuff replied "Sixteen shillings a yard! I'll give you eleven," and who, when her mistake
was pointed out, said "I couldn't think of paying more than four and sixpence" was a genuine
type of the population of these islands.

[Sidenote: The Franchise Farce]

One American defense of bribery is as clever as it is cynical. It amounts to this: that universal
suffrage is such a peril to the commonweal that having been given prematurely, it must insidiously
be nullified in practice, even at the cost of universal corruption; in short, if the old society
is to be preserved, universal franchise must be transformed into universal corruption. What
an ironic commentary on the constitution that was founded by George Washington, who couldn't
tell a lie! The honour of America, it appears, "rooted in dishonour" stands, and "faith unfaithful"
makes its politicians falsely true. When one remembers some of the other gigantic evils of
the society thus conserved by corruption, when one thinks of the great immoral capitalists,
playing their game regardless of whom they ruin or whom they enrich, when one thinks of the
squalid slums of the great cities, one wonders whether the society which these things shadow
were not better damned. It were cleaner, at any rate, to abolish universal franchise than to
flaunt this farce in the eyes of Europe. If universal suffrage was a mistake, if indeed the
gift of the franchise does not develop a man's conscience and education--and certainly bribery
is not the way to give him a chance of such development--then why not honestly admit that America
has made this mistake, that the ideals of the Pilgrim Fathers were inferior to Tammany Hall's,
and that even the negro is not a man and a brother?

Does our American reply that it is impossible now to take back the franchise? But on his own
showing the electors merely regard it as an opportunity for extracting "boodle." All that would
be impossible, then, is to take away this ancient concession without compensation. The electors
must be bought out at the full market-value of their votes, with a few cents and corpse-revivers
thrown in for their loss of amusement. At every election dollars and drinks for the ex-electors
would be circulating freely under the direction of the Treasury. And, ex hypothesi, the bulk,
or a number of electors sufficient to annul the danger to society, will accept the liquidation,
and thus the dishonest will be honestly weeded out of the electorate. But if the cynics were
wrong, and there remained among the poorer electorate men sufficiently honest to retain their
votes, and sufficiently numerous to swamp the old society--why, then the devil take the old
society! The object of government is only the good of the majority, and these men, being the
majority, have every right to select their own form of good. If they were mistaken, nature
would soon convince them of their mistake, and the next generation would profit by the object-lesson.
Demos would go on, a sadder and a wiser man.

The solution of the question is that the people must not only govern: it must be fit to govern.
To corrupt it with dollars, to drowse it with drink, is only to put off the inevitable day.
It were far wiser to help it to educate itself for its functions. For, if the revolutionary
economic ideas that are in the air are false, they will destroy themselves. And if they are
true, they have got to be realised, and will get themselves realised. No amount of corruption
will save society in the long run. Meantime, either let universal suffrage operate honestly,
or let it be suspended or abolished. Let even those States which have enfranchised the black
man, and which now, in accordance with the deep Machiavellian principle, brazenly revealed
by our American, dishonestly render his vote nugatory by a reliable inaccuracy in the counting,
withdraw their spurious Christianity. A double standard of morals subtly infects the whole
core of the nation. Corruption cannot be localised; it creeps and spreads through all departments
of thought and action. To give with the right hand, and take away with the left in exchange
for a few dollars, is a manoeuvre unworthy of a great nation. The transaction is fair; let
it be above board, let it be lifted into the plane of ethics. To found society upon a farce
is to lower those ideals by which, as much as by bread, a nation lives.

[Sidenote: The Modern War Farce]

The horrors of war seem to have reached the vanishing point in our latest African campaign.
The smallness of the English losses is appalling. I do not see the fun of fighting (i.e., of
paying taxes) if all the spice and relish is to be taken out of the results. I want more blood
for my money--hecatombs of corpses. Two men killed in a whole battle? Ridiculous! If I cannot
have my war at my own doors, and hear the bands and the cannon I have paid for, I must at least
have sensational battle-fields--Actiums and Waterloos and Marengos. What is the use of war
if it does not even serve to reduce our surplus population? Soldiering was never so healthy
an occupation as to-day; one fights only a few days a year at the utmost, and if the pay is
poor, so is that of the scavenger and the engine-driver and the miner, and everybody else who
does the dirty work of civilisation, and does it, too, without pomp and circumstance and brass
bands and laureates.

[Sidenote: Fireworks]

If people cannot do without sulphur and noise, there are always fireworks. It is difficult
to imagine festivity without them, and yet there must have been a time when rockets did not
rise or Catherine wheels go round. You cannot have fireworks without gunpowder, and every school-boy
knows that gunpowder was only invented in--I haven't got a dictionary of dates handy. Surely
we ought to let off fireworks on Roger Bacon's birthday. "They let off fireworks when he was
born," say the French in a slyly witty proverb, which is a circumlocutory way of saying that
a man won't set the Thames on fire. For "he has not invented gunpowder" is the French equivalent
for this idiom of ours, and it is obvious to the meanest intellect that a man whose birth was
celebrated by fireworks could not have been the inventor of gunpowder. And yet there were fireworks
of a kind from the earliest times, from the first appearance of stars in the firmament with
their wandering habits and shooting expeditions. And, indeed, did not humanity long regard
the heavens as a firework show for its amusement, a set piece entirely for its delectation?
Mankind has always been fond of playing with fire--ever since Prometheus stole it from heaven
and burnt his fingers. I am convinced the ancients only used bonfires for messages so as to
enjoy the flare-up on the mountains. Who would not fight when summoned by a tongue of flame?

  And the red glare on Skiddaw roused the burghers of Carlisle.

Roman candles were unknown to the Romans, but they enjoyed themselves with torches, and these
were the fireworks at wedding fetes. The golden rain in which Jupiter wooed Danae was another
sort of hymeneal fireworks. There were fireworks at the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah.
The love of fireworks is a natural passion. Does not nature amuse herself with fireworks, especially
on tropical summer nights? She loves to flash her lightnings (which are not to be put out by
the rain), and to crash her thunder (which, as everybody knows, is only the report of the meeting
of two electric clouds). And who does not admire her grand pyrotechnic display--twice daily--at
sunrise and at sunset, or her celebrated local effect, the Aurora Borealis?

I have loved fireworks from boyhood, and would rather have had dry bread and fireworks than
cake with jam. In manhood often I have listened to the long-drawn ecstatic "aw" of the Crystal
Palace crowd. I have even written a poem on fireworks. Here it is:--

  A dazzling fiery show of sphery rainbows,
  Whereof each wonder, monarch of a moment,
  Yields up its glory to the next one's splendour,
  And sadly sinks into the arms of darkness.

Is it not a true simile of the favour of the fickle crowd? The most brilliant phenomena are
forgotten after a moment. Life and Time are full of such fireworks--religions, philosophies,
fashions, dynasties. And overhead the sure stars shine on. In literature fireworks rarely last.
They are too clever to live. A humble rushlight lasts longer. "All fireworks are unsound,"
says Steinitz. He is talking of chess, and chess is very much like life. Whistler has painted
fireworks--I mean literally--in his blue and silver nocturne of old Battersea Bridge. Tennyson
has painted them in his "Welcome to Alexandra" and elsewhere.

  Flash, ye cities, in rivers of fire!
  Rush to the roof, sudden rocket, and higher,
  Melt into stars for the land's desire!

"Sudden rocket." How good the adjective is! A poet I know spent hall a day in finding the correct
epithet for rockets, and was equally pleased and annoyed to discover subsequently that he had
chosen the same adjective as the Master.

[Sidenote: Time's Forelock.]

Nowadays we let off all our fireworks a day before the fair and tug Time by his forelock. A
magazine coming out in January must be dated February at the very earliest. We "go ahead" in
an Irish-American sense, and cannot endure not to be in advance of our age. We live entirely
in the future, and are too busy to live just at present. Christmas falls late in October and
extends to the end of November, the period being marked by heavy showers of Christmas numbers.
The Jews begin all their festivals the day before, and Christmas is by far the most Jewish
of our holidays. Our evening papers come out in the morning, though this will right itself
in time, for they are getting earlier and earlier, and will ultimately come out the evening
before. Dr. Johnson's line about Shakespeare, "And panting Time toils after him in vain," is
truer of the man of to-day. What's that you say? All this has been said before? Naturally.

[Sidenote: Diaries.]

Who is the most marvellous man? He who keepeth a diary. And by keeping a diary I mean keeping
it for the whole year, from January 1st to December 31st--keeping it, moreover, by daily entry.
Only one year in my life did I succeed in filling up every department of the three hundred
and sixty-five, and even then I was often in arrears. Diaries are for those who lead cloistral
lives and pure, so that the task is trivial, and whatsoever record of their own leap to light
they shall not be shamed. Diaries are not for those whose existence is a whirlpool; for such
the blank page is an added perturbation, a haunting whiteness beseeching the blackness of diurnal
autobiography, an I O U that calls for instant satisfcation. To the spontaneous vexings of
conscience has been added an artificial pricking at the neglect of a supererogatory duty. How
have I blonched to see day adding itself to day, unrecorded, time flying without being "kodak'd"
on the wing; and each new neglect retarding the day of reckoning even while it aggravated it!
Then have I felt myself sinking beneath the self-imposed

  Yoke, intolerable, not to be borne
  Of the too vast orb of my fate,

yearning for a smaller circumference and a shorter biography. At the outset one begins a diary,
as one practises a new virtue, or plays with a new toy--enthusiastically. For the first few
days of January the entries are rich in psychological and episodical matter. Then gradually
the interest trails off; to the fertile plains of narrative and analysis succeeds a barren
desert, relieved only by a few dates of appointments. With Mark Twain it will be remembered
the entries were reduced to "Got up, washed, went to bed." The keeping of a diary is generally
the first New Year resolution to be broken. How eloquent these old diaries filled up for a
month or two--and the rest silence!

On second thoughts there is a more marvellous than the most marvellous man. It is he who keepeth
a pecuniary diary. I know one such. He has kept a perfect and absolutely complete record of
every farthing he has laid out since the days when farthings were his standard of currency.
Which of us would dare do this, or, doing, would dare cast a backward glance on the financial
past? There is a crude, relentless actuality about items of expenditure, not to be softened
by euphemistic phrasing. Surely a truer proverb than any of its species would be: "Tell me
what you buy, and I'll tell you what you be." And to think, in reviewing your pecuniary biography,
that, though you owe no man a farthing, you have still to pay the bill; that many things you
have bought have yet to be paid for "over and over again," as the Master Builder said, "over
and over again."

[Sidenote: "Looking Backward"]

Looking backward is a luxury which should be indulged in only moderation--say once in fifty
years. The preachers will tell you differently. But life is so restless and feverish nowadays
that there is no time for obeying the preachers. It is as much as we can do to find time to
listen to them. Goethe says, "He who looks forward sees only one way to pursue, but he who
looks backward sees many." This is the last word on the subject. It speaks volumes. But as
you cannot walk through any of those backways, what is the use of bothering to look for them?
True, your own experience enables you to give advice to others. But advice is a drug in the
market. What am I saying? A drug! No, no! Even a drug is taken sometimes. Advice never is.
We learn only from our own mistakes, and when it is too late to profit by them. No; there is
not much profit in looking backwards. Often it tends to make you pessimistic, to sap your energy,
to petrify you, as it did Lot's wife. At other times, contrariwise, it makes you expel such
salt as is already in you, dissolved in tears--

  So sweet, so sad, the days that are no more.

Yet what is this but another form of Buskin's "Pathetic fallacy"? Those divinely sweet, sad
days were in reality just as commonplace as to-day.

  Life is a chaos of comic confusion,
    Past things alone take a halo harmonious;
  So from illusion we wake to illusion,
    Each as the rest just as true and erroneous.

