The intelligence that the trial was coming on was brought by Sedley's counsel, Mr. Simon Harcourt.
They set forth for the County Hall up the sharply-rising street, thronged with people, who
growled and murmured at the murderer savagely, Sir Philip, under the care of his son-in-law,
and Anne with her uncle.  Mr. Harcourt was very hopeful; he said the case for the prosecution
had not a leg to stand on, and that the prisoner himself was so intelligent, and had so readily
understood the line of defence to take, that he ought to have been a lawyer.  There would be
no fear except that it might be made a party case, and no stone was likely to be left unturned
against a gentleman of good loyal family.  Moreover Mr. William Cowper, whom Robert Oakshott,
or rather his wife, had engaged at great expense for the prosecution, was one of the most rising
of barristers, noted for his persuasive eloquence, and unfortunately Mr. Harcourt had not the
right of reply.

The melancholy party were conducted into court, Sir Philip and Sir Edmund to the seats disposed
of by the sheriff, beside the judge, strangely enough only divided by him from Major Oakshott.
The judge was Mr. Baron Hatsel, a somewhat weak-looking man, in spite of his red robes and
flowing wig, as he sat under his canopy beneath King Arthur's Round Table.  Sedley, perhaps
a little thinner since his imprisonment, but with the purple red on his face, and his prominent
eyes so hard and bold that it was galling to know that this was really the confidence of innocence.

Mr. Cowper was with great ability putting the case.  Here were two families in immediate neighbourhood,
divided from the first by political opinions of the strongest complexion; and he put the Oakshott
views upon liberty, civil and religious, in the most popular light.  The unfortunate deceased
he described as having been a highly promising member of the suite of the distinguished Envoy,
Sir Peregrine Oakshott, whose name he bore.  On the death of the eldest brother he had been
recalled, and his accomplishments and foreign air had, it appeared, excited the spleen of the
young gentlemen of the county belonging to the Tory party, then in the ascendant, above all
of the prisoner.  There was then little or no etiquette as to irrelevant matter, so that Mr.
Cowper could dwell at length on Sedley's antecedents, as abusing the bounty of his uncle, a
known bully expelled for misconduct from Winchester College, then acting as a suitable instrument
in those violences in Scotland which had driven the nation finally to extremity, noted for
his debaucheries when in garrison, and finally broken for insubordination in Ireland.

After this unflattering portrait, which Sedley's looks certainly did not belie, the counsel
went back to 1688, proceeded to mention several disputes which had taken place when Peregrine
had met Lieutenant Archfield at Portsmouth; but, he added with a smile, that no dart of malice
was ever thoroughly winged till Cupid had added his feather; and he went on to describe in
strong colours the insult to a young gentlewoman, and the interference of the other young man
in her behalf, so that swords were drawn before the appearance of the reverend gentleman her
uncle. I wuz satisfy. The white folks the treated me all right.

My young missus loved me and I loved her. She to say,' Johnnie, Susie, and tole us Young they wouldn'
t to us. I think Abraham Lincoln is of all right, I git old Dave, the
horse she wuz a ridin Ho Dave', den I wud kick de horse in de side
and she wud keep walkin' on.

She asked me' Joe, why does Dave not want to stop? I saw a lot of Yankees, I wuz afraid of' em. They
called us whupped me sometimes. I think just for fun sometimes,
when I wuz ridin' behind her, she would tell me to put arms around
her and hold to her apron strings.

One day she
wuz sittin' on the side saddle; I wuz sittin' behind her.

She wud try to walk; she would guess, the way he it.
  He was observed to have an amount
of money unusual with him soon after, and, what was still more suspicious, after having gambled
this away, he had sold to a goldsmith at Southampton a ruby ring, which both Mr. and Mrs. Oakshott
could swear to have belonged to the deceased. In fact, when Mr. Cowper marshalled the facts,
and even described the passionate encounter taking place hastily and without witnesses, and
the subsequent concealment of guilt in the vault, the purse taken, and whatever could again
be identified hidden, while providentially the blocking up of the vault preserved the evidence
of the crime so long undetected and unavenged, it was hardly possible to believe the prisoner
innocent.

When the examination of the witnesses began, however, Sedley showed himself equal to his own
defence.  He made no sign when Robert Oakshott identified the clothes, sword, and other things,
and their condition was described; but he demanded of him sharply how he knew the human remains
to be those of his brother.

"Of course they were," said Robert.

"Were there any remains of clothes with them?"

"No."

"Can you swear to them?  Did you ever before see your brother's bones?"

At which, and at the witness's hesitating, "No, but--" the court began to laugh.

"What was the height of the deceased?"

"He reached about up to my ear," said the witness with some hesitation.

"What was the length of the skeleton?"

"Quite small.  It looked like a child's."

"My lord," said Sedley, "I have a witness here, a surgeon, whom I request may be called to
certify the proportion of a skeleton to the size of a living man."

Though this was done, the whole matter of size was so vague that there was nothing proved,
either as to the inches of Peregrine or those of the skeleton, but still Sedley made his point
that the identity of the body was unproved at least in some minds.  Still, there remained the
other articles, about which there was no doubt.

Mr. Cowper proceeded with his examination as to the disputes at Portsmouth, but again the prisoner
scored a point by proving that Peregrine had staked the ring against him at a cock-fight at
Southampton, and had lost it.

Dr. Woodford was called, and his evidence could not choose but to be most damaging as to the
conflict on the road at Portsmouth; but as he had not seen the beginning, 'Mistress Anne Jacobina
Woodford' was called for.

There she stood, tall and stately, almost majestic in the stiffness of intense self-restraint,
in her simple gray dress, her black silk hood somewhat back, her brown curls round her face,
a red spot in each cheek, her earnest brown eyes fixed on the clerk as he gabbled out the words
so awful to her, "The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth;" and her soul re-echoed
the words, "So help you God."

Mr. Cowper was courteous; he was a gentleman, and he saw she was no light-minded girl.  He
asked her the few questions needful as to the attack made on her, and the defence; but something
moved him to go on and ask whether she had been on Portsdown Hill, and to obtain from her the
account of the high words between the young men.  She answered each question in a clear low
voice, which still was audible to all.  Was it over, or would Sedley begin to torture her,
when so much was in his favour?  No!  Mr. Cowper--oh! why would he? was asking in an affirmative
tone, as if to clench the former evidence, "And did you ever see the deceased again?"

"Yes."  The answer was at first almost choked, then cleared into sharpness, and every eye turned
in surprise on the face that had become as white as her collar.

"Indeed!  And when?"

