At the conclusion of the evidence introduced in behalf of the State there is always a motion
made to dismiss the case on the ground of alleged insufficiency in the proof. This has usually
been made the subject of the most exhaustive study by the lawyers for the defence, and requires
equal preparation on the part of the prosecutor. The writer recalls trying a bankrupt, charged
with fraud, where the lawyer for the defendant had written a brief of some three hundred pages
upon the points of law which he proposed to argue to the court upon his motion to acquit. But,
unfortunately, his client pleaded guilty and the volume was never brought into play.

But a mastery of the law, a thorough knowledge and control of the evidence, a careful preparation
for the opening and closing addresses, and an intimate acquaintance with the panel from which
the jury is to be drawn are by no means the only elements in the preparation for a great legal
battle. One thing still remains, quite as important as the rest--the selection of the best
time and the best court for the trial. "A good beginning" in a criminal case means a beginning
before the right judge, the proper jury, and at a time when that vague but important influence
known as public opinion augurs success. A clever criminal lawyer, be he prosecutor or lawyer
for the defendant, knows that all the preparation in the world is of no account provided his
case is to come before a stupid or biased judge, or a prejudiced or obstinate jury. Therefore,
each side, in a legal battle of importance, studies, as well as it can, the character, connections,
and cast of mind of the different judges who may be called upon to hear the case, and, like
a jockey at the flag, tries to hurry or delay, as the case may be, until the judicial auspices
appear most favorable. A lawyer who has a weak defence seeks to bring the case before a weak
judge, or, if public clamor is loud against his client, makes use of every technical artifice
to secure delay, by claiming that there are flaws in the indictment, or by moving for commissions
to take testimony in distant points of the country. The opportunities for legal procrastination
are so numerous that in a complicated case the defence may often delay matters for over a year.
This may be an important factor in the final result. 

[5] It is referred to in a letter from Ward Chipman to Chief Justice Blowers to be mentioned later.
See post, p.

[6] This Act was continued in 1784 by (1784) 24 George
III, c. 14 (N. S.).

Statutes at Large, Nova Scotia, p. 238.

[7] "Halifax currency" was at this time nine-tenths of Sterling £10
currency = £9 sterling and the 5/ dollar being 4/6 sterling.

Sir Guy Carleton claimed that the Negroes who had taken refuge in the British lines at once lost their status of slavery
and became free.

They were "not Negroes or other property of the American," a rather technical
not to say finely drawn distinction but in favorem libertatis; and
in any event Britain would not betray the helpless who had put their
faith in her.

[9] Washington
did make a claim; but the United States had not carried out its part
of the contract and Britain would not and never did pay. Jones' Loyalist
History of New York, Vol.

2. p. 256, says that the number of Negroes who found shelter in the British lines was 2000 at least;
probably this is an underestimate. Hay's Historical Reading at p.
249 gives the number of Negroes who came into Nova Scotia with their
Masters at least 3000--and of free Negroes 1522 at Shelburne, 182
at St. John River.

270 at Guysborough, 211 in Annapolis County, and a smaller number at other
places. 1200 were sent to Sierre Leone in 1792.

[10] See ante, p. --.

The Negro population in 1784 estimated at about 3000 was included in the 28,347 of Disbanded Troops and Loyalists
called New Inhabitants, Can.

Arch., Report for 1885, p. 10. There were some free Negroes in various
companies of the British forces in one capacity or another.

[11] The Negroes sent were Abraham, James, Lymas, Cyrus, John, Isaac,
Quako, January, Priscella, Rachel, Venus, Daphne, Ann, Dorothy and
four children Celia, William, Venus, Eleanora--reserving Matthew and
Susannah at home.

All these had been christened, February 11, 1784. "Isaac is a thorough good carpenter and master sawyer, perfectly
capable of overseeing and conducting the rest and strictly honest;
Lymas is a rough carpenter and sawyer; Quako is a field negro has
met with an accident in his arm which will require some indulgence.

The other men are sawyers and John also a good axeman.

Abraham has been used to cattle and to attend in the house, &c. All the men
are expert in boats.

The women are stout and able and promise well to increase their numbers.
Venus is useful in the hospital, poultry yard, gardens, etc. Upon
the whole they are a most useful lot of Negroes."

John Wentworth, last Royalist Governor of New Hampshire and afterwards
Sir John Wentworth, Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, doubtless
believed himself to be a good man and a good Christian.

The story of Eve and Suke infra is told by Archdeacon Raymond, 3 N.
B. Mag., 1899, p. 221.

     
     
     

[12] He went to England in 1796 (it was said, for a visit) resigned his
position in Nova Scotia, was Knighted and appointed Recorder of Fort St. George, Bombay, India.

[13]
A collateral ancestor of my own, the Reverend Archibald Riddell, had
the advantage of a similar proceeding a century before.

Being apprehended for taking part in the uprising of the Covenanters
in Scotland he was given (or sold) with others to a Scottish Laird who
chartered a vessel and proceeded to take his human chattels to America
for sale.

                The plague broke out on the ship,
     the Laird and his wife died of it as did some of the crew. When the
               ship reached New Jersey, there being no master, the "slaves" escaped
up country.

     
     The Laird's son-in-law and personal representative came to America and claimed
     Riddell and others. The governor called a jury to determine whether
     they were slaves and the jury promptly found in their favor.

Riddell
     preached in New Jersey until the Revolution of 1688 made it safe
     for him to return to Scotland.
     
     Juries in such cases are liable to
     
     what Blackstone calls "pious perjury." All this practice was based upon
the common law proceedings when a claim was made of villenage. When a person claimed
to be the lord of a villein who had run away and remained outside the
manor unto which he was regardant, he sued out a writ of neif, that
is, de nativo habendo. The sheriff took the writ and if the nativus
admitted that he was villein to the lord who claimed him, he was
delivered by the sheriff to the lord of the manor; but if he claimed
to be free, the sheriff should not seize him but the Lord was compelled
to take out a Pone to have the matter tried before the Court of Common
Pleas or the Justices in Eyre, that is, the assizes.

Or the alleged villein might himself sue out a writ of libertate
probanda: and until trial of the case the lord could not seize the
alleged villein.

The curious will find the whole subject dealt with in Fitzherbert's Natura
Brevium, pp. 77 sqq.

[14] This is very much like the Chloe Cooley case in Upper Canada.

I do not know what form the prosecution could possibly take if the
Negro was in fact a slave.

See Chapter V, note 5 ante.

[15] It is said that August 1797 was the date of the last public slave
sale at Montreal, that of Emmanuel Allen for £36.

The last advertisement for sale by auction of a slave in the Maritime Provinces
seems to be that in The Royal Gazette and Nova Scotia Advertiser
of September 7, 1790, where William Millet of Halifax offers for sale
by auction September 9 "A stout likely negro man and sundry other
articles."

In 1802 the census showed that there were 451 Blacks in Halifax; in
1791 there were 422.

Dr. T. Watson Smith says in a paper "Slavery in Canada" republished
in "Canadian History," No. 12, December, 1900, at p. 321.

"About 1806, so Judge Marshall has stated, a master and his slave
were taken before Chief Justice Blowers on a writ of habeas corpus.

When the case and the question of slavery in general had been pretty well
argued on each side, the Chief Justice decided that slavery had no
legal place in Nova Scotia."

I have not been able to trace such a decision and cannot think that it has
been correctly reported. Dr. Smith is wholly justified in his statement "there
is good ground for the opinion that this baneful system was never
actually abolished in the present Canadian Provinces until the vote
of the British Parliament and the signature of King William IV in
1833 rendered it illegal throughout the British Empire."

[16] J. Allen Jack, Q. C., D. C., L., of St. John, New Brunswick,
gives a full account of this case from which (and similar sources)
most of the facts are taken.

In a paper read before the Royal Society of Canada May 26, 1898,
Trans.

R.
S. Can., 1898, pp. 137 sqq., Dr. Jack conjectures that Nancy Morton
is the Negro female slave conveyed by bill of sale registered in the
office of the Register of Deeds, St. John's, N. B. Slaves were treated
as realty as regards fieri facias under the Act of 1732 (see ante,
p. --) and at least "savoured of the realty."

The bill
of sale registered January 31, 1791, was dated November 13, 1778,
and was executed by John Johnson of the Township of Brooklyn in King's
County, Long Island, Province of New York.

It conveyed with a covenant to warrant and defend title to Samuel Duffy,
Innkeeper for £40 currency (say $100) "a certain negro female about
fourteen years of age and goes by the name of Nancy," pp. 141, 142.

However that may be, Stair Agnew bought Nancy from William Bailey of
the County of York in the Province of New Brunswick for £40 with full warranty
of title as a slave.

[17] He was born in Boston in 1753, the son of John Chipman, a member
of the Bar.

Graduating at Harvard, he joined the Boston Bar and practised in that City
until 1776.

After the Peace he went to England
and in 1784 sailed for New Brunswick of which he was appointed Solicitor
General.

After a quarter of a century of successful practice he was appointed
1808 a puisne judge of the Supreme Court.

He died in February, 1826.

His services to Nancy Morton were given without fee or hope of reward.

[18] That of Mr. Chipman is given in Trans.

R. Soc. Can., 1898, pp. 155-184.

[19] It will be seen that the return sets up that Jones bought and owned
the slave and the case was argued on that hypothesis, but the historians
say that Captain Stair Agnew was the owner.

The point is not of importance.

     [20] Mos regit legem, Mos pro lege, Leges moribus servient, Consuetudo
                                         est optimus
     
     interpres
     
     
     
     legum,
     
     custom is the life of the law, custom becomes law, &c., &c. That slavery
     was necessary and therefore legal in the
     
     American Colonies was admitted in the Somerset case.

[21] The modern lawyer, in my opinion, would find no difficulty in coming
to the same conclusion as the Chief Justice.

Mr. Chipman in his interesting correspondence with Chief Justice Blowers
(Trans. R. Soc.

Can., 1898, pp. 148 sqq.) admits that if his opponents had hit upon the
Nova Scotia Statute of 1762 as revised in 1783 "the conclusiveness
of their reasoning on their principles would have been considered
as demonstrated."

He adds: "In searching your laws upon this occasion I found this clause
but carefully avoided mentioning it," which raises a curious question
in legal ethics.

[22] The reconveyance to Bailey, a quit claim deed, is witnessed by
George Leonard and Thomas Wetmore and is dated February 22, 1800.

The indenture by which Nancy bound herself for fifteen years is dated
February 23, 1800.

If Dr. Jack is right in his conjecture the argument took place when
she was 36 and she would receive her freedom when she was 51.

Agnew challenged Judge Allen for some reflection upon him by the Judge; the challenge was declined and
Agnew then challenged Street who accepted--and they fought a bloodless
duel.

Street later in 1821 fought a duel with George Ludlow Wetmore over words which
passed on leaving the Court. Wetmore was struck in the head and died in a
few hours. Street was tried and aquitted. One result of this case
was that Mr. Justice Upham freed his slaves.

His wife had six inherited from her father and he himself had some,
one a girl born in the East Indies whom he had bought from her master
in New York, the master of a ship, afterwards married a soldier in
Colonel Allen's regiment.

[23] What is believed to be the last advertisement for the sale of
a slave in any maritime province is in the New Brunswick Royal Gazette
of October 16, 1809 when Daniel Brown offered for sale Nancy a Negro
woman, guaranteeing a good title.

The latest offer of a reward for the apprehension of a runaway slave
is said to be in the same paper for July 10, 1816.

[24] For this act the perpetrator was excluded by his masonic lodge; being brought to trial before the Supreme
Court in August 1792 he was "honourably acquitted" and afterwards
he was reinstated by his lodge.

[25] Seldom mentioned and never much boasted of in the United States.

[26] The word Camouflage may be new. The practice antedated humanity.

[27]
There is a record of 371 arriving at St. John from Halifax on May
25, 1815, by the Romulus, who had taken refuge on board the British
Men of War in the Chesapeake.

The Negro settlement at Loch Lomond was founded by them.

At the Census of 1824, 1421 "persons of color" were found in New Brunswick.

The Very Rev. Archdeacon Raymond, an excellent authority, thinks most
of these "were at one time slaves or the children of slaves," but
many were not slaves in New Brunswick.

Those that were brought by Admiral Cochrane to Halifax became a great
burden to the community.

It was proposed in 1815 by the British Government to remove them to
a warmer climate, but this scheme does not seem to have been carried out.
By a census taken in 1816 there was found to be 684 in Halifax and
elsewhere in Nova Scotia.

In the winter of 1814-15 they had suffered rather severely from small pox and were vaccinated to prevent
its spread. Some were placed on Melville Island.

[28] Presumably because he had the greatest number of serfs in the
world and was, therefore, the best judge of slaves.

[29] Of course, Britain refused to give up a single fugitive. She could
not betray a trust even of the humblest.

She knew that in "the land of the free and the home of the brave" for the
Negro returned to his master, to be brave was to incur torture and death
and death alone could make him free.

[30] The Act (1833) 3, 4 William III, c. 73 (Imp.), passed the House
of Commons August 7 and received the Royal Assent August 28, 1833;
and there were no slaves in all the British world after August, 1838.

CHAPTER VIII

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS

The curse of Negro slavery affected the whole
English speaking world; and that part of the world where it was commercially
profitable resisted its abolition.

The British part of this world does not need to assert any higher sense
of justice and right than had those who lived in the Northern States;
and it may well be that had Negro slave service been as profitable
in Canada as in the Cotton States, the heinousness of the sin might
not have been more manifest here than there.

Nevertheless we must not too much minimize the real merit of those who sought the destruction of
slavery. Slaves did not pay so well in Canada as in Georgia, but they paid.

It
is interesting to note the various ways in which slavery was met
and finally destroyed.

In Upper Canada, the existing slaves, 1793, remained slaves but all those born thereafter were free, subject to certain
conditions of service. There was a statutory recognition of the existing
status and provision for its destruction in the afterborn.

This continued slavery though it much mitigated its severity and secured its downfall in time.
But there were slaves in Upper Canada when the Imperial Act of 1833 came in force. The Act of 1793
was admittedly but a compromise measure; and beneficial as it was it was a paltering with sin.

In Lower Canada, there was no legislation, and slavery was never formally
abolished until the Imperial Act of 1833; but the courts decided
in effect if not in form that a master had no rights over his slave,
and that is tantamount to saying that where there is no master there
is no slave.

The reasoning in these cases as in the Somerset case may not recommend
itself to the lawyer but the effect is undoubtedly, "Slaves cannot
live in Lower Canada."

In Nova Scotia, there was no decision that slavery did not exist.

Indeed the course of procedure presupposed that it did exist, but the
courts were astute to find means of making it all but impossible for the alleged
master to succeed; and slavery disappeared accordingly.

In New Brunswick the decision by a divided court was in favor of the master;
but juries were of the same calibre and sentiments in New Brunswick as in Nova Scotia
and the same results were to be anticipated, if Nova Scotian means
were used; and the slave owners gave way.

In the old land, judicial decision destroyed slavery on the British
domain; but conscience and sense of justice and right impelled its
destruction elsewhere by statute; and the same sense of justice and
right impelled the Parliament of Great Britain to recompense the owners
for their property thus destroyed.

If there be any more altruistic act of any people in any age of the world's history I have failed to
hear or read of it.

In the United States, slavery was abolished as a war measure.

Lincoln hating slavery as he did would never have abolished it, had
he not considered it a useful war measure.

No compensation was paid, of course.[1] Everywhere slavery was doomed and
in one way or another it has met a deserved fate.

WILLIAM RENWICK RIDDELL

JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT OF ONTARIO, OSGOOD HALL, TORONTO, February
5, 1920

FOOTNOTES:

[1] I had with the late Hon. Warwick Hough of St. Louis, Missouri, who
had been an officer in the Southern Army, several conversations on
the subject of slavery.

He gave it as his firm conviction that, had the
South succeeded in the Civil War, it would shortly have itself abolished
slavery and sought readmission to the Union.

His proposition was that the power and influence of the planter class
was waning, while the manufacturers, merchants and the like were increasing
in number and influence and they would have for their own protection
abolished slavery.

I have
not met a Northerner or a Canadian who agreed with this view; but a
few Southerners have expressed to me their general concurrence with my
friend's proposition.

BOOK REVIEWS

Africa and the Discovery of America. Volume I. By LEO WIENER, Professor
of Slavic Languages and Literatures at Harvard University. Innes &
Sons, Philadelphia, Pa., 1920. Pp. i-xix, 1-290.

The present volume is the first of a series in which Professor
Wiener will show that Arabicised Negroes, chiefly Mandingoes, brought
to America as slaves, profoundly influenced the culture of the Indians,
and were an important, if not always direct factor in establishing
the modus vivendi between the Indians and the Europeans, which made
practicable the colonization of the New World.

The book is packed with valuable data, newly discovered, and brought
together for the first time. It should be read slowly, and read through
at least twice before judgment is passed on it.

With
the first reading comes a shock. One learns that the Journal of the First
Voyage, and the First Letter of Columbus are literary frauds, though
containing material which came from Columbus's own pen, and that tobacco,
manioc, yams, sweet potatoes and peanuts are not gifts of the Indian
to the European.

Yet with a more intimate study
of the subject matter, the conviction increases that the author has built
upon the bed-rock of fact, and that his position is unassailable.

It
is impossible, within the limits of a review, to do more than to emphasise
the most important of his discoveries. In his studies of the First
Letter, and of the Journals giving account of the first and the second
voyages of Columbus, Professor Wiener seeks to determine how much testimony
they give pertaining to Indian names and things, after the elimination
of all that is not Indian. The non-Indian elements are of two sorts;
the names of the Islands, and the words for "gold," etc. Columbus,
dominated by the fixed idea, that, sailing westward, he would find
a short cut to India, China and Japan, began with the first sight
of land, to be engrossed with the task of identifying each newly discovered
country with some island or district of the Far East, named on his
maps.

He was an ignorant man, though he knew
Ptolemy and Marco Polo by heart, credulous, uncritical, not consciously
dishonest, but unready to correct false impressions caused by his
ignorance and gullibility. His notes, as may be seen from a reproduction
of a page of his manuscripts (facing p. 38), were in an execrable
hand. The forger of the Journal of the First Voyage was no puzzle
expert, and made mistakes in deciphering scrawls.

Thus, for example,
the note Giaua min., i.e., Java minor, was read Guanahin, the same
destined to masquerade as Guanahani, the Indian name of the first
island sighted on October 12, 1492.

Perhaps the best specimen of such ghost-words in the Journal is the name
Carib. This is nothing but Marco Polo's Cambalu, the capital of the Grand
Khan, successively misread as Canibal, Caniba, Cariba. So also, "canoe"
is a ghost-word, traced to a misreading of scaphas as canoas in the manuscript,
or the Gothic text of the Latin version of the First Letter. It is interesting
to learn that maize, in the forms masa, maza, ultimately from Portuguese
mararoca, is the African name for Guinea corn. The transference of the
name from Guinea corn to Indian corn, "rests on a misunderstanding
of a passage in Peter Martyr's First Decade" (p. 123).

The question arises
whether or not there had been a colony of Europeans, with African slaves in
America, before the arrival of Columbus.

Fray Ramon Pane, Oviedo, and Las Casas give conico as the Indian word
for "farm, plantation." This is clearly the Mandingo kunke "farm."
The Indian word for "golo," according to the Journal entry for January
13, 1493, is caona. It is found also in the name of Cacique Caonabo, called
in the Journal of the Second Voyage "master of mines,"--the name being
explained in the Libretto as "lord of the house of gold." Now the
words for "gold" in the Negro languages are mostly derived from Arabic
din[=a]r, which, through Hausa zinaria, and Pul kanyera, reaches Vei as
kani. Evidently canoa, written also guani, is nothing but this Vei
word. In "Cacique Caonabo," we have three Mande words in juxtaposition.
Cacique is not far removed from kuntigi, Soso kundzi, "chief,"--caona,
that is kani, is "gold," and boi, from Arabic beii, bai, is "house." Would drink and women account for seventy-five
per cent? Mentally I ran my eye back over nearly ten years. What OTHER motives had the defendants
at the bar had? There was Laudiero--an Italian "Camorrista"--he had killed simply for the distinction
it gave him among his countrymen and the satisfaction he felt at being known as a "bad" man--a
"capo maestra." There was Joseph Ferrone--pure jealousy again. "Once, a long time ago, in a similar case," resumed Desroches, "a
too honest debtor took fright at the idea of a solemn declaration
in a court of law, and declined to pay Maxime after notice was given.

That time we made it hot for the creditor by piling on writs of attachment,
so as to absorb the whole amount in costs--"

"Oh, what is that?" cried Malaga; "it all sounds
like gibberish to me. As you thought the sturgeon so excellent at
dinner, let me take out the value of the sauce in lessons in chicanery."

"Very
well," said Desroches. "Suppose that a man owes you money, and your
creditors serve a writ of attachment upon him; there is nothing to
prevent all your other creditors from doing the same thing. Still, in cases merely of suspected murder, or in cases where no evidence is
taken, it would be manifestly unfair arbitrarily to assign motives for the deed, if deed it
was. No, one must start with the assumption, sufficiently accurate under all the circumstances,
that the killings in which the killer is caught are fairly representative of killings as a whole. 

That laboured address to the jury must have employed his thoughts for years. I should like very much
to know whether anyone has ever attempted to verify the references which he gives to the cases
in which he says that bones have been found. The style of the speech has
been much praised, but is surely not very surprising when it is considered
that Johnson had previously written the Rambler.

The composition wants ease.

2.

Ever since I began to read about Eugene Aram, and that is some years ago, I have had a settled opinion
that his attainments, and perhaps his abilities, had been greatly overrated.
He was doubtless a man of considerable mental powers; but we cannot
but suspect that had he acquired all the learning which is attributed
to him, he would have attracted more notice than it was his fortune
to obtain.

3.

Mr. Scatchard's attempts, and all other attempts, to clear him from "blood-guilty stain," must be equally
futile, for he himself confessed his guilt while he was in prison.

Some time ago, a dozen years or more, there appeared in the Literary Gazette,
as a communication from a correspondent, an anecdote concerning
Aram, which well deserves to be repeated. During the time that he
was in the school of Lynn, it was the custom for the head-master,
at the termination of every half-year, to invite the parents of the
boys to an entertainment, and all {361} who accepted the invitation
were expected to bring with them the money due on account of their
sons, which, postquam exempta fames epulis, they paid into the head-master's
hands.

The master would thus retire to rest with a considerable sum in his possession. On one of these
occasions, after he had gone to his chamber and supposed that all the family were in bed, he heard
a noise in a passage not far distant, and, going out to see what
was the cause of it, found Aram groping about in the dark, who, on being
asked what he wanted, said that he had been obliged to leave his
room on a necessary occasion, and had missed his way to the place
which he sought.

The passage was not one into which he was likely to wander by mistake, but the master accepted his excuse,
and thought no more of the matter till Aram was arrested for the
robbery and murder of Clarke, when he immediately recollected the
circumstance, and suspected that he had intended on that night to
commit another robbery or murder.

I have not the number of the Literary Gazette in which this statement was given to refer to,
but I am sure that I have repeated the substance of it correctly, and remember that it was
inserted as being worthy of credit. It is another illustration of the fact that the nature of a man
is unchangeable.

Bulwer's novel, which elevates Aram from a school-assistant into a private
gentleman, may have pleased those, if there were such, who knew nothing
of Arum's acts before they began to read it.

But all who knew what Aram was, must be disgusted at the threshold.

I regarded the book, at the time of its appearance, as one of the
most presumptuous falsifications of biography that had ever been
attempted.

It is not easy to see why Bulwer might not have made an equally interesting
story, if he had kept Aram in his proper station.

J. S. W.

Stockwell.

* * * * *

ON THE WORD "GRADELY."

Permit me to make a few remarks on the word gradely:--

1. It seems
to have no connexion with the Latin noun gradus, Angl. grade, step.

2.
Its first syllable, grade, is both a substantive and an adjective;
and gradely itself both adjective and adverb, as weakly, sickly, godly,
&c. Besides these murders, five homicides had been committed in the course of perpetrating
other crimes, including burglary and robbery.

