Nearly two years had passed by since Lilias had broken off her engagement with Ned Talbot,
and Gervase Vanburgh had told Nan of his love, and a stranger passing along the village highroad
one bright May day might have discerned an air of unusual excitement and bustle in Thurston
House.  The housemaids were hanging clean curtains in every window from attic to cellar; the
gardener was bedding out plants; message boys besieged the house with trays of provisions,
and the Parcel Delivery van seemed to empty its entire contents at the door.  Nor did the bustle
grow less as one entered the house, for the hall was banked up with plants, and seven girls
enveloped in aprons seemed to be chasing one another up and down stairs, so rapid and unceasing
were their movements. It is peculiar province, for example, by a court of equity to relieve against what
are called hard bargains: these are contracts that, although there may have been no direct fraud
or deceit, sufficient to invalidate a court of law, yet there may have been some undue and unconscionable
advantage taken of the necessities or misfortunes of a party, a court of equity would not tolerate.
In such cases, where foreigners were concerned on either side, it would be impossible for federal
judicatories do justice without an equitable and jurisdiction. Agreements to convey lands claimed
under grants of different states, may provide another example of the need for equitable jurisdiction in
federal courts. This reasoning can not be so palpable in those states where formal and technical distinction
between law and equity is not maintained, as in this state, where it is exemplified in daily practice.

Judicial
authority of the Union is to expand:

Second.

To make treaties, or to be carried out under the authority of the United States and to all cases affecting
ambassadors, ministers and other public authorities and consuls.

They belong to the class of fourth cases listed, because they have
a clear link with the national peace.

Thirdly. For cases of Admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. They form together
the fifth class listed in appropriate cases the courts attention.

Fourth.

To controversies to which the United States must be a party. This is
the third of these classes.

Fifth. To controversies between two or more states,
between a state and citizens of another State, between citizens of
different states. They are the fourth of these classes and take part
in some extent, the nature of the past.

Sixth. To cases between citizens of the same State, claiming lands under
grants of different states.

Nan rose obediently, and carried her writing materials upstairs; but it was some time before
she sat down at her desk, for the dressing-room door stood open, and therein lay something
which exercised an irresistible attraction, something which lay stretched on a sofa, swathed
in careful wrappings.

Nan drew back the sheet with reverent fingers, and there it lay in all its beauty--a gleaming
satin dress, the train folded skilfully in and out, bunches of orange-blossom catching up the
lace, which was festooned with as much lavishness as if it had been modest Nottingham, instead
of precious Brussels, of that rich mellow tint which comes from age alone. A bride's dress,
and a bride's dress fit for a princess, and in the box beside it a veil of the same old lace,
and in the safe in the corner a diamond necklace and stars which represented a fortune in themselves!

Could it be, could it really be that all this splendour was for her? And oh! lucky girl, that
she was so happy in love given and received, that they counted as nothing, and less than nothing,
in her rejoicings! Could it be that to-morrow morning--in twenty-four hours from now--in less
than twenty-four hours, she would be transformed from Nan Rendell of the coat and skirt--Nan,
the third daughter in a large family, in constant straits for money and anticipation of her
dress allowance--into Nan Vanburgh in satin and diamonds, Mrs Gervase Vanburgh, with her country
seat, her diamonds, her carriages, her expectations of even greater wealth to come!  Oh, wonder
of wonders!  Oh, fairy tale in real life!  Oh, dear and beautiful prince, to work such marvels
in a poor girl's life!  Nan bent down lower and lower until her lips touched the gleaming folds
and her cheek rested lovingly against them, then she drew the sheet forward once more, and
went back to her seat.  To think, not to write, however--to think over the two years that had
just passed, and all the events which they had brought.  Had she really loved Gervase from
the beginning, even as he had loved her?  It seemed as if she had, for after that memorable
interview in the garden she had known no doubt nor hesitation.  It was right to wait and let
time prove the stability of her feelings, but at the bottom of her heart she had felt no uncertainty
as to her final answer; and oh, how long had seemed the last three months of the year, with
what joy she had hailed July--what a happy; happy time it had been for all concerned!  Mrs
Rendell and Maud had been the only members of the family who had known of the intention which
lay behind Gervase's frequent visits; and if the surprise with which the engagement was greeted
was mingled with some envy and disappointment from one of the five sisters, the others more
than made up for it by their unaffected delight.

Gervase had long received the sanction of approval; and once assured of Nan's happiness, it
was impossible for the most unworldly of relatives to restrain a thrill of satisfaction in
the grandeur of the alliance. The schoolroom party was inflated with pride at the thought of
"My sister Mrs Vanburgh," and even Maud tilted her head and smiled with a complacent air when
congratulated on the engagement.  As for the parents, they were naturally delighted at the
prospect of so prosperous a marriage for their dear girl, while old Mr Vanburgh shed tears
of happiness over the fulfilment of a cherished dream.

"She will be the making of the boy!" he declared.  "He has always been a good fellow, but too
indifferent and lazy to make the most of his abilities.  Nan's energy, Nan's enthusiasm will
be his salvation!  This is the best news I have heard for many a long, long year.  It puts
fresh life into me in my old age."

Everybody seemed pleased and approving; and not the least welcome among the many letters of
congratulation was one from Ned Talbot, now some months settled as steward of the Vanburgh
property, and his earnest, outspoken appreciation of his new employer.

When the subject of the marriage itself was broached, however, Mr Rendell obstinately refused
to hear of any date within a year.

"When she is twenty-one--not a moment before," he said firmly.  "I have a parent's right to
my Mops until she is of age, and not one day of the time will I give up for you or any man living."

"And I've a husband's right to her after that, and not one day longer will I wait, so we'll
fix on her birthday, the twentieth of May!" said Gervase, equally obstinate; and so it was
settled.  And the months had seemed as weeks, so rapidly had they flown past, until here was
the day before the wedding, with Nan's new boxes standing in the corner ready packed for that
wonderful journey to foreign lands of which she had dreamed all her life long. 

No man can be a judge beyond sixty. I believe there are few at present who do not disapprove
of this provision. There is no station, in relation to which it is less proper than to that
of a judge. The deliberating and comparing faculties generally preserve their strength much
beyond that period in men who survive it; and when, in addition to this circumstance, we consider
how few there are who outlive the season of intellectual vigor, and how improbable it is that
any considerable portion of the bench, whether more or less numerous, should be in such a situation
at the same time, we shall be ready to conclude that limitations of this sort have little to recommend
them. In a republic, where fortunes are not affluent, and pensions not expedient, the dismission
of men from stations in which they have served their country long
and usefully, on which they depend for subsistence, and from which
it will be too late to resort to any other occupation for a livelihood,
ought to have some better apology to humanity than is to be found
in the imaginary danger of a superannuated bench.

PUBLIUS

1. Vide Constitution of Massachusetts, Chapter 2, Section 1, Article
13.

It seems scarcely to admit of controversy, that the judiciary authority
of the Union ought to extend to these several descriptions of cases:
1st, to all those which arise out of the laws of the United States,
passed in pursuance of their just and constitutional powers of legislation;
2d, to all those which concern the execution of the provisions expressly
contained in the articles of Union; 3d, to all those in which the United
States are a party; 4th, to all those which involve the PEACE of
the CONFEDERACY, whether they relate to the intercourse between the
United States and foreign nations, or to that between the States themselves;
5th, to all those which originate on the high seas, and are of admiralty
or maritime jurisdiction; and, lastly, to all those in which the State
tribunals cannot be supposed to be impartial and unbiased.

The first point depends upon this obvious consideration, that there ought
always to be a constitutional method of giving efficacy to constitutional
provisions.

What, for instance, would avail restrictions on the authority of the State legislatures, without
some constitutional mode of enforcing the observance of them? The States, by the plan of
the convention, are prohibited from doing a variety of things, some
of which are incompatible with the interests of the Union, and others
with the principles of good government.

The imposition of duties on imported articles, and the emission of
paper money, are specimens of each kind.

No man of sense will believe, that such prohibitions would be scrupulously regarded, without some effectual
power in the government to restrain or correct the infractions of them. This power must either
be a direct negative on the State laws, or an authority in the federal courts to overrule such
as might be in manifest contravention of the articles of Union. There is no third course that
I can imagine. The latter appears to have been thought by the convention preferable to the former,
and, I presume, will be most agreeable to the States.

As to the second point, it is impossible, by any argument or comment, to make it clearer than it is
in itself.

If there are such things as political axioms, the propriety of the judicial power of a government
being coextensive with its legislative, may be ranked among the number. The mere necessity of
uniformity in the interpretation of the national laws, decides the question.
Thirteen independent courts of final jurisdiction over the same causes,
arising upon the same laws, is a hydra in government, from which nothing
but contradiction and confusion can proceed.

Still less need be said in regard to the third point.

Controversies between the nation and its members or citizens, can only be properly referred
to the national tribunals. Any other plan would be contrary to reason, to precedent, and to decorum.

The
fourth point rests on this plain proposition, that the peace of the WHOLE ought not to be left at
the disposal of a PART. The Union will undoubtedly be answerable to foreign powers for the
conduct of its members. And the responsibility for an injury ought ever to be accompanied with
the faculty of preventing it. As the denial or perversion of justice by the sentences of courts, as well
as in any other manner, is with reason classed among the just causes of war, it will follow that
the federal judiciary ought to have cognizance of all causes in which
the citizens of other countries are concerned. This is not less essential
to the preservation of the public faith, than to the security of the
public tranquillity.the citizens of other countries are concerned. This is not less essential
to the preservation of the public faith, than to the security of the
public tranquillity.  Maud knew, and had known for many a
long day, to whom Ned's heart was given; and Ned knew that she knew, and gathered fresh hope
from her sweet, shy smile.  For himself, he was looking a new man, and Lilias felt a stab of
pain as she looked at him and met his calm, scrutinising glance.  She had loved him once, or
had come as near loving him as it was in her nature to do, and she was surprised to find how
much it hurt to realise his disenchantment.  She was as pretty as ever,--prettier, so her mirror
told her,--but though admiration was hers in plenty, no one seemed to love her, or to turn
to her for sympathy and counsel. There are much difference between the cases arising under the Constitution and
also the cases arising under the laws of the United States. The restrictions put on the authority
of the State legislature gives examples to understand it better. For example, they are not to give
paper money. This is according to the Constitution and has no connection at all to any of the
law of the United States. However, if paper money is emited, then the controversies regarding it will come
under the case of the Constitution and not the laws of the United States. Also, the word "equity" has brought
about many questions.


When tea was over, Gervase went back to the Grange to sit with his uncle, while Nan adjourned
upstairs to superintend that last trying-on of bridesmaids' dresses which the younger girls
declared to be imperative.

"My dear, you don't know what may be wrong!  I slipped on my bodice last night, and it was
two inches too tight. This came into existence likely from the deviance in the time-period of the particular
billet. As the premier is to be nominated for not more than a period of four years, it can infrequently
happen that an ample wage, fixed at the embarkation of that period, will
not endure to be such to its end.

Mrs Rendell wished to interview the cook, Jim had a letter to write-- every one, it appeared,
had some important and pressing matter demanding attention, save only Maud and Ned, who were
left to their own devices, and presently wandered off towards that portion of the garden most
sheltered from observation. Since the principles regulating the constitution have already been established
and talked about, next will be an examination of the specific powers it's supposed to have, as per the
way the convention set it up.
  Can you give yourself to a man who
loves you with all his heart, and can never do enough to show his remorse for his own miserable
mistake? Animadversion fifth point will demand little. Idolizers most bigoted of state authority have shown
thus far not to deny a judicial provision cognizances maritime cases. These
so generally depend on the laws of nations, and so commonly affect
the rights of foreigners, they enter into the considerations that
are related to public policy.

The most important part of them, the present Confederation, submitted to federal jurisdiction.

Reasonableness of the agency to national courts where state courts
may have to be impartial, speaks for itself.

No man should definitely be a judge in his own case, or any other
reason why he has the least interest or bias.

This principle is no difficulty in designating negligible federal courts
to determine the proper courts controversies between different states
and their citizens.

And should have the same operation in regard to some cases between citizens of the same State.
Land claims under grants of different states, based on claims of border effects are of this description.
None of the Member granting the courts could be expected to be impartial. Laws
can be predicted even question and related court decisions established
for state subsidies to which they belonged.

And even if this was not done, it would be natural for judges, as men, should feel a strong inclination
to support their own government.


A stampede towards the window interrupted the conclusion of the sentence, and the sisters stared
at the unconscious couple with eager scrutiny.  They peered to right and left, craned their
necks to one side and then the other, rushed to a second window to obtain a better view, and
finally turned back and faced each other with expressions of awed conviction.

"It is--for a ducat!  Oh dear, what a nuisance!" cried Agatha pitifully. "What shall we do
without our Maud?  First Nan, and then Maud--the house will be lost without them!"

"Our loss is their gain.  We must be resigned.  It is what we must expect.  One bird after
another will fly away, and leave the old nest bare.  It is the order of Nature," sighed Elsie
sadly.

"Another wedding!  Another bridesmaid's dress.  How s-implay lovelay!" cried Christabel rapturously;
but Nan stood apart with clasped hands, and dark eyes full of tears.

"The only thing," she sighed to herself--"the only thing I had left to wish for.  Oh, how thankful
I am!  What a dear world it is!  How good God is to us all!"

THE END.