Japhet in Search of a Father" was published in 1836, the seventh book to flow from Marryat's
pen.  It was the first of Marryat's books not to have a nautical setting.  It is a brilliantly
written book, giving us insights into aspects of nineteenth century life that we cannot easily
get elsewhere.  There is a sustained and fascinating magical quality about the book, which
makes it very compelling reading.  For many people it will be their favourite book among Marryat's
works, and certainly it ranks as one of the greatest books in British literature.

JAPHET IN SEARCH OF A FATHER, BY CAPTAIN FREDERICK MARRYAT.

PART ONE, CHAPTER ONE.

LIKE MOST OTHER CHILDREN, WHO SHOULD BE MY GODFATHER IS DECIDED BY MAMMON--SO PRECOCIOUS AS
TO MAKE SOME NOISE IN THE WORLD, AND BE HUNG A FEW DAYS AFTER I WAS BORN--CUT DOWN IN TIME,
AND PRODUCE A SCENE OF BLOODSHED--MY EARLY PROPENSITIES FULLY DEVELOPED BY THE CHOICE OF MY
PROFESSION.

Those who may be pleased to honour these pages with a perusal, will not be detained with a
long introductory history of my birth, parentage, and education.  The very title implies that,
at this period of my memoirs, I was ignorant of the two first; and it will be necessary for
the due development of my narrative, that I allow them to remain in the same state of bliss;
for in the perusal of a tale, as well as in the pilgrimage of life, ignorance of the future
may truly be considered as the greatest source of happiness.

The little that was known of me at this time I will however narrate as concisely, and as correctly,
as I am able.  It was on the -- I really forget the date, and must rise from my chair, look
for a key, open a closet, and then open an iron safe to hunt over a pile of papers--it will
detain you too long--it will be sufficient to say that it was on a night--but whether the night
was dark or moonlit, or rainy or foggy, or cloudy or fine, or starlight, I really cannot tell;
but it is of no very great consequence.  Well, it was on a night about the hour--there again
I'm puzzled, it might have been ten, or eleven, or twelve, or between any of these hours; nay,
it might have been past midnight, and far advancing to the morning, for what I know to the
contrary.  The reader must excuse an infant of -- there again I am at a nonplus; but we will
assume of some days old--if, when wrapped up in flannel and in a covered basket, and, moreover,
fast asleep at the time, he does not exactly observe the state of the weather, and the time
by the church clock.  I never before was aware of the great importance of dates in telling
a story; but it is now too late to recover these facts, which have been swept away into oblivion
by the broad wing of Time.  I must therefore just tell the little I do know, trusting to the
reader's good nature, and to blanks.  It is as follows:--that, at the hour -- of the night--the
state of the weather being also --:--I, an infant of a certain age -- was suspended by somebody
or somebodies -- at the knocker of the Foundling Hospital.  Having made me fast, the said somebody
or somebodies rang a peal upon the bell which made the old porter start up in so great a hurry,
that, with the back of his hand he hit his better half a blow on the nose, occasioning a great
suffusion of blood from that organ, and a still greater pouring forth of invectives from the
organ immediately below it.

All this having been effected by the said peal on the bell, the said somebody or somebodies
did incontinently take to their heels, and disappear long before the old porter could pull
his legs through his nether garments and obey the rude summons.  At last the old man swang
open the gate and the basket swang across his nose; he went in again for a knife and cut me
down, for it was cruel to hang a baby of a few days old; carried me into the lodge, lighted
a candle, and opened the basket. Thus did I metaphorically first come to light.

When he opened the basket I opened my eyes, and although I did not observe it, the old woman
was standing at the table in very light attire, sponging her nose over a basin.

"Verily, a pretty babe with black eyes!" exclaimed the old man in a tremulous voice.

"Black eyes, indeed," muttered the old woman.  "I shall have two to-morrow."

"Beautiful black eyes, indeed!" continued the old man.

"Terrible black eyes, for sartain," continued the old woman, as she sponged away.

"Poor thing, it must be cold," murmured the old porter.

"Warrant I catch my death a-cold," muttered the wife.

"But, dear me, here's a paper!" exclaimed the old man.

"Vinegar and brown paper," echoed the old woman.

"Addressed to the governors of the hospital," continued the porter.

"Apply to the dispenser of the hospital," continued his wife.

"And sealed," said he.

"Get it healed," said she.

"The linen is good; it must be the child of no poor people.  Who knows?"--soliloquised the old man.

"My poor nose!" exclaimed the old woman.

"I must take it to the nurses, and the letter I will give to-morrow," said the old porter,
winding up his portion of this double soliloquy, and tottering away with the basket and your
humble servant across the court-yard.

"There, it will do now," said the old wife, wiping her face on a towel, and regaining her bed,
in which she was soon joined by her husband, and they finished their nap without any further
interruption during that night.

The next morning I was reported and examined, and the letter addressed to the governors was
opened and read.  It was laconic, but still, as most things laconic are, very much to the point.

"This child was born in wedlock--he is to be named Japhet.  When circumstances permit, he will
be reclaimed."

But there was a postscript by Abraham Newland, Esquire, promising to pay the bearer, on demand,
the sum of fifty pounds.  In plainer terms, there was a bank note to that amount inclosed in
the letter.  As in general the parties who suspend children in baskets, have long before suspended
cash payments, or, at all events, forget to suspend them with the baskets, my arrival created
no little noise, to which I added my share, until I obtained a share of the breast of a young
woman, who, like Charity, suckled two or three babies at one time.

We have preparatory schools all over the kingdom; for young gentlemen, from three to five years
of age, under ladies, and from four to seven, under either, or both sexes, as it may happen;
but the most preparatory of all preparatory schools, is certainly the Foundling Hospital, which
takes in its pupils, if they are sent, from one to three days old, or even hours, if the parents
are in such extreme anxiety about their education.  Here it commences with their weaning, when
they are instructed in the mystery of devouring pap, next, they are taught to walk--and as
soon as they can walk--to sit still; to talk--and as soon as they can talk--to hold their tongues;
thus are they instructed and passed on from one part of the establishment to another, until
they finally are passed out of its gates, to get on in the world, with the advantages of some
education, and the still further advantage of having no father or mother to provide for, or
relatives to pester them with their necessities.  It was so with me: I arrived at the age of
fourteen, and notwithstanding the promise contained in the letter, it appeared that circumstances
did not permit of my being reclaimed.  But I had a great advantage over the other inmates of
the hospital; the fifty pounds sent with me were not added to the funds of the establishment,
but generously employed for my benefit by the governors, who were pleased with my conduct,
and thought highly of my abilities.  Instead of being bound 'prentice to a cordwainer, or some
other mechanic, by the influence of the governors, added to the fifty pounds and interest,
as a premium, I was taken by an apothecary, who engaged to bring me up to the profession. 
And now, that I am out of the Foundling, we must not travel quite so fast.  The practitioner
who thus took me by the hand was a Mr Phineas Cophagus, whose house was most conveniently situated
for business, one side of the shop looking upon Smithfield Market, the other presenting a surface
of glass to the principal street leading out of the same market.  It was a corner house, but
not in a corner.  On each side of the shop were two gin establishments, and next to them were
two public-houses and then two eating-houses, frequented by graziers, butchers, and drovers.
Did the men drink so much as to quarrel in their cups, who was so handy to plaster up the broken
heads as Mr Cophagus? Did a fat grazier eat himself into an apoplexy, how very convenient was
the ready lancet of Mr Cophagus.  Did a bull gore a man, Mr Cophagus appeared with his diachylon
and lint.  Did an ox frighten a lady, it was in the back parlour of Mr Cophagus that she was
recovered from her syncope.  Market-days were a sure market to my master; and if an overdriven
beast knocked down others, it only helped to set him on his legs.  Our window suffered occasionally;
but whether it were broken heads, or broken limbs, or broken windows, they were well paid for.
Everyone suffered but Mr Phineas Cophagus, who never suffered a patient to escape him.  The
shop had the usual allowance of green, yellow, and blue bottles; and in hot weather, from our
vicinity, we were visited by no small proportion of bluebottle flies.  We had a white horse
in one window, and a brown horse in the other, to announce to the drovers that we supplied
horse-medicines.  And we had all the patent medicines in the known world, even to the "all-sufficient
medicine for mankind" of Mr Enouy; having which, I wondered, on my first arrival, why we troubled
ourselves about any others.  The shop was large, and at the back part there was a most capacious
iron mortar, with a pestle to correspond. The first floor was tenanted by Mr Cophagus, who
was a bachelor; the second floor was let; the others were appropriated to the housekeeper,
and to those who formed the establishment.  In this well-situated tenement, Mr Cophagus got
on swimmingly.  I will, therefore, for the present, sink the shop, that my master may rise
in the estimation of the reader, when I describe his person and his qualifications.

Mr Phineas Cophagus might have been about forty-five years of age when I first had the honour
of an introduction to him in the receiving-room of the Foundling Hospital.  He was of the middle
height, his face was thin, his nose very much hooked, his eyes small and peering, with a good-humoured
twinkle in them, his mouth large, and drawn down at one corner.  He was stout in his body,
and carried a considerable protuberance before him, which he was in the habit of patting with
his left hand very complacently; but although stout in his body, his legs were mere spindles,
so that, in his appearance, he reminded you of some bird of the crane genus.  Indeed, I may
say, that his whole figure gave you just such an impression as an orange might do, had it taken
to itself a couple of pieces of tobacco pipes as vehicles of locomotion. He was dressed in
a black coat and waistcoat, white cravat and high collar to his shirt, blue cotton net pantaloons
and Hessian boots, both fitting so tight, that it appeared as if he was proud of his spindle
shanks.  His hat was broad-brimmed and low, and he carried a stout black cane with a gold top
in his right hand, almost always raising the gold top to his nose when he spoke, just as we
see doctors represented at a consultation in the caricature prints.  But if his figure was
strange, his language and manners were still more so.  He spoke, as some birds fly, in jerks,
intermixing his words, for he never completed a whole sentence, with um--um--and ending it
with "so on," leaving his hearers to supply the context from the heads of his discourse.  Almost
always in motion, he generally changed his position as soon as he had finished speaking, walking
to any other part of the room, with his cane to his nose, and his head cocked on one side,
with a self-sufficient tiptoe gait.  When I was ushered into his presence, he was standing
with two of the governors.  "This is the lad," said one of them, "his name is Japhet."

"Japhet," replied Mr Cophagus; "um, scriptural--Shem, Ham, um--and so on.  Boy reads?"

"Very well, and writes a very good hand.  He is a very good boy, Mr Cophagus."

"Read--write--spell--good, and so on.  Bring him up--rudiments-- spatula--write labels--um--M.D.
one of these days--make a man of him-- and so on," said this strange personage, walking round
and round me with his cane to his nose, and scrutinising my person with his twinkling eyes.
I was dismissed after this examination and approval, and the next day, dressed in a plain suit
of clothes, was delivered by the porter at the shop of Mr Phineas Cophagus, who was not at
home when I arrived.

PART ONE, CHAPTER TWO.

LIKE ALL TYROS, I FIND THE RUDIMENTS OF LEARNING EXTREMELY DIFFICULT AND LABORIOUS, BUT ADVANCE
SO RAPIDLY THAT I CAN DO WITHOUT MY MASTER.

A tall, fresh-coloured, but hectic looking young man, stood behind the counter, making up prescriptions,
and a dirty lad, about thirteen years old, was standing near with his basket to deliver the
medicines to the several addresses, as soon as they were ready.  The young man behind the counter,
whose name was Brookes, was within eighteen months of serving his time, when his friends intended
to establish him on his own account, and this was the reason which induced Mr Cophagus to take
me, that I might learn the business, and supply his place when he left.  Mr Brookes was a very
quiet, amiable person, kind to me and the other boy who carried out the medicines, and who
had been taken by Mr Cophagus, for his food and raiment.  The porter told Mr Brookes who I
was, and left me.  "Do you think that you will like to be an apothecary?" said Mr Brookes to
me, with a benevolent smile.

"Yes; I do not see why I should not," replied I.

"Stop a moment," said the lad who was waiting with the basket, looking archly at me, "you hav'n't
got through your rudimans yet."

"Hold your tongue, Timothy," said Mr Brookes.  "That you are not very fond of the rudiments,
as Mr Cophagus calls them, is very clear.  Now walk off as fast as you can with these medicines,
sir--14, Spring Street; 16, Cleaver Street, as before; and then to John Street, 55, Mrs Smith's.
Do you understand?"

"To be sure I do--can't I read?  I reads all the directions, and all your Latin stuff into
the bargain--all your summen dusses, horez, diez, cockly hairy.  I mean to set up for myself
one of these days."

"I'll knock you down one of these days, Mr Timothy, if you stay so long as you do, looking
at the print shops; that you may depend upon."

"I keep up all my learning that way," replied Timothy, walking off with his load, turning his
head round and laughing at me, as he quitted the shop.  Mr Brookes smiled, but said nothing.

As Timothy went out, in came Mr Cophagus.  "Heh!  Japhet--I see," said he, putting up his cane,
"nothing to do--bad--must work--um--and so on. Mr Brookes--boy learn rudiments--good--and so
on."  Hereupon Mr Cophagus took his cane from his nose, pointed to the large iron mortar, and
then walked away into the back parlour.  Mr Brookes understood his master, if I did not.  He
wiped out the mortar, threw in some drugs, and, showing me how to use the pestle, left me to
my work.  In half an hour I discovered why it was that Timothy had such an objection to what
Mr Cophagus facetiously termed the rudiment of the profession.  It was dreadful hard work for
a boy; the perspiration ran down me in streams, and I could hardly lift my arms.  When Mr Cophagus
passed through the shop and looked at me, as I continued to thump away with the heavy iron
pestle, "Good,"--said he, "by-and-by--M.D.--and so on."  I thought it was a very rough road
to such preferment, and I stopped to take a little breath.  "By-the-by--Japhet--Christian name
-- and so on-- sirname--heh!"

"Mr Cophagus wishes to know your other name," said Mr Brookes, interpreting.

I have omitted to acquaint the reader that sirnames as well as Christian names are always given
to the children at the Foundling, and in consequence of the bank note found in my basket, I
had been named after the celebrated personage whose signature it bore.  "Newland is my other
name, sir," replied I.

"Newland--heh!--very good name--everybody likes to see that name--and have plenty of them in
his pockets too--um--very comfortable--and so on," replied Mr Cophagus, leaving the shop.

I resumed my thumping occupation, when Timothy returned with his empty basket.  He laughed
when he saw me at work.  "Well, how do you like the rudimans?--and so on--heh?" said he, mimicking
Mr Cophagus.

"Not overmuch," replied I, wiping my face.

"That was my job before you came.  I have been more than a year, and never have got out of
those rudimans yet, and I suppose I never shall."

Mr Brookes, perceiving that I was tired, desired me to leave off, an order which I gladly obeyed,
and I took my seat in a corner of the shop.

"There," said Timothy, laying down his basket; "no more work for me hanty prandium, is there,
Mr Brookes?"

"No, Tim; but post prandium, you'll post off again."

Dinner being ready, and Mr Cophagus having returned, he and Mr Brookes went into the back parlour,
leaving Timothy and me in the shop to announce customers.  And I shall take this opportunity
of introducing Mr Timothy more particularly, as he will play a very conspicuous part in this
narrative.  Timothy was short in stature for his age, but very strongly built.  He had an oval
face, with a very dark complexion, grey eyes flashing from under their long eyelashes, and
eyebrows nearly meeting each other.  He was marked with the small pox, not so much as to disfigure
him, but still it was very perceptible when near to him.  His countenance was always lighted
up with merriment; there was such a happy, devil-may-care expression in his face, that you
liked him the first minute that you were in his company, and I was intimate with him immediately.

"I say, Japhet," said he, "where did you come from?"

"The Foundling," replied I.

"Then you have no friends or relations."

"If I have, I do not know where to find them," replied I, very gravely.

"Pooh! don't be grave upon it.  I hav'n't any either.  I was brought up by the parish, in the
workhouse.  I was found at the door of a gentleman's house, who sent me to the overseers--I
was about a year old then.  They call me a foundling, but I don't care what they call me, so
long as they don't call me too late for dinner.  Father and mother, whoever they were, when
they run away from me, didn't run away with my appetite.  I wonder how long master means to
play with his knife and fork.  As for Mr Brookes, what he eats wouldn't physic a snipe.  What's
your other name, Japhet?"

"Newland."

"Newland--now you shall have mine in exchange: Timothy Oldmixon at your service.  They christened
me after the workhouse pump, which had `Timothy Oldmixon fecit' on it: and the overseers thought
it as good a name to give me as any other; so I was christened after the pump-maker with some
of the pump water.  As soon as I was big enough, they employed me to pump all the water for
the use of the workhouse.  I worked at my papa, as I called the pump, all day long.  Few sons
worked their father more, or disliked him so much; and now, Japhet, you see, from habit, I'm
pumping you."

"You'll soon pump dry, then, for I've very little to tell you," replied I; "but, tell me, what
sort of a person is our master?"

"He's just what you see him, never alters, hardly ever out of humour, and when he is, he is
just as odd as ever.  He very often threatens me, but I have never had a blow yet, although
Mr Brookes has complained once or twice."

"But surely Mr Brookes is not cross?"

"No, he is a very good gentleman; but sometimes I carry on my rigs a little too far, I must
say that.  For as Mr Brookes says, people may die for want of the medicines, because I put
down my basket to play. It's very true; but I can't give up `peg in the ring' on that account.
But then I only get a box of the ear from Mr Brookes, and that goes for nothing.  Mr Cophagus
shakes his stick, and says, `Bad boy--big stick-- um--won't forget--next time--and so on,'"
continued Timothy, laughing; "and it is so on, to the end of the chapter."

By this time Mr Cophagus and his assistant had finished their dinner, and came into the shop.
The former looked at me, put his stick to his nose, "Little boys--always hungry--um--like good
dinner--roast beef-- Yorkshire pudding--and so on," and he pointed with the stick to the back
parlour.  Timothy and I understood him very well this time: we went into the parlour, when
the housekeeper sat down with us, and helped us.  She was a terribly cross, little old woman,
but as honest as she was cross, which is all that I shall say in her favour.  Timothy was no
favourite, because he had such a good appetite; and it appeared that I was not very likely
to stand well in her good opinion, for I also ate a great deal, and every extra mouthful I
took I sank in her estimation, till I was nearly at the zero, where Timothy had long been for
the same offence; but Mr Cophagus would not allow her to stint him, saying, "Little boys must
eat--or won't grow--and so on."

I soon found out that we were not only well fed, but in every other point well treated, and
I was very comfortable and happy.  Mr Brookes instructed me in the art of labelling and tying
up, and in a very short time I was very expert; and as Timothy predicted, the rudiments were
once more handed over to him.  Mr Cophagus supplied me with good clothes, but never gave me
any pocket-money, and Timothy and I often lamented that we had not even a halfpenny to spend.

Before I had been many months in the shop, Mr Brookes was able to leave when any exigence required
his immediate attendance.  I made up the pills, but he weighed out the quantities in the prescriptions:
if, therefore anyone came in for medicines, I desired them to wait the return of Mr Brookes,
who would be in very soon.  One day, when Mr Brookes was out, and I was sitting behind the
counter, Timothy sitting on it, and swinging his legs to and fro, both lamenting that we had
no pocket-money, Timothy said, "Japhet, I've been puzzling my brains how we can get some money,
and I've hit it at last; let you and I turn doctors; we won't send all the people away who
come when Mr Brookes is out, but we'll physic them ourselves."  I jumped at the idea, and he
had hardly proposed it, when an old woman came in, and addressing Timothy, said, "That she
wanted something for her poor grandchild's sore throat."

"I don't mix up the medicines, ma'am," replied Timothy; "you must apply to that gentleman,
Mr Newland, who is behind the counter--he understands what is good for everybody's complaints."

"Bless his handsome face--and so young too!  Why, be you a doctor, sir?"

"I should hope so," replied I; "what is it you require--a lotion, or an embrocation?"

"I don't understand those hard words, but I want some doctor's stuff."

"Very well, my good woman; I know what is proper," replied I, assuming an important air.  "Here,
Timothy, wash out this vial very clean."

"Yes, sir," replied Timothy, very respectfully.

I took one of the measures, and putting in a little green, a little blue, and a little white
liquid from the medicine bottles generally used by Mr Brookes, filled it up with water, poured
the mixture into the vial, corked and labelled it, haustus statim sumendus, and handed it over
the counter to the old woman.

"Is the poor child to take it, or is it to rub outside?" inquired the old woman.

"The directions are on the label;--but you don't read Latin?"

"Deary me, no!  Latin! and do you understand Latin? what a nice clever boy!"

"I should not be a good doctor if I did not," replied I.  "On second thoughts, I consider it
advisable and safer, that the application should be external, so I translated the label to
her--Haustus, rub it in--statim, on the throat--sumendus, with the palm of the hand."

"Deary me! and does it mean all that?  How much have I to pay, sir?"

"Embrocation is a very dear medicine, my good woman; it ought to be eighteen-pence, but as
you are a poor woman, I shall only charge you nine-pence."

"I'm sure I thank you kindly," replied the old woman, putting down the money, and wishing me
a good morning as she left the shop.

"Bravo!" cried Timothy, rubbing his hands; "it's halves, Japhet, is it not?"

"Yes," I replied; "but first we must be honest, and not cheat Mr Cophagus; the vial is sold,
you know, for one penny, and I suppose the stuff I have taken is not worth a penny more.  Now,
if we put aside two-pence for Mr Cophagus, we don't cheat him, or steal his property; the other
seven-pence is of course our own--being the profits of the profession."

"But how shall we account for receiving the two-pence?" said Timothy.

"Selling two vials instead of one: they are never reckoned, you know."

"That will do capitally," cried Timothy; "and now for halves."  But this could not be managed
until Timothy had run out and changed the sixpence; we then each had our three-pence halfpenny,
and for once in our lives could say that we had money in our pockets.

PART ONE, CHAPTER THREE.

I PERFORM A WONDERFUL CURE UPON SAINT JOHN LONG'S PRINCIPLE, HAVING LITTLE OR NO PRINCIPLE
OF MY OWN--I BEGIN TO PUZZLE MY HEAD WITH A PROBLEM, OF ALL OTHERS MOST DIFFICULT TO SOLVE.

The success of our first attempt encouraged us to proceed; but afraid that I might do some
mischief, I asked of Mr Brookes the nature and qualities of the various medicines, as he was
mixing the prescriptions, that I might avoid taking any of those which were poisonous.  Mr
Brookes, pleased with my continual inquiries, gave me all the information I could desire, and
thus I gained, not only a great deal of information, but also a great deal of credit with Mr
Cophagus, to whom Mr Brookes had made known my diligence and thirst for knowledge.

"Good--very good," said Mr Cophagus; "fine boy--learns his business-- M.D. one of these days--ride
in his coach--um, and so on." Nevertheless, at my second attempt, I made an awkward mistake,
which very near led to detection.  An Irish labourer, more than half tipsy, came in one evening,
and asked whether we had such a thing as was called "A poor man's plaster.  By the powers,
it will be a poor man's plaster when it belongs to me; but they tell me that it is a sure and
sartain cure for the thumbago, as they call it, which I've at the small of my back, and which
is a hinder to my mounting up the ladder; so as it's Saturday night, and I've just got the
money, I'll buy the plaster first, and then try what a little whisky inside will do; the devil's
in it if it won't be driven out of me between the two."

We had not that plaster in the shop, but we had blister plaster, and Timothy, handing one to
me, I proffered it to him.  "And what may you be after asking for this same?" inquired he.

The blister plasters were sold at a shilling each, when spread on paper, so I asked him eighteen-pence,
that we might pocket the extra sixpence.

"By the powers, one would think that you had made a mistake, and handed me the rich man's plaster
instead of the poor one's.  It's less whisky I'll have to drink, anyhow; but here's the money,
and the top of the morning to ye, seeing as how it's jist getting late."

Timothy and I laughed as we divided the sixpence.  It appeared that after taking his allowance
of whisky, the poor fellow fixed the plaster on his back when he went to bed, and the next
morning found himself in a condition not to be envied.  It was a week before we saw him again,
and much to the horror of Timothy and myself, he walked into the shop when Mr Brookes was employed
behind the counter.  Timothy perceived him before he saw us, and pulling me behind the large
mortar, we contrived to make our escape into the back parlour, the door of which we held ajar
to hear what would take place.

"Murder and turf!" cried the man; "but that was the devil's own plaster that you gave me here
for my back, and it left me as raw as a turnip, taking every bit of my skin off me entirely,
forebye my lying in bed for a whole week, and losing my day's work."

"I ready do not recollect supplying you with a plaster, my good man," replied Mr Brookes.

"Then, by the piper that played before Moses, if you don't recollect it, I've an idea that
I shall never forget it.  Sure enough, it cured me, but wasn't I quite kilt before I was cured?"

"It must have been some other shop," observed Mr Brookes.  "You have made a mistake."

"Devil a bit of mistake, except in selling me the plaster.  Didn't I get it of a lad in this
same shop?"

"Nobody sells things out of this shop without my knowledge."

The Irishman was puzzled--he looked round the shop.  "Well, then, if this a'n't the shop, it
was own sister to it."

"Timothy," called Mr Brookes.

"And sure enough there was a Timothy in the other shop, for I heard the boy call the other
by the name; however, it's no matter if it took off the skin, it also took away the thumbago,
so the morning to you, Mr Pottykary."

When the Irishman departed, we made our appearance.  "Japhet, did you sell a plaster to an
Irishman?"

"Yes--don't you recollect, last Saturday? and I gave you the shilling."

"Very true; but what did he ask for?"

"He asked for a plaster, but he was very tipsy.  I showed him a blister, and he took it;" and
then I looked at Timothy and laughed.

"You must not play such tricks," said Mr Brookes.  "I see what you have been about--it was
a joke to you, but not to him."

Mr Brookes, who imagined we had sold it to the Irishman out of fun, then gave us a very severe
lecture, and threatened to acquaint Mr Cophagus if ever we played such tricks again.  Thus
the affair blew over, and it made me very careful; and, as every day I knew more about medicines,
I was soon able to mix them, so as to be of service to those who applied, and before eighteen
months had expired, I was trusted with the mixing up of all the prescriptions.  At the end
of that period Mr Brookes left us, and I took the whole of his department upon myself, giving
great satisfaction to Mr Cophagus.

And now that I have announced my promotion, it will perhaps be as well that I give the reader
some idea of my personal appearance, upon which I have hitherto been silent.  I was thin, between
fifteen and sixteen years old, very tall for my age, and of my figure I had no reason to be
ashamed; a large beaming eye, with a slightly aquiline nose, a high forehead, fair in complexion,
but with very dark hair.  I was always what may be termed a remarkably clean-looking boy, from
the peculiarity of my skin and complexion; my teeth were small, but were transparent, and I
had a very deep dimple in my chin.  Like all embryo apothecaries, I carried in my appearance,
if not the look of wisdom, most certainly that of self-sufficiency, which does equally well
with the world in general.  My forehead was smooth, and very white, and my dark locks were
combed back systematically, and with a regularity that said, as plainly as hair could do, "The
owner of this does everything by prescription, measurement, and rule."  With my long fingers
I folded up the little packets, with an air as thoughtful and imposing as that of a minister
who has just presented a protocol as interminable as unintelligible; and the look of solemn
sagacity with which I poured out the contents of one vial into the other, would have well become
the king's physician, when he watched the "lord's anointed" in articulo mortis.

As I followed up my saturnine avocation, I generally had an open book on the counter beside
me; not a marble-covered dirty volume, from the Minerva press, or a half-bound, half-guinea's
worth of fashionable trash, but a good, honest, heavy-looking, wisdom-implying book, horribly
stuffed with epithet of drug; a book in which Latin words were redundant, and here and there
were to be observed the crabbed characters of Greek.  Altogether, with my book and my look,
I cut such a truly medical appearance, that even the most guarded would not have hesitated
to allow me the sole conduct of a whitlow, from inflammation to suppuration, and from suppuration
to cure, or have refused to have confided to me the entire suppression of a gumboil.  Such
were my personal qualifications at the time that I was raised to the important office of dispenser
of, I may say, life and death.

It will not surprise the reader when I tell him that I was much noticed by those who came to
consult, or talk with, Mr Cophagus.  "A very fine looking lad that, Mr Cophagus," an acquaintance
would say.  "Where did you get him--who is his father?"

"Father!"  Mr Cophagus would reply, when they had gained the back parlour, but I could overhear
him, "father, um--can't tell--love-- concealment--child born--Foundling Hospital--put out--and
so on."

This was constantly occurring, and the constant occurrence made me often reflect upon my condition,
which otherwise I might, from the happy and even tenor of my life, have forgotten.  When I
retired to my bed I would revolve in my mind all that I had gained from the governors of the
hospital relative to myself.--The paper found in the basket had been given to me.  I was born
in wedlock--at least, so said that paper.  The sum left with me also proved that my parents
could not, at my birth, have been paupers.  The very peculiar circumstances attending my case,
only made me more anxious to know my parentage.  I was now old enough to be aware of the value
of birth, and I was also just entering the age of romance, and many were the strange and absurd
reveries in which I indulged.  At one time I would cherish the idea that I was of a noble,
if not princely birth, and frame reasons for concealment.  At others-- but it is useless to
repeat the absurdities and castle buildings which were generated in my brain from mystery.
My airy fabrics would at last disappear, and leave me in all the misery of doubt and abandoned
hope. Mr Cophagus, when the question was sometimes put to him, would say, "Good boy--very good
boy--don't want a father."  But he was wrong, I did want a father, and every day the want became
more pressing, and I found myself continually repeating the question, "Who is my father?"

PART ONE, CHAPTER FOUR.

VERY MUCH PUZZLED WITH A NEW PATIENT, NEVERTHELESS TAKE MY DEGREE AT FIFTEEN AS AN M.D.; AND
WHAT IS STILL MORE ACCEPTABLE, I POCKET THE FEES.

The departure of Mr Brookes, of course, rendered me more able to follow up with Timothy my
little professional attempts to procure pocket-money; but independent of these pillages by
the aid of pills, and making drafts upon our master's legitimate profits, by the assistance
of draughts from his shop, accident shortly enabled me to raise the ways and means in a more
rapid manner.  But of this directly.

In the mean time I was fast gaining knowledge; every evening I read surgical and medical books,
put into my hands by Mr Cophagus, who explained whenever I applied to him, and I soon obtained
a very fair smattering of my profession.  He also taught me how to bleed, by making me, in
the first instance, puncture very scientifically all the larger veins of a cabbage-leaf, until
well satisfied with the delicacy of my hand, and the precision of my eye, he wound up his instructions
by permitting me to breathe a vein in his own arm.

"Well," said Timothy, when he first saw me practising, "I have often heard it said, there's
no getting blood out of a turnip; but it seems there is more chance with a cabbage.  I tell
you what, Japhet, you may try your hand upon me as much as you please, for two-pence a go."

I consented to this arrangement, and by dint of practising on Timothy over and over again,
I became quite perfect.  I should here observe, that my anxiety relative to my birth increased
every day, and that in one of the books lent me by Mr Cophagus, there was a dissertation upon
the human frame, sympathies, antipathies, and also on those features and peculiarities most
likely to descend from one generation to another.  It was there asserted, that the nose was
the facial feature most likely to be transmitted from father to son.  As I before have mentioned,
my nose was rather aquiline; and after I had read this book, it was surprising with what eagerness
I examined the faces of those whom I met; and if I saw a nose upon any man's face, at all resembling
my own, I immediately would wonder and surmise whether that person could be my father.  The
constant dwelling upon the subject at last created a species of monomania, and a hundred times
a day I would mutter to myself, "Who is my father?" indeed, the very bells, when they rung
a peal, seemed, as in the case of Whittington, to chime the question, and at last I talked
so much on the subject to Timothy, who was my Fidus Achate, and bosom friend, that I really
believe, partial as he was to me, he wished my father at the devil.

Our shop was well appointed with all that glare and glitter with which we decorate the "house
of call" of disease and death.  Being situated in such a thoroughfare, passengers would stop
to look in, and ragged-vested, and in other garments still more ragged, little boys would stand
to stare at the variety of colours, and the 'pottecary gentleman, your humble servant, who
presided over so many labelled-in-gold phalanxes which decorated the sides of the shop.

Among those who always stopped and gazed as she passed by, which was generally three or four
times a day, was a well-dressed female, apparently about forty years of age, straight as an
arrow, with an elasticity of step, and a decision in her manner of walking, which was almost
masculine, although her form, notwithstanding that it was tall and thin, was extremely feminine
and graceful.  Sometimes she would fix her eyes upon me, and there was a wildness in her looks,
which certainly gave a painful impression, and at the same time so fascinated me, that when
I met her gaze, the paper which contained the powder remained unfolded, and the arm which was
pouring out the liquid suspended.

She was often remarked by Timothy, as well as me; and we further observed, that her step was
not equal throughout the day.  In her latter peregrinations, towards the evening, her gait
was more vigorous, but unequal, at the same time that her gaze was more steadfast.  She usually
passed the shop for the last time each day about five o'clock in the afternoon.

One evening, after we had watched her past, as we supposed, to return no more till the ensuing
morning, for this peeping in, on her part, had become an expected occurrence, and afforded
much amusement to Timothy, who designated her as the "mad woman," to our great surprise, and
to the alarm of Timothy, who sprang over the counter, and took a position by my side, she walked
into the shop.  Her eye appeared wild, as usual, but I could not make out that it was insanity.
I recovered my self-possession, and desired Timothy to hand the lady a chair, begging to know
in what way I could be useful.  Timothy walked round by the end of the counter, pushed a chair
near to her, and then made a hasty retreat to his former position.  She declined the chair
with a motion of her hand, in which there was much dignity, as well as grace, and placing upon
the counter her hands, which were small and beautifully white, she bent forwards towards me,
and said, in a sweet, low voice, which actually startled me by its depth of melody, "I am very
ill."

My astonishment increased.  Why, I know not, because the exceptions are certainly as many as
the general rule, we always form an estimate of the voice before we hear it, from the outward
appearance of the speaker; and when I looked up in her face, which was now exposed to the glare
of the argand lamp, and witnessed the cadaverous, pale, chalky expression on it, and the crow's
feet near the eyes, and wrinkles on her forehead, I should have sooner expected to have heard
a burst of heavenly symphony from a thundercloud, than such music as issued from her parted lips.

"Good heavens, madam!" said I eagerly and respectfully, "allow me to send for Mr Cophagus."

"By no means," replied she.  "I come to you.  I am aware," continued she in an undertone, "that
you dispense medicines, give advice, and receive money yourself."

I felt very much agitated, and the blush of detection mounted up to my forehead.  Timothy,
who heard what she said, showed his uneasiness in a variety of grotesque ways.  He drew up
his legs alternately, as if he were dancing on hot plates; he slapped his pockets, grinned,
clenched his fists, ground his teeth, and bit his lips till he made the blood come.  At last
he sidled up to me, "She has been peeping and screwing those eyes of hers into this shop for
something.  It is all up with both of us, unless you can buy her off."

"I have, madam," said I, at last, "ventured to prescribe in some trivial cases, and, as you
say, receive money when my master is not here; but I am entrusted with the till."

"I know--I know--you need not fear me.  You are too modest.  What I would request is, that
you would prescribe for me, as I have no great opinion of your master's talents."

"If you wish it, madam," said I, bowing respectfully.

"You have camphor julep ready made up, have you not?"

"Yes, madam," replied I.

"Then do me the favour to send the boy with a bottle to my house directly."  I handed down
the bottle, she paid for it, and putting it into Timothy's hands, desired him to take it to
the direction which she gave him.  Timothy put on his hat, cocked his eye at me, and left us alone.

"What is your name?" said she, in the same melodious voice.

"Japhet Newland, madam," replied I.

"Japhet--it is a good, a scriptural name," said the lady, musing in half soliloquy, "Newland--that
sounds of mammon."

"This mystery is unravelled," thought I, and I was right in my conjectures.  "She is some fanatical
methodist;" but I looked at her again, and her dress disclaimed the idea, for in it there was
much taste displayed.

"Who gave you that name?" said she, after a pause.

The question was simple enough, but it stirred up a host of annoying recollections; but not
wishing to make a confidant of her, I gently replied, as I used to do in the Foundling Hospital
on Sunday morning--"My godfathers and godmothers in my baptism, ma'am."

"My dear sir, I am very ill," said she, after a pause; "will you feel my pulse?"

I touched a wrist, and looked at a hand that was worthy of being admired.  What a pity, thought
I, that she should be old, ugly, and half crazy!

"Do you not think that this pulse of mine exhibits considerable nervous excitement?  I reckoned
it this morning, it was at a hundred and twenty."

"It certainly beats quick," replied I, "but perhaps the camphor julep may prove beneficial."

"I thank you for your advice, Mr Newland," said she laying down a guinea, "and if I am not
better, I will call again, or send for you. Good night."

She walked out of the shop, leaving me in no small astonishment.  What could she mean?  I was
lost in reverie, when Timothy returned.  The guinea remained on the counter.

"I met her going home," said he.  "Bless me--a guinea--why, Japhet!"  I recounted all that
had passed.  "Well, then, it has turned out well for us instead of ill, as I expected."

The us reminded me that we shared profits on these occasions, and I offered Timothy his half;
but Tim, with all his espieglerie was not selfish, and he stoutly refused to take his share.
He dubbed me an M.D., and said I had beaten Mr Cophagus already, for he had never taken a physician's
fee.

"I cannot understand it, Timothy," said I, after a few minutes' thought.

"I can," replied Timothy.  "She has looked in at the window until she has fallen in love with
your handsome face; that's it, depend upon it." As I could find no other cause, and Tim's opinion
was backed by my own vanity, I imagined that such must be the case.  "Yes, 'tis so," continued
Timothy,--"as the saying is, there's money bid for you."

"I wish that it had not been by so ill-favoured a person, at all events, Tim," replied I; "I
cannot return her affection."

"Never mind that, so long as you don't return the money."

The next evening she made her appearance, bought, as before, a bottle of camphor julep--sent
Timothy home with it, and asking my advice, paid me another guinea.

"Really, madam," said I, putting it back towards her, "I am not entitled to it."

"Yes, you are," replied she.  "I know you have no friends, and I also know that you deserve
them.  You must purchase books, you must study, or you never will be a great man."  She then
sat down, entered into conversation, and I was struck with the fire and vigour of the remarks,
which were uttered in such a melodious tone.

Her visits, during a month, were frequent, and every time did she press upon me a fee.  Although
not in love with her person, I certainly felt very grateful, and moreover was charmed with
the superiority of her mind.  We were now on the most friendly and confiding terms.  One evening
she said to me, "Japhet, we have now been friends some time. Can I trust you?"

"With your life, if it were necessary," replied I.

"I believe it," said she.  "Then can you leave the shop and come to me to-morrow evening?"

"Yes, if you will send your maid for me, saying that you are not well."

"I will, at eight o'clock.  Farewell, then, till to-morrow."

PART ONE, CHAPTER FIVE.

MY VANITY RECEIVES A DESPERATE WOUND, BUT MY HEART REMAINS UNSCATHED--AN ANOMALY IN WOMAN,
ONE WHO DESPISES BEAUTY.

The next evening I left Timothy in charge, and repaired to her house; it was very respectable
in outward appearance, as well as its furniture.  I was not, however, shown up into the first
floor, but into the room below.

"Miss Judd will come directly, sir," said a tall, meagre, puritanical looking maid, shutting
the door upon me.  In a few minutes, during which my pulse beat quick, (for I could not but
expect some disclosure; whether it was to be one of love or murder, I hardly knew which,) Miss
Aramathea Judd, for such was her Christian name, made her appearance, and sitting down on the
sofa, requested me to take a seat by her.

"Mr Newland," said she, "I wish to--and I think I can entrust you with a secret most important
to me.  Why I am obliged to do it, you will perfectly comprehend when you have heard my story.
Tell me, are you attached to me?"

This was a home question to a forward lad of sixteen.  I took her by the hand, and when I looked
down on it, I felt as if I was.  I looked up into her face, and felt that I was not.  And,
as I now was close to her, I perceived that she must have some aromatic drug in her mouth,
as it smelt strongly--this gave me the supposition that the breath which drew such melodious
tones was not equally sweet, and I felt a certain increased degree of disgust.

"I am very grateful, Miss Judd," replied I; "I hope I shall prove that I am attached when you
confide in me."

"Swear then, by all that's sacred, you will not reveal what I do confide."

"By all that's sacred I will not," replied I, kissing her hand with more fervour than I expected
from myself.

"Do me then the favour to excuse me one minute."  She left the room, and in a very short time,
there returned, in the same dress, and in every other point the same person, but with a young
and lively face of not more, apparently, than twenty-two or twenty-three years old.  I started
as if I had seen an apparition.  "Yes," said she, smiling, "you now see Aramathea Judd without
disguise; and you are the first who has seen that face for more than two years.  Before I proceed
further, again I say, may I trust you--swear!"

"I do swear," replied I, and took her hand for the book, which this time I kissed with pleasure,
over and over again.  Like a young jackass as I was, I still retained her hand, throwing as
much persuasion as I possibly could in my eyes.  In fact, I did enough to have softened the
hearts of three bonnet-makers.  I began to feel most dreadfully in love, and thought of marriage,
and making my fortune, and I don't know what; but all this was put an end to by one simple
short sentence, delivered in a very decided but soft voice, "Japhet, don't be silly."

I was crushed, and all my hopes crushed with me.  I dropped her hand, and sat like a fool.

"And now hear me.  I am, as you must have already found out, an impostor; that is, I am what
is called a religious adventuress--a new term, I grant, and perhaps only applicable to a very
few.  My aunt was considered, by a certain sect, to be a great prophetess, which I hardly need
tell you was all nonsense; nevertheless, there are hundreds who believed in her, and do so
now.  Brought up with my aunt, I soon found out what fools and dupes may be made of mankind
by taking advantage of their credulity.  She had her religious inspirations, her trances, and
her convulsions, and I was always behind the scenes; she confided in me, and I may say that
I was her only confidant.  You cannot, therefore, wonder at my practising that deceit to which
I have been brought up from almost my infancy.  In person I am the exact counterpart of what
my aunt was at my age, equally so in figure, although my figure is now disguised to resemble
that of a woman of her age.  I often had dressed myself in my aunt's clothes, put on her cap
and front, and then the resemblance was very striking.  My aunt fell sick and died, but she
promised the disciples that she would re-appear to them, and they believed her.  I did not.
She was buried, and by many her return was anxiously expected. It occurred to me about a week
afterwards that I might contrive to deceive them.  I dressed in my aunt's clothes, I painted
and disguised my face as you have seen, and the deception was complete, even to myself, as
I surveyed my countenance in the glass.  I boldly set off in the evening to the tabernacle,
which I knew they still frequented--came into the midst of them, and they fell down and worshipped
me as a prophetess risen from the dead; deceived, indeed, by my appearance, but still more
deceived by their own credulity.  For two years I have been omnipotent with them; but there
is one difficulty which shakes the faith of the new converts, and new converts I must have,
Japhet, as the old ones die, or I should not be able to fee my physician.  It is this: by habit
I can almost throw myself into a stupor or a convulsion, but to do that effectually, to be
able to carry on the deception for so long a time, and to undergo the severe fatigue attending
such violent exertion, it is necessary that I have recourse to stimulants--do you understand?"

"I do," replied I; "I have more than once thought you under the influence of them towards the
evening.  I'm afraid that you take more than is good for your health."

"Not more than I require for what I have to undergo to keep up the faith of my disciples; but
there are many who waver, some who doubt, and I find that my movements are watched.  I cannot
trust the woman in this house.  I think she is a spy set upon me, but I cannot remove her,
as this house, and all which it contains, are not mine, but belong to the disciples in general.
There is another woman, not far off, who is my rival; she calls me an impostor, and says that
she is the true prophetess, and that I am not one.  This will be rather difficult for her to
prove," continued she, with a mocking smile.  "Beset as I am, I require your assistance; for
you must be aware that it is rather discreditable to a prophetess, who has risen from the dead,
to be seen all day at the gin-shop, yet without stimulants now I could not exist."

"And how can I assist you?"

"By sending me, as medicine, that which I dare no longer procure in any other way, and keeping
the secret which I have imparted."

"I will do both with pleasure; but yet," said I, "is it not a pity, a thousand pities, that
one so young--and if you will allow me to add, so lovely, should give herself up to ardent
spirits?  Why," continued I, taking her small white hand, "why should you carry on the deception:
why sacrifice your health, and I may say your happiness--" What more I might have said I know
not, probably it might have been an offer of marriage, but she cut me short. 

These are wonderful stimulants to the delicate child and should precede
the salt glow twice a rag.

Every afternoon a hot- and- cold foot bath may be given to create a better circulation. The feet are
put in hot water from three to five minutes( as hot as can be borne), and then they are quickly
plunged into the coldest water obtainable for three seconds, then back into the hot water, and vice versa,
until three changes have been made, always finishing the treatment with the cold dip. On the
three remaining days of the week at half past three, the child will simply relax in the hammock or on
the porch couch while the mother aids in the relaxation by a pleasant story. We would suggest that
on Monday the salt glow be administered; Tuesday a rest is taken; Wednesday the soap shampoo
is to be administered; Thursday another rest; Friday a salt glow;
Saturday another rest, and Sunday the shampoo, etc. Before going
to bed at night, with the mother' s hands well oiled with either olive
or sweet oil, the circulation is again stimulated by the heavy friction
rub.

Constipation
is taken care of along the same lines as mentioned elsewhere in this
book. It is surprising to see how often these delicate children are infested
by worms, and while a great deal of dependence cannot be put in that
single symptom" grinding the teeth at night," or" pallor around the
mouth dust" does reach the sleeping seeds a great change begins to
take place.

This change is known to the adult as" impregnation;" to the little
child it may be presented as" an awakening" of the sleeping seeds,
so that they begin to grow, to develop, to expand and push out, until
we have the full- grown seeds seen in the delicious and," yet we do
believe that many a delicate child continues to suffer from worms
many years.

It is a very simple procedure to obtain a specimen of the stools. A cathartic should be given and after
usual free- bowel movement, the second time the child desires to
go to stool this should be saved and taken to the laboratory for a careful
search for worm eggs which are usually in evidence if worms infest
the child.

The treatment for worms is described elsewhere in this work.

We have seen scores of young people between the ages of eight and
eleven who, before treatment, were pale, listless, under weight, irritable
and cross, after three months of such treatment as has been outlined
gain six to ten pounds and look as ruddy as their healthiest neighborhood
friends.

It is perfectly marvelous to notice how a child will put on from
six to eight pounds in a short period and it is impossible to portray
the close companionship, the sublime trust and confidence, which exists
between the mother and the child who have been bound together by these
ties and sentiments of truthfulness, trustfulness, and frankness.

THE SALMON FAMILY The little fellow is daily learning that everything that grows comes from a seed,
even the salmon which was eaten at lunch yesterday was the text for an impressive story about Papa
and Mamma Salmon. In the beautiful Columbia river Mother Salmon is swimming about quietly seeking a
shallow place, at the same time overcoming his irritableness and fretfulness. I am more and more inclined
to believe that most bad children are sick children-- are undernourished
children-- and it behooves us American mothers and fathers to give
proper attention to this undernourished child, call a halt, and devote
three months to giving him the help that he needs. He did not ask to
come into this world; and it is" up to us" to give this child what
he deserves-- for every child in this world has a right to be well
born, to be well fed, and to be well reared.

CHAPTER XL TEACHING TRUTH We confidently believe that most of the sex immorality seen in young people
is more or less the result of ignorance and curiosity; therefore
most earnestly desire in this chapter to portray so interestingly
the beautiful story of life as seen in the vegetable and animal world,
that our mother- readers will be seized with the great desire wisely
to convey to the young child' s mind this sublime and beautiful story.

The questions most naturally arising in the mind of the reader at
this time are: When shall we begin to tell this story?

How shall we tell it?

Where shall we begin? Where shall we stop? Realizing full well that
the subject is usually handled prematurely and with unpreparedness, we
will attempt in this chapter to discuss it with courage and candor,
believing that there is a right way, a right time, and a right place to
impart this information. A LESSON FROM NATURE When the little folks
are about three or four years of age, when confidence and trust are
at their height, they often come to us begging for a" story;" and
this is the golden opportunity for the parent or caretaker to tell
them the story of Mr. and Mrs. Corn, and all their little babies;
or Mr. and Mrs. Morning Glory and their little folks.

There are a score of other equally interesting and instructive botanical
stories which are just as beautiful in their sublimity, and fairy-
like in their personality.

The little children' s eyes grow big with wonder as you tell the story of a whole township of
families by the name of Corn( See Fig. 17), who have their residences
out in the wide country fields. We will first introduce the child to
Mr. Corn, the tassel, waving proudly and majestically in the breezes,
and seeming to say:" I am master of all I survey."

The little fellow is filled with wonderment as he learns how the
clouds give up their drops of water to quench his thirst and how the
sun smiles upon him to yellow his beard; and how the wonderful all-
important pollen is developed and ripened.

Often the child eagerly asks," And where, mamma, is Mrs. Corn?" and to that interested upturned face
we relate the pleasing story of the beautiful silken tresses of
Mother Corn. Early in her life she is a beautiful shade of green, and
as she thus gracefully hangs out from the ear of corn, day by day the
smiles of sunshine turn this mother corn to brown, and then to a
still darker shade."

And where, mamma, are the babies?" the child next inquires; and, as we take the ear of corn, removing
the outer clothing-- the husks-- we find the underclothing, a much lighter shade of green, and
here now we are in close contact with the babies themselves-- the
kernels-- and to each little kernel or baby corn we find mamma closely
clinging.

Here is a beautiful opportunity to teach mother- love and mother watchfulness,
as also the opportunity to draw lessons from the baby kernels sitting
there in even rows, with their faces clean, silently contented--
just doing their duty.

The stories that may be told are limitless, and possibly as interesting as are the myths and fairy-
tales, yet all the while as true as truth itself, with no fakery, no
legends-- just simple truth. THE ALL IMPORTANT POLLEN Now on a second
trip into the cornfield, another story may be told of the important
work of the pollen.

This" father part" of the plant falls upon the silken tresses of the" mother part," such" shocking"
difficulty. One mother told me that her seven- year- old boy, beginning grade, came into her bedroom
one morning saying:" Mother, I am just busting to say something," and this mother very wisely
said," Well, say it; certainly I don' t want you to burst," and she
told me that this boy whispered to her three of the filthiest words
that he could possibly have heard on the streets.

In relating
professions this experience to by which the pollen is carried down
to the sleeping corn- baby seeds-- the kernels. And when the" corn juicy
roasting ear. Sometimes, in the case of the larger plants and trees,
Father Tree may be miles and miles away from Mother Tree and so this
all important pollen must be carried by the wind or by the bees,
and as it blows against the mother part of the plant- flower she catches
it and pushes it downward to the seed babies.

The wind scatters the pollen of the oak tree, the hazlenut, the walnut, the birch, the willow and many
others; for, without the good kind wind or the bees, the pollen would never find its way to many a
mother flower, and the" fertilization" of the seed could not take place. THE MORNING GLORY FAMILY Perhaps
the story of life can be told as beautifully from the morning- glory as any other flower. Here
the beautiful flower cup is the home of Father and Mother property
Morning- Glory and all their little babies.( See Fig. 18).

As we carefully take away their little home, the flower cup, we have
left a little green cup, and coming up from the center you will see
five little stems, every one of them wearing a hat of powder or pollen
and this-- if you please-- is Papa Morning- Glory.

Look closely and you will see coming up from the center of these five stems( stamens) one central stalk
without a hat, Mother Morning- Glory, known in botany as the" pistil"; and as you follow down this pistil
you will find an enlarged part at the base, which is known as the cradle- nest-- the home of the
seed babies.

Little was known about this wonderful fertilization of the seeds by the pollen two hundred years
ago, and a whole century passed before the secret of the blossom and the bees was discovered; and even then
it was not fully realized how great was the work of the bees in cross-
fertilization.

Nor was it understood that the beautiful blossom of the flower, with its sweet nectar, was an exceedingly
important factor in attracting the bees. Another century passed before Darwin gave to the world the
story of the great work performed by the bees in cross- fertilization--
in carrying the pollen from flower to flower, for it is now a well-
known fact that all of the blossoms visited by the bees produce better
fruit and better flowers.

In the flower where the father and mother part matures at the same time, self- fertilization is the rule. Cross-
fertilization occurs in instances flowers. HOW MOTHER NATURE WORKS Dr. Chadwick, in her Blossom Babies,
gives us a beautiful recital concerning the fertilization of plants,
which provides an endless number of interesting stories.

The water plants are very interesting in that the pollen is just
light enough to float on the exact level of the mother part of the
flower, otherwise fertilization could never take place, and there
would be no more lovely lilies.

Long throated blossoms are fertilized by their attraction for certain moths
or humming birds who have long tongues.

Mother Nature is exceedingly careful to reproduce her children, and in every conceivable way she
sees to it that her plant- seeds are fertilized and distributed.

We are
all familiar with the dandelion and the thistle and a host of others
which fly through the air with actual plumes, some seeds fly with wings, such
as the maple; other seeds travel by clinging or sticking, such as the cockle
burr; still others float and shoot; while we all know about a lot
of seeds that are good to eat, such as the nuts and fruits, as well
as many of the grains, such as corn, etc. An incubator about hatching
time is a wonderful object lesson in teaching the story of life.

Take the children to visit one and let them actually see the live baby chicks coming forth from the
seed- shells. Other wonderful lessons may be drawn from the mother
horse or the mother cow; in the stream where she may deposit her cluster
of baby seeds, which looks very much like a mass of tapioca pudding
as they gently sink to the bed of a shallow spot in the river.

There they lay" sound asleep" until Father Salmon, swimming by, is
attracted to the spot and, hesitating, talks something like this to
himself:" Why the idea, here are some helpless fish- baby seeds, they
can' t grow and develop without me, here they are sound asleep;"
and, nestling over them, he contributes the self- same and all important"
something"-- where either the father part or mother part ripen at
different times, in these cases the pollen is carried from plant to
plant by the wind or by the nectar- seeking bees.

These busy bees, with their fluffy I little feet and fuzzy coats, become completely covered with this all-
important flower dust, and in seeking nectar from other flowers they
leave the" awakening dust" behind, and thus cross- fertilization takes
place; new types of babies are produced, new generations of fruits
and comparable to the pollen of the plants-- which wakes them up.

In the case of the fish the" awakening" substance is not in the form of a powder as in the plant
world; but is in the form of a semi- liquid mass, much resembling the
white of an egg. The little seeds soon begin to tremble-- begin to
wake up-- and then begin to swell and grow and develop.

In a few days what do you suppose happens to these little bulging baby seeds? The very same thing
that happened to the chick seed-- they burst and out come hundreds of cute little fish minnows. In
just a few hours they are all swimming about in a most wonderful fish-
like manner.

EARLY QUESTIONS Some day you will be surprised by your little child suddenly
asking you some such question as this:" Mother, where did I come from?"
while in the same frank manner you reply:" Why from your mamma, of
course; where do you think you could have come from? Everything that
grows comes from its mamma-- oranges, apples, radishes, cabbages,
cats, dogs, and chickies-- everything that grows has to have a mamma
and papa," and they are often satisfied with this answer for a long
time.

No child should go to kindergarten without knowing that he came from
his mother, and this knowledge should come to him from his own mother'
s lips.

These are different days than those in which our grandmothers lived. The spirit of the investigation
and of inquiry is in the air.

The moving- picture show makes it necessary for children of nine or ten to understand these things-- to have
a knowledge of certain of the conventionalities of life. Twenty years ago this may not have been
so necessary-- the youth of that day might have waited several years
longer for certain phases of his sex instruction. It is highly important
that this knowledge be obtained from a wise and pure and sympathetic
mind-- from the child' s own parents.

One mother
put her little girl' s questions off week after week, saying:" I will tell you when you get older,
dear-- no, not now, dear; run away, you are not old enough to know such things, you must forget about
them." Thus the unprepared mother sought to gain time in which to consult the doctor or the library.
Finally the day came when the mother felt that she was sufficiently
wise to answer the query," Where did I come from," and so with her heart
in her throat she approached her daughter, saying:" Come, Mary, mother
is going to tell you all about it. I am now ready to answer your
question."

Imagine
her surprise and astonishment when Mary said:" Oh, you needn' t mind,
mother, Kate told me all about it last week."

Now the question in my mind is: how did Kate tell her? How much unnecessary information did this older
and experienced Kate put into the pure mind of this innocent little
girl?

ONE MOTHER' S AWAKENING One mother in a western state-- a county superintendent of schools-- told
us the following interesting story of her own experience, which we think may be of help to some
of our mother readers. One morning her seven- year old son rushed into the house exclaiming:" Oh,
mother, there is a new calf out in the barn, and I know where it
came from; I saw a wagon load of calves come by here yesterday, and
one of them must have dropped off, for it is right out there in the
barn with old Bess this minute."

The mother was very busy with her papers and her reports, and she
let the incident pass with a smile, thinking it was a very pretty
little story.

A week later the six- year old brother came in saying:" Mother, I think
there must have been another wagon load of calves passed by, and one
must have been lost off, for old Nell is cleaning up a little calf
out in the barn for all she is worth," while the older brother piped
up:" Sure, it was another load of calves; that is just exactly the
way the other calf got here;" and the two little fellows went off
to school.

About a month later that county superintendent suddenly became a much wiser mother than she
was before, although her heart was made to ache. Both boys came home from school one day and the older
one met her with something like this:" I am mad! I' ve been lied to; all the fellows at school
say I have, and they are making sport of me, too," and with a glare in his reddened eye he continued,"
You know that new calf did not come off that wagon; you know that calf came from old Bess herself;
all the fellows say so at school, and they are making all kinds of fun of me, and I don' t
want to go back. I' d like to run away from home." The mother quietly drew the boy to her
side and reminded him that she had simply listened; that she had not opened her mouth; that he into
the room and told about the incident himself, but this did not satisfy him. He turned to her wounded and
crushed, saying:" Well, you let a fellow believe it, and that' s just as bad;" and this educated
mother-- this trusted custodian of a county full of school children-- beseeched me to warn mothers
everywhere to teach their children the truth, and to never let a child
go to school with a sex misunderstanding.

She told me that it took her six months to get that boy' s confidence
back again.

DON' T GET SHOCKED I believe that many mothers make the sad mistake
of showing the child that they are shocked by trivial sayings and
trifling experiences of their little people.

If we could only get it into our heads for once and for all that our children are born into this world
veritable little thieves and falsifiers, as well as adventurers and explorers, we would then
cease being so shocked and outraged by their frank statements of
what they have heard or have done.

Let the mother listen to all these things with calmness, while she seeks to direct the child' s
mind in pure and elevated channels-- to help him upward by imparting"
precept upon principle; here a little and there a little."

Children will come in with stories that at first thought do greatly shock the parent; but under no
circumstances should the boy or girl discover that the parent is shocked,
for if he does he will not likely come again with another me she
said:" Do you know, doctor, that I really did not know what to think
at first, but I remembered that you had taught me never to be shocked,
and so I looked up and asked:" Do you feel better?" whereupon he breathed
a big sigh and exclaimed:" What a relief!

I have just been busting to say that to somebody."

Mother, to whom would you rather he would say these things? to you, or to some little boy out on the
street, or to some older boy?

Think what trouble and possible mischief were avoided by whispering into the sympathetic ear
of mother. This wise mother turned to that little boy and said:" Son, that ear is always waiting
for just such things and whenever you feel like saying something-- like getting
it off your mind-- you just come to me;" and he came repeatedly.

One time he came in saying:" I don' t know whether you want me to play
with Harold or not; he does some of things you told me about the
other day." And the mother thoughtfully and wisely looked up and
said:" Did he do it in front of his mother?

Why of course he didn' t. Did he ask you to go into the bedroom or bathroom and lock the door?"
and the little fellow quickly answered:" Why sure he did; how did you guess it?" and added" now I suppose
you are not going to let me play with him any more," and this wise mother, knowing that if she denied him this
privilege that it would quite likely be frequently sought, said:" Why, certainly play with Harold
in the open, but whenever he suggests secrecy--" she did not have time to finish the sentence, the boy
said:" I am to wise; whenever he gets to doing that' funny business' I' ll skiddoo." The confidence
between that mother and son, to my mind, was wonderfully sublime--
all the while practical and helpful in his daily training.

DON' T REPULSE THE CHILD A little older child sees the fowls, the
dogs, or the cats," mating," and then, rushing into the house, inquires
what it is all about; and unless the mother is on her guard some older
member of the family may show surprise and thus thoughtlessly convey
to the child' s mind that his question is improper and entirely out
of place.

To the question," What are they doing, mamma?" quietly answer," Just mating,
dear, just as the flowers mate; everything that lives or grows comes
as the result of mating."

Suppose that you were repulsed every time you approached a dear friend,
your husband, or some other member of the family? Take, for instance,
the matter of a caress or an embrace-- how would you react to repeated
rebuff? And so with the little child; he comes into this world full
of confidence and trust, full of wonder and curiosity; possessed
with the spirit of exploration and investigation-- everywhere and
all the time he asks questions.

Usually, his questions are answered thoughtfully and without hesitancy,
except along the line of one thought-- that of sex. Do not think
for one moment that he is satisfied by your evasive answers.

You have but to recall your own childhood experiences, and remember that today the moving picture
show and general public sentiment has placed the age for such knowledge from one to five years earlier
in this generation than in the past.
  I really believe that his ill-will against Timothy was one reason
for purchasing the good will of Mr Cophagus; and we were very gently told by Mr Pleggit that
he would have no occasion for our services.

Mr Cophagus offered to procure me another situation as soon as he could, and at the same time
presented me with twenty guineas, as a proof of his regard and appreciation of my conduct--but
this sum put in my hand decided me: I thanked him, and told him I had other views at present,
but hoped he would let me know where I might find him hereafter, as I should be glad to see
him again.  He told me he would leave his address for me at the Foundling Hospital, and shaking
me heartily by the hand, we parted.  Timothy was then summoned.  Mr Cophagus gave him five
guineas, and wished him good fortune.

"And now, Japhet, what are you about to do?" said Timothy, as he descended into the shop.

"To do," replied I; "I am about to leave you, which is the only thing I am sorry for.  I am
going, Timothy, in search of my father."

"Well," replied Timothy, "I feel as you do, Japhet, that it will be hard to part; and there
is another thing on my mind--which is, I am very sorry that the bull did not break the rudimans
(pointing to the iron mortar and pestle); had he had but half the spite I have against it,
he would not have left a piece as big as a thimble.  I've a great mind to have a smack at it
before I go."

"You will only injure Mr Cophagus, for the mortar will not then be paid for."

"Very true; and as he has just given me five guineas, I will refrain from my just indignation.
But now, Japhet, let me speak to you.  I don't know how you feel, but I feel as if I could
not part with you.  I do not want to go in search of my father particularly.  They say it's
a wise child that knows its own father--but as there can be no doubt of my other parent--if
I can only hit upon her, I have a strong inclination to go in search of my mother, and if you
like my company, why I will go with you--always, my dear Japhet," continued Tim, "keeping in
my mind the great difference between a person who has been fee'd as an M.D., and a lad who
only carries out his prescriptions."

"Do you really mean to say, Tim, that you will go with me?"

"Yes, to the end of the world, Japhet, as your companion, your friend, and your servant, if
you require it I love you, Japhet, and I will serve you faithfully."

"My dear Tim, I am delighted; now I am really happy: we will have but one purse, and but one
interest; if I find good fortune, you shall share it."

"And if you meet with ill luck, I will share that too--so the affair is settled--and as here
comes Mr Pleggit's assistants with only one pair of eyes between them, the sooner we pack up
the better."

In half an hour all was ready; a bundle each, contained our wardrobes. We descended from our
attic, walked proudly through the shop without making any observation, or taking any notice
of our successors; all the notice taken was by Timothy, who turned round and shook his fist
at his old enemies, the iron mortar and pestle; and there we were, standing on the pavement,
with the wide world before us, and quite undecided which way we should go.

"Is it to be east, west, north, or south, Japhet?" said Timothy.

"The wise men came from the east," replied I.

"Then they must have travelled west," said Tim; "let us show our wisdom by doing the same."

"Agreed."

Passing by a small shop we purchased two good sticks, as defenders, as well as to hang our
bundles on--and off we set upon our pilgrimage.

PART ONE, CHAPTER EIGHT.

WE TAKE A COACH, BUT THE DRIVER DOES NOT LIKE HIS FARE AND HITS US FOUL--WE CHANGE OUR MODE
OF TRAVELLING, UPON THE PRINCIPLE OF SLOW AND SURE, AND FALL IN WITH A VERY LEARNED MAN.

I believe it to be a very general custom, when people set off upon a journey to reckon up their
means--that is, to count the money which they may have in their pockets.  At all events, this
was done by Timothy and me, and I found that my stock amounted to twenty-two pounds eighteen
shillings, and Timothy's to the five guineas presented by Mr Cophagus, and three halfpence
which were in the corner of his waistcoat pocket-- sum total, twenty-eight pounds three shillings
and three halfpence; a very handsome sum, as we thought, with which to commence our peregrinations,
and, as I observed to Timothy, sufficient to last us for a considerable time, if husbanded
with care.

"Yes," replied he, "but we must husband our legs also, Japhet, or we shall soon be tired, and
very soon wear out our shoes.  I vote we take a hackney-coach."

"Take a hackney-coach, Tim! we mustn't think of it; we cannot afford such a luxury; you can't
be tired yet, we are now only just clear of Hyde Park Corner."

"Still I think we had better take a coach, Japhet, and here is one coming.  I always do take
one when I carry out medicines, to make up for the time I lose looking at the shops, and playing
peg in the ring."

I now understood what Timothy meant, which was, to get behind and have a ride for nothing.
I consented to this arrangement, and we got up behind one which was already well filled inside.
"The only difference between an inside and outside passenger in a hackney-coach is, that, one
pays, and the other does not," said I, to Timothy, as we rolled along at the act of parliament
speed of four miles per hour.

"That depends upon circumstances: if we are found out, in all probability we shall not only
have our ride, but be paid into the bargain."

"With the coachman's whip, I presume?"

"Exactly."  And Timothy had hardly time to get the word out of his mouth, when flac, flac,
came the whip across our eyes--a little envious wretch, with his shirt hanging out of his trowsers,
having called out Cut behind!  Not wishing to have our faces, or our behinds cut any more,
we hastily descended, and reached the footpath, after having gained about three miles on the
road before we were discovered.

"That wasn't a bad lift, Japhet, and as for the whip I never mind that with corduroys.  And
now, Japhet, I'll tell you something; we must get into a waggon, if we can find one going down
the road, as soon as it is dark."

"But that will cost money, Tim."

"It's economy, I tell you; for a shilling, if you bargain, you may ride the whole night, and
if we stop at a public-house to sleep, we shall have to pay for our beds, as well as be obliged
to order something to eat, and pay dearer for it than if we buy what we want at cooks' shops."

"There is sense in what you say, Timothy; we will look out for a waggon."

"Oh! it's no use now--waggons are like black beetles, not only in shape but in habits, they
only travel by night--at least most of them do.  We are now coming into long dirty Brentford,
and I don't know how you feel, Japhet, but I find that walking wonderfully increases the appetite--
that's another reason why you should not walk when you can ride--for nothing."

"Well, I'm rather hungry myself; and dear me, how very good that piece of roast pork looks
in that window!"

"I agree with you--let's go in and make a bargain!"

We bought a good allowance for a shilling, and after sticking out for a greater proportion
of mustard than the woman said we were entitled to, and some salt, we wrapped it up in a piece
of paper, and continued our course, till we arrived at a baker's, where we purchased our bread;
and then taking up a position on a bench outside a public-house, called for a pot of beer,
and putting our provisions down before us, made a hearty, and, what made us more enjoy it,
an independent meal.  Having finished our pork and our porter, and refreshed ourselves, we
again started and walked till it was quite dark, when we felt so tired that we agreed to sit
down on our bundles and wait for the first waggon which passed.  We soon heard the jingling
of bells, and shortly afterwards its enormous towering bulk appeared between us and the sky.
We went up to the waggoner, who was mounted on a little pony, and asked him if he could give
two poor lads a lift, and how much he would charge us for the ride.

"How much can ye afford to give, measters? for there be others as poor as ye."  We replied
that we could give a shilling.  "Well, then, get up in God's name, and ride as long as you
will.  Get in behind."

"Are there many people in there already?" said I as I climbed up, and Timothy handed me the
bundles.

"Noa," replied the waggoner, "there be nobody but a mighty clever 'poticary or doctor, I can't
tell which; but he wears an uncommon queer hat, and he talk all sort of doctor stuff--and there
be his odd man and his odd boy; that be all, and there be plenty of room, and plenty o' clean
stra'."

After this intimation we climbed up, and gained a situation in the rear of the waggon under
the cloth.  As the waggoner said, there was plenty of room, and we nestled into the straw without
coming into contact with the other travellers.  Not feeling any inclination to sleep, Timothy
and I entered into conversation, sotto voce, and had continued for more than half an hour,
supposing by their silence, that the other occupants of the waggon were asleep, when we were
interrupted by a voice clear and sonorous as a bell.

"It would appear that you are wanderers, young men, and journey you know not whither.  Birds
seek their nests when the night falls--beasts hasten to their lairs--man bolts his door.  `Propria
quae maribus,' as Herodotus hath it; which, when translated, means, that `such is the nature
of mankind.' `Tribuuntur mascula dicas,' `Tell me your troubles,' as Homer says."

I was very much surprised at this address--my knowledge of the language told me immediately
that the quotations were out of the Latin grammar, and that all his learning was pretence;
still there was a novelty of style which amused me, and at the same time gave me an idea that
the speaker was an uncommon personage.  I gave Timothy a nudge, and then replied--

"You have guessed right, most learned sir; we are, as you say, wanderers seeking our fortunes,
and trust yet to find them--still we have a weary journey before us.  `Haustus hora somni sumendum,'
as Aristotle hath it; which I need not translate to so learned a person as yourself."

"Nay, indeed, there is no occasion; yet am I pleased to meet with one who hath scholarship,"
replied the other.  "Have you also a knowledge of the Greek?"

"No, I pretend not to Greek."

"It is a pity that thou hast it not, for thou wouldst delight to commune with the ancients.
Aesculapius hath these words--`Asholder--offmotton accapon--pasti--venison,'--which I will
translate for thee--`We often find what we seek when we least expect it.'  May it be so with
you, my friend.  Where have you been educated? and what has been your profession?"

I thought I risked little in telling, so I replied, that I had been brought up as a surgeon
and apothecary, and had been educated at a foundation school.

"'Tis well," replied he; "you have then commenced your studies in my glorious profession; still,
have you much to learn; years of toil, under a great master, can only enable you to benefit
mankind as I have done, and years of hardship and of danger must be added thereunto, to afford
you the means.  There are many hidden secrets.  `Ut sunt Divorum, Mars, Bacchus, Apollo, Virorum,'--many
parts of the globe to traverse, `Ut Cato, Virgilius, fluviorum, ut Tibris, Orontes.'  All these
have I visited, and many more.  Even now do I journey to obtain more of my invaluable medicine,
gathered on the highest Andes, when the moon is in her perigee.  There I shall remain for months
among the clouds, looking down upon the great plain of Mexico, which shall appear no larger
than the head of a pin, where the voice of man is heard not.  `Vocito, vocitas, vocitavi,'
bending for months towards the earth.  `As in presenti,' suffering with the cold--`frico quod
fricui dat,' as Eusebius hath it.  Soon shall I be borne away by the howling winds towards
the New World, where I can obtain more of the wonderful medicine, which I may say never yet
hath failed me, and which nothing but love towards my race induces me to gather at such pains
and risk."

"Indeed, sir," replied I, amused with his imposition, "I should like to accompany you--for,
as Josephus says most truly, `Capiat pilulae duae post prandium.'  Travel is, indeed, a most
delightful occupation, and I would like to run over the whole world."

"And I would like to follow you," interrupted Timothy.  "I suspect we have commenced our grand
tour already--three miles behind a hackney-coach--ten on foot, and about two, I should think,
in this waggon.  But as Cophagus says, `Cochlearija crash many summendush,' which means, `There
are ups and downs in this world.'"

"Hah!" exclaimed our companion.  "He, also, has the rudiments."

"Nay, I hope I've done with the Rudimans," replied Timothy.

"Is he your follower?" inquired the man.

"That very much depends upon who walks first," replied Timothy, "but whether or no--we hunt
in couples."

"I understand--you are companions.  `Concordat cum nominativo numero et persona.'  Tell me,
can you roll pills, can you use the pestle and the mortar, handle the scapula, and mix ingredients?"

I replied, that of course I knew my profession.

"Well, then, as we have still some hours of night, let us now obtain some rest.  In the morning,
when the sun hath introduced us to each other, I may then judge from your countenances whether
it is likely that we may be better acquainted.  Night is the time for repose, as Quintus Curtius
says, `Custos, bos, fur atque sacerdos.'  Sleep was made for all--my friends, good night."

PART ONE, CHAPTER NINE.

IN WHICH THE ADVENTURES IN THE WAGGON ARE CONTINUED, AND WE BECOME MORE PUZZLED WITH OUR NEW
COMPANIONS--WE LEAVE OFF TALKING LATIN, AND ENTER INTO AN ENGAGEMENT.

Timothy and I took his advice, and were soon fast asleep.

I was awakened the next morning by feeling a hand in my trowser's pocket.  I seized it, and
held it fast.

"Now just let go my hand, will you?" cried a lachrymal voice.

I jumped up--it was broad daylight, and looked at the human frame to which the hand was an
appendix.  It was a very spare, awkwardly-built form of a young man, apparently about twenty
years old, but without the least sign of manhood on his chin.  His face was cadaverous, with
large goggling eyes, high cheek bones, hair long and ragged, reminding me of a rat's nest,
thin lips, and ears large almost as an elephant's.  A more woe-begone wretch in appearance
I never beheld, and I continued to look at him with surprise.  He repeated his words with an
idiotical expression, "Just let go my hand, can't you?"

"What business had your hand in my pocket?" replied I, angrily.

"I was feeling for my pocket handkerchief," replied the young man.  "I always keeps it in my
breeches' pocket."

"But not in your neighbour's, I presume?"

"My neighbour's!" replied he, with a vacant stare.  "Well, so it is, I see now--I thought it
was my own."

I released his hand; he immediately put it into his own pocket, and drew out his handkerchief,
if the rag deserved the appellation.

"There," said he, "I told you I put it in that pocket--I always do."

"And pray who are you?" said I, as I looked at his dress, which was a pair of loose white Turkish
trowsers, and an old spangled jacket.

"Me! why, I'm the fool."

"More knave than fool, I expect," replied I, still much puzzled with his strange appearance
and dress.

"Nay, there you mistake," said the voice of last night.  "He is not only a fool by profession,
but one by nature.  It is a half-witted creature, who serves me when I would attract the people.
Strange, in this world, that wisdom may cry in the streets without being noticed, yet folly
will always command a crowd."

During this address I turned my eyes upon the speaker.  He was an elderly-looking person, with
white hair, dressed in a suit of black, ruffles and frill.  His eyes were brilliant, but the
remainder of his face it was difficult to decipher, as it was evidently painted, and the night's
jumbling in the waggon had so smeared it, that it appeared of almost every colour in the rainbow.
On one side of him lay a large three-cornered cocked hat, on the other, a little lump of a
boy, rolled up in the straw like a marmot, and still sound asleep.  Timothy looked at me, and
when he caught my eye, burst out into a laugh.

"You laugh at my appearance, I presume," said the old man, mildly.

"I do in truth," replied Timothy.  "I never saw one like you before, and I dare say never shall
again."

"That is possible; yet probably if you meet me again you would not know me."

"Among a hundred thousand," replied Timothy, with increased mirth.

"We shall see, perhaps," replied the quack doctor, for such the reader must have already ascertained
to be his profession; "but the waggon has stopped, and the driver will bait his horses.  If
inclined to eat, now is your time.  Come, Jumbo, get up; Philotas, waken him, and follow me."

Philotas, for so was the fool styled by his master, twisted up some straw, and stuffed the
end of it into Jumbo's mouth.  "Now Jumbo will think he has got something to eat.  I always
wake him that way," observed the fool, grinning at us.

It certainly, as might be expected, did waken Jumbo, who uncoiled himself, rubbed his eyes,
stared at the tilt of the waggon, then at us, and without saying a word, rolled himself out
after the fool.  Timothy and I followed.  We found the doctor bargaining for some bread and
bacon, his strange appearance exciting much amusement, and inducing the people to let him have
a better bargain than perhaps otherwise they would have done.  He gave a part of the refreshment
to the boy and the fool, and walked out of the tap-room with his own share.  Timothy and I
went to the pump, and had a good refreshing wash, and then for a shilling were permitted to
make a very hearty breakfast.  The waggon having remained about an hour, the driver gave as
notice of his departure; but the doctor was nowhere to be found.  After a little delay, the
waggoner drove off, cursing him for a bilk, and vowing that he'd never have any more to do
with a "lamed man."  In the mean time Timothy and I had taken our seats in the waggon, in company
with the fool, and Master Jumbo.  We commenced a conversation with the former, and soon found
out, as the doctor had asserted, that he really was an idiot, so much so that it was painful
to converse with him.  As for the latter, he had coiled himself away to take a little more
sleep.  I forgot to mention, that the boy was dressed much in the same way as the fool, in
an old spangled jacket, and dirty white trowsers.  For about an hour Timothy and I conversed,
remarking upon the strange disappearance of the doctor, especially as he had given us hopes
of employing us; in accepting which offer, if ever it should be made, we had not made up our
minds, when we were interrupted with a voice crying out, "Hillo, my man, can you give a chap
a lift as far as Reading, for a shilling?"

"Ay, get up, and welcome," replied the waggoner.

The waggon did not stop, but in a moment or two the new passenger climbed in.  He was dressed
in a clean smock frock, neatly worked up the front, leather gaiters, and stout shoes; a bundle
and a stick were in his hand.  He smiled as he looked round upon the company, and showed a
beautiful set of teeth.  His face was dark, and sun-burnt, but very handsome, and his eyes
as black as coals, and as brilliant as gas. "Heh! player folk--I've a notion," said he, as
he sat down, looking at the doctor's attendants, and laughing at us.  "Have you come far, gentlemen?"
continued he.

"From London," was my reply.

"How do the crops look up above, for down here the turnips seem to have failed altogether?
Dry seasons won't do for turnips."

I replied that I really could not satisfy him on that point, as it was dark when we passed.

"Very true--I had forgotten that," replied he.  "However, the barleys look well; but perhaps
you don't understand farming?"

I replied in the negative and the conversation was kept up for two or three hours, in the course
of which I mentioned the quack doctor, and his strange departure.

"That is the fellow who cured so many people at --," replied he; and the conversation then
turned upon his profession and mode of life, which Timothy and I agreed must be very amusing.
"We shall meet him again, I dare say," replied the man.  "Would you know him?"

"I think so, indeed," replied Timothy, laughing.

"Yes, and so you would think that you would know a guinea from a halfpenny, if I put it into
your hands," replied the man.  "I do not wish to lay a bet, and win your money; but I tell
you, that I will put either the one or the other into each of your hands, and if you hold it
fast for one minute, and shut your eyes during that time, you will not be able to tell me which
it is that you have in it."

"That I am sure I would," replied Tim; and I made the same assertion.

"Well, I was taken in that way at a fair, and lost ten shillings by the wager; now, we'll try
whether you can tell or not."  He took out some money from his pocket, which he selected without
our seeing it, put a coin into the hand of each of us, closing our fists over it, "and now,"
said he, "keep your eyes shut for a minute."

We did so, and a second or two afterwards we heard a voice which we instantly recognised. 
"Nay, but it was wrong to leave me on the way-side thus, having agreed to pay the sum demanded.
At my age one walketh not without fatigue, `Excipenda tamen quaedam sunt urbium,' as Philostratus
says, meaning, `That old limbs lose their activity, and seek the help of a crutch.'"

"There's the doctor," cried Timothy, with his eyes still shut.

"Now open your eyes," said the man, "and tell me, before you open your hand, what there is in it."

"A halfpenny in mine," said Tim.

"A guinea in mine," replied I.

We opened our hands, and they were empty.

"Where the devil is it?" exclaimed I, looking at Tim.

"And where the devil's the doctor?" replied he, looking round.

"The money is in the doctor's pocket," replied the man, smiling.

"Then where is the doctor's pocket?"

"Here," replied he, slapping his pocket, and looking significantly at us.  "I thought you were
certain of knowing him again.  About as certain as you were of telling the money in your hand."

He then, to our astonishment, imitated the doctor's voice, and quoted prosody, syntax, and
Latin.  Timothy and I were still in astonishment, when he continued, "If I had not found out
that you were in want of employ, and further, that your services would be useful to me, I should
not have made this discovery.  Do you now think that you know enough to enter into my service?
It is light work, and not bad pay; and now you may choose."

"I trust," said I, "that there is no dishonesty?"

"None that you need practise, if you are so scrupulous: perhaps your scruples may some day
be removed.  I make the most of my wares--every merchant does the same.  I practise upon the
folly of mankind--it is on that, that wise men live."

Timothy gave me a push, and nodded his head for me to give my consent. I reflected a few seconds,
and at last I extended my hand.  "I consent," replied I, "with the reservation I have made."

"You will not repent," said he; "and I will take your companion, not that I want him particularly,
but I do want you.  The fact is, I want a lad of gentlemanly address, and handsome appearance--with
the very knowledge you possess--and now we will say no more for the present. By-the-by, was
that real Latin of yours?"

"No," replied I, laughing; "you quoted the grammar, and I replied with medical prescriptions.
One was as good as the other."

"Quite--nay, better; for the school-boys may find me out, but not you. But now observe, when
we come to the next cross-road, we must get down-- at least, I expect so; but we shall know
in a minute."

In about the time he mentioned, a dark, gipsy-looking man looked into the waggon, and spoke
to our acquaintance in an unknown language.  He replied in the same, and the man disappeared.
We continued our route for about a quarter of an hour, when he got out, asked us to follow
him, and speaking a few words to the fool, which I did not hear, left him and the boy in the
waggon.  We paid our fare, took possession of our bundles, and followed our new companion for
a few minutes on the cross-road, when he stopped, and said, "I must now leave you, to prepare
for your reception into our fraternity; continue straight on this road until you arrive at
a lime-kiln, and wait there till I come."

He sprang over a stile, and took a direction verging at an angle from the road, forced his
way through a hedge, and disappeared from our sight.  "Upon my word, Timothy," said I, "I hardly
know what to say to this.  Have we done right in trusting to this man, who, I am afraid, is
a great rogue?  I do not much like mixing with these gipsy people, for such I am sure he belongs
to."

"I really, do not see how we can do better," replied Timothy.  "The world is all before us,
and we must force our own way through it.  As for his being a quack doctor, I see no great
harm in that.  People put their faith in nostrums more than they do in regular medicines; and
it is well known that quack medicines, as they call them, cure as often as others, merely for
that very reason."

"Very true, Timothy; the mind once at ease, the body soon recovers, and faith, even in quack
medicines, will often make people whole; but do you think that he does no more than impose
upon people in that way?"

"He may, or he may not; at all events, we need do no more, I suppose."

"I am not sure of that; however, we shall see.  He says we may be useful to him, and I suppose
we shall be, or he would not have engaged us--we shall soon find out."

PART ONE, CHAPTER TEN.

IN WHICH THE READER IS INTRODUCED TO SEVERAL NEW AQUAINTANCES, AND ALL CONNECTED WITH THEM,
EXCEPT BIRTH AND PARENTAGE, WHICH APPEARS TO BE THE ONE THING WANTING THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE
OF THIS WORK.

By this time we had arrived at the lime-kiln to which we had been directed, and we sat down
on our bundles, chatting for about five minutes, when our new acquaintance made his appearance,
with something in his hand, tied up in a handkerchief.

"You may as well put your coats into your bundles, and put on these frocks," said he; "you
will appear better among us, and be better received, for there is a gathering now, and some
of them are queer customers.  However, you have nothing to fear; when once you are with my
wife and me, you are quite safe; her little finger would protect you from five hundred."

"Your wife! who, then, is she?" inquired I, as I put my head through the smock frock.

"She is a great personage among the gipsies.  She is, by descent, one of the heads of the tribe,
and none dare to disobey her."

"And you--are you a gipsy?"

"No, and yes.  By birth I am not, but by choice, and marriage, I am admitted; but I was not
born under a hedge, I can assure you, although I very often pass a night there now--that is,
when I am domestic; but do not think that you are to remain long here; we shall leave in a
few days, and may not meet the tribe again for months, although you may see my own family occasionally.
I did not ask you to join me to pass a gipsy's life--no, no, we must be stirring and active.
Come, we are now close to them.  Do not speak as you pass the huts, until you have entered
mine.  Then you may do as you please."

We turned short round, passed through a gap in the hedge, and found ourselves on a small retired
piece of common, which was studded with about twenty or thirty low gipsy huts.  The fires were
alight and provisions apparently cooking.  We passed by nine or ten, and obeyed our guide's
injunctions to keep silence.  At last we stopped, and perceived ourselves to be standing by
the fool, who was dressed like us, in a smock frock, and Mr Jumbo, who was very busy making
the pot boil, blowing at the sticks underneath till he was black in the face.  Several of the
men passed near us, and examined us with no very pleasant expression of countenance; and we
were not sorry to see our conductor, who had gone into the hut, return, followed by a woman,
to whom he was speaking in the language of the tribe.  "Nattee bids you welcome," said he,
as she approached.

Never in my life will the remembrance of the first appearance of Nattee, and the effect it
had upon me, be erased from my memory.  She was tall, too tall, had it not been for the perfect
symmetry of her form.  Her face of a clear olive, and oval in shape; her eyes jetty black;
nose straight, and beautifully formed; mouth small, thin lips, with a slight curl of disdain,
and pearly teeth.  I never beheld a woman of so commanding a presence.  Her feet were bare,
but very small, as well as her hands.  On her fingers she wore many rings, of a curious old
setting, and a piece of gold hung on her forehead, where the hair was parted.  She looked at
us, touched her high forehead with the ends of her fingers, and waving her hand gracefully,
said, in a soft voice, "You are welcome," and then turned to her husband, speaking to him in
her own language, until by degrees they separated from us in earnest conversation.

She returned to us after a short time, without her husband, and said, in a voice, the notes
of which were indeed soft, but the delivery of the words was most determined; "I have said
that you are welcome; sit down, therefore, and share with us--fear nothing, you have no cause
to fear. Be faithful, then, while you serve him; and when you would quit us, say so, and receive
your leave to depart; but if you attempt to desert us without permission, then we shall suspect
that you are our enemies, and treat you accordingly.  There is your lodging while here," continued
she, pointing to another hut.  "There is but one child with you, his boy (pointing to Jumbo),
who can lie at your feet.  And now join us as friends.  Fleta, where are you?"

A soft voice answered from the tent of Nattee, and soon afterwards came out a little girl,
of about eleven years old.  The appearance of this child was a new source of interest.  She
was a little fairy figure, with a skin as white as the driven snow--light auburn hair, and
large blue eyes; her dress was scanty, and showed a large portion of her taper legs.  She hastened
to Nattee, and folding her arms across her breast, stood still, saying meekly, "I am here."

"Know these as friends, Fleta.  Send that lazy Num (this was Philotas, the fool,) for more
wood, and see that Jumbo tends the fire."

Nattee smiled, and left us.  I observed she went to where forty or fifty of the tribe were
assembled, in earnest discourse.  She took her seat with them, and marked deference was paid
to her.  In the mean time Jumbo had blown up a brisk fire; we were employed by Fleta in shredding
vegetables, which she threw into the boiling kettle.  Num appeared with more fuel, and at last
there was nothing more to do.  Fleta sat down by us, and parting her long hair, which had fallen
over her eyes, looked us both in the face.

"Who gave you that name, Fleta?" inquired I.

"They gave it me," replied she.

"And who are they?"

"Nattee, and Melchior, her husband."

"But you are not their daughter?"

"No, I am not--that is, I believe not."

The little girl stopped short, as if assured that she had said too much, cast her eyes down
on the ground, and folded her arms, so that her hands rested on each opposite shoulder.

Timothy whispered to me, "She must have been stolen, depend upon it."

"Silence," said I.

The little girl overheard him, and looking at him, put her finger across her mouth, looking
to where Num and Jumbo were sitting.  I felt an interest for this child before I had been an
hour in her company; she was so graceful, so feminine, so mournful in the expression of her
countenance.  That she was under restraint was evident; but still she did not appear to be
actuated by fear.  Nattee was very kind to her, and the child did not seem to be more reserved
towards her than to others; her mournful, pensive look, was perhaps inherent to her nature.
It was not until long after our first acquaintance that I ever saw a smile upon her features.
Shortly after this little conversation, Nattee returned, walking with all the grace and dignity
of a queen.  Her husband, or Melchior, as I shall in future call him, soon joined us, and we
sat down to our repast, which was excellent.  It was composed of almost everything; sometimes
I found myself busy with the wing of a fowl, at another, the leg of a rabbit--then a piece
of mutton, or other flesh and fowl, which I could hardly distinguish.  To these were added
every sort of vegetable, among which potatoes predominated, forming a sort of stew, which an
epicure might have praised.  I had a long conversation with Melchior in the evening; and, not
to weary the reader, I shall now proceed to state all that I then and subsequently gathered
from him and others, relative to the parties with whom we were associating.

Melchior would not state who and what he was previous to his having joined the fraternity of
gipsies; that he was not of humble birth, and that he had, when young, quitted his friends
out of love for Nattee, or from some other causes not to be revealed, he led me to surmise.
He had been many years in company with the tribe, and although, as one received into it, he
did not stand so high in rank and estimation as his wife, still, from his marriage with Nattee,
and his own peculiar qualifications and dexterity, he was almost as absolute as she was.

Melchior and Nattee were supposed to be the most wealthy of all the gipsies, and, at the same
time, they were the most liberal of their wealth.  Melchior, it appeared, gained money in three
different characters; as a quack doctor, the character in which we first saw him; secondly,
as a juggler, in which art he was most expert; and, thirdly, as a fortune-teller, and wise man.

Nattee, as I before mentioned, was of very high rank, or caste, in her tribe.  At her first
espousal of Melchior she lost much of her influence, as it was considered a degradation; but
she was then very young, and must have been most beautiful.  The talents of Melchior, and her
own spirit, however, soon enabled her to regain, and even add still more to, her power and
consideration among the tribe; and it was incredible to what extent, with the means which she
possessed, this power was augmented.

Melchior had no children by his marriage, and, as far as I could judge from the few words which
would escape from the lips of Nattee, she did not wish for any, as the race would not be considered
pure.  The subdivision of the tribe which followed Nattee consisted of about forty men, women,
and children.  These were ruled by her during the absence of her husband, who alternately assumed
different characters, as suited his purpose; but in whatever town Melchior might happen to
be, Nattee and her tribe were never far off, and always encamped within communication.

I ventured to question Melchior about the little Fleta; and he stated that she was the child
of a soldier's wife, who had been brought to bed, and died a few hours afterwards; that, at
the time, she was on her way to join her husband, and had been taken ill on the road--had been
assisted by Nattee and her companions, as far as they were able--had been buried by them, and
that the child had been reared in the camp.

In time, the little girl became very intimate, and very partial to me. There was a fine called the" Moreover Fine," which was increased from five
shillings to nine shillings, and the Company voted to dispose of
any sum not exceeding£ 5" when less than 2/ 3 of the members are
met."

The next month was worse, again no warning and only four came. The Electric fluid seems to have
been attracted by the spire of the Steeple, which-- running up from the centre of a four- sided roof
rising in the form of a pyramid-- was rapidly conducted by means of a large quantity of iron
used for the security of the timbers, to the shingles and other combustible
materials of three of the corners of the building, almost directly
under the eave. But it had been so ordered by Infinite Wisdom no doubt,
that, for the first Sabbath in more than two years, the Church was
closed during the whole of that day-- the Pastor having been providentially
called away to supply the pulpit of a sick brother in the neighboring
city of Georgetown.

Six shillings each was collected from the members to help make up the deficiency, and a committee was appointed
to wait upon the county court with a petition requesting ground
sufficient for building an enginehouse upon the courthouse lot. A
period of two hours had not elapsed from the commencement of the
conflagration, before the whole edifice except the walls, was involved
in one shapeless in one minute and a half and they were worked by
twenty- four, twenty- two and eighteen or twenty men, respectively,
and varied in price accordingly.

In 1862 the Civil War disrupted the Church. The house had been standing
for more than 63 years-- the steeple and galleries had been built somewhat
later-- and except the Episcopal church on Washington Street, generally
known by the name of" Christ' s Church"-- was the oldest of all the
ten places of religious worship in town. For several years, there had
been an Insurance effected on the building to the amount of five thousand
dollars-- two thousand five hundred on each of the Offices in town.
To the congregation, no loss besides the house, was more deeply deplored
than that of the large and richly toned Organ.

The walls and part of the galleries remained intact, Dr. Muir' s tablet
was uninjured, many windows were not broken, and the organ, at first thought
destroyed, was very little injured; it remains in use to this day, and likewise
the old clock. mass of smoking ruin, presenting a scene, as desolating and
repulsive to the common citizen, as it was tearful and heart- rending
to the church and congregation.

They contained 190, 170 and 160 gallons of water, respectively, which
they discharged For many years its bell was the only Church- going
signal within the limits of the corporation; and owing to this circumstance,
connected with its peculiarly clear and inviting tones, the destruction
of it-- which was caused by its fall from so lofty an eminence-- seemed
the occasion of regrets to the public at large, more immediately expressed
than for the edifice itself.

But it so happened in providence, that one of these Policies, which
had expired about four or five months previous, had never been renewed;--
so that with the exception of twenty- five hundred dollars, the loss
to the congregation was total. The minutes of the committee record
the motion of appreciation to the owners. The calamity took place
at a time when on ordinary occasions, some individuals would have been
in the house-- as it was so near the hour of the afternoon' s service,--
and had that been the case now, there is much reason to fear, that
it would have been attended, if not with loss of life, at any rate
with serious injury to not a few.

There entirely inaccesible for some minutes to any efforts which could be made use of for the purpose
of quenching it, and continually fed by the qualities of the matter with which its work of
desolation, with a rapidity which was truly awful and appalling. So that no individual was in
the house, and no serious injury occurred to any individual during
the progress of the fire-- and thus, while there is much to produce
sadness and to call for deep humiliation before God, the Session would
feel, that there is still something to awaken emotions of gratitude and
praise; and that however severely the loss may Music, the difficulty
of replacing it by another, and the sacred uses to which it was applied,
but equally because it had been presented by a few venerated and much
esteemed individuals, most of whom are now sleeping in the dust.

However, the damage was terrific and there was only a nominal insurance
to cover the loss.

The following July the Company ordered the tobacco sold. Members were to be provided with two buckets,
a brown linen or oznaburg bag containing at least four yards of material, and a wicker basket as
soon as possible after admittance. The amount in the treasury did
cover the cost of restoration, and on April 5, 1836, it was"

Resolved, That the congregation of the Church be called to meet at the
Lecture room on Friday evening next at 1/ 2 past 7 o' clock, to decide
permanently on the location of the Church."[ 131] In November the
committee minutes recorded that"

The location of the Church was permanently fixed on the old site,"[ 132] and on February 7, 1837,"
Mr. Smith, from the committee appointed to consult on the propriety of
lowering the gallery, reported that it was thought to be inexpedient
to do so."[ 133] The final notation on the new church read:" It was,
on Motion Resolved that our New house of worship, be solemnly Dedicated
to the Worship of Almighty God on the last Sabbath of July next--
it being on that day two years before, that our former house of worship
was consumed by fire...."[ 134] It is distressing to think of the
eighteenth century interior destroyed on that hot afternoon of July
1835, but we must be grateful for what the rebuilders of 1837 preserved
as an outstanding example of Georgian architecture.

It was incorporated into the articles that the engine was to be worked
for two hours every Monday of the meeting, and anyone neglecting to attend
and work the engine was penalized nine pence. Besides funds in cash,
the Company had 1,000 pounds of tobacco on hand. Dr. Harrison was a
delicate man and for a long time his health was far from good. During the
Battle of Bull Run, it was used as a hospital for wounded soldiers,
and from time to time it was used by other faiths, including a Negro
Baptist congregation.

The firm of Lambert& McKenzie offered Dr. Harrison a free passage
to and from the Barbados on the barque Archibald Gracie. Yet there was
one circumstance which ought to be recorded with emotions of adoring
gratitude. Mr. Robert Bell of the old printing firm of that name made
a gift of letter paper to Dr. Harrison every Christmas for many years.

Dr. Harrison' s lamentations, while justified, were not for complete demolition. He saw at least three
after the first of these communications, for that many letters exist containing
the same mournful allusion. With the exception of the lamps, a venerable
clock in front of the Gallery opposite, the pulpit, the books and
cushions, a part of the windows, the Stoves, a large proportion of
the pipes of a Splendid Organ which was split open with an axe for
that purpose, and some of the plank broken from the pews-- all was
destroyed; and but for the real and practical sympathy of many of
our esteemed citizens in braving dangers of no common magnitude, a
like destruction had been 1848 he was so wretched that it was recommended
he go south for his health.

Neglected, uncared for, the prey of thieves and vandals, the doors
were finally closed.

Trustees were responsible for the removal of property, and the entire company was obliged to wear"
at times of fire" by way of distinction, black caps with white fronts with letters thereon designating
their company. Here John Carlyle sleeps. 6----------£ 84.10. 8 Insurance on£ 76@ 2- 1/ 2pc 1.18
Freight from London 6. By 1796 such confusion reigned at fires that the three companies associated
themselves together to make and sustain certain plans and rules for the management of fires. Their
dust makes of this soil a part of Old Scotland.

In May
1789, Dr. William Brown was elected treasurer to succeed William Hartshorne.
The clerk for this meeting was John Dalton; members served as clerks in rotation.
The next page is numbered 9 and contains the minutes for the April meeting.
How and with what means the raging holocausts were controlled is
revealed in an old, mutilated, leather- bound minute book of the Sun
Fire Company.[ 135] The first entry in this treasure is part of the damaged
record for the March meeting in 1775. This is evidence that the Company
was formed in 1774 between August and December. Doctor Dick stated
that he lost his fire bucket at the fire at William Herbert' s house,
then occupied by Edmund Edmunds, and the treasurer reimbursed the
good Doctor eighteen shillings on October 24, 1796. To prevent and
control such catastrophes the gentlemen of the town formed themselves
into several companies of fire person. Absent members were fined one
shilling three pence.[ silver] was found to be inadequate for the purpose.
These were to be hung up in good order and always in place.

It seems to have
arrived in April 1794. The Company took some several months to acquire
proper ladders and hooks. In July specific reference is made to the Friendship
Fire Company and the Relief Fire Company. Mason manufactured three
engines.

By August the ladders had been completed by Thomas Flemming, and John Dalton was ordered to procure locks with
proper staples for securing the ladders under the" piazza of the
Court House."

At the April meeting in 1777, the" Succeeding Clerk is desired to warn the Company to meet next
month at the Ball Room and to Desire the Treasurer to purchase Ten Gallons of Spirits, and one
Loaf of Sugar Candles etc. The Clerk to have the I Ball Room cleaned
and put in order." Among these were Captain Valentine Peirs, Captain John Allison,
Colonel John Fitzgerald and J. Windsor Brown.

This was Alexandria' s first alarm system! Dr. Elias Harrison died in 1863 after forty- three years of
ministering to his congregation and with his death the Church ceased
to function and its congregation scattered.

The light begins to break-- at the first hint of fire the Company member
must, at the fastest possible speed, put lighted candles in the front
windows of his dwelling.

The next clerk was" desired to Enquire of the several members if they had candles at their windows and to collect
Fines from such of them as had not." Unfortunately the clerks took for granted that everybody knew when
there had been a fire and rarely are these important events mentioned in the minutes. The only tranquil
occupation was that of the" sentinels" who kept watch over goods
removed from the conflagration wherever such goods were deposited.

The member
then dashed for four yards of material in an oznaburg bag, two leather
fire buckets( they each weighed as much as a saddle) and a wicker
basket and, without stopping, he raced to the fire, where he either
pumped water, formed spectators in ranks for passing buckets, removed
goods from burning houses in his bag or basket, climbed ladders or
pulled down adjoining houses when necessary; and last but not least
watched to" prevent evil minded persons from plundering sufferers."

Preparatory to its reception, officers were appointed for its direction. There was some reward now
and then for their efforts. As the Revolutionary War got under way many of the members were excused,"
being frequently abroad on the Servis of Their Country." Alas, the members were either not warned or invited
for only six showed up. It was just at the close of a refreshing shower
of rain, attended as is usual at this season of the year, with peals of
thunder and flashes of vivid lightening. The clerk was reimbursed" one
pound Two Shillings for white washing and cleaning the Ball Room."

The clerk was ordered to warn again and provide what spirit, sugar and candles may be necessary for the
next meeting and" that the same be held in the Town House."

The April minutes in 1786 contain the invoice for the engine: To
a Fire Engine Imported from London with 2 dozen buckets Amt p. invoice£
72.14 Commission on shipping D^ o-- 5% 3.12.

This melancholly event took place about a quarter before three o'
clock in the afternoon-- a few minutes previously to the time ordinarily
set apart for the ringing of the bell for the exercises of Public
Worship.

In 1853 the front vestibule was constructed.

Part of the congregation wished a new building site and it was given
some thought, but the" siller" On Monday, October 27, 1783, nine years after
the founding of the Company, the succeeding clerk is ordered to give
notice that at the next meeting a proposal will be made to dispose
of the money in stock in the purchase of an engine.

Moreover William Herbert, Dennis Ramsay and Isaac Roberdeau were charged with getting the engine to fires. It
took two years for the engine to arrive. What a spectacular sight a fire in Alexandria presented
when one remembers the elegant dress of the day; short clothes, elaborate
jackets or vests, ruffled linen, full skirted coats, perukes, queues
braided and beribboned, powdered heads in three- cornered hats, silken
and white hose, buckled shoes; and that fires generally occurred in
winter upon the coldest days and in the worst weather, often at night,
and that these firemen were the élite of the town, the serious, responsible
merchants, doctors, masters, ship captains and owners.

Nine stalwart members were chosen, and they were ordered to serve. This was granted and the
enginehouse was built on Fairfax Street" adjoining the school House."

4----------£
119.10.10. Two keys were ordered labeled" Sun Fire Company." On February 22, 1779, a resolution was
passed to fine the clerk refusing or neglecting his duty forty- two shillings, and absent members
three shillings. Nearby lies the tomb of William Hunter, founder of St. Andrew' the fate of these also. In January
1777," William Wilson lost a bucket at the late fire" and he was
authorized to purchase another at the Company' s expense; Robert Adam,
who was clerk, forgot to" warn the Company and was fined Ten Shillings";
several members neglected to put up lights when the late fire happened
at Zael Cooper' s and the fine was two shillings.

In s Society, and that beloved friend and physician of General Washington, Dr. James Craik. Cofounder
and trustee of Alexandria in 1748; son- in- law to Colonel William Fairfax; brother- in- law to Lawrence Washington;
commissary of the Virginia forces under Braddock in 1755; collector of customs on the South Potomac,
and major in the Revolution; a Scottish gentleman, heir to a title,
he cast his fate with the colonies.

8 Exchange 40 pc^ 1 33.16. Upon these gentlemen fell the unpleasant task of" noticing remisness in the members
and others and being obliged to give information to their respective
companies whenever such shameful instances occured to their observation."

6.10 Freight from Baltimore 1. The members were called on for a dollar each
for this purpose and it was later necessary to borrow another dollar.

In 1843 the tower was added: it was in the approximate location that the
pulpit had stood for many years.

Two months later, undaunted by the recent unpleasantness, the treasurer
was requested to" Import from London on account of this Company a fire
engine value from seventy to eighty pounds sterling."

About this time( 1788) the Virginia Assembly passed an act authorizing
the different towns in the state to elect fire companies. Chapter 12 Presenting
The Sun Fire Company In the eighteenth century calamities visited, and of these
nothing was more feared than fire. In order that these gentlemen be more
conspicuous( distinguished was the word) it was decided to" elevate
their voices above the ordinary clamour on such occasions," each of
them in action was ordered to carry in his hand a" speaking trumpet
nine months.

In a space of time too brief almost to be be felt, yet it has not been
unattended with significant expressions of kindness and regard. In
his latter years the Doctor in thanking Mr. Bell always said that
he never expected to see another Christmas.

In the minutes of the trustees, the fact is stated that the roof and cupola burned and fell in, destroying much
of the interior woodwork, but not all. Not only because of its superior
worth as an Instrument of deemed credible by such as were not witnesses
of the sublime and fearful spectacle, the entire roof exhibited to
the immense multitude gathered around to mingle their sympathies and
tender their assistance, nothing but one mighty map of living fire--
curling in rapid and terrific volumes around the still suspended tho
tottering steeple; and smiling at every effort towards extinction,
save that of Him-- that Dread and Aweful Being, by whom the flame
had been enkindled, painted white, and not less than three feet long."

In April the" propriety of purchasing an Engine" was discussed and at the June meeting it was
agreed to postpone the matter. In May 1793, the Sun Company was dissatisfied with the English
engine, and they began correspondence with a Mr. Mason of Philadelphia with the intention of selling the
old engine and acquiring a new one. Three ladders were then finished but most of the buckets were at the
painters being marked with owners' names and numbers. Our holy and
beautiful house where our fathers praised the Lord-- to use the language
of the Prophet,-- was thus burned up with fire; and all our pleasant
things laid waste.

The Sun Fire Company purchased the smallest motor for£ 125. There was a forfeiture
of money for any neglect.

Later
the old engine" with the suction pipe" forgetting was thoroughly repaired
by Mason and returned to the Sun Fire Company. Ramsay, McKenzie,
Muir, Vowell, Harper, Hepburn and Balfour are among the names found
inscribed upon the old stones. It was decided to have three directors
or commanders, one chosen from each company, only one of whom was to act
at a time, who were to have control of the engines, fire hooks, ladders
and to be the judges of the expediency of pulling down adjacent buildings.
The first mention by the Sun of other fire companies in Alexandria
is in the minutes of February 28, 1791.

There were then chosen three subordinate directors who had immediate charge
of the engine under the commander, then four persons from each Company,
to be called regulators, who were to" be diligent in searching for the most
convenient source of water, in forming lanes for the supply of the engines,
and preventing the use of dirty puddle water."

Each company was to keep such an affair in the enginehouse. 2----------
118.

The cemetery lies between the Church and the manse. Moreover these companies
pledged themselves to" respect" the other companies when their property
was in danger from fire," in preference to persons who are members
of neither."

At this March 1775 meeting it was agreed to limit the number of the
Company to forty- five persons.

  But, although this plan of Melchior's was, for the first two or three days, very
expedient, yet, as it was not intended to last, Timothy, who remained with me at the inn, became
very intimate with the bar-maid, and obtained from her most of the particulars of her life.
I, also, from repeated conversations with the landlady, received information very important,
relative to herself and many of the families in the town, but as the employment of Nattee was
for an ulterior object, we contented ourselves with gaining all the information we could before
we proceeded further. After we had been there a week, and the fame of the gipsy woman had been
marvellously increased--many things having been asserted of her which were indeed truly improbable--Melchior
agreed that Timothy should persuade the bar-maid to try if the gipsy woman would tell her fortune:
the girl, with some trepidation agreed, but at the same time, expecting to be refused, consented
to walk with him over the common.  Timothy advised her to pretend to pick up a sixpence when
near to Nattee, and ask her if it did not belong to her; and the bar-maid acted upon his suggestions,
having just before that quitted the arm of Timothy, who had conducted her.

"Did you drop a sixpence?  I have picked up one," said the girl, trembling with fear as she
addressed Nattee.

"Child," replied Nattee, who was prepared, "I have neither dropped a sixpence nor have you
found one--but never mind that, I know that which you wish, and I know who you are.  Now what
would you with me?  Is it to inquire whether the landlord and landlady of the Golden Lion intend
to keep you in their service?"

"No," replied this girl, frightened at what she heard; "not to inquire that, but to ask what
my fortune will be?"

"Open your palm, pretty maid, and I will tell you.  Hah!  I see that you were born in the West--your
father is dead--your mother is in service-- and let me see,--you have a brother at sea--now
in the West Indies."

At this intelligence, all of which, as may be supposed, had been gathered by us, the poor girl
was so frightened that she fell down in a swoon, and Timothy carried her off.  When she was
taken home to the inn, she was so ill that she was put into bed, and what she did say was so
incoherent, that, added to Timothy's narrative, the astonishment of the landlady and others
was beyond all bounds.  I tried very hard to bring the landlady, but she would not consent;
and now Nattee was pestered by people of higher condition, who wished to hear what she would
say.  Here Nattee's power were brought into play.  She would not refuse to see them, but would
not give answers till she had asked question and, as from us she had gleaned much general information,
so by making this knowledge appear in her questions to them, she made them believe she knew
more.  If a young person came to her, she would immediately ask the name--of that name she
had all the references acquired from us as to family and connexions.  Bearing upon them, she
would ask a few more, and then give them an abrupt dismissal.

This behaviour was put up with from one of her commanding presence, who refused money, and
treated those who accosted her as if she was their superior.  Many came again and again, telling
her all they knew, and acquainting her with every transaction of their life, to induce her
to prophesy, for such, she informed them, was the surest way to call the spirit upon her. 
By these means we obtained the secret history of the major part, that is, the wealthier part
of the town of --; and although the predictions of Nattee were seldom given, yet when given,
they were given with such perfect and apparent knowledge of the parties, that when she left,
which she did about six weeks after her first appearance, the whole town rang with accounts
of her wonderful powers.

It will appear strange that Melchior would not permit Nattee to reap a harvest, which might
have been great; but the fact was that he only allowed the seed to be sown that a greater harvest
might be gathered hereafter.  Nattee disappeared, the gipsies' tent was no longer on the common,
and the grass, which had been beaten down into a road by the feet of the frequent applicants
to her, was again permitted to spring up.  We also took our departure, and rejoined the camp
with Nattee, where we remained for a fortnight, to permit the remembrance of her to subside
a little--knowing that the appetite was alive, and would not be satisfied until it was appeased.

After that time Melchior, Timothy, and I, again set off for the town of --, and stopping at
a superior inn in another part of the town, dressed as travellers, that is, people who go about
the country for orders from the manufacturers, ordered our beds and supper in the coffee-room.
The conversation was soon turned upon the wonderful powers of Nattee, the gipsy.  "Nonsense,"
said Melchior, "she knows nothing.  I have heard of her.  But there's a man coming this way
(should he happen to pass through this town) who will surprise and frighten you.  No one knows
who he is.  He is named the Great Aristodemus.  He knows the past, the present, and the future.
He never looks at people's hands--he only looks you in the face, and woe be to them who tell
him a lie. Otherwise, he is good-tempered and obliging, and will tell what will come to pass,
and his predictions never have been known to fail.  They say that he is hundreds of years old,
and his hair is while as silver." At this information many expressed their doubts, and many
others vaunted the powers of the gipsy.  Melchior replied, "that all he knew was, that for
the sum of two guineas paid down, he had told him of a legacy left him of six hundred pounds,
which otherwise he would never have known of or received."  All the town of -- being quite
alive for fortune-telling, this new report gained wind, and after a week's sojourn, Melchior
thought that the attempt should be made.

PART ONE, CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

THE SEED HAVING BEEN CAREFULLY SOWN, WE NOW REAP A GOLDEN HARVEST--WE TELL EVERYONE WHAT THEY
KNEW BEFORE, AND WE ARE LOOKED UPON AS MOST MARVELLOUS BY MOST MARVELLOUS FOOLS.

We accordingly packed up and departed to another market town.  Timothy dressed in a sombre
suit of black, very much like an undertaker, was provided with a horse, with the following
directions: to proceed leisurely until he was within half a mile of the town of--, and then
to gallop in as fast as he could, stop at the best inn in the place, and order apartments for
the Great Aristodemus, who might be expected in half an hour.  Everything in this world depends
upon appearances, that is, when you intend to gull it; and as everyone in the town had heard
of the Great Aristodemus, so everyone was anxious to know something about him, and Timothy
was pestered with all manner of questions; but he declared that he was only his courier, and
could only tell what other people said; but then what other people said, by Timothy's account,
was very marvellous indeed.  Timothy had hardly time to secure the best rooms in the hotel,
when Melchior, dressed in a long flowing silk gown, with a wig of long white hair, a square
cap, and two or three gold chains hanging from his neck, certainly most admirably disguised,
and attended by me in the dress of a German student, a wig of long brown locks hanging down
my shoulders, made our appearance in a post-chaise and four, and drove up to the door of the
inn, at a pace which shook every house in the street, and occasioned every window to be tenanted
with one or more heads to ascertain the cause of this unusual occurrence, for it was not a
very great town, although once of importance; but the manufactures had been removed, and it
was occupied by those who had become independent by their own exertions, or by those of their
forefathers.

The door of the chaise was opened by the obsequious Timothy, who pushed away the ostlers and
waiters, as if unworthy to approach his master, and the Great Aristodemus made his appearance.
As he ascended the steps of the door, his passage was for a moment barred by one whose profession
Melchior well knew.  "Stand aside, exciseman!" said he, in a commanding voice.  "No one crosses
my path with impunity."  Astonished at hearing his profession thus mentioned, the exciseman,
who was the greatest bully in the town, slipped on one side with consternation, and all those
present lifted up their eyes and hands with astonishment.  The Great Aristodemus gained his
room, and shut his door; and I went out to pay for the chaise and order supper, while Timothy
and the porters were busy with our luggage, which was very considerable.

"My master will not see anyone," said I to the landlord: "he quits this town to-morrow, if
the letters arrive which he expects by the post; therefore, pray get rid of this crowd, and
let him be quiet, for he is very tired, having travelled one hundred and fifty miles since
the dawn of day."

When Tim and I had performed this duty, we joined Melchior in his room, leaving the news to
be circulated.  "This promises well," observed Melchior; "up to the present we have expended
much time and money; now we must see if we cannot recover it tenfold.  Japhet, you must take
an opportunity of going out again after supper, and make inquiries of the landlord what poor
people they have in the town, as I am very generous, and like to relieve them; you may observe,
that all the money offered to me for practising my art, I give away to the poor, having no
occasion for it."  This I did, and we then sat down to supper, and having unpacked our baggage,
went to bed, after locking the door of the room, and taking out the key.

The next morning we had everything in readiness, and as the letters, as the reader may suppose,
did not arrive by the post, we were obliged to remain, and the landlord ventured to hint to
me, that several people were anxious to consult my master.  I replied, that I would speak to
him, but it was necessary to caution those who came, that they must either offer gold--or nothing
at all.  I brought his consent to see one or two, but no more.  Now, although we had various
apparatus to use, when required, it was thought that the effect would be greater, if, in the
first instance, everything was simple.  Melchior, therefore, remained sitting at the table,
which was covered with a black cloth, worked with curious devices, and a book of hieroglyphics
before him, and an ivory wand, tipped with gold lying by the book.  Timothy standing at the
door, with a short Roman sword buckled round his belt, and I, in a respectful attitude, behind
the Great Aristodemus.

The first person who was admitted was the lady of the mayor of the town; nothing could be more
fortunate, as we had every information relative to her and her spouse, for people in high places
are always talked of. Aristodemus waved his hand, and I brought forward a chair in silence,
and motioned that she should be seated.  Aristodemus looked her in her face, and then turned
over several leaves, until he fixed upon a page, which he considered attentively.  "Mayoress
of--, what wouldst thou with me?"

She started, and turned pale.  "I would ask--"

"I know; thou wouldst ask many things, perhaps, had I time to listen. Amongst others thou wouldst
ask if there is any chance of thy giving an heir to thy husband.  Is it not so?"

"Yes, it is," replied the lady, fetching her breath.

"So do I perceive by this book; but let me put one question to thee. Wouldst thou have blessings
showered on thee, yet do no good?  Thou art wealthy--yet what dost thou and thy husband do
with these riches?  Are ye liberal?  No.  Give, and it shall be given.  I have said."

Aristodemus waved his hand, and the lady rose to withdraw.  A guinea was in her fingers, and
her purse in her hand; she took out four more, and added them to the other, and laid them on
the table.

"'Tis well, lady; charity shall plead for thee.  Artolphe, let that money be distributed among
the poor."

I bowed in silence, and the lady retired.

"Who will say that I do no good," observed Melchior, smiling, as soon as she was gone.  "Her
avarice and that of her husband are as notorious as their anxiety for children.  Now, if I
persuade them to be liberal, I do service."

"But you have given her hopes."

"I have, and the very hope will do more to further their wishes than anything else.  It is
despair which too often prevents those who have no children from having any.  How often do
you see a couple, who, after years waiting for children, have at last given up their hope,
and resigned themselves to the dispensations of Providence, and then, when their anxiety has
subsided, have obtained a family?  Japhet, I am a shrewd observer of human nature."

"That I believe," replied I; "but I do not believe your last remark to be correct--but Timothy
raps at the door."

Another lady entered the room, and then started back, as if she would retreat, so surprised
was she at the appearance of the Great Aristodemus; but as Timothy had turned the key, her
escape was impossible.  She was unknown to us, which was rather awkward; but Melchior raised
his eyes from his book, and waved his hand as before, that she should be seated.  With some
trepidation she stated that she was a widow, whose dependence was upon an only son now at sea;
that she had not heard of him for a long while, and was afraid that some accident had happened;
that she was in the greatest distress--"and," continued she, "I have nothing to offer but this
ring.  Can you tell me if he is yet alive?" cried she, bursting into tears; "but if you have
not the art you pretend to, O do not rob a poor, friendless creature, but let me depart!"

"When did you receive your last letter from him?" said Melchior.

"It is now seven months--dated from Bahia," replied she, pulling it out of her reticule, and
covering her face with her handkerchief.

Melchior caught the address, and then turned the letter over on the other side, as it lay on
the table.  "Mrs Watson," said he.

"Heavens! do you know my name?" cried the woman.

"Mrs Watson, I do not require to read your son's letter--I know its contents."  He then turned
over his book, and studied for a few seconds. "Your son is alive."

"Thank God!" cried she, clasping her hands, and dropping her reticule.

"But you must not expect his return too soon--he is well employed."

"Oh!  I care not--he is alive--he is alive!  God bless you--God bless you!"

Melchior made a sign to me, pointing to the five guineas and the reticule; and I contrived
to slip them into her reticule, while she sobbed in her handkerchief.

"Enough, madam; you must go, for others require my aid."

The poor woman rose, and offered the ring.

"Nay, nay, I want not thy money; I take from the rich, that I may distribute to the poor--but
not from the widow in affliction.  Open thy bag."  The widow took up her bag, and opened it.
Melchior dropped in the ring, taking his wand from the table, waved it, and touched the bag.
"As thou art honest, so may thy present wants be relieved.  Seek, and thou shalt find."

The widow left the room with tears of gratitude; and I must say, that I was affected with the
same.  When she had gone, I observed to Melchior, that up to the present he had toiled for nothing.

"Very true, Japhet; but depend upon it, if I assisted that poor woman from no other feelings
than interested motives, I did well; but I tell thee candidly, I did it from compassion.  We
are odd mixtures of good and evil.  I wage war with fools and knaves, but not with all the
world. I gave that money freely--she required it; and it may be put as a set-off against my
usual system of fraud, or it may not--at all events, I pleased myself."

"But you told her that her son was alive."

"Very true, and he may be dead; but is it not well to comfort her--even for a short time, to
relieve that suspense which is worse than the actual knowledge of his death?  Sufficient for
the day is the evil thereof."

It would almost have appeared that this good action of Melchior met with its reward, for the
astonishment of the widow at finding the gold in her reticule--her narrative of what passed,
and her assertion (which she firmly believed to be true), that she had never left her reticule
out of her hand, and that Melchior had only touched it with his wand, raised his reputation
to that degree, that nothing else was talked about throughout the town, and, to crown all,
the next day's post brought her a letter and remittances from her son; and the grateful woman
returned, and laid ten guineas on the black cloth, showering a thousand blessings upon Melchior,
and almost worshipped him as a supernatural being.  This was a most fortunate occurrence, and
as Melchior prophesied, the harvest did now commence.  In four days we had received upwards
of 200 pounds, and we then thought it time that we should depart.  The letters arrived, which
were expected; and when we set on in a chaise and four, the crowd to see us was so great, that
it was with difficulty we could pass through it.

PART ONE, CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

IN WHICH MELCHIOR TALKS VERY MUCH LIKE AN ASTROLOGER, AND TIM AND I RETURN TO OUR OLD TRADE
OF MAKING UP INNOCENT PRESCRIPTIONS.

We had taken our horses for the next town; but as soon as we were fairly on the road, I stopped
the boys, and told them that the Great Aristodemus intended to observe the planets, and, stars
that night, and that they were to proceed to a common which I mentioned.  The post-boys, who
were well aware of his fame, and as fully persuaded of it as everybody else, drove to the common;
we descended, took off the luggage, and received directions from Melchior in their presence
about the instruments, to which the boys listened with open mouths and wonderment. I paid them
well, and told them they might return, which they appeared very glad to do.  They reported
what had occurred, and this simple method of regaining our camp, added to the astonishment
of the good town of --.  When they were out of sight we resumed our usual clothes, packed all
up, carried away most of our effects, and hid the others in the furze to be sent for the next
night, not being more than two miles from the camp.  We soon arrived, and were joyfully received
by Fleta and Nattee.

As we walked across the common, I observed to Melchior, "I wonder if these stars have any influence
upon mortals, as it was formerly supposed?"

"Most assuredly they have," rejoined Melchior.  "I cannot read them, but I firmly believe in them."

I made the above remark, as I had often thought that such was Melchior's idea.

"Yes," continued he, "every man has his destiny--such must be the case. It is known beforehand
what is to happen to us by an Omniscient Being, and being known, what is it but destiny which
cannot be changed?  It is fate," continued he, surveying the stars with his hand raised up,
"and that fate is as surely written there as the sun shines upon us; but the great book is
sealed, because it would not add to our happiness."

"If, then, all is destiny, or fate, what inducement is there to do well or ill?" replied I.
"We may commit all acts of evil, and say, that as it was predestined, we could not help it.
Besides, would it be just that the Omniscient Being should punish us for those crimes which
we cannot prevent, and which are allotted to us by destiny?"

"Japhet, you argue well; but you are in error, because, like most of those of the Christian
church, you understand not the sacred writings, nor did I until I knew my wife.  Her creed
is, I believe, correct; and what is more, adds weight to the truths of the Bible."

"I thought that gipsies had no religion."

"You are not the only one who supposes so.  It is true that the majority of the tribe are held
by the higher castes as serfs, and are not instructed; but with--if I may use the expression--the
aristocracy of them it is very different, and their creed I have adopted."

"I should wish to hear their creed," replied I.

"Hear it then.  Original sin commenced in heaven--when the angels rebelled against their God--not
on earth."

"I will grant that sin originated first in heaven."

"Do you think that a great, a good God, ever created any being for its destruction and eternal
misery, much less an angel?  Did he not foresee their rebellion?"

"I grant it."

"This world was not peopled with the image of God until after the fall of the angels: it had
its living beings, its monsters perhaps, but not a race of men with eternal souls.  But it
was peopled, as we see it now is, to enable the legions of angels who fell to return to their
former happy state--as a pilgrimage by which they might obtain their pardons, and resume their
seats in heaven.  Not a child is born, but the soul of some fallen cherub enters into the body
to work out its salvation.  Many do, many do not, and then they have their task to recommence
anew; for the spirit once created is immortal, and cannot be destroyed; and the Almighty is
all goodness, and would ever pardon."

"Then you suppose there is no such thing as eternal punishment."

"Eternal!--no.  Punishment there is, but not eternal.  When the legions of angels fell, some
were not so perverse as others: they soon re-obtained their seats, even when, as children,
having passed through the slight ordeal, they have been summoned back to heaven; but others
who, from their infancy, show how bad were their natures, have many pilgrimages to perform
before they can be purified.  This is, in itself, a punishment.  What other punishment they
incur between their pilgrimages we know not; but this is certain, that no one was created to
be punished eternally."

"But all this is but assertion," replied I; "where are your proofs?"

"In the Bible; some day or other I will show them to you; but now we are at the camp, and I
am anxious to embrace Nattee."

I thought for some time upon this singular creed; one, in itself, not militating against religion,
but at the same time I could not call to mind any passages by which it could be supported.
Still the idea was beautiful, and I dwelt upon it with pleasure.  I have before observed, and
indeed the reader must have gathered from my narrative, that Melchior was no common personage.
Every day did I become more partial to him, and more pleased with our erratic life.  What scruples
I had at first, gradually wore away; the time passed quickly, and although I would occasionally
call to mind the original object of my setting forth, I would satisfy myself by the reflection,
that there was yet sufficient time.  Little Fleta was now my constant companion when in the
camp, and I amused myself with teaching her to write and read.

"Japhet," said Timothy to me one day as we were cutting hazel broach wood in the forest, "I
don't see that you get on very fast in your search after your father."

"No, Tim, I do not; but I am gaining a knowledge of the world which will be very useful to
me when I recommence the search; and what is more, I am saving a great deal of money to enable
me to prosecute it."

"What did Melchior give you after we left?"

"Twenty guineas, which, with what I had before, make more than fifty."

"And he gave me ten, which makes twenty, with what I had before. Seventy pounds is a large sum."

"Yes, but soon spent, Tim.  We must work a little longer.  Besides, I cannot leave that little
girl--she was never intended for a rope-dancer."

"I am glad to hear you say that, Japhet, for I feel as you do--she shall share our fortunes."

"A glorious prospect truly," replied I, laughing; "but never mind, it would be better than
her remaining here.  But how are we to manage that?"

"Ay! that's the rub; but there is time enough to think about it when we intend to quit our
present occupation."

"Well, I understand from Melchior that we are to start in a few days?"

"What is it to be, Japhet?"

"Oh! we shall be at home--we are to cure all diseases under the sun. To-morrow we commence
making pills, so we may think ourselves with Mr Cophagus again."

"Well, I do think we shall have some fun; but I hope Melchior won't make me take my own pills
to prove their good qualities--that will be no joke."

"O no, Num is kept on purpose for that.  What else is the fool good for?"

The next week was employed as we anticipated.  Boxes of pills of every size, neatly labelled,
bottles of various mixtures, chiefly stimulants, were corked and packed up.  Powders of anything
were put in papers; but, at all events, there was nothing hurtful in them.  All was ready,
and accompanied by Num (Jumbo and Fleta being left at home) we set off, Melchior assuming the
dress in which we had first met him in the waggon, and altering his appearance so completely,
that he would have been taken for at least sixty years old.  We now travelled on foot with
our dresses in bundles, each carrying his own, except Num, who was loaded like a pack-horse,
and made sore lamentations: "Can't you carry some of this?"

"No," replied I, "it is your own luggage; everyone must carry his own."

"Well, I never felt my spangled dress so heavy before.  Where are we going?"

"Only a little way," replied Timothy, "and then you will have nothing more to do."

"I don't know that.  When master puts on that dress, I have to swallow little things till I'm
sick."

"It's all good for your health, Num."

"I'm very well, I thank'e," replied the poor fellow; "but I'm very hot and very tired."

PART ONE, CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

IN WHICH TIMOTHY MAKES A GRAND SPEECH, QUITE AS TRUE AS THOSE DELIVERED FROM THE HUSTINGS--MELCHIOR,
LIKE THE CANDIDATE, STATES HIS PRETENSIONS FOR PUBLIC FAVOUR, AND THE PUBLIC, AS USUAL, SWALLOW
THE BAIT.

Fortunately for poor Num, we were not far from the market town at which we intended to open
our campaign, which we did the next morning by Num and Timothy sallying forth, the former with
a large trumpet in his hand, and the latter riding on a donkey.  On their arrival at the market-place,
Num commenced blowing it with all his might, while Timothy, in his spangled dress, as soon
as they had collected a crowd, stood upon his saddle, and harangued the people as follows:--

"Gentlemen and ladies--I have the honour to announce to you the arrival in this town of the
celebrated Doctor Appallacheosmo Commetico, who has travelled farther than the sun and faster
than a comet.  He hath visited every part of the globe.  He has smoked the calumet with the
Indians of North America--he has hunted with the Araucas in the South--galloped on wild horses
over the plains of Mexico, and rubbed noses with the Esquimaux.  He hath used the chopsticks
with the Chinese, swung the Cherok pooga with the Hindoos, and put a new nose on the Great
Cham of Tartary.  He hath visited and been received in every court of Europe: danced on the
ice of the Neva with the Russians--led the mazurka with the Poles--waltzed with the Germans--tarantulaed
with the Italians-- fandangoed with the Spanish--and quadrilled with the French.  He hath explored
every mine in the universe, walked through every town on the Continent, examined every mountain
in the world, ascended Mont Blanc, walked down the Andes, and run up the Pyrenees.  He has
been into every volcano in the globe, and descending by Vesuvius has been thrown up by Stromboli.
He has lived more than a thousand years, and is still in the flower of his youth.  He has had
one hundred and forty sets of teeth one after another, and expects a new set next Christmas.
His whole life has been spent in the service of mankind, and in doing good to his fellow-creatures;
and having the experience of more than a thousand years, he cures more than a thousand diseases.
Gentlemen, the wonderful doctor will present himself before you this evening, and will then
tell you what his remedies are good for, so that you may pick and choose according to your
several complaints.  Ladies, the wonderful doctor can greatly assist you: he has secrets by
which you may have a family if you should so wish--philters to make husbands constant, and
salve to make them blind--cosmetics to remove pimples and restore to youth and beauty, and
powders to keep children from squalling.  Sound the trumpet, Philotas; sound, and let everybody
know that the wonderful Doctor Appallacheosmo Commetico has vouchsafed to stop here and confer
his blessings upon the inhabitants of this town."  Hereupon Num again blew the trumpet till
he was black in the face; and Timothy, dropping on his donkey, rode away to other parts of
the town, where he repeated his grandiloquent announcement, followed, as may be supposed, by
a numerous cortege of little ragged boys.

About four o'clock in the afternoon.  Melchior made his appearance in the market-place, attended
by me, dressed as a German student, Timothy and Num in their costumes.  A stage had been already
prepared, and the populace had crowded round it more with the intention of laughing than of
making purchases.  The various packets were opened and arranged in front of the platform, I
standing on one side of Melchior, Timothy on the other, and Num with his trumpet, holding on
by one of the scaffold poles at the corner.

"Sound the trumpet, Philotas," said Melchior, taking off his three-cornered hat, and making
a low bow to the audience, at every blast.  "Pray, Mr Fool, do you know why you sound the trumpet?"

"I'm sure I don't know," replied Num, opening his goggle eyes.

"Do you know, Mr Dionysius?"

"Yes, sir, I can guess."

"Explain, then, to the gentlemen and ladies who have honoured us with their presence."

"Because, sir, trumpets are always sounded before great conquerors."

"Very true, sir; but how am I a great conqueror?"

"You have conquered death, sir; and he's a very rum customer to have to deal with."

"Dionysius, you have answered well, and shall have some bullock's liver for your supper--don't
forget to remind me, in case I forget it."

"No, that I won't, sir," replied Timothy, rubbing his stomach, as if delighted with the idea.

"Ladies and gentlemen," said Melchior to the audience, who were on the broad grin, "I see your
souths are all open, and are waiting for the pills; but a lot too impatient--I cannot part
with my medicine unless you have diseases which require their aid; and I should, indeed, be
a sorry doctor, if I prescribed without knowing your complaints.  Est neutrale genus signans
rem non animatam, says Herodotus, which in English means, what is one man's meat is another
man's poison; and further, he adds, Ut jecur, ut onus, put ut occiput, which is as much as
to say, that what agrees with one temperament, will be injurious to another.  Caution, therefore,
becomes very necessary in the use of medicine; and my reputation depends upon my not permitting
anyone to take what is not good for him.  And now, my very dear friends, I will first beg you
to observe the peculiar qualities of the contents of this little phial.  You observe, that
there is not more than sixty drops in it, yet will these sixty drops add ten years to a man's
life--for it will cure him of almost as many diseases.  In the first place, are any of you
troubled with the ascites, or dropsy, which, as the celebrated Galen hath declared, may be
divided into three parts, the ascites, the anasarca, and the tympanites.  The diagnostics of
this disease are, swelling of the abdomen or stomach, difficulty of breathing, want of appetite,
and a teazing cough.  I say, have any of you this disease? None.  Then I thank Heaven that
you are not so afflicted.

"The next disease it is good for, is the peripneumonia, or inflammation on the lungs--the diagnostics
or symptoms of which are, a small pulse, swelling of the eyes, and redness of the face.  Say,
have any of you these symptoms--if so, you have the disease.  No one.  I thank Heaven that
you are none of you so afflicted.

"It is also a sovereign remedy for the diarrhoea, the diagnostics of which are, faintness,
frequent gripings, rumbling in the bowels, cold sweats, and spasm."

Here one man came forward and complained of frequent gripings--another of rumbling in the bowels,
and two or three more of cold sweats.

"It is well.  O I thank Heaven that I am here to administer to you myself! for what says Hippocrates?
Relativum cum antecedente concordat, which means, that remedies quickly applied, kill the disease
in its birth.  Here, my friends, take it--take it--pay me only one shilling, and be thankful.
When you go to rest, fail not to offer up your prayers.  It is also a sovereign remedy for
the dreadful chiragra or gout.  I cured the whole corporation of city aldermen last week, by
their taking three bottles each, and they presented me with the freedom of the city of London,
in a gold box, which I am sorry that I have forgotten to bring with me.  Now the chiragra may
be divided into several varieties.  Gonagra, when it attacks the knees--chiragra, if in the
hands--onagra, if in the elbow--omagra, if in the shoulder, and lumbago, if in the back.  All
these are varieties of gout, and for all these the contents of this little bottle is a sovereign
remedy; and, observe, it will keep for ever.  Twenty years hence, when afflicted in your old
age--and the time will come, my good people--you may take down this little phial from the shelf,
and bless the hour in which you spent your shilling; for, as Eusebius declares, `Verbum personate
concordat cum nominativo,' which is as much as to say, the active will grow old, and suffer
from pains in their limbs.  Who, then, has pains in his limbs, or lumbago?  Who, indeed, can
say that he will not have them?"

After this appeal, the number of those who had pains in their limbs, or who wished to provide
against such a disease, proved so great, that all our phials were disposed of, and the doctor
was obliged to promise that in a few days he would have some more of this invaluable medicine
ready.

"Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now offer to your notice a valuable plaster, the effects of
which are miraculous.  Dionysius, come hither, you have felt the benefit of this plaster; tell
your case to those who are present, and mind you tell the truth."

Hereupon Timothy stepped forward.  "Ladies and gentlemen, upon my honour, about three weeks
back I fell off the scaffold, broke my back bone into three pieces, and was carried off to
a surgeon, who looked at me, and told the people to take measure for my coffin.  The great
doctor was not there at the time, having been sent for to consult with the king's physicians
upon the queen's case, of Cophagus, or intermitting mortification of the great toe; but fortunately,
just as they were putting me into a shell, my master came back, and immediately applying his
sovereign plaster to my back, in five days I was able to sit up, and in ten days I returned
to my duty."

"Are you quite well now, Dionysius?"

"Quite well, sir, and my back is like whalebone."

"Try it."

Hereupon Dionysius threw two somersets forward, two backward, walked across the stage on his
hands, and tumbled in every direction.

"You see, gentlemen, I'm quite well now, and what I have said, I assure you, on my honour,
to be a fact."

"I hope you'll allow that to be a very pretty cure," said the doctor, appealing to the audience;
"and I hardly need say, that for sprains, bruises, contusions, wrenches, and dislocations,
this plaster is infallible; and I will surprise you more by telling you, that I can sell it
for eight-pence a sheet."

The plaster went off rapidly, and was soon expended.  The doctor went on describing his other
valuable articles, and when he came to his cosmetics, etcetera, for women, we could not hand
them out fast enough. "And now," said the doctor.  "I must bid you farewell for this evening."

"I'm glad of that," said Timothy, "for now I mean to sell my own medicine."

"Your medicine, Mr Dionysius! what do you mean by that?"

"Mean, sir; I mean to say that I've got a powder of my own contriving, which is a sovereign
remedy."

"Remedy, sir, for what?"

"Why, it's a powder to kill fleas, and what's more, it's just as infallible as your own."

"Have you, indeed; and pray, sir, how did you hit upon the invention?"

"Sir, I discovered it in my sleep by accident; but I have proved it, and I will say, if properly
administered, it is quite as infallible as any of yours.  Ladies and gentlemen, I pledge you
my honour that it will have the effect desired, and all I ask is sixpence a powder."

"But how is it to be used, sir?"

"Used--why, like all other powders; but I won't give the directions till I have sold some;
promising, however, if my method does not succeed, to return the money."

"Well, that is fair, Mr Dionysius; and I will take care that you keep your bargain.  Will anybody
purchase the fool's powder for killing fleas."

"Yes, I will," replied a man on the broad grin, "here's sixpence.  Now, then, fool, how am
I to use it?"

"Use it," said Timothy, putting the sixpence in his pocket; "I'll explain to you.  You must
first catch the flea, hold him so tight between the forefinger and thumb as to force him to
open his mouth; when his mouth is open you must put a very little of this powder into it, and
it will kill him directly."

"Why, when I have the flea as tight as you state, I may as well kill him myself."

"Very true, so you may, if you prefer it; but if you do not, you may use this powder, which
upon my honour is infallible."

This occasioned a great deal of mirth among the bystanders.  Timothy kept his sixpence, and
our exhibition for this day ended, very much to the satisfaction of Melchior, who declared
he had taken more than ever he had done before in a whole week.  Indeed, the whole sum amounted
to 17 pounds, 10 shillings, all taken in shillings and sixpences, for articles hardly worth
the odd shillings in the account; so we sat down to supper with anticipations of a good harvest,
and so it proved.  We stayed four days at this town, and then proceeded onwards, when the like
success attended us, Timothy and I being obliged to sit up nearly the whole night to label
and roll up pills, and mix medicines, which we did in a very scientific manner.  Nor was it
always that Melchior presided; he would very often tell his audience that business required
his attendance elsewhere, to visit the sick, and that he left the explanation of his medicines
and their properties to his pupil, who was far advanced in knowledge.  With my prepossessing
appearance, I made a great effect, more especially among the ladies, and Timothy exerted himself
so much when with me, that we never failed to bring home to Melchior a great addition to his
earnings--so much so, that at last he only showed himself, pretended that he was so importuned
to visit sick persons, that he could stay no longer, and then leave us after the first half
hour, to carry on the business for him.  After six weeks of uninterrupted success, we returned
to the camp which, as usual, was not very very far off.

PART ONE, CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

IMPORTANT NEWS, BUT NOT COMMUNICATED--A DISSOLUTION OR PARTNERSHIP TAKES PLACE.

Melchior's profits had been much more than he anticipated, and he was very liberal to Timothy
and myself; indeed, he looked upon me as his right hand, and became more intimate and attached
every day.  We were, of course, delighted to return to the camp, after our excursion.  There
was so much continued bustle and excitement in our peculiar profession, that a little quiet
was delightful; and I never felt more happy than when Fleta threw herself into my arms, and
Nattee came forward with her usual dignity and grace, but with more than usual condescendence
and kindness, bidding me welcome home.  Home--alas! it was never meant for my home, or poor
Fleta's--and that I felt.  It was our sojourn for a time, and no more.

We had been more than a year exercising our talents in this lucrative manner, when one day,
as I was sitting at the entrance to the tent, with a book in my hand, out of which Fleta was
reading to me, a gipsy not belonging to our gang made his appearance.  He was covered with
dust, and the dew drops, hanging on his dark forehead, proved that he had travelled fast. 
He addressed Nattee, who was standing by, in their own language, which I did not understand;
but I perceived that he asked for Melchior.  After an exchange of a few sentences, Nattee expressed
astonishment and alarm, put her hands over her face, and removed them as quickly, as if derogatory
in her to show emotion, and then remained in deep thought.  Perceiving Melchior approaching,
the gipsy hastened to him, and they were soon in animated conversation.  In ten minutes it
was over: the gipsy went to the running brook, washed his face, took a large draught of water,
and then hastened away and was soon out of sight.

Melchior, who had watched the departure of the gipsy slowly approached us.  I observed him
and Nattee as they met as I was certain that something important had taken place.  He then
walked away with her: they sat down apart, and were in earnest conversation for more than an hour.

"Japhet," said Melchior to me, after he had quitted his wife, "what I am about to tell you
will surprise you.  I have trusted you with all I dare trust anyone, but there are some secrets
in every man's life which had better be reserved for himself and her who is bound to him by
solemn ties.  We must now part.  In a few days this camp will be broken up, and these people
will join some other division of the tribe.  For me, you will see me no more.  Ask me not to
explain, for I cannot."

"And Nattee," said I.

"Will follow my fortunes, whatever they may be--you will see her no more."

"For myself I care not, Melchior; the world is before me, and remain with the gipsies without
you I will not: but answer me one question-- what is to become of little Fleta?  Is she to
remain with the tribe, to which she does not belong, or does she go with you?"

Melchior hesitated.  "I hardly can answer; but what consequence can the welfare of a soldier's
brat be to you?"

"Allowing her to be what you assert, Melchior, I am devotedly attached to that child, and could
not bear that she should remain here.  I am sure that you deceived me in what you stated; for
the child remembers, and has told me, anecdotes of her infancy, which proves that she is of
no mean family, and that she has been stolen from her friends."

"Indeed, is her memory so good?" replied Melchior, firmly closing his teeth.  "To Nattee or
to me she has never hinted so much."

"That is very probable; but a stolen child she is, Melchior, and she must not remain here."

"Must not!"

"Yes; must not, Melchior: when you quit the tribe, you will no longer have any power, nor can
you have any interest about her.  She shall then choose--if she will come with me, I will take
her, and nothing shall prevent me; and in so doing I do you no injustice, nor do I swerve in
my fidelity."

"How do you know that?  I may have my secret reasons against it."

"Surely you can have no interest in a soldier's brat, Melchior?"

Melchior appeared confused and annoyed.  "She is no soldier's brat: I acknowledge, Japhet,
that the child was stolen; but you must not, therefore, imply that the child was stolen by
me or by my wife."

"I never accused you, or thought you capable of it; and that is the reason why I am now surprised
at the interest you take in her.  If she prefers to go with you, have no more to say, but if
not, I claim her; and if she consents, will resist your interference."

"Japhet," replied Melchior after a pause, "we must not quarrel now that we are about to part.
I will give you an answer in half an hour."

Melchior returned to Nattee, and recommenced a conversation with her, while I hastened to Fleta.

"Fleta, do you know that the camp is to be broken up, and Melchior and Nattee leave it together?"

"Indeed!" replied she with surprise.  "Then what is to become of you and Timothy?"

"We must of course seek our fortunes where we can."

"And of me?" continued she, looking me earnestly in the face with her large blue eyes.  "Am
I to stay here?" continued she--with alarm in her countenance.

"Not if you do not wish it, Fleta: as long as I can support you I will-- that is, if you would
like to live with me in preference to Melchior."

"If I would like, Japhet! you must know I would like,--who has been so kind to me as you? 
Don't leave me, Japhet."

"I will not, Fleta; but on condition that you promise to be guided by me, and to do all I wish."

"To do what you wish is the greatest pleasure that I have, Japhet--so I may safely promise
that.  What has happened?"

"That I do not know more than yourself: but Melchior tells me that he and Nattee quit the gipsy
tents for ever."

Fleta looked round to ascertain if anyone was near us, and then in a low tone said, "I understand
their language, Japhet, that is, a great deal of it, although they do not think so, and I overheard
what the gipsy said in part, although he was at some distance.  He asked for Melchior; and
when Nattee wanted to know what he wanted, he answered that he was dead; then Nattee covered
up her face.  I could not hear all the rest, but there was something about a horse."

He was dead.  Had then Melchior committed murder, and was obliged to fly the country?  This
appeared to me to be the most probable, when I collected the facts in my possession; and yet
I could not believe it: for except that system of deceit necessary to carry on his various
professions, I never found anything in Melchior's conduct which could be considered as criminal.
On the contrary, he was kind, generous, and upright in his private dealings, and in many points
proved that he had a good heart.  He was a riddle of inconsistency, it was certain; professionally
he would cheat anybody, and disregard all truth and honesty but in his private character he
was scrupulously honest, and with the exception of the assertion relative to Fleta's birth
and parentage, he had never told me a lie, that I could discover.  I was summing up all these
reflections in my mind, when Melchior again came up to me, and desiring the little girl to
go away, he said, "Japhet, I have resolved to grant your request with respect to Fleta, but
it must be on conditions."

"Let me hear them."

"First, then, Japhet, as you always have been honest and confiding with me, tell me now what
are your intentions.  Do you mean to follow up the profession which you learnt under me, or
what do you intend to do?"

"Honestly, then, Melchior, I do not intend to follow up that profession, unless driven to it
by necessity.  I intend to seek my father."

"And if driven to it by necessity, do you intend that Fleta shall aid you by her acquirements?
In short, do you mean to take her with you as a speculation, to make the most of her, to let
her sink, when she arrives at the age of woman, into vice and misery?"

"I wonder at your asking me that question, Melchior; it is the first act of injustice I have
received at your hands.  No; if obliged to follow up the profession, I will not allow Fleta
so to do.  I would sooner that she were in her grave.  It is to rescue her from that very vice
and misery, to take her out of a society in which she never ought to have been placed, that
I take her with me."

"And this upon your honour?"

"Yes, upon my honour.  I love her as my sister, and cannot help indulging in the hope that
in seeking my father I may chance to stumble upon hers."

Melchior bit his lips.  "There is another promise I must exact from you, Japhet, which is,
that to a direction which I will give you, every six months you will enclose an address where
you may be heard of, and also intelligence as to Fleta's welfare and health." 

This may not deter a man from crossing an affected zone, but it may
deter the Staffs from using that zone, when they realise that this
would imply the certainty of many thousands of casualties amongst
the troops.

The choice is between two evils, tactical acquiescence to the enemy'
s plan, blocking out a certain area, or the certainty of huge casualties.
A very interesting case occurred in the German attack near Mt. Kemmel
in the spring of 1918, where large quantities of German mustard gas
were used some distance in front of the original line of German attack.

In this case, not only was it clear that the Germans would not attempt
to advance beyond a limited objective( and they did not), but the
development of their attack left them organising their defences behind
their own mustard gas barrage.

The" Persistent Lethal"

Substance.-- The importance of these considerations can hardly be
exaggerated when we realise that, at any time, a substance possessing
the same strategic value as mustard gas, but much more violent casualty
effects, may be discovered.

The Germans were certainly aware of these possibilities. According to
the statement of an apparently reliable prisoner of the 30th R. I. R.,
July, 1918, the Regimental Gas Officer stated in a lecture that, as
the Allies had used a new gas, the Germans were going to employ a"
White Cross" gas shell.

This gas was" stronger" than any of the gases at present in use;
it possessed a persistence up to eight days, and could, therefore,
not be used on the front for an assault.

Its persistence was favoured by damp or misty weather and by the
nature of the ground.

Neither the German drum nor protection against it. The last important German
development consisted in the use of pumice impregnated with phosgene
in their Livens bombs.

It was clear that the Germans were attempting to produce a gas which was not only highly lethal
but persistent. Following up this idea, we can forecast the use of a
chemical which will not only permit the formation of defensive flanks,
or pockets, in the enemy front, or in our own defensive positions,
through their influence on Staff considerations with regard to casualties,
but, by replacing the relatively mild casualty effect of mustard gas
by a highly and rapidly lethal effect, will render these areas not
only strategically, but physically, impassable.

One of the most significant possibilities in chemical warfare development
is the arrival of this type of the compound, the highly lethal, highly
persistent chemical. The Critical Range.-- These considerations are
very interesting from the military point of view. Consider the phenomenal
amount of muscular energy required to organise any captured stretch
of territory against counter- attack. The type of compound we have outlined
is likely to change completely the aspect of attack and counter-
attack.

The Somme battlefield, for example, gave the impression of a series of defensive
positions organised by the one side or the other after attack or counter-
attack, in order to hold small gains of ground, which were never
intended to represent the final advance.

Successful progress from one trench system meant building another,
under the pounding of the enemy' s artillery, and the deadly fire
of machine- guns, exposing, in is always important, and the essential
is to carry, weight for weight, the material which will produce the
most effect.

There is no doubt what this will he when the persistent lethal compound arrives, and mustard gas would probably
have been superior to explosives for use this improvised system,
large numbers of troops, among which casualties constituted a continuous
drain upon eventual reserves.

The arrival of the highly persistent lethal compound should provide
an effective substitute for this laborious constructional protection
in the shape of the persistent lethal barrage.

This will render immediate counter- attack and near machine- gun fire
very difficult. Automatically, fewer men will be needed to hold
the advanced positions. It is true that, with the next attack," kicking
off" and assembly positions will be required, for these can be much
more efficiently developed behind a deep chemical barrage and will
demand the exposure of fewer men where more time is available for
preparation.

Such conditions, however, can only occur if one, side possesses some
distinct advantage with regard to surprise by, or efficient protection
against, the persistent lethal compound. When both sides are equally
matched in this respect, a duel will arise in which the winner will
be the one who can throw the critical concentrations of chemical
into a given area at the greatest range.

This might be called the" critical range." Herein lies the importance of the development of such weapons
as the Livens projector, and the Germans had certainly grasped an
important principle, when they used our own modified weapon against
us with a much greater range than our own.

If we admit the possibility of a persistent lethal compound, this question
of critical range assumes outstanding importance.

The New No- Man' s- Land.-- The recent war witnessed a rather sudden
adoption of trench warfare, during a period in which the artillery
strengths of both sides were relatively feeble, when compared with
the later stages of the war.

Accordingly, there arose very definite lines of field fortifications, and strongly held trench systems,
separated from each other by a comparatively narrow No- Man' s- Land,
With the development of the formidable artillery strengths of belligerents,
there was a tendency to form a much wider No- Man' s- Land, and the
front line systems were lightly held, approximating, in many cases,
to an outpost line.

The discovery and mass production of a persistent lethal substance is
likely to convert No- Man' s- Land into a permanently infected gas zone,
manned by special outposts of permanently protected troops.

Combined with the development of smoke, this may render unnecessary the
highly organised trench assembly systems of the recent war, used before the assault,
and, with the development of the tank as a fast fighting machine,
and for the transport of troops, one can obtain a glimpse of the nature
of the new attack and counter- attack.

A recent writer[ 1] has shown us the future tank carrying war into
the enemy' s country and destroying his nerve centres by actually
reaching and paralysing the G. H. Q. s. of armies and smaller formations.

Such operations will have the masks of the Allies afforded to occur
through a wide zone of the new gas and will necessitate the anti- gas tank.
Indeed, one of the most important functions of the tank will be to
carry the advance guard of an army beyond the infected No- Man' s-
Land, and such an advance will occur behind a series of smoke barrages
created, in the first place, by the artillery, and, later, by the
advance of tanks themselves.[ 1] Tanks in the Great War, Col. J. F.
C. Fuller., D. S. O. The"

Alert Gas Zone."-- The development of the" gas alert" idea has definite
interest for the future of chemical warfare.

It is well known how the development of gas shell and surprise gas shoots by the Germans led to the
necessity for" gas alert" conditions between certain times and within certain
distances of the front line.

The mask had to be worn in the so- called ready position, in order that
swift adjustment might be possible in case of surprise attack. The summer of 1917
witnessed a great increase in gas shell activity. This was reflected in
important changes in the" gas alert" regulations. In the autumn of that
year all periods of readiness were abolished and replaced by a constant state
of readiness.

In the forward area absolute readiness was required within two miles
of the front line, and special precautions were taken as far back
as twelve miles. That the Germans suffered under the same restraints
is witnessed by many captured documents.

In particular, a divisional order taken in December, 1917, gave the
gas danger zone as within fifteen kilometres of the front line, and
within this region every one must carry a mask. The alert position
of the mask was insisted upon within two kilometres of the front
line. By July the alert zone had increased in depth in both armies.

This tendency must have increased, had the war continued, for both
sides were employing gas in guns of larger calibres, and weapons were being
devised, such as the improved German Livens projector, which gave
high concentrations at much greater distances from the front line,
i. e. with greater critical ranges.

We have seen how the possible development of a persistent lethal
compound may produce an infected and wide No- Man' s- Land.

Imposed on this, there will, no doubt, be" gas alert" conditions of great
depths. How do these conceptions work out for the war of movement?
It would appear that the possession of such a compound and the means
of producing and using it on a very large scale could determine the
stationary or open nature of warfare, if other forces were not too
unequal.

A new military factor emerges, the artificial, permanent, unmanned
obstacle, which can be laid down at will on areas whose magnitude
depends finally on manufacturing capacity.

The germ of the idea appeared during the war at Kemmel and in the various mustard
gas barrages formed by artillery or delayed mines used by the Germans
in their great retreat.

The sudden development of such barriers will be equivalent in effect
to the creation of strong trench systems, but these could never result,
under war conditions, in time to approach the strategic flexibility
and importance of the persistent lethal infected barrier.

Gas and Aircraft.-- The combination of gas and aircraft presents the possibility of attaining strategic
effects by chemical means.

Many rumours were afloat, towards the end of the war, regarding the
use of gas by enemy aircraft, and there was apprehension amongst the
civil populations, which has been reflected numerous public utterances.

Evidence on the matter is very scanty. In July, 1917, the use of gas in
aeroplane bombs by the Germans was reported, but not confirmed. Further
reports in August indicated the use of Blue Cross, owing to the sneezing
effects which were produced on those within reach of the air bomb.

In October, the evidence was more conclusive. But the German aeroplanes
left no blind or dud shell, and, beyond the violent nasal and sneezing
effects of Blue Cross, evidence was again absent.

This report was very persistent, for, in July, 1918, there were
again rumours that Blue Cross bombs had been dropped on the British
near Ficheux.

The Air Forces of the different armies were, perhaps, the last to feel
the effects of the gas campaign, but the pilots of low- flying aeroplanes
in the 1918 offensive were constantly crossing pockets of gas, and
this, added to the fact that the pilots were often compelled to land
in gas, led to their equipment with gas masks.

A respirator of special type was taken from a German aviator in April,
1918, after the fighting at Passchendaele.

But the war gave us no direct evidence of the successful use of gas and war chemicals from aircraft. This, however,
is no criterion as to its eventual importance. The Allies definitely refrained from employing
the combination until Germany should give them the start in what
was regarded as a new atrocity.

The main reason for their lack of development on these lines was probably
the fact that the most suitable type of gas only developed during
the later stages of the war, when it was required exceedingly urgently
on the front.

No really harmful persistent compound appeared before the advent
of mustard gas, and the dangerous non- persistent types, such as
phosgene, could not have been used with great success, owing to the
fact that very considerable quantities would have been required to
produce any serious effect.

Mustard gas, however, which could have haunted a city for days, would
not have been required in such large quantities.

But its more urgent need on the front, and the fact that soon after it
arrived the Germans were sending out feelers to see whether the Allies would
consider the cessation of chemical warfare, were probably sufficient reasons
to explain their failure to use it from aeroplanes. Another point must
be raised in connection with the use of gas from aircraft which has not
yet received much attention.

We must remember that the use of projectiles from aircraft over a
city was a very different proposition from their use over a battle-
field.

One of the advantages of gas over explosives on the field of battle
was its greater range of action. It produced effects at longer distances
from the point of impact, but no such incentive existed for the use
of gas from aeroplanes over large cities.

Explosives, which might miss their objective on the field of battle,
could not do so in a city.

They were bound to hit something. load of the aeroplane by German aircraft
on British cities. Protective Development;-- Individual Protection.--
The question of protection against chemical attack presents some
knotty problems for the future.

Let us glance at the broad lines of war development in this field
and forecast their future in a speculative way.

Protection developed along two main lines. Individual protection covered
the mask and any other protective appliance used by the individual
soldier, while the term collective protection was applied to any method
or appliance which afforded simultaneous protection for a number of
individuals.

In general, the former represented an attempt to purify the poisoned
air actually inspired by the soldier, whereas the latter was an attempt
to purify the atmosphere of a locality or to prevent its initial poisoning.
How far can the individual form of protection develop to meet the possibilities
of the chemical?

It certainly seems to have countered satisfactorily all the war attacks
upon the respiratory system, although, as we have pointed out, the
Germans might have failed, had we been sufficiently prompt in introducing
our arsenic compounds.

But we have forecasted the use of chemicals which may attack human functions hitherto immune. For sake
of our argument, we can divide these into two classes, those attained
through the respiratory and digestive systems and those attained through
contact with some other part of the body. The former can probably
be satisfactorily met by developments in the mask.

Even that does not appear certain, when we remember the emphasis laid by Germany upon the possibility
of penetrating the mask by using a particulate cloud. The last word has certainly not been spoken in the struggle between
the mask and the chemical attempting to penetrate it.

But both the introduction of mustard gas and general speculative grounds justify us in concluding that
attacks may materialise upon other parts of the human organism, We cannot foresee the actual point of attack
and can, therefore, only view with assurance some form of protection
which covers the whole body. Collective Protection.-- All parties dabbled
in such a form of protection, but the French were the only ones to
make a large- scale experiment on the front.

It was not very successful, for the burden of these oilskin suits
was intolerable. It may be that some successful form of protection for the
whole body will materialise, but on general grounds we can assume that
development will follow other lines. What are the possibilities? They
all lie in the direction of collective protection.

The individual cannot be satisfactorily protected from the new gas and
remain an efficient soldier.

We must, therefore, see whether it is not possible to protect numbers
of men by removing them from contact with the poisoned atmosphere.
A stationary form of such protection was used by all the armies, but emphasised
by the French, by the creation of a large number of enormous underground
chambers, some capable of holding more than a thousand men, the entries
to which were carefully protected by special filtering devices to
prevent the entry of the poisoned external atmosphere.

On the British front these enormous dug- outs, although not absent,
were largely replaced by the efficient gas- proof organisation of
the smaller dugouts.

The use of impregnated blankets for this purpose must be well known
to any who visited the front or took part in hostilities.

But you cannot imprison a whole army in this way.
  In looking over my portmanteau, I
perceived the present of Nattee to Fleta, which I had quite forgotten.  I took it to Fleta,
and told her from whom it came.  On opening the paper, it proved to contain a long chain of
round coral and gold beads, strung alternately; the gold beads were not so large as the coral,
but still the number of them, and the purity of the metal, made them of considerable value.
Fleta passed the beads through her fingers, and then threw it round her neck, and sat in deep
thought for some minutes. "Japhet," said she at last, "I have seen this--I have worn this before--
I recollect that I have; it rushes into my memory as an old friend, and I think that before
morning it will bring to my mind something that I shall recollect about it."

"Try all you can Fleta, and let me know to-morrow."

"It's no use trying; if I try, I never can recollect anything.  I must wear it to-night, and
then I shall have something come into my mind all of a sudden; or perhaps I may dream something.
Good night."

It immediately occurred to me that it was most probable that the chain had been on Fleta's
neck at the time that she was stolen from her parents, and might prove the means of her being
identified.  It was no common chain--apparently had been wrought by people in a state of semi-refinement.
There was too little show for its value--too much sterling gold for the simple effect produced;
and I very much doubted whether another like it could be found.

The next morning Fleta was too much affected at parting with me, to enter into much conversation.
I asked whether she had recollected anything, and she replied, "No; that she had cried all
night at the thoughts of our separation."  I cautioned her to be very careful of the chain,
and I gave the same caution to the schoolmistress; and after I had left the town, I regretted
that I had not taken it away, and deposited it in some place of security.  I resolved to do
so when I next saw Fleta; in the mean time she would be able, perhaps, by association, to call
up some passage of her infancy connected with it.

I had inquired of a gentleman who sat near me on the coach, which was the best hotel for a
young man of fashion.  He recommended the Piazza, in Covent Garden, and to that we accordingly
repaired.  I selected handsome apartments, and ordered a light supper.  When the table was
said, Timothy made his appearance in his livery, and cut a very smart, dashing figure.  I dismissed
the waiter, and as soon as we were alone, I burst into a fit of laughter.  "Really, Timothy,
this is a good farce; come, sit down, and help me to finish this bottle of wine."

"No, sir," replied Timothy; "with your permission, I prefer doing as the rest of my fraternity.
You only leave the bottle on the sideboard, and I will steal as much as I want; but as for
sitting down, that will be making too free, and if we were seen, would be, moreover, very dangerous.
We must both keep up our characters.  They have been plying me with all manner of questions
below, as to who you were--your name, etcetera.  I resolved that I would give you a lift in
the world, and I stated that you had just arrived from making a grand tour--which is not a
fib, after all--and as for your name, I said that you were all present incognito."

"But why did you make me incognito?"

"Because it may suit you so to be; and it certainly is the truth, for you don't know your real
name."

We were here interrupted by the waiter bringing in a letter upon a salver.  "Here is a letter
addressed to `I. or J.N., on his return from his tour,' sir," said he; "I presume it is for you?"

"You may leave it," said I, with nonchalance.

The waiter laid the letter on the table, and retired.

"How very odd, Timothy--this letter cannot be for me; and yet they are my initials.  It is
as much like a J as an I.  Depend upon it, it is some fellow who has just gained this intelligence
below, and has written to ask for a subscription to his charity list, imagining that I am flush
of money, and liberal."

"I suppose so," replied Tim; "however, you may just as well see what he says."

"But if I open it he will expect something.  I had better refuse it."

"Oh no, leave that to me; I know how to put people off."

"After all, it is a fine thing to be a gentleman, and be petitioned."

I broke open the seal, and found that the letter contained an enclosure addressed to another
person.  The letter was as follows:--

  "My dear Nephew--[`Bravo, sir,' said Timothy; `you've found an uncle
  already--you'll soon find a father.'] From the great uncertainty of
  the post, I have not ventured to do more than hint at what has come to
  light during this last year, but as it is necessary that you should be
  acquainted with the whole transaction, and as you had not decided when
  you last wrote, whether you would prosecute your intended three
  months' trip to Sicily, or return from Milan, you may probably arrive
  when I am out of town; I therefore enclose you a letter to Mr
  Masterton, directing him to surrender to you a sealed packet, lodged
  in his hands, containing all the particulars, the letters which bear
  upon them, and what has been proposed to avoid exposure, which you may
  peruse at your leisure should you arrive before my return to town.
  There is no doubt but that the affair may be hushed up, and we trust
  that you will see the prudence of the measure; as, once known, it will
  be very discreditable to the family escutcheon.  [`I always had an
  idea you were of good family,' interrupted Tim.]  I wish you had
  followed my advice, and had not returned; but as you were positive on
  that point, I beg you will now consider the propriety of remaining
  incognito, as reports are already abroad, and your sudden return will
  cause a great deal of surmise.  Your long absence at the Gottingen
  University, and your subsequent completion of your grand tour, will
  have effaced all remembrance of your person, and you can easily be
  passed off as a particular friend of mine, and I can introduce you
  everywhere as such.  Take then any name you may please, provided it be
  not Smith or Brown, or such vulgarisms; and on the receipt of this
  letter, write a note, and send it to my house in Portman Square, just
  saying, `So and so is arrived.'  This will prevent the servants from
  obtaining any information by their prying curiosity; and as I have
  directed all my letters to be forwarded to my seat in Worcestershire,
  I shall come up immediately that I receive it, and by your putting the
  name which you mean to assume, I shall know whom to ask for when I
  call at the hotel.

  "Your affectionate Uncle,

  "Windermear."

"One thing is very clear, Timothy," said I, laying the letter on the table, "that it cannot
be intended for me."

"How do you know, sir, that this lord is not your uncle?  At all events, you must do as he
bids you."

"What--go for the papers! most certainly I shall not."

"Then how in the name of fortune do you expect to find your father, when you will not take
advantage of such an opportunity of getting into society?  It is by getting possession of other
people's secrets, that you will worm out your own."

"But it is dishonest, Timothy."

"A letter is addressed to you, in which you have certain directions; you break the seal with
confidence, and you read what you find is possibly not for you; but depend upon it, Japhet,
that a secret obtained is one of the surest roads to promotion.  Recollect your position; cut
off from the world, you have to re-unite yourself with it, to recover your footing, and create
an interest.  You have not those who love you to help you--you must not scruple to obtain your
object by fear."

"That is a melancholy truth, Tim," replied I; "and I believe I must put my strict morality
in my pocket."

"Do, sir, pray, until you can afford to be moral; it's a very expensive virtue that; a deficiency
of it made you an outcast from the world; you must not scruple at a slight deficiency on your
own part, to regain your position."

There was so much shrewdness, so much of the wisdom of the serpent in the remarks of Timothy,
that, added to my ardent desire to discover my father, which since my quitting the gipsy camp
had returned upon me with twofold force, my scruples were overcome, and I resolved that I would
not lose such an opportunity.  Still I hesitated, and went up into my room, that I might reflect
upon what I should do.  I went to bed revolving the matter in my mind, and turning over from
one position to the other, at one time deciding that I would not take advantage of the mistake,
at another quite as resolved that I would not throw away such an opening for the prosecution
of my search; at last I fell into an uneasy slumber, and had a strange dream.  I thought that
I was standing upon an isolated rock, with the waters raging around me; the tide was rising,
and at last the waves were roaring at my feet.  I was in a state of agony, and expected that,
in a short time, I should be swallowed up. The main land was not far off, and I perceived well-dressed
people in crowds, who were enjoying themselves, feasting, dancing, and laughing in merry peals.
I held out my hands--I shouted to them--they saw, and heard me, but heeded me not.  My horror
at being swept away by the tide was dreadful.  I shrieked as the water rose.  At last I perceived
something unroll itself from the main land, and gradually advancing to the inland, formed a
bridge by which I could walk over and be saved.  I was about to hasten over, when "Private,
and no thoroughfare," appeared at the end nearest me, in large letters of fire.  I started
back with amazement, and would not, dared not, pass them.  When all of a sudden, a figure in
white appeared by my side, and said to me, pointing to the bridge, "Self-preservation is the
first law of nature."  I looked at the person who addressed me; gradually the figure became
darker and darker, until it changed to Mr Cophagus, with his stick up to his nose. "Japhet,
all nonsense--very good bridge--um--walk over--find father--and so on."  I dashed over the
bridge, which appeared to float on the water, and to be composed of paper, gained the other
side, and was received with shouts of congratulation, and the embraces of the crowd.  I perceived
an elderly gentleman come forward; I knew it was my father, and I threw myself into his arms.
I awoke, and found myself rolling on the floor, embracing the bolster with all my might.  Such
was the vivid impression of this dream, that I could not turn my thoughts away from it, and
at last I considered that it was a divine interposition.  All my scruples vanished, and before
the day had dawned I determined that I would follow the advice of Timothy.  An enthusiast is
easily led to believe what he wishes, and he mistakes his own feelings for warnings; the dreams
arising from his daily contemplations for the interference of Heaven.  He thinks himself armed
by supernatural assistance, and warranted by the Almighty to pursue his course, even if that
course should be contrary to the Almighty's precepts.  Thus was I led away by my own imaginings,
and thus was my monomania increased to an impetus which forced before it all consideration
of what was right or wrong.

PART ONE, CHAPTER NINETEEN.

AN IMPORTANT CHAPTER--I MAKE SOME IMPORTANT ACQUAINTANCES, OBTAIN SOME IMPORTANT PAPERS, WHICH
I AM IMPORTUNATE TO READ THROUGH.

The next morning I told my dream to Timothy, who laughed very heartily at my idea of the finger
of Providence.  At last, perceiving that I was angry with him, he pretended to be convinced.
When I had finished my breakfast, I sent to inquire the number in the square of Lord Windermear's
town house, and wrote the following simple note to his lordship, "Japhet Newland has arrived
from his tour at the Piazza, Covent Garden."  This was confided to Timothy, and I then set
off with the other letter to Mr Masterton, which was addressed to Lincoln's Inn. By reading
the addresses of the several legal gentlemen, I found out that Mr Masterton was located on
the first floor.  I rang the bell, which had the effect of "Open, Sesame," as the door appeared
to swing to adroit me without any assistance.  I entered an ante-room, and from thence found
myself in the presence of Mr Masterton--a little old man, with spectacles on his nose, sitting
at a table covered with papers.  He offered me a chair, and I presented the letter.

"I see that I am addressing Mr Neville," said he, after he had perused the letter.  "I congratulate
you on your return.  You may not, perhaps, remember me?"

"Indeed, sir, I cannot say that I do exactly."

"I could not expect it, my dear sir, you have been so long away.  You have very much improved
in person, I must say; yet still, I recollect your features as a mere boy.  Without compliment,
I had no idea that you would ever have made so handsome a man."  I bowed to the compliment.
"Have you heard from your uncle?"

"I had a few lines from Lord Windermear, enclosing your letter."

"He is well, I hope."

"Quite well, I believe."

Mr Masterton then rose, went to an iron safe, and brought out a packet of papers, which he
put into my hands.  "You will read these with interest, Mr Neville.  I am a party to the whole
transaction, and must venture to advise you not to appear in England under your own name, until
all is settled.  Your uncle, I perceive, has begged the same."

"And I have assented, sir.  I have taken a name instead of my real one."

"May I ask what it is?"

"I call myself Mr Japhet Newland."

"Well, it is singular, but perhaps as good as any other.  I will take it down, in case I have
to write to you.  Your address is--"

"Piazza--Covent Garden."

Mr Masterton took my name and address, I took the papers, and then we both took leave of one
another, with many expressions of pleasure and good-will.

I returned to the hotel, where I found Timothy waiting for me, with impatience.  "Japhet,"
said he, "Lord Windermear has not yet left town. I have seen him, for I was called back after
I left the house, by the footman, who ran after me--he will be here immediately."

"Indeed," replied I.  "Pray what sort of person is he, and what did he say to you?"

"He sent for me in the dining-parlour, where he was at breakfast, asked when you arrived, whether
you were well, and how long I had been in your service.  I replied that I had not been more
than two days, and had just put on my liveries.  He then desired me to tell Mr Newland that
he would call upon him in about two hours.  `Then, my lord,' replied I, `I had better go and
tell him to get out of bed.'

"The lazy dog!" said he, "nearly one o'clock, and not out of bed; well, go then, and get him
dressed as fast as you can."

Shortly afterwards a handsome carriage with greys drew up to the door. His lordship sent in
his footman to ask whether Mr Newland was at home. The reply of the waiter was, that there
was a young gentleman who had been there two or three days, who had come from making a tour,
and his name did begin with an N.  "That will do, James; let down the steps." His lordship
alighted, was ushered up stairs, and into my room.  There we stood, staring at each other.

"Lord Windermear, I believe," said I, extending my hand.

"You have recognised me first, John," said he, taking my hand, and looking earnestly in my
face.  "Good heavens! is it possible that an awkward boy should have grown up into so handsome
a fellow?  I shall be proud of any nephew.  Did you remember me when I entered the room?"

"To tell the truth, my lord, I did not; but expecting you, I took it for granted that it must
be you."

"Nine years make a great difference, John;--but I forget, I must now call you Japhet.  Have
you been reading the Bible lately, that you fixed upon that strange name?"

"No, my lord; but this hotel is such a Noah's ark, that it's no wonder I thought of it."

"You're an undutiful dog, not to ask after your mother, sir."

"I was about--"

"I see--I see," interrupted his lordship; "but recollect, John, that she still is your mother.
By-the-by, have you read the papers yet?"

"No, sir," replied I; "there they are, pointing to them on the side table.  I really do not
like to break the seals."

"That they will not contain pleasant intelligence, I admit," replied his lordship; "but until
you have read them, I do not wish to converse with you on the subject, therefore," said he,
taking up the packet, and breaking the seals, "I must now insist that you employ this forenoon
in reading them through.  You will dine with me at seven, and then we will talk the matter over."

"Certainly, sir, if you wish it, I will read them."

"I must insist upon it, John; and am rather surprised at your objecting, when they concern
you so particularly."

"I shall obey your orders, sir."

"Well, then, my boy, I shall wish you good morning, that you may complete your task before
you come to dinner.  To-morrow, if you wish it--but recollect, I never press young men on these
points, as I am aware that they sometimes feel it a restraint--if you wish it, I say, you may
bring your portmanteaus, and take up your quarters with me. By-the-by," continued his lordship,
taking hold of my coat, "who made this?"

"The tailor to his Serene Highness the Prince of Darmstadt had that honour, my lord," replied I.

"Humph!  I thought they fitted better in Germany; it's not quite the thing--we must consult
Stulz, for with that figure and face, the coat ought to be quite correct.  Adieu, my dear fellow,
till seven."

His lordship shook hands with me, and I was left alone.  Timothy came in as soon as his lordship's
carriage had driven off.

"Well, sir," said he, "was your uncle glad to see you?"

"Yes," replied I; "and look, he has broken open the seals, and has insisted upon my reading
the papers."

"It would be very undutiful in you to refuse, so I had better leave you to your task," said
Timothy, smiling, as he quitted the room.

PART ONE, CHAPTER TWENTY.

I OPEN AN ACCOUNT WITH MY BANKERS, DRAW LARGELY UPON CREDULITY, AND AM PROSPEROUS WITHOUT A CHECK.

I sat down and took up the papers.  I was immediately and strangely interested in all that
I read.  A secret!--it was, indeed, a secret, involving the honour and reputation of the most
distinguished families. One that, if known, the trumpet of scandal would have blazoned forth
to the disgrace of the aristocracy.  It would have occasioned bitter tears to some, gratified
the petty malice of many, satisfied the revenge of the vindictive, and bowed with shame the
innocent as well as the guilty. It is not necessary, nor, indeed, would I, on any account,
state any more.  I finished the last paper, and then fell into a reverie.  This is, indeed,
a secret, thought I; one that I would I never had possessed. In a despotic country my life
would be sacrificed to the fatal knowledge--here, thank God, my life as well as my liberty
are safe.

The contents of the papers told me all that was necessary to enable me to support the character
which I had assumed.  The reason why the party, whom I was supposed to be, was intrusted with
it, was, that he was in a direct line, eventually heir, and the question was whether he would
waive his claim with the others, and allow death to bury crime in oblivion.  I felt that were
I in his position I should so do--and therefore was prepared to give an answer to his lordship.
I sealed up the papers, dressed myself, and went to dinner; and after the cloth was removed,
Lord Windermear, first rising and turning the key in the door, said to me, in a low voice,
"You have read the papers, and what those, nearly as much interested as you are in this lamentable
business, have decided upon.  Tell me, what is your opinion?"

"My opinion, my lord, is, that I wish I had never known what has come to light this day--that
it will be most advisable never to recur to the subject, and that the proposals made are, in
my opinion, most judicious, and should be acted upon."

"That is well," replied his lordship; "then all are agreed, and I am proud to find you possessed
of such honour and good feeling.  We now drop the subject for ever.  Are you inclined to leave
town with me, or what do you intend to do?"

"I prefer remaining in town, if your lordship will introduce me to some of the families of
your acquaintance.  Of course I know no one now."

"Very true; I will introduce you, as agreed, as Mr Newland.  It may be as well that you do
not know any of our relations, whom I have made to suppose, that you are still abroad--and
it would be awkward, when you take your right name by-and-by.  Do you mean to see your mother?"

"Impossible, my lord, at present; by-and-by I hope to be able."

"Perhaps it's all for the best.  I will now write one note to Major Carbonnell, introducing
you as my particular friend, and requesting that he will make London agreeable.  He knows everybody,
and will take you everywhere."

"When does your lordship start for the country?"

"To-morrow; so we may as well part to-night.  By-the-by, you have credit at Drummond's, in
the name of Newland, for a thousand pounds; the longer you make it last you the better."

His lordship gave me the letter of introduction.  I returned to him the sealed packet, shook
hands with him, and took my departure.

"Well, sir," said Timothy, rubbing his hands, as he stood before me, "what is the news; for
I am dying to hear it--and what is this secret?"

"With regard to the secret, Tim, a secret it must remain.  I dare not tell it even to you."
Timothy looked rather grave at this reply.  "No, Timothy, as a man of honour, I cannot."  My
conscience smote me when I made use of the term; for, as a man of honour, I had no business
to be in possession of it, "My dear Timothy, I have done wrong already, do not ask me to do worse."

"I will not, Japhet; but only tell me what has passed, and what you intend to do?"

"That I will, Timothy, with pleasure;" and I then stated all that had passed between his lordship
and me.  "And now, you observe, Timothy, I have gained what I desired, an introduction into
the best society."

"And the means of keeping up your appearance," echoed Timothy, rubbing his hands.  "A thousand
pounds will last a long while."

"It will last a very long while, Tim, for I never will touch it; it would be swindling."

"So it would," replied Tim, his countenance falling; "well, I never thought of that."

"I have thought of much more, Tim; recollect I must, in a very short time, be exposed to Lord
Windermear, for the real Mr Neville will soon come home."

"Good heavens! what will become of us?" replied Timothy, with alarm in his countenance.

"Nothing can hurt you, Tim, the anger will be all upon me; but I am prepared to face it, and
I would face twice as much for the distant hope of finding my father.  Whatever Lord Windermear
may feel inclined to do, he can do nothing; and my possession of the secret will insure even
more than my safety; it will afford me his protection, if I demand it."

"I hope it may prove so," replied Timothy, "but I feel a little frightened."

"I do not: to-morrow I shall give my letter of introduction, and then I will prosecute my search.
So now, my dear Tim, good night."

The next morning, I lost no time in presenting my letter of introduction to Major Carbonnell.
He lived in apartments on the first floor in Saint James's Street, and I found him at breakfast,
in a silk dressing-gown. I had made up my mind that a little independence always carries with
it an air of fashion.  When I entered, therefore, I looked at him with a knowing air, and dropping
the letter down on the table before him, said, "There's something for you to read, major; and,
in the mean time, I'll refresh myself on this chair;" suiting the action to the word, I threw
myself on a chair, amusing myself with tapping the sides of my boots with a small cane which
I carried in my hand.

Major Carbonnell, upon whom I cast a furtive eye more than once during the time that he was
reading the letter, was a person of about thirty-five years of age, well-looking, but disfigured
by the size of his whiskers, which advanced to the corners of his mouth, and met under his
throat.  He was tall and well made, and with an air of fashion about him that was undeniable.
His linen was beautifully clean and carefully arranged, and he had as many rings on his fingers,
and, when he was dressed, chains and trinkets, as ever were put on by a lady.

"My dear sir, allow me the honour of making at once your most intimate acquaintance," said
he, rising from his chair, and offering his hand, as soon as he had perused the letter. I sees too many
married troubles to mess up with.

If the still was lonely I stop, not on the way to but on the way back. Mighty good
whiskey, too! Maybe I drinks too much, then I was sorry. Not that I
swipe the whiskey, just sorry because I gets sick!

Then I figures a woods camp meeting will steady me up and I goes. The preacher meet me and want
to know how is my feelings. I says I is low with the misery and he
say to join up with the Lord.

I never join because he don' t talk about the Lord.

Just about the Master and Mistress. How the slaves must obey around
the plantation-- how the white folks know what is good for the slaves.

Nothing about obeying the Lord and working for him. I reckon the old preacher was worrying more
about the bull whip than he was the Bible, else he say something
about the Lord!

But I always obeys the Lord-- that' s why I is still living! The
slaves would pray for to get out of bondage.

Some of them say the Lord told them to run away. Get to the North. Cross the Red River. Over
there would be folks to guide them to the Free State( Kansas).

The Lord never tell me to run away. I never tried it, maybe, because
mostly they was caught by patrollers and fetched back for a flogging--
and I had whippings enough already!

Before the Civil War was the fighting with Mexico.

Some of the troops on they way south passed on the Military Road.
Wasn' t any fighting around Linden or Jefferson during the time. They
was lots of traveling on the Military Road.

Most of the time you could see covered wagons pulled by mules and horses, and sometimes a crawling string
of wagons with oxen on the pulling end.

From up in Arkansas come the stage coach along the road. To San Antonio.
The drivers bring news the Mexicans just about all killed off and
the white folks say Texas was going to join the Union.

The country' s going to be run different they say, but I never see
no difference.

Maybe, because I ain' t white folks. Wasn' t many Mexicans around the
old plantation. Come and go. Lots of Indians. Cherokees and Choctaws.
Living in mud huts and cabin shacks.

I never see them bother the tell who run the fastest, the whites or the
blacks! Almost the town was wiped out. Buildings was smashed and
big trees cut through with the cannon balls. Before the Civil War everybody
had money. The white folks, not the negroes.

Sometimes the master take me to the town stores.

They was full of money. Cigar boxes on the counter, boxes on the shelf, all filled
with money. Not the crinkley paper kind, but hard, jingley gold and
silver! Not like these scarce times!

After the War I stay on the plantation' til a soldier man tells member back
when everybody was living peaceful and happy, and nobody never had
no notion about no war.

I was borned on the' leventh of January, in 1843, and was old enough
to vote when I got my freedom, but I didn' t take no stock in all dat
politics me of the freedom.

The master never tell us-- negroes working just like before the War. That' s when I leave the
first time. Slip off, saying nothing, to Jefferson. There I found
some good white folks going to New Orleans.

First place we go is Shreveport, by wagon. They took me because I fix up with them to do the cooking.
On to the Big River( Mississippi) and boards a river steamboat for
New Orleans.

Lots of negroes going down there-- to work on the canal. The whole town was built on logs covered with
dirt. Trying to raise itself right out of the swamp.

Sometimes the water get high and folks run for the hills. When I got
there almost was I ready to leave.

I like
Texas the best. Back to Jefferson is where I go.

Fifteen- twenty mile below Linden.

Almost the first person I see was Master Davenport. He says," Black rascal,
you is coming with me."

And I do.

He tried to keep his slaves and just laugh when I tell him about
the freedom.

I worked for food and quarters' til his meanness come cropping out
again.

That wasn' t long and he threatened me with the whip and the buck
and gag.

The buck and gag was maybe worse.

I got to feeling that iron stick in my mouth, fastened around my
head with chains, pressing hard on my tongue.

No drinking, no eating, no talking! So I slip off again. That night I goes
through Linden.

Crawling on my hands and knees! Keeping in the dark spots, hiding from the whites,' til I pass the last
house, then my feets hurries me to Jefferson, where I gets a ride
to Arkansas.

In Russelville is where I stop.

There I worked around in the yards, cutting the grass, fancying the
flower beds, and earned a little money for clothes and eats, with some
of it spent for good whiskey.

That was the reason I left Arkansas. Whiskey. The law got after me to tell
where was a man' s whiskey still. I just leave so' s I won' t have to
tell. But while I was making a little money in Russelville, I lose
out on some big money, account some white folks beat me to it.

I was out in the hills west of town, walking along the banks of a
little creek, when I heard a voice.

Queer like.

I called out who is that talking and I hears it again."

Go to the white oak tree and you will find Ninety Thousand Dollars!"

That' s what I hear. I look around, nobody in sight, but I see the tree. A big white oak tree
standing taller than all the rest' round about.

Under the tree was a grave. An old grave. I scratch around but finds no money and! That' s what the
ghost comes back for. Somebody dies and leaves buried money. The
ghost watches over it' til it sees somebody it likes.

Then ghost shows himself-- lets know he' s around. Sometimes to the ghost tells where is the money buried,
like that time at Russelville.

That ain' t the only ghost I' ve seen or heard. I see one around the yard
where I is living now. A woman.

Some of these times she' ll tell me where the buried money is. Maybe
the ghost woman thinks I is too old to dig.

But I been a- digging all these long years. For a bite to eat and
a sleep- under cover.

I reckon pretty soon she' s going to tell where to dig. When she does, then old Uncle John won' t have to
dig for the eats no more! Tulsa, Okla. Iffen I could see better out' n my old eyes, and I had
me something to work with and de feebleness in my back and head would
let me' lone, I would have me plenty to eat in de kitchen all de time,
and plenty tobaccy in my pipe, too, bless God!

And dey wouldn' t be no rain trickling, through de holes in de roof,
and no planks all fell out' n de flo' on de gallery neither,' cause
dis one old nigger knows everything about making all he need to git
along!

Old Master done showed
him how to git along in dis world, jest as long as he live on a plantation,
but living in de town is a different way of living, and all you got
to have is a silver dime to lay down for everything you want, and
I don' t git de dime very often.

But I aint give up! Nothing like dat!

On de days when I don' t feel so feeble and trembly I jest keep patching'
round de place.

I got to keep patching so as to keep it whar it will hold de winter
out, in case I git to see another winter.

Iffen I don' t, it don' t grieve me none,' cause I wants to see old
Master again anyways.

I reckon maybe I' ll jest go up an ask him what he want me to do, and he' ll tell me, and iffen
I don' t know how he' ll show me how, and I' ll try to do it to please him.
And when I git it done I wants to hear him grumble like he used to
and say," Charley, you ain' t got no sense but you is a good boy.

Dis here ain' t very good but it' ll do, I reckon.

Git yourself a little piece o' dat brown sugar, but don' t let no niggers
see you eating it-- if you do I' ll whup your black behind!"

Dat ain' t de way it going be in Heaven, I reckon but I can' t set here
on dis old rottendy gallery and think of no way I better like to
have it!

I was a great big hulking buck of a boy when de War come along and
bust up everything, and I can' and goings on at dat time, and I didn'
t vote till a long time after old Master passed away, but I was big
enough before de War to remember everything pretty plain.

Old Master name was John Williams, and old Mistress name was Miss Betty, and
she was a Campbell before she married.

Young Missy was named Betty after her mommy, and Young Master was
named Frank, but I don' t know who after.

Our overseer was Mr. Simmons, and he was mighty smart
and had a lot of patience, but he wouldn' t take no talk nor foolishness.
He didn' t whup nobody very rarely, but he only had to whup' em jest one
time!

He never did whup a nigger at de time the nigger done something, but
he would wait till evening and have old Master come and watch him
do it. He never whupped very hard' cept when he had told a nigger about
something and promised a whupping next time and the nigger done it
again.

Then that nigger got what he had been hearing' bout! De plantation
was about as big as any. I think it had about three hundred acres, and
it was about two miles northwest of Monroe, Louisiana. Then he had
another one not so big, two-- three miles south of the big one, kind
of down in the woodsy part along the White river bottoms.

He had another overseer on that place and a big passel of niggers, but
I never did go down to that one. That was where he raised most of his corn and
shoats, and lots of sorghum cane. Our plantation was up on higher ground,
and it was more open country, but still they was lots of woods all
around and lots of the plantations had been whacked right out of de
new ground and was full of stumps.

Master' s place was more open, whites, it was the other way around. During the
Civil War, when the Red River was bank high with muddy water, the
Yankee' s made a target of Jefferson.

That was a small town down south of Linden Down the river come a flat barge with cannon fastened to the
deck. The Yankee soldiers stopped across the river from Jefferson and the shooting started. When the cannon
went to popping the folks went arunning-- hard to though, and all in
the fields was good plowing. The big road runned right along past our
plantation, and it come from Shreveport and run into Monroe. There wasn'
t any town at Monroe in them days, jest a little cross roads place
with a general store and a big hide house.

I think there was about two big hide houses, and you could smell that place a mile before
you got into it. Old Master had a part in de store, I think.

De hide houses was jest long sheds, all open along de sides and kivered
over wid cypress clapboards. Down below de hide houses and de store
was jest a little settlement of one or two houses, but they was a
school for white boys.

Somebody said there was a place where they had been an old fort, but I never did see it. Everything
boughten we got come from Shreveport, and was brung in by the stage
and the freighters, and that was only a little coffee or gunpowder, or
some needles for the sewing, or some strap iron for the blacksmith,
or something like dat.

We made and raised everything else we needed right on the place.
I never did even see any quinine up till after I was free.

My mammy knowed jest what root to go out and pull up to knock de
chills right out' n me.

And de bellyache and de running off de same way, too. Our thinks of
getting some help. I done some work for a white man in town and told
him about the voice.

He promised to go with me, but the next day he took two white mens
and dug around the tree.

Then he says they was nothing to find. To this day I know better.
I know wherever they' s a ghost, money is around someplace plantation
was a lot different from some I seen other places, like way east
of there, around Vicksburg.

Some of them was fixed up fancier but dey didn' t have no
more comforts than we had. Old Master come out Nothing into that
country when he was a young man, and they didn' t have even so much
then as they had when I was a boy.

I think he come from Alabama or Tennessee, and way back his people
had come from Virginia, or maybe North Carolina,' cause he knowed
all about tobacco on the place.

Cotton and tobacco was de long crops on his big place, and of course
lots of horses and cattle and mules.

De big house was made out' n square hewed logs, and chinked wid little
rocks and daubed wid white clay, and kivered wid cypress clapboards.

I remember one time we put on a new roof, and de niggers hauled up
de cypress logs and sawed dem and frowed out de clapboards by hand.

De house had two setting rooms on one side and a big kitchen room
on de other, wid a wide passage in between, and den about was de
sleeping rooms.

They wasn' t no stairways' cepting on de outside. Steps run up to
de sleeping rooms on one side from de passageway and on de other
side from clean outside de house.

Jest one big chimbley was all he had, and it was on de kitchen end, and
we done all de cooking in a fireplace dat was purty nigh as wide as de
whole room.

In de sleeping rooms day wasn' t no fires' cepting in brazers made
out of clay, and we toted up charcoal to burn in' em when it was cold
mornings in de winter.

Dey
kept warm wide de bed clothes and de knitten clothes dey had. Master
never did make a big gallery on de house, a but our white folks would
set out in de yard under de big trees in de shade.

They
was long benches made out' n hewed logs and all padded wid gray moss
and corn shuck padding, and dey set pretty soft. All de furniture in de house
was home- made, too. De beds had square posts as big around as my shank
and de frame was mortised into' em and holes bored in de frame and
home- made rope laced in to make it springy.

Den a great big mattress full of goose feathers and two-- three comforts
as thick as my foot wid carded wool inside!

Dey didn' t need no fireplaces! De quarters was a little piece from de
big house, and dey run along both sides of de road dat go to de fields.

All one- room log cabins, but dey was good and warm, and every one had
a little open shed at de side whar we sleep in de summer to keep
cool.

They was two or three wells at de quarters for water, and some good
springs in de branch at de back of de fields.

You could ketch a fish now and den in dat branch, but Young Master used
to do his fishing in White River, and take a nigger or two was along to do
de work at his camp. It wasn' t very fancy at de Big House, but it was
mighty pretty jest de same, wid de gray moss hanging from de big
trees, and de cool green grass all over de yard, and I can shet my
old eyes and see it jest like it was before de War come along and
bust it up.

I can see old Master setting out under a big tree smoking one of
his long cheroots his tobacco nigger made by hand, and fanning hisself
wid his big wide hat another nigger platted out' n young inside corn
shucks for him, and I can hear him holler at a big bunch of white
geeses what' s gitting in his flower beds and see' em string off behind
de old gander towards de big road.

When de day begin to crack de whole plantation break out wid all
kinds of noises, and you could tell what going on by de kind of noise
you hear.

Come de daybreak you hear de guinea fowls start potracking down at de edge of de woods lot, and den de roosters
all start up' round de barn and de ducks finally frying down at the
cabins in de" row", to go wid de hoecake and de buttermilk.

Den purty soon de wind rise a little, and you can hear a old bell
donging way on some plantation a mile or two off, and den more bells
at other places and maybe a horn, and purty soon younder go old Master'
s old ram horn wid a long toot and den some short toots, and here
come de overseer down de row of cabins, hollering right and left,
and picking de ham out' n his teeth wid a long shiny goose quill pick.

Bells and horns! Bells for dis and horns for dat! All we knowed was go
and come by de bells and horns!

Old ram horn blow to send us all to de field. We all line up, about seventy-
five field niggers, and go by de tool shed and git our hoes, or maybe go hitch
up de mules to de plows and lay de plows out on de side so de overseer
can see iffen de points is shart. Any plow gits broke or de point gits
bungled up on de rocks it goes to de blacksmith nigger, den we all
git on down in de field.

Den de anvil start dangling in de blacksmith shop:" Tank! Deling- ding! Tank! Deling- ding!", and
dat ole bull tongue gitting straightened out!

Course you can'
t hear de shoemaker awling and pegging, and de card spinners, and de old mammy sewing by hand, but maybe you can
hear de old loom going" frump, frump", and you know it all right
iffen your clothes do be wearing out,' cause you gwine git new britches
purty soon!

We had about a hundred niggers on dat place, young and old, and about twenty on de little place
down below.

We could make about every kind of thing but coffee and gunpowder
dat our whitefolks and us needed. When we needs a hat we gits inside cornshucks
and weave one out, and makes horse collars de same way.

Jest tie two little soft shucks together and begin plaiting. All de cloth' cepting
de Mistress' Sunday dresses come from de sheep to de carders and de
spinners and de weaver, den we dye it wid" butternut" and hickory
bark and indigo and other things and set it wid copperas.

Leather tanned on de place made de shoes, and I never see a store boughten wagon wheel' cepting among de stages
and de freighters along de big road.

We made purty, long back- combs out' n cow horn, and knitting needles
out' n second hickory. Split a young hickory and in a big wedge
to prize it open, then cut it down and let it season, and you got
good bent grain for wagon hames and chair rockers and such.

It was jest like dat until I was grown, and den one day come a neighbor
man and say we in de War.

Little while young Master Frank ride over to Vicksburg and jine de Sesesh
army, but old Master jest go on lak nothing happen, and we all don'
t hear nothing more until long come some Sesesh soldiers and take
most old Master' s hosses and all his wagons.

I bin working on de tobacco, and when I come back to de barns everything
was gone. I would go into de woods and git good hickory and burn it till
it was all coals and put it out wid water to make hickory charcoal
for curing de tobacco. I had me some charcoal in de fire trenches
under de curing houses, all full of new tobacco, and overseer come
and say bundle all de tobacco up and he going take it to Shreveport
and sell it befo' de soldiers take it too.

After de hosses Is all gone and
most de cattle and de cotton and de tobacco gone too, here come de Yankees
and spread out over de whole country.

Dey had a big camp down below our. One evening a big bunch of Yankee
officers come up to de Big House and old Master set out de brandy in
de yard and dey act purty nice. Next day de whole bunch leave on out
of dat part.

When de hosses and stuff all go old Master sold all de slaves but about four,
but he kept my pappy and mammy and my brother Jimmie and my sister Betty.
She was named after old Mistress. Pappy' s name was Charley and mammy'
s was Sally.

De niggers he kept didn' t have much work without any hosses and wagons, but de blacksmith started
in fixing up more wagons and he kept them hid in de woods till they
was all fixed. Den along come some more Yankees, and dey tore everything
we had up, and old Master was afeared to shoot at them on account
his womenfolks, so he tried to sneak the fambly out but they kotched
him and brung him back to de plantation.

We niggers didn' t know dat he was gone until we seen de Yankees bringing
dem back. De Yankees had done took charge of everything and was camping
in de big yard, and us was all down at de quarters scared to death, but
dey was jest letting us alone. It was night when de white folks tried
to go away, and still night when de Yankees brung dem back, and a
house nigger come down to de quarters wid three-- four mens in blue
clothes and told us to come up to de Big House.

De Yankees didn' t seem to be mad wid old Master, but jest laughed and
talked wid him, but he didn' t take de jokes any too good. Den dey
asked him could he dance he said no, and dey told him to dance or
make us dance.

Dar he stood inside a big ring of dem mens in blue clothes, wid dey
brass buttons shining in de light from de fire dey had in front of
de tents, and he jest stood and said nothing, and it look lak he
wasn' t wanting to tell us to dance.

So some of us young bucks jest step up and say we was wake up and jine in.
You can smell de sow belly good dancers, and we start shuffling while
de rest of de niggers pat.

Some nigger women go back to de quarters and git de gourd fiddles and de
clapping bones made out' n beef ribs, and bring dem back so we could
have some music. We git all warmed up and dance lak we never did dance
befo'! I speck we invent some new steps dat night! We act lak we dancing
for de Yankees, but we trying to please Master and old Mistress more
than anything, and purty soon he begin to smile a little and we all
feel a lot better. such doings!

Sometimes the master sent me alone to the grinding mill. Load in the yellow
corn, hitch in the oxen, I was ready to go.

I gets me fixed up with a pass and takes to the road. That was the
trip I like best. On the way was a still. Off in the bresh Next day
de Yankees move on away from our place, and old Master start gitting
ready to move out.

We git de wagons we hid, and de whole passel of us leaves out for Shreveport. Jest left
de old place standing like it was.

In Shreveport old Master git his cotton and tobacco money what he been
afraid to have sent back to de plantation when he sell his stuff,
and we strike had out north through Arkansas.

Dat was de awfullest trip any man ever make! We had to hide from everybody
until we find out if dey Yankees or Sesesh, and we go along little
old back roads and up one mountain and down another, through de woods
all de way. After a long time we git to the Missouri line, and kind
of cut off through de corner of dat state into Kansas.

I don' t know how we ever git across some of dem rivers but we did. Dey
nearly always would be some soldiers around de fords, and dey would
help and us find de best crossing.

Sometimes we had to unload de wagons and dry out de stuff what all
got wet, and camp a day or two to fix up again.

Purty
soon we git to Fort Scott, and that was whar de roads forked ever whichaways.
  Allow
me to entreat you, Mr Newland, that you do not suffer the mystery of your birth to weigh so
heavily on your mind; and now I wish you good morning, and if you think I can be useful to
you, I beg that you will not fail to let me know."

"May Heaven pour down blessings on your head," replied I, kissing respectfully his lordship's
hand; "and may my father, when I find him, be as like unto you as possible."  I made my obeisance,
and quitted the house.

PART ONE, CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

THE MAJOR PREVENTS THE LANDLORD FROM IMPOSING ON ME, BUT I GAIN NOTHING BY HIS INTERFERENCE--FOR
ECONOMICAL REASONS I AGREE TO LIVE WITH HIM THAT HE MAY LIVE ON ME.

I returned to the hotel, for my mind had been much agitated, and I wished for quiet, and the
friendship of Timothy.  As soon as I arrived I told him all that had passed.

"Indeed," replied Timothy, "things do now wear a pleasant aspect; for I am afraid, that without
that thousand, we could not have carried on for a fortnight longer.  The bill here is very
heavy, and I'm sure the landlord wishes to see the colour of his money."

"How much do you think we have left?  It is high time, Timothy, that we now make up our accounts,
and arrange some plans for the future," replied I.  "I have paid the jeweller and the tailor,
by the advice of the major, who says, that you should always pay your first bills as soon as
possible, and all your subsequent bills as late as possible; and if put off sine die, so much
the better.  In fact, I owe very little now, but the bill here--I will send for it to-night."

Here we were interrupted by the entrance of the landlord.  "O Mr Wallace, you are the very
person I wished to see; let me have my bill, if you please."

"It's not of the least consequence, sir," replied he; "but if you wish it, I have posted down
to yesterday," and the landlord left the room.

"You were both of one mind, at all events," said Timothy, laughing; "for he had the bill in
his hand, and concealed it the moment you asked for it."

In about ten minutes the landlord re-appeared, and presenting the bill upon a salver, made
his bow and retired.  I looked it over: it amounted to 104 pounds; which, for little more than
three weeks, was pretty well. Timothy shrugged up his shoulders, while I ran over the items.
"I do not see that there is anything to complain of, Tim," observed I, when I came to the bottom
of it; "but I do see that living here, with the major keeping me an open house, will never
do.  Let us see how much money we have left."

Tim brought the dressing-case in which our cash was deposited, and we found, that after paying
the waiters, and a few small bills not yet liquidated, our whole stock was reduced to fifty
shillings.

"Merciful Heaven! what an escape," cried Timothy; "if it had not been for this new supply,
what should we have done?"

"Very badly, Timothy; but the money is well spent, after all.  I have now entrance into the
first circles.  I can do without Major Carbonnell; at all events, I shall quit this hotel,
and take furnished apartments, and live at the clubs.  I know how to put him off."

I laid the money on the salver, and desired Timothy to ring for the landlord, when who should
come up but the major and Harcourt.  "Why, Newland! what are you going to do with that money?"
said the major.

"I am paying my bill, major."

"Paying your bill, indeed; let us see--104 pounds.  O this is a confounded imposition.  You
mustn't pay this."  At this moment the landlord entered.  "Mr Wallace," said the major, "my
friend Mr Newland was about, as you may see, to pay you the whole of your demand; but allow
me to observe, that being my very particular friend, and the Piazza having been particularly
recommended by me, I do think that your charges are somewhat exorbitant.  I shall certainly
advise Mr Newland to leave the house to-morrow, if you are not more reasonable."

"Allow me to observe, major, that my reason for sending for my bill, was to pay it before I
went into the country, which I must do to-morrow, for a few days."

"Then I shall certainly recommend Mr Newland not to come here when he returns, Mr Wallace;
for I hold myself, to a certain degree, after the many dinners we have ordered here, and of
which I have partaken, as I may say, particeps criminis, or in other words, as having been
a party to this extortion.  Indeed, Mr Wallace, some reduction must be made, or you will greatly
hurt the credit of your house."

Mr Wallace declared, that really he had made nothing but the usual charges, that he would look
over the bill again and see what he could do.

"My dear Newland," said the major, "I have ordered your dinners, allow me to settle your bill.
Now, Mr Wallace, suppose we take off one-third?"

"One-third, Major Carbonnell!  I should be a loser."

"I am not exactly of your opinion; but let me see--now take your choice. Take off 20 pounds,
or you lose my patronage, and that of all my friends.  Yes or no?"

The landlord, with some expostulation, at last consented, he receipted the bill, and leaving
20 pounds of the money on the salver, made his bow, and retired.

"Rather fortunate that I slipped in, my dear Newland; now there are 20 pounds saved.  By-the-by,
I'm short of cash.  You've no objection to let me have this?  I shall never pay you, you know."

"I do know you never will pay me, major; nevertheless, as I should have paid it to the landlord
had you not interfered, I will lend it to you."

"You are a good fellow, Newland," said the major, pocketing the money. "If I had borrowed it,
and you had thought you would have had it repaid, I should not have thanked you; but as you
lend it me with your eyes open, it is nothing more than a very delicate manner of obliging
me, and I tell you candidly, that I will not forget it.  So you really are off to-morrow?"

"Yes," replied I, "I must go; for I find that I am not to make ducks and drakes of my money,
until I come into possession of my property."

"I see, my dear fellow.  Executors are the very devil; they have no feeling.  Never mind; there's
a way of getting to windward of them.  I dine with Harcourt, and he has come to ask you to
join us."

"With pleasure."

"I shall expect you at seven, Newland," said Harcourt, as he quitted the room with the major.

"Dear me, sir, how could you let that gentleman walk off with your money?" cried Timothy. 
"I was just rubbing my hands with the idea that we were 20 pounds better off than we thought,
and away it went, like smoke."

"And will never come back again, Tim; but never mind that, it is important that I make a friend
of him, and his friendship is only to be bought.  I shall have value received.  And now, Tim,
we must pack up, for I leave this to-morrow morning.  I shall go down to--, and see little Fleta."

I dined with Harcourt.  The major was rather curious to know what it was which appeared to
flurry Lord Windermear, and what had passed between us.  I told him that his lordship was displeased
on money matters, but that all was right, only that I must be more careful for the future.
"Indeed, major, I think I shall take lodgings.  I shall be more comfortable, and better able
to receive my friends."

Harcourt agreed with me, that it was a much better plan, when the major observed, "Why, Newland,
I have a room quite at your service; suppose you come and live with me?"

"I am afraid I shall not save by that," replied I, laughing, "for you will not pay your share
of the bills."

"No, upon my honour I will not; so I give you fair warning; but as I always dine with you when
I do not dine elsewhere, it will be a saving to you--for you will save your lodgings, Newland;
and you know the house is my own, and I let off the rest of it; so as far as that bill is concerned,
you will be safe."

"Make the best bargain you can, Newland," said Harcourt: "accept his offer; for, depend upon
it, it will be saving in the end."

"It certainly deserves consideration," replied I; "and the major's company must be allowed
to have its due weight in the scale; if Carbonnell will promise to be a little more economical--"

"I will, my dear fellow--I will act as your steward, and make your money last as long as I
can, for my own sake, as well as yours.  Is it a bargain?  I have plenty of room for your servant,
and if he will assist me a little, I will discharge my own."  I then consented to the arrangement.

PART ONE, CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

THE MAJOR TEACHES US HOW TO PLAY WHIST SO AS NEVER TO LOSE, WHICH IS BY PLAYING AGAINST EACH
OTHER, AND INTO EACH OTHER'S HANDS.

The next day I went to the banker's, drew out 150 pounds and set off with Timothy for --. 
Fleta threw herself into my arms, and sobbed with joy.  When I told her Timothy was outside,
and wished to see her, she asked why he did not come in; and, to show how much she had been
accustomed to see, without making remarks, when he made his appearance in his livery, she did
not, by her countenance, express the least surprise, nor, indeed, did she put any questions
to me on the subject. The lady who kept the school praised her very much for docility and attention,
and shortly after left the room.  Fleta then took the chain from around her neck into her hand,
and told me that she did recollect something about it, which was, that the lady whom she remembered,
wore a long pair of ear-rings, of the same make and materials.  She could not, however, call
to mind anything else.  I remained with the little girl for three hours, and then returned
to London--taking my luggage from the hotel, and installed myself into the apartments of Major
Carbonnell.

The major adhered to his promise; we certainly lived well, for he could not live otherwise;
but in every other point he was very careful not to add to expense.  The season was now over,
and everybody of consequence quitted the metropolis.  To remain in town would be to lose caste,
and we had a conference where we should proceed.

"Newland," said the major, "you have created a sensation this season, which has done great
honour to my patronage; but I trust, next spring, that I shall see you form a good alliance;
for, believe me, out of the many heartless beings we have mingled with, there are still not
only daughters, but mothers, who are not influenced by base and sordid views."

"Why, Carbonnell, I never heard you venture upon so long a moral speech before."

"True, Newland, and it may be a long while before I do so again: the world is my oyster, which
I must open, that I may live; but recollect, I am only trying to recover my own, which the
world has swindled me out of.  There was a time when I was even more disinterested, more confiding,
and more innocent than you were when I first took you in hand.  I suffered, and was ruined
by my good qualities; and I now live and do well by having discarded them.  We must fight the
world with its own weapons; but still, as I said before, there is some good in it, some pure
ore amongst the dross; and it is possible to find high rank and large fortune, and at the same
time an innocent mind.  If you do marry, I will try hard but you shall possess both; not that
fortune can be of much consequence to you."

"Depend upon it, Carbonnell, I never will marry without fortune."

"I did not know that I had schooled you so well: be it so--it is but fair that you should expect
it; and it shall be an item in the match, if I have anything to do with it."

"But why are you so anxious that I should marry, Carbonnell?"

"Because I think you will, in all probability, avoid the gaming-table, which I should have
taken you to myself had you been in possession of your fortune when I first knew you, and have
had my share of your plucking; but now I do know you, I have that affection for you that I
think it better you should not lose your all; for observe, Newland, my share of your spoliation
would not be more than what I have, and may still receive, from you; and if you marry and settle
down, there will always be a good house and a good table for me, as long as I find favour with
your wife; and, at all events, a friend in need, that I feel convinced of.  So now you have
my reasons; some smack of the disinterestedness of former days, others of my present worldliness;
you may believe which you please."  And the major laughed as he finished his speech.

"Carbonnell," replied I, "I will believe that the better feelings predominate--that the world
has made you what you are; and that had you not been ruined by the world, you would have been
disinterested and generous; even now, your real nature often gains the ascendency, and I am
sure that in all that you have done, which is not defensible, your poverty, and not your will,
has consented.  Now, blunted by habit and time, the suggestions of conscience do not often
give you any uneasiness."

"You are very right, my dear fellow," replied the major; "and in having a better opinion of
me than the world in general, you do me, I trust, no more than justice.  I will not squander
your fortune, when you come to it, if I can help it; and you'll allow that's a very handsome
promise on my part."

"I'll defy you to squander my fortune," replied I, laughing.

"Nay, don't defy me, Newland, for if you do, you'll put me on my mettle. Above all, don't lay
me a bet, for that will be still more dangerous. We have only spent about four hundred of the
thousand since we have lived together, which I consider highly economical.  What do you say,
shall we go to Cheltenham?  You will find plenty of Irish girls, looking out for husbands,
who will give you a warm reception."

"I hate your fortune and establishment hunters," replied I.

"I grant that they are looking out for a good match, so are all the world; but let me do them
justice.  Although, if you proposed, in three days they would accept you; yet once married,
they make the very best wives in the world.  But recollect we must go somewhere; and I think
Cheltenham is as good a place as any other.  I do not mean for a wife, but--it will suit my
own views."

This last observation decided me, and in a few days we were at Cheltenham; and having made
our appearance at the rooms, were soon in the vortex of society.  "Newland," said Carbonnell,
"I dare say you find time hang rather heavy in this monotonous place."

"Not at all," replied I; "what with dining out, dancing, and promenading, I do very well."

"But we must do better.  Tell me, are you a good hand at whist?"

"Not by any means.  Indeed, I hardly know the game."

"It is a fashionable and necessary accomplishment.  I must make you master of it, and our mornings
shall be dedicated to the work."

"Agreed," replied I, and from that day, every morning after breakfast till four o'clock, the
major and I were shut up, playing two dummies under his instruction.  Adept as he was, I very
soon learnt all the finesse and beauty of the game.

"You will do now, Newland," said the major one morning, tossing the cards away.  "Recollect,
if you are asked to play, and I have agreed, do not refuse; but we must always play against
each other."

"I don't see what we shall gain by that," replied I: "for if I win, you'll lose."

"Never do you mind that; only follow my injunctions, and play as high as they choose.  We only
stay here three weeks longer, and must make the most of our time."

I confess I was quite puzzled at what might be the major's intentions; but that night we sauntered
into the club.  Not having made our appearance before, we were considered as new hands by those
who did not know the major, and were immediately requested to make up a game.  "Upon my word,
gentlemen, in the first place, I play very badly," replied the major; "and in the next," continued
he, laughing, "if I lose, I never shall pay you, for I'm cleaned out."

The way in which the major said this only excited a smile; he was not believed, and I was also
requested to take a hand.  "I'll not play with the major," observed I, "for he plays badly,
and has bad luck into the bargain; I might as well lay my money down on the table."

This was agreed to by the other parties, and we sat down.  The first rubber of short whist
was won by the major and his partner: with the bets it amounted to eighteen pounds.  I pulled
out my purse to pay the major; but he refused, saying, "No, Newland, pay my partner; and with
you, sir," said he, addressing my partner, "I will allow the debt to remain until we rise from
the table.  Newland, we are not going to let you off yet, I can tell you."

I paid my eighteen pounds, and we recommenced.  Although his partner did not perhaps observe
it, for he was but an indifferent player, or if he did observe it, had the politeness not to
say anything, the major now played very badly.  He lost three rubbers one after another, and,
with bets and stakes, they amounted to one hundred and forty pounds.  At the end of the last
rubber he threw up the cards, exclaiming against his luck, and declaring that he would play
no more.  "How are we now, sir?" said he to my partner.

"You owed me, I think, eighteen pounds."

"Eighteen from one hundred and forty, leaves one hundred and twenty-two pounds, which I now
owe you.  You must, I'm afraid, allow me to be your debtor," continued the major, in a most
insinuating manner.  "I did not come here with the intention of playing.  I presume I shall
find you here to-morrow night."

The gentleman bowed, and appeared quite satisfied.  Major Carbonnell's partner paid me one
hundred and forty pounds, which I put in my pocket-book, and we quitted the club.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

PART TWO, CHAPTER ONE.

WE FUND OUR WINNINGS, AND CONSIDER TO REFUND, A WORK OF SUPEREROGATION-- IN LOOKING AFTER MY
FATHER, I OBEY THE OLD ADAGE, "FOLLOW YOUR NOSE."

As soon as we were in the street, I commenced an inquiry as to the major's motives.  "Not one
word, my dear fellow, until we are at home," replied he.  As soon as we arrived, he threw himself
in a chair, and crossing his legs, commenced: "You observe, Newland, that I am very careful
that you should do nothing to injure your character.  As for my own, all the honesty in the
world will not redeem it; nothing but a peerage will ever set me right again in this world,
and a coronet will cover a multitude of sins.  I have thought it my duty to add something to
our finances, and intend to add very considerably to them before we leave Cheltenham.  You
have won one hundred and twenty-eight pounds."

"Yes," replied I; "but you have lost it."

"Granted; but, as in most cases, I never mean to pay my losses, you see that it must be a winning
speculation as long as we play against each other."

"I perceive," replied I; "but am not I a confederate?"

"No; you paid when you lost, and took your money when you won.  Leave me to settle my own debts
of honour."

"But you will meet him again to-morrow night."

"Yes, and I will tell you why.  I never thought it possible that we could have met two such
bad players at the club.  We must now play against them, and we must win in the long run: by
which means I shall pay off the debt I owe him, and you will win and pocket the money."

"Ah," replied I, "if you mean to allow him a chance for his money, I have no objection--that
will be all fair."

"Depend upon it, Newland, when I know that people play as badly as they do, I will not refuse
them; but when we sit down with others, it must be as it was before--we must play against each
other, and I shall owe the money.  I told the fellow that I never would pay him."

"Yes; but he thought you were only joking."

"That is his fault--I was in earnest.  I could not have managed this had it not been that you
are known to be a young man of ten thousand pounds per annum, and supposed to be my dupe. 
I tell you so candidly; and now good night."

I turned the affair over in my mind as I undressed--it was not honest-- but I paid when I lost,
and I only took the money when I won,--still I did not like it; but the bank notes caught my
eye as they lay on the table, and--I was satisfied.  Alas! how easy are scruples removed when
we want money!  How many are there who, when in a state of prosperity and affluence, when not
tried by temptation, would have blushed at the bare idea of a dishonest action, have raised
and held up their hands in abhorrence, when they have heard that others have been found guilty;
and yet, when in adversity, have themselves committed the very acts which before they so loudly
condemned!  How many of the other sex, who have expressed their indignation and contempt at
those who have fallen, when tempted, have fallen themselves!  Let us therefore be charitable;
none of us can tell to what we may be reduced by circumstances; and when we acknowledge that
the error is great, let us feel sorrow and pity rather than indignation, and pray that we also
may not be "led into temptation."

As agreed upon, the next evening we repaired to the club, and found the two gentlemen ready
to receive us.  This time the major refused to play unless it was with me, as I had such good
fortune, and no difficulty was made by our opponents.  We sat down and played till four o'clock
in the morning.  At first, notwithstanding our good play, fortune favoured our adversaries;
but the luck soon changed, and the result of the evening was, that the major had a balance
in his favour of forty pounds, and I rose a winner of one hundred and seventy-one pounds, so
that in two nights we had won three hundred and forty-two pounds.  For nearly three weeks this
continued, the major not paying when not convenient, and we quitted Cheltenham with about eight
hundred pounds in our pockets; the major having paid about one hundred and twenty pounds to
different people who frequented the club; but they were Irishmen, who were not to be trifled
with.  I proposed to the major that we should pay those debts, as there still would be a large
surplus: he replied, "Give me the money."  I did so.  "Now," continued he, "so far your scruples
are removed, as you will have been strictly honest; but, my dear fellow, if you know how many
debts of this sort are due to me, of which I never did touch one farthing, you would feel as
I do--that it is excessively foolish to part with money.  I have them all booked here, and
may some day pay--when convenient; but at present, most decidedly, it is not so." The major
put the notes into his pocket, and the conversation was dropped.

The next morning we had ordered our horses, when Timothy came up to me, and made a sign, as
we were at breakfast, for me to come out.  I followed him.

"Oh! sir, I could not help telling you, but there is a gentleman with--"

"With what?" replied I, hastily.

"With your nose, sir, exactly--and in other respects very like you-- just about the age your
father should be."

"Where is he, Timothy?" replied I, all my feelings in "search of my father" rushing into my mind.

"Down below, sir, about to set off in a post-chaise and four, now waiting at the door."

I ran down with my breakfast napkin in my hand, and hastened to the portico of the hotel--he
was in his carriage and the porter was then shutting the door.  I looked at him.  He was, as
Timothy said, very like me, indeed, the nose exact.  I was breathless, and I continued to gaze.

"All right," cried the ostler.

"I beg your pardon, sir,--" said I, addressing the gentleman in the carriage, who perceiving
a napkin in my hand, probably took me for one of the waiters, for he replied very abruptly,
"I have remembered you;" and pulling up the glass, away whirled the chariot, the nave of the
hind wheel striking me a blow on the thigh which numbed it so, that it was with difficulty
I could limp up to our apartments, when I threw myself on the sofa in a state of madness and
despair.

"Good heavens, Newland, what is the matter?" cried the major.

"Matter," replied I, faintly.  "I have seen my father."

"Your father, Newland? you must be mad.  He was dead before you could recollect him--at least
so you told me.  How then, even if it were his ghost, could you have recognised him?"

The major's remarks reminded me of the imprudence I had been guilty of.

"Major," replied I, "I believe I am very absurd; but he was so like me, and I have so often
longed after my father, so long wished to see him face to face--that--I'm a great fool, that's
the fact."

"You must go to the next world, my good fellow, to meet him face to face, that's clear; and
I presume, upon a little consideration, you will feel inclined to postpone your journey.  Very
often in your sleep I have heard you talk about your father, and wondered why you should think
so much about him."

"I cannot help it," replied I.  "From my earliest days my father has ever been in my thoughts."

"I can only say, that very few sons are half so dutiful to their fathers' memories--but finish
your breakfast, and then we start for London."

I complied with his request as well as I could, and we were soon on our road.  I fell into
a reverie--my object was to again find out this person, and I quietly directed Timothy to ascertain
from the post-boys the directions he gave at the last stage.  The major perceiving me not inclined
to talk, made but few observations; one, however struck me. "Windermear," said he, "I recollect
one day, when I was praising you, said carelessly, `that you were a fine young man, but a little
tete montee upon one point.'  I see now it must have been upon this."  I made no reply; but
it certainly was a strange circumstance that the major never had any suspicions on this point--yet
he certainly never had.  We had once or twice talked over my affairs.  I had led him to suppose
that my father and mother died in my infancy, and that I should have had a large fortune when
I came of age; but this had been entirely by indirect replies, not by positive assertions;
the fact was, that the major, who was an adept in all deceit, never had an idea that he could
have been deceived by one so young, so prepossessing, and apparently so ingenuous as myself.
He had, in fact, deceived himself.  His ideas of my fortune arose entirely from my asking him
whether he would have refused the name of Japhet for ten thousand pounds per annum.  Lord Windermear,
after having introduced me, did not consider it at all necessary to acquaint the major with
my real history, as it was imparted to him in confidence.  He allowed matters to take their
course, and me to work my own way in the world.  Thus do the most cunning overreach themselves,
and with their eyes open to any deceit on the part of others, prove quite blind when they deceive
themselves.

Timothy could not obtain any intelligence from the people of the inn at the last stage, except
that the chariot had proceeded to London.  We arrived late at night, and, much exhausted, I
was glad to go to bed.

PART TWO, CHAPTER TWO.

IN FOLLOWING MY NOSE, I NARROWLY ESCAPED BEING NOSED BY A BEAK.

And as I lay in my bed, thinking that I was now nearly twenty years old, and had not yet made
any discovery, my heart sank within me.  My monomania returned with redoubled force, and I
resolved to renew my search with vigour.  So I told Timothy the next morning, when he came
into my room, but from him I received little consolation; he advised me to look out for a good
match in a rich wife, and leave time to develop the mystery of my birth; pointing out the little
chance I ever had of success.

Town was not full, the season had hardly commenced, and we had few invitations or visits to
distract my thoughts from their object.  My leg became so painful, that for a week I was on
the sofa, Timothy every day going out to ascertain if he could find the person whom we had
seen resembling me, and every evening returning without success.  I became melancholy and nervous.
Carbonnell could not imagine what was the matter with me.  At last I was able to walk, and
I sallied forth, perambulating, or rather running through street after street, looking into
every carriage, so as to occasion surprise to the occupants, who believed me mad; my dress
and person were disordered, for I had become indifferent to it, and Timothy himself believed
that I was going out of my senses.

At last, after we had been in town about five weeks, I saw the very object of my search, seated
in a carriage, of a dark brown colour, arms painted in shades, so as not to be distinguishable
but at a near approach; his hat was off, and he sat upright and formally.  "That is he!" ejaculated
I, and away I ran after the carriage.  "It is the nose," cried I, as I ran down the street,
knocking everyone to the right and left.  I lost my hat, but fearful of losing sight of the
carriage, I hastened on, when I heard a cry of "Stop him, stop him!"--"Stop him," cried I,
also, referring to the gentleman in black in the carriage.

"That won't do," cried a man, seizing me by the collar; "I know a trick worth two of that."

"Let me go," roared I, struggling; but he only held me the faster.  I tussled with the man
until my coat and shirt were torn, but in vain; the crowd now assembled, and I was fast.  The
fact was, that a pickpocket had been exercising his vocation at the time that I was running
past, and from my haste, and loss of my hat, I was supposed to be the criminal.  The police
took charge of me--I pleaded innocence in vain, and I was dragged before the magistrate at
Marlborough Street My appearance, the disorder of my dress, my coat and shirt in ribands, with
no hat, were certainly not at all in my favour, when I made my appearance, led in by two Bow
Street officers.

"Whom have we here?" inquired the magistrate.

"A pickpocket, sir," replied they.

"Ah! one of the swell mob," replied he.  "Are there any witnesses?"

"Yes, sir," replied a young man, coming forward.  "I was walking up Bond Street, when I felt
a tug at my pocket, and when I turned round, this chap was running away."

"Can you swear to his person?"

There were plenty to swear that I was the person who ran away.

"Now, sir, have you anything to offer in your defence?" said the magistrate.

"Yes, sir," replied I; "I certainly was running down the street; and it may be, for all I know
or care, that this person's pocket may have been picked--but I did not pick it.  I am a gentleman."

"All your fraternity lay claim to gentility," replied the magistrate; "perhaps you will state
why you were running down the street."

"I was running after a carriage, sir, that I might speak to the person inside of it."

"Pray who was the person inside?"

"I do not know, sir."

"Why should you run after a person you do not know?"

"It was because of his nose."

"His nose?" replied the magistrate angrily.  "Do you think to trifle with me, sir?  You shall
now follow your own nose to prison.  Make out his committal."

"As you please, sir," replied I; "but still I have told you the truth; if you will allow anyone
to take a note, I will soon prove my respectability.  I ask it in common justice."

"Be it so," replied the magistrate; "let him sit down within the bar till the answer comes."

In less than an hour, my note to Major Carbonnell was answered by his appearance in person,
followed by Timothy.  Carbonnell walked up to the magistrate, while Timothy asked the officers
in an angry tone, what they had been doing to his master.  This rather startled them, but both
they and the magistrate were much surprised when the major asserted that I was his most particular
friend, Mr Newland, who possessed ten thousand pounds per annum, and who was as well known
in fashionable society as any young man of fortune about town.  The magistrate explained what
had passed, and asked the major if I was not a little deranged; but the major, who perceived
what was the cause of my strange behaviour, told him that somebody had insulted me, and that
I was very anxious to lay hold of the person who had avoided me, and who must have been in
that carriage.

"I am afraid, that after your explanation, Major Carbonnell, I must, as a magistrate, bind
over your friend, Mr Newland, to keep the peace."

To this I consented, the major and Timothy being taken as recognisances, and then I was permitted
to depart.  The major sent for a hackney-coach; and when we were going home he pointed out
to me the folly of my conduct, and received my promise to be more careful for the future. Thus
did this affair end, and for a short time I was more careful in my appearance, and not so very
anxious to look into carriages; still, however, the idea haunted me, and I was often very melancholy.
It was about a month afterwards, that I was sauntering with the major, who now considered me
to be insane upon that point, and who would seldom allow me to go out without him, when I again
perceived the same carriage, with the gentleman inside as before.

"There he is, major," cried I.

"There is who?" replied he.

"The man so like my father."

"What, in that carriage? that is the Bishop of E--, my good fellow. What a strange idea you
have in your head, Newland; it almost amounts to madness.  Do not be staring in that way--come
along."

Still my head was turned quite round, looking at the carriage after it had passed, till it
was out of sight; but I knew who the party was, and for the time I was satisfied, as I determined
to find out his address, and call upon him.  I narrated to Timothy what had occurred, and referring
to the Red Book, I looked out the bishop's town address; and the next day, after breakfast,
having arranged my toilet with the utmost precision, I made an excuse to the major, and set
off to Portland Place.

PART TWO, CHAPTER THREE.

A CHAPTER OF MISTAKES--NO BENEFIT OF CLERGY--I ATTACK A BISHOP, AND AM BEATEN OFF--THE MAJOR
HEDGES UPON THE FILLY STAKES.

My hand trembled as I knocked at the door.  It was opened.  I sent in my card, requesting the
honour of an audience with his lordship.  After waiting a few minutes in an ante-room, I was
ushered in.  "My lord," said I, in a flurried manner, "will you allow me to have a few minutes'
conversation with you alone."

"This gentleman is my secretary, sir, but if you wish it, certainly; for although he is my
confidant, I have no right to insist that he shall be yours.  Mr Temple, will you oblige me
by going up stairs for a little while."

The secretary quitted the room, the bishop pointed to a chair, and I sat down.  I looked him
earnestly in the face--the nose was exact, and I imagined that even in the other features I
could distinguish a resemblance.  I was satisfied that I had at last gained the object of my
search.  "I believe, sir," observed I, "that you will acknowledge, that in the heat and impetuosity
of youth, we often rush into hasty and improvident connections."

I paused, with my eyes fixed upon his.  "Very true, my young sir; and when we do we are ashamed,
and repent of them afterwards," replied the bishop, rather astonished.

"I grant that, sir," replied I; "but at the same time, we must feel that we must abide by the
results, however unpleasant."

"When we do wrong, Mr Newland," replied the bishop, first looking at my card, and then upon
me, "we find that we are not only to be punished in the next world, but suffer for it also
in this.  I trust you have no reason for such suffering?"

"Unfortunately, the sins of the fathers are visited upon the children, and, in that view, I
may say that I have suffered."

"My dear sir," replied the bishop, "I trust you will excuse me, when I say, that my time is
rather valuable; if you have anything of importance to communicate--anything upon which you
would ask my advice--for assistance you do not appear to require, do me the favour to proceed
at once to the point."

"I will, sir, be as concise as the matter will admit of.  Allow me, then, to ask you a few
questions, and I trust to your honour, and the dignity of your profession, for a candid answer.
Did you not marry a young woman early in life? and were you not very much pressed in your circumstances?"

The bishop stared.  "Really, Mr Newland, it is a strange question, and I cannot imagine to
what it may lead, but still I will answer it.  I did marry early in life, and I was, at that
time, not in very affluent circumstances."

"You had a child by that marriage--your eldest born--a boy!"

"That is also true, Mr Newland," replied the bishop, gravely.

"How long is it since you have seen him?"

"It is many years," replied the bishop, putting his handkerchief up to his eyes.

"Answer me, now, sir;--did you not desert him?"

"No, no!" replied the bishop.  "It is strange that you should appear to know so much about
the matter, Mr Newland, as you could have hardly been born.  I was poor then--very poor; but
although I could ill afford it, he had fifty pounds from me."

"But, sir," replied I, much agitated; "why have you not reclaimed him?"

"I would have reclaimed him, Mr Newland--but what could I do--he was not to be reclaimed; and
now--he is lost for ever."

"Surely, sir, in your present affluence, you must wish to see him again?"

"He died, and I trust he has gone to heaven," replied the bishop, covering up his face.

"No, sir," replied I, throwing myself on my knees before him, "he did not die, here he is at
your feet, to ask your blessing."

The bishop sprang from his chair.  "What does this mean, sir?" said he, with astonishment.
"You my son?"

"Yes, reverend father--your son; who, with fifty pounds you left--"

"On the top of the Portsmouth coach!"

"No, sir, in the basket."

"My son! sir,--impossible; he died in the hospital."

"No, sir, he has come out of the hospital," replied I; "and, as you perceive, safe and well."

"Either, sir, this must be some strange mistake, or you must be trifling with me," replied
his lordship; "for, sir, I was at his death-bed, and followed him to his grave."

"Are you sure of that, sir?" replied I, starting up with amazement.

"I wish that I was not, sir--for I am now childless; but pray, sir, who, and what are you,
who know so much of my former life, and who would have thus imposed upon me?"

"Imposed upon you, sir!" replied I, perceiving that I was in error. "Alas!  I would do no such
thing.  Who am I?  I am a young man who is in search of his father.  Your face, and especially
your nose, so resembled mine, that I made sure that I had succeeded.  Pity me, sir-- pity me,"
continued I, covering up my face with my hands.

The bishop, perceiving that there was little of the impostor in my appearance, and that I was
much affected, allowed a short time for me to recover myself, and then entered into an explanation.
When a curate, he had had an only son, very wild, who would go to sea in spite of his remonstrances.
He saw him depart by the Portsmouth coach, and gave him the sum mentioned.  His son received
a mortal wound in action, and was sent to the Plymouth hospital, where he died.  I then entered
into my explanation in a few concise sentences, and with a heart beating with disappointment,
took my leave.  The bishop shook hands with me as I quitted the room, and wished me better
success at my next application.

I went home almost in despair.  Timothy consoled me as well as he could, and advised me to
go as much as possible into society, as the most likely chance of obtaining my wish, not that
he considered there was any chance, but he thought that amusement would restore me to my usual
spirits.  "I will go and visit little Fleta," replied I, "for a few days; the sight of her
will do me more good than anything else."  And the next day I set off for the town of --, where
I found the dear little girl, much grown, and much improved.  I remained with her for a week,
walking with her in the country, amusing her, and amused myself with our conversation.  At
the close of the week I bade her farewell, and returned to the major's lodgings.

I was astonished to find him in deep mourning.  "My dear Carbonnell," said I, inquiringly,
"I hope no severe loss?"

"Nay, my dear Newland, I should be a hypocrite if I said so; for there never was a more merry
mourner, and that's the truth of it.  Mr M--, who, you know, stood between me and the peerage,
has been drowned in the Rhone; I now have a squeak for it.  His wife has one daughter, and
is enceinte.  Should the child prove a boy, I am done for, but if a girl, I must then come
into the barony, and fifteen thousand pounds per annum. However, I've hedged pretty handsomely."

"How do you mean?"

"Why they say that when a woman commences with girls, she generally goes on, and the odds are
two to one that Mrs M-- has a girl.  I have taken the odds at the clubs to the amount of fifteen
thousand pounds; so if it be a girl I shall have to pay that out of my fifteen thousand pounds
per annum, as soon as I fall into it; if it be a boy, and I am floored, I shall pocket thirty
thousand pounds by way of consolation for the disappointment.  They are all good men."

"Yes, but they know you never pay."

"They know I never do now, because I have no money; but they know I will pay if I come into
the estate; and so I will, most honourably, besides a few more thousands that I have in my book."

"I congratulate you, with all my heart, major.  How old is the present Lord B--?"

"I have just been examining the peerage--he is sixty-two; but he is very fresh and hearty,
and may live a long while yet.  By-the-by, Newland, I committed a great error last night at
the club.  I played pretty high, and lost a great deal of money."

"That is unfortunate."

"That was not the error; I actually paid all my losings, Newland, and it has reduced the stock
amazingly, I lost seven hundred and fifty pounds. I know I ought not to have paid away your
money; but the fact was, as I was hedging, it would not do not to have paid, as I could not
have made up my book as I wished.  It is, however, only waiting a few weeks, till Mrs M-- decides
my fate, and then, either one way or the other, I shall have money enough.  If your people
won't give you any more till you are of age, why we must send to a little friend of mine, that's
all, and you shall borrow for both of us."

"Borrow!" replied I, not much liking the idea; "they will never lend me money."

"Won't they?" replied the major; "no fear of that.  Your signature, and my introduction, will
be quite sufficient."

"We had better try to do without it, major; I do not much like it."

"Well, if we can, we will; but I have not fifty pounds left in my desk; how much have you?"

"About twenty," replied I, in despair at this intelligence; "but I think there is a small sum
left at the banker's; I will go and see."  I took up my hat and set off, to ascertain what
funds we might have in store.

PART TWO, CHAPTER FOUR.

I AM OVER HEAD AND EARS IN TROUBLE ABOUT A LADY'S EAR-RING--COMMIT MYSELF SADLY, AND AM VERY
NEARLY COMMITTED.

I must say, that I was much annoyed at this intelligence.  The money-lenders would not be satisfied
unless they knew where my estates were, and had examined the will at Doctors' Commons; then
all would be exposed to the major, and I should be considered by him as an impostor. I walked
down Pall Mall in a very unhappy mood, so deep in thought, that I ran against a lady, who was
stepping out of her carriage at a fashionable shop.  She turned round, and I was making my
best apologies to a very handsome woman, when her ear-rings caught my attention.  They were
of alternate coral and gold, and the facsimile in make to the chain given by Nattee to Fleta.
During my last visit, I had often had the chain in my hand, and particularly marked the workmanship.
To make more sure, I followed her into the shop, and stood behind her, carefully examining
them, as she looked over a quantity of laces.  There could be no doubt.  I waited till the
lady rose to go away, and then addressed the shopman, asking the lady's name.  He did not know--she
was a stranger; but perhaps Mr H--, the master, did, and he went back to answer the question.
Mr H-- being at that moment busy, the man stayed so long, that I heard the carriage drive off.
Fearful of losing sight of the lady, I took to my heels, and ran out of the shop.  My sudden
flight from the counter, covered with lace, made them imagine that I had stolen some, and they
cried out, "Stop thief," as loud as they could, springing over the counter, and pursuing me
as I pursued the carriage, which was driven at a rapid pace.  A man perceiving me running,
and others, without their hats, following, with the cries of "Stop thief," put out his leg,
and I fell on the pavement, the blood rushing in torrents from my nose.  I was seized, roughly
handled, and again handed over to the police, who carried me before the same magistrate in
Marlborough Street.

"What is this?" demanded the magistrate.

"A shoplifter, you worship."

"I am not, sir," replied I; "you know me well enough, I am Mr Newland."

"Mr Newland!" replied the magistrate, suspiciously; "this is strange, a second time to appear
before me upon such a charge."

"And just as innocent as before, sir."

"You'll excuse me, sir, but I must have my suspicions this time.  Where is the evidence?"

The people of the shop then came forward, and stated what had occurred. "Let him be searched,"
said the magistrate.

I was searched, but nothing was found upon me.  "Are you satisfied now, sir?" inquired I.

"By no means.  Let the people go back and look over their laces, and see if any are missing;
in the mean time I shall detain you, for it is very easy to get rid of a small article, such
as lace, when you are caught."

The men went away, and I wrote a note to Major Carbonnell, requesting his attendance.  He arrived
at the same time as the shopman, and I told him what had happened.  The shopman declared that
the stock was not correct; as far as they could judge, there were two pieces of lace missing.

"If so, I did not take them," replied I.

"Upon my honour, Mr B--," said the major, to the magistrate, "it is very hard for a gentleman
to be treated in this manner.  This is the second time that I have been sent for to vouch for
his respectability."

"Very true, sir," replied the magistrate; "but allow me to ask Mr Newland, as he calls himself,
what induced him to follow a lady into the shop?"

"Her ear-rings," replied I.

"Her ear-rings! why, sir, the last time you were brought before me, you said it was after a
gentleman's nose--now it appears you were attracted by a lady's ears; and pray, sir, what induced
you to run out of the shop?"

"Because I wanted particularly to inquire about her ear-rings, sir."

"I cannot understand these paltry excuses; there are, it appears, two pieces of lace missing,
I must remand you for further examination, sir; and you also, sir," said the magistrate, to
Major Carbonnell; "for if he is a swindler, you must be an accomplice."

"Sir," replied Major Carbonnell, sneeringly, "you are certainly a very good judge of a gentleman,
when you happen by accident to be in his company.  With your leave, I will send a note to another
confederate."

The major then wrote a note to Lord Windermear, which he despatched by Timothy, who, hearing
I was in trouble, had accompanied the major.  And while he was away, the major and I sat down,
he giving himself all manner of airs, much to the annoyance of the magistrate, who at last
threatened to commit him immediately.  "You'll repent this," replied the major, who perceived
Lord Windermear coming in.

"You shall repent it, sir, by God," cried the magistrate in a great passion.

"Put five shillings in the box for swearing, Mr B--.  You fine other people," said the major.
"Here is my other confederate, Lord Windermear."

"Carbonnell," said Lord Windermear, "what is all this?"

"Nothing, my lord, except that our friend Newland is taken up for shoplifting, because he thought
proper to run after a pretty woman's carriage; and I am accused by his worship of being his
confederate.  I could forgive his suspicions of Mr Newland in that plight; but as for his taking
me for one of the swell mob it proves a great deficiency of judgment; perhaps he will commit
your lordship also, as he may not be aware that your lordship's person is above caption."

"I can assure you, sir," said Lord Windermear, proudly, "that this is my relative, Major Carbonnell,
and the other is my friend, Mr Newland.  I will bail them for any sum you please."

The magistrate felt astonished and annoyed, for, after all, he had only done his duty.  Before
he could reply, a man came from the shop to say that the laces had been found all right.  Lord
Windermear then took me aside, and I narrated what had happened.  He recollected the story
of Fleta in my narrative of my life, and felt that I was right in trying to find out who the
lady was.  The magistrate now apologised for the detention, but explained to his lordship how
I had before made my appearance upon another charge, and with a low bow we were dismissed.

"My dear Mr Newland," said his lordship, "I trust that this will be a warning to you, not to
run after other people's noses and ear-rings; at the same time, I will certainly keep a look
out for those very ear-rings myself.  Major, I wish you a good morning."

His lordship then shook us both by the hand, and saying that he should be glad to see more
of me than he latterly had done, stepped into his carriage and drove off.

"What the devil did his lordship mean about ear-rings, Newland?" inquired the major.

"I told him that I was examining the lady's ear-rings as very remarkable," replied I.

"You appear to be able to deceive everybody but me, my good fellow.  I know that you were examining
the lady herself."  I left the major in his error, by making no reply.

PART TWO, CHAPTER FIVE.

I BORROW MONEY UPON MY ESTATE, AND UPON VERY FAVOURABLE TERMS.

When I came down to breakfast the next morning, the major said, "My dear Newland, I have taken
the liberty of requesting a very old friend of mine to come and meet you this morning.  I will
not disguise from you that it is Emmanuel, the money-lender.  Money you must have until my
affairs are decided, one way or the other; and, in this instance, I will most faithfully repay
the sum borrowed, as soon as I receive the amount of my bets, or am certain of succeeding to
the title, which is one and the same thing."

I bit my lips, for I was not a little annoyed; but what could be done? I must have either confessed
my real situation to the major, or have appeared to raise scruples, which, as the supposed
heir to a large fortune, would have appeared to him to be very frivolous.  I thought it better
to let the affair take its chance.  "Well," replied I, "if it must be, it must be; but it shall
be on my own terms."

"Nay," observed the major, "there is no fear but that he will consent, and without any trouble."

After a moment's reflection I went up stairs and rang for Timothy. "Tim," said I, "hear me;
I now make you a solemn promise, on my honour as a gentleman, that I will never borrow money
upon interest, and until you release me from it, I shall adhere to my word."

"Very well, sir," replied Timothy; "I guess your reason for so doing, and I expect you will
keep your word.  Is that all?"

"Yes; now you may take up the urn."

We had finished our breakfast, when Timothy announced Mr Emmanuel, who followed him into the
room.  "Well, Old Cent per Cent, how are you?" said the major.  "Allow me to introduce my most
particular friend, Mr Newland."

"Auh!  Master Major," replied the descendant of Abraham, a little puny creature, bent double
with infirmity, and carrying one hand behind his back, as if to counterbalance the projection
of his head and shoulders. [ Sidenote: Regulative] The most important duty of the gild had been the regulation
of the home market. It was useless to attempt to breed fine cattle
when all were herded together. Country- folk did not discover America.
Under these circumstances the citizen who would escape an assault
by ruffians or thieves remained prudently indoors at night and retired
early to bed.

Moreover, there were no potatoes or turnips, and few farmers grew
clover or other grasses for winter fodder.[ Sidenote: Peasant Life
on the Manor] resid farm- methods and the heavy dues exacted by the
lord[ Footnote: In addition to the dues paid to the lay lord, the
peasants were under obligation to make a regular contribution to the
church, which was called the" tithe" and amounted to a share, less
than a tenth, of the annual crops.] of the manor must have left the
poor man little for himself.

It was impossible, therefore, to keep many cattle through the winter;
most of the animals were killed off in the autumn and salted down
for the long winter months when it was impossible to secure fresh
meat.

By the sixteenth century the towns had grown out of their infancy
and were maintaining a great measure of political and economic freedom.

In many of the garden plots at the rear of the low- roofed dwellings
were dug wells which provided water for the family; and the visitor,
before he left the town, would be likely to meet with water- sellers calling
out their ware. The winter diet of salt meat, the lack of vegetables,
the chronic filth and squalor, and the sorry ignorance of all laws
of health opened the way to disease and contagion.

It was the enterprise of the cities, with their growing industries and commerce
arrival, which brought about the Commercial Revolution; and to the
development of commerce, industry, and the towns, we now must turn
our attention.

The gild had rules specifying the quality of materials to be used
and often, likewise, the methods of manufacture; it might prohibit night-
work, and it usually fixed a" fair price" at which goods were to be
sold.

The serf, at any rate, had
the open air instead of a factory in which to work.[ Sidenote: Decline
of Merchant Guilds] With the expansion of trade and industry in the
thirteenth and fourteenth centuries the rule of the old merchant gilds,
instead of keeping pace with the times, became oppressive, limited,
or merely nominal.

In one place nobleman and peasant met on a common footing-- in the village
church. After the expiration of this period of apprenticeship, during
which he had learned his trade thoroughly, the youth became a" journeyman,"
and worked for wages, until he should finally receive admission to
the gild as a master, with the right to set up his own little shop,
with apprentices and journeymen of his own, and to sell his wares
directly to those who used them.

In the year 1500 the merchant gilds were everywhere on the decline, but they still preserved many of
their earlier and more glorious traditions. The monks too were ordinarily
poor, although the monastery might be wealthy, and they likewise often
tilled the fields.] himself often of humble birth, though the most learned
man on the manor, was at once the friend and benefactor of the poor
and the spiritual director of the lord.

It must be borne in mind that the towns were comparatively small,
for the great bulk of people still lived in the country.

Some were petty republics subject only in a very vague way to an extraneous potentate; some merely paid annual
tribute to a lord; some were administered by officers of a king
or feudal magnate; others were controlled by oligarchical commercial
associations. Intercourse with other villages was unnecessary, unless
there were no blacksmith or miller on the spot. The regulation of the
processes of manufacture, once designed to keep up the standard of skill, came
in time to be a powerful hindrance to technical improvements; and
in the method as well as in the amount of his work, the enterprising
master found himself handicapped.

In England specialized control of industry and trade by craft gilds,
journeymen' s gilds, and dealers' associations gradually took the
place of the general supervision of the older merchant gild. Only
a few old soldiers, and possibly a priest, had traveled very much; they
were the only geographies and the only books of travel which the
village possessed, for few peasants could read or write.

But with the lapse of time and the growth of the towns, the townsmen or burghers had begun a struggle
for freedom from their feudal lords.

The country instinctively distrusted all novelties; it always preferred
old ways to new; it was heartily conservative.

The breed deteriorated, and both cattle and sheep were undersized and poor.
And if the crops failed, famine was added to plague. TOWNS ON THE EVE
OF THE COMMERCIAL REVOLUTION[ Sidenote: Trade and the Towns] Except for
the wealthy Italian city- states and a few other cities which traced
their history back to Roman times, most European towns, it must be
remembered, dated only from the later middle ages.

Usually the town itself was inclosed by strong walls, and admission was to be gained
only by passing through the gates, where one might be accosted by soldiers
and forced to pay toll.[ Sidenote: Protective] As a protective organization,
the gild had been particularly effective. The towns, moreover, became exchanges
where surplus farm products could be marketed, where wine could be
bartered for wool, or wheat for flax.

They tended to become exclusive and to direct their power and affluence in hereditary grooves.
In those days all strangers were regarded as suspicious persons, and
not infrequently when a merchant of the gild traveled to another town
he would be set upon and robbed or cast into prison.

Compared with the comfort of the farmer today, the poverty of sixteenth- century
peasants must have been inexpressibly distressful.[ Sidenote: Freedom
of the Towns.][ Sidenote: Town Charters] Originally many a town had
belonged to some nobleman' s extensive manor and its inhabitants
had been under much the same servile obligations to the lord as were
the strictly rural serfs.

Self- sufficient and secluded from the outer world, the rural village
went on treasuring its traditions, keeping its get old customs, century
after century.

They did not want to pay servile dues to a baron, but preferred to
substitute a fixed annual payment for individual obligations; they
besought the right to manage their market; they wished to have cases
at law tried in a court of their own rather than in the feudal court
over which the nobleman presided; and they demanded the right to pay
all taxes in a lump sum for the town, themselves assessing and collecting
the share of each citizen.

In such cases it was necessary for the gild to ransom the imprisoned"
brother" and, if possible, to punish the persons who had done the injury,
so that thereafter the liberties of the gild members would be respected.

Often their narrowness made them impassable
for wagons. Other towns, formerly founded by bishops, abbots, or counts,
had received charters at the very outset. They steadily raised their
entrance fees and qualifications. The village priest,[ Footnote: Usually very
different from the higher clergy, who had large landed estates of their
own, the parish priests had but modest incomes from the tithes of their
parishioners and frequently eked out a living by toiling on allotted
patches of ground. The dishonest green grocer was not allowed to use
a peck- measure with false bottom, for weighing and measuring were
done by officials.

The streets were usually in deplorable condition.[ Sidenote: Earlier Functions
of the Merchant Gild.][ Sidenote: Social] Its social and religious functions,
inherited from much earlier bodies, consisted in paying some special
honor to a patron saint, in giving aid to members in sickness or
misfortune, attending funerals, and also in the more enjoyable meetings
when the freely flowing bowl enlivened the transaction of gild business.

But with the increase of commerce, which, as we shall see, especially
marked the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth centuries, more merchants
traveled through the country, ways of spending money multiplied, and the little
agricultural villages learned to look on the town as the place to
buy not only luxuries but such tools, clothing, and shoes as could
be manufactured more conveniently by skillful town artisans than by
clumsy rustics.

Backed by the combined forces of all the gildsmen, it was able to
assert itself against the lord who claimed manorial rights over the
town, and to insist that a runaway serf who had lived in the town
for a year and a day should not be dragged back to perform his servile
labor on the manor, but should be recognized as a freeman.

TRADE PRIOR TO THE COMMERCIAL REVOLUTION Just as agriculture is the ultimate basis of human society,
so town- life has always been an index of culture and civilization. Town, trade, and industry thus worked
together: trade stimulated industry, industry assisted trade, and
the town profited by both.

These concessions they eventually had won, and each city had its charter,
in which its privileges were enumerated and recognized by the authority
of the nobleman, or of the king, to whom the city owed allegiance. That
the business of the gild might be increased, it was often desirable
to enter into special arrangements with neighboring cities whereby the
rights, lives, and properties of gildsmen were guaranteed; and the gild as
a whole was responsible for the debts of any of its members.

The approach to an ordinary city of the time lay through rode away
to court or to war. But of the general appearance and life of sixteenth-
century towns, it is possible to secure a more uniform notion. Occasionally
a visit of the bishop to administer confirmation to suburbs, farms,
and garden- plots, for the townsman still supplemented industry with
small- scale agriculture.( cornering the market),[ Footnote: The idea
that" combinations in restraint of trade" are wrong quite possibly
goes back to this abhorrence of engrossing.] and" regrating"[ Footnote:
The octroi is still collected in Paris.] Moreover, a conviction prevailed
that the gild was morally bound to enforce honest straightforward
methods of business; and the" wardens" appointed by the gild to supervise
the market endeavored to prevent, as dishonest practices," forestalling"[
Sidenote: Industry: the Craft Guilds] Alongside of the merchant gilds,
which had been associated with the growth of commerce and the rise
of towns, were other guilds connected with the growth of industry,
which retained their importance long after 1500.

No goods were
allowed to be carried away from the city if the townsmen wished to buy; and
a tax, called in France the octroi, was levied on goods brought into the
town.( retailing at higher than market price). At the time of their greatest
importance they had embraced merchants, butchers, bakers, and candlestick-
makers: in fact, all who bought or sold in the town were included
in the gild.

Cheats were fined heavily and, if they persisted in their evil ways
apparently, they might be expelled from the gild.

And the fortunes of town- life have ever depended upon the vicissitudes
of trade and commerce.

In England, where their growth was most rapid,
82 out of the total of 102 towns had merchant gilds by the end of the thirteenth
century.[ Footnote: The craft gild was also called a company, or a mistery,
or metier( French), or Zunft( German).] Springing into prominence
in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, the craft gild sometimes,
as in Germany, voiced a popular revolt against corrupt and oligarchical
merchant gilds, and sometimes most frequently so in England-- worked
quite harmoniously with the merchant gild, to which its own members
belonged.

When times were good, he had grain and meat in plenty, and possibly
wine or cider, and he hardly envied the tapestried chambers, the
bejeweled clothes, and well the spiced foods of the nobility, for
he looked upon them as belonging to a different world.

Where the merchant
gilds became oppressive oligarchical associations, as they did in Germany
and elsewhere on the Continent, they lost their power by the revolt
of the more democratic" craft gilds."

Travel was largely on horseback, and what few commodities were carried
from place to place were transported by pack- horses.

After suffering the loss of its vital functions, the merchant gild
by the sixteenth century either quietly succumbed or lived on with
power in a limited branch of trade, or continued as an honorary organization
with occasional feasts, or, and this was especially true in England,
it became practically identical with the town corporation, from which
originally it had been distinct.( buying outside of the regular market),"
engrossing"

These
were the craft gilds.[ Footnote: Several important places, such as
London, Colchester, and Norwich, belonged to the small minority without
merchant gilds.] On the Continent many towns, especially in Germany,
had quite different arrangements, and where merchant gilds existed, they were
often exclusive and selfish groups of merchants in a single branch
of business.

Dirt and filth and refuse were ordinarily disposed of only when a
heaven- sent rain washed them down the open gutters constructed along
the middle, or on each side, of a street.

There were bakers' gilds, brewers' gilds, smiths' gilds, saddlers' gilds,
shoemakers' gilds, weavers' gilds, tailors' gilds, tanners' gilds, even
gilds of masters of arts who constituted the teaching staff of colleges
and universities. Thus the rich drapers sold all the cloth, but did
not help to make it. Apprenticeship was designed to make sure that recruits
to the trade were properly trained.

Rising from the midst of tumble- down dwellings might stand a magnificent
we must not forget that the tenement- houses of our great cities
have been crowded in the nineteenth century with people more miserable
than ever was serf of the middle ages.

At
night respectable town- life was practically at a standstill: the
gates were shut; the curfew sounded; no street- lamps dispelled the darkness,
except possibly an occasional lantern which an altruistic or festive
townsman might hang in his front- window; and no efficient police-
force existed-- merely a handful of townsmen were drafted from time
to time as" watchmen" to preserve order, and the" night watch" was
famed rather for its ability to sleep or to roister than to protect
life or purse.[ Sidenote: Partial Decay of Craft Gilds] By the opening
of the sixteenth century the craft gilds, though not so weakened as
the merchant gilds, were suffering from various internal diseases
which sapped their vitality.

And
as the towns grew in size, the prosperous citizens proved to be the
best customers for foreign luxuries, and foreign trade you grew apace.[
Sidenote: Merchant Gilds] A peculiar outgrowth of the need for protection
against oppressive feudal lords, as well as against thieves, swindlers,
and dishonest workmen, had been the typically urban organization known
as the merchant gild or the merchants' company.

Struggles between gilds in allied trades, such as spinning, weaving, fulling,
and dyeing, often resulted in the reduction of several gilds to a
dependent position. The roads were poor and in wet weather impassable.
Even the old conscientiousness often gave way to greed, until in
many places inferior workmanship received the approval of the gild.

These new organizations were symptomatic of injustice but otherwise
unimportant.

On the one hand the old gild organization would be usurped and controlled
by wealthier master- workmen, called" livery men," because they wore
rich uniforms, or a class of dealers would arise and organize a" merchants'
company" to conduct a wholesale business in the products of a particular
industry.

When to- day we speak of a boy" serving his apprenticeship" in a trade,
we seldom reflect that the expression is derived from a practice of the medieval
craft gilds, a practice which survived after the gilds were extinct.
In order to better their condition they formed new associations,
which in England were called journeymen' s or yeomen' s companies.

On the other hand it became increasingly difficult for journeymen and
apprentices to rise to the station of masters; oftentimes they remained wage-
earners for life. Many craft gilds exhibited in the fifteenth and
sixteenth centuries a tendency to split somewhat along the present
lines of capital and labor. There were no sidewalks, and only the main
thoroughfares were paved. II, ch xviii.] and slowly suffering diminution
of prestige through royal interference.[ Sidenote: Revival of Trade
with the East] Trade between Europe and Asia, which had been a feature
of the antique world of Greeks and Romans, had been very nearly destroyed
by the barbarian invasions of the fifth century and by subsequent
conflicts between Mohammedans and Christians, so that during several
centuries the old trade- routes were traveled only by a few Jews and
with the Syrians.[ Sidenote: Rural Isolation and Conservatism] At
other times there was little to disturb the monotony of village life
and little to remind it of the outside world, except when a gossiping
peddler chanced along, or when the squire the children, afforded an
opportunity for gayety and universal festivity.

A town of 5000 inhabitants was then accounted large; and even the largest places, like Nuremberg,
Strassburg, London, Paris, and Bruges, would have been only small
cities in our eyes.

Burdensome restrictions were laid upon the stranger who attempted to utilize
the advantages of the market without sharing the expense of maintenance.
At first there was little excuse for their existence except to sell
to farmers salt, fish, iron, and a few plows. Inside the walls were
clustered houses of every description. was The apprentice was usually
selected as a boy by a master- workman and indentured-- that is, bound
to work several years without wages, while living at the master' s
house.

Here and there a prosperous merchant would have his luxurious home, built in what we now call
the Gothic style, with pointed windows and gables, and, to save space in
a walled town, with the second story projecting out over the. And the
merchant gild had then possessed the widest functions. There might
be one or two broad highways, but the rest were mere alleys, devious,
dark, and dirty. In England these charters had been acquired generally
by merchant gilds, upon payment of a substantial sum to the nobleman;
in France frequently the townsmen had formed associations, called communes,
and had rebelled successfully against their feudal lords; in Germany
the cities had leagued together for mutual protection and for the
acquisition of common privileges.

In places the pedestrian waded gallantly through mud and garbage;
pigs grunted ponderously as he pushed them aside; chickens ran under
his feet; and occasionally a dead dog obstructed the way.

The craft gilds, with
all their imperfections, were to continue in power awhile longer, slowly
giving away as new trades arose outside of their control, gradually succumbing
in competition with capitalists who refused to be bound by gild rules and
who were to evolve a new" domestic system,"[ Footnote: See Vol.
In common with the merchant gild, the craft gild had religious and
social aspects, and like the merchant gild it insisted on righteous
dealings; but unlike the merchant gild it was composed of men in a
single industry, and it controlled in detail the manufacture as well
as the marketing of commodities.

Not only was there no general sewerage for the town, but there was likewise no public
water supply. How keenly the cold pierced the dark huts of the poorest, is hard for
us to imagine. To guard against the danger of fires, each municipality encouraged
its citizens to build their houses of stone and to keep a tub full
of water before every building; and in each district a special official
was equipped with a proper hook and cord for pulling down houses on
fire. By means of cathedral, town- hall, or gild building. There, on
Sundays and feast- days, they came together as Christians to hear
Mass; and afterwards, perhaps, holiday games and dancing on the green,
benignantly patronized by the lord' s family, helped the common folk
to forget their labors.

This restriction of membership was not the only way in which the
trade was supervised.

On the other hand such provisions,
enforced by wardens or inspectors, the gild not only perpetuated the"
good old way" of doing things, but guaranteed to the purchaser a thoroughly
good article at a fair price.

A full- grown ox was hardly larger than a good- sized calf of the present
time. Picturesque and quaint the sixteenth- century town may have been;
but it was also an uncomfortable and an unhealthful place in which to
live. The protection of the gild was accorded also to townsmen on their
travels. These merchant gilds, with their social, protective, and
regulative functions, had first begun to be important in the eleventh
century.

So the reviving commerce of the later middle ages between Europe and
the East meant the growth of cities and betokened an advance in civilization.[
Sidenote: Life in the Towns] In the year 1500 the European towns displayed
little uniformity in government or in the amount of liberty they possessed.
  They
never would believe it possible that I could have lived so long with your relative, without
having had a large supply of money.  They might believe that I had run through my money, but
not that I never had any."

"There is a knowledge of the world in that remark," replied his lordship; "but I interrupted
you, so proceed."

"I mean to observe, my lord, and you, by your knowledge of my previous history, can best judge
how far I am warranted in saying so, that I have as yet steered the middle course between that
which is dishonest and honest.  If the world deceives itself, you would say that, in strict
honesty, I ought to undeceive it.  So I would, my lord, if it were not for my peculiar situation;
but at the same time I never will, if possible, be guilty of direct deceit; that is to say,
I would not take advantage of my supposed wealth, to marry a young person of large fortune.
I would state myself a beggar, and gain her affections as a beggar.  A woman can have little
confidence in a man who deceives her before marriage."

"Your secret will always be safe with me, Mr Newland; you have a right to demand it.  I am
glad to hear the sentiments which you have expressed; they are not founded, perhaps, upon the
strictest code of morality; but there are many who profess more who do not act up to so much.
Still, I wish you would think in what way I may be able to serve you, for your life at present
is useless and unprofitable, and may tend to warp still more, ideas which are not quite so
strict as they ought to be."

"My lord, I have but one object in allowing the world to continue in their error relative to
my means, which is, that it procures for me an entrance into that society in which I have a
moral conviction that I shall find my father.  I have but one pursuit, one end to attain, which
is, to succeed in that search.  I return you a thousand thanks for your kind expressions and
good will; but I cannot, at present, avail myself of them.  I beg your lordship's pardon, but
did you ever meet the lady with the ear-rings?"

Lord Windermear smiled.  "Really, Mr Newland, you are a very strange person; not content with
finding out your own parents, you must also be searching after other people's; not that I do
not commend your conduct in this instance; but I'm afraid, in running after shadows, you are
too indifferent to the substance."

"Ah, my lord! it is very well for you to argue who have had a father and mother, and never
felt the want of them; but if you knew how my heart yearns after my parents, you would not
be surprised at my perseverance."

"I am surprised at nothing in this world, Mr Newland; everyone pursues happiness in his own
way; your happiness appears to be centred in one feeling, and you are only acting as the world
does in general; but recollect that the search after happiness ends in disappointment."

"I grant it but too often does, my lord; but there is pleasure in the chase," replied I.

"Well, go, and may you prosper.  All I can say is this, Mr Newland; do not have that false
pride not to apply to me when you need assistance. Recollect, it is much better to be under
an obligation, if such you will consider it, than to do that which is wrong; and that it is
a very false pride which would blush to accept a favour, and yet not blush to do what it ought
to be ashamed of.  Promise me, Mr Newland, that upon any reverse or exigence, you will apply
to me."

"I candidly acknowledge to your lordship, that I would rather be under an obligation to anyone
but you; and I trust you will clearly appreciate my feelings.  I have taken the liberty of
refunding the one thousand pounds you were so kind as to place at my disposal as a loan.  At
the same time I will promise, that, if at any time I should require your assistance, I will
again request leave to become your debtor."  I rose again to depart.

"Farewell, Newland; when I thought you had behaved ill, and I offered to better you, you only
demanded my good opinion; you have it, and have it so firmly, that it will not easily be shaken."
His lordship then shook hands with me, and I took my leave.

On my return I found Emmanuel, the money-lender, who had accompanied Timothy, fancying that
I was in want of more assistance, and but too willing to give it.  His surprise was very great
when I told him that I wished to repay the money I had borrowed.

"Vell, dis is very strange!  I have lent my monish a tousand times, and never once they did
offer it me back.  Vell, I will take it, sar."

"But how much must I give you, Mr Emmanuel, for the ten days' loan?"

"How moch--vy you remember, you vill give de bond money--de fifteen hundred."

"What! five hundred pounds interest for ten days, Mr Emmanuel; no, no, that's rather too bad.
I will, if you please, pay you back eleven hundred pounds, and that I think is very handsome."

"I don't want my monish, my good sar.  I lend you one tousand pounds, on de condition that
you pay me fifteen hundred when you come into your properties, which will be in very short
time.  You send for me, and tell me you vish to pay back de monish directly; I never refuse
monish--if you wish to pay, I will take, but I will not take von farding less dan de monish
on de bond."

"Very well, Mr Emmanuel, just as you please; I offer you your money back, in presence of my
servant, and one hundred pounds for the loan of it for ten days.  Refuse it if you choose,
but I earnestly recommend you to take it."

"I will not have de monish, sar; dis is de child's play," replied the Jew.  "I must have my
fifteen hundred--all in goot time, sar--I am in no hurry--I vish you a very good morning, Mr
Newland.  Ven you vish for more monish to borrow, I shall be happy to pay my respects."  So
saying, the Jew walked out of the room, with his arm behind his back as usual.

PART TWO, CHAPTER NINE.

I DECIDE UPON HONESTY AS THE BEST POLICY, AND WHAT IS MORE STRANGE, RECEIVE LEGAL ADVICE UPON
THIS IMPORTANT POINT.

Timothy and I burst into laughter.  "Really, Timothy," observed I, "it appears that very little
art is necessary to deceive the world, for in every instance they will deceive themselves.
The Jew is off my conscience, at all events, and now he never will be paid, until--"

"Until when, Japhet?"

"Until I find out my father," replied I.

"Everything is put off till that time arrives, I observe," said Timothy. "Other people will
soon be as interested in the search as yourself."

"I wish they were; unfortunately it is a secret, which cannot be divulged."

A ring at the bell called Timothy down stairs; he returned with a letter, it was from Lord
Windermear, and ran as follows:--

  "My dear Newland,--I have been thinking about you ever since you left
  me this morning, and as you appear resolved to prosecute your search,
  it has occurred to me that you should go about it in a more systematic
  way.  I do not mean to say that what I now propose will prove of any
  advantage to you, but still it may, as you will have a very old, and
  very clever head to advise with.  I refer to Mr Masterton, my legal
  adviser, from whom you had the papers which led to our first
  acquaintance.  He is aware that you were (I beg your pardon) an
  impostor, as he has since seen Mr Estcourt.  The letter enclosed is
  for him, and with that in your hand you may face him boldly, and I
  have no doubt but that he will assist you all in his power, and put
  you to no expense.  Narrate your whole history to him, and then you
  will hear what he may propose.  He has many secrets, much more
  important than yours.  Wishing you every success that your
  perseverance deserves, Believe me,--

  "Yours very truly,--

  "Windermear."

"I believe the advice to be good," said I, after reading the letter.  "I am myself at fault,
and hardly know how to proceed.  I think I will go at once to the old gentleman, Timothy."

"It can do no harm, if it does no good.  Two heads are better than one," replied Timothy. 
"Some secrets are too well kept, and deserting a child is one of those which is confided but
to few."

"By-the-by, Timothy, here have I been, more than so many years out of the Foundling Hospital,
and have never yet inquired if anyone has ever been to reclaim me."

"Very true; and I think I'll step myself to the workhouse, at Saint Bridget's, and ask whether
anyone has asked about me," replied Timothy, with a grin.

"There is another thing that I have neglected," observed I, "which is, to inquire at the address
in Coleman Street, if there is any letter from Melchior."

"I have often thought of him," replied Timothy.  "I wonder who he can be--there is another
mystery there.  I wonder whether we shall ever fall in with him again--and Nattee, too?"

"There's no saying, Timothy.  I wonder where that poor fool, Philotas, and our friend Jumbo,
are now?"

The remembrance of the two last personages made us both burst out a laughing.

"Timothy, I've been reflecting that my intimacy with poor Carbonnell has rather hindered than
assisted me in my search.  He found me with a good appearance, and he has moulded me into a
gentleman, so far as manners, and appearance are concerned; but the constant vortex, in which
I have been whirled in his company has prevented me from doing anything.  His melancholy death
has perhaps been fortunate for me.  It has left me more independent in circumstances and more
free.  I must now really set to in earnest."

"I beg your pardon, Japhet, but did not you say the same when we first set off on our travels,
and yet remain more than a year with the gipsies?  Did not you make the same resolution when
we arrived in town, with our pockets full of money, and yet, once into fashionable society,
think but little, and occasionally, of it?  Now you make the same resolution, and how long
will you keep it?"

"Nay, Timothy, that remark is hardly fair; you know that the subject is ever in my thoughts."

"In your thoughts, I grant, very frequently; but you have still been led away from the search."

"I grant it, but I presume that arises from not knowing how to proceed. I have a skein to unravel,
and cannot find out an end to commence with."

"I always thought people commenced with the beginning," replied Tim, laughing.

"At all events, I will now try back, and face the old lawyer.  Do you call at Coleman Street,
Tim, and at Saint Bridget's also, if you please."

"As for Saint Bridget's, I'm in no particular hurry about my mother; if I stumble upon her
I may pick her up, but I never make diligent search after what, in every probability, will
not be worth the finding."

Leaving Timothy to go his way, I walked to the house at Lincoln's Inn, which I had before entered
upon the memorable occasion of the papers of Estcourt.  As before, I rang the bell, the door
swang open, and I was once more in the presence of Mr Masterton.

"I have a letter, sir," said I, bowing, and presenting the letter from Lord Windermear.

The old gentleman peered at me through his spectacles.  "Why! we have met before--bless me--why
you're the rogue that--"

"You are perfectly right, sir," interrupted I.  "I am the rogue who presented the letter from
Lord Windermear, and who presents you with another from the same person; do me the favour to
read it, while I take a chair."

"Upon my soul--you impudent--handsome dog, I must say--great pity--come for money, I suppose.
Well, it's a sad world," muttered the lawyer as he broke open the letter of Lord Windermear.

I made no reply, but watched his countenance, which changed to that of an expression of surprise.
"Had his lordship sent me a request to have you hanged, if possible," said Mr Masterton, "I
should have felt no surprise; but in this letter he praises you, and desires me to render you
all the service in my power.  I can't understand it."

"No, sir; but if you have leisure to listen to me, you will then find that, in this world,
we may be deceived by appearances."

"Well, and so I was, when I first saw you; I never could have believed you to be--but never mind."

"Perhaps, sir, in an hour or two you will again alter your opinion.  Are you at leisure, or
will you make an appointment for some future day?"

"Mr Newland, I am not at leisure--I never was more busy; and if you had come on any legal business,
I should have put you off for three or four days, at least; but my curiosity is so raised,
that I am determined that I will indulge it at the expense of my interest.  I will turn the
key, and then you will oblige me by unravelling, what, at present, is to me as curious as it
is wholly incomprehensible."

PART TWO, CHAPTER TEN.

I ATTEMPT TO PROFIT BY INTELLIGENCE I RECEIVE, AND THROW A LADY INTO HYSTERICS.

In about three hours I had narrated the history of my life, up to the very day, almost as much
detailed as it has been to the reader.  "And now, Mr Masterton," said I, as I wound up my narrative,
"do you think that I deserve the title of rogue, which you applied to me when I came in?"

"Upon my word, Mr Newland, I hardly know what to say; but I like to tell the truth.  To say
that you have been quite honest, would not be correct--a rogue, to a certain degree, you have
been, but you have been the rogue of circumstances.  I can only say this, that there are greater
rogues than you, whose characters are unblemished in the world--that most people in your peculiar
situation would have been much greater rogues; and, lastly, that rogue or not rogue, I have
great pleasure in taking you by the hand, and will do all I possibly can to serve you--and
that for your own sake.  Your search after your parents I consider almost tantamount to a wild-goose
chase; but still, as your happiness depends upon it, I suppose it must be carried on; but you
must allow me time for reflection.  I will consider what may be the most judicious method of
proceeding.  Can you dine tete-a-tete with me here on Friday, and we then will talk over the
matter?"

"On Friday, sir; I am afraid that I am engaged to Lady Maelstrom; but that is of no consequence--I
will write an excuse to her ladyship."

"Lady Maelstrom! how very odd that you should bring up her name after our conversation."

"Why so, my dear sir?"

"Why!" replied Mr Masterton, chuckling; "because--recollect, it is a secret, Mr Newland--I
remember some twenty years ago, when she was a girl of eighteen, before she married, she had
a little faux pas, and I was called in about a settlement, for the maintenance of the child."

"Is it possible, sir?" replied I, anxiously.

"Yes, she was violently attached to a young officer, without money, but of good family; some
say it was a private marriage, others, that he was--a rascal.  It was all hushed up; but he
was obliged by the friends, before he left for the West Indies, to sign a deed of maintenance,
and I was the party called in.  I never heard any more about it.  The officer's name was Warrender:
he died of the yellow fever, I believe, and after his death she married Lord Maelstrom."

"He is dead, then?" replied, I mournfully.

"Well, that cannot affect you, my good fellow.  On Friday, then, at six o'clock precisely.
Good afternoon, Mr Newland."

I shook hands with the old gentleman, and returned home, but my brain whirled with the fear
of a confirmation, of that which Mr Masterton had so carelessly conveyed.  Anything like a
possibility, immediately was swelled to a certainty in my imagination, so ardent and heated
on the one subject; and as soon as I regained my room, I threw myself on the sofa, and fell
into a deep reverie.  I tried to approximate the features of Lady Maelstrom to mine, but all
the ingenuity in the world could not affect that; but still, I might be like my father--but
my father was dead, and that threw a chill over the whole glowing picture which I had, as usual,
conjured up; besides, it was asserted that I was born in wedlock, and there was a doubt relative
to the marriage of her ladyship.

After a long cogitation I jumped up, seized my hat, and set off for Grosvenor Square, determining
to ask a private interview with her ladyship, and at once end my harassing doubts and surmises.
I think there could not be a greater proof of my madness than my venturing to attack a lady
of forty upon the irregularities of her youth, and to question her upon a subject which had
been confided but to two or three, and she imagined had been long forgotten: but this never
struck me; all considerations were levelled in my ardent pursuit.  I walked through the streets
at a rapid pace, the crowd passed by me as shadows, I neither saw nor distinguished them; I
was deep in reverie as to the best way of breaking the subject to her ladyship, for, notwithstanding
my monomania, I perceived it to be a point of great delicacy.  After having overturned about
twenty people in my mad career, I arrived at the door and knocked. My heart beat almost as
hard against my ribs with excitement.

"Is her ladyship at home?"

"Yes, sir."

I was ushered into the drawing-room, and found her sitting with two of her nieces, the Misses
Fairfax.

"Mr Newland, you have been quite a stranger," said her ladyship, as I walked up to her and
made my obeisance.  "I did intend to scold you well; but I suppose that sad affair of poor
Major Carbonnell's has been a heavy blow to you--you were so intimate--lived together, I believe,
did you not?  However, you have not so much cause to regret, for he was not a very proper companion
for young men like you: to tell you the truth, I consider it as a fortunate circumstance that
he was removed, for he would, by degrees, have led you into all manner of mischief, and have
persuaded you to squander your fortune.  I did at one time think of giving you a hint, but
it was a delicate point.  Now that he is gone, I tell you very candidly that you have had an
escape.  A young man like you, Mr Newland, who could command an alliance into the highest,
yes, the very highest families--and let me tell you, Mr Newland, that there is nothing like
connection--money is of no consequence to you, but connection, Mr Newland, is what you should
look for--connection with some high family, and then you will do well.  I should like to see
you settled--well settled, I mean, Mr Newland.  Now that you are rid of the major, who has
ruined many young men in his time, I trust you will seriously think of settling down into a
married man.  Cecilia, my dear, show your tambour work to Mr Newland, and ask him his opinion.
Is it not beautiful, Mr Newland?"

"Extremely beautiful, indeed, ma'am," replied I, glad at last that her ladyship allowed me
to speak a word.

"Emma, my dear, you look pale, you must go out into the air.  Go, children, put your bonnets
on and take a turn in the garden; when the carriage comes round I will send for you."

The young ladies quitted the room.  "Nice innocent girls, Mr Newland; but you are not partial
to blondes, I believe?"

"Indeed, Lady Maelstrom, I infinitely prefer the blonde to the brunette."

"That proves your taste, Mr Newland.  The Fairfaxes are of a very old family--Saxon, Mr Newland.
Fairfax is Saxon for light hair.  Is is not remarkable that they should be blondes to this
day?  Pure blood, Mr Newland.  You, of course, have heard of General Fairfax in the time of
Cromwell.  He was their direct ancestor--an excellent family and highly connected, Mr Newland.
You are aware that they are my nieces.  My sister married Mr Fairfax."

I paid the Misses Fairfax the compliments which I thought they really deserved, for they were
very pretty amiable girls, and required no puffing on the part of her ladyship; and then I
commenced.  "Your ladyship has expressed such kind wishes towards me, that I cannot be sufficiently
grateful; but, perhaps, your ladyship may think me romantic, I am resolved never to marry,
except for love."

"A very excellent resolve, Mr Newland; there are few young men who care about love now-a-days,
but I consider that love is a great security for happiness in the wedded state."

"True, madam, and what can be more delightful than a first attachment? I appeal to your ladyship,
was not your first attachment the most delightful--are not the reminiscences most lasting--do
you not, even now, call to mind those halcyon days when love was all and everything?"

"My days of romance are long past, Mr Newland," replied her ladyship; "indeed I never had much
romance in my composition.  I married Lord Maelstrom for the connection, and I loved him pretty
well, that is, soberly, Mr Newland.  I mean, I loved him quite enough to marry him, and to
obey my parents, that is all."

"But, my dear Lady Maelstrom, I did not refer to your marriage with his lordship; I referred
to your first love."

"My first love, Mr Newland; pray what do you mean?" replied her ladyship, looking very hard at me.

"Your ladyship need not be ashamed of it.  Our hearts are not in our own keeping, nor can we
always control our passions.  I have but to mention the name of Warrender."

"Warrender!" shrieked her ladyship.  "Pray, Mr Newland," continued her ladyship, recovering
herself, "who gave you that piece of information?"

"My dear Lady Maelstrom, pray do not be displeased with me, but I am very particularly interested
in this affair.  Your love for Mr Warrender, long before your marriage, is well known to me;
and it is to that love, to which I referred, when I asked you if it was not most delightful."

"Well, Mr Newland," replied her ladyship, "how you have obtained the knowledge I know not,
but there was, I acknowledge, a trifling flirtation with Edward Warrender and me--but I was
young, very young at that time."

"I grant it; and do not, for a moment, imagine that I intend to blame your ladyship; but, as
I before said, madam, I am much interested in the business."

"What interest can you have with a little flirtation of mine, which took place before you were
born, I cannot imagine, Mr Newland."

"It is because it took place before I was born, that I feel so much interest."

"I cannot understand you, Mr Newland, and I think we had better change the subject."

"Excuse me, madam, but I must request to continue it a little longer. Is Mr Warrender dead
or not?  Did he die in the West Indies?"

"You appear to be very curious on this subject, Mr Newland; I hardly can tell.  Yes, now I
recollect, he did die of the yellow fever, I think--but I have quite forgotten all about it--and
I shall answer no more questions; if you were not a favourite of mine, Mr Newland, I should
say that you were very impertinent."

"Then, your ladyship, I will put but one more question, and that one I must put with your permission."

"I should think, after what I have said, Mr Newland, that you might drop the subject."

"I will, your ladyship, immediately; but pardon me the question--"

"Mr Newland--?"

"Do not be angry with me--"

"Well?" exclaimed her ladyship, who appeared alarmed.

"Nothing but the most important and imperative reasons could induce me to ask the question,"
(her ladyship gasped for breath, and could not speak,)--I stammered, but at last I brought
it out.  "What has become of--of--of the sweet pledge of your love, Lady Maelstrom?"

Her ladyship coloured up with rage, raised up her clenched hand, and then fell back in violent
hysterics.

PART TWO, CHAPTER ELEVEN.

I REPAIR THE DAMAGE, AND MAKE THINGS WORSE--PLOT AND COUNTERPLOT--TIM GAINS A WATCH BY SETTING
WATCH UPON HIS TONGUE.

I hardly knew how to act--if I called the servants, my interview would be at an end, and I
was resolved to find out the truth--for the same reason, I did not like to ring for water.
Some vases with flowers were on the table; I took out the flowers, and threw the water in her
face, but they had been in the water some time, and had discoloured it green. Her ladyship's
dress was a high silk gown, of a bright slate colour, and was immediately spoiled; but this
was no time to stand upon trifles.  I seized hold of a glass bottle, fancying, in my hurry,
it was eau de cologne, or some essence, and poured a little into her mouth; unfortunately,
it was a bottle of marking ink, which her ladyship, who was very economical, had on the table
in disguise.  I perceived my error, and had recourse to another vase of flowers, pouring a
large quantity of the green water down her throat.  Whether the unusual remedies had an effect,
or not, I cannot tell, but her ladyship gradually revived, and, as she leant back on the sofa,
sobbing every now and then, convulsively, I poured into her ear a thousand apologies, until
I thought she was composed enough to listen to me.

"Your ladyship's maternal feelings," said I.

"It's all a calumny! a base lie, sir!" shrieked she.

"Nay, nay, why be ashamed of a youthful passion; why deny what was in itself creditable to
your unsophisticated mind.  Does not your heart, even now, yearn to embrace your son--will
not you bless me, if I bring him to your feet--will not you bless your son, and receive him
with delight?"

"It was a girl," screamed her ladyship, forgetting herself, and again falling into hysterics.

"A girl!" replied I; "then I have lost my time, and it is no use my remaining here."

Mortified at the intelligence which overthrew my hopes and castle buildings, I seized my hat,
descended the stairs, and quitted the house; in my hurry and confusion quite forgetting to
call the servants to her ladyship's assistance.  Fortunately I perceived the Misses Fairfax
close to the iron railing of the garden.  I crossed the road, wished them good-bye, and told
them that I thought Lady Maelstrom looked very ill, and they had better go in to her.  I then
threw myself into the first hackney-coach, and drove home.  I found Timothy had arrived before
me, and I narrated all that had passed.

"You will never be able to go there again," observed Timothy, "and depend upon it, she will
be your enemy through life.  I wish you had not said anything to her."

"What is done cannot be undone; but recollect, that if she can talk, I can talk also."

"Will she not be afraid?"

"Yes, openly, she will; and open attacks can be parried."

"Very true."

"But it will be as well to pacify her, if I can.  I will write to her." I sat down and wrote
as follows:--

  "My dear Lady Maelstrom,--I am so astonished and alarmed at the
  situation I put you in, by my impertinence and folly, that I hardly
  know how to apologise.  The fact is, that looking over some of my
  father's old letters, I found many from Warrender, in which he spoke
  of an affair with a young lady, and I read the name as your maiden
  name, and also discovered where the offspring was to be found.  On
  re-examination, for your innocence was too evident at our meeting to
  admit of a doubt, I find that the name, although something like yours,
  is spelt very differently, and that I must have been led into an
  unpardonable error.  What can I say except that I throw myself on your
  mercy?  I dare not appear before you again.  I leave town to-morrow;
  but if you can pardon my folly and impertinence, and allow me to pay
  my respects when London is full again, and time shall have softened
  down your just anger, write me one line to that effect, and you will
  relieve the burdened conscience of--

  "Yours most truly,--

  "J. Newland."

"There, Tim," said I, as I finished reading it over, "take that as a sop to the old Cerberus.
She may think it prudent, as I have talked of letters, to believe me and make friends.  I will
not trust her, nevertheless."

Tim went away, and very soon returned with an answer.

  "You are a foolish mad-cap, and I ought to shut my doors against you;
  you have half killed me--spoilt my gown, and I am obliged to keep my
  bed.  Remember, in future, to be sure of the right name before you
  make an assertion.  As for forgiving you, I shall think of it, and
  when you return to town, you may call and receive my sentence.
  Cecilia was quite frightened, poor dear girl: what a dear affectionate
  child she is!--she is a treasure to me, and I don't think I ever could
  part with her.  She sends her regards.

  "Yours,--

  "C. Maelstrom."

"Come, Timothy, at all events this is better than I expected--but now I'll tell you what I
propose to do.  Harcourt was with me yesterday, and he wishes me to go down with him to --.
There will be the assizes, and the county ball, and a great deal of gaiety, and I have an idea
that it is just as well to beat the county as the town.  I dine with Mr Masterton on Friday.
On Saturday I will go down and see Fleta, and on Tuesday or Wednesday I will start with Harcourt
to his father's, where he has promised me a hearty welcome.  Was there anything at Coleman Street?"

"Yes, sir; Mr Iving said that he had just received a letter from your correspondent, and that
he wished to know if the little girl was well; I told him that she was.  Mr Iving laid the
letter down on the desk, and I read the post-mark, Dublin."

"Dublin," replied I.  "I should like to find out who Melchior is--and so I will as soon as I can."

"Well, sir, I have not finished my story.  Mr Iving said, `My correspondent wishes to know
whether the education of the little girl is attended to?'  `Yes,' replied I, `it is.'  `Is
she at school?'  `Yes, she has been at school ever since we have been in London.'  `Where is
she at school?' inquired he.  Now, sir, as I never was asked that question by him before, I
did not know whether I ought to give an answer, so I replied, `that I did not know.'  `You
know whether she is in London or not, do you not?'  `How should I?' replied I, `master had
put her to school before I put on his liveries.'  `Does he never go to see her?' inquired he.
`I suppose so,' said I.  `Then you really know nothing about it?--then look you, my lad, I
am anxious to find out where she is at school, and the name of the people, and if you will
find out the direction for me, it will be money in your pocket, that's all.' `Um,' replied
I, `but how much?'  `Why, more than you think for, my man, it will be a ten-pound note.'  `That
alters the case,' replied I; `now I think again, I have an idea that I do remember seeing her
address on a letter my master wrote to her.'  `Ay,' replied Mr Iving, `it's astonishing how
money sharpens the memory.  I'll keep to my bargain; give me the address, and here's the ten-pound
note.'  `I'm afraid that my master will be angry,' said I, as if I did not much like to tell
him. `Your master will never know anything about it, and you may serve a long time before he
gives you a ten-pound note above your wages.' `That's very true,' said I, `sarvice is no inheritance.
Well, then, give me the money, and I'll write it down.'"

"And did you give it?" interrupted I.

"Stop a moment, sir, and you shall hear.  I wrote down the address of that large school at
Kensington, which we pass when we go to Mr Aubrey White's."

"What that tremendous large board with yellow letters--Mrs Let--what is it?"

"Mrs Lipscombe's seminary--I always read the board every time I go up and down.  I gave him
the address, Miss Johnson, at Mrs Lipscombe's seminary, Kensington.  Well--and here's the ten-pound
note, sir, which I have fairly earned."

"Fairly earned, Tim?"

"Yes, fairly earned; for it's all fair to cheat those who would cheat you."

"I cannot altogether agree with you on that point, Tim, but it certainly is no more than they
deserve; but this is matter for reflection.  Why should Melchior wish to find out her address
without my knowledge?-- depend upon it, there is something wrong."

"That's what I said to myself coming home; and I made up my mind, that, for some reason or
another, he wishes to regain possession of her."

"I entertain the same idea, Timothy, and I am glad you have disappointed him.  I will take
care that they shall not find her out, now that I am upon my guard."

"But, sir, I wish to draw one good moral from this circumstance; which is, that if you had
been served by any common footman, your interest would, in all probability, have been sacrificed
to the ten-pound note; and that not only in this instance, but in many others, I did a very
wise thing in taking my present situation."

"I am but too well aware of that, Tim, my dear fellow," said I, extending my hand, "and depend
upon it, that if I rise, you do.  You know me well enough by this time."

"Yes, I do, Japhet, and had rather serve you than the first nobleman in the land.  I'm going
to purchase a watch with this ten-pound note, and I never shall look at it without remembering
the advantage of keeping a watch over my tongue."

PART TWO, CHAPTER TWELVE.

I FALL VERY MUCH IN LOVE WITH HONESTY, BECAUSE I FIND THAT IT IS WELL RECEIVED IN THE WORLD--AND
TO PROVE MY HONESTY, INFORM THE WHOLE WORLD THAT HONEST I HAVE NEVER BEEN.

I proved the will of Major Carbonnell, in which there was no difficulty; and then I sat down
to consider in what way I might best husband my resources.  The house was in good repair, and
well furnished.  At the time that I lived with the major, we had our drawing-room, and his
bed-room and another room equally large, used as his dressing-room, on the first floor.  The
second floor was appropriated to me, and the sitting-room was used as a dining-room when we
dined at home, which was but seldom.  The basement was let as a shop, at one hundred pounds
per annum, but we had a private door, for entrance, and the kitchens and attics.  I resolved
to retain only the first floor, and let the remainder of the house; and I very soon got a tenant
at sixty pounds per annum.  The attics were appropriated to Timothy and the servants belonging
to the lodger.

After having disposed of what was of no service to me, I found that, deducting the thousand
pounds paid into the banker's, for Lord Windermear, I had a little above three thousand pounds
in ready money, and what to do with this I could not well decide.  I applied to Mr Masterton,
stating the exact amount of my finances, on the day that I dined with him, and he replied,
"You have two good tenants, bringing you in one hundred and sixty pounds per annum--if this
money is put out on mortgage, I can procure you five per cent, which will be one hundred and
fifty pounds per annum.  Now, the question is, do you think that you can live upon three hundred
and ten pounds per annum?  You have no rent to pay; and I should think that, as you are not
at any great expense for a servant, you might, with economy, do very well.  Recollect, that
if your money is lent on mortgage you will not be able to obtain it at a moment's warning.
So reflect well before you decide."

I consulted with Timothy, and agreed to lend the money reserving about two hundred pounds to
go on with, until I should receive my rents and interest.  On the Friday I went to dine with
Mr Masterton, and narrated what had passed between me and Lady Maelstrom.  He was very much
diverted, and laughed immoderately.  "Upon my faith, Mr Newland, but you have a singular species
of madness; you first attack Lord Windermear, then a bishop, and, to crown all, you attack
a dowager peeress.  I must acknowledge, that if you do not find out your parents, it will not
be for want of inquiry.  Altogether, you are a most singular character; your history is most
singular, and your good fortune is equally so.  You have made more friends before you have
come to age, than most people do in their whole lives.  You commence the world with nothing,
and here you are, with almost a competence--have paid off a loan of one thousand pounds, which
was not required--and are moving in the best society.  Now the only drawback I perceive in
all this is, that you are in society under false colours, having made people suppose that you
are possessed of a large fortune."

"It was not exactly my assertion, sir."

"No, I grant, not exactly; but you have been a party to it, and I cannot allow that there is
any difference.  Now, do you mean to allow this supposition to remain uncontradicted?"

"I hardly know what to say, sir; if I were to state that I have nothing but a bare competence,
it will be only injurious to the memory of Major Carbonnell.  All the world will suppose that
he has ruined me, and that I had the fortune, whereas, on the contrary, it is to him that I
am indebted for my present favourable position."

"That may be very true, Mr Newland; but if I am to consider you as my protege, and I may add,
the protege of Lord Windermear, I must make you quite honest--I will be no party to fraud in
any shape.  Are you prepared to resign your borrowed plumes, and appear before the world as
you really are?"

"There is but one inducement, sir, for me to wish that the world may still deceive themselves.
I may be thrown out of society, and lose the opportunity of discovering my parents."

"And pray, Mr Newland, which do you think is more likely to tend to the discovery, a general
knowledge that you are a foundling in search of your parents, or your present method, of taxing
everybody upon suspicion.  If your parents wish to reclaim you, they will then have their eyes
directed towards you, from your position being known; and I will add, there are few parents
who will not be proud of you as a son. You will have the patronage of Lord Windermear, which
will always secure you a position in society, and the good wishes of all, although, I grant,
that such worldly people as Lady Maelstrom may strike your name off their porter's list.  You
will, moreover, have the satisfaction of knowing that the friends which you make have not been
made under false colours and appearances, and a still further satisfaction, arising from a
good conscience."

"I am convinced, sir, and I thank you for your advice.  I will now be guided by you in everything."

"Give me your hand, my good lad, I now will be your friend to the utmost of my power."

"I only wish, sir," replied I, much affected, "that you were also my father."

"Thank you for the wish, as it implies that you have a good opinion of me.  What do you mean
to do?"

"I have promised my friend Mr Harcourt to go down with him to his father's."

"Well."

"And before I go I will undeceive him."

"You are right; you will then find whether he is a friend to you or to your supposed ten thousand
pounds per annum.  I have been reflecting, and I am not aware that anything else can be done
at present than acknowledging to the world who you really are, which is more likely to tend
to the discovery of your parents than any other means, but at the same time I shall not be
idle.  All we lawyers have among us strange secrets, and among my fraternity, to whom I shall
speak openly, I think it possible that something may be found out which may serve as a clue.
Do not be annoyed at being cut by many, when your history is known; those who cut you are those
whose acquaintance and friendship are not worth having; it will unmask your flatterers from
your friends, and you will not repent of your having been honest; in the end, it is the best
policy, even in a worldly point of view.  Come to me as often as you please; I am always at
home to you, and always your friend."

Such was the result of my dinner with Mr Masterton which I narrated to Timothy as soon as I
returned home.  "Well, Japhet, I think you have found a real friend in Mr Masterton, and I
am glad that you have decided upon following his advice.  As for me, I am not under false colours,
I am in my right situation, and wish no more."

In pursuance of my promise to Mr Masterton, I called upon Harcourt the next morning, and after
stating my intention to go down for a day or two into the country to see a little girl who
was under my care, I said to him, "Harcourt, as long as we were only town acquaintances, mixing
in society, and under no peculiar obligation to each other, I did not think it worth while
to undeceive you on a point in which Major Carbonnell was deceived himself, and has deceived
others; but now that you have offered to introduce me into the bosom of your family, I cannot
allow you to remain in error.  It is generally supposed that I am about to enter into a large
property when I come of age; now, so far from that being the case, I have nothing in the world
but a bare competence, and the friendship of Lord Windermear.  In fact, I am a deserted child,
ignorant of my parents, and most anxious to discover them, as I have every reason to suppose
that I am of no mean birth.  I tell you this candidly, and unless you renew the invitation,
shall consider that it has not been given."

Harcourt remained a short time without answering.  "You really have astonished me, Newland;
but," continued he, extending his hand, "I admire--I respect you, and I feel that I shall like
you better.  With ten thousand pounds a year, you were above me--now we are but equals. I,
as a younger brother, have but a bare competence, as well as you; and as for parents--for the
benefit I now derive from them, I might as well have none.  Not but my father is a worthy,
fine old gentleman, but the estates are entailed; he is obliged to keep up his position in
society, and he has a large family to provide for, and he can do no more.  You have indeed
an uncommon moral courage to have made this confession.  Do you wish it to be kept a secret?"

"On the contrary, I wish the truth to be known."

"I am glad that you say so, as I have mentioned you as a young man of large fortune to my father;
but I feel convinced, when I tell him this conversation, he will be much more pleased in taking
you by the hand, than if you were to come down and propose to one of my sisters.  I repeat
the invitation with double the pleasure that I gave it at first."

"I thank you, Harcourt," replied I; "some day I will tell you more. The scene, as they marched, is one that will live in memory of the boys
of Battery D. It was no dress parade such undeterred as the march of like
thousands in a civilian city would occasion. On December 6th, 1917,
a series of regimental practice marches were instituted, first on
foot, then on mount.

First- Lieut. J.  S. Waterfield, of Portsmouth, Va., served as an attached officer
with D Battery for some time. The morning of Friday, April 26th, was declared
a holiday at Camp Meade; all units being called forth to participate in a divisional
parade and Liberty Loan rally. France, moreover, was the goal and the
real range practice was left as a matter of course for over there. Christmas
and New Year' s of 1917 furnished another controversy on the question
of holiday furloughs.

Barrack 0103, about half the size and situated in the rear of 019,
was completed on December 19th, when a portion of Battery D men were
quartered in the new structure, thereby relieving the congestion in
019.

More disappointments were in store for the boys before their dreams of a furlough home were realized. The
detail completed its task faithfully, the men being happy in the thought
that, according to instructions, they had, the night previous, made
application for Christmas passes.

The erection of a new flag pole in front of regimental headquarters furnished occasion for the formal formation when
the Stars and Stripes are lowered to the strain of" The Star Spangled Banner" or the" Call to the
stable- sergeant, who was Anthony Fritzen, of Scranton, Penna. Sergeants and corporals had to get busy
and chop wood and carry coal and wash dishes and police up and in many other ways imitate the buck
private. First authentic signs of departure from Camp Meade came during the month of June when
the boys witnessed the departure of the infantry regiments of the
division.

When the guard detail was furnished there were scarcely enough men left to do the kitchen police
work and other detail to the Colors." A case of measles developed in the battery and an eighteen- day
quarantine went into effect on January 19th.

CHAPTER VII. The loudest yell that ever greeted the" dismissed" command at the close of retreat, rent the
atmosphere at that time.

On Saturday, December 15th, inspection was called off and forty men were detailed to bring more horses
from the Remount station for use in the battery. When the inspectors made their tour each bunk had
to show a clean towel, tooth brush, soap, comb, pair of socks, and
suit of underwear.

Secretary of War Newton D. Baker visited the cantonment that day and the review was staged in his honor.
One gun for the regiment, however, and especially when received only several weeks in advance
of the departure for overseas, afforded but little opportunity for general direction on the mechanism
of the new field. piece. The regiment stood in formation until 3:
15 o' clock when the march to pass the reviewing stand started.

The ground was muddy and slushy. CHAPTER VIII. Every branch and department of military life has
a variety of inspections to undergo at periodical times. An hour later the same bunch were seen trudging
back to 019. Besides the cleanup features a display of toilet articles and wearing apparel had
to be made. A mix- up in train schedules left them stranded in camp
for the night, while the hours of their passes slowly ticked on, to
be lost to their enjoyment.

Stable
detail at first consisted of five" buck" privates, whose duty it was to take care of" Kaiser,"" Hay- Belly,"
and all the other battery horses for a period of three days. More favorable train connections
fell to the lot of the New Year' s sojourners to the land of" home."

The gloom was not shattered until December 20th, when announcement
a was made at retreat formation that half of the battery would be
allowed Christmas passes and the other half would be given furloughs
over New Year' s Day."

This is some job."

WELL GROOMED BY DETAIL.

And the opinion was unanimous when stable detail at Camp Meade was
in question, especially during the winter of 1917- 18, which the Baltimore
weather bureau recorded as the coldest in 101 years.

The" get- away" was successfully effected the next morning, Sunday,
December 23rd, when the same contingent marched to Disney, reaching the railroad
yard at 7: 30 o' clock, where they were doomed to wait until 9: 15
a. m. until the train left for Baltimore.

When the real stable eyes duties of the day commenced. During April
a decree went forth to the Battery that set details at work every day
clipping horses.

A permanent stable man was assigned for every stable and the detail was reduced to three privates.
If you were a speed artist you might get back in time for your own breakfast. Besides cleaning the
stables and" graining- up" for the horses, the day of the stable
police was spent in miscellaneous jobs, which Sergeant Fritzen never
ran out of.

About a score of battery members, who were attending speciality schools
and on special detail work, were quartered with Battery E of the regiment
while the quarantine lasted.

When it came to cleaning the stables, many a" buck" private made a resolve that in the next war he was
going to enlist as a" mule- skinner."

Stable police was of double import on Saturday mornings, preparatory to the
weekly inspection. It was a happy bunch that left 019 at 5: 15 p. m. that
day, under the direction of Lieut. Berkley Courtney, bound for the railroad
station and home.

A daily inspection of barracks was in order at Camp Meade. Nowhere
can a vast body of men live bachelor- like as soldiers do and maintain the
degree of tidiness and general sanitary healthfulness, as the thorough
arm of camp inspection and discipline maintains in the army.

The inspections keep the boys in khaki on the alert; cleanliness becoming
second nature.

The regiment
was in first class shape to look forward to service overseas, despite
the fact that range- practice was a negligible factor.

During the latter part of May, firing, to a limited extent, was practiced
from the three- inch field pieces directed over the Remount station, but
the experience thus gained was too light to be important. Everything had
to be left spick and span. Md., was assigned to temporary command of
the battery. With mops and brooms and plenty of water the barracks
were given a good scrubbing on Friday afternoons and things put in
shape for the Saturday morning inspection.

Their happiness had suddenly taken wing.

Saturday, December 22nd, was decreed a day of martial review at Camp Meade. The articles had to be
displayed on the bunk in a specific manner. On Saturday, March 30th, wrist
watches were turned to 11 o' clock when taps sounded, ushering in
the daylight savings scheme that routed the boys out for reveille
during the wee dark hours of the morning.

This inspection required the soldier to produce all his wares and equipment for inventory. The battery
took to the road at 8 a. m., and drove through Jessup, thence to West Elkridge, Md., a distance of
sixteen miles, where camp was pitched and the battery remained for the night,
returning to camp the following afternoon after several firing problems
in the field were worked out by proxy fire. There was also a field
inspection every Saturday morning, where the general appearance of
the soldier could be thoroughly scrutinized.

January 1920 ushered in a period of changes in the staff of officers
for Battery D, some of the changes being temporary, others permanent.

When the inspection was mounted, horses and harness had to shine,
the same as the men.

Clean- shaven, neatly polished shoes, clean uniform with buttons
all present and utilized, formed the determining percentage features.
Trials of sickness and quarantine were also in store for the battery.

While in Baltimore the outfit pitched camp in Clifton Park.

Captain Smith returned to camp the latter part of the month. Guard duty fell to the lot of the
battery once a week. Lieut. Robert S. Campbell was transferred from Battery D at this time. First-
Lieut. Arthur H. McGill was detached from the battery about this time and assigned as an instructor at
the Officers' Training School that was opened at Camp Meade.

Lieut.
Hugh M. Clarke also left the battery to attend the school of fire. First-
Lieut. Robert Lowndes, of Elkridge. There was a specific place for everything
and everything had to be kept in its place.

The first mounted marches, however, were rather sore- ending affairs,
as were the first lessons in equitation. David A. Reed became the instructor on
this gun, when it became known that the outfit would likely be given French
equipment upon arrival overseas.

James. Farrell, of Parsons, Penna., was appointed acting first- sergeant and
Thomas S. Pengelly, of Hazleton, Penna., was appointed acting supply
sergeant, both appointments later being made permanent.

At 4: 30 o' clock the review formation was dismissed and the boys dashed
back to 019 to get ready to leave on their Christmas furloughs. BATTERY
PROGRESS. Several, who it was deemed could not physically stand foreign
service, were in due time transferred to various posts of the home-
guards.

Gloom greeted the end of the day' s horse convoy.

When the formal retreat was established Battery D was in the throes
of a health quarantine.

Announcement was made that all Christmas pass orders had been rescinded in the camp. The stable detail
underwent changes as time wore on.

Wonderful days of activity within Battery D foretold the news of departure.
This quarantine kept Battery D from sharing in the Easter furloughs
to visit home.

Training during April centered on actual experience in taking to the march
with full mounted artillery sections. On March 6th Battery D took occasion
to celebrate.

A fine menu was prepared for the banquet that the was held on the
night of March 6th.

The battery kitchen had been thoroughly renovated by Mechanic Grover
C. Rothacker and Mechanic Conrad A. Balliet, both of Hazleton, Penna.,
the renovation placing it in the class of"

The best kitchen and mess hall in camp," to quote the words of Major General
Joseph E. Kuhn, divisional commander, when he inspected Battery D on Saturday,
March 23rd.

Col. Raymond Briggs and the battalion officers were guests at the banquet and
entertainment that was furnished in the barracks until taps sounded an hour
later than usual that night.

These details had a strenuous time of it; the hardest work most of
the detail accomplished was dodging lieutenants.

Details continued to play a big part in the life of Battery D. On March 11th the first detail of fifty men
was sent to repair the highway near Portland. Transfers had made
big inroads in the battery' s strength.

Some time later he was ordered to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, to attend the artillery school of fire. Void of demonstrative
sendoff, regiment after regiment, fully and newly equipped, was departing
on schedule; thousands and thousands of sturdy Americans, ready to
risk all for the ideals of liberty and freedom.

It was a time when rank imposed obligation. FAREWELL TO CAMP MEADE. On
March 5th Lieut. Frank Yeager inaugurated a system of daily inspections
at retreat, when the two neatest appearing men in line were cited
each day and rewarded with a week- end pass to visit Baltimore or
Washington, while those who got black marks for the week were put
on detail work over the week- end.

Rumor was ever present at Camp Meade. A list of honorable mentions was also established for general tidiness at" bunk"
inspections.

Almost every event that transpired was a token of early departure overseas,
or else the," latrine- dope" had it that the outfit was to be sent
to Tobyhanna for range practice. The battery carpenters and painters
were kept busy making boxes and labelling them properly for the" American
E.  F."" Retreat," the checking- in or accounting for all soldiers at the
close of a day' s routine, was made a formal affair for the 311th
Field Artillery on January 13th, 1918.

Several transfers were also made to the ordnance department; a number of chemists
were detached from the battery, and transfers listed for the cooks'
and bakers' school, for the quartermasters, for the engineers, for
the signal corps, in fact men were sent to practically all branches
in the division."

Show- Down" inspections were a big feature of the routine. The regular
routine of fatigue duty and drill formations took place during the
quarantine periods, the restrictions being placed on the men leaving
the battery area between drill hours.

April 4th, 1918, found a detail from Battery D leaving camp at 8 a. m.,
with a section of provisional battery, enroute to Baltimore to take
part in the big parade in honor of the opening of the Liberty Loan
drive on the first anniversary of America' s entrance into the war.

Early in January Capt. A.  L. Smith was called away from his military
duties on account of the death of his father, Edward B. Smith, of
Philadelphia, Penna.; a bereavement which brought forth many expressions
of sympathy from the men of his command.

The parade, which was reviewed by President Woodrow Wilson, took place on Saturday, April 6th. Harness
was being cleaned and packed. In leading the horses through the stable
to the corral, the length of your life was dependant upon your ability
to duck the hoofs of the ones remaining in the stables. Every one of
the one hundred and sixty- four battery horses was clipped. Saddles and bridles
were lacking as equipment for many weeks after the receipt of the
horses.

A battery hike in march order was set for May 6th. The supply officer and
supply sergeant of the battery made many rounds taking account of
equipment that was short, but several more" show- downs" usually transpired
before the lacking equipment was supplied. Chances for a quick departure
overseas began to warm up about the middle of May, which perhaps
was responsible for the big divisional bon- fire that was burned on
the night of May 13th.

After breakfast you immediately reported work.

It was with no unsteady step they marched through the streets of the military city that had sheltered,
trained, tanned, and improved them aright for the momentous task which
was before them.

Days that could not be devoted to out- door work were used to advantage
for the schedule of lecture periods during which the officers conducted
black board drills to visualize many of the problems connected with
artillery work.

Battery D men and others were spectators, it is true, and the departing
ones were sent off, as was later the case with Battery D, with cheers
of encouragement and words of God- speed-- the spirit breathed being
of hearty, thoughtful patriotism such as can come only from a soldier
who is bidding adieu to a comrade in arms, whom he will meet again
in a common cause.

On March 24th scarlet fever broke out and a second quarantine was put into effect. Before the boys answered
the first drill formation each morning they did the housework. About
this time a French type of 75 mm. field piece was shipped to the regiment.
First Sergeant William C. Thompson and Supply Sergeant Merle Liebensberger
were successful applicants to the officers' training school at Meade.

Battery D formed with the regiment on the battery street in front of
019 at 1: 20 o' clock on the afternoon of the review. Mounted drill,
riding bare- back, with nothing but a halter chain as a bridle, was
the initiatory degree of Battery D' s equitation.

All activity centered on getting ready to depart. The first real evidence of overseas on stable detail
you arose at 5: 45 a. m.; quietly dressed, without lights, went to the
stables and breakfasted the animals. Driving the battery wagon bore the earmarks
of being a job of more dignity than loading the wagon. CHAPTER IX.
The horses were then led to the corral and service presented itself
during March when physical examinations were in order to test physical
fitness for overseas duty.

The detachment returned to camp by road on Sunday, April 7th.
  On my arrival at Brentford I got out, and perceived that the man was on the roof. 
Of a sudden it flashed on my memory--it was the gipsy who had come to the camp with the communication
to Melchior, which induced him to quit it.  I recollected him--and his kneeling down by the
stream and washing his face.  The mystery was solved--Melchior had employed him to find out
the residence of Fleta.  In all probability they had applied to the false address given by
Timothy, and in consequence were trying, by watching my motions, to find out the true one.
"You shall be deceived, at all events," thought I, as I walked on through Brentford until I
came to a ladies' seminary.  I rang the bell, and was admitted, stating my wish to know the
terms of the school for a young lady, and contrived to make as long a stay as I could, promising
to call again, if the relatives of the young lady were as satisfied as I professed to be. 
On my quitting the house, I perceived that my gipsy attendant was not far off.  I took the
first stage back, and returned to my lodgings.  When I had told all that had occurred to Timothy,
he replied, "I think, sir, that if you could replace me for a week or two, I could now be of
great service.  He does not know me, and if I were to darken my face, and put on a proper dress,
I think I should have no difficulty in passing myself off as one of the tribe, knowing their
slang, and having been so much with them."

"But what good do you anticipate, Timothy?"

"My object is to find out where he puts up, and to take the same quarters--make his acquaintance,
and find out who Melchior is, and where he lives.  My knowledge of him and Nattee may perhaps
assist me."

"You must be careful, then, Timothy; for he may know sufficient of our history to suspect you."

"Let me alone, sir.  Do you like my proposal?"

"Yes, I do; you may commence your arrangements immediately."

PART TWO, CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

I SET OFF ON A WILD-GOOSE CHASE--AND FALL IN WITH AN OLD FRIEND.

The next morning Timothy had procured me another valet, and throwing off his liveries, made
his appearance in the evening, sending up to say a man wished to speak to me.  He was dressed
in high-low boots, worsted stockings, greasy leather small clothes, a shag waistcoat, and a
blue frock overall.  His face was stained of a dark olive, and when he was ushered in, Harcourt,
who was sitting at table with me, had not the slightest recognition of him.  As Harcourt knew
all my secrets, I had confided this; I had not told him what Timothy's intentions were, as
I wished to ascertain whether his disguise was complete.  I had merely said I had given Timothy
leave for a few days.

"Perhaps you may wish me away for a short time," said Harcourt, looking at Tim.

"Not at all, my dear Harcourt, why should I?  There's nobody here but you and Timothy."

"Timothy! excellent--upon my word, I never should have known him."

"He is going forth on his adventures."

"And if you please, sir, I will lose no time.  It is now dark, and I know where the gipsy hangs
out."

"Success attend you then; but be careful Tim.  You had better write to me, instead of calling."

"I had the same idea: and now I wish you a good evening."

When Timothy quitted the room, I explained our intentions to Harcourt.

"Yours is a strange adventurous sort of life, Newland; you are constantly plotted against,
and plotting in your turn--mines and counter-mines.  I have an idea that you will turn out
some grand personage after all; for if not, why should there be all this trouble about you?"

"The trouble, in the present case, is all about Fleta; who must, by your argument, turn out
some grand personage."

"Well, perhaps she may.  I should like to see that little girl, Newland."

"That cannot be, just now, for reasons you well know; but some other time it will give me great
pleasure."

On the second day after Tim's departure, I received a letter from him by the twopenny post.
He had made the acquaintance of the gipsy, but had not extracted any information, being as
yet afraid to venture any questions.  He further stated that his new companion had no objection
to a glass or two, and that he had no doubt but that if he could contrive to make him tipsy,
in a few days he would have some important intelligence to communicate.  I was in a state of
great mental agitation during this time.  I went to Mr Masterton, and narrated to him all that
had passed.  He was surprised and amused, and desired me not to fail to let him have the earliest
intelligence of what came to light.  He had not received any answer as yet from his agent in
Dublin.

It was not until eight days afterwards that I received further communication from Timothy;
and I was in a state of great impatience, combined with anxiety, lest any accident should have
happened.  His communication was important.  He was on the most intimate footing with the man,
who had proposed that he should assist him to carry off a little girl, who was at a school
at Brentford.  They had been consulting how this should be done, and Timothy had proposed forging
a letter, desiring her to come up to town, and his carrying it as a livery servant.  The man
had also other plans, one of which was to obtain an entrance into the house by making acquaintance
with the servants; another, by calling to his aid some of the women of his fraternity to tell
fortunes: nothing was as yet decided, but that he was resolved to obtain possession of the
little girl, even if he were obliged to resort to force.  In either case Timothy was engaged
to assist.

When I read this, I more than congratulated myself upon the man's being on the wrong scent,
and that Timothy had hit upon his scheme.  Timothy continued;--that they had indulged in very
deep potations last night, and that the man had not scrupled to say that he was employed by
a person of large fortune, who paid well, and whom it might not be advisable to refuse, as
he had great power.  After some difficulty, he asked Timothy if he had ever heard the name
of Melchior in his tribe. Timothy replied that he had, and that at the gathering he had seen
him and his wife.  Timothy at one time thought that the man was about to reveal everything,
but of a sudden he stopped short, and gave evasive answers.  To a question put by Timothy,
as to where they were to take the child if they obtained possession of her, the man had replied,
that she would go over the water.  Such were the contents of the letter, and I eagerly awaited
a further communication.

The next day I called at Long's Hotel upon a gentleman with whom I was upon intimate terms.
After remaining a short time with him, I was leaving the hotel, when I was attracted by some
trunks in the entrance hall.  I started when I read the address of--"A. De Benyon, Esquire,
to be left at F--t Hotel, Dublin."  I asked the waiter who was by, whether Mr De Benyon had
left the hotel.  He replied that he had left it in his own carriage that morning, and having
more luggage than he could take with him, had desired these trunks to be forwarded by the coach.
I had by that time resumed my serenity.  I took out a memorandum book, wrote down the address
on the trunks, saying that I was sorry not to have seen Mr De Benyon, and that I would write
to him.

But if I composed myself before the waiter, how did my heart throb as I hastily passed through
Bond Street to my home!  I had made up my mind, upon what very slight grounds the reader must
be aware, that this Mr De Benyon either must be my father, or, if not, was able, to tell me
who was.  Had not Mr Masterton said that there was a clue--had he not written to Dublin?  The
case was to my excited imagination as clear as the noon-day, and before I arrived at home,
I had made up my mind in what manner I should proceed.  It was then about four o'clock.  I
hastily packed up my portmanteau--took with me all my ready money, about sixty pounds, and
sent the servant to secure a place in the mail to Holyhead.  He returned, stating that there
was a seat taken for me.  I waited till half-past five to see Harcourt, but he did not come
home.  I then wrote him a short note, telling him where I was going, and promising to write
as soon as I arrived.

  "Ireland is to be the ground of my future adventures, my dear
  Harcourt.  Call upon Mr Masterton, and tell him what I have done,
  which he surely will approve.  Open Timothy's letters, and let me have
  their contents.  I leave you to arrange and act for me in every
  respect until I return.  In the mean time believe me,--

  "Ever yours,--

  "J. Newland."

I gave the letter to the valet, and calling a coach drove to the office, and in less than five
minutes afterwards was rolling away to Holyhead, felicitating myself upon my promptitude and
decision, little imagining to what the step I had taken was to lead.

It was a very dark night in November when I started on my expedition. There were three other
passengers in the mail, none of whom had yet spoken a word, although we had made several miles
of our journey. Muffled up in my cloak, I indulged in my own reveries as usual, building up
castles which toppled over one after another as I built and rebuilt again.  At last one of
the passengers blew his nose, as if to give warning that he was about to speak; and then inquired
of the gentleman next him if he had seen the evening newspapers.  The other replied in the
negative.  "It would appear that Ireland is not in a very quiet state, sir," observed the first.

"Did you ever read the history of Ireland?" inquired the other.

"Not very particularly."

"Then, sir, if you were to take that trouble, you will find that Ireland, since it was first
peopled, never has been in a quiet state, nor perhaps ever will.  It is a species of human
volcano--always either smoking, burning, or breaking out into eruptions and fire."

"Very true, sir," replied the other.  "I am told the White Boys are mustering in large numbers,
and that some of the districts are quite impassable."

"Sir, if you had travelled much in Ireland, you would have found out that many of the districts
are quite impassable, without the impediment of the White Boys."

"You have been a great deal in Ireland then, sir," replied the other.

"Yes, sir," said the other with a consequential air, "I believe I may venture to say that I
am in charge of some of the most considerable properties in Ireland."

"Lawyer--agent--five per cent--and so on," muttered the third party, who sate by me, and had
not yet spoken.

There was no mistaking him--it was my former master, Mr Cophagus; and I cannot say that I was
very well pleased at this intimation of his presence, as I took it for granted that he would
recognise me as soon as it was daylight.  The conversation continued, without any remarks being
made upon this interruption on the part of Mr Cophagus.  The agent, it appeared, had been called
to London on business, and was returning.  The other was a professor of music, bound to Dublin
on speculation.  What called Mr Cophagus in that direction I could not comprehend; but I thought
I would try and find out.  I therefore, while the two others were engaged in conversation,
addressed him in a low tone of voice. "Can you tell me, sir, if the College at Dublin is considered
good for the instruction of surgical pupils?"

"Country good, at all events plenty of practice--broken heads--and so on."

"Have you ever been in Ireland, sir?"

"Ireland!--never--don't wish to go--must go--old women will die-- executor--botheration--and
so on."

"I hope she has left you a good legacy, sir," replied I.

"Legacy--humph--can't tell--silver tea-pot--suit of black, and so on. Long journey--won't pay--can't
be helped--old women always troublesome alive or dead--bury her, come back--and so on."

PART TWO, CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

I DENY MY MASTER.

Although Mr Cophagus was very communicative in his own way, he had no curiosity with regard
to others, and the conversation dropped.  The other two had also asked all the questions which
they wished, and we all, as if by one agreement, fell back in our seats, and shut our eyes,
to court sleep.  I was the only one who wooed it in vain.  Day broke, my companions were all
in repose, and I discontinued my reveries, and examined their physiognomies.  Mr Cophagus was
the first to whom I directed my attention.  He was much the same in face as when I had left
him, but considerably thinner in person.  His head was covered with a white nightcap, and he
snored with emphasis.  The professor of music was a very small man, with mustachios: his mouth
was wide open; and one would have thought that he was in the full execution of a bravura. 
The third person, who had stated himself to be an agent, was a heavy, full-faced, coarse-looking
personage, with his hat over his eyes, and his head bent down on his chest, and I observed
that he had a small packet in one of his hands, with his forefinger twisted through the string.
I should not have taken further notice, had not the name of T. Iving, in the corner of the
side on which was the direction, attracted my attention.  It was the name of Melchior's London
correspondent, who had attempted to bribe Timothy.  This induced me to look down and read the
direction of the packet, and I clearly deciphered, Sir Henry de Clare, Bart., Mount Castle,
Connemara.  I took out my tablets, and wrote down the address.  I certainly had no reason for
so doing, except that nothing should be neglected, as there was no saying what might turn out.
I had hardly replaced my tablets when the party awoke, made a sort of snatch at the packet,
as if recollecting it, and wishing to ascertain if it were safe, looked at it, took off his
hat, let down the window, and then looked round upon the other parties.

"Fine morning, sir," said he to me, perceiving that I was the only person awake.

"Very," replied I, "very fine; but I had rather be walking over the mountains of Connemara,
than be shut up in this close and confined conveyance."

"Hah! you know Connemara, then?  I'm going there; perhaps you are also bound to that part of
the country? but you are not Irish."

"I was not born or bred in Ireland, certainly," replied I.

"So I should say Irish blood in your veins, I presume."

"I believe such to be the case," replied I, with a smile, implying certainty.

"Do you know Sir Henry de Clare?"

"Sir Henry de Clare--of Mount Castle--is he not?"

"The same; I am going over to him.  I am agent for his estates, among others.  A very remarkable
man.  Have you ever seen his wife?"

"I really cannot tell," replied I; "let me call to mind."

I had somehow or another formed an idea, that Sir Henry de Clare and Melchior might be one
and the same person; nothing was too absurd or improbable for my imagination, and I had now
means of bringing home my suspicions.  "I think," continued I, "I recollect her--that is, she
is a very tall, handsome woman, dark eyes and complexion."

"The very same," replied he.

My heart bounded at the information; it certainly was not any clue to my own parentage, but
it was an object of my solicitude, and connected with the welfare of Fleta.  "If I recollect
right," observed I, "there are some curious passages in the life of Sir Henry?"

"Nothing very particular," observed the agent, looking out of the window.

"I thought that he had disappeared for some time."

"Disappeared! he certainly did not live in Ireland, because he had quarrelled with his brother.
He lived in England until his brother's death."

"How did his brother die, sir?"

"Killed by a fall when hunting," replied the agent.  "He was attempting to clear a stone wall,
the horse fell back on him, and dislocated his spine.  I was on the spot when the accident
happened."

I recollected the imperfect communication of Fleta, who had heard the gipsy say that "he was
dead;" and also the word horse made use of, and I now felt convinced that I had found out Melchior.
"Sir Henry, if I recollect right, has no family," observed I.

"No; and I am afraid there is but little chance."

"Had the late baronet, his elder brother, any family?"

"What, Sir William?  No; or Sir Henry would not have come into the title."

"He might have had daughters," replied I.

"Very true; now I think of it, there was a girl, who died when young."

"Is the widow of Sir William alive?"

"Yes; and a very fine woman she is; but she has left Ireland since her husband's death."

I did not venture to ask any more questions.  Our conversation had roused Mr Cophagus and the
other passenger; and as I had reflected how I should behave in case of recognition, I wished
to be prepared for him.

"You have had a good nap, sir," said I, turning to him.

"Nap--yes--coach nap, bad--head sore--and so on.  Why--bless me-- Japhet--Japhet New--yes--it is."

"Do you speak to me, sir?" inquired I, with a quiet air.

"Speak to you--yes--bad memory--hip! quite forgot--old master--shop in Smithfield--mad bull--and
so on."

"Really, sir," replied I, "I am afraid you mistake me for some other person."

Mr Cophagus looked very hard at me, and perceiving that there was no alteration in my countenance,
exclaimed, "Very odd--same nose--same face--same age too--very odd--like as two pills--beg
pardon--made a mistake--and so on."

Satisfied with the discomfiture of Mr Cophagus, I turned round, when I perceived the Irish
agent, with whom I had been in conversation, eyeing me most attentively.  As I said before,
he was a hard-featured man, and his small grey eye was now fixed upon me, as if it would have
pierced me through.  I felt confused for a moment, as the scrutiny was unexpected from that
quarter; but a few moments' reflection told me, that if Sir Henry de Clare and Melchior were
the same person, and this man his agent, in all probability he had not been sent to England
for nothing; that if he was in search of Fleta, he must have heard of my name, and perhaps
something of my history.  "I appear to have a great likeness to many people," observed I, to
the agent, smiling.  "It was but the other day I was stopped in Bond Street as a Mr Rawlinson."

"Not a very common face either, sir," observed the agent: "if once seen not easily forgotten,
nor easily mistaken for another."

"Still such appears to be the case," replied I, carelessly.  We now stopped to take refreshment.
I had risen from the table, and was going into the passage, when I perceived the agent looking
over the way-bill with the guard.  As soon as he perceived me, he walked out in front of the
inn.  Before the guard had put up the bill, I requested to look at it, wishing to ascertain
if I had been booked in my own name.  It was so.  The four names were, Newland, Cophagus, Baltzi,
McDermott.  I was much annoyed at this circumstance.  McDermott was, of course, the name of
the agent; and that was all the information I received in return for my own exposure, which
I now considered certain; I determined, however, to put a good face on the matter, and when
we returned to the coach, again entered into conversation with Mr McDermott, but I found him
particularly guarded in his replies whenever I spoke about Sir Henry or his family, and I could
not obtain any further information.  Mr Cophagus could not keep his eyes off me--he peered
into my face--then he would fall back in the coach.  "Odd--very odd--must be--no--says not--
um."  In about another half hour, he would repeat his examination, and mutter to himself. 
At last, as if tormented with his doubts, he exclaimed, "Beg pardon--but--you have a name?"

"Yes," replied I, "I have a name."

"Well, then--not ashamed.  What is it?"

"My name, sir," replied I, "is Newland;" for I had resolved to acknowledge to my name, and
fall back upon a new line of defence.

"Thought so--don't know me--don't recollect shop--Mr Brookes's--Tim-- rudiments--and so on."

"I have not the least objection to tell you my name; but I am afraid you have the advantage
in your recollection of me.  Where may I have had the honour of meeting you?"

"Meeting--what, quite forgot--Smithfield?"

"And pray, sir, where may Smithfield be?"

"Very odd--can't comprehend--same name, same face--don't recollect me, don't recollect Smithfield?"

"It may be very odd, sir; but, as I am very well known in London, at the west end, perhaps
we have met there.  Lord Windermear's, perhaps--Lady Maelstrom's?"--and I continued mentioning
about a dozen of the most fashionable names.  "At all events, you appear to have the advantage
of me; but I trust you will excuse my want of memory, as my acquaintance is very extensive."

"I see--quite a mistake--same name, not same person--beg pardon, sir-- apologies--and so on,"
replied the apothecary, drawing in a long sigh.

PART TWO, CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

I TURN LAWYER.

I watched the countenance of the agent, who appeared at last to be satisfied that there had
been some mistake; at least he became more communicative; and as I no longer put any questions
to him relative to Sir Henry, we had a long conversation.  I spoke to him about the De Benyons,
making every inquiry that I could think of.  He informed me that the deceased earl, the father
of the present, had many sons, who were some of them married, and that the family was extensive.
He appeared to know them all, the professions which they had been brought up to, and their
careers in life.  I treasured up this information, and, as soon as I had an opportunity, wrote
down all which he had told me. On our arrival at Holyhead, the weather was very boisterous,
and the packet was to depart immediately.  Mr McDermott stated his intentions to go over, but
Mr Cophagus and the professor declined; and, anxious as I was to proceed, I did not wish to
be any longer in company with the agent, and, therefore, also declined going on board.  Mr
McDermott called for a glass of brandy and water, drank it off in haste, and then, followed
by the porter, with his luggage, went down to embark.

As soon as he was gone, I burst into a fit of laughter.  "Well, Mr Cophagus, acknowledge that
it is possible to persuade a man out of his senses.  You knew me, and you were perfectly right
in asserting that I was Japhet, yet did I persuade you at last that you were mistaken.  But
I will explain to you why I did so."

"All right," said the apothecary, taking my proffered hand, "thought so--no mistake--handsome
fellow--so you are--Japhet Newland--my apprentice--and so on."

"Yes, sir," replied I, laughing, "I am Japhet Newland."  (I turned round, hearing a noise,
the door had been opened, and Mr McDermott had just stepped in; he had returned for an umbrella,
which he had forgotten; he looked at me, at Mr Cophagus, who still held my hand in his, turned
short round, said nothing, and walked out.) "This is unfortunate," observed I: "my reason for
not avowing myself was to deceive that very person, and now I have made the avowal to his face;
however, it cannot be helped."

I sat down with my old master, and as I knew that I could confide in him, gave him an outline
of my life, and stated my present intentions.

"I see, Japhet, I see--done mischief--sorry for it--can't be helped--do all I can--um--what's
to be done--be your friend--always like you--help all I can--and so on."

"But what would you advise, sir?"

"Advice--bad as physic--nobody takes it--Ireland--wild place--no law-- better go back--leave
all to me--find out--and so on."

This advice I certainly did not consent to follow.

We argued the matter over for some time, and then it was agreed that we should proceed together.
I was informed by Mr Cophagus that he had retired with a very handsome fortune, and was living
in the country, about ten miles from the metropolis; that he had been summoned to attend the
funeral of a maiden aunt in Dublin, who had left him executor and residuary legatee, but that
he knew nothing of her circumstances.  He was still a bachelor, and amused himself in giving
advice and medicines gratis to the poor people of the village in which he resided, there being
no resident practitioner within some distance.  He liked the country very much, but there was
one objection to it--the cattle.  He had not forgotten the mad bull.  At a very late hour we
retired to our beds: the next morning the weather had moderated, and, on the arrival of the
mail, we embarked, and had a very good passage over.  On my arrival at Dublin I directed my
steps to the F--t Hotel, as the best place to make inquiries relative to Mr De Benyon.  Mr
Cophagus also put up at the same hotel, and we agreed to share a sitting-room.

"Waiter," said I, "do you know a Mr De Benyon?"

"Yes, sir," replied he; "there is one of the De Benyons at the hotel at this moment."

"Is he a married man?"

"Yes--with a large family."

"What is his Christian name?"

"I really cannot tell, sir; but I'll find out for you by to-morrow morning."

"When does he leave?"

"To-morrow, I believe."

"Do you know where he goes?"

"Yes, sir, to his own seat."

The waiter left the room.  "Won't do, Japhet," said Cophagus.  "Large family--don't want more--hard
times, and so on."

"No," replied I, "it does not exactly answer; but I may from him obtain further intelligence."

"Won't do, Japhet--try another way--large family--want all uncle's money--um--never tell--good
night."

This remark of Mr Cophagus gave me an idea, upon which I proceeded the next morning.  I sent
in my card requesting the honour of speaking to Mr De Benyon, stating that I had come over
to Ireland on business of importance, but that, as I must be back if possible by term time,
it would perhaps save much expense and trouble.  The waiter took in the message.

"Back by term time--it must be some legal gentleman.  Show him up," said Mr De Benyon.

I walked in with a business-like air.  "Mr De Benyon, I believe?"

"Yes, sir; will you do me the favour to take a chair?"

I seated myself, and drew out my memorandum book.  "My object, Mr De Benyon, in troubling you,
is to ascertain a few particulars relative to your family, which we cannot so easily find out
in England.  There is a property which it is supposed may be claimed by one of the De Benyons,
but which we cannot ascertain until we have a little search into the genealogical tree."

"Is the property large?" inquired Mr De Benyon.

"Not very large," replied I; "but still a very handsome property, I am told."  The reader may
surmise that the property referred to was my own pretty self.  "May I ask you a few particulars
relative to the present earl and his brothers?"

"Most certainly, sir," replied Mr De Benyon; "any information I can give you will be at your
service.  The earl has four brothers.  The eldest Maurice."

"Is he married?"

"Yes, and has two children.  The next is William."

"Is he married?"

"No; nor has he ever been.  He is a general in the army.  The third is myself, Henry."

"You are married, I believe, sir?"

"Yes, with a large family."

"May I request you will proceed, sir?"

"Arthur is the fourth brother.  He is lately married, and has two children."

"Sir, I feel much obliged to you; it is a curious and intricate affair. As I am here, I may
as well ask one question, although not of great consequence.  The earl is married, I perceive,
by the peerage, but I do not find that he has any children."

"On the contrary, he has two--and prospects of more.  May I now request the particulars connected
with this property?"

"The exact particulars, sir, I cannot well tell you, as I am not acquainted with them myself;
but the property in question, I rather think, depends upon a name.  May I venture to ask the
names of all your children?"

Mr De Benyon gave me a list seriatim, which I put down with great gravity.

"Of course, there is no doubt of your second brother not being married. I believe we ought
to have a certificate.  Do you know his address?"

"He has been in the East Indies for many years.  He returned home on furlough, and has now
just sailed again for Calcutta."

"That is unfortunate; we must forward a letter through the India Board. May I also be favoured
with your address, as in all probability it may be advisable?"

Mr De Benyon gave me his address.  I rose, promised to give him all the particulars as soon
as they were known to me, bowed, and made my exit. To one who was in his sober senses, there
certainly was not any important information gained; but to me, it was evident that the Mr De
Benyon who was a general in the army was to be interrogated, and I had almost made up my mind
to set off for Calcutta.

PART TWO, CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

I AFFRONT AN IRISH GENTLEMAN AND MAKE A HANDSOME APOLOGY, WHICH IS ACCEPTED.

Before I had gained my own room, I informed Mr Cophagus, who had just returned from a visit
to his maiden aunt's house, of what had passed.

"Can't see anything in it, Japhet--wild-goose chase--who told you?--oh! Pleggit's men--sad
liars--De Benyon not name, depend upon it--all stuff, and so on."

And when I reflected, I could but acknowledge that the worthy apothecary might be right, and
that I was running after shadows; but this was only in my occasional fits of despondency: I
soon rallied, and was as sanguine as ever.  Undecided how to proceed, and annoyed by what Cophagus
had said, I quitted the hotel, to walk out in no very good humour.  As I went out, I perceived
the agent McDermott speaking to the people in the bar, and the sight of him reminded me of
what, for a moment, I had forgotten, which was, to ascertain whether Melchior and Sir Henry
de Clare were one and the same person.  As I passed a crossing, a man in tattered habiliments,
who was sweeping it, asked for alms, but being in no very charitable humour, I walked on. 
He followed me, pestering me so much, that I gave him a tap with the cane in my hand, saying
to him, "Be off, you scoundrel."

"Oh! very well.  Be off, is it you mane?  By the blood of the O'Rourkes but you'll answer for
that same, anyhow."

I passed on, and having perambulated the city of Dublin for some time, returned to the hotel.
A few minutes afterwards, I was told by the waiter that a Mr O'Donaghan wished to speak to
me.  "I have not the honour of his acquaintance," replied I, "but you may show him up."

Mr O'Donaghan entered, a tall, thick-whiskered personage, in a shabby-genteel dress, evidently
not made for him, a pair of white cotton gloves, and a small stick.  "I believe that I have
the honour of spaking to the gentleman who crossed over the street about two hours ago?"

"Upon my word, sir," replied I, "that is so uncertain a definition that I can hardly pretend
to say whether I am the person you mean; indeed, from not having the pleasure of anyone's acquaintance
in Dublin, I rather think there must be some mistake."

"The devil a bit of a mistake, at all at all; for there's the little bit of a cane with which
you paid my friend, Mr O'Rourke, the compliment over his shoulders."

"I really am quite mystified, sir, and do not understand you; will you favour me with an explanation?"

"With all the pleasure in life, for then we shall come to a right understanding.  You were
crossing the street, and a gentleman, a particular friend of mine, with a broom which he carries
for his own amusement, did himself the honour to address you, whereupon, of that same little
stick of yours, you did him the honour to give him a slight taste."

"What do you mean? do you refer to the sweeper, who was so importunate when I crossed over
the road?"

"Then, by the powers, you've just hit it, as you did him.  That's my particular friend, Thaddeus
O'Rourke, gentleman."

"Gentleman!" exclaimed I.

"And with as good and as true Milesian blood as any in Ireland.  If you think, sir, that because
my friend, just for his own amusement, thinks proper to put on the worst of his clothes and
carry a broom, just by way of exercise, to prevent his becoming too lusty, he is therefore
to be struck like a hound, it's a slight mistake, that's all; and here sir, is his card, and
you will oblige me by mentioning any friend of yours with whom I may settle all the little
points necessary before the meeting of two gentleman."

I could hardly refrain from laughing at this Irish gentleman and his friend, but I thought
it advisable to retain my countenance.  "My dear sir," replied I, "it grieves me to the heart
that I should have committed such an error, in not perceiving the gentility of your friend;
had I not been so careless, I certainly should have requested him to do me the honour to accept
a shilling, instead of having offered him the insult.  I hope it is not now too late?"

"By the powers, I'm not one of those harum-scarum sort, who would make up a fight when there's
no occasion for it, and as your 'haviour is that of a gentleman, I think it will perhaps be
better to shake hands upon it, and forget it altogether.  Suppose now, we'll consider that
it was all a mistake?  You give the shilling as you intended to do, I'll swear only you were
in so great a hurry--and then, perhaps, you'll not object to throw in another shilling for
that same tap with the cane, just to wipe off the insult as it were, as we do our sins, when
we fork out the money, and receive absolution from the padre; and then, perhaps, you will not
think it too much if I charge another shilling for my time and trouble, for carrying a message
between two gentlemen."

"On the contrary, Mr O'Donaghan, I think all your demands are reasonable.  Here is the money."

Mr O'Donaghan took the three shillings.  "Then, sir, and many thanks to you, I'll wish you
a good evening, and Mr O'Rourke shall know from me that you have absolution for the whole,
and that you have offered every satisfaction which one gentleman could expect from another."
So saying Mr O'Donaghan put his hat on with a firm cock, pulled on his gloves, manoeuvred his
stick, and, with a flourishing bow, took his departure.

I had hardly dismissed this gentleman, and was laughing to myself at the ridiculous occurrence,
when Mr Cophagus returned, first putting his cane up to his nose with an arch look, and then
laying it down on the table and rubbing his hands.  "Good--warm old lady.  No--dead and cold--
but left some thousands--only one legacy--old Tom cat--physic him to-morrow--soon die, and so on."

On a more full explanation, I found that the old lady had left about nine thousand pounds in
the funds and bank securities, all of which, with the exception of twenty pounds per annum
to a favourite cat, was left to Mr Cophagus.  I congratulated him upon this accession of fortune.
He stated that the lease of the house and the furniture were still to be disposed of, and that
afterwards he should have nothing more to do; but he wished me very much to assist him in rummaging
over the various cabinets belonging to the old lady, and which were full of secret drawers;
that in one cabinet alone he had found upwards of fifty pounds in various gold coins, and that
if not well examined, they would probably be sold with many articles of consequence remaining
in them.

As my only object in Ireland was to find out Sir Henry de Clare, and identify him, (but, really,
why I could not have said, as it would have proved nothing after all,) I willingly consented
to devote a day to assist Mr Cophagus in his examination.  The next morning after breakfast,
we went together to the house of the old lady, whose name had been Maitland, as Mr Cophagus
informed me.  Her furniture was of the most ancient description, and in every room in the house
there was an ormolu, or Japan cabinet; some of them were very handsome, decorated with pillars,
and silver ornaments.  I can hardly recount the variety of articles, which in all probability
had been amassed during the whole of the old lady's life, commencing with her years of childhood,
and ending with the day of her death.  There were antique ornaments, some of considerable value,
miniatures, fans, etuis, notes, of which the ink, from time, had turned to a light red, packages
of letters of her various correspondents in her days of hope and anticipation, down to those
of solitude and age.  We looked over some of them, but they appeared to both of us to be sacred,
and they were, after a slight examination, committed to the flames.

After we had examined all the apparent receptacles in these cabinets, we took them up between
us, and shook them, and in most cases found out that there were secret drawers containing other
treasures.  There was one packet of letters which caught my eye; it was from a Miss De Benyon.
I seized it immediately, and showed the inscription to Mr Cophagus. "Pooh--nothing at all--her
mother was a De Benyon."

"Have you any objection to my looking at these letters?"

"No--read--nothing in them."

I laid them on one side, and we proceeded in our search when Mr Cophagus took up a sealed packet.
"Heh! what's this--De Benyon again? Japhet, look here."

I took the packet; it was seated and tied with red tape.  "Papers belonging to Lieutenant William
De Benyon, to be returned to him at my decease."

"Alice Maitland, with great care," was written at the bottom of the envelope.

"This is it, my dear sir," cried I, jumping up and embracing Mr Cophagus; "these are the papers
which I require.  May I keep them?"

"Mad--quite mad--go to Bedlam--strait waistcoat--head shaved--and so on."

PART TWO, CHAPTER NINETEEN.

I AM NOT CONTENT WITH MINDING MY OWN BUSINESS, BUT MUST HAVE A HAND IN THAT OF OTHERS, BY WHICH
MEANS I PUT MY FOOT IN IT.

He then, after his own fashion, told me, that, as executor he must retain those papers; pointed
out to me the little probability there was of their containing any information relative to
my birth, even allowing that a person of the name of De Benyon did call at the Foundling to
ask for me, which was only a supposition; and, finally, overthrew all the hopes which had been,
for so many days, buoying me up.  When he had finished, I threw myself upon the sofa in despair,
and wished, at the moment, that I had never been born.  Still hope again rose uppermost, and
I would have given all I possessed to have been able to break open the seals of that packet,
and have read the contents.  At one moment I was so frantic, that I was debating whether I
should not take them from Mr Cophagus by force, and run off with them.  At last I rose, and
commenced reading the letters which I had put aside, but there was nothing in them but the
trifling communications of two young women, who mentioned what was amusing to them, but uninteresting
to those who were not acquainted with the parties.

When we had finished, Mr Cophagus collected all together, and putting them into a box, we returned
in a coach to the hotel.  The next day Mr Cophagus had completed all his arrangements, and
the day following had determined to return to England.  I walked with him down to the vessel,
and watched it for an hour after it had sailed, for it bore away a packet of papers, which
I could not help imagining were to discover the secret which I was so eager in pursuit of.
A night's sleep made me more rational, and I now resolved to ascertain where Sir Henry de Clare,
or Melchior, as I felt certain he must be, was to be found.  I sent for the waiter, and asked
him if he could inform me.  He immediately replied in the affirmative, and gave his address,
Mount Castle, Connemara, asking me when I intended to set out.  It did not strike me till afterwards,
that it was singular that he should be so well acquainted with the address, and that he should
have produced a card with it written upon it; or, moreover, that he should know that it was
my intention to go there.  I took the address, and desired that I might have horses ready very
early the next morning.  I then sat down and wrote a letter to Harcourt, informing him of my
proceedings, also one to Mr Masterton much more explicit, lastly to Timothy, to the care of
Harcourt, requesting him to let me know what had occurred between him and the gipsies.  After
dinner, I packed up ready for my journey, and having settled my bill, I was not sorry to retire
to my bed.

At daylight I was, as I requested, called by the waiter; and taking with me only a very small
portmanteau, having left the rest of my effects in the charge of the people who kept the hotel,
I set off in a post-chaise on my expedition.  I was soon clear of the city, and on a fine smooth
road, and, as I threw myself back in the corner of the chaise, I could not help asking myself
the question--what was the purport of my journey? As the reader will perceive, I was wholly
governed by impulses, and never allowed reason or common sense to stand in the way of my feelings.
"What have I to do?" replied I to myself; "to find out if Melchior and Sir Henry de Clare be
not one and the same person.  And what then?  What then?--why then I may find out something
relative to Fleta's parentage. Nay, but is that likely--if, as you suppose, Melchior is Sir
Henry de Clare--if, as you suppose, it is he who is now trying to find out and carry off Fleta--is
it probable that you will gain any information from him?  I have no idea that Fleta is the
little girl said to have died, who was the child of his elder brother.  Why so?  What interest
could Melchior have in stealing his own niece?  That I cannot tell.  Why did Nattee give me
the necklace?  I cannot tell; she would hardly betray her husband.  At all events, there is
a mystery, and it can only be unravelled by being pulled at; and I may learn something by meeting
Melchior, whereas I shall learn nothing by remaining quiet."  This last idea satisfied me;
and for many hours I remained in a train of deep thought, only checked by paying for the horses
at the end of every stage.

It was now past twelve o'clock, when I found that it was necessary to change the chaise at
every post.  The country also, as well as the roads, had changed much for the worse.  Cultivation
was not so great, the roads were mountainous, and civilisation generally disappeared.  It was
nearly dark when I arrived at the last post, from whence I was to take horses to Mount Castle.
As usual, the chaise also was to be changed; and I could not help observing that each change
was from bad to worse.  Rope harness was used, and the vehicles themselves were of the most
crazy condition.  Still I had travelled very fairly; for an Irish postilion knows how to make
an Irish horse go very fair pace.  I descended from the chaise, and ordered another out immediately.
To this there was no reply, except, "Wait, your honour; step in a moment, and rest from your
fatigue a little."  Presuming this was merely to give them time to get ready, I walked into
the room of the inn, which indeed was very little better than a hovel, and sat down by the
turf fire in company with some others, whom I could hardly distinguish for smoke.  I paid the
chaise and postilion, and soon afterwards heard it drive off, on its way back.  After a few
minutes I inquired if the chaise was getting ready.

"Is it the chaise your honour means?" said the landlady.

"Yes," replied I; "a chaise on to Mount Castle."

"Then I am sorry that your honour must wait a little for our chaise, and the only one which
we have, is gone to the castle, and won't be back till long after the moon is up.  What will
your honour please to take?"

"Not back till moonlight!" replied I; "why did you not say so? and I would have gone on with
the other."

"Is it with the other you mane, your honour?  Then if Teddy Driscoll could make his horses
go one step farther than our door, may I never have a soul to be saved.  Will your honour please
to sit in the little room?  Kathleen shall light a fire."

Vexed as I was with the idea of passing the night in this horrid place, there was no help for
it; so I took up my portmanteau, and followed the landlady to a small room, if it deserved
the appellation, which had been built after the cottage, and a door broken through the wall
into it. Ceiling there was none; it had only lean-to rafters, with tiles overhead.  I took
a seat on the only stool that was in the room, and leant my elbow on the table in no very pleasant
humour, when I heard the girl say, "And why don't you let him go on to the castle?  Sure the
chaise is in the yard, and the horses are in the stable."

"There's orders 'gainst it, Kathleen," replied the landlady.  "Mr McDermott was here this blessed
day, and who can deny him?"

"Who is he then?" replied the girl.

"An attorney with a warrant against Sir Henry; and, moreover, they say that he's coming to
'strain upon the cattle of Jerry O'Toole for the tithes."

"He's a bould young chap, at all events," replied the girl, "to come here all by himself."

"Oh! but it's not till to-morrow morning, and then we'll have the troops here to assist him."

"And does Jerry O'Toole know of this?"

"Sure enough he does; and I hope there'll be no murder committed in my house this blessed night.
But what can a poor widow do when McDermott holds up his finger?  Now, go light the fire, Kathleen,
and see if the poor young man wants anything; it's a burning pity that he shouldn't have something
to comfort him before his misfortunes fall upon him."

Kathleen made no reply.  The horror that I felt at this discourse may easily be imagined. 
That it was intended that I should meet with foul play was certain, and I knew very well that,
in such a desolate part of the country, the murder of an individual, totally unknown, would
hardly be noticed.  That I had been held up to the resentment of the inhabitants as a tithe
collector, and an attorney with a warrant, was quite sufficient, I felt conscious, to induce
them to make away with me. How to undeceive them was the difficulty.

PART TWO, CHAPTER TWENTY.

NO HOPES OF RISING NEXT MORNING ALIVE--AT A LAST CHANCE I GET INTO BED.

Kathleen came in with fuel to light the fire, and looking rather hard at me, passed by, and
was soon busy blowing up the turf.  She was a very handsome dark-eyed girl, about nineteen
years of age, stout, and well made.  "What is your name?" said I.

"Kathleen, at your service, sir."

"Listen to me, Kathleen," said I, in a low voice.  "You are a woman, and all women are kind-hearted.
I have overheard all that passed between your mistress and you, and that McDermott has stated
that I am a tithe collector and an attorney, with a warrant.  I am no such thing.  I am a gentleman
who wish to speak to Sir Henry de Clare on a business which he does not like to be spoken to
about; and to shew you what I say is the truth, it is about the daughter of his elder brother,
who was killed when hunting, and who is supposed to be dead.  I am the only evidence to the
contrary; and, therefore, he and McDermott have spread this report that I may come to harm."

"Is she alive, then?" replied Kathleen, looking up to me with wonder.

"Yes; and I will not tell Sir Henry where she is, and that is the reason of their enmity."

"But I saw her body," replied the girl in a low voice, standing up, and coming close to me.

"It was not hers, depend upon it," replied I, hardly knowing what to answer to this assertion.

"At all events, it was dressed in her clothes; but it was so long before it was discovered,
that we could make nothing of the features.  Well, I knew the poor little thing, for my mother
nursed her.  I was myself brought up at the castle, and lived there till after Sir William
was killed; then we were all sent away."

"Kathleen!  Kathleen!" cried the landlady.

"Call for everything you can think of one after another," whispered Kathleen, leaving the room.

"I cannot make the peat burn," said she to the landlady, after she had quitted the little room;
"and the gentleman wants some whisky."

"Go out then, and get some from the middle of the stack, Kathleen, and be quick; we have others
to attend besides the tithe proctor.  There's the O'Tooles all come in, and your own Corny
is with them."

"My Corny, indeed!" replied Kathleen; "he's not quite so sure of that."

In a short time Kathleen returned, and brought some dry peat and a measure of whisky.  "If
what you say is true," said Kathleen, "and sure enough you're no Irish, and very young for
a tithe proctor, who must grow old before he can be such a villain, you are in no very pleasant
way.  The O'Tooles are here, and I've an idea they mean no good; for they sit with all their
heads together, whispering to each other, and all their shillelaghs by their sides."

"Tell me, Kathleen, was the daughter of Sir William a fair-haired, blue-eyed girl?"

"To be sure she was," replied Kathleen, "and like a little mountain fairy."

"Now, Kathleen, tell me if you recollect if the little girl or her mother ever wore a necklace
of red beads mixed with gold."

"Yes, that my lady did; and it was on the child's neck when it was lost, and when the body
was found it was not with it.  Well I recollect that, for my mother said the child must have
been drowned or murdered for the sake of the gold beads."

"Then you have proved all I wished, Kathleen; and now I tell you that this little girl is alive,
and that I can produce the necklace which was lost with her; and more, that she was taken away
by Sir Henry himself."

"Merciful Jesus!" replied Kathleen; "the dear little child that we cried over so much."

"But now, Kathleen, I have told you this, to prove to you that I am not what McDermott has
asserted, no doubt, with the intention that my brains shall be knocked out this night."

"And so they will, sure enough," replied Kathleen, "if you do not escape."

"But how am I to escape? and will you assist me?"

And I laid down on the table ten guineas from my purse.

"Take that, Kathleen, and it will help you and Corny.  Now will you assist me?"

"It's Corny that will be the first to knock your brains out," replied Kathleen, "unless I can
stop him.  I must go now, and I'll see what can be done."

Kathleen would have departed without touching the gold; but I caught her by the wrist, collected
it, and put it into her hand.

"That's not like a tithe proctor, at all events," replied Kathleen; "but my heart aches and
my head swims, and what's to be done I know not."  So saying, Kathleen quitted the room.

"Well," thought I, after she had left the room, "at all events I have not been on a wrong scent
this time.  Kathleen has proved to me that Fleta is the daughter of the late Sir William; and
if I escape this snare, Melchior shall do her justice."  Pleased with my having so identified
Melchior and Fleta, I fell into a train of thought, and for the first time forgot my perilous
situation, but I was roused from my meditations by an exclamation from Kathleen.  "No, no,
Corny, nor any of ye--not now--and mother and me to witness it--it shall not be, Corny, hear
me, as sure as blood's drawn, and we up to see it, so sure does Corny O'Toole never touch this
hand of mine."  A pause, and whispering followed, and again all appeared to be quiet.  I unstrapped
my portmanteau, took out my pistols, which were loaded, re-primed them, and remained quiet,
determined to sell my life as dearly as possible.

It was more than half an hour before Kathleen returned; she looked pale and agitated.  "Keep
quiet, and do not think of resistance," said she; "it is useless.  I have told my mother all,
and she believes you, and will risk her life to save him who has watched over the little girl
whom she nursed; but keep quiet, we shall soon have them all out of the house.  Corny dare
not disobey me, and he will persuade the others."

She then went out again, and did not return for nearly an hour, when she was accompanied by
her mother.  "Kathleen has told me all, young sir," said she, "and do what we can, we will;
but we hardly know what to do. To go to the castle would be madness."

"Yes," replied I: "but cannot you give me one of your horses to return the way I came?"

"That was our intention; but I find that the O'Tooles have taken them all out of the stable
to prevent me; and the house is watched.  They will come at midnight and attack us, that I
fully expect, and how to conceal you puzzles my poor head."

"If they come, we can but persuade them that he has escaped," replied Kathleen; "they will
no longer watch the house, and he will then have some chance."

"There is but one chance," replied the mother, who took Kathleen aside, and whispered to her.
Kathleen coloured to the forehead, and made no reply.  "If your mother bids you, Kathleen,
there can be no harm."

"Yes; but if Corny was--"

"He dare not," replied the mother; "and now put this light out, and do you get into bed, sir,
with your clothes on."  They led me to a small bed-room, a miserable affair; but in that part
of the country considered respectable.  "Lie down there," said the mother, "and wait till we
call you."  They took the light away, and left me to myself and my own reflections, which were
anything but pleasant.  I lay awake, it might be for two hours, when I heard the sound of feet,
and then a whispering under the window, and shortly afterwards a loud knocking at the door,
which they were attempting to burst open.  Every moment I expected that it would yield to the
violence which was made use of, when the mother came down half-dressed, with a light in her
hand, hastened to me, and desired me to follow her.  I did so, and before she left my room,
she threw the window wide open.  She led me up a sort of half-stairs, half-ladder, to a small
room, where I found Kathleen sitting up in her bed, and half-dressed.  "O mother! mother!"
cried Kathleen.

"I bid ye do it, child," replied the mother, desiring me to creep into her daughter's bed,
and cover myself up on the side next the wall.

"Let me put on more clothes, mother."

"No, no, if you do, they will suspect, and will not hesitate to search. Your mother bids you."

The poor girl was burning with shame and confusion.

"Nay," replied I, "if Kathleen does not wish it, I will not buy my safety at the expense of
her feelings."

"Yes, yes," replied Kathleen, "I don't mind now; those words of yours are sufficient.  Come
in, quick."

PART TWO, CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

PETTICOAT INTEREST PREVAILS, AND I ESCAPE; BUT I PUT MY HEAD INTO THE LION'S DEN.

There was no time for apology, and stepping over Kathleen, I buried myself under the clothes
by her side.  The mother then hastened down stairs, and arrived at the door just as they had
succeeded in forcing it open, when in pounced a dozen men armed, with their faces blackened.

"Holy Jesus! what is it that you want?" screamed the landlady.

"The blood of the tithe proctor, and that's what we'll have," replied the O'Tooles.

"Not in my house--not in my house!" cried she.  "Take him away, at all events; promise me to
take him away."

"So we will, honey darlint; we'll take him out of your sight, and out of your hearing, too,
only show us where he may be."

"He's sleeping," replied the mother, pointing to the door of the bed-room, where I had been
lying down.

The party took the light from her hand, and went into the room, where they perceived the bed
empty and the window open.  "Devil a bit of a proctor here anyhow," cried one of them, "and
the window open.  He's off--hurrah! my lads, he can't be far."

"By the powers! it's just my opinion, Mrs McShane," replied the elder O'Toole, "that he's not
quite so far off; so with your lave, or by your lave, or without your lave, we'll just have
a look over the premises."

"O! and welcome, Mister Jerry O'Toole: if you think I'm the woman to hide a proctor, look everywhere
just as you please."

The party, headed by Jerry O'Toole, who had taken the light out of Mrs McShane's hand, now
ascended the ladder to the upper storey, and as I lay by Kathleen, I felt that she trembled
with fear.  After examining every nook and cranny they could think of, they came to Mrs McShane's
room--"O! go in--go in and look, Mr O'Toole; it's a very likely thing to insinuate that I should
have a tithe proctor in my bed.  Search, pray," and Mrs McShane led the way into her own room.

Every part had been examined, except the small sleeping room of Kathleen; and the party paused
before the door.  "We must search," observed O'Toole, doggedly.

"Search my daughter's! very well, search if you please; it's a fine story you'll have to tell,
how six great men pulled a poor girl out of her bed to look for a tithe proctor.  It will be
a credit to you anyhow; and you, Corny O'Toole, you'll stand well in her good graces, when
you come to talk about the wedding-day; and your wife that is to be, pulled out of her bed
by a dozen men.  What will ye say to Kathleen, when you affront her by supposing that a maiden
girl has a tithe proctor in bed with her?  D'ye think that ye'll ever have the mother's consent
or blessing?"

"No one goes into Kathleen's room," cried Corny O'Toole, roused by the sarcasms of Mrs McShane.

"Yes, Corny," replied Mrs McShane, "it's not for a woman like me to be suspected, at all events;
so you, and you only, shall go into the room, if that will content ye, Mr Jerry O'Toole."

"Yes!" replied the party, and Mrs McShane opened the door.

Kathleen rose up on her elbow, holding the bed-clothes up to her throat, and looking at them,
as they entered, said, "O Corny!  Corny! this to me?"

Corny never thought of looking for anybody, his eyes were rivetted upon his sweetheart.  "Murder,
Kathleen, is it my fault?  Jerry will have it."

"Are you satisfied, Corny?" said Mrs McShane.

"Sure enough I was satisfied before I came in, that Kathleen would not have anyone in her bed-room,"
replied Corny.

"Then good night, Corny, and it's to-morrow that I'll talk with ye," replied Kathleen.

Mrs McShane then walked out of the room, expecting Corny to follow; but he could not restrain
himself, and he came to the bedside.  Fearful that if he put his arms round her, he would feel
me, Kathleen raised herself, and allowed him to embrace her.  Fortunately the light was not
in the room, or I should have been discovered, as in so doing she threw the clothes off my
head and shoulders.  She then pushed back Corny from her, and he left the room, shutting the
door after him.  The party descended the ladder, and as soon as Kathleen perceived that they
were all down, she sprang out of bed and ran into her mother's room.  Soon after I heard them
depart.  Mrs McShane made fast the door, and came up stairs. She first went to her own room,
where poor Kathleen was crying bitterly from shame and excitement.  I had got up when she came
into Kathleen's room for her clothes, and, in about five minutes, they returned together. 
I was sitting on the side of the bed when they came in: the poor girl coloured up when our
eyes met.  "Kathleen," said I, "you have, in all probability, saved my life, and I cannot express
my thanks.  I am only sorry that your modesty has been put to so severe a trial."

"If Corny was to find it out," replied Kathleen, sobbing again.  "How could I do such a thing?"

"Your mother bid you," replied Mrs McShane, "and that is sufficient."

"But what must you think of me, sir?" continued Kathleen.

"I think that you have behaved most nobly.  You have saved an innocent man at the risk of your
reputation, and the loss of your lover.  It is not now that I can prove my gratitude."

"Yes, yes, promise me by all that's sacred, that you'll never mention it.  Surely you would
not ruin one who has tried to serve you."

"I promise you that, and I hope to perform a great deal more," replied I.  "But now, Mrs McShane,
what is to be done?  Remain here I cannot."

"No, you must leave, and that very soon.  Wait about ten minutes more, and then they will give
up their search and go home.  The road to E--" (the post I had lately come from) "is the best
you can take; and you must travel as fast as you can, for there is no safety for you here."

"I am convinced that rascal McDermott will not leave me till he has rid himself of me."  I
then took out my purse, in which I still had nearly twenty guineas.  I took ten of them.  "Mrs
McShane, I must leave you in charge of my portmanteau, which you may forward by-and-by, when
you hear of my safety.  If I should not be so fortunate, the money is better in your hands
than in the hands of those who will murder me.  Kathleen, God bless you! you are a good girl,
and Corny O'Toole will be a happy man if he knows your value."

I then wished Kathleen good-bye, and she allowed me to kiss her without any resistance; but
the tears were coursing down her cheeks as I left the room with her mother.  Mrs McShane looked
carefully out of the windows, holding the light to ascertain if there was anybody near, and,
satisfied with her scrutiny, she then opened the door, and calling down the saints to protect
me, shook hands with me, and I quitted the house. It was a dark cloudy night, and when I first
went out, I was obliged to grope, for I could distinguish nothing.  I walked along with a pistol
loaded in each hand, and gained, as I thought, the high road to E--, but I made a sad mistake:
and puzzled by the utter darkness and turnings, I took, on the contrary, the road to Mount
Castle.  As soon as I was clear of the houses and the enclosure, there was more light, and
I could distinguish the road.  I had proceeded about four or five miles, when I heard the sound
of horses' hoofs, and shortly afterwards two men rode by me.  I inquired if that was the way
to E--.  A pause ensued, and a whisper.

"All's right!" replied a deep voice.  I continued my way, glad to find that I had not mistaken
it, and cogitating as to what must be the purpose of two men being out at such an hour.  About
ten minutes afterwards I thought I again heard the sound of horses' feet, and it then occurred
to me that they must be highwaymen, who had returned to rob me.  I cocked my pistols, determined
to sell my life as dearly as I could, and awaited their coming up with anxiety; but they appeared
to keep at the same distance, as the sound did not increase.  After half an hour I came to
two roads, and was undecided which to take.  I stopped and listened--the steps of the horses
were no longer to be heard.  I looked round me to ascertain if I could recognise any object
so as to decide me, but I could not.  I took the road to the left, and proceeded, until I arrived
at a brook which crossed the road.  There was no bridge, and it was too dark to perceive the
stepping stones.  I had just waded about half way across, when I received a blow on the head
from behind, which staggered me.  I turned round, but before I could see my assailant, a second
blow laid me senseless in the water.

PART TWO, CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

UNDER GROUND, BUT NOT YET DEAD AND BURIED--THE PROSPECT ANYTHING BUT PLEASANT.

When my recollection returned I found myself in the dark, but where, I knew not.  My head ached,
and my brain reeled.  I sat up for a moment to collect my senses, but the effort was too painful--I
fell back, and remained in a state of half-stupor.  Gradually I recovered, and again sat up.
I perceived that I had been lying on a bed of straw, composed of two or three trusses apparently.
I felt with my extended arms on each side of me, but touched nothing.  I opened my eyes, which
I had closed again, and tried to pierce through the obscurity, but in vain-- all was dark as
Erebus.  I then rose on my feet, and extending my hands before me, walked five or six steps
on one side, till I was clear of the straw, and came to a wall.  I followed the wall about
twenty feet, and then touched wood; groping about, I found it was a door.  I then made the
circuit of the walls, and discovered that the other side was built with bins for wine, which
were empty, and I then found myself again at the straw upon which I had been laid.  It was
in a cellar no longer used--but where?  Again I lay down upon the straw, and, as it may be
imagined, my reflections were anything but pleasing.  "Was I in the power of McDermott or Melchior?"
I felt convinced that I was; but my head was too painful for long thought, and after half an
hour's reflection, I gave way to a sullen state of half-dreaming, half-stupor, in which the
forms of McDermott, Kathleen, Melchior, and Fleta, passed in succession before me.  How long
I remained in this second species of trance I cannot say, but I was roused by the light of
a candle, which flashed in my eyes.  I started up, and beheld Melchior in his gipsy's dress,
just as when I had taken leave of him.

"It is to you, then, that I am indebted for this treatment?" replied I.

"No, not to me," replied Melchior.  "I do not command here; but I knew you when they brought
you in insensible, and being employed in the castle, I have taken upon myself the office of
your gaoler, that I might, if possible, serve you."

I felt, I knew, this to be false, but a moment's reflection told me that it was better at present
to temporise.

"Who then does the castle belong to, Melchior?"

"To Sir Henry de Clare."

"And what can be his object in treating me thus?"

"That I can tell you, because I am a party concerned.  You remember the little girl, Fleta,
who left the gipsy camp with you--she is now somewhere under your care?"

"Well, I grant it; but I was answerable only to you about her."

"Very true, but I was answerable to Sir Henry; and when I could only say that she was well,
he was not satisfied, for family reasons now make him very anxious that she should return to
him; and, indeed, it will be for her advantage, as she will in all probability be his heir,
for he has satisfactorily proved that she is a near relative."

"Grant all that, Melchior; but why did not Sir Henry de Clare write to me on the subject, and
state his wishes, and his right to demand his relative? and why does he treat me in this way?
Another question--how is it that he has recognised me to be the party who has charge of the
little girl?  Answer me those questions, Melchior, and then I may talk over the matter."

"I will answer the last question first.  He knew your name from me, and it so happened, that
a friend of his met you in the coach as you were coming to Ireland: the same person also saw
you at the post-house, and gave information. But the sharp morning air, the interest in training a new
motor- cycle in the way it should go, the unexpected popping- up and grotesque salutes of wee gnome- like
Boy Scouts, soon made me forget the war. A series of the kind of little breakdowns you always have
in a collection of Kathleen new bikes delayed us considerably, and only a race over
greasy setts through the southern suburbs, over Waterloo Bridge and across
the Strand, brought us to Euston just as the boat- train was timed
to start.

In the importance of our new uniforms we stopped it, of course, and
rode joyfully from one end of the platform to the other, much to the agitation
of the guard, while I posed delightfully against a bookstall to be
photographed by a patriotic governess.

Very grimy we sat down to a marvellous breakfast, and passed the time reading magazines and discussing
the length of the war. We put it at from three to six weeks. At Holyhead we carefully took
our bikes aboard coming, and settled down to a cold voyage. We were all a
trifle apprehensive at our lack of escort, for then, you will remember, it had
not yet been proved how innocuous the German fleet is in our own
seas.[ 1] Ireland was a disappointment.

Everybody
was dirty and unfriendly, staring at us with hostile eyes. Add Dublin
grease, which beats the Belgian, and a crusty garage proprietor who
only after persuasion supplied us with petrol, and you may inn we
didn' t get a gracious word, and decided it was more pleasant not
to be a soldier in Ireland.

The daughter
of the house was pretty and passably clean, but it very grimly that she
had led me through an immense be sure we were glad to see the last of it.
The road to Carlow was bad and bumpy.

But the sunset was fine, and we liked the little low Irish cottages in the
twilight. When it was quite dark we stopped at a town with a hill in it. One of
our men had a brick thrown at him as he rode in, and when we came
to the gaudy drawing- room disconsolate in dust wrappings, to a little
room where we could wash. She gave us an exiguous meal at an extortionate
charge, and refused to put more than two of us up; so, on the advice
of two gallivanting lancers who had escaped from the Curragh for some
supper, we called in the aid of the police, and were billeted magnificently
on the village.

A moderate breakfast at an unearthly hour, a trouble with the starting up of our bikes, and we were off again.
It was about nine when we turned into Carlow Barracks.

The
company sighed with relief on seeing us. We completed the establishment
on mobilisation. Our two" artificers," Cecil and Grimers, had already arrived.
We were overjoyed to see them. We realised that what they did not know
about motor- cycles was not worth knowing, and we had suspected at
Chatham what we found afterwards to be true, that no one could have
chosen for us pleasanter comrades or more reliable workers. A fine
breakfast was soon prepared for us and we begun looking round.

The position should have been a little difficult-- a dozen or so' Varsity men, very fresh from
their respective universities, thrown as corporals at the head of
a company of professional soldiers.

We were determined that, whatever vices we might have, we should not be accused
of" swank."

The sergeants, after a trifle of preliminary stiffness, treated us with fatherly kindness, and
did all they could to make us comfortable and teach us what we wanted
to learn. Carlow was a fascinating little town. The National Volunteers
still drilled just behind the barracks. It was not wise to refer to
the Borderers or to Ulster, but the war had made all the difference
in the world.

We were to represent Carlow in the Great War.

Right through the winter Carlow never forgot us. They sent us comforts and cigarettes and Christmas
Puddings. When the 5th Signal Company returns, Carlow will go mad. My first" official" ride was to Dublin.
It rained most of the way there and all the way back, but a glow
of patriotism kept me warm.

In Dublin I went into a little public- house for some beer and bread and
cheese. The landlord told me that though he wasn' t exactly a lover
of soldiers, things had changed now.

On my return I was given lunch in the Officers' Mess, for nobody could consider
their men more than the officers of our company.

The next day we were inoculated. At the time we would much rather have risked typhoid. We did not object
to the discomfort, though two of us nearly fainted on parade the following morning-- it was streamingly
hot-- but our farewell dinner was absolutely spoilt. Bottles of the best Moselle Carlow
could produce were left untouched.

Songs broke down in curses. It was tragic. FOOTNOTES:[ 1] This was written
before the days of the" Submarine Blockade." CHAPTER II. THE JOURNEY TO THE FRONT
We made a triumphant departure from Carlow, preceded down to the station by
the band of the N. V. We were told off to prevent anybody entering
the station, but all the men entered magnificently, saying they were
volunteers, and the.

But the back streets of Dublin were patriotic enough, and at the docks,
which we reached just after dark, a small, tremendously enthusiastic
crowd was gathered to see us off.

They sang songs and cheered, and cheered and sang songs." I can generally
bear the separation, but I don' t like the leave- taking."

The boat would not go off. The crowd on the boat and the crowd on the wharf made
patriotic noises until they were hoarse. At midnight our supporters had
nearly all gone away.

We who had seen our motor- cycles carefully hoisted on board ate
the buns and apples provided by"

Friends in Dublin" and chatted.

A young gunner told me of all his amours, and they were very numerous.

The whole of the Divisional Headquarters Staff, with all their horses,
were on the Archimedes, and we were so packed that when I tried to
find a place to sleep I discovered there was not an inch of space
left on the deck, so I passed an uncomfortable night on top of some
excruciatingly hard ropes.

We cast off about one in the morning.

The night was horribly cold, and a slow dawn was never more welcomed.

But day brought a new horror. The sun poured down on us, and the smell from
the horses packed closely below was almost unbearable; while, worst
of all, we had to go below to wash and to draw our rations. Then I was
first introduced to bully. The first apparently tin tastes delicious
and fills you rapidly.

You never actually grow to dislike it, and many times when extra hungry
I have longed for an extra tin. But when you have lived on bully for
three months( we have not been served out with fresh meat more than
a dozen times altogether),[ 2] how you long for any little luxuries
to vary the monotony of your food!

On the morning of the third day we passed a French destroyer women and
children rushed us with the victorious cry," We' ve downed the p' lice."
We steamed out of the station while the band played"

Come back to Erin" and" God save Ireland," and made an interminable journey
to Dublin.

At some of the villages they cheered,
at others they looked at us glumly with a small prize in tow, and
rejoiced greatly, and towards evening we dropped anchor off Havre. On
either side of the narrow entrance to the docks there were cheering
crowds, and we cheered back, thrilled, occasionally breaking into
the soldier' s anthem," It' s a long, long way to Tipperary."[ 3]
We disembarked at a secluded wharf, and after waiting about for a
do all sorts of things to the German women if couple of hours or so--
we had not then learned to wait-- we were marched off to a huge dim
warehouse, where we were given gallons of the most delicious hot coffee,
and bought scrumptious little cakes.

It was now quite dark, and, for what seemed whole nights, we sat
wearily waiting while the horses were taken off the transport.

We
made one vain dash for our quarters, but found only another enormous warehouse,
strangely lit, full of clattering waggons and restive horses. We watched with
wonder a battery clank out into the night, and then returned sleepily to
the wharf- side. Very late we found where we were to sleep, a gigantic
series of wool warehouses.

The warehouses were full of wool and the wool was full of fleas. We were
very miserable, and a little bread and wine we managed to get hold
of hardly cheered us at all.

I feared the fleas, and spread a waterproof sheet on the bare stones outside.
I thought I should not get a wink of sleep on such a Jacobean resting-
place, but, as a matter of fact, I slept like a top, and woke in
the morning without even an ache.

But
those who had risked the wool----!

We breakfasted off the strong, sweet tea that I have grown to like so much,
and some bread, butter, and chocolate we bought off a smiling old woman
at the warehouse gates. Later in the morning we were allowed into
the town. First, a couple of us went into a café to have a drink, and
when we came out we found our motor- cycles garlanded with flowers
by two admiring flappers.

Everywhere we went we were the gods of a very proper worship, though
the shopkeepers in their admiration did not forget to charge. We spent
a long, lazy day in lounging through the town, eating a lot of little
meals and in visiting the public baths-- the last bath I was to have,
if I had only known it, for a month.

A cheery, little, bustling town Havre seemed to us, basking in a bright sunshine,
and the hopes of our early overwhelming victory. We all stalked about,
prospective conquerors, and talked fluently of the many defects of
the German army.

Orders came in the
afternoon that we were to move that night. I sat up until twelve,
and gained as my reward some excellent hot tea and a bit of rather
tough steak. At twelve everybody was woken up and the company got ready
to move. We motor- cyclists were sent off to the station.

Foolishly I went by myself. Just outside what I thought was the station
I ran out of petrol. I walked to the station and waited for the others.
They did not come. I searched the station, but found nothing except a
cavalry brigade entraining. I rushed about feverishly.

There was no one I knew,
no one who had heard anything of my company. Then I grew horribly frightened
that I should be left behind.

I pelted back to the old warehouses, but found everybody had left two hours ago.
I thought the company must surely have gone by now, and started
in my desperation asking everybody I knew if they had seen anything of
the company.

Luckily I came across an entraining officer,
who told me that the company were entraining at" Point Six- Hangar
de Laine,"-- three miles away. I simply ran there, asking my way of
surly, sleepy sentries, tripping over ropes, nearly falling into docks. I found
the Signal Company.

There was not a sign of our train. So Johnson took me on his carrier
back to the station I had searched in such fear. We found the motor-
cycle, Johnson gave me some petrol, and we returned to Point Six.

It was dawn when the old train at last rumbled and squeaked into the siding.
I do not know how long we took to entrain, I was so sleepy. But the sun was just rising when
the little trumpet shrilled, the long train creaked over the points,
and we woke for a moment to murmur-- By Jove, we' re off now,-- and I whispered
thankfully to myself-- Thank heaven I found them at last.

We were lucky enough to be only six in our compartment, but, as you know, in a French IIIme there is very little
room, while the seats are fiercely hard. And we had not yet been served out with blankets. Still, we had
to stick it for twenty- four hours. Luckily the train stopped at every
station of any importance, so, taking the law into our own hands,
we got out and stretched our legs at every opportunity.

We travelled viâ Rouen and Amiens to Landrecies. The Signal Company
had a train to itself.

Gradually
we woke up to find ourselves travelling through extraordinarily pretty
country and cheering crowds.

At each level- crossing the curé was there to bless us. If we did not stop the
people threw in fruit, which we vainly endeavoured to catch. A halt, and
they were round us, beseeching us for souvenirs, loading us with fruit, and
making us feel that it was a fine thing to fight in a friendly country.
At Rouen we drew up at a siding, and sent porters scurrying for bread
and butter and beer, while we loaded up from women who came down to
the train with all sorts of delicious little cakes and sweets.

We stopped,
and then rumbled slowly towards Amiens. At St Roche we first saw wounded,
and heard, I do not know with what truth, that four aviators had
been killed, and that our General, Grierson, had died of heart failure.

At Ham they measured me against a lamp- post, and ceremoniously marked
the place.

The next time I passed through Ham I had no time to look for the mark! It
began to grow dark, and the trees standing out against the sunset reminded me
of our two lines of trees at home. We went slowly over bridges, and looked
fearfully from our windows for bursting shells. Soon we fell asleep, and
were wakened about midnight by shouted orders. We had arrived at Landrecies,
near enough the Frontier to excite us. I wonder if you realise at home
what the Frontier meant to us at first?

We conceived it as a thing guarded everywhere by intermittent
patrols of men staring carefully towards Germany and Belgium in the
darkness, a thing to be defended at all costs, at all times, to be
crossed with triumph and recrossed with shame.

We did not understand what an enormous, incredible thing modern war was--
how it cared nothing for frontiers, or nations, or people. Very wearily
we unloaded our motor bicycles and walked to the barracks, where
we put down our kit and literally feel asleep, to be wakened for fatigue
work.

We rose at dawn, and had some coffee at a little estaminet,[ 4] where a middle- aged dame, horribly arch,
cleaned my canteen for me," pour l' amour de toi."

We managed an excellent breakfast of bacon and eggs before establishing
the Signal Office at the barracks. A few of us rode off to keep touch with the
various brigades that were billeted round. The rest of us spent the morning across
the road at an inn drinking much wine- and- water and planning out
the war on a forty- year- old map.

In the afternoon I went out with two others to prospect some roads, very
importantly. We were rather annoyed to lose our way out of the town, and
were very short with some inquisitive small boys who stood looking
over our shoulders as we squatted on the grass by the wayside studying
our maps.

We had some tea at a mad village called Hecq. All the inhabitants were old,
ugly, smelly, and dirty; and they crowded round us as we devoured a magnificent
omelette, endeavouring to incite us to ever we reached Germany. We returned
home in the late afternoon to hear rumours of an advance next day.

Three of us
wandered into the Square to have a drink.

There I first tried a new pipe that had been given me.

The one pipe I brought with me I had dropped out of the train between Amiens and Landrecies. It had been
quite a little tragedy, as it was a pipe for which I had a great
affection.

It had been my companion in Switzerland and Paris. Coming back from the Square I came across an
excited crowd. It appears that an inoffensive, rather buxom- looking
woman had been walking round the Square when one of her breasts cooed and
flew away.

We shot three spies at Landrecies. I hung round the Signal Office, nervous
and excited, for" a run." The night was alive with the tramp of troops
and the rumble of guns. The old 108th passed by-- huge good- natured guns,
each drawn by eight gigantic plough- horses.

I wonder
if you can understand-- the thrilling excitement of waiting and listening
by night in a town full of troops. At midnight I took my first despatch.
It was a dark, starless night; very misty on the road.

From the brigade I was sent on to an ambulance-- an unpleasant ride, because, apart from the mist and the
darkness, I was stopped every few yards by sentries of the West Kents, a regiment which has now about
the best reputation of any battalion out here. I returned in time
to snatch a couple of hours of sleep before we started at dawn for
Belgium. When the Division moves we ride either with the column or go in
advance to the halting- place.

  Of
course the one selected was the younger.  Will had seen me in my livery, and his plan was to
obtain a similar one, hire a chariot, and go down to Brentford, with a request that Miss Smith
might be sent up with him immediately, as you were so ill that you were not expected to live;
but previous to his taking this step, he wrote to Melchior, requesting his orders as to how
he was to proceed when he had obtained the child.  The answer from Melchior arrived.  By this
time, he had discovered that you were in Ireland, and intended to visit him; perhaps he had
you in confinement, for I do not know how long you were there, but the answer desired Will
to come over immediately, as there would be in all probability work for him, that would be
well paid for. He had now become so intimate with me, that he disguised nothing: he showed
me the letter, and I asked him what it meant; he replied that there was somebody to put out
of the way, that was clear.  It immediately struck me, that you must be the person, if such
was the case, and I volunteered to go with him, to which, after some difficulty, he consented.
We travelled outside the mail, and in four days we arrived at the castle.  Will went up to
Melchior, who told him what it was that he required.  Will consented, and then stated he had
another hand with him, which might be necessary, vouching for my doing anything that was required.
Melchior sent for me, and I certainly was afraid that he would discover me, but my disguise
was too good.  I had prepared for it still further, by wearing a wig of light hair: he asked
me some questions, and I replied in a surly, dogged tone, which satisfied him. The reward was
two hundred pounds, to be shared between us; and, as it was considered advisable that we should
not be seen after the affair was over, by the people about the place, we had the horses provided
for us. The rest you well know.  I was willing to make sure that it was you before I struck
the scoundrel, and the first glimpse from the lantern, and your voice, convinced me.  Thank
God, Japhet, but I have been of some use to you, at all events."

"My dear Tim, you have, indeed, and you know me too well, to think I shall ever forget it;
but now I must first ascertain where the will of the late Sir William is to be found.  We can
read it for a shilling, and then I may discover what are the grounds of Melchior's conduct,
for, to me, it is still inexplicable."

"Are wills made in Ireland registered here, or at Doctors' Commons in London."

"In Dublin, I should imagine."

But on my arrival at Dublin I felt so ill, that I was obliged to retire to bed, and before
morning I was in a violent fever.  Medical assistance was sent for, and I was nursed by Timothy
with the greatest care, but it was ten days before I could quit my bed.  For the first time,
I was sitting in an easy chair by the fire, when Timothy came in with the little portmanteau
I had left in the care of Mrs McShane.  "Open it, Timothy," said I, "and see if there be anything
in the way of a note from them."  Timothy opened the portmanteau, and produced one, which was
lying on the top.  It was from Kathleen, and as follows:--

  "Dear Sir,--They say there is terrible work at the castle, and that
  Sir Henry has blown out his brains, or cut his throat, I don't know
  which.  Mr McDermott passed in a great hurry, but said nothing to
  anybody here.  I will send you word of what has taken place as soon as
  I can.  The morning after you went away, I walked up to the castle and
  gave the key to the lady, who appeared in a great fright at Sir Henry
  not having been seen for so long a while.  They wished to detain me
  after they had found him in the cellar with the dead man, but after
  two hours I was desired to go away, and hold my tongue.  It was after
  the horses went back that Sir Henry is said to have destroyed himself.
  I went up to the castle, but McDermott had given orders for no one to
  be let in on any account.

  "Yours,

  "Kathleen McShane."

"This is news, indeed," said I, handing the letter to Timothy.  "It must have been my threatening
letter which has driven him to this mad act."

"Very likely," replied Timothy; "but it was the best thing the scoundrel could do, after all."

"The letter was not, however, written, with that intention.  I wished to frighten him, and
have justice done to little Fleta--poor child! how glad I shall be to see her!"

PART TWO, CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

ANOTHER INVESTIGATION RELATIVE TO A CHILD, WHICH, IN THE SAME WAY AS THE FORMER ONE, ENDS BY
THE LADY GOING OFF IN A FIT.

The next day the newspapers contained a paragraph, in which Sir Henry de Clare was stated to
have committed suicide.  No reason could be assigned for this rash act, was the winding up
of the intelligence.  I also received another letter from Kathleen McShane, confirming the
previous accounts: her mother had been sent for to assist in laying out the body. There was
now no further doubt, and as soon as I could venture out, I hastened to the proper office,
where I read the will of the late Sir William.  It was very short, merely disposing of his
personal property to his wife, and a few legacies; for, as I discovered, only a small portion
of the estates were entailed with the title, and the remainder was not only to the heirs male,
but the eldest female, should there be no male heir, with the proviso, that should she marry,
the husband was to take upon himself the name of De Clare.  Here, then, was the mystery explained,
and why Melchior had stolen away his brother's child. Satisfied with my discovery, I determined
to leave for England immediately, find out the Dowager Lady de Clare, and put the whole case
into the hands of Mr Masterton.  Fortunately, Timothy had money with him sufficient to pay
all expenses, and take us to London, or I should have been obliged to wait for remittances,
as mine was all expended before I arrived at Dublin.  We arrived safe, and I immediately proceeded
to my house, where I found Harcourt, who had been in great anxiety about me.  The next morning
I went to my old legal friend, to whom I communicated all that had happened.

"Well done, Newland," replied he, after I had finished.  "I'll bet ten to one that you find
out your father.  Your life already would not make a bad novel.  If you continue your hairbreadth
adventures in this way, it will be quite interesting."

Although satisfied in my own mind that I had discovered Fleta's parentage, and anxious to impart
the joyful intelligence, I resolved not to see her until everything should be satisfactorily
arranged.  The residence of the Dowager Lady de Clare was soon discovered by Mr Masterton:
it was at Richmond, and thither he and I proceeded.  We were ushered into the drawing-room,
and, to my delight, upon her entrance, I perceived that it was the same beautiful person in
whose ears I had seen the coral and gold ear-rings matching the necklace belonging to Fleta.
I considered it better to allow Mr Masterton to break the subject.

"You are, madam, the widow of the late Sir William de Clare."  The lady bowed.  "You will excuse
me, madam, but I have most important reasons for asking you a few questions, which otherwise
may appear to be intrusive.  Are you aware of the death of his brother, Sir Henry de Clare?"

"Indeed I was not," replied she, "I seldom look at a paper, and I have long ceased to correspond
with anyone in Ireland.  May I ask you what occasioned his death?"

"He fell by his own hands, madam."

Lady de Clare covered up her face.  "God forgive him!" said she, in a low voice.

"Lady de Clare, upon what terms were your husband and the late Sir Henry?  It is important
to know."

"Not on the very best, sir.  Indeed, latterly, for years, they never met or spoke: we did not
know what had become of him."

"Were there any grounds for ill-will?"

"Many, sir, on the part of the elder brother; but none on that of Sir Henry, who was treated
with every kindness, until he--" Lady de Clare stopped--"until he behaved very ill to him."

As we afterwards discovered, Henry de Clare had squandered away the small portion left him
by his father and had ever after that been liberally supplied by his eldest brother, until
he had attempted to seduce Lady de Clare, upon which he was dismissed for ever.

"And now, madam, I must revert to a painful subject.  You had a daughter by your marriage?"

"Yes," replied the lady, with a deep sigh.

"How did you lose her?  Pray do not think I am creating this distress on your part without
strong reasons."

"She was playing in the garden, and the nurse, who thought it rather cold, ran in for a minute
to get a handkerchief to tie round her neck. When the nurse returned, the child had disappeared."
Lady de Clare put her handkerchief up to her eyes.

"Where did you find her afterwards?"

"It was not until three weeks afterwards that her body was found in a pond about a quarter
of a mile off."

"Did the nurse not seek her when she discovered that she was not in the garden?"

"She did, and immediately ran in that direction.  It is quite strange that the child could
have got so far without the nurse perceiving her."

"How long is it ago?"

"It is now nine years."

"And the age of the child at the time?"

"About six years old."

"I think, Newland, you may now speak to Lady de Clare."

"Lady de Clare, have you not a pair of ear-rings of coral and gold of very remarkable workmanship?"

"I have, sir," replied she, with surprise.

"Had you not a necklace of the same? and if so, will you do me the favour to examine this?"
I presented the necklace.

"Merciful heaven!" cried Lady de Clare, "it is the very necklace!--it was on my poor Cecilia
when she was drowned, and it was not found with the body.  How came it into your possession,
sir?  At one time," continued Lady de Clare, weeping, "I thought that it was possible that
the temptation of the necklace, which has a great deal of gold in it, must, as it was not found
on her corpse, have been an inducement for the gipsies, who were in the neighbourhood, to drown
her; but Sir William would not believe it, rather supposing that in her struggles in the water
she must have broken it, and that it had thus been detached from her neck.  Is it to return
this unfortunate necklace that you have come here?"

"No, madam, not altogether.  Had you two white ponies at the time?"

"Yes, sir." 

He was a shipping merchant, banker and large property owner. Such men
as Charles Carroll, Aaron Burr, John Paul Jones, John Marshall,
Thomas Jefferson, George Mason, George Washington, and the two Fairfaxes
are but a few of those who gathered here for good food, good wine,
and better talk.

The house has been
sadly abused with no thought given its architectural merits and much
of the woodwork has been removed.

The" Congress of Alexandria" met here Monday, April 14, 1755, and on the
following Tuesday and Wednesday, when with Braddock and the five colonial
governors plans were made for concerted action against the French of Charles
II, had come into possession of some five million acres of Virginia
land lying between the Rappahannock and the Potomac, and extending
from Chesapeake Bay to the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains,
known to Virginians as the Northern Neck); and to serve as Collector
of Customs for the South.

Carlyle was appointed collector of His Majesty' s customs on the South
Potomac in 1758, succeeding his father- in- law, William Fairfax.

About this time William Fairfax completed his dwelling house, Belvoir,
situated on a high bluff overlooking the Potomac River, halfway between
Mount Vernon and Gunston Hall. These were imported," just as they imported
Madeira wine and other luxuries."

In 1774 he built the Presbyterian meetinghouse. 1 and 2] of full blood,
viz: A ch. m. with a star and two white heels behind, eight years old: Got
by Wilson' s Chestnut Arabian: her dam by Slipby, brother to Snap' s dam;
and out of Menil[ sic] the dam of Trunnion. Fairfax first went to Westmoreland,
where he was associated with the Washington and Lee families.

D' Arcy' s Arabian: her dam by Whiteshirt: out of a famous mare of Ld
parentage.

Mr. Taylor Burke, grandson of John W. Burke, and president of the Burke& Herbert
Bank, administered the estate of the late Mrs. Eleanor Washington
Howard, and distributed her estate, composed of the remainder of that
purchase price, among her heirs.[ 81] Chapter 4 The Fairfaxes of Belvoir
and Alexandria Of the families in Virginia closely associated with
George Washington, none bore so intimate a relation as that of Fairfax.

In 1772 Carlyle took over the incompleted work on Christ Church and
carried it to completion.

A pure Adam loggia, executed in stone, runs across the garden façade.
One of the early Maryland gazettes of July 29, 1762 carries the following
advertisement: Imported by Carlyle& Dalton in the ship Christian,
Captain Stanly, and for sale, three horses[ Thorne' s Starling: Smith'
s Hero, and Leary' s Old England] and three mares[ the other two being
the Rock- mares Nos.

In between times he was hunting at Belvoir and Mount Vernon, dancing at Alexandria assemblies,
sitting as town trustee and gentleman justice, journeying to England and back,
laying out and planting his garden, taking part in long, hot arguments
with his family and neighbors in the ever- widening breach between
the colonies and the mother country, breeding race horses, and joining
in the frolics of the Jockey Club.

Within three years Dalton had finished a small frame- and- brick cottage,
neatly paneled, in which he is purported to have lived and died. Too ill for active
military service, he nevertheless served as a member of the Committee
of Safety until his death in 1780, at the age and Indians.

The mansion and all other property were for a brief period the property
of his only son.

This letter set into movement a chain of events disastrous to the
mother country.

In 1734 Fairfax came to Virginia as agent for his first cousin, Thomas,
Sixth Lord Fairfax( who, by direct inheritance from a royal grant
of sixty.

This
sale was negotiated by the Alexandria banker, John W. Burke, who was appointed executor and guardian
of John Augustine Washington' s estate after he was killed during the Civil War while on active duty as a member
of General Robert E. Lee' s staff. To his daughter, Sarah Herbert, he left thirty feet on Fairfax
Street and one hundred feet on Cameron Street, to include his dryware
house. Here that famous letter, still in existence, was written,
urging upon the British government the necessity of taxing the colonies
The two are treated as one house in all the documentary evidence,
and one' s curiosity, interest, and imagination are excited by the
twin or married houses.

Alas, for the plans of men! It was described by Washington in an
advertisement as having" four convenient rooms and a wide Hall on the first floor."
Lee. Whether Jonah Thompson built the first for his bank or business
offices, or whether his family outgrew the house and he needed more
room is not known.

On April 24, 1793, Catherine and her husband, William Bird, sold to Jonah
Thompson and David Findley for£ 1,500( about$ 7,500) the property
described as being in Fairfax Street, 60 feet to the north of Cameron,
and extending north upon Fairfax Street 119 feet 3 inches to the line
of Herbert, Potts and Wilson, thence East parallel to Cameron to cross
Water and Union Streets into the Potomac River, thence with a line
parallel to Fairfax south 119 feet 3 inches, and included houses,
buildings, streets, lanes, alleys, and so on.

By 1741 he was representing Prince William County in the House of Burgesses. When a man knew
what he wanted, and got it by God' s help and his own tenacity, enjoying
himself right lustily in the getting.

Built in the days when Virginia was a man' s world, when men who wore satin, velvet and damask were masters
of the art of fighting, riding, drinking, eating, and wooing. Becoming President of the Council
in 1744, he continued in that office until his death. Chapter 3 The Married Houses[ 209- 211 North Fairfax
Street. His appointment was the first after the original selection of trustees by the assembly in Williamsburg.
When the latter lot, which lay on Cameron and Fairfax, was put up later
in the day, it was purchased by Dalton for sixteen pistoles. The lot
faced the Potomac River and was bounded by Water( now Lee) Street,
Fairfax Street and lot No. 37.

Heir to a title old and honorable as it was, he ardently espoused
the cause of the colonies.

The house faced on Cameron Street, standing about the middle of lot No.
37, with an extensive garden running the depth of the premises to the
river, surrounded by road outbuildings, orchards, wells, and so on,
as was the custom of the times. The Union authorities knew of the sale
of Mount Vernon and repeated but futile efforts were made to find
the securities.

His will further stated that the house must be finished out of his estate. The Jonah Thompson house,
most interesting houses to be found anywhere. On February 27, 1750, John Dalton succeeded Richard
Osborn as a trustee of the town.

Owner: Mrs. Herbert E. Marshburn.] When the new town of Alexandria was laid out, John Dalton purchased,
on July 13, 1749, part of it at least already built in 1793, is one
of the the first lot put up for sale( No. 36) for the sum of nineteen
pistoles.

Mr. Burke' s home was searched no less than three times. He was a pew owner
with George Washington at Christ Church, which he served as vestryman. In
1859 John Augustine Washington sold the the Mount Vernon estate to
Miss Cunningham for two hundred thousand dollars-- after the Virginia
Legislature and the federal government had both refused to acquire it.

Before he was twenty-
six he had acted as chief justice of the Bahamas and Governor of the Isle
of Providence.

On January 12, 1769, Washington went up to Alexandria to" ye Monthly Ball." In one of these" convenient
rooms," more than two hundred years ago on July 19, 1743, Anne, eldest
daughter of Colonel Fairfax was married to Lawrence Washington of
Mount Vernon.

Dalton' s."[ 79] John Dalton' s bequest to his daughter, Catherine,
included the home place.

Let us go into the dining room with its fine Adam mantel and its
mahogany doors, and visualize again the terrapin and the canvasback,
the Madeira and Port so abundantly provided from that great kitchen
below, and the most famous wine cellar of its day in Alexandria.

Prior to 1717 he married Sarah Walker of Nassau, daughter of Colonel
Walker, by whom he had four children, George William, Thomas, Anne,
and Sarah.

Jonah Thompson was an important citizen of Alexandria.

  When his will was opened, it was by the side of Sarah he wished to be
  buried:" As to my Body, I desire it may be interred under the
  Tombstone in the enclosed ground in the Presbyterian Yard near where
my first wife and children are interred."[ 76] This house was the
social and political center of Alexandria.

  

  He married Margaret Peyton and they had three sons, Israel, William Edward,
and James; a daughter, Mary Ann, married a Mr. Popham, and another
daughter, Eugenia, married a Mr. Morgan.

Captain John Dalton forged a link between Mount Vernon, his family, and
his posterity that was stronger than he knew.

It is unusually large and has two handsome arched stone entrances. Benjamin Hallowell, in turn, sold
to James S. Hallowell for nine thousand dollars in April 1854, and from James S. Hallowell and his wife the
property passed through various hands until it became St. Mary' s Academy. To his daughter, Catherine(
later Mrs. William Bird), he left the remainder of the lot which included his dwelling and another
house on that same lot, at the time occupied by John Page. In May 1850,
the heirs of Jonah Thompson sold to Benjamin Hallowell for$ 4,600
a lot beginning at the south side of the alley which divided the block,
running south 43 feet 7 inches.

One, although similar, obviously was added, as the line of demarcation is
plainly visible between the bricks.

Any visitor of importance was entertained at" coffee"; the house was often
filled with music, and" balls" were common.

The stair is perhaps the finest in Alexandria, with spindles and risers carved
in a more elaborate fashion than was the practice of the thrifty
Scotsmen of Alexandria.

No search of records reveals how or why these two houses stand back to back. The front of this house
boasts the loveliest bit of Georgian architecture left in the old seaport. In 1773 he bought pew
No. 19. While arches are now filled in and clothes hung to dry flap on the
gallery, the outline is so chaste in its classic form that nothing
can destroy the illusion of beauty. At the rear of this large house,
separated only by a narrow area, stands another house, facing the
long garden and originally the river.

Enough of serious and sad history; let us in vein go I once more into the lovely
paneled blue room where not only weighty conferences occurred, but where, in lace
and satin, noble figures threw aside the cares of state and trod
a measure to the tinkling of the spinet; where games of cards were
indulged in and the pistoles changed hands.

In his will he expressed Harcourt the utmost concern for the education
of this boy, George William Carlyle, and urged his executors to spare
no expense and to send him to the best schools.

One story has it that Jonah Thompson built the rear or twin house for his eldest son so that the two families
might be together but with separate ménages. In 1809 Jonah Thompson mortgaged
this property to the Bank of Alexandria for$ 13,500, which he paid within
four years. In 1729, Colonel Fairfax was appointed Collector of the
Port of Salem, Massachusetts, and removed to that colony. This great-
granddaughter of John Dalton was Ann Pamela Cunningham, whose name will
ever be indissolubly connected with Mount Vernon.

Next he moved to King George, and lived at Falmouth. With his wife
and daughter, he was a frequent visitor at Mount Vernon and a later
chronicler has asserted that he barely missed becoming the General' s
father- in- law. John Carlyle divided his lands, named after the Scottish
family holdings, Limkiln, Bridekirk, Torthorwald Taken, between his
two grandsons, Carlyle Fairfax Whiting and John Carlyle Herbert. When
the war broke out, Alexandria was occupied by Union troops. His will
mentioned the fact that he lived on this lot and left to his daughter,
Jenny Dalton( later Mrs. Thomas Herbert), his new brick building on
the corner of Fairfax and Cameron.

John Dalton was
a partner of John Carlyle in the firm of Carlyle& Dalton, which for many years
acted as agent for the Mount Vernon produce. The funds were never found
in their hiding place of the soiled- clothes basket. Educated as a member of
the governing classes, he began his career in the navy, later entering
the colonial service.

An interesting sequel to the story occurred only a short time ago when the
last of John Augustine Washington' s children died.

Montagu' s. JOHN CARLYLE[ 77] Alexandria, Va., July 1762. William Fairfax, founder of the Virginia branch of
the family, was born in 1691 in Towlston in Yorkshire, England, the
son of the Honorable Henry Fairfax, Sheriff of Yorkshire, and grandson of
the Fourth Lord Fairfax. There they reposed until Mrs. Burke( née Trist,
great- granddaughter of Thomas Jefferson) and Mrs. Upton Herbert(
née Tracy), both Philadelphia- born ladies, sewed the bonds in their
petticoats and with high heads carried them through the Union lines
to Washington and delivered them to George W. Riggs, who held them
for the duration of the war, when he returned them to Alexandria--
and Mr. Burke.

A fox- hunter and horse- lover, in a company of Alexandria gentlemen
or alone, he hunted with Washington and bred his mares to the blooded Mount
Vernon stud. But the Birds reserved the right to the" use and occupation
of the dwelling House now occupied" and the kitchen and garden, until the"
1st day of October next" and also reserved unto Lanty Crowe the house"
demised unto him to the end of his term, he paying the annual rent
thereof unto the said Jonah Thompson and David Findley."[ 80] Findley
died within the year and Jonah Thompson bought from Amelia Findley,
the mother and heir of David Findley, equal and undivided portion
of the already described lot and paid her the sum of£ 500 12s.

It was his granddaughter who was so deeply distressed at the ruin and desolation
of the home of Washington that she fired her daughter' s imagination with
an idea that saved the spot for the nation. In 1731 his wife died, and very shortly
afterward he married Deborah, widow of Francis Clarke and daughter
of Colonel Bartholomew Gedney of Salem, by whom he had three children,
Bryan, William Henry, and Hannah.

It resulted in the loathed Stamp Act and led ultimately to the Revolution
of 1775.

Menil was got by Partner: out of Sampson' s- Sister, which was got by Greyhound:
her grandam by Curwen' s Bay Barb: her g. grandam by Ld. In 1853 she formed
the Mount Vernon Ladies' Association, and as its first regent stirred the
women of America with her ardor and directed the entire campaign until adequate
funds were collected.

Let us stroll in the still lovely garden where
the aroma of box and honeysuckle mingle, and turn our thoughts
once more to the inmates of this fine, old house. Colonel Fairfax was
elevated to" His Majesty' s Council of State" three years later.

Perchance Major John Carlyle, clad in Saxon green laced with silver,
will be wandering up and down his box- bordered paths with his first
love, Sarah Fairfax, watching the moon light up the rigging of Carlyle&
Dalton' s great ships at anchor just at the foot of the.

In 1762 he was importing race horses into the colony. The lad, fired by the talk of father and friends,
was serving in Lee' s Legion in 1781, and ere John Carlyle was moldering
in his grave this boy of seventeen years, spirited, brave, heir to
large estates, great fortune and honorable name, and to the title
of Lord Carlyle, was dead at Eutaw Springs, led by that boy hardly
older than himself"

Light Horse Harry" He lodged with Captain Dalton and the next day being
very bad he was" confined there till afternoon by rain."[ 78] Sometimes
when attending court he" lodged at Captn.



"My dear sir," replied I, "I am very much obliged for your kind and considerate conduct; there
are more who are inclined to calumniate than to defend."

"And always will be in this world, Mr Newland; but I have a fellow feeling.  I recollect how
I was received and flattered when I was introduced as a young man of fortune, and how I was
deserted and neglected when I was cleaned out.  I know now why they are so civil to me, and
I value their civility at just as much as it is worth.  Will you accept my arm:--I am going
your way."

I could not refuse; but I coloured when I took it, for I felt that I was not adding to my reputation
by being seen in his company; and still I felt, that although not adding to my reputation,
I was less likely to receive insult, and that the same cause which induced them to be civil
to him, would perhaps operate when they found me allied with him.  "Be it so," thought I, "I
will, if possible, extort politeness."

We were strolling down Bond Street, when we met a young man, well known in the fashionable
circles, who had dropped my acquaintance, after having been formerly most pressing to obtain
it.  Atkinson faced him.

"Good morning, Mr Oxberry."

"Good morning, Captain Atkinson," replied Mr Oxberry.

"I thought you knew my friend Mr Newland?" observed Atkinson, rather fiercely.

"Oh! really--I quite--I beg pardon.  Good morning, Mr Newland; you have been long absent. 
I did not see you at Lady Maelstrom's last night."

"No," replied I, carelessly, "nor will you ever.  When you next see her ladyship, ask her,
with my compliments, whether she has had another fainting fit."

"I shall certainly have great pleasure in carrying your message, Mr Newland--good morning."

"That fool," observed Atkinson, "will now run all over town, and you will see the consequence."

We met one or two others, and to them Atkinson put the same question, "I thought you knew my
friend Mr Newland?"  At last, just as we arrived at my own house in Saint James's Street, who
should we meet but Harcourt. Harcourt immediately perceived me, and bowed low as he passed
on; so that his bow would have served for both; but Atkinson stopped.  "I must beg your pardon,
Harcourt, for detaining you a moment, but what are the odds upon the Vestris colt for the Derby?"

"Upon my word, Captain Atkinson, I was told, but I have forgotten."

"Your memory appears bad, for you have also forgotten your old friend, Mr Newland."

"I beg your pardon, Mr Newland."

"There is no occasion to beg my pardon, Mr Harcourt," interrupted I; "for I tell you plainly,
that I despise you too much to ever wish to be acquainted with you.  You will oblige me, sir,
by never presuming to touch your hat, or otherwise notice me."  Harcourt coloured, and started
back.  "Such language, Mr Newland--"

"Is what you deserve: ask your own conscience.  Leave us, sir;" and I walked on with Captain
Atkinson.  "You have done well, Newland," observed Atkinson: "he cannot submit to that language,
for he knows that I have heard it.  A meeting you will of course have no objection to.  It
will be of immense advantage to you."

"None whatever," replied I; "for if there is any one man who deserves to be punished for his
conduct towards me, it is Harcourt.  Will you come up, Captain Atkinson, and, if not better
engaged, take a quiet dinner and a bottle of wine with me?"

Our conversation during dinner was desultory; but after the first bottle, Atkinson became communicative,
and his history not only made me feel better inclined towards him, but afforded me another
instance, as well as Carbonnell's, how often it is that those who would have done well are
first plundered, and then driven to desperation by the heartlessness of the world.  The cases,
however, had this difference, that Carbonnell had always contrived to keep his reputation above
water, while that of Atkinson was gone and never to be re-established.  We had just finished
our wine when a note was brought from Harcourt, informing me that he should send a friend the
next morning for an explanation of my conduct.  I handed it over to Atkinson.  "My dear sir,
I am at your service," replied he, "without you have anybody among your acquaintances whom
you may prefer."

"Thank you," replied I, "Captain Atkinson: it cannot be in better hands."

"That is settled, then; and now where shall we go?"

"Wherever you please."

"Then I shall try if I can win a little money to-night: if you come you need not play--you
can look on.  It will serve to divert your thoughts, at all events."

I felt so anxious to avoid reflection, that I immediately accepted his offer; and, in a few
minutes, we were in the well-lighted room, and in front of the rouge et noir table, covered
with gold and bank notes. Atkinson did not commence his play immediately, but pricked the chances
on a card as they ran.  After half an hour he laid down his stakes, and was fortunate.  I could
no longer withstand the temptation, and I backed him; in less than an hour we both had won
considerably.

"That is enough," said he to me, sweeping up his money; "we must not try the slippery dame
too long."

I followed his example, and shortly afterwards we quitted the house.  "I will walk home with
you, Newland: never, if you can help it, especially if you have been a winner, leave a gaming
house alone."

Going home, I asked Atkinson if he would come up; he did so, and then we examined our winnings.
"I know mine," replied he, "within twenty pounds, for I always leave off at a certain point.
I have three hundred pounds, and something more."

He had won three hundred and twenty-five pounds.  I had won ninety pounds.  As we sat over
a glass of brandy and water, I inquired whether he was always fortunate.  "No, of course I
am not," replied Atkinson; "but on the whole, in the course of the year, I am a winner of sufficient
to support myself."

"Is there any rule by which people are guided who play?  I observed many of those who were
seated pricking the chances with great care, and then staking their money at intervals."

"Rouge et noir I believe to be the fairest of all games," replied Atkinson; "but where there
is a percentage invariably in favour of the bank, although one may win and another lose, still
the profits must be in favour of the bank.  If a man were to play all the year round, he would
lose the national debt in the end.  As for martingales, and all those calculations, which you
observed them so busy with, they are all useless.  I have tried everything, and there is only
one chance of success, but then you must not be a gambler."

"Not a gambler?"

"No; you must not be carried away by the excitement of the game, or you will infallibly lose.
You must have a strength of mind which few have, or you will be soon cleaned out."

"But you say that you win on the whole: have you no rule to guide you?"

"Yes, I have: strange as the chances are, I have been so accustomed to them, that I generally
put down my stake right: when I am once in a run of luck, I have a method of my own, but what
it is I cannot tell; only this I know, that if I depart from it, I always lose my money.  But
that is what you may call good luck, or what you please--it is not a rule."

"Where, then, are your rules?"

"Simply these two.  The first it is not difficult to adhere to: I make a rule never to lose
but a certain sum if I am unlucky when I commence-- say twenty stakes, whatever may be the
amount of the stake that you play.  This rule is easily adhered to, by not taking more money
with you; and I am not one of those to whom the croupier or porters will lend money.  The second
rule is the most difficult, and decides whether you are a gambler or not.  I make a rule always
to leave off when I have won a certain sum--or even before, if the chances of my game fluctuate.
There is the difficulty: it appears very foolish not to follow up luck; but the fact is, fortune
is so capricious, that if you trust her more than an hour, she will desert you.  This is my
mode of play, and with me it answers but it does not follow that it would answer with another.
But it is very late, or, rather, very early--I wish you a good night."

PART TWO, CHAPTER TWENTY NINE.

BECOME PRINCIPAL INSTEAD OF SECOND IN A DUEL, AND RISK MY OWN AND ANOTHER'S LIFE, MY OWN AND
OTHERS' HAPPINESS AND PEACE OF MIND, BECAUSE I HAVE BEEN PUNISHED AS I DESERVED.

After Captain Atkinson had left me, I stated to Timothy what had passed. "And do you think
you will have to fight a duel, sir?" cried Timothy with alarm.

"There is no doubt of it," replied I.

"You never will find your father, sir, if you go on this way," said Timothy, as if to divert
my attention from such a purpose.

"Not in this world, perhaps, Tim; perhaps I may be sent the right road by a bullet, and find
him in the next."

"Do you think your father, if dead, has gone to heaven?"

"I hope so, Timothy."

"Then what chance have you of meeting him, if you go out of the world attempting the life of
your old friend?"

"That is what you call a poser, my dear Timothy, but I cannot help myself: this I can safely
say, that I have no animosity against Mr Harcourt--at least, not sufficient to have any wish
to take away his life."

"Well, that's something, to be sure; but do you know, Japhet, I'm not quite sure you hit the
right road when you set up for a gentleman."

"No, Timothy, no man can be in the right road who deceives: I have been all wrong; and I am
afraid I am going from worse to worse: but I cannot moralise, I must go to sleep, and forget
everything, if I can."

The next morning, about eleven o'clock, a Mr Cotgrave called upon me on the part of Harcourt.
I referred him to Captain Atkinson, and he bowed and quitted the room.  Captain Atkinson soon
called: he had remained at home expecting the message, and had made every arrangement with
the second.  He stayed with me the whole day.  The major's pistols were examined and approved
of.  We dined, drank freely, and he afterwards proposed that I should accompany him to one
of the hells, as they are called.  This I refused, as I had some arrangements to make; and
as soon as he was gone I sent for Timothy.

"Tim," said I, "if I should be unlucky to-morrow, you are my executor and residuary legatee.
My will was made when in Dublin, and is in the charge of Mr Cophagus."

"Japhet, I hope you will allow me one favour, which is, to go to the ground with you.  I had
rather be there than remain here in suspense."

"Of course, my dear fellow, if you wish it," replied I; "but I must go to bed, as I am to be
called at four o'clock--so let's have no sentimentalising or sermonising.  Good night, God
bless you."

I was, at that time, in a state of mind which made me reckless of life or of consequences;
stung by the treatment which I received, mad with the world's contumely, I was desperate. 
True it was, as Mr Masterton said, I had not courage to buffet against an adverse gale.  Timothy
did not go to bed, and at four o'clock was at my side.  I rose, dressed myself with the greatest
care, and was soon joined by Captain Atkinson. We then set off in a hackney-coach to the same
spot to which I had, but a few months before, driven with poor Carbonnell.  His memory and
his death came like a cloud over my mind, but it was but for a moment.  I cared little for
life.  Harcourt and his second were on the ground a few minutes before us.  Each party saluted
politely, and the seconds proceeded to business.  We fired, and Harcourt fell, with a bullet
above his knee.  I went up to him, and he extended his hand.  "Newland," said he, "I have deserved
this.  I was a coward, in the first place, to desert you as I did--and a coward, in the second,
to fire at a man whom I had injured.  Gentlemen," continued he, appealing to the seconds, "recollect,
I, before you, acquit Mr Newland of all blame, and desire, if any further accident should happen
to me, that my relations will take no steps whatever against him."

Harcourt was very pale, and bleeding fast.  Without any answer I examined the wound, and found,
by the colour of the blood, and its gushing, that an artery had been divided.  My professional
knowledge saved his life.  I compressed the artery, while I gave directions to the others.
A handkerchief was tied tight round his thigh, above the wound--a round stone selected, and
placed under the handkerchief, in the femoral groove, and the ramrod of one of the pistols
then made use of as a winch, until the whole acted as a tourniquet.  I removed my thumbs, found
that the haemorrhage was stopped, and then directed that he should be taken home on a door,
and surgical assistance immediately sent for.

"You appear to understand these things, sir," said Mr Cotgrave.  "Tell me, is there any danger?"

"He must suffer amputation," replied I, in a low voice, so that Harcourt could not hear me.
"Pray watch the tourniquet carefully as he is taken home, for should it slip it will be fatal."

I then bowed to Mr Cotgrave, and, followed by Captain Atkinson, stepped into the hackney-coach
and drove home.  "I will leave you now, Newland," said Captain Atkinson: "it is necessary that
I talk this matter over, so that it is properly explained."

I thanked Captain Atkinson for his services, and was left alone; for I had sent Timothy to
ascertain if Harcourt had arrived safe at his lodgings.  Never did I feel more miserable; my
anxiety for Harcourt was indescribable; true, he had not treated me well, but I thought of
his venerable father, who pressed my hand so warmly when I left his hospitable roof--of his
lovely sisters, and the kindness and affection which they had shown towards me, and our extreme
intimacy.  I thought of the pain which the intelligence would give them, and their indignation
towards me, when their brother first made his appearance at his father's house, mutilated;
and were he to die--good God!  I was maddened at the idea.  I had now undone the little good
I had been able to do.  If I had made Fleta and her mother happy, had I not plunged another
family into misery?

PART TWO, CHAPTER THIRTY.

THIS IS A STRANGE WORLD; I AM CUT BY A MAN OF NO CHARACTER, BECAUSE HE IS FEARFUL THAT I SHOULD
INJURE HIS CHARACTER.

Timothy returned, and brought me consolation--the bleeding had not recommenced, and Harcourt
was in tolerable spirits.  An eminent surgeon had been sent for.  "Go again, my dear Timothy,
and as you are intimate with Harcourt's servant, you will be able to find out what they are about."

Timothy departed, and was absent about an hour, during which I lay on the sofa, and groaned
with anguish.  When he returned, I knew by his face that his intelligence was favourable.

"All's right," cried Timothy; "no amputation after all.  It was only one of the smaller arteries
which was severed, and they have taken it up."

I sprang up from the sofa and embraced Timothy, so happy was I with the intelligence, and then
I sat down again, and cried like a child.  At last I became more composed.  I had asked Captain
Atkinson to dine with me, and was very glad when he came.  He confirmed Timothy's report, and
I was so overjoyed, that I sat late at dinner, drinking very freely, and when he again proposed
that we should go to the rouge et noir table, I did not refuse--on the contrary, flushed with
wine, I was anxious to go, and took all the money that I had with me.  On our arrival Atkinson
played, but finding that he was not fortunate, he very soon left off. As I had followed his
game, I also had lost considerably, and he entreated me not to play any more--but I was a gamester,
it appeared, and I would not pay attention to him, and did not quit the table until I had lost
every shilling in my pocket.  I left the house in no very good humour, and Atkinson, who had
waited for me, accompanied me home.

"Newland," said he, "I don't know what you may think of me--you may have heard that I'm a roue,
etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, but this I always do, which is, caution those who are gamesters
from their hearts.  I have watched you to-night, and I tell you, that you will be ruined if
you continue to frequent that table.  You have no command over yourself.  I do not know what
your means may be, but this I do know, that if you were a Croesus, you would be a beggar. 
I cared nothing for you while you were the Mr Newland, the admired, and leader of the fashion;
but I felt for you when I heard that you were scouted from society, merely because it was found
out that you were not so rich as you were supposed to be. I had a fellow feeling, as I told
you.  I did not make your acquaintance to win your money--I can win as much as I wish from
the scoundrels who keep the tables, or from those who would not scruple to plunder others;
and I now entreat you not to return to that place--and am sorry, very sorry, that ever I took
you there.  To me, the excitement is nothing--to you it is overpowering.  You are a gamester,
or rather, you have it in your disposition.  Take, therefore, the advice of a friend, if I
may so call myself, and do not go there again.  I hope you are not seriously inconvenienced
by what you have lost to-night."

"Not the least," replied I.  "It was ready money.  I thank you for your advice, and will follow
it.  I have been a fool to-night, and one folly is sufficient."

Atkinson then left me.  I had lost about two hundred and fifty pounds, which included my winnings
of the night before.  I was annoyed at it, but I thought of Harcourt's safety, and felt indifferent.
The reader may recollect that I had three thousand pounds, which Mr Masterton had offered to
put out at mortgage for me, but until he could find an opportunity, by his advice I had bought
stock in the three per cents. Since that time he had not succeeded, as mortgages in general
are for larger sums, and it had therefore remained.  My rents were not yet due, and I was obliged
to have recourse to this money.  I therefore went into the city, and ordered the broker to
sell out two hundred pounds, intending to replace it as soon as I could--for I would not have
liked that Mr Masterton should have known that I had lost money by gambling. When I returned
from the city, I found Captain Atkinson in my apartments, waiting for me.

"Harcourt is doing well, and you are not doing badly, I have let all the world know that you
intend to call out whoever presumes to treat you with indifference."

"The devil you have! but that is a threat which may easier be made than followed up by deeds."

"Shoot two or three more," replied Atkinson, coolly, "and then, depend upon it, you'll have
it all your own way.  As it is, I acknowledge there has been some show of resistance, and they
talk of making a resolution not to meet you, on the score of your being an impostor."

"And a very plausible reason, too," replied I; "nor do I think I have any right--I am sure
I have no intention of doing as you propose. Surely, people have a right to choose their acquaintance,
and to cut me, if they think I have done wrong.  I am afraid, Captain Atkinson, you have mistaken
me; I have punished Harcourt for his conduct towards me-- he deserved punishment.  I had claims
on him; but I have not upon the hundreds, whom, when in the zenith of my popularity, I myself,
perhaps, was not over courteous to.  I cannot run the muck which you propose, nor do I consider
that I shall help my character by so doing.  I may become notorious, but certainly, I shall
not obtain that species of notoriety which will be of service to me.  No, no; I have done too
much, I may say, already; and, although not so much to blame as the world imagines, yet my
own conscience tells me, that by allowing it to suppose that I was what I was not, I have,
to say the least, been a party to the fraud, and must take the consequence.  My situation now
is very unpleasant, and I ought to retire, and, if possible, re-appear with real claims upon
the public favour.  I have still friends, thank God! and influential friends.  I am offered
a writership in India--a commission in the army--or to study the law.  Will you favour me with
your opinion?"

"You pay me a compliment by asking my advice.  A writership in India is fourteen years' transportation,
returning with plenty to live on, but no health to enjoy it.  In the army you might do well,
and, moreover, as an officer in the army, none dare refuse to go out with you.  At the same
time, under your peculiar circumstances, I think if you were in a crack regiment, you would,
in all probability, have to fight one half the mess, and be put in Coventry by the other. 
You must then exchange on half-pay, and your commission would be a great help to you.  As for
the law--I'd sooner see a brother of mine in his coffin.  There, you have my opinion."

"Not a very encouraging one, at all events," replied I, laughing; "but there is much truth
in your observations.  To India I will not go, as it will interfere with the great object of
my existence."

"And pray, if it be no secret, may I ask what that is?"

"To find out who is my father."

Captain Atkinson looked very hard at me.  "I more than once," said he, "have thought you a
little cracked, but now I perceive you are mad-- downright mad: don't be angry, I couldn't
help saying so, and if you wish me to give you satisfaction, I shall most unwillingly oblige you."

"No, no, Atkinson, I believe you are not very far wrong, and I forgive you--but to proceed.
The army, as you say, will give me a position in society, from my profession being that of
a gentleman, but as I do not wish to take the advantage which you have suggested from the position,
I shrink from putting myself into one which may lead to much mortification.  As for the law,
although I do not exactly agree with you in your abhorrence of the profession, yet I must say,
that I do not like the idea.  I have been rendered unfit for it by my life up to the present.
But I am permitted to select any other."

"Without wishing to pry into your affairs, have you sufficient to live upon?"

"Yes, in a moderate way; about a younger brother's portion, which will just keep me in gloves,
cigars, and eau de cologne."

"Then take my advice and be nothing.  The only difference I can see between a gentleman and
anybody else, is that one is idle and the other works hard.  One is a useless, and the other
a useful, member of society.  Such is the absurdity of the opinions of the world."

"Yes, I agree with you, and would prefer being a gentleman in that respect, and do nothing,
if they would admit me in every other; but that they will not do.  I am in an unfortunate position."

"And will be until your feelings become blunted as mine have been," replied Atkinson.  "Had
you acquiesced in my proposal you would have done better.  As it is, I can be of no use to
you; nay, without intending an affront, I do not know if we ought to be seen together, for
your decision not to fight your way is rather awkward, as I cannot back one with my support
who will not do credit to it.  Do not be angry at what I say; you are your own master, and
have a right to decide for yourself.  If you think yourself not so wholly lost as to be able
eventually to recover yourself by other means, I do not blame you, as I know it is only from
an error in judgment, and not from want of courage."

"At present I am, I acknowledge, lost, Captain Atkinson; but if I succeed in finding my father--"

"Good morning, Newland, good morning," replied he, hastily.  "I see how it is; of course we
shall be civil to each other when we meet, for I wish you well, but we must not be seen together,
or you may injure my character."

"Injure your character, Captain Atkinson?"

"Yes, Mr Newland, injure my character.  I do not mean to say but that there are characters
more respectable, but I have a character which suits me, and it has the merit of consistency.
As you are not prepared, as the Americans say, to go the whole hog, we will part good friends,
and if I have said anything to annoy you, I beg your pardon."

"Good-bye, then, Captain Atkinson; for the kindness you have shown me I am grateful."  He shook
my hand, and walked out of the room.  "And for having thus broken up our acquaintance, more
grateful still," thought I, as he went down stairs.

PART THREE, CHAPTER ONE.

I CUT MY NEW ACQUAINTANCE, BUT HIS COMPANY, EVEN IN SO SHORT A TIME, PROVES MY RUIN--NOTWITHSTANDING
I PART WITH ALL MY PROPERTY, I RETAIN MY HONESTY.

In the mean time, the particulars of the duel had found their way into the papers, with various
comments, but none of them very flattering to me; and I received a note from Mr Masterton,
who, deceived by the representations of that class of people who cater for newspapers, and
who are but too glad to pull, if they possibly can, everyone to their own level, strongly animadverted
upon my conduct, and pointed out the folly of it; adding, that Lord Windermear wholly coincided
with him in opinion, and had desired him to express his displeasure.  He concluded by observing,
"I consider this to be the most serious false step which you have hitherto made.  Because you
have been a party to deceiving the public, and because one individual, who had no objection
to be intimate with a young man of fashion, station, and affluence, does not wish to continue
the acquaintance with one of unknown birth and no fortune, you consider yourself justified
in taking his life.  Upon this principle, all society is at an end, all distinctions levelled,
and the rule of the gladiator will only be overthrown by the stiletto of the assassin."

I was but ill prepared to receive this letter.  I had been deeply thinking upon the kind offers
of Lord Windermear, and had felt that they would interfere with the primum mobile of my existence,
and I was reflecting by what means I could evade their kind intentions, and be at liberty to
follow my own inclinations, when this note arrived.  To me it appeared to be the height of
injustice.  I had been arraigned and found guilty upon an ex-parte statement.  I forgot, at
the time, that it was my duty to have immediately proceeded to Mr Masterton, and have fully
explained the facts of the case; and that, by not having so done, I left the natural impression
that I had no defence to offer.  I forgot all this, still I was myself to blame--I only saw
that the letter in itself was unkind and unjust--and my feelings were those of resentment.
What right have Lord Windermear and Mr Masterton thus to school and to insult me?  The right
of obligations conferred.  But is not Lord Windermear under obligations to me?  Have I not
preserved his secret? Yes; but how did I obtain possession of it?  By so doing, I was only
making reparation for an act of treachery.  Well, then, at all events, I have a right to be
independent of them, if I please--anyone has a right to assert his independence if he chooses.
Their offers or service only would shackle me, if I accepted of their assistance.  I will have
none of them.  Such were my reflections; and the reader must perceive that I was influenced
by a state of morbid irritability--a sense of abandonment which prostrated me.  I felt that
I was an isolated being without a tie in the whole world.  I determined to spurn the world
as it had spurned me.  To Timothy I would hardly speak a word.  I lay with an aching head,
aching from increased circulation.  I was mad, or nearly so.  I opened the case of pistols,
and thought of suicide--reflection alone restrained me.  I could not abandon the search after
my father.

Feverish and impatient, I wished to walk out, but I dared not meet the public eye.  I waited
till dark, and then I sallied forth, hardly knowing where I went.  I passed the gaming house--I
did pass it, but I returned and lost every shilling; not, however, till the fluctuations of
the game had persuaded me, that had I had more money to carry it on, I should have won.

I went to bed, but not to sleep; I thought of how I had been caressed and admired, when I was
supposed to be rich.  Of what use then was the money I possessed?  Little or none.  I made
up my mind that I would either gain a fortune, or lose that which I had.  The next morning
I went into the city, and sold out all the remaining stock.  To Timothy I had not communicated
my intentions.  I studiously avoided speaking to him: he felt hurt at my conduct, I perceived,
but I was afraid of his advice and expostulation.

At night-fall I returned to the hell--played with various success; at one time was a winner
of three times my capital, and I ended at last with my pockets being empty.  I was indifferent
when it was all gone, although in the highest state of excitement while the chances were turning
up.

The next day I went to a house-agent, and stated my wish to sell my house, for I was resolved
to try fortune to the last.  The agent undertook to find a ready purchaser, and I begged an
advance, which he made, and continued to make, until he had advanced nearly half the value.
He then found a purchaser (himself, as I believe) at two thirds of its value.  I did not hesitate,
I had lost every advance, one after another, and was anxious to retrieve my fortune or be a
beggar.  I signed the conveyance and received the balance, fifteen hundred and fifty pounds,
and returned to the apartments, no longer mine, about an hour before dinner.  I called Timothy,
and ascertaining the amount of bills due, gave him fifty pounds, which left him about fifteen
pounds as a residue.  I then sat down to my solitary meal, but just as I commenced I heard
a dispute in the passage.

"What is that, Timothy?" cried I, for I was nervous to a degree.

"It's that fellow Emmanuel, sir, who says that he will come up."

"Yesh, I vill go up, sar."

"Let him come, Timothy," replied I.  Accordingly Mr Emmanuel ascended. "Well, Emmanuel, what
do you want with me?" said I, looking with contempt at the miserable creature who entered as
before, with his body bent double, and his hand lying over his back.

"I vash a little out of breath, Mr Newland--I vash come to say dat de monish is very scarce--dat
I vill accept your offer, and vill take de hundred pounds and my tousand which I have lent
you.  You too mush gentleman not to help a poor old man, ven he ish in distress."

"Rather say, Mr Emmanuel, that you have heard that I have not ten thousand pounds per annum,
and that you are afraid that you have lost your money."

"Loshe my monish!--no--loshe my tousand pound!  Did you not say, dat you would pay it back
to me, and give me hundred pounds for my trouble; dat vash de last arrangement."

"Yes, but you refused to take it, so it is not my fault.  You must now stick to the first,
which is to receive fifteen hundred pounds when I come into my fortune."

"Your fortune, but you av no fortune."

"I am afraid not; and recollect, Mr Emmanuel, that I never told you that I had."

"Vill you pay me my monish, Mr Newland, or vill you go to prison?"

"You can't put me in prison for an agreement," replied I.

"No; but I can prosecute you for a swindler."

"No, you confounded old rascal, you cannot; try, and do your worst," cried I, enraged at the
word swindler.

"Vell, Mr Newland, if you have not de ten tousand a year, you have de house and de monish;
you vill not cheat a poor man like me."

"I have sold my house."

"You have sold de house--den you have neither de house or de monish. Oh! my monish, my monish!
Sare, Mr Newland, you are one damned rascal;" and the old wretch's frame quivered with emotion;
his hand behind his back shaking as much as the other which, in his rage, he shook in my face.

Enraged myself at being called such an opprobrious term, I opened the door, twisted him round,
and applying my foot to a nameless part, he flew out and fell down the stairs, at the turning
of which he lay, groaning in pain.

"Mine Got, mine Got, I am murdered," cried he.  "Fader Abraham, receive me."  My rage was appeased,
and I turned pale at the idea of having killed the poor wretch.  With the assistance of Timothy,
whom I summoned, we dragged the old man up stairs, and placed him in a chair, and found that
he was not very much hurt.  A glass of wine was given to him, and then, as soon as he could
speak, his ruling passion broke out again.  "Mishter Newland--ah, Mishter Newland, cannot you
give me my monish--cannot you give me de tousand pound, without de interest? you are very welcome
to de interest.  I only lend it to oblige you."

"How can you expect a damned rascal to do any such thing?" replied I.

"Damned rascal!  Ah! it vash I who vash a rascal, and vash a fool to say the word.  Mishter
Newland, you vash a gentleman, you vill pay me my monish.  You vill pay me part of my monish.
I have de agreement in my pocket, all ready to give up."

"If I have not the money, how can I pay you?"

"Fader Abraham, if you have not de monish--you must have some monish; den you will pay me a
part.  How much vill you pay me?"

"Will you take five hundred pounds, and return the agreement?"

"Five hundred pounds--lose half--oh!  Mr Newland--it was all lent in monish, not in goods;
you will not make me lose so much as dat?"

"I'm not sure that I will give you five hundred pounds; your bond is not worth two-pence, and
you know it."

"Your honour, Mishter Newland, is worth more dan ten tousand pounds: but if you have not de
monish, den you shall pay me de five hundred pounds which you offer, and I will give up de paper."

"I never offered five hundred pounds."

"Not offer; but you mention de sum, dat quite enough."

"Well, then, for five hundred pounds, you will give up the paper?"

"Yes; I vash content to loshe all de rest, to please you."

I went to my desk, and took out five hundred pounds in notes.  "Now, there is the money, which
you may put your hands on when you give up the agreement."  The old man pulled out the agreement
and laid it on the table, catching up the notes.  I looked at the paper to see if it was all
right, and then tore it up.  Emmanuel put the notes, with a heavy sigh, into his inside coat
pocket, and prepared to depart.  "Now, Mr Emmanuel, I will show that I have a little more honour
than you think for.  This is all the money I have in the world," said I, taking out of my desk
the remaining thousand pounds, "and half of it I give to you, to pay you the whole money which
you lent me.  Here is five hundred pounds more, and now we are quits."

The eyes of the old man were fixed upon me in astonishment, and from my face they glanced upon
the notes; he could, to use a common expression, neither believe his eyes nor his ears.  At
last he took the money, again unbuttoned, and pulled out his pocket-book, and with a trembling
hand stowed them away as before.

"You vash a very odd gentleman, Mishter Newland," said he; "you kick me down stairs, and--but
dat is noting."

"Good-bye, Mr Emmanuel," said I, "and let me eat my dinner."

PART THREE, CHAPTER TWO.

I RESOLVE TO BEGIN THE WORLD AGAIN, AND TO SEEK MY FORTUNE IN THE NEXT PATH--I TAKE LEAVE OF
ALL MY OLD FRIENDS.

The Jew retired, and I commenced my meal, when the door again slowly opened, and Mr Emmanuel
crawled up to me.

"Mishter Newland, I vash beg your pardon, but vill you not pay me de interest of de monish?"

I started up from my chair, with my rattan in my hand.  "Begone, you old thief," cried I; and
hardly were the words out of my mouth, before Mr Emmanuel travelled out of the room, and I
never saw him afterwards.  I was pleased with myself for having done this act of honesty and
for the first time for a long while I ate my dinner with some zest.  After I had finished,
I took a twenty pound note, and laid it in my desk, the remainder of the five hundred pounds
I put in my pocket, to try my last chance.  In an hour I quitted the hell penniless.  When
I returned home I had composed myself a little after the dreadful excitement which I had been
under.  I felt a calm, and a degree of negative happiness.  I knew my fate--there was no more
suspense.  I sat down to reflect upon what I should do.  I was to commence the world again--to
sink down at once into obscurity--into poverty--and I felt happy, I had severed the link between
myself and my former condition--I was again a beggar, but I was independent--and I resolved
so to be.  I spoke kindly to Timothy, went to bed, and having arranged in my own mind how I
should act, I fell sound asleep.

I never slept better, or awoke more refreshed.  The next morning I packed up my portmanteau,
taking with me only the most necessary articles; all the details of the toilet, further than
cleanliness was concerned, I abjured.  When Timothy came in, I told him that I was going down
to Lady de Clare's, which I intended to do.  Poor Timothy was overjoyed at the change in my
manner, little thinking that he was so soon to lose me--for, reader, I had made up my mind
that I would try my fortunes alone; and, painful as I felt would be the parting with so valued
a friend, I was determined that I would no longer have even his assistance or company.  I was
determined to forget all that had passed, and commence the world anew.  I sat down while Timothy
went out to take a place in the Richmond coach, and wrote to him the following letter:--

  "My dear Timothy,--Do not think that I undervalue your friendship, or
  shall ever forget your regard for me, when I tell you that we shall
  probably never meet again.  Should fortune favour me, I trust we
  shall--but of that there is little prospect.  I have lost almost
  everything: my money is all gone, my house is sold, and all is gambled
  away.  I leave you, with only my clothes in my portmanteau and twenty
  pounds.  For yourself, there is the furniture, which you must sell, as
  well as every other article left behind.  It is all yours, and I hope
  you will find means to establish yourself in some way.  God bless
  you--and believe me always and gratefully yours,--

  "Japhet Newland."

This letter I reserved to put in the post when I quitted Richmond.  My next letter was to Mr
Masterton.

  "Sir,--Your note I received, and I am afraid that unwittingly, you
  have been the occasion of my present condition.  That I did not
  deserve the language addressed to me, you may satisfy yourself by
  applying to Mr Harcourt.  Driven to desperation, I have lost all I
  had in the world, by adding gaming to my many follies.  I now am about
  to seek my fortune, and prosecute my search after my father.  You
  will, therefore, return my most sincere acknowledgments to Lord
  Windermear, for his kind offers and intentions, and assure him that my
  feelings towards him will always be those of gratitude and respect.
  For yourself accept my warmest thanks for the friendly advice and kind
  interest which you have shown in my welfare, and believe me, when I
  say, that my earnest prayers shall be offered up for your happiness.
  If you can, in any way, assist my poor friend, Timothy, who will, I
  have no doubt, fall upon you in his distress, you will confer an
  additional favour on.

  "Yours, ever gratefully,--

  "Japhet Newland."

I sealed this letter, and when Timothy returned, I told him that I wished him, after my departure,
to take it to Mr Masterton's, and not wait for an answer.  I then, as I had an hour to spare,
before the coach started, entered into a conversation with Timothy.  I pointed out to him the
unfortunate condition in which I found myself, and my determination to quit the metropolis.

Timothy agreed with me.  "I have seen you so unhappy of late--I may say, so miserable--that
I have neither eaten nor slept.  Indeed, Japhet, I have laid in bed and wept, for my happiness
depends upon yours.  Go where you will, I am ready to follow and to serve you, and as long
as I see you comfortable, I care for nothing else."

These words of Timothy almost shook my resolution, and I was near telling him all; but when
I recollected, I refrained.  "My dear Timothy," said I, "in this world we must expect to meet
with a checkered existence; we may laugh at one time, but we must cry at others.  I owe my
life to you, and I never shall forget you, wherever I may be."

"No," replied Timothy, "you are not likely to forget one who is hardly an hour out of your sight."

"Very true, Timothy; but circumstances may occur which may separate us."

"I cannot imagine such circumstances, nor do I believe, that bad as things may turn out, that
they will ever be so bad as that.  You have your money and your house; if you leave London,
you will be able to add to your income by letting your own apartments furnished, so we never
shall want; and we may be very happy running about the world, seeking what we wish to find."

My heart smote me when Timothy said this, for I felt, by his devotion and fidelity, he had
almost the same claim to the property I possessed as myself.  He had been my partner, playing
the inferior game, for the mutual benefit.  "But the time may come, Timothy, when we may find
ourselves without money, as we were when we first commenced our career, and shared three-pence
halfpenny each, by selling the old woman the embrocation."

"Well, sir, and let it come.  I should be sorry for you, but not for myself, for then Tim would
be of more importance, and more useful, than as valet with little or nothing to do."

I mentally exclaimed, "I have, I think I have, been a fool, a great fool, but the die is cast.
I will sow in sorrow, and may I reap a harvest in joy.  I feel," thought I (and I did feel),
"I feel a delightful conviction, that we shall meet again, and all this misery of parting will
be but a subject of future garrulity."

"Yes, Tim," said I in a loud Voice, "all is right."

"All's right, sir; I never thought anything was wrong, except your annoyance at people not
paying you the attention which they used to do, when they supposed you a man of fortune."

"Very true; and Tim, recollect that if Mr Masterton speaks to you about me, which he may after
I am gone to Richmond, you tell him that before I left, I paid that old scoundrel Emmanuel
every farthing that I had borrowed of him, and you know (and in fact so does Mr Masterton)
how it was borrowed."

"Well, sir, I will, if he does talk to me, but he seldom says much to me."

"But he may, perhaps, Tim; and I wish him to know that I have paid every debt I owe in the world."

"One would think that you were going to the East Indies, instead of to Richmond, by the way
you talk."

"No, Tim; I was offered a situation in the East Indies, and I refused it; but Mr Masterton
and I have not been on good terms lately, and I wish him to know that I am out of debt.  You
know, for I told you all that passed between Emmanuel and myself, how he accepted five hundred
pounds, and I paid him the thousand; and I wish Mr Masterton should know it too, and he will
then be better pleased with me."

"Never fear, sir," said Tim, "I can tell the whole story with flourishes."

"No, Tim, nothing but the truth; but it is time I should go.  Farewell, my dear fellow.  May
God bless you and preserve you."  And, overcome by my feelings, I dropped my face on Timothy's
shoulder, and wept.

"What is the matter?  What do you mean, Japhet?  Mr Newland--pray, sir, what is the matter?"

"Timothy--it is nothing," replied I, recovering myself, "but I have been ill; nervous lately,
as you well know, and even leaving the last and only friend I have, I may say for a few days,
annoys and overcomes me."

"Oh! sir--dear Japhet, do let us leave this house, and sell your furniture, and be off."

"I mean that it shall be so, Tim.  God bless you, and farewell."  I went down stairs, the hackney-coach
was at the door.  Timothy put in my portmanteau, and mounted the box.  I wept bitterly.  My
readers may despise me, but they ought not; let them be in my situation, and feel that they
have one sincere faithful friend, and then they will know the bitterness of parting.  I recovered
myself before I arrived at the coach, and shaking hands with Timothy, I lost sight of him;
for how long, the reader will find out in the sequel of my adventures.

I arrived at Lady de Clare's, and hardly need say that I was well received.  They expressed
their delight at my so soon coming again, and made a hundred inquiries--but I was unhappy and
melancholy, not at my prospects, for in my infatuation I rejoiced at my anticipated beggary--
but I wished to communicate with Fleta, for so I still call her.  Fleta had known my history,
for she had been present when I had related it to her mother, up to the time that I arrived
in London; further than that she knew little.  I was determined that before I quitted she should
know--all.  I dared not trust the last part to her when I was present, but I resolved that
I would do it in writing.

Lady de Clare made no difficulty whatever of leaving me with Fleta.  She was now a beautiful
creature, of between fifteen and sixteen, bursting into womanhood, and lovely as the bud of
the moss-rose; and she was precocious beyond her years in intellect.  I staid there three days,
and had frequent opportunities of conversing with her; I told her that I wished her to be acquainted
with my whole life, and interrogated her as to what she knew: I carefully filled up the chasms,
until I brought it down to the time at which I placed her in the arms of her mother.  "And
now, Fleta," said I, "you have much more to learn--you will learn that much at my departure.
I have dedicated hours every night in writing it out; and, as you will find, have analysed
my feelings, and have pointed out to you where I have been wrong.  I have done it for my amusement,
as it may be of service even to a female."

On the third day I took my leave, and requesting the pony chaise of Lady de Clare, to take
me over to --, that I might catch the first coach that went westward, for I did not care which.
I put into Fleta's hands the packet which I had written, containing all that had passed, and
I bid her farewell.

"Lady de Clare, may you be happy," said I.  "Fleta--Cecilia, I should say, may God bless and
preserve you, and sometimes think of your sincere friend, Japhet Newland."

"Really, Mr Newland," said Lady de Clare, "one would think we were never to see you again."

"I hope that will not be the case, Lady de Clare, for I know nobody to whom I am more devoted."

"Then, sir, recollect we are to see you very soon."

I pressed her ladyship's hand, and left the house.  Thus did I commence my second pilgrimage.

PART THREE, CHAPTER THREE.

MY NEW CAREER IS NOT VERY PROSPEROUS AT ITS COMMENCEMENT--I AM ROBBED, AND ACCUSED OF BEING
A ROBBER--I BIND UP WOUNDS, AND AM ACCUSED OF HAVING INFLICTED THEM--I GET INTO A HORSE-POND,
AND OUT OF IT INTO GAOL.

I had proceeded half a mile from the house, when I desired the servant to turn into a cross-road
so as to gain Brentford; and, so soon as I arrived, the distance being only four miles, I ordered
him to stop at a public-house, saying that I would wait till the coach should pass by.  I then
gave him half-a-crown, and ordered him to go home.  I went into the inn with my portmanteau,
and was shown into a small back parlour; there I remained about half an hour reflecting upon
the best plan that I could adopt.

Leaving the ale that I had called for untasted, I paid for it, and, with the portmanteau on
my shoulder, I walked away until I arrived at an old clothes' shop.  I told the Jew who kept
it, that I required some clothes, and also wanted to dispose of my own portmanteau and all
my effects.  I had a great rogue to deal with; but after much chaffering, for I now felt the
value of money, I purchased from him two pair of corduroy trowsers, two waistcoats, four common
shirts, four pairs of stockings, a smock frock, a pair of high-lows, and a common hat.  For
these I gave up all my portmanteau, with the exception of six silk hand kerchiefs, and received
fifty shillings, when I ought to have received, at least, ten pounds but I could not well help
myself, and I submitted to the extortion.  I dressed myself in my more humble garments, securing
my money in the pocket of my trowsers unobserved by the Jew, made up a bundle of the rest,
and procured a stick from the Jew to carry it on, however not without paying him three-pence
for it, he observing that the stick "wash not in de bargain."  Thus attired, I had the appearance
of a countryman well to do, and I set off through the long dirty main street of Brentford,
quite undecided and indifferent as to the direction I should take.  I walked about a mile,
when I thought that it was better to come to some decision previous to my going farther; and
perceiving a bench in front of a public-house, I went to it and sat down.  I looked around,
and it immediately came to my recollection that I was sitting on the very bench on which Timothy
and I had stopped to eat our meal of pork, at our first outset upon our travels.  Yes, it was
the very same! Here sat I, and there sat Timothy, two heedless boys, with the paper containing
the meat, the loaf of bread, and the pot of beer between us. Poor Timothy!  I conjured up his
unhappiness when he had received my note acquainting him with our future separation.  I remembered
his fidelity, his courage in defence, and his preservation of my life in Ireland, and a tear
or two coursed down my cheek.

I remained some time in a deep reverie, during which the various circumstances and adventures
of my life passed in a rapid panorama before me.  I felt that I had little to plead in my own
favour, much to condemn--that I had passed a life of fraud and deceit.  I also could not forget
that when I had returned to honesty, I had been scouted by the world.  "And here I am," thought
I, "once more with the world before me; and it is just that I should commence again, for I
started in a wrong path.  At least, now I can satisfactorily assert that I am deceiving nobody,
and can deservedly receive no contumely.  I am Japhet Newland, and not in disguise."  I felt
happy with this reflection, and made a determination, whatever my future lot might be, that,
at least, I would pursue the path of honesty.  I then began to reflect upon another point,
which was, whither I should bend my steps, and what I should do to gain my livelihood.

Alas! that was a subject of no little difficulty to me.  A person who has been brought up to
a profession naturally reverts to that profession--but to what had I been brought up?  As an
apothecary--true; but I well knew the difficulty of obtaining employment in what is termed
a liberal profession, without interest or recommendation; neither did I wish for close confinement,
as the very idea was irksome.  As a mountebank, a juggler, a quack doctor--I spurned the very
idea.  It was a system of fraud and deceit.  What then could I do?  I could not dig, to beg
I was ashamed.  I must trust to the chapter of accidents, and considering how helpless I was,
such trust was but a broken reed.  At all events, I had a sufficient sum of money, upwards
of twenty pounds, to exist upon with economy for some time.

I was interrupted by a voice calling out, "Hilloa! my lad, come and hold this horse a moment."
I looked up and perceived a person on horseback looking at me.  "Do you hear, or are you stupid?"
cried the man.  My first feeling was to knock him down for his impertinence, but my bundle
lying beside, reminded me of my situation and appearance, and I rose and walked towards the
horse.  The gentleman, for such he was in appearance, dismounted, and throwing the rein on
the horse's neck, told me to stand by him for half a minute.  He went into a respectable looking
house opposite the inn, and remained nearly half an hour, during which I was becoming very
impatient, and kept an anxious eye upon my bundle, which lay on the seat.  At last he came
out, and mounting his horse looked in my face with some degree of surprise.  "Why, what are
you?" said he, as he pulled out a sixpence, and tendered it to me.

I was again nearly forgetting myself, affronted at the idea of sixpence being offered to me;
but I recovered myself, saying, as I took it, "A poor labouring man, sir."

"What, with those hands?" said he, looking at them as I took the money; and then looking at
my face, he continued, "I think we have met before, my lad--I cannot be sure; you know best--I
am a Bow Street magistrate."

In a moment, I remembered that he was the very magistrate before whom I had twice made my appearance.
I coloured deeply, and made no reply.

"Well, my lad, I'm not on my bench now, and this sixpence you have earned honestly.  I trust
you will continue in the right path.  Be careful--I have sharp eyes."  So saying, he rode off.

I never felt more mortified.  It was evident that he considered me as one who was acting a
part for unworthy purposes; perhaps one of the swell mob or a flash pickpocket rusticating
until some hue and cry was over.  "Well, well," thought I, as I took up a lump of dirt and
rubbed over my then white hands, "it is my fate to be believed when I deceive, and to be mistrusted
when I am acting honestly;" and I returned to the bench for my bundle, which--was gone.  I
stared with astonishment.  "Is it possible?" thought I.  "How dishonest people are!  Well,
I will not carry another for the present.  They might as well have left me my stick."  So thinking,
and without any great degree of annoyance at the loss, I turned from the bench and walked away,
I knew not whither.  It was now getting dark, but I quite forgot that it was necessary to look
out for a lodging; the fact is, that I had been completely upset by the observations of the
magistrate, and the theft of my bundle; and, in a sort of brown study, from which I was occasionally
recalled for a moment by stumbling over various obstructions, I continued my walk on the pathway
until I was two or three miles away from Brentford.  I was within a mile of Hounslow, when
I was roused by the groans of some person, and it being now dark, I looked round, trying to
catch by the ear the direction in which to offer my assistance.  They proceeded from the other
side of a hedge, and I crawled through, where I found a man lying on the ground, covered with
blood about the head, and breathing heavily.  I untied his neckcloth, and, as well as I could,
examined his condition.  I bound his handkerchief round his head, and perceiving that the position
in which he was lying was very unfavourable, his head and boulders being much lower than his
body, I was dragging the body round so as to raise those parts, when I heard footsteps and
voices.  Shortly after, four people burst through the hedge and surrounded me.

"That is him, I'll swear to it," cried an immense stout man, seizing me; "that is the other
fellow who attacked me, and ran away.  He has come to get off his accomplice, and now we've
just nicked them both."

"You are very much mistaken," replied I, "and you have no need to hold me so tight.  I heard
the man groan, and I came to his assistance."

"That gammon won't do," replied one of them, who was a constable; "you'll come along with us,
and we may as well put on the darbies," continued he, producing a pair of handcuffs.

Indignant at the insult, I suddenly broke from him who held me, and darting at the constable,
knocked him down, and then took to my heels across the ploughed field.  The whole four pursued,
but I rather gained upon them, and was in hopes to make my escape.  I ran for a gap I perceived
in the hedge, and sprang over it, without minding the old adage, of "Look before you leap;"
for, when on the other side, I found myself in a deep and stagnant pit of water and mud.  I
sank over head, and with difficulty extricated myself from the mud at the bottom, and when
at the surface I was equally embarrassed with the weeds at the top, among which I floundered.
In the mean time my pursuers, warned by the loud splash, had paused when they came to the hedge,
and perceiving my situation, were at the brink of the pit watching for my coming out.  All
resistance was useless.  I was numbed with cold and exhausted by my struggles, and when I gained
the bank I surrendered at discretion.

PART THREE, CHAPTER FOUR.

WORSE AND WORSE--IF OUT OF GAOL, IT WILL BE TO GO OUT OF THE WORLD--I AM RESOLVED TO TAKE MY
SECRET WITH ME.

The handcuffs were now put on without resistance on my part, and I was led away to Hounslow
by the two constables, while the others returned to secure the wounded man.  On my arrival
I was thrust into the clink, or lockup house, as the magistrates would not meet that evening,
and there I was left to my reflections.  Previously, however, to this, I was searched, and
my money, amounting, as I before stated, to upwards of twenty pounds, taken from me by the
constables; and what I had quite forgotten, a diamond solitaire ring, which I had intended
to have left with my other bijouterie for Timothy, but in my hurry, when I left London, I had
allowed to remain upon my finger.  The gaol was a square building, with two unglazed windows
secured with thick iron bars, and the rain having beat in, it was more like a pound for cattle,
for it was not even paved, and the ground was three or four inches deep in mud. There was no
seat in it, and there I was the whole of the night walking up and down shivering in my wet
clothes, in a state of mind almost bordering upon insanity.  Reflect upon what was likely to
happen, I could not.  I only ran over the past.  I remembered what I had been, and felt cruelly
the situation I then was in.  Had I deserved it?  I thought not.  "Oh! father--father!" exclaimed
I, bitterly, "see to what your son is brought--handcuffed as a felon!  God have mercy on my
brain, for I feel that it is wandering.  Father, father--alas, I have none!--had you left me
at the asylum, without any clue, or hopes of a clue, to my hereafter being reclaimed, it would
have been a kindness; I should then have been happy and contented in some obscure situation;
but you raised hopes only to prostrate them--and imaginings which have led to my destruction.
Sacred is the duty of a parent, and heavy must be the account of those who desert their children,
and are required by Heaven to render up an account of the important trust.  Couldst thou, oh,
father, but now behold thy son!  God Almighty!--but I will not curse you, father!  No, no--"
and I burst into tears, as I leant against the damp walls of the prison.

The day at last broke, and the sun rose, and poured his beaming rays through the barred windows.
I looked at myself, and was shocked at my appearance; my smock-frock was covered with black
mud, my clothes were equally disfigured.  I had lost my hat when in the water, and I felt the
dry mud cracking on my cheeks.  I put my hands up to my head, and I pulled a quantity of duck-weed
out of my matted and tangled hair.  I thought of the appearance I should make when summoned
before the magistrates, and how much it would go against me.  "Good God!" thought I, "who,
of all the world of fashion--who, of all those who once caught my salutation so eagerly--who,
of all those worldly-minded girls, who smiled upon me but one short twelve months since, would
imagine, or believe, that Japhet Newland could ever have sunk so low--and how has he so fallen?
Alas! because he would be honest, and had strength of mind enough to adhere to his resolution.
Well, well, God's will be done; I care not for life; but still an ignominious death--to go
out of the world like a dog, and that too without finding out who is my father." And I put
my fettered hands up and pressed my burning brow, and remained in a sort of apathetic sullen
mood, until I was startled by the opening of the door, and the appearance of the constables.
They led me out among the crowd, through which, with difficulty, they could force their way;
and followed by the majority of the population of Hounslow, who made their complimentary remarks
upon the footpad, I was brought before the magistrates.  The large stout man was then called
up to give his evidence, and deposed as follows:--

"That he was walking to Hounslow from Brentford, whither he had been to purchase some clothes,
when he was accosted by two fellows in smock-frocks, one of whom carried a bundle in his left
hand.  They asked him what o'clock it was; and he took out his watch to tell them, when he
received a blow from the one with the bundle, (this one, sir, said he, pointing to me,) on
the back of his head; at the same time the other (the wounded man who was now in custody) snatched
his watch.  That at the time he had purchased his clothes at Brentford, he had also bought
a bag of shot, fourteen pounds' weight, which he had, for the convenience of carrying, tied
up with the clothes in the bundle; and perceiving that he was about to be robbed, he had swung
his bundle round his head, and with the weight of the shot, had knocked down the man who had
snatched at his watch.  He then turned to the other (me), who backed from him, and struck at
him with his stick.  (The stick was here produced; and when I cast my eye on it, I was horrified
to perceive that it was the very stick which I had bought of the Jew, for three-pence, to carry
my bundle on.)  He had closed in with me, and was wresting the stick out of my hand, when the
other man, who had recovered his legs, again attacked him with another stick.  In the scuffle
he had obtained my stick, and I had wrested from him his bundle, with which, as soon as he
had knocked down my partner, I ran off.  That he beat my partner until he was insensible, and
then found that I had left my own bundle, which in the affray I had thrown on one side.  He
then made the best of his way to Hounslow to give the information."  His return and finding
me with the other man is already known to the readers.

The next evidence who came forward was the Jew, from whom I had bought the clothes and sold
my own.  He narrated all that had occurred, and swore to the clothes in the bundle left by
the footpad, and to the stick which he had sold to me.  The constable then produced the money
found about my person and the diamond solitaire ring, stating my attempt to escape when I was
seized.  The magistrate then asked me whether I had anything to say in my defence, cautioning
me not to commit myself.

I replied, that I was innocent; that it was true that I had sold my own clothes, and had purchased
those of the Jew, as well as the stick: that I had been asked to hold the horse of a gentleman
when sitting on a bench opposite a public-house, and that someone had stolen my bundle and
my stick.  That I had walked on towards Hounslow, and, in assisting a fellow-creature, whom
I certainly had considered as having been attacked by others, I had merely yielded to the common
feelings of humanity--that I was seized when performing that duty, and should willingly have
accompanied them to the magistrate's, had not they attempted to put on handcuffs, at which
my feelings were roused, and I knocked the constable down, and made my attempt to escape.

"Certainly, a very ingenious defence," observed one of the magistrates; "pray where--" At this
moment the door opened, and in came the very gentleman, the magistrate at Bow Street, whose
horse I had held.  "Good morning, Mr Norman; you have just come in time to render us your assistance.
We have a very deep hand to deal with here, or else a very injured person, I cannot tell which.
Do us the favour to look over these informations and the defence of the prisoner, previous
to our asking him any more questions."

The Bow Street magistrate complied, and then turned to me, but I was so disguised with mud,
that he could not recognise me.

"You are the gentleman, sir, who asked me to hold your horse," said I. "I call you to witness,
that that part of my assertion is true."

"I do now recollect that you are the person," replied he, "and you may recollect the observation
I made, relative to your hands, when you stated that you were a poor countryman."

"I do, sir, perfectly," replied I.

"Perhaps then you will inform us by what means a diamond-ring and twenty pounds in money came
into your possession?"

"Honestly, sir," replied I.

"Will you state, as you are a poor countryman, with whom you worked last--what parish you belong
to--and whom you can bring forward in proof of good character?"

"I certainly shall not answer those questions," replied I: "if I chose I might so do, and satisfactorily."

"What is your name?"

"I cannot answer that question either, sir," replied I.

"I told you yesterday that we had met before; was it not at Bow Street?"

"I am surprised at your asking a question, sir, from the bench, to which, if I answered, the
reply might affect me considerably.  I am here in a false position, and cannot well help myself.
I have no friends that I choose to call, for I should blush that they should see me in such
a state, and under such imputations."

"Your relations, young man, would certainly not be backward.  Who is your father?"

"My father!" exclaimed I, raising up my hands and eyes.  "My father! Merciful God!--if he could
only see me here--see to what he has reduced his unhappy son," and I covered my face and sobbed
convulsively.

PART THREE, CHAPTER FIVE.

BY THE COMMITTING OF MAGISTERIAL MISTAKES I AM PERSONALLY AND PENALLY COMMITTED--I PREPARE
FOR MY TRIAL BY CALLING IN THE ASSISTANCE OF THE TAILOR AND THE PERFUME--I AM RESOLVED TO DIE
LIKE A GENTLEMAN.

"It is indeed a pity, a great pity," observed one of the magistrates, "such a fine young man,
and evidently, by his demeanour and language, well brought up; but I believe," said he, turning
to the others, "we have but one course; what say you, Mr Norman?"

"I am afraid that my opinion coincides with yours, and that the grand jury will not hesitate
to find a bill, as the case stands at present. Let us, however, ask the witness Armstrong one
question.  Do you positively swear to this young man being one of the persons who attacked you?"

"It was not very light at the time, sir, and both the men had their faces smutted; but it was
a person just his size, and dressed in the same way, as near as I can recollect."

"You cannot, therefore, swear to his identity?"

"No, sir; but to the best of my knowledge and belief, he is the man."

"Take that evidence down as important," said Mr Norman; "it will assist him at his trial."

The evidence was taken down, and then my commitment to the county gaol was made out.  I was
placed in a cart, between two constables, and driven off.  On my arrival I was put into a cell,
and my money returned to me, but the ring was detained, that it might be advertised.  At last,
I was freed from the manacles; and when the prison dress was brought to me to put on, in lieu
of my own clothes, I requested leave from the gaoler to wash myself, which was granted; and,
strange to say, so unaccustomed had I been to such a state of filth, that I felt a degree of
happiness, as I returned from the pump in the prison-yard, and I put on the prison dress almost
with pleasure; for degrading as it was, at all events, it was new and clean.  I then returned
to my cell, and was left to my meditations.

Now that my examination and committal, were over, I became much more composed, and was able
to reflect coolly.  I perceived the great danger of my situation--how strong the evidence was
against me--and how little chance I had of escape.  As for sending to Lord Windermear, Mr Masterton,
or those who formerly were acquainted with me, my pride forbade it--I would sooner have perished
on the scaffold.  Besides, their evidence as to my former situation in life, although it would
perhaps satisfactorily account for my possession of the money and the ring, and for my disposing
of my portmanteau--all strong presumptive evidence against me--would not destroy the evidence
brought forward as to the robbery, which appeared to be so very conclusive to the bench of
magistrates.  My only chance appeared to be in the footpad, who had not escaped, acknowledging
that I was not his accomplice; and I felt how much I was interested in his recovery, as well
as in his candour.  The assizes I knew were near at hand, and I anxiously awaited the return
of the gaoler, to make a few inquiries.  At night he looked through the small square cut out
of the top of the door of the cell, for it was his duty to go his rounds and ascertain if all
his prisoners were safe.  I then asked him if I might be allowed to make a few purchases, such
as pens, ink, and paper, etcetera.  As I was not committed to prison in punishment, but on
suspicion, this was not denied, although it would have been to those who were condemned to
imprisonment and hard labour for their offences; and he volunteered to procure them for me
the next morning.  I then wished him a good night, and threw myself on my mattress.  Worn out
with fatigue and distress of mind, I slept soundly, without dreaming, until daylight the next
morning.  As I awoke, and my scattered senses were returning, I had a confused idea that there
was something which weighed heavily on my mind, which sleep had banished from my memory.  "What
is it?" thought I; and as I opened my eyes, so did I remember that I, Japhet Newland, who but
two nights before was pressing the down of luxury in the same habitation as Lady de Clare and
her lovely child, was now on a mattress in the cell of a prison, under a charge which threatened
me with an ignominious death.  I rose, and sat on the bed, for I had not thrown off my clothes.
My first thoughts were directed to Timothy.  Should I write to him?  No, no! why should I make
him miserable?  If I was to suffer, it should be under an assumed name. But what name?  Here
I was interrupted by the gaoler, who opened the door, and desired me to roll up my mattress
and bed-clothes, that they might, as was the custom, be taken out of the cell during the day.

My first inquiry was, if the man who had been so much hurt was in the gaol.

"You mean your 'complice," replied the gaoler.  "Yes, he is here, and has recovered his senses.
The doctor says he will do very well."

"Has he made any confession?" inquired I.

The gaoler made no reply.

"I ask that question," continued I, "because if he acknowledges who was his accomplice, I shall
be set at liberty."

"Very likely," replied the man, sarcastically; "the fact is, there is no occasion for king's
evidence in this case, or you might get off by crossing the water; so you must trust to your
luck.  The grand jury meet to-day, and I will let you know whether a true bill is found against
you or not."

"What is the name of the other man?" inquired I.

"Well, you are a good 'un to put a face upon a matter, I will say.  You would almost persuade
me, with that innocent look of yours, that you know nothing about the business."

"Nor do I," replied I.

"You will be fortunate if you can prove as much, that's all."

"Still, you have not answered my question: what is the other man's name?"

"Well," replied the gaoler, laughing, "since you are determined I shall tell you, I will. 
It must be news to you, with a vengeance.  His name is Bill Ogle, alias Swamping Bill.  I suppose
you never heard that name before?"

"I certainly never did," replied I.

"Perhaps you do not know your own name?  Yet I can tell it you, for Bill Ogle has blown upon
you so far."

"Indeed," replied I; "and what name has he given to me?"

"Why, to do him justice, it wasn't until he saw a copy of the depositions before the magistrates,
and heard how you were nabbed in trying to help him off, that he did tell it; and then he said,
`Well, Phill Maddox always was a true 'un, and I'm mortal sorry that he's in for't, by looking
a'ter me.'  Now do you know your own name?"

"I certainly do not," replied I.

"Well, did you ever hear of one who went by the name of Phill Maddox?"

"I never did," replied I; "and I am glad that Ogle has disclosed so much."

"Well, I never before met with a man who didn't know his own name, or had the face to say so,
and expect to be believed; but never mind, you are right to be cautious, with the halter looking
you in the face."

"O God!  O God!" exclaimed I, throwing myself on the bedstead, and covering up my face, "give
me strength to bear even that, if so it must be." 

OUR COMMON HUMANITY.

Here is a letter found on one of the German dead, a man with“ a good
face, strong and kindly,” so wrote the Daily Mail correspondent.“
My dearest Heart,” runs the letter,“ when the little ones have said
their prayers and prayed for their dear father, and have gone to bed,
I sit and think of thee, my love.

I think of all the old days when we were betrothed, and I think of all our happy married life.
Oh! Ludwig, beloved of my soul, why should people fight each other? I cannot think that God would wish
it....” Here in this leafy place Quiet he lies; Cold, with his sightless
face Turned to the skies;’ Tis but another dead: All you can say is said.
Carry the body hence; Kings must have slaves; Kings Cast the earth
over him.

What was that white you touched, There by his side? Paper his with the
slain! That the grief died. But no! Death will not have it so.

These words of Austin Dobson were written of a French sergeant in an
earlier war, yet they serve equally well for the German soldier in
this.

Strange that we leave it to the dead to prove their brotherhood and
ours.

Philip Gibbs tells us how in a German dug- out he picked up some letters.“
They were all written to‘ dear brother Wilhelm,’ from sisters and brothers,
sending him their loving greetings, praying that his health might
be good, promising to send him gifts of food and yearning for his
home- coming.” They were anxious, for here had been no news for some
time.“ Every time the postman comes we hope for a little note from
you.” Can any generous heart think of that anxious waiting unmoved?

Shall we children of one Life wait till we have wholly darkened each
other’ s words from a General Officer commanding a brigade occur in
a letter published in the Times of November 19, 1914.

Yet these“ quite splendid” fighters are men of whom a learned professor
appointed by the Government has written that homes, and then call our
handiwork peace?

But by that time, by the judgment of God, our eyes will be opened. We
who are bound by the same grief for ever, When all our sons are dead
may talk together, Each asking pardon of the other one, For her dead
son.[ 52] It is we at home who seem to yield only to this dread proof.

With the fighters it ludicrous, because it has censored such matter
as Kipling’ s is often different, as we have seen, and though the
stories savour of repetition, the repetition is surely worth while.

I have aimed here at no literary production, but simply at a collection
of facts that may reach the heart.“ We sing,” said a soldier from Baden,“ to
the accompaniment of the piano— especially during the interval for dinner.
We have indeed entered into a tacit agreement with the French to stop all fire
between 12 and 1 o’ clock, so that they and we might not be disturbed when
we feed.”( Zeitung am Mittag, as quoted in the Daily Chronicle, November
10, 1914.)“ One of our teachers, a lieutenant in the R. F. A., who
has been out most of the time, had a few days’ leave some weeks ago. He
said to the school, assembled to do him honour,‘ Boys, do not believe
the stories you read about the Germans in the newspapers.

Whatever they may have done at the beginning of the war, the German
is a brave and noble soldier, and after the war we must be friends.’”(
From a private letter.) A soldier writes that a diary he kept was
blown to bits by would a shell.

He gave what remained of it to a wounded German who pleaded for it.
He had met many German Socialists in the fighting.“ It is a blessing
to meet such men and amid all the slaughter brought about by our
present system, it seems heaven upon earth.”( Labour Leader, June
24, 1915.) ARE WE ALWAYS CHIVALROUS?

It will only be making the amende honorable if we do
our best now to spread reports of good deeds of the enemy, for in
the early stages that of the war we deliberately deleted them from
messages, and we have certainly done a great deal to conceal them
ever since.

Writing to the Times in October, 1914, Mr. Herbert Corey, the American correspondent,
said:“ The Times leader quotes the Post as charging that I‘ flatly made the charge
that dispatches had been altered for the purpose of hiding the truth
and blackening the German character.’ I do not recollect this phrase. I
did charge that dispatches of German atrocities were permitted to
go through unaltered, and that sentences in other dispatches in which
credit was given the Germans for courtesy and kindness were deleted.

I abide by that statement.” There have been many angry references to
unfair German attempts to influence neutral opinion. A letter such
as Mr. Corey’ s makes me able to understand why some neutrals have
accused England of the very same unfairness. There is other testimony
to the same effect. Mr. Edward Price Bell, London Correspondent of
the Chicago Daily News, has, in a pamphlet published by Fisher Unwin,
indicted the British censorship in the following terms: I call the
censorship chaotic because of the chaos in its administration.

I call it political because it has changed or suppressed political
cables.

I call it discriminatory because there are flagrant instances of its
not holding the scales evenly between correspondents and newspapers.
I call it unchivalrous because it has been known to elide eulogies of enemy
decency and enemy valour. I call it destructive because its function
is to destroy; it has no constructive function whatever.

I call it in effect anti- British and pro- German because its tendency—
one means, of course, its unconscious tendency— often is to elevate the
German name for veracity and for courage above the British.

I call it“ Recessional” and Browning’ s poetry.

I call it incompetent because one can perceive no sort of collective
efficiency in its work. And because of the sum of these matter I give
it the final descriptive—“ incredible.”— Daily News, January 7, 1916.
There is no doubt that people often fear to tell of German good deeds.

An acquaintance of mine told me that his boy got decorated for bringing
in a badly wounded comrade from near the German trenches. A little
shamefacedly my informant went on:“ I don’ t mind telling you, but
I shouldn’ t like it to be known generally here, that I know the Germans
act well sometimes.

My boy wrote he would have had no chance, but he heard the Germans
give the order to cease fire.” My informant evidently feared the neighbours
would call him pro- German if he told this to them, but he thought
he might venture to tell a pacifist.[ 53] One notices this fear sometimes
in rather amusing ways.

In a railway compartment with me were a loud- mouthed patriotic woman“
war- worker” and a mere soldier back from the front.

I’ m afraid I got a little at loggerheads with the war- worker, who
adopted in argument a kind. of furious grin which revealed a formidable
row of teeth that in my mind- picture of her have become symbolically
almost gigantic.

I turned for relief to the mere soldier, and while the train was moving
we had a pleasant dip into soldier philosophy.“ I’ ve come to the
conclusion that there’ s good and bad everywhere,” he said.“ I’ ve
known bad Germans, and I’ ve known Germans to look after our wounded
as well as a British Tommy could look after his chum.” There was more
to this effect, but whenever the train stopped and our voices became
audible to others, we were silent.

The fear of that row of teeth was, I think in both
our hearts, and I could see the mere soldier looking timid before
them.

Fair play to the enemy’ s rise to eminence Over men’ s graves; So
this man’ s eyes are dim. character is a concession not Agreed quite
so easy to the average Englishman as he supposes.“ The Anglo- Saxon
race has never been remarkable for magnanimity towards a fallen foe.”
Just now, when we are inclined to be almost afraid of the excess of
chivalry which possesses us, there may be useful corrective in these
words of Lieutenant- General Sir William Butler, K. C. B. There has
been much searching of old history books of late to find out what
was said in the days of Tacitus against the Germans.[ 54]( What Tacitus
said in their favour is not considered.) Perhaps on the other side
there are investigators searching their history books for ancient
opinions of the English.“ Strike well these English,” said Duke William
to his Normans,“ show no weakness towards these English, for they
will have no pity for you.

Neither the coward for running well, nor the bold man for fighting well
will be better liked by the English, nor will any be more spared on
either account.” Butler approved this verdict. We shall not readily
agree with him.

Yet he did not speak without cause: he had known an English general kick the dead
body of an African King, who“ was a soldier every inch of him,” and
he had known the colonists spit upon an African chief brought bound and helpless
through Natal.(“ Far Out,” p. 131.) I believe myself there is a
great and ready generosity in the hearts of the English people, but
he must surely be a man invariably on the“ correct” side who has not
more than once come across the official Englishman who could be a
bully to those in his power.

SOME BRITISH OPINIONS.“ I am disgusted by the accounts I see in the papers
of the inferiority of Germans as soldiers. Don’ t believe one word
of it. They are quite splendid in every way. Their courage, efficiency,
organisation, equipment and leading are all of the very best, and never surpassed by any
troops ever raised.

They come on in masses against our trenches and machine guns, and
come time after time, and they are never quiescent, but always on
the offensive.

I am full of admiration for them, and so are all who know anything about
them.

It is a pity that such fine soldiers should have behaved so badly
in Belgium and here; they have behaved badly, there is no doubt about
it, but nothing like what is said of them— any way in parts I have been through.”
These they are“ rotten to the core.” There is some discrepancy here.“
They are great workers, these Germans,” wrote Philip Gibbs( Daily Chronicle,
July 5, 1916),“ and wonderful soldiers.”“ An officer of the Sydney
gave a quite enthusiastic account of the officers of the Emden.‘ Vitthoef,
the torpedo lieutenant, was a thoroughly nice fellow.

Lieutenant
Schal was also a good fellow and half English.

It quite shook them when they found that the captain had asked that there be no cheering
on entering Colombo, but we certainly did not want cheering with rows of badly wounded
men( almost all German) laid out in cots on the quarter deck. Captain von
Müller is a very fine fellow.... The day he was leaving the ship at Colombo,
he came up to me on the quarter- deck and thanked me in connection
with the rescue of the wounded, shook hands and saluted, which was
very nice and polite of him.... Prince Hohenzollern was a decent enough
fellow.

In fact, we seemed to agree that it was our job to knock one another out,
but there was no malice in it.’ This is the ideal fighting,‘ with no malice
in it.’ has been achieved by many English and Germans, and that gives hope
for the future. Let us make the most, not the least, of what points towards
a better understanding.... At the beginning of November‘ Eye- Witness’
records how English prisoners had been sheltered by the Germans in
cellars to protect them from the bombardment of their own side.

An Anglo- Indian tells of a wounded havildar who was noticed by a German officer.‘
The German officer spoke to him in Hindustani, asking him the number
of his regiment, and where he came from.

He bound up his wounds, gave him a drink, and brought him a bundle of
straw to support his head. This will be remembered to the credit side
of our German account.’“ A wounded officer addressed some students at
one of our universities. He protested humorously that he was not a‘ pro-
German,’ and then spoke up for a fair view of the enemy. When he was being carried
into hospital, he noticed an anti- aircraft gun just outside the hospital.
This struck him as, to say the least, unwise. He expected the hospital
to be shelled, and this occurred. He did not blame the Germans. On another
occasion a farm near the firing line was used for first aid. It was
not obviously a hospital and was fired on.

The Commanding Officer sent a note to Von Kluck to explain matters,
and the farm was never after exposed to fire.[ 55] He had seen a
church damaged by German shell fire, but this was one which he had
himself seen used by the French for observation purposes.[ 56] The
same officer uttered a warning against believing all that was in the‘
Tommies’ letters.

At one time when he was censoring letters, one passed through his
hands from a Tommy only just arrived in France, and never in the firing
line. He described an immense battle in which the English did wonders
and he himself had marvellous duties to perform.

As far as the military situation was concerned the letter was quite harmless,
so it was allowed to go through. It was something like the intelligence
to the publication of which the Press Bureau‘ does not object.’”[ 57][
58] In her book,“ My War Experiences on Two Continents,” Miss Macnaughten
writes of the Germans:“ Individually, I always like them, and it is
useless to say I don’ t. They are all polite and grateful, and I thought
to- day, when the prisoners were surrounded by a gaping crowd, that
they bore themselves very well.”( p. 127).

Again,“ I found one young German with both hands smashed. He was not ill enough
to have a bed, of course, but sat with his head fallen forward trying to sleep
on a chair. I fed him with porridge and milk out of a little bowl, and when
he had finished half of it he said,‘ I won’ t have any more.

I am afraid there will be none for the others.’”( p. 37.) Unfortunately,
Miss Macnaughten too readily accepted war stories.

She writes of“ country houses where he heard German prisoners here lived
in luxury,“ and they say girls are allowed to come and play lawn tennis
with them.” The humour of this will be apparent to any who have visited internment
camps. Lawn tennis was, however, possible at some camps, both here and
in Germany— there were seven courts at Ruhleben. Some of the atrocity
stories many of us will recognise as not so reliable as Miss Macnaughten
supposed. It is her personal experiences which are important, and, like
the Scotchman[ 59]( whom she quotes) she has, not hatred, but respect,
for the Germans whom she herself meets. THE EASE OF ACCUSATION. Again
and again, everywhere, we find readiness to accept stories against the
enemy on very slender evidence. At the time of the loss of our three
cruisers I saw in one of the better newspapers a large heading,“ German Treachery.
Fighting under the Dutch Flag.” I looked down the columns for evidence.

No mention of such a circumstance in the official report, none in
the letter from the chief correspondent; but at last I found that some
one at Harwich had“ heard of” such an incident.

We must remember that only cool and clear intellects are likely at
such a time to take an accurate account of facts.

Between others mutual recrimination may readily arise. An officer
on H. M. A. S. Sydney wrote after the attack on the Emden:“ It was
very interesting talking to some of the German officers afterwards.

On the first day they were on board one said to me,‘ hand had clutched Tight
ere he died? Message or wish, maybe? Smooth out its folds and see.*** Ah! That
beside the dead Slumbered the pain! Ah! That the hearts that bled Slept
You fire on the white flag.’ I at once took the matter up, and the
torpedo- lieutenant and an engineer( of the Emden) both said emphatically,‘
No, that is not so; you did not fire on the white flag.’ But we did not
leave it at that. One of us went to the captain, and he got from Captain
von Müller an assurance that we had done nothing of the kind, and that
he intended to assemble his officers and tell them so.” Note how
readily on the other side, amongst those less responsible or less
cool- headed, a tale may grow up against us.

Let us observe in considering tales against them the same caution that
we should wish them to exercise in considering tales against us.[
60] TROOPS IN OCCUPATION. Witnesses from Brussels and from Ghent have spoken
well of the personal behaviour of both soldiers and officers.

A neutral correspondent writes in the Times of January 28, 1915:“ On
the whole it cannot be said that the behaviour of the German officers
and soldiers towards the population of Ghent is bad. When the German
troops entered the city, strict injunctions were given them to refrain
from pillaging, and to pay for everything they bought in the shops,
very much to the disgust of many....” Mr. Gabriel Mourey has written
an account of his custody of the Palais de Compiègne during the invasion.

The Times review of this book is so interesting that I propose to give some extracts from it: First the palace
served as the general headquarters of the British Army during the
last stage of the strategic retreat to the Marne; and in the closing
days of August, M. Mourey looked out of his window to see Generals
French and Joffre walking up and down the terrace in consultation,
while in the park English soldiers were shaving themselves calmly
before little pieces of broken mirror.

In a night they had left Compiègne, blowing up the Louis XV. bridge(“
utterly improved,” and therefore no great loss). On the next day came
the Uhlans, by no means so terrible as they had been painted....
Von Kluck was to make his headquarters there for a day, and the first
announcement of the doubtful honour was brought by an engineer lieutenant,
who came to make a wireless installation on the palace roof.

He was very quick, but he found time to inform
the conservator that his name was Maurin, that it was a French name.

He repeated it many times,“ C’ est un nom français,” and he was
plainly proud of it.

Then came Von Kluck himself, asking in polite and excellent French that
he might be shown over the palace.

Of him M. Mourey draws a by no means unattractive picture, urbane
yet reserved, with real admiration for the treasures of the Palace,
discreetly murmuring“ Je sais” at the close of every explanation,
not offensively, but as though some long forgotten memory had returned
to him, making his frequent“ Kolossal” sound in his conductor’ s ears
as gently as the continual“ Very nice” of the British Officer, and,
his visit over, promising that respect should be paid to the monument
of Imperial France.

But Von Kluck could not stay.

He was followed by Von Marwitz, no less polite, no less sympathetic to M.
Mourey’ s natural fears, and generous enough to write and sign a
proclamation forbidding his troops to lay their hand upon the palace.

He, too, went his way.

Von Kluck’ s Quartermaster- General seized the opportunity of making
a private levy of 5,000 f. upon the town before he sped like Gehazi after
his master’ s chariot. Then ensued the brief reign of lesser men, stupid,
brutal, blustering, bullying, insulting, because they feared a civilisation
which they could not understand. I think we know such, and many privates
such men, elsewhere than in the German army.

Germany may have cultivated them in greater numbers— that is highly
probable— but they are rife everywhere, and under favourable circumstances
they thrive exceedingly.

Their insolent arrogance culminated in a certain aide- de- camp, who
arrived post- haste to say that the Palace must be instantly made
ready to receive an Excellence par excellence.

A man of imagination this aide- de- camp, for when at his command M.
Mourey showed him over the palace and pointed out the gaps in the
collections made by the soldiers’ pilfery, he said with an all- explanatory
air,“ But why didn’ t you get souvenirs ready for the officers?” The
Excellence whom this right Brandenburger heralded was no less than
the Kaiser himself, and M. Mourey is convinced that it is to the Imperial
intention that the safety of Compiègne is owing.

It may be: but we prefer to think that honourable foes such as Von
Kluck and Von Marwitz had their share in the unusual consummation.[
61]“ The Irish Nuns at Ypres” gives an account of their experiences
by a member of the Community.



In short, Mr Cophagus fell in love, and like all elderly gentlemen who have so long bottled
up their affections, he became most desperately enamoured; and if he loved Miss Judith Temple
when he witnessed her patience and resignation under suffering, how much more did he love her
when he found that she was playful, merry, and cheerful, without being boisterous, when restored
to her health.  Mr Cophagus's attentions could not be misunderstood.  He told her uncle that
he had thought seriously of wedding cake--white favours--marriage--family--and so on; and to
the young lady he had put his cane up to his nose and prescribed, "A dose of matrimony--to
be taken immediately."  To Mr Cophagus there was no objection raised by the lady, who was not
in her teens, or by the uncle, who had always respected him as a worthy man, and a good Christian;
but to marry one who was not of her persuasion, was not to be thought of.  Her friends would
not consent to it.  Mr Cophagus was therefore dismissed, with a full assurance that the only
objection which offered was that he was not of their society.

Mr Cophagus walked home discomforted.  He sat down on his easy chair, and found it excessively
uneasy--he sat down to his solitary meal, and found that his own company was unbearable--he
went to bed, but found that it was impossible to go to sleep.  The next morning, therefore,
Mr Cophagus returned to Mr Temple, and stated his wish to be made acquainted with the difference
between the tenets of the Quaker persuasion and those of the Established Church.  Mr Temple
gave him an outline, which appeared to Mr Cophagus to be very satisfactory, and then referred
him to his niece for fuller particulars.  When a man enters into an argument with a full desire
to be convinced, and with his future happiness perhaps depending upon that conviction; and
when, further, those arguments are brought forward by one of the prettiest voices, and backed
by the sweetest of smiles, it is not to be wondered at his soon becoming a proselyte.  Thus
it was with Mr Cophagus, who in a week discovered that the peace, humility, and good-will,
upon which the Quaker tenets are founded, were much more congenial to the true spirit of the
Christian revelation than the Athanasian Creed, to be sung or said in our Established Churches;
and with this conviction, Mr Cophagus requested admission into the fraternity; and shortly
after his admission, it was thought advisable by the Friends that his faith should be confirmed
and strengthened by his espousal of Miss Judith Temple, with whom, at her request--and he could
refuse her nothing--he had repaired to the town of Reading, in which her relations all resided;
and Pheneas Cophagus, of the Society of Friends, declared himself to be as happy as a man could
be.  "Good people, Japhet--um--honest people, Japhet--don't fight--little stiff--spirit moves--and
so on," said Mr Cophagus, as he concluded his narrative, and then shaking me by the hand, retired
to shave and dress.

PART THREE, CHAPTER EIGHT.

I FALL IN LOVE WITH RELIGION WHEN PREACHED BY ONE WHO HAS THE FORM OF AN ANGEL.

In half an hour afterwards Ephraim came in with a draught, which I was desired to take by Mr
Cophagus, and then to try and sleep.  This was good advice, and I followed it.  I awoke after
a long, refreshing sleep, and found Mr and Mrs Cophagus sitting in the room, she at work and
he occupied with a book.  When I opened my eyes, and perceived a female, I looked to ascertain
if it was the young person whom Ephraim had stated to be Susannah Temple; not that I recollected
her features exactly, but I did the contour of her person.  Mrs Cophagus was taller, and I
had a fair scrutiny of her before they perceived that I was awake.  Her face was very pleasing,
features small and regular.  She appeared to be about thirty years of age, and was studiously
neat and clean in her person. Her Quaker's dress was not without some little departure from
the strict fashion and form, sufficient to assist, without deviating from, its simplicity.
If I might use the term, it was a little coquettish, and evinced that the wearer, had she not
belonged to that sect, would have shown great taste in the adornment of her person.

Mr Cophagus, although he did not think so himself, as I afterwards found out, was certainly
much improved by his change of costume.  His spindle shanks, which, as I have before observed,
were peculiarly at variance with his little orbicular, orange-shaped stomach, were now concealed
in loose trowsers, which took off from the protuberance of the latter, and added dignity to
the former, blending the two together, so that his roundness became fine by degrees, and beautifully
less as it descended.  Altogether, the Quaker dress added very much to the substantiability
of his appearance, and was a manifest improvement, especially when he wore his broad-brimmed
hat.  Having satisfied my curiosity I moved the curtain so as to attract their attention, and
Cophagus came to my bedside, and felt my pulse.  "Good--very good--all right--little broth--throw
in bark--on his legs--well as ever--and so on."

"I am indeed much better this afternoon," replied I; "indeed, so well, that I feel as if I
could get up."

"Pooh:--tumble down--never do--lie a bed--get strong--wife--Mrs Cophagus--Japhet--old friend."

Mrs Cophagus had risen from her chair, and come towards the bed, when her husband introduced
her in his own fashion.  "I am afraid that I have been a great trouble, madam," said I.

"Japhet Newland, we have done but our duty, even if thou wert not, as it appears that thou
art, a friend of my husband.  Consider me, therefore, as thy sister, and I will regard thee
as a brother; and if thou wouldst wish it, thou shalt sojourn with us, for so hath my husband
communicated his wishes unto me."

I thanked her for her kind expressions, and took the fair hand which was offered in such amity.
Cophagus then asked me if I was well enough to inform him of what had passed since our last
meeting, and telling me that his wife knew my whole history, and that I might speak before
her, he took his seat by the side of the bed, his wife also drew her chair nearer, and I commenced
the narrative of what had passed since we parted in Ireland.  When I had finished, Mr Cophagus
commenced as usual, "Um-- very odd--lose money--bad--grow honest--good--run away from friends--
bad--not hung--good--brain fever--bad--come here--good--stay with us-- quite comfortable--and
so on."

"Thou hast suffered much, friend Japhet," said Mrs Cophagus, wiping her eyes; "and I would
almost venture to say, hast been chastised too severely, were it not that those whom He loveth,
He chastiseth.  Still thou art saved, and now out of danger; peradventure thou wilt now quit
a vain world, and be content to live with us; nay, as thou hast the example of thy former master,
it may perhaps please the Lord to advise thee to become one of us, and to join us as a Friend.
My husband was persuaded to the right path by me," continued she, looking fondly at him; "who
knoweth but some of our maidens may also persuade thee to eschew a vain, unrighteous world,
and follow thy Redeemer in humility?"

"Very true--um--very true," observed Cophagus, putting more Quakerism than usual in his style,
and drawing out his ums to treble their usual length; "Happy life--Japhet--um--all at peace--quiet
amusements--think about it--um--no hurry--never swear--by-and-by, hell!--spirit may move--
um--not now--talk about it--get well--set up shop--and so on."

I was tired with talking so much, and having taken some nourishment, again fell asleep.  When
I awoke in the evening, friend Cophagus and his wife were not in the room; but Susannah Temple,
whom I had first seen, and of whom I had made inquiry of Ephraim, who was Cophagus's servant.
She was sitting close to the light and reading, and long did I continue to gaze upon her, fearful
of interrupting her.  She was the most beautiful specimen of clear and transparent white that
I ever had beheld--her complexion was unrivalled--her eyes were large, but I could not ascertain
their colour, as they were cast down upon her book, and hid by her long fringed eyelashes--her
eyebrows arched and regular, as if drawn by a pair of compasses, and their soft hair in beautiful
contrast with her snowy forehead--her hair was auburn, but mostly concealed within her cap--her
nose was very straight but not very large, and her mouth was perfection.  She appeared to be
between seventeen and eighteen years old, as far as I could ascertain: her figure was symmetrically
perfect.  Dressed as she was in the modest, simple garb worn by the females of the Society
of Friends, she gave an idea of neatness, cleanliness, and propriety upon which I could have
gazed for ever.  She was, indeed, most beautiful.  I felt her beauty, her purity, and I could
have worshipped her as an angel.  While I still had my eyes fixed upon her exquisite features,
she closed her book, and rising from her chair, came to the side of the bed.  That she might
not be startled at the idea of my having been watching her, I closed my eyes, and pretended
to slumber.  She resumed her seat, and then I changed my position and spoke, "Is anyone there?"

"Yes, friend Newland, what is it that thou requirest?" said she, advancing.  "Wouldst thou
see Cophagus or Ephraim?  I will summon them."

"O no," replied I; "why should I disturb them from their amusements or employments?  I have
slept a long while, and I would like to read a little, I think, if my eyes are not too weak."

"Thou must not read, but I may read unto thee," replied Susannah.  "Tell me, what is it that
thou wouldest have me read?  I have no vain books; but surely thou thinkest not of them, after
thy escape from death."

"I care not what is read, provided that you read to me," replied I.

"Nay, but thou shouldest care; and be not wroth if I say to thee, that there is but one book
to which thou shouldest now listen.  Thou hast been saved from deadly peril--thou hast been
rescued from the jaws of death.  Art thou not thankful?  And to whom is gratitude most due,
but to thy heavenly Father, who hath been pleased to spare thee?"

"You are right," replied I; "then I pray you to read to me from the Bible."

Susannah made no reply, but resumed her seat; and selecting those chapters most appropriate
to my situation, read them in a beautiful and impressive tone.

PART THREE, CHAPTER NINE.

PRIDE AND LOVE AT ISSUE--THE LATTER IS VICTORIOUS--I TURN QUAKER, AND RECOMMENCE MY OLD PROFESSION.

If the reader will recall my narrative to his recollection, he must observe, that religion
had had hitherto but little of my thoughts.  I had lived the life of most who live in this
world; perhaps not quite so correct in morals as many people, for my code of morality was suited
to circumstances; as to religion, I had none.  I had lived in the world, and for the world.
I had certainly been well instructed in the tenets of our faith when I was at the Asylum, but
there, as in most other schools, it is made irksome, as a task, and is looked upon with almost
a feeling of aversion.  No proper religious sentiments are, or can be, inculcated to a large
number of scholars; it is the parent alone who can instil, by precept and example, that true
sense of religion, which may serve as a guide through life.  I had not read the Bible from
the time that I quitted the Foundling Hospital.  It was new to me, and when I now heard read,
by that beautiful creature, passages equally beautiful, and so applicable to my situation,
weakened by disease, and humbled in adversity, I was moved, even unto tears.

Susannah closed the book and came to the bedside.  I thanked her: she perceived my emotion,
and when I held out my hand she did not refuse hers.  I kissed it, and it was immediately withdrawn,
and she left the room.  Shortly afterwards Ephraim made his appearance.  Cophagus and his wife
also came that evening, but I saw no more of Susannah Temple until the following day, when
I again requested her to read to me.

I will not detain the reader by an account of my recovery.  In three weeks I was able to leave
the room; during that time, I had become very intimate with the whole family, and was treated
as if I belonged to it. During my illness I had certainly shown more sense of religion than
I had ever done before, but I do not mean to say that I was really religious.  I liked to hear
the Bible read by Susannah, and I liked to talk with her upon religious subjects; but had Susannah
been an ugly old woman, I very much doubt if I should have been so attentive.  It was her extreme
beauty--her modesty and fervour, which so became her, which enchanted me.  I felt the beauty
of religion, but it was through an earthly object; it was beautiful in her.  She looked an
angel, and I listened to her precepts as delivered by one.  Still, whatever may be the cause
by which a person's attention can be directed to so important a subject, so generally neglected,
whether by fear of death, or by love towards an earthly object, the advantages are the same;
and although very far from what I ought to have been, I certainly was, through my admiration
of her, a better man.  As soon as I was on the sofa wrapped up in one of the dressing-gowns
of Mr Cophagus, he told me that the clothes in which I had been picked up were all in tatters,
and asked me whether I would like to have others made according to the usual fashion, or like
those with whom I should, he trusted, in future reside.  I had already debated this matter
in my mind.  Return to the world I had resolved not to do; to follow up the object of my search
appeared to me only to involve me in difficulties; and what were the intentions of Cophagus
with regard to me, I knew not.  I was hesitating, for I knew not what answer to give, when
I perceived the pensive, deep-blue eye of Susannah fixed upon me, watching attentively, if
not eagerly, for my response.

It decided the point.  "If," replied I, "you do not think that I should disgrace you, I should
wish to wear the dress of the Society of Friends, although not yet one of your body."

"But soon to be, I trust," replied Mrs Cophagus.

"Alas!" replied I, "I am an outcast;" and I looked at Susannah Temple.

"Not so, Japhet Newland," replied she, mildly: "I am pleased that thou hast of thy own accord
rejected vain attire.  I trust that thou wilt not find that thou art without friends."

"While I am with you," replied I, addressing myself to them all, "I consider it my duty to
conform to your manners in every way, but by-and-by, when I resume my search--"

"And why shouldst thou resume a search which must prove unavailing, and but leads thee into
error and misfortune?  I am but young, Japhet Newland, and not perhaps so able to advise, yet
doth it appear to me, that the search can only be availing when made by those who left thee.
When they wish for you they will seek thee, but thy seeking them is vain and fruitless."

"But," replied I, "recollect that inquiries have already been made at the Foundling, and those
who inquired have been sent away disappointed-- they will inquire no more."

"And is a parent's love so trifling, that one disappointment will drive him from seeking of
his child?  No, no, Japhet; if thou art yearned for, thou wilt be found, and fresh inquiries
will be made; but thy search is unavailing, and already hast thou lost much time."

"True, Susannah, thy advise is good," replied Mrs Cophagus; "in following a shadow Japhet hath
much neglected the substance; it is time that thou shouldst settle thyself, and earn thy livelihood."

"And do thy duty in that path of life to which it hath pleased God to call thee," continued
Susannah, who with Mrs Cophagus walked out of the room.

Cophagus then took up the conversation, and pointing out the uselessness of my roving about,
and the propriety of my settling in life, proposed that I should take an apothecary's shop,
for which he would furnish the means, and that he could insure me the custom, of the whole
Society of Friends in Reading, which was very large, as there was not one of the sect in that
line of business.  "Become one of us, Japhet--good business--marry by-and-by--happy life--little
children--and so on."  I thought of Susannah, and was silent.  Cophagus then said, I had better
reflect upon his offer, and make up my determination.  If that did not suit me, he would still
give me all the assistance in his power.

I did reflect long before I could make up my mind.  I was still worldly inclined; still my
fancy would revel in the idea of finding out my father in high life, and, as once more appearing
as a star of fashion, of returning with interest the contumely I had lately received, and re-assuming
as a right that position in society which I had held under false colours.

I could not bear the idea of sinking at once into a tradesman, and probably ending my days
in obscurity.  Pride was still my ruling passion.  Such were my first impulses, and then I
looked upon the other side of the picture.  I was without the means necessary to support myself;
I could not return to high life without I discovered my parents in the first place, and in
the second, found them to be such as my warm imagination had depicted.  I had no chance of
finding them.  I had already been long seeking in vain.  I had been twice taken up to Bow Street--nearly
lost my life in Ireland--had been sentenced to death--had been insane, and recovered by a miracle,
and all in prosecuting this useless search.  All this had much contributed to cure me of the
monomania.  I agreed with Susannah that the search must be made by the other parties, and not
by me.  I recalled the treatment I had received from the world--the contempt with which I had
been treated--the heartlessness of high life, and the little chance of my ever again being
admitted into fashionable society.

I placed all this in juxtaposition with the kindness of those with whom I now resided--what
they had done already for me, and what they now offered, which was to make me independent by
my own exertions.  I weighed all in my mind; was still undecided, for my pride still carried
its weight; when I thought of the pure, beautiful Susannah Temple, and-- my decision was made.
I would not lose the substance by running after shadows.

That evening, with many thanks, I accepted the kind offers of Mr Cophagus, and expressed my
determination of entering into the Society of Friends.

"Thou hast chosen wisely," said Mrs Cophagus, extending her hand to me, "and it is with pleasure
that we shall receive thee."

"I welcome thee, Japhet Newland," said Susannah, also offering her hand, "and I trust that
thou wilt find more happiness among those with whom thou art about to sojourn, than in the
world of vanity and deceit, in which thou hast hitherto played thy part.  No longer seek an
earthly father, who hath deserted thee, but a heavenly Father, who will not desert thee in
thy afflictions."

"You shall direct me into the right path, Susannah," replied I.

"I am too young to be a guide, Japhet," replied she, smiling; "but not too young, I hope, to
be a friend."

The next day my clothes came home, and I put them on.  I looked at myself in the glass, and
was anything but pleased; but as my head was shaved, it was of little consequence what I wore;
so I consoled myself. Mr Cophagus sent for a barber and ordered me a wig, which was to be ready
in a few days; when it was ready I put it on, and altogether did not dislike my appearance.
I flattered myself that if I was a Quaker, at all events I was a very good looking and a very
smart one; and when, a day or two afterwards a reunion of friends took place at Mr Cophagus's
house to introduce me to them, I perceived, with much satisfaction, that there was no young
man who could compete with me. After this, I was much more reconciled to my transformation.

PART THREE, CHAPTER TEN.

I PROSPER IN EVERY WAY, AND BECOME RECONCILED TO MY SITUATION.

Mr Cophagus was not idle.  In a few weeks he had rented a shop for me, and furnished it much
better than his own in Smithfield; the upper part of the house was let off, as I was to reside
with the family.  When it was ready, I went over it with him, and was satisfied; all I wished
for was Timothy as an assistant, but that wish was unavailing, as I knew not where to find him.

That evening I observed to Mr Cophagus, that I did not much like putting my name over the shop.
The fact was, that my pride forbade it, and I could not bear the idea, that Japhet Newland,
at whose knock every aristocratic door had flown open, should appear in gold letters above
a shop-window.  "There are many reasons against it," observed I.  "One is, that it is not my
real name--I should like to take the name of Cophagus; another is, that the name, being so
well known, may attract those who formerly knew me, and I should not wish that they should
come in and mock me; another is--"

"Japhet Newland," interrupted Susannah, with more severity than I ever had seen in her sweet
countenance, "do not trouble thyself with giving thy reasons, seeing thou hast given every
reason but the right one, which is, that thy pride revolts at it."

"I was about to observe," replied I, "that it was a name that sounded of mammon, and not fitting
for one of our persuasion.  But, Susannah, you have accused me of pride, and I will now raise
no further objections. Japhet Newland it shall be, and let us speak no more upon the subject."

"If I have wronged thee, Japhet, much do I crave thy forgiveness," replied Susannah.  "But
it is God alone who knoweth the secrets of our hearts.  I was presumptuous; and you must pardon
me."

"Susannah, it is I who ought to plead for pardon; you know me better than I know myself.  It
was pride, and nothing but pride--but you have cured me."

"Truly have I hopes of thee now, Japhet," replied Susannah, smiling. "Those who confess their
faults will soon amend them; yet I do think there is some reason in thy observation, for who
knoweth, but meeting with thy former associates, thou mayst not be tempted into falling away?
Thou mayst spell thy name as thou listest; and, peradventure, it would be better to disguise it."

So agreed Mr and Mrs Cophagus, and I therefore had it written Gnow-land; and having engaged
a person of the society, strongly recommended to me, as an assistant, I took possession of
my shop, and was very soon busy in making up prescriptions, and dispensing my medicines in
all quarters of the good town of Reading.

And I was happy.  I had enjoyment during the day; my profession was, at all events, liberal.
I was dressed and lived as a gentleman, or rather I should say respectably.  I was earning
my own livelihood.  I was a useful member of society, and when I retired home to meals, and
late at night, I found, that if Cophagus and his wife had retired, Susannah Temple always waited
up, and remained with me a few minutes.  I had never been in love until I had fallen in with
this perfect creature; but my love for her was not the love of the world; I could not so depreciate
her--I loved her as a superior being--I loved her with fear and trembling.  I felt that she
was too pure, too holy, too good for a vain worldly creature like myself.  I felt as if my
destiny depended upon her and her fiat; that if she favoured me, my happiness in this world
and in the next were secured; that if she rejected me, I was cast away for ever. Hence all true education
involves religion. Dr. Haslett[ 7] has given an unique representation of this conception. We need
reconstruction and a new impetus. EVOLUTION OF RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN NEGRO COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES
The problem of religious education in Negro institutions is real.

Wherever the social service was very scant the one reporting felt
it his duty to give an apology for the actual conditions and express
a hope of better results in the future.

The author used also the following works for general reference: W. S. Athearn, Religion Cope, Fifteen Years of the
Religious Education Association, The American Journal of Theology, July 1917, p. 385 ff; Committee Report,
Standardization of Biblical Courses, Rel. The place of prominence given to worship, to religious
services on Sunday and in the week is either an index to their conception
concerning the value of worship or else an index of their habit toward
orthodoxy.

An attack on his forces was at hand, and the embarrassment which ensued left him
with one half, but Turner, determined to recruit his forces, was
proceeding in his effort to rally new adherents when the firing of
a gun by Hark was the signal for a fire in ambush and a retreat followed.

THE AFTERMATH OF NAT TURNER' S INSURRECTION[ 1] Nat Turner was a man
below the ordinary stature, though strong and active. What is general education?
More than that, this lack of coordination and correlation results
in duplications which surely mean wasted energy and non- effectiveness.

These teachers should have clear conceptions of the ideals of religious
education.

Modern
educators reject this as an inadequate statement of education.

The first element of this problem is the teacher. It endeavors to fill one full
of life, and human experience during the educative process. He thought
often of what he had heard said of him as to the great work he was to perform.
James describes education as the organization of acquired habits
of conduct and tendencies to behavior.

This means that one- fourth of the entire corp of teachers of religion in these institutions are
without the prestige, at least, of even the semblance of professional training. There occurred other instances
which strikingly remind one of scenes before the Civil War and during reconstruction. Unless
we have the aim supplied by social life we have only the old faculty
psychology to furnish us with ideas of powers in general or the specific
powers.[ 3] Dewey defines education as the regulation of the process
of coining to share in the social consciousness.

It is a part of the process of efficient education.

There is nothing in the make- up of human beings, taken in any isolated way which furnishes controlling
ends and serves to mark out powers. It was said to be the harmonious development of all the powers
of the individual. And the majority of educators use social terms to
define education.

Receiving, as he says, further directions from the Holy Spirit, he communicated
his designs to four of his most confidential friends." Education is a scientifically
directed process of developing progressive socialized personality."
Dewey' s idea of education is much akin to the current conceptions of religious
education. This question is:" In your opinion are the Negro colleges
meeting the needs of definite religious training?"

What is religion?

They had been directed to reserve their fire until within thirty paces, but
one of their number fired on the insurgents when within about one
hundred yards.

I Wright has objections to this definition on the ground of its narrowness.
Such persons will determine the atmosphere and spirit of the institution.

I, p. 370; E. C. Moore, What is Education; A. Morgan, Education and
Social Progress; F. G. Peabody, The Religious Education of an American
Child, Rel.

This is not synonymous with sectarianism, creeds, dogmas or ceremonies.

Educ. He was not a preacher, as was generally believed, though a man of deep religious
and spiritual nature, and seemed inspired for the performance of some extraordinary
work.

Religion is not a feeling to be imposed from without. His force continued
to increase until they numbered sixty, all armed with guns, axes,
swords, and clubs, and mounted." The religious life is the response the heart of man
makes to God, as the heart of the universe. They had killed fifty-
five whites but the tide had turned. Much writing of religious education
published recently is finding its way to these schools, the most
notable of which the Religious Education Magazine.

Dewey attacks this definition showing that there is no criterion for telling what is meant
by the terms used. The human organism is a unit.

The Sunday School and the Young People' s meetings are the most popular services for the students. The
whole personality is the object for consideration for the educator.

Frequently we find several organizations attempting to do the same thing
and each makes a miserable failure in the attempt. Turner pursued
and overtook some of them and their complete slaughter was only prevented
by the timely arrival of a party of whites approaching in another
direction from Jerusalem.

Professor Hartshorn carries the social idea to an adequate conclusion.

August, 1916, p. 314 ff; Crawford, The Media of Religious Impression in College, N. E. A. 1914, p.
494 ff; John Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education, Moral Principles in Education;
T. S. O. Evans, The University Young Men' s Christian Association
as a Training School for Religious Leaders, Rel.

Professor Peabody states the matter in the following words:[ 5 sympathy
and sympathy is one of the concerns of religion. X, 1915, p. 362; C. Reed,
The Essential Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph
Publication, 1913, p. 66; R. Rhees, Evangelisation of Education, Biblical
World, August 1916, p. 66; C. E. Pugh, The Essential Place of Religion
in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913, p. 3; I. T. Wood,
The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of Religious Instruction for Colleges,
Rel.

Modes of expression and emphasis may vary but the ideals for both are the same. Every one' s answer
except one might be summarized thus: Some good has been accomplished but we are far from the real
goal." Religious education," says he," is closely related to secular education and is largely dependent
upon it. The students must be trained along three fundamental lines, of the religious life. The
conceptions of religious education just passed in review warrant certain deductions. Religious education
deals with original data and with specific problems that rarely appear
in the instruction that is called' general' and that grow out of the
specific nature of our educational purpose.[ 7] Pedagogical Bible
School, page 207.

But the field of study of religious education is not exhausted there, but is so
specific and yet so broad as properly to choice. The newspapers of the
times contained from day to day indignant protests against the cruelties
perpetrated.

All of his master' s household, five in number, soon perished.[ 4] The insurgents
procured here four guns, several old muskets with a few rounds of ammunition.
Volunteer whites rode in all directions visiting plantations. 1915, Vol.
Slaves who were distrusted were constitute a recognized branch of
educational practice.

July 4, 1831, the anniversary of American Independence, was the day
on which the work of death was to have been begun.

It is not a mere particular that gets its meaning or finds its test in the general." Any institution
which meets adequately the requirements of religious education must have genuinely religious men and women in
the entire teaching and official force. He attempts to add breadth to the definition
in:" Religion is the endeavor to secure the conservation of socially
recognized values, through specific actions that are believed to evoke
some agency different from the ordinary ego of the individual or from
other merely human beings, and that imply a feeling of dependence
upon this agency.

Spencer said:" Education is the preparation for complete living." The blind cannot lead the blind.
The fundamental laws and principles of psychology and of education
require to be recognized as central."

One of the big problems of religious education is compulsion in regard to religious services. He must have
social knowledge. He must have the outlet of religious energy in social
service.

He must
have the opportunity of expressing the devotional attitude in worship.
The duty of the college will be far from discharged unless it makes
provision for laboratory religion where there is a working place for each
member. Half of the whites beat a precipitate retreat when Nat Turner
ordered his men to fire and rush on them.

The emphasis which they are putting on expressional activity as an essential
in the process of religious education does seem to indicate that
they regard self activity.

On the basis of the investigation we are able to point out some prominent
phases of the problem. Education does not merely prepare for something in
the future.

There are in Negro colleges, 22 teachers of religious education
who have had no professional training for the work. This emphasizes the psychological
side.

Nat Turner hesitated and allowed the time to pass by, when, the mysterious signs
reappearing, he determined to begin at once the bloody work. These institutions
have not those who are professionally trained on their faculties and
they lack funds to procure the service of such persons.

Thence they marched from plantation to plantation until by Monday
morning the party numbered fifteen with nine mounted.

One observation here is important. The prayer meetings in all except four institutions follow
a program which was effective for those who lived in another civilization.

Life is a whole and connects physical, mental and religious phases.
They do the things in which they have a volitional interest.

Retaliation began.

They must achieve their own religious experience in contact with
the environment in which they live.

These services seem to be significant in proportion to the participation
in them by the students in the Curriculum- Religious Education; R. E. Bolton,
Principles of Education; H. F. Cope, The Efficient Layman; H. F. themselves.
These men and women are coming from the institutions where the points
of view and training represented in the previous chapter are found.

First, he must have some of the intellectual value of religion. Where
should that stop? This line of attack was. In a little more than one day
120 Negroes were killed. Expressional activities are increasing
in Negro colleges but with few exceptions these are inadequate in
scope and number.

Nat Turner himself assumed the title of General Cargill with a stipend
of ten dollars a day.

For this purpose the government ordered detachments of the Light Infantry from the seventh and fifty-
fourth Regiments and from the fourth Regiment of cavalry and also
from the fourth Light Artillery to take the field under Brigadier General
Eppes. Men gain religious power by acting out their beliefs, allowing their
convictions to flow out into service.

The Governor of the commonwealth quickly called into service whatever
forces were at his command. The emphasis in education varies from
physical to mental and from mental to religious, or social.

For a long time education was defined in terms of intellect, but
that ground is no longer tenable.

If all of the religious agencies were supervised in such a way that
each would know his specific task and would not overlap that of other
agencies, much more effective work would be the result.[ 3] Dewey,
Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

The almost unanimous recognition of the religious motive in efficient
education by the educators and the manifest consciousness of needs
of better religious education have been mentioned.

  He then fled to a friend' s home but the house was broken
  open and he was dragged forth. An increasing number of trained teachers
from]"

  
  
  Religious education is the drawing out of the religious nature, the clarifying
and strengthening of religious ideals, the enriching and rationalizing
of the sense of God.... The end of religious education is service...."
  

But to achieve personality one must achieve Northern, Eastern and
Western colleges and universities is evident.

  The traditional Negro prayer meeting does not function
  religiously in the life of the Negro college student.

  

The summer schools of the various colleges and universities in the
North, East and West are offering many of these modern religious
education courses and larger numbers of the teachers of religious
education are availing themselves of the opportunities.

As indicated in the beginning of this topic, religious education is not regarded as a separate entity.
1915, p. 355 ff; E. N. Hardy, The Churches and The Educated Man; S. B. Haslett, Pedagogical Bible School,
Parts I and II; International Sunday School Association, Organized
Work in America, Vol.

I; Questionnaires, from Negro Colleges, 1917; United States Bureau of
Education Investigations, Education in the South, Bulletin 30, 1933;
Monroe N. Work, Negro Year Book, 1914, 1915, 1916; Young Men' s Christian
Association, Report of the International Committee, May 12, 1916;
Year Book, 1915- 1916.

This showed that they felt it the vital factor in the progressive
of the individuals.

Educ. He says:" Religious education is the process by which the individual
in response to a controlled environment, achieves a progressive,
conscious social[ 4] order based on regard for the worth and destiny
of every individual."

Being baffled, Nat Turner with a party of twenty men determined to
cross the Nottaway river at the Cypress Bridge and attack Jerusalem
where he expected to procure additional arms and ammunition from the
rear.

But the likelihood of some swinging from one extreme to the other is
very great.

Educ. The following sources were used in the preparation of this dissertation:
American Missionary Association Report, 1916; Baptist Missionary
Society( Woman' s) Reports, 1910- 1916; Catalogues-- Negro Colleges,
1916- 1917; W. E. B. DuBois, and Manners Among Negro Americans, Atlanta
University Publications, No. 18; Journal of the Proceedings of the
A. M. E. Church( General Conference), 1916; Journal of the Proceedings
of the Methodist Episcopal Church( General Conference), 1916; Thomas
J. Jones, Negro Education, United States Bureau of Education, Bulletins
38 and kept up until late Monday afternoon, when they reached a point,
about three miles distant from Jerusalem, the county seat, where Nat
Turner reluctantly yielded to a halt while some of his forces went
in search of reenforcements.

Educ. 1908; H. F. Fowler, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of
Religious Education for Colleges, Rel.

It is still a problem left for the religious educators in the colleges
to solve 39, 1916; Thomas J. Jones, Recent Movements in Negro Education,
United States Bureau of Education, 1912, Vol.

XIII;
C. F. Kent, Training the College Teacher, Rel. 1915, Vol. Negroes were tortured to death, burned,
maimed and subjected to nameless atrocities.

X, p. 327; P. Monroe, Cyclopedia of Education, Vol. Religion is the social attitude
toward the non- human environment."

Impatient at the delay of his-- men who had turned aside, Turner started
to the mansion house whither they had gone and on their return to
the wood found a party of white men who had pursued the bloody path
of the insurrectionists and disposed of the guard of eight men whom
Turner had left at the roadside.

1915, p. 107; I. J. Peritz, The Contents of an Ideal Curriculum of
Religious Instruction, Rel.

There are many conscientious objectors among the students who think
the removal of compulsion would be conducive better religious development.

Vol. The standard of each is found in the functional relationship of
each to society. Creeds and ceremonies have to do with ecclesiasticism
not with religion per se. Creeds are developments of theology and
dogma is an outgrowth of religion and not religion.

1915, Vol. After trying in vain to collect a sufficient force to proceed to Jerusalem, the insurgents turned
back toward his rendezvous and reached Major Thomas Ridley' s, where
forty assembled. A reign of terror followed in Virginia.[ 5] Labor
was paralyzed, plantations abandoned, women and children were driven
from home and crowded into nooks and corners.

Educ.

The massacre
was begun at the house of Joseph Travis, the man to whom Nat Turner then
belonged.[ 2] None of these does all of the things described, but
all of them do at least some one of them.

There are signs of hope in the religious education of these Negro colleges.
This delay proved the turning point in the enterprise.[ 5] Ibid.,
p. into service under General William H. Brodnax and continued in
the field until the danger had passed.

In the analysis of these data and in the determination of the method,
we can and must use matter contained in general courses of education.[ 8]
R. E. A., April 19, 1917, page 123. SOME CURRENT CONCEPTIONS OF RELIGIOUS
EDUCATION IN RELATION he TO GENERAL EDUCATION Religious education
is considered a part of general education and is included under that
genus.

He was of unmixed African lineage, with the true Negro face, every feature
of which was strongly marked. Modes of worship developed into rites
and ceremonies are ecclesiastical means of fostering the religious
spirit but not religion.

He was austere in life and manner, not given to society, but devoted his spare moments to introspection
and consecration. Education must be expressed in social terms. They were Hark Travis, Henry Porter,
Samuel Francis, Nelson Williams, Will Francis and boatswain Reese, with
Nat Turner making the seventh. To use his own language he saw many
visions. Soares has this conception in mind when he gives the following
definition of education. The religious purpose in religious education
yields the point of view and the principles of classification that are important
for religious educators. Two main causes account for this. Sunday, August
21, he met 94.

Two regiments in Brunswick and Greenville were also called those who had pledged their cooperation
and support. He eventually became seized with this idea as a frenzy.
They worked out their plans while they ate in the lonely woods of Southampton
their feast of consecration, remaining at the feast until long after
midnight.

X, p. 114. Armed with a hatchet Turner entered his master' s chamber,
the door having been broken open with the axe, and aimed the first
blow of death. Further aid was afforded by Commodore Eliott of the
United States Navy by order of whom a detachment of sailors from
the Natchez was secured and assistance also from Colonel House, the
commanding officer at Fortress Monroe, who promptly detached a part
of his force to take the field under Lieutenant Colonel Worth.[ 10]
The revolt was subdued, however, before these troops could be placed
in action and about all they accomplished thereafter was the terrifying
of Negroes who had taken no part in the insurrection and the immolation
of others who were suspected.

One individual boasted that he himself had killed between ten and fifteen
Negroes. At the barn, under the command of Nat Turner the party was
drilled and maneuvered. It is true that not enough students are able
to share in the social service projects. Henry Porter, the paymaster,
was to receive five dollars a day, and each private one dollar.

In the next place they think it is not necessary.

Nat Turner generally took his station in the rear, with fifteen or twenty
of the best armed and reliable men at the front, who generally approached
the houses as fast as their horses could run for the double purpose
of preventing escapes and striking terror.

Before nine o' clock the force had increased to forty and the insurgents
had covered an extent of territory two or three miles distant from the
first point of attack, sweeping everything before them.

Religion
is a life and a life- long process. Many are beginning to think that the religious value of the
services is often nullified by the compulsory attendance. He was eager to
push on to the county seat as speedily as possible and capture it.[ 4]
Ideals in Religious Education, R. E. A., June, 1917, p. 185.

Educ. The white men numbered eighteen and were under the command of Captain
Alexander P. Peete.

Wright in the American Journal of Theology, Volume XVI, page 385, quotes Leuba as
defining religion as a belief in a psychic superhuman power. Religion is a life and
the college should be a society where this life may be lived in its
fullest extent, encouraging practical altruism and giving the protection
which an ideal society affords against demoralization. The few remaining white
men stood their ground until Turner approached within fifty yards,
when they too followed the example of their comrades, fired and retreated
with several wounded.

When the emphasis is placed on the social or religious phase the procedure
may be properly called religious education.

Educ.

X, p. 332; The Survey of Progress in Religious and Moral Education, Rel.
He placed out sentinels and lay down to sleep, but there was to be
no sleep that night.

Circumstances surrounding these schools would suggest the former
for the larger number of these institutions.

After this Turner never saw, many of his men any more.

The religious person is one who is conscious of his divinity because
of his kinship with the universe through God, and who because of this
consciousness seeks fellowship with God and the."

Having arrived at the conclusion concerning education and religion
which are given by some of the most representative students of the
subjects, let us ascertain some conceptions of religious education.

Turner concealed himself in the woods but was not dismayed, for by
messenger he directed his forces to rally at the point from which
on the previous Sunday they had started out on their bloody work;
but the discovery of white men riding around the place as though they
were looking for some one in hiding convinced him that he had been
betrayed.

Educ.

The sufferings of many of these refugees who spent night after night
in the woods were intense.

We cannot thrust our
religious experiences upon the students from without.

The solution must result in the conservation of the good found in
the compulsory system and the good to be found in freedom of pointed
out and if they endeavored to escape, they were ruthlessly shot down.[
6] A few individual instances will show the nature and extent of this
vengeance.

It was thought that the aim of education could be expressed in purely
individual terms. He took passage in the stage coach, but the vehicle was intercepted.
There are others.

The civil authorities informed of the affair refused to interfere. There
is an unfortunate lack of coordination of religious agencies in Negro
colleges.

The lack of adequate munitions of war being apparent, Commodore Warrington, in command of the Navy Yard
in Gosport, was induced to distribute a portion of the public arms
under his control.

This is really one of, if not the most important factors in religious
education.[ 6] Dewey, Ethical Principles Underlying Education.

The hatchet glanced harmless from the head of the would- be victim and the first fatal blow
was given by Will Francis, the one of the party who had got into
the plot without Nat Turner' s suggestion.

Sixty- one white persons were killed. Professor Coe[ 8] reminds us, however, that" religious education
is not and cannot be a mere application of any generalities in which the university departments of
education deal

.
  Why, I saw a man with a
dog harnessed in a little cart; crying dog's meat and cat's meat, and I said to myself, `Now
there's the very thing--there's a profession--I can travel and earn my livelihood.'  I entered
into conversation with him, as he stopped at a low public-house, treating him to a pot of beer;
and having gained all I wanted as to the mysteries of the profession, I called for another
pot, and proposed that I should purchase his whole concern, down to his knife and apron.  The
fellow agreed, and after a good deal of bargaining, I paid him three guineas for the set out
or set up, which you please. He asked me whether I meant to hawk in London or not, and I told
him no, that I should travel the country.  He advised the western road, as there were more
populous towns in it.  Well, we had another pot to clench the bargain, and I paid down the
money and took possession, quite delighted with my new occupation.  Away I went to Brentford,
selling a bit here and there by the way, and at last arrived at the very bench where we had
sat down together and eaten our meal."

"It is strange that I did the same, and a very unlucky bench it proved to me."

"So it did to me, as you shall hear.  I had taken up my quarters at that inn, and for three
days had done very well in Brentford.  On the third evening I had just come back, it was nearly
dusk, and I took my seat on the bench, thinking of you.  My dog, rather tired, was lying down
before the cart when all of a sudden I heard a sharp whistle.  The dog sprang on his legs immediately,
and ran off several yards before I could prevent him.  The whistle was repeated, and away went
the dog and cart like lightning.  I ran as fast I could, but could not overtake him; and I
perceived that his old master was running ahead of the dog as hard as he could, and this was
the reason why the dog was off.  Still I should, I think, have overtaken him; but an old woman
coming out of a door with a saucepan to pour the hot water into the gutter, I knocked her down
and tumbled right over her into a cellar without steps.  There I was; and before I could climb
out again, man, dog, cart, cat's meat and dog's meat, had all vanished, and I have never seen
them since.  The rascal got clear off, and I was a bankrupt.  So much for my first set up in
business."

"You forgot to purchase the good-will when you made your bargain, Timothy, for the stock in trade."

"Very true, Japhet.  However, after receiving a very fair share of abuse from the old woman,
and a plaster of hot greens in my face--for she went supperless to bed, rather than not have
her revenge--I walked back to the inn, and sat down in the tap.  The two men next to me were
hawkers; one carried a large pack of dimities and calicoes, and the other a box full of combs,
needles, tapes, scissors, knives, and mock-gold trinkets. I entered into conversation with
them, and, as I again stood treat, I soon was very intimate.  They told me what their profits
were, and how they contrived to get on, and I thought, for a rambling life, it was by no means
an unpleasant one; so having obtained all the information I required, I went back to town,
took out a hawker's licence, for which I paid two guineas, and purchasing at a shop, to which
they gave me a direction, a pretty fair quantity of articles in the tape and scissor line,
off I set once more on my travels.  I took the north road this time, and picked up a very comfortable
subsistence, selling my goods for a few halfpence here, and a few halfpence there, at the cottages
as I passed by; but I soon found out, that without a newspaper I was not a confirmed hawker,
and the more radical the newspaper the better.  A newspaper will pay half the expenses of a
hawker, if he can read.  At every house, particularly every small hedge alehouse, he is received,
and placed in the best corner of the chimney, and has his board and lodging, with the exception
of what he drinks, gratis, if he will pull out the newspaper and read it to those around him
who cannot read, particularly if he can explain what is unintelligible.  Now I became a great
politician, and, moreover, a great radical, for such were the politics of all the lower classes.
I lived well, slept well, and sold my wares very fast.  I did not take more than three shillings
in the day, yet, as two out of the three were clear profit, I did pretty well. However, a little
accident happened which obliged me to change my profession, or at least the nature of the articles
which I dealt in."

"What was that?"

"A mere trifle.  I had arrived late at a small alehouse, had put up my pack, which was in a
painted deal box, on the table in the tap-room, and was very busy, after reading a paragraph
in the newspaper, making a fine speech, which I always found was received with great applause,
and many shakes of the hand, as a prime good fellow--a speech about community of rights, agrarian
division, and the propriety of an equal distribution of property, proving that, as we were
all born alike, no one had a right to have more property than his neighbour.  The people had
all gathered round me, applauding violently, when I thought I might as well look after my pack,
which had been for some time hidden from my sight by the crowd, when, to my mortification,
I found out that my earnest assertions on the propriety of community of property had had such
an influence upon some of my listeners, that they had walked off with my pack and its contents.
Unfortunately, I had deposited in my boxes all my money, considering it safer there than in
my pockets, and had nothing left but about seventeen shillings in silver, which I had received
within the last three days.  Everyone was very sorry, but no one knew anything about it; and
when I challenged the landlord as answerable, he called me a radical blackguard, and turned
me out of the door."

"If you had looked a little more after your own property, and interfered less with that of
other people, you would have done better, Tim," observed I, laughing.

"Very true; but, at all events, I have never been a radical since," replied Tim.  "But to go
on.  I walked off to the nearest town, and I commenced in a more humble way.  I purchased a
basket, and then, with the remainder of my money, I bought the commonest crockery ware, such
as basins, jugs, mugs, and putting them on my head, off I went again upon my new speculation.
I wandered about with my crockery, but it was hard work.  I could not reap the profits which
I did as a hawker and pedlar. I averaged, however, from seven to nine shillings a week, and
that was about sufficient for my support.  I went down into as many kitchens as would have
sufficed to have found a dozen mothers, supposing mine to be a cook; but I did not see anyone
who was at all like me.  Sometimes a cook replaced a basin she had broken, by giving me as
much meat as had cost her mistress five shillings, and thus avoided a scolding, for an article
which was worth only two-pence.  At other times, a cottager would give me a lodging, and would
consider himself rewarded with a mug that only cost me one penny.  I was more than three months
employed carrying crockery in every direction, and never, during the whole time, broke one
article, until one day, as I passed through Eton, there was a regular smash of the whole concern."

"Indeed, how was that?"

"I met about a dozen of the Eton boys, and they proposed a cockshy, as they called it; that
is, I was to place my articles on the top of a post, and they were to throw stones at them
at a certain distance, paying me a certain sum for each throw.  Well, this I thought a very
good bargain, so I put up a mug (worth one penny) at one penny a throw. It was knocked down
at the second shot, so it was just as well to put the full price upon them at once, they were
such remarkable good aimers at anything.  Each boy had a stick, upon which I notched off their
throws, and how much they would have to pay when all was over.  One article after another was
put on the post until my basket was empty, and then I wanted to settle with them, but as soon
as I talked about that, they all burst out into a loud laugh, and took to their heels.  I chased
them, but one might as well have chased eels.  If I got hold of one, the others pulled me behind
until he escaped, and at last they were all off, and I had nothing left."

"Not your basket?"

"No, not even that; for while I was busy after some that ran one way, the others kicked my
basket before them like a foot-ball, until it was fairly out of sight.  I had only eight-pence
in my pocket, so you perceive, Japhet, how I was going down in the world."

"You were indeed, Tim."

PART THREE, CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

TIMOTHY FINISHES HIS NARRATIVE.

"Well, I walked away, cursing all the Eton boys and all their tutors, who did not teach them
honesty as well as Latin and Greek, and put up at a very humble sort of abode, where they sold
small beer, and gave beds at two-pence per night, and I may add, with plenty of fleas in the
bargain.  There I fell in with some ballad singers and mumpers, who were making very merry,
and who asked me what was the matter.  I told them how I had been treated, and they laughed
at me, but gave me some supper, so I forgave them.  An old man, who governed the party, then
asked me whether I had any money.  I produced my enormous capital of eight-pence. `Quite enough,
if you are clever,' said he; `quite enough--many a man with half that sum has ended in rolling
in his carriage.  A man with thousands has only the advance of you a few years.  You will pay
for your lodging and then spend this sixpence in matches, and hawk them about the town.  If
you are lucky, it will be a shilling by to-morrow night.  Besides, you go down into areas,
and sometimes enter a kitchen, when the cook is above stairs.  There are plenty of things to
be picked up.'  `But I am not dishonest,' said I.  `Well, then, every man to his liking; only
if you were, you would ride in your own coach the sooner.' `And suppose I should lose all this,
or none would buy my matches, what then?' replied I; `I shall starve.'  `Starve--no, no--no
one starves in this country; all you have to do is to get into gaol--committed for a month--you
will live better perhaps than you ever did before.  I have been in every gaol in England, and
I know the good ones, for even in gaols there is a great difference.  Now the one in this town
is one of the best in all England, and I patronises it during the winter.'  I was much amused
with the discourse of this mumper, who appeared to be one of the merriest old vagabonds in
England.  I took his advice, bought six pennyworth of matches, and commenced my new vagrant
speculation.

"The first day I picked up three-pence, for one quarter of my stock, and returned to the same
place where I had slept the night before, but the fraternity had quitted on an expedition.
I spent my two-pence in bread and cheese, and paid one penny for my lodging, and again I started
the next morning, but I was very unsuccessful; nobody appeared to want matches that day; and
after walking from seven o'clock in the morning, to past seven in the evening, without selling
one farthing's worth, I sat down at the porch of a chapel, quite tired and worn out.  At last
I fell asleep, and how do you think I was awoke? by a strong sense of suffocation, and up I
sprang, coughing, and nearly choked, surrounded with smoke.  Some mischievous boys perceiving
that I was fast asleep, had set fire to my matches, as I held them in my hand between my legs,
and I did not wake until my fingers were severely burnt.  There was an end of my speculation
in matches, because there was an end of all my capital."

"My poor Timothy, I really feel for you."

"Not at all, my dear Japhet; I never, in all my distress, was sentenced to execution--my miseries
were trifles, to be laughed at.  However, I felt very miserable at the time, and walked off,
thinking about the propriety of getting into gaol as soon as I could, for the beggar had strongly
recommended it.  I was at the outskirts of the town, when I perceived two men tussling with
one another, and I walked towards them. `I says,' says one, who appeared to be a constable,
`you must come along with I.  Don't you see that 'ere board?  All wagrants shall be taken up,
and dealt with according to la.'  `Now may the devil hold you in his claws, you old psalm-singing
thief--an't I a sailor--and an't I a wagrant by profession, and all according to law?'  `That
won't do,' says the other; `I commands you in the king's name, to let me take you to prison,
and I commands you also, young man,' says he--for I had walked up to them--`I commands you,
as a lawful subject, to assist me.'  `What will you give the poor fellow for his trouble?'
said the sailor.  `It's his duty, as a lawful subject, and I'll give him nothing; but I'll
put him in prison if he don't.'  `Then, you old Rhinoceros, I'll give him five shillings if
he'll help me, and so now he may take his choice.'  At all events, thought I, this will turn
out lucky one way or the other; but I will support the man who is most generous; so I went
up to the constable, who was a hurley sort of a fellow, and tripped up his heels, and down
he came on the back of his head.  You know my old trick, Japhet?"

"Yes; I never knew you fail at that."

"`Well,' the sailor says to me, `I've a notion you've damaged his upper works, so let us start
off, and clap on all sail for the next town.  I know where to drop an anchor.  Come along with
me, and, as long as I've a shot in the locker, damn me if I won't share it with one who has
proved a friend in need.'  The constable did not come to his senses; he was very much stunned,
but we loosened his neckcloth, and left him there, and started off as fast as we could.  My
new companion, who had a wooden leg, stopped by a gate, and clambered over it.  `We must lose
no time,' said he; `and I may just as well have the benefit of both legs.' So saying, he took
off his wooden stump, and let down his real leg, which was fixed up just as you saw mine. 
I made no comments; but off we set, and at a good round pace gained a village about five miles
distant. `Here we will put up for the night; but they will look for us to-morrow at daylight,
or a little after, therefore we must be starting early.  I know the law beggars well; they
won't turn out afore sunrise.'  He stopped at a paltry alehouse, where we were admitted, and
soon were busy with a much better supper than I had ever imagined they could have produced;
but my new friend ordered right and left, with a tone of authority, and everybody in the house
appeared at his beck and command. After a couple of glasses of grog, we retired to our beds.

"The next morning we started before break of day, on our road to another town, where my companion
said the constables would never take the trouble to come after him.  On our way he questioned
me as to my mode of getting my livelihood, and I narrated how unfortunate I had been.  `One
good turn deserves another,' replied the sailor; `and now I'll set you up in trade.  Can you
sing?  Have you anything of a voice?'  `I can't say that I have,' replied I.  `I don't mean
whether you can sing in tune, or have a good voice, that's no consequence; all I want to know
is, have you a good loud one?'  `Loud enough, if that's all.'  `That's all that's requisite;
so long as you can make yourself heard--you may then howl like a jackall or bellow like a mad
buffalo, no matter which-- as many pay us for to get rid of us, as out of charity; and so long
as the money comes, what's the odds?  Why, I once knew an old chap, who could only play one
tune on the clarionet, and that tune out of all tune, who made his fortune in six or seven
streets, for everyone gave him money, and told him to go away.  When he found out that, he
came every morning as regular as clock-work.  Now there was one of the streets which was chiefly
occupied by music sellers and Italian singers--for them foreigners always herd together--and
this tune, "which the old cow died of," as the saying is, used to be their horror, and out
came the halfpence to send him away.  There was a sort of club also in that street, of larking
sort of young men; and when they perceived that the others gave the old man money to get rid
of his squeaking, they sent him out money, with orders to stay and play to them, so then the
others sent out more for him to go away, and between the two, the old fellow brought home more
money than all the cadgers and mumpers in the district.  Now if you have a loud voice, I can
provide you with all the rest.'--`Do you gain your livelihood by that?'--`To be sure I do;
and I can tell you, that of all the trades going, there is none equal to it. You see, my hearty,
I have been on board of a man-of-war--not that I'm a sailor, or was ever bred to the sea--but
I was shipped as a landsman, and did duty in the waist and afterguard.  I know little or nothing
of my duty as a seaman, nor was it required in the station I was in, so I never learnt, although
I was four years on board; all I learnt was the lingo and slang--and that you must contrive
to learn from me.  I bolted, and made my way good to Lunnun, but I should soon have been picked
up and put on board the Tender again, if I hadn't got this wooden stump made, which I now carry
in my hand.  I had plenty of songs, and I commenced my profession, and a real good 'un it is,
I can tell you. Why, do you know, that a'ter a good victory, I have sometimes picked up as
much as two pounds a day, for weeks running; as it is, I averages from fifteen shillings to
a pound.  Now, as you helped me away from that land shark, who would soon have found out that
I had two legs, and have put me into limbo as an impostor, I will teach you to arn your livelihood
after my fashion.  You shall work with me until you are fit to start alone, and then there's
plenty of room in England for both of us; but mind, never tell anyone what you pick up, or
every mumper in the island will put on a suit of sailor's clothes, and the thing will be blown
upon.'  Of course, this was too good an offer to be rejected, and I joyfully acceded.  At first,
I worked with him as having only one arm, the other being tied down to my side, and my jacket
sleeve hanging loose and empty, and we roared away right and left, so as to bring down a shower
of coppers wherever we went.  In about three weeks my friend thought I was able to start by
myself; and giving me half of the ballads, and five shillings to start with, I shook hands
and parted with, next to you, the best friend that I certainly ever had.  Ever since I have
been crossing the country in every direction, with plenty of money in my pocket, and always
with one eye looking sharp out for you.  My beautiful voice fortunately attracted your attention,
and here I am, and at an end of my history; but if ever I am away from you, and in distress
again, depend upon it I shall take to my wooden leg and ballads for my support."

Such were the adventures of Timothy, who was metamorphosed into a precise Quaker.

"I do not like the idea of your taking up a system of deceit, Timothy. It may so happen--for
who knows what may occur?--that you may again be thrown upon your own resources.  Now, would
it not be better that you should obtain a more intimate knowledge of the profession which we
are now in, which is liberal, and equally profitable?  By attention and study you will be able
to dispense medicines and make up prescriptions as well as myself, and who knows but that some
day you may be the owner of a shop like this?"

"Verily, verily, thy words do savour of much wisdom," replied Tim, in a grave voice; "and I
will even so follow thy advice."

PART THREE, CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

I AM UNSETTLED BY UNEXPECTED INTELLIGENCE, AND AGAIN YEARN AFTER THE WORLD OF FASHION.

I knew that he was mocking me in this reply, but I paid no attention to that; I was satisfied
that he consented.  I now made him assist me, and under my directions he made up the prescriptions.
I explained to him the nature of every medicine; and I made him read many books of physic and
surgery.  In short, after two or three months, I could trust to Timothy as well as if I were
in the shop myself; and having an errand boy, I had much more leisure, and I left him in charge
after dinner. The business prospered, and I was laying up money.  My leisure time, I hardly
need say, was spent with Mr Cophagus and his family, and my attachment to Susannah Temple increased
every day.  Indeed, both Mr and Mrs Cophagus considered that it was to be a match, and often
joked with me when Susannah was not present.  With respect to Susannah, I could not perceive
that I was farther advanced in her affections than after I had known her two months.  She was
always kind and considerate, evidently interested in my welfare, always checking in me anything
like levity-- frank and confiding in her opinions--and charitable to all, as I thought, except
to me.  But I made no advance that I could perceive. The fact was, that I dared not speak to
her as I might have done to another who was not so perfect.  And yet she smiled, as I thought,
more kindly when I returned than at other times, and never appeared to be tired of my company.
If I did sometimes mention the marriage of another, or attentions paid which would, in all
probability, end in marriage, it would create no confusion or blushing on her part; she would
talk over that subject as composedly as any other.  I was puzzled; and I had been a year and
nine months constantly in her company, and had never dared to tell her that I loved her.  But
one day Mr Cophagus brought up the subject when we were alone.  He commenced by stating how
happy he had been as a married man; that he had given up all hopes of a family, and that he
should like to see Susannah Temple, his sister-in-law, well married, that he might leave his
property to her children; and then he put the very pertinent question--"Japhet--verily-- thou
hast done well--good business--money coming in fast--settle, Japhet--marry--have children--and
so on.  Susannah--nice girl--good wife--pop question--all right--sly puss--won't say no--um--what
d'ye say?--and so on."  I replied that I was very much attached to Susannah; but that I was
afraid that the attachment was not mutual, and therefore hesitated to propose.  Cophagus then
said that he would make his wife sound his sister, and let me know the result.

This was in the morning just before I was about to walk over to the shop, and I left the house
in a state of anxiety and suspense.  When I arrived at the shop, I found Tim there as usual;
but the colour in his face was heightened as he said to me, "Read this, Japhet," and handed
to me the "Reading Mercury."  I read an advertisement as follows:--

"If Japhet Newland, who was left at the Foundling Asylum, and was afterwards for some time
in London, will call at Number 16, Throgmorton Court, Minories, he will hear of something very
much to his advantage, and will discover that of which he has been so long in search.  Should
this reach his eye, he is requested to write immediately to the above address, with full particulars
of his situation.  Should anyone who reads this be able to give any information relative to
the said J.N., he will be liberally rewarded."

I sank down on the chair.  "Merciful Heaven! this can be no mistake--`he will discover the
object of his search.'  Timothy, my dear Timothy, I have at last found out my father."

"So I should imagine, my dear Japhet," replied Timothy, "and I trust it will not prove a disappointment."

"They never would be so cruel, Timothy," replied I.

"But still it is evident that Mr Masterton is concerned in it," observed Timothy.

"Why so?" inquired I.

"How otherwise should it appear in the Reading newspaper?  He must have examined the post-mark
of my letter."

To explain this, I must remind the reader that Timothy had promised to write to Mr Masterton
when he found me; and he requested my permission shortly after we had met again.  I consented
to his keeping his word, but restricted him to saying any more than "that he had found me,
and that I was well and happy."  There was no address in the letter as a clue to Mr Masterton
as to where I might be, and it could only have been from the post-mark that he could have formed
any idea.  Timothy's surmise was therefore very probable; but I would not believe that Mr Masterton
would consent to the insertion of that portion of the advertisement, if there was no foundation
for it.

"What will you do, Japhet?"

"Do," replied I, recovering from my reverie, for the information had again roused up all my
dormant feelings--"Do," replied I, "why, I shall set off for town this very morning."

"In that dress, Japhet?"

"I suppose I must," replied I, "for I have no time to procure another;" and all my former ideas
of fashion and appearance were roused, and in full activity--my pride recovered its ascendency.

"Well," replied Timothy, "I hope you will find your father all that you could wish."

"I'm sure of it, Tim--I'm sure of it," replied I; "you must run and take a place in the first
coach."

"But you are not going without seeing Mr and Mrs Cophagus, and--Miss Temple," continued Tim,
laying an emphasis upon the latter name.

"Of course not," replied I, colouring deeply.  "I will go at once.  Give me the newspaper, Tim."

I took the newspaper, and hastened to the house of Mr Cophagus.  I found them all three sitting
in the breakfast parlour, Mr Cophagus, as usual, reading, with his spectacles on his nose,
and the ladies at work.

"What is the matter, friend Japhet?" exclaimed Mr Cophagus, as I burst into the room, my countenance
lighted up with excitement.

"Read that, sir," said I to Mr Cophagus.

Mr Cophagus read it.  "Hum--bad news--lose Japhet--man of fashion--and so on," said Cophagus,
pointing out the paragraph to his wife, as he handed over the paper.

In the mean time I watched the countenance of Susannah--a slight emotion, but instantly checked,
was visible at Mr Cophagus's remark. She then remained quiet until her sister, who had read
the paragraph, handed the paper to her.  "I give thee joy, Japhet, at the prospect of finding
out thy parent," said Mrs Cophagus.  "I trust thou wilt find in him one who is to be esteemed
as a man.  When departest thou?"

"Immediately," replied I.

"I cannot blame thee--the ties of nature are ever powerful.  I trust that thou wilt write to
us, and that we soon shall see thee return."

"Yes, yes," said Cophagus, "see father--shake hands--come back--heh!-- settle here--and so on."

"I shall not be altogether my own master, perhaps," observed I.  "If my father desires that
I remain with him, must not I obey?  But I know nothing at present.  You shall hear from me.
Timothy can take my place in the--" I could not bear the idea of the word shop, and I stopped.
Susannah, for the first time, looked me earnestly in the face, but she said nothing.  Mr and
Mrs Cophagus, who probably had been talking over the subject of our conversation, and thought
this a good opportunity to allow me to have an eclaircissement with Susannah, left the room,
saying they would look after my portmanteau and linen.  "Susannah," said I, "you do not appear
to rejoice with me."

"Japhet Newland, I will rejoice at everything that may tend to thy happiness, believe me; but
I do not feel assured but that this trial may prove too great, and that thou mayst fall away.
Indeed, I perceive even now that thou art excited with new ideas, and visions of pride."

"If I am wrong, forgive me.  Susannah, you must know that the whole object of my existence
has been to find my father; and now that I have every reason to suppose that my wish is obtained,
can you be surprised, or can you blame me, that I long to be pressed in his arms?"

"Nay, Japhet, for that filial feeling I do commend thee; but ask thy own heart, is that the
only feeling which now exciteth thee?  Dost thou not expect to find thy father one high in
rank and power?  Dost thou not anticipate to join once more the world which thou hast quitted,
yet still hast sighed for?  Dost thou not already feel contempt for thy honest profession:--nay,
more, dost thou not only long to cast off the plain attire, and not only the attire, but the
sect which in thy adversity thou didst embrace the tenets of?  Ask thy own heart, and reply
if thou wilt, but I press thee not so to do; for the truth would be painful, and a lie thou
knowest, I do utterly abhor."

I felt that Susannah spoke the truth, and I would not deny it.  I sat down by her.  "Susannah,"
said I, "it is not very easy to change at once.  I have mixed for years in the world, with
you I have not yet lived two.  I will not deny but that the feelings you have expressed have
risen in my heart, but I will try to repress them; at least, for your sake, Susannah, I would
try to repress them, for I value your opinion more than that of the whole world.  You have
the power to do with me as you please:--will you exert that power?"

"Japhet," replied Susannah, "the faith which is not built upon a more solid foundation than
to win the favour of an erring being like myself is but weak; that power over thee, which thou
expectest will fix thee in the right path, may soon be lost, and what is then to direct thee?
If no purer motives than earthly affection are to be thy stay, most surely thou wilt fall.
But no more of this; thou hast a duty to perform, which is to go to thy earthly father, and
seek his blessing.  Nay, more, I would that thou shouldst once more enter into the world, there
thou mayst decide.  Shouldst thou return to us, thy friends will rejoice, and not one of them
will be more joyful than Susannah Temple.  Fare thee well, Japhet, mayst thou prove superior
to temptation.  I will pray for thee--earnestly I will pray for thee, Japhet," continued Susannah,
with a quivering of her lips and broken voice, and she left the room.

PART THREE, CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

I RETURN TO LONDON, AND MEET WITH MR MASTERTON.

I went up stairs, and found that all was ready, and I took leave of Mr and Mrs Cophagus, both
of whom expressed their hopes that I would not leave them for ever.  "Oh, no," replied I, "I
should indeed be base, if I did."  I left them, and with Ephraim following with my portmanteau,
I quitted the house.  I had gone about twenty yards, when I recollected that I had left on
the table the newspaper with the advertisement containing the direction whom to apply to, and,
desiring Ephraim to proceed, I returned.  When I entered the parlour, Susannah Temple was resting
her face in her hands and weeping.  The opening of the door made her start up; she perceived
that it was I, and she turned away.  "I beg your pardon, I left the newspaper," said I, stammering.
I was about to throw myself at her feet, declare my sincere affection, and give up all idea
of finding my father until we were married, when she, without saying a word, passed quickly
by me, and hastened out of the room.  "She loves me, then," thought I; "thank God:--I will
not go yet, I will speak to her first."  I sat down, quite overpowered with contending feelings.
The paper was in my hand, the paragraph was again read; I thought but of my father, and I left
the house.

In half an hour I had shaken hands with Timothy and quitted the town of Reading.  How I arrived
in London, that is to say, what passed, or what we passed, I know not: my mind was in such
a state of excitement.  I hardly know how to express the state that I was in.  It was a sort
of mental whirling which blinded me--round and round--from my father and the expected meeting,
then to Susannah, my departure, and her tears-- castle building of every description.  After
the coach stopped, there I remained fixed on the top of it, not aware that we were in London,
until the coachman asked me whether the spirit did not move me to get down.  I recollected
myself, and calling a hackney-coach, gave orders to be driven to the Piazza, Covent Garden.

"Piazza, Common Garden," said the waterman; "why that ban't an 'otel for the like o' you, master.
They'll torment you to death, them young chaps."

I had forgotten that I was dressed as a Quaker.  "Tell the coachman to stop at the first cloth
warehouse where they have ready-made cloaks," said I.  The man did so; I went out and purchased
a roquelaure, which enveloped my whole person.  I then stopped at a hatter's, and purchased
a hat according to the mode.  "Now drive to the Piazza," said I, entering the coach.  I know
not why, but I was resolved to go to that hotel.  It was the one I had stayed at when I first
arrived in London, and I wished to see it again.  When the hackney-coach stopped, I asked the
waiter who came out whether he had apartments, and answering me in the affirmative, I followed
him, and was shown into the same rooms I had previously occupied.  "These will do," said I,
"now let me have something to eat, and send for a good tailor."  The waiter offered to remove
my cloak, but I refused, saying that I was cold.  He left the room, and I threw myself on the
sofa, running over all the scenes which had passed in that room with Carbonnell, Harcourt,
and others.  My thoughts were broken in upon by the arrival of the tailor.  "Stop a moment,"
said I, "and let him come in when I ring."  So ashamed was I of my Quaker's dress, that I threw
off my coat and waistcoat, and put on my cloak again before I rang the bell for the tailor
to come up.  "Mr --," said I, "I must have a suit of clothes ready by to-morrow at ten o'clock."

"Impossible, sir."

"Impossible!" said I, "and you pretend to be a fashionable tailor. Leave the room."

At this peremptory behaviour, the tailor imagined that I must be somebody.

"I will do my possible, sir, and if I can only get home in time to stop the workmen, I think
it may be managed.  Of course, you are aware of the expense of night work."

"I am only aware of this, that if I give an order, I am accustomed to have it obeyed; I learnt
that from my poor friend, Major Carbonnell."

The tailor bowed low; there was magic in the name, although the man was dead.

"Here have I been masquerading in a Quaker's dress, to please a puritanical young lady, and
I am obliged to be off without any other clothes in my portmanteau; so take my measure, and
I expect the clothes at ten precisely."  So saying, I threw off my roquelaure, and desired
him to proceed.  This accomplished, the tradesman took his leave. Shortly afterwards, the door
opened, and as I lay wrapped up in my cloak on the sofa, in came the landlord and two waiters,
each bearing a dish of my supper.  I wished them at the devil; but I was still more surprised
when the landlord made a low bow, saying, "Happy to see you returned, Mr Newland; you've been
away some time--another grand tour, I presume."

"Yes, Mr --, I have had a few adventures since I was last here," replied I, carelessly, "but
I am not very well.  You may leave the supper, and if I feel inclined, I will take a little
by-and-by,--no one need wait."

The landlord and waiter bowed and went out of the room.  I turned the key of the door, put
on my Quaker's coat, and made a hearty supper, for I had had nothing since breakfast.  When
I had finished, I returned to the sofa, and I could not help analysing my own conduct.  "Alas,"
thought I, "Susannah, how rightly did you judge me!  I am not away from you more than eighteen
hours, and here I am ashamed of the dress which I have so long worn, and been satisfied with,
in your society.  Truly did you say that I was full of pride, and would joyfully re-enter the
world of vanity and vexation."  And I thought of Susannah, and her tears after my supposed
departure, and I felt angry and annoyed at my want of strength of mind and my worldly feelings.

I retired early to bed, and did not wake until late the next morning. When I rang the bell,
the chambermaid brought in my clothes from the tailor's: I dressed, and I will not deny that
I was pleased with the alteration.  After breakfast I ordered a coach, and drove to Number
16, Throgmorton Court, Minories.  The house was dirty outside, and the windows had not been
cleaned apparently for years, and it was with some difficulty when I went in that I could decypher
a tall, haggard-looking man seated at the desk.

"Your pleasure, sir?" said he.

"Am I speaking to the principal?" replied I.

"Yes, sir, my name is Chatfield."

"I come to you, sir, relative to an advertisement which appeared in the papers.  I refer to
this," continued I, putting the newspaper down on the desk, and pointing to the advertisement.

"Oh, yes, very true: can you give us any information?"

"Yes, sir, I can, and the most satisfactory."

"Then, sir, I am sorry that you have had so much trouble, but you must call at Lincoln's Inn
upon a lawyer of the name of Masterton--the whole affair is now in his hands."

"Can you, sir, inform me who is the party that is inquiring after this young man?"

"Why, yes; it is a General De Benyon, who has lately returned from the East Indies."

"Good God! is it possible?" thought I; "how strange that my own wild fancy should have settled
upon him as my father!"

I hurried away; threw myself into the hackney-coach, and desired the man to drive to Lincoln's
Inn.  I hastened up to Mr Masterton's rooms: he was fortunately at home, although he stood
at the table with his hat and his great coat on, ready to go out.

"My dear sir, have you forgotten me?" said I, in a voice choked with emotion, taking his hand
and squeezing it with rapture.

"By heavens, you are determined that I shall not forget you for some minutes, at least," exclaimed
he, wringing his hand with pain.  "Who the devil are you?"

Mr Masterton could not see without his spectacles, and my subdued voice he had not recognised.
He pulled them out, as I made no reply, and fixing them across his nose--"Hah! why yes--it
is Japhet, is it not?"

"It is indeed, sir," said I, again offering my hand, which he shook warmly.

"Not quite so hard, my dear fellow, this time," said the old lawyer; "I acknowledge your vigour,
and that is sufficient.  I am very glad to see you; Japhet, I am indeed--you--you scamp--you
ungrateful fellow.  Sit down--sit down--first help me off with my great coat: I presume the
advertisement has brought you into existence again.  Well, it's all true; and you have at last
found your father, or, rather, he has found you.  And what's more strange, you hit upon the
right person; that is strange--very strange indeed."

"Where is he, sir?" interrupted I, "where is he--take me to him."

"No, rather be excused," replied Mr Masterton, "for he is gone to Ireland, so you must wait."

"Wait, sir, oh no--I must follow him."

"That will only do harm; for he is rather a queer sort of an old gentleman, and although he
acknowledges that he left you as Japhet and has searched for you, yet he is so afraid of somebody
else's brat being put upon him, that he insists upon most undeniable proofs.  Now, we cannot
trace you from the hospital unless we can find that fellow Cophagus, and we have made every
search after him, and no one can tell where he is."

"But I left him but yesterday morning, sir," replied I.

"Good--very good; we must send for him or go to him; besides, he has the packet intrusted to
the care of Miss Maitland, to whom he was executor, which proves the marriage of your father.
Very strange--very strange indeed, that you should have hit upon it as you did--almost supernatural.
However, all right now, my dear boy, and I congratulate you.  Your father is a very strange
person: he has lived like a despot among slaves all his life, and will not be thwarted, I can
tell you.  If you say a word in contradiction he'll disinherit you:--terrible old tiger, I
must say.  If it had not been for your sake, I should have done with him long ago.  He seems
to think the world ought to be at his feet. Depend upon it, Japhet, there is no hurry about
seeing him;--and see him you shall not, until we have every proof of your identity ready to
produce to him, I hope you have the bump of veneration strong, Japhet, and plenty of filial
duty, or you will be kicked out of the house in a week.  Damn me, if he didn't call me an old
thief of a lawyer."

"Indeed, sir," replied I, laughing; "I must apologise to you for my father's conduct."

"Never mind, Japhet; I don't care about a trifle; but why don't you ask after your friends?"

"I have longed so to do, sir," replied I.  "Lord Windermear--"

"Is quite well, and will be most happy to see you."

"Lady de Clare, and her daughter--"

"Lady de Clare has entered into society again, and her daughter, as you call her--your Fleta,
alias Cecilia de Clare--is the belle of the metropolis.  But now, sir, as I have answered all
your interrogatories, and satisfied you upon the most essential points, will you favour me
with a narrative of your adventures, (for adventures I am sure you must have had,) since you
ran away from us all in that ungrateful manner."

"Most certainly, sir, I will; and, as you say, I have had adventures. But it really will be
a long story."

"Then we'll dine here, and pass the evening together--so that's settled."

PART THREE, CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

IN WHICH I AM LET INTO MORE PARTICULARS RELATIVE TO MY FATHER'S HISTORY.

I dismissed the coach, while Mr Masterton gave his orders for dinner, and we then turned the
key of the door to avoid intrusion, and I commenced.  It was nearly dinner-time before I had
finished my story.

"Well, you really appear to be born for getting into scrapes, and getting out of them again
in a miraculous way," observed Mr Masterton. "Your life would make a novel."

"It would indeed, sir," replied I.  "I only hope, like all novels, it will wind up well."

"So do I; but dinner's ready, Japhet, and after dinner we'll talk the matter over again, for
there are some points upon which I require some explanation."

We sat down to dinner, and when we had finished, and the table had been cleared, we drew to
the fire, with our bottle of wine.  Mr Masterton stirred the fire, called for his slippers,
and then crossing his legs over the fender, resumed the subject.

"Japhet, I consider it most fortunate that we have met, previous to your introduction to your
father.  You have so far to congratulate yourself, that your family is undeniably good, there
being, as you know, an Irish peerage in it; of which, however, you have no chance, as the present
earl has a numerous offspring.  You are also fortunate as far as money is concerned, as I have
every reason to believe that your father is a very rich man, and, of course, you are his only
child; but I must now prepare you to meet with a very different person than perhaps the fond
anticipations of youth may have led you to expect.  Your father has no paternal feelings that
I can discover; he has wealth, and he wishes to leave it--he has therefore sought you out.
But he is despotic, violent, and absurd; the least opposition to his will makes him furious,
and I am sorry to add, that I am afraid that he is very mean.  He suffered severely when young
from poverty, and his own father was almost as authoritative and unforgiving as himself.  And
now I will state how it was that you were left at the Asylum when an infant.  Your grandfather
had procured for your father a commission in the army, and soon afterwards procured him a lieutenancy.
He ordered him to marry a young lady of large fortune, whom he had never seen, and sent for
him for that purpose.  I understand that she was very beautiful, and had your father seen her,
it is probable he would have made no objection; but he very foolishly sent a peremptory refusal,
for which he was dismissed for ever.  In a short time afterwards your father fell in love with
a young lady of great personal attractions, and supposed to possess a large fortune.  To deceive
her, he pretended to be the heir to the earldom, and, after a hasty courtship, they ran off,
and were married.  When they compared notes, which they soon did, it was discovered that, on
his side, he had nothing but the pay of a subaltern, and on hers, that she had not one shilling.
Your father stormed, and called his wife an impostor; she recriminated, and the second morning
after the marriage was passed in tears on her side, and oaths, curses, and revilings on his.
The lady, however, appeared the more sensible party of the two. Their marriage was not known,
she had run away on a pretence to visit a relative, and it was actually supposed in the county
town where she resided, that such was the case.  `Why should we quarrel in this way?' observed
she.  `You, Edmund, wished to marry a fortune, and not me--I may plead guilty to the same duplicity.
We have made a mistake; but it is not too late.  It is supposed that I am on a visit to --,
and that you are on furlough for a few days.  Did you confide your secret to any of your brother
officers?'  `Not one,' muttered your father.  `Well, then, let us part as if nothing had happened,
and nobody will be the wiser.  We are equally interested in keeping the secret.  Is it agreed?'--Your
father immediately consented.  He accompanied your mother to the house at --, where she was
expected, and she framed a story for her delay, by having met such a very polite young man.
Your father returned to his regiment, and thus did they like two privateers, who, when they
meet and engage, as soon as they find out their mistake, hoist their colours, and sheer off
by mutual consent."

"I can't say much for my mother's affection or delicacy," observed I.

"The less you say the better, Japhet--however, that is your father's story.  And how to proceed.
It appears that, about two months afterwards, your father received a letter from your mother,
acquainting him that their short intercourse had been productive of certain results, and requesting
that he would take the necessary steps to provide for the child, and avoid exposure, or that
she would be obliged to confess her marriage.  By what means they contrived to avoid exposure
until the period of her confinement, I know not, but your father states that the child was
born in a house in London, and, by agreement, was instantly put into his hands; that he, with
the consent of his wife, left you at the door of the Asylum, with the paper and the bank note,
from which you received the name of Newland.  At the time, he had no idea of reclaiming you
himself; but the mother had; for, heartless as she appears to have been, yet a mother must
feel for her child.  Your father's regiment was then ordered out to the East Indies, and he
was rapidly promoted for his gallantry and good conduct during the war in the Mysore territory.
Once only has he returned home on furlough, and then he did make inquiries after you; not,
it appears, with a view of finding you out on his own account, but from a promise which he
made your mother."

"My mother! what, have they met since?"

"Yes; your mother went out to India on speculation, passing off as a single girl, and was very
well married there, I was going to say; however, she committed a very splendid bigamy."

"Good heavens! how totally destitute of principle!"

"Your father asserts that your mother was a freethinker, Japhet; her father had made her one;
without religion a woman has no stay.  Your father was in the up country during the time that
your mother arrived, and was married to one of the council of Calcutta.  Your father says that
they met at a ball at Government House.  She was still a very handsome woman, and much admired.
When your father recognised her, and was told that she was lately married to the honourable
Mr --, he was quite electrified, and would have quitted the room; but she had perceived him,
and walking up to him with the greatest coolness, claimed him as an old acquaintance in England,
and afterwards they often met, but she never adverted to what had passed between them, until
the time for his departure to England on leave, and she then sent for him, and begged that
he would make some inquiries after you, Japhet.  He did so, and you know the result.  On his
return to India he found that your mother had been carried off by the prevailing pestilence.
At that period, your father was not rich, but he was then appointed to the chief command in
the Carnatic, and reaped a golden harvest in return for his success and bravery.  It appears,
as far as I could obtain it from him, that as long as your mother was alive, he felt no interest
about you; but her death, and the subsequent wealth which poured upon him, have now induced
him to find out an heir, to whom it may be bequeathed.

"Such, Japhet, are the outlines of your father's history; and I must point out that he has
no feelings of affection for you at present.  The conduct of your mother is ever before him,
and if it were not that he wishes an heir, I should almost say that his feelings are those
of dislike.  You may create an interest in his heart, it is true: and he may be gratified by
your personal appearance; but you will have a very difficult task, as you will have to submit
to his caprices and fancies, and I am afraid that, to a high spirit like yours, they will be
almost unbearable."

"Really, sir, I begin to feel that the fondest anticipations are seldom realised, and almost
to wish that I had not been sought for by my father.  I was happy and contented, and now I
do not see any chance of having to congratulate myself on the change."

"On one or two points I also wish to question you.  It appears that you have entered into the
sect denominated Quakers.  Tell me candidly, do you subscribe heartily and sincerely to their
doctrines?  And I was going to add, is it your intention to remain with them?  I perceive much
difficulty in all this."

"The tenets of the sect I certainly do believe to be more in accordance with the Christian
religion than any other; and I have no hesitation in asserting, from my knowledge of those
who belong to this sect, that they, generally speaking, lead better lives.  There are some
points connected with their worship, which, at first, I considered ridiculous: the feeling
has, however, worn off.  As to their quaint manner of speaking, that has been grossly exaggerated.
Their dress is a part of their religion."

"Why so, Japhet?"

"I can reply to you in the words of Susannah Temple, when I made the same interrogatory.  `You
think the peculiarity of our dress is an outward form which is not required.  It was put on
to separate us from others, and as a proof of our sincerity; but still, the discarding of the
dress is a proof of sincerity.  We consider, that to admire the person is vain, and our creed
is humility.  It is therefore an outward and visible sign, that we would act up to those tenets
which we profess. It is not all who wear the dress who are Quakers in heart or conduct; but
we know that when it is put aside, the tenets of our persuasion are at the same time renounced,
therefore do we consider it essential.  I do not mean to say but that the heart may be as pure,
and the faith continue as steadfast, without such signs outwardly, but it is a part of our
creed, and we must not choose, but either reject all or none.'"

"Very well argued by the little Quakeress; and now Japhet, I should like to put another question
to you.  Are you very much attached to this young puritan?"

"I will not deny but that I am.  I love her sincerely."

"Does your love carry you so far, that you would, for her sake, continue a Quaker, and marry her?"

"I have asked myself that question at least a hundred times during the last twenty-four hours,
and I cannot decide.  If she would dress as others do, and allow me to do the same, I would
marry her to-morrow; whether I shall ever make up my mind to adhere to the persuasion, and
live and die a Quaker for her sake, is quite another matter--but I am afraid not--I am too
worldly-minded.  The fact is, I am in a very awkward position with respect to her.  I have
never acknowledged my affection, or asked for a return, but she knows I love her, and I know
that she loves me."

"Like all vain boys, you flatter yourself."

"I leave you to judge, sir," replied I, repeating to him our parting tete-a-tete, and how I
had returned, and found her in tears.

"All that certainly is very corroborative evidence; but tell me, Japhet, do you think she loves
you well enough to abandon all for your sake?"

"No, nor ever will, sir, she is too high-principled, too high-minded. She might suffer greatly,
but she never would swerve from what she thought was right."

"She must be a fine character, Japhet, but you will be in a dilemma: indeed, it appears to
me, that your troubles are now commencing instead of ending, and that you would have been much
happier where you were, than you will be by being again brought out into the world.  Your prospect
is not over-cheerful.  You have an awkward father to deal with: you will be under a strong
check, I've a notion, and I am afraid you will find that, notwithstanding you will be once
more received into society, all is vanity and vexation of spirit."

"I am afraid you are right, sir," replied I, "but at all events, it will be something gained,
to be acknowledged to the world by a father of good family, whatever else I may have to submit
to.  I have been the sport of Fortune all my life, and probably she has not yet done playing
with me; but it is late, and I will now wish you good night."

"Good night, Japhet; if I have any intelligence I will let you know. Lady de Clare's address
is Number 13, Park Street.  You will, of course, go there as soon as you can."

"I will, sir, after I have written my letters to my friends at Reading."

PART THREE, CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

I AM A LITTLE JEALOUS, AND, LIKE THE IMMORTAL WILLIAM BOTTOM, INCLINED TO ENACT MORE PARTS
THAN ONE--WITH A BIG EFFORT MY HANKERING AFTER BIGAMY IS MASTERED BY MR MASTERTON--AND BY MY
OWN GOOD SENSE.

I returned home to reflect upon what Mr Masterton had told me, and I must say that I was not
very well pleased with his various information. His account of my mother, although she was
no more, distressed me, and, from the character which he gave of my father, I felt convinced
that my happiness would not be at all increased by my having finally attained the long-desired
object of my wishes.  Strange to say, I had no sooner discovered my father, but I wished that
he had never turned up; and when I compared the peaceful and happy state of existence which
I had lately enjoyed, with the prospects of what I had in future to submit to, I bitterly repented
that the advertisement had been seen by Timothy; still, on one point, I was peculiarly anxious,
without hardly daring to anatomise my feelings; it was relative to Cecilia de Clare, and what
Mr Masterton had mentioned in the course of our conversation.  The next morning I wrote to
Timothy and to Mr Cophagus, giving them a short detail of what I had been informed by Mr Masterton,
and expressing a wish, which I then really did feel, that I had never been summoned away from them.

Having finished my letters, I set off to Park Street, to call upon Lady de Clare and Cecilia.
It was rather early, but the footman who opened the door recognised me, and I was admitted
upon his own responsibility. It was now more than eighteen months since I had quitted their
house at Richmond, and I was very anxious to know what reception I might have.  I followed
the servant up stairs, and when he opened the door walked in, as my name was announced.

Lady de Clare rose in haste; so did Cecilia, and so did a third person, whom I had not expected
to have met--Harcourt.  "Mr Newland," exclaimed Lady de Clare, "this is indeed unexpected."
Cecilia also came forward, blushing to the forehead.  Harcourt held back, as if waiting for
the advances to be made on my side.  On the whole, I never felt more awkwardly, and I believe
my feelings were reciprocated by the whole party.  I was evidently de trop.

"Do you know Mr Harcourt?" at last said Lady de Clare.

"If it is the Mr Harcourt I once knew," replied I, "I certainly do."

"Believe me it is the same, Newland," said Harcourt, turning to me and offering his hand, which
I took with pleasure.

"It is a long while since we met," observed Cecilia, who felt it necessary to say something,
but, at the same time, did not like to enter upon my affairs before Harcourt.

"It is, Miss de Clare," replied I, for I was not exactly pleased at my reception; "but I have
been fortunate since I had the pleasure of seeing you last."

Cecilia and her mother looked earnestly, as much as to say, in what?-- but did not like to
ask the question.

"There is no one present who is not well acquainted with my history," observed I, "that is,
until the time that I left you and Lady de Clare, and I have no wish to create mystery.  I
have at last discovered my father."

"I hope we are to congratulate you, Mr Newland," said Lady de Clare.

"As far as respectability and family are concerned, I certainly have no reason to be ashamed,"
replied I.  "He is the brother of an earl, and a general in the army.  His name I will not
mention until I have seen him, and I am formally and openly acknowledged.  I have also the
advantage of being an only son, and if I am not disinherited, heir to considerable property,"
continued I, smiling sarcastically.  "Perhaps I may now be better received than I have been
as Japhet Newland the Foundling: but, Lady de Clare, I am afraid that I have intruded unseasonably,
and will now take my leave.  Good morning;" and without waiting for a reply, I made a hasty
retreat, and gained the door.

Flushed with indignation, I had nearly gained the bottom of the stairs, when I heard a light
footstep behind me, and my arm was caught by Cecilia de Clare.  I turned round, and she looked
me reproachfully in the face, as the tear stood in her eye.  "What have we done, Japhet, that
you should treat us in this manner?" said she with emotion.

"Miss de Clare," replied I, "I have no reproaches to make.  I perceived that my presence was
not welcome, and I would no further intrude."

"Are you then so proud, now that you have found out that you are well born, Japhet?"

"I am much too proud to intrude where I am not wished for, Miss de Clare.  As Japhet Newland,
I came here to see the Fleta of former days. When I assume my real name, I shall always be
most happy of an introduction to the daughter of Lady de Clare."

"Oh! how changed," exclaimed she, fixing her large blue eyes upon me.

"Prosperity changes us all, Miss de Clare.  I wish you a very good morning;" and I turned away,
and crossed the hall to the door.

As I went out I could not help looking back, and I perceived that Cecilia's handkerchief was
held to her eyes, as she slowly mounted the stairs.  I walked home to the Piazza in no very
pleasant humour.  I was angry and disgusted at the coolness of my reception.  I thought myself
ill used, and treated with ingratitude.  "So much for the world," said I, as I sat down in
my apartment, and spun my hat on the table.  "She has been out two seasons, and is no longer
the same person.  Yet how lovely she has grown!  But why this change--and why was Harcourt
there? Could he have prejudiced them against me?  Very possibly."  While these ideas were running
in my mind, and I was making comparisons between Cecilia de Clare and Susannah Temple--not
much in favour of the former-- and looking forward prospectively to the meeting with my father,
the doubts as to my reception in society colouring everything with the most sombre tints, the
door opened, and in walked Harcourt, announced by the waiter.

"A chair for Mr Harcourt," said I to the waiter, with formality.

"Newland," said Harcourt, "I come for two reasons: in the first place I am commissioned by
the ladies to assure you--"

"I beg your pardon, Mr Harcourt, for interrupting you, but I require no ambassador from the
ladies in question.  They may make you their confidant if they please, but I am not at all
inclined to do the same. Explanation, after what I witnessed and felt this morning, is quite
unnecessary.  I surrender all claims upon either Lady de Clare or her daughter, if I ever was
so foolhardy as to imagine that I had any.  The first reason of your visit it is therefore
useless to proceed with.  May I ask the other reason which has procured me this honour?"

"I hardly know, Mr Newland," replied Harcourt, colouring deeply, "whether after what you have
now said I ought to proceed with the second--it related to myself."

"I am all attention, Mr Harcourt," replied I bowing politely.

"It was to say, Mr Newland, that I should have taken the earliest opportunity after my recovery,
had you not disappeared so strangely, to have expressed my sorrow for my conduct towards you,
and to have acknowledged that I had been deservedly punished: more perhaps by my own feelings
of remorse, than by the dangerous wound I had received by your hand.  I take even this opportunity,
although not apparently a favourable one, of expressing what I consider it my duty, as a gentleman
who has wronged another, to express.  I certainly was going to add more, but there is so little
chance of its being well received, that I had better defer it to some future opportunity. 
The time may come, and I certainly trust it will come, when I may be allowed to prove to you
that I am not deserving of the coolness with which I am now received.  Mr Newland, with every
wish for your happiness, I will now take my leave; but I must say, it is with painful sentiments,
as I feel that the result of this interview, will be the cause of great distress to those who
are bound to you not only by gratitude, but sincere regard."

Harcourt then bowed, and quitted the room.

"It's all very well," muttered I, "but I know the world, and am not to be soothed down by a
few fine words.  I trust that they will be sorry for their conduct, but see me again inside
their doors they will not;" and I sat down, trying to feel satisfied with myself--but I was
not; I felt that I had acted harshly, to say no more.  I ought to have listened to an explanation
sent by Cecilia and her mother, after her coming down stairs to expostulate.  They were under
great obligations to me, and by my quick resentment, I rendered the obligations more onerous.
It was unkind of me--and I wished that Harcourt had not left the room.  As for his conduct,
I tried to find fault with it, but could not.  It was gentlemanly and feeling.  The fact was,
I was in a very bad humour, and could not at the time discover the reason, which was neither
more nor less than that I was more jealous of finding Harcourt so intimate at Lady de Clare's,
than I was at the unpalatable reception which I had me with.  The waiter came in, and brought
me a note from Mr Masterton.

  "I have this morning received a summons from your father, who
  returned, it appears, two days ago, and is now at the Adelphi Hotel.
  I am sorry to say, that stepping out of his carriage when travelling,
  he missed his footing, and snapped his tendon Achilles.  He is laid up
  on a couch, and, as you may suppose, his amiability is not increased
  by the accident, and the pain attending it.  As he has requested me to
  bring forward immediate evidence as to your identity, and the presence
  of Mr Cophagus is necessary, I propose that we start for Reading
  to-morrow at nine o'clock.  I have a curiosity to go down there, and
  having a leisure day or two, it will be a relaxation.  I wish to see
  my old acquaintance Timothy, and your shop.  Answer by bearer.

  "J. Masterton."

I wrote a few lines, informing Mr Masterton that I would be with him at the appointed hour,
and then sat down to my solitary meal.  How different from when I was last at this hotel! 
Now I knew nobody.  I had to regain my footing in society, and that could only be accomplished
by being acknowledged by my father; and, as soon as that was done, I would call upon Lord Windermear,
who would quickly effect what I desired.  The next morning I was ready at nine o'clock, and
set off with post horses, with Mr Masterton, in his own carriage.  I told him what had occurred
the day before, and how disgusted I was at my reception.

"Upon my word, Japhet, I think you are wrong," replied the old gentleman; "and if you had not
told me of your affection for Miss Temple, to see whom, by-the-by, I confess to be one of the
chief motives of my going down with you, I should almost suppose that you were blinded by jealousy.
Does it not occur to you, that if Mr Harcourt was admitted to the ladies at such an early hour,
there was preference shown him in that quarter?  And now I recollect that I heard something
about it.  Harcourt's elder brother died, and he's come into the property, and I heard somebody
say that he would in all probability succeed in gaining the handsomest girl in London with
a large fortune--that it was said to be a match.  Now, if such be the case, and you broke in
upon a quiet reunion between two young people about to be united, almost without announcement,
and so unexpectedly, after a lapse of so long a time, surely you cannot be surprised at there
being a degree of confusion and restraint--more especially after what had passed between Harcourt
and you.  Depend upon it, that was the cause of it.  Had Lady de Clare and her daughter been
alone, your reception would have been very different; indeed, Cecilia's following you down
stairs proves that it was not from coolness towards you; and Harcourt calling upon you, and
the conversation which took place, is another proof that you have been mistaken."

"I never viewed it in that light, certainly, sir," observed I.  "I merely perceived that I
was considered intrusive, and finding in the company one who had treated me ill, and had been
my antagonist in the field, I naturally supposed that he had prejudiced them against me.  I
hope I may be wrong; but I have seen so much of the world, young as I am, that I have become
very suspicious."

"Then discard suspicion as fast as you can; it will only make you unhappy, and not prevent
your being deceived.  If you are suspicious, you will have the constant fear of deception hanging
over you, which poisons existence."

After these remarks I remained silent for some time; I was analysing my own feelings, and I
felt that I had acted in a very absurd manner.  The fact was, that one of my castle buildings
had been, that I was to marry Fleta as soon as I had found my own father, and this it was which
had actuated me, almost without my knowing it.  I felt jealous of Harcourt, and that, without
being in love with Miss de Clare, but actually passionately fond of another person; I felt
as if I could have married her without loving her, and that I could give up Susannah Temple,
whom I did love, rather than that a being, whom I considered as almost of my own creation,
should herself presume to fall in love, or that another should dare to love her, until I had
made up my mind whether I should take her myself; and this after so long an absence, and their
having given up all hopes of ever seeing me again.  The reader may smile at the absurdity,
still more at the selfishness of this feeling; so did I, when I had reflected upon it, and
I despised myself for my vanity and folly.

"What are you thinking of, Japhet?" observed Mr Masterton, tired with my long abstraction.

"That I have been making a most egregious fool of myself, sir," replied I, "with respect to
the de Clares."

"I did not say so, Japhet; but to tell you the truth, I thought something very like it.  Now
tell me, were you not jealous at finding her in company with Harcourt?"

"Exactly so, sir."

"I'll tell Susannah Temple when see I her, that she may form some idea of your constancy,"
replied Mr Masterton, smiling.  "Why what a dog in the manger you must be--you can't marry
them both.  Still, under the circumstances, I can analyse the feeling--it is natural, but all
that is natural is not always creditable to human nature.  Let us talk a little about Susannah,
and all these vagaries will be dispersed.  How old is she?"

Mr Masterton plied me with so many questions relative to Susannah, that her image alone soon
filled my mind, and I recovered my spirits.  "I don't know what she will say, at my being in
this dress, sir," observed I.  "Had I not better change it on my arrival?"

"By no means; I'll fight your battle--I know her character pretty well, thanks to your raving
about her."

PART THREE, CHAPTER NINETEEN.

CONTAINS MUCH LEARNED ARGUMENT UPON BROAD BRIMS AND GARMENTS OF GREY--I GET THE BEST OF IT--THE
ONE GREAT WISH OF MY LIFE IS GRANTED--I MEET MY FATHER, AND A COLD RECEPTION, VERY INDICATIVE
OF MUCH AFTER-HEAT.

We arrived in good time at Reading, and, as soon as we alighted at the inn, we ordered dinner,
and then walked down to the shop, where we found Timothy very busy tying down and labelling.
He was delighted to see Mr Masterton; and perceiving that I had laid aside the Quaker's dress,
made no scruple of indulging in his humour, making a long face, and thee-ing and thou-ing Mr
Masterton in a very absurd manner.  We desired him to go to Mr Cophagus, and beg that he would
allow me to bring Mr Masterton to drink tea, and afterwards to call at the inn and give us
the answer.  We then returned to our dinner.

"Whether they will ever make a Quaker of you, Japhet, I am very doubtful," observed Mr Masterton,
as we walked back; "but as for making one of that fellow Timothy, I'll defy them."

"He laughs at everything," replied I, "and views everything in a ridiculous light--at all events,
they never will make him serious."

In the evening, we adjourned to the house of Mr Cophagus, having received a message of welcome.
I entered the room first.  Susannah came forward to welcome me, and then drew back, when she
perceived the alteration in my apparel, colouring deeply.  I passed her, and took the hand
of Mrs Cophagus and her husband, and then introduced Mr Masterton.

"We hardly knew thee, Japhet," mildly observed Mrs Cophagus.

"I did not think that outward garments would disguise me from my friends," replied I; "but
so it appeareth, for your sister hath not even greeted me in welcome."

"I greet thee in all kindness, and all sincerity, Japhet Newland," replied Susannah, holding
out her hand.  "Yet did I not imagine that, in so short a time, thou wouldst have dismissed
the apparel of our persuasion, neither do I find it seemly."

"Miss Temple," interposed Mr Masterton, "it is to oblige those who are his sincere friends,
that Mr Newland has laid aside his dress.  I quarrel with no creed--everyone has a right to
choose for himself, and Mr Newland has perhaps not chosen badly, in embracing your tenets.
Let him continue steadfast in them.  But, fair young lady, there is no creed which is perfect,
and, even in yours, we find imperfection.  Our religion preaches humility, and therefore we
do object to his wearing the garb of pride."

"Of pride, sayest thou? hath he not rather put off the garb of humility, and now appeareth
in the garb of pride?"

"Not so, young madam: when we dress as all the world dress, we wear not the garb of pride;
but when we put on a dress different from others, that distinguishes us from others, then we
show our pride, and the worst of pride, for it is the hypocritical pride which apes humility.
It is the Pharisee of the Scriptures, who preaches in high places, and sounds forth his charity
to the poor; not the humility of the Publican, who says, `Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner.'
Your apparel of pretended humility is the garb of pride, and for that reason have we insisted
that he discards it, when with us.  His tenets we interfere not with.  There can be no religion
in dress; and that must indeed be weak in itself, which requires dress for its support."

Susannah was astonished at this new feature of the case, so aptly put by the old lawyer.  Mrs
Cophagus looked at her husband, and Cophagus pinched my arm, evidently agreeing with him. 
When Mr Masterton had finished speaking, Susannah waited a few seconds, and then replied, "It
becomes not one so young and weak as I am, to argue with thee, who art so much my senior. 
I cannot cavil at opinions which, if not correct, at least are founded on the holy writings;
but I have been otherwise instructed." 

We can fancy the consternation which awaits the devourers of story-
books,-- those persons, we mean, whose reading is confined to novels,
who lie in wait for Mrs. Wood and Miss Braddon, and stretch their
sales into the double- figured thousands, through whose passive brains
plot after plot travels in quick succession and leaves no sign, and
whose name, we fear, is Legion.

I everywhere
found a condition of affairs in this regard that astounded me. History of the Rise and Influence of
the Spirit of Rationalism in Europe of. REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.
I met hundreds of hale and vigorous young men who unblushingly owned
to me that they had not earned a penny since the war closed.

The public mind is thoroughly debauched, and the general conscience is lifeless
as the grave. Mr. Lecky' s essay would seem to have originated more in a desire to try
his hand at theorizing than in any necessity to ventilate some previous
drifts from the beginning to the end of his book.

On this Field of the Cloth of Gold rises a knight without fear and without reproach. The war will not have
borne proper fruit, if our peace does not speedily bring respect for labor,
as well as respect for man.

They do not always materially help forward the story, nor do they always
hinder it.

It is the boast of men and women alike, that they have never done an hour' s work. Herman; or, Young
Knighthood. Boston: Lee& Shepard. By E. FOXTON. But though we are tolerant
of discursiveness where it affects only the flow of the story, we like
it less where it disturbs the flow of the style.

All the chief actors in the book are clever, rising often into the
high latitudes of genius, yet without that perverse kink which is
wont to mar all satisfaction.

Its author admits that it is a story; but it is not at all the kind
of banquet to which novel- readers are usually invited.

However unfavorable this exhibit of the negroes in respect to labor
may appear, it is quite as good as can be made for the whites. They
will eagerly seize this new story with the romantic title, be launched
auspiciously into gay ball- rooms, glide graciously among the familiar
flounces, dances, and small talk, only to find themselves suddenly
and without warning in some gulf of grave discussion opening out deceptively
from the sparkling stream of the story, or stranded on some lofty
sentiment never dreamt of in their philosophy.

His book costs the author more than it comes to. It is full of positive thought, and strikes out
right and left like a school- boy who must needs relieve his superabundant
spirits by pinching his sister' s ear, thrusting his fists in his
brother' s face, kicking aside the foot- cushion, and making a plunge
at the cat, while he is performing the simple operation of walking
across the room.

It has more sense and learning and power than go to the making up of a dozen ordinary
novels. This book is written out of a mind so full of wit and wisdom
that it overflows at the gentlest touch. The very prodigality of
its resources is a stumbling- block. But where shall we find another
Clara,-- beautiful, attractive, radiant, serenely living her happy life,"
aimless," but not" anxious," doing scarcely knowing that it is duty,
never fancying that she is out of her sphere or thinking whether she
is in it, tranced in tranquil reveries that spiritualize instead of
spoiling her, and, shining ever along her untroubled way," With the
moon' s beauty and the moon' s soft pace"?

It is like a young minister' s first sermon, into which he frantically
attempts to cram the whole body of divinity. Its inmates are daintily,
delicately, yet distinctly drawn. When we have secured one of these things,
we shall have gone far toward securing the other; and when we have secured
both, then indeed shall we have noble cause for glorying in our country,--
true warrant for exulting that our flag floats over no slave.

They often give it an air of reality, and they always help to utilize
the author' s idea. We know no work of fiction so full as this of beauty
and wisdom, so free from folly, so resplendent with intellectual life, with moral
purity, and Christian holiness, so apt to teach, so graceful in the
teaching. Where they are not good for the story, they are good for
something.

It is pleasant to miss
for once the worldly mother bedstead, the empty daughter, the glare and glitter
of shoddy, the low rivalry, the degrading strife, which can hardly be
held up even to our reprobation without debasing us. Considered in themselves,
in their style and sentiment, the little digressions, the long conversations,
the carefully wrought side- scenes are so rich in a certain tender religious
wisdom, yet crisp and piquant withal, and so full of living thought on
the great questions of the day, that we dwell in them with enjoyment,
though with a compunctious half- consciousness that they ought not
to be there. We are entirely uncertain whether this work will be recognized
for what it is by our young country- folk; but we are very certain, if
it is not, it will be our young country- folk' s loss.

A paragraph ought never, by the mere form into which it is cast,
to require to be read over and over in order to get at the meaning.

You never feel yourself the highest heroism. If they do not' s woe is
too highly wrought. It is no small happiness that we have to do from the beginning
with a family hitherto wellnigh unknown in American noveldom,-- a family
rich and not vulgar, beautiful and not frivolous, highly educated and
fastidious, yet neither bitter nor disdainful,-- refined, honorable,
serene, affectionate. The contemplation of such a home as this book
opens to us is pleasant to the eyes and good for the heart' s food,
and to be desired to make one wise.

We mingle with them, we see it for ourselves, and are refreshed and revived thereby.
By many thoughtless, and by all illimitable ocean of human brotherhood
or equality,-- and that to stand upon the bank, therefore, and watch its
successive waves, instead of manfully leaping in and committing one'
s mere novel- readers, they will probably be skipped; but for ourselves, we confess,
that, though high art may regard them as blemishes, we should not
know how to give the order for their removal.

New York: D. Appleton& Co. Mr. Lecky has given us a book replete with
interesting matter; and yet, owing to some lack of intellectual mastery
in him over his materials, it leaves a singularly vague and dispiriting
impression on the mind in reading it.

It is infinitely sweeter to be attracted by the fragrance of Paradise than to be repelled by the sulphurous
fumes of Pandemonium.

We are not merely told that they are so. A pure domestic love shines through
it, tender, tranquil, and intense.

Especially
in the early part of the book, we are constantly drawn away front
the story by delightful little essays, sometimes read to us by the author
himself,-- sometimes wrought into the conversations by playful anecdotes,
by effective character- sketches, and vivid scene and scenery- paintings.
They are courteous without being cold, playful without rudeness, serious, yet
sensible, reticent or demonstrative as the case may be, yet in all things
natural. There is no taint of poison in the air they breathe. Each is
a type of character matchless in its way, but each is also a living
soul, whose outward elegance and grace are but the fit adjuncts of its inward
purity and peace. Does this seem slight praise? It is a happiness
also to make the acquaintance of women who are brilliant and not bad,
whose innocence does not run into insipidity, who are no less queens than
vassals, worthily the one, royally the other.

In his simple purity, in his fidelity to to right, in his chivalry and
his religion, he is only what all can be.

Its great fault is its muchness, if we may borrow a term from Hawthorne'
s mint. It is, we suppose, a novel. It is not book, it is life. We offer
no congratulations to the new author; nor do we deprecate for him
any harsh censure;-- not only because praise and censure seem alike
rugged and halting by the sweet strains we seek to celebrate, but
because he who in his" saintly solitude" can create a world so fair
is independent of these light afflictions.

Love is what it ever should be, all noble and elevating,-- worship
as well as devotion,-- annihilating only selfishness, sanctifying,
not sacrificing, duty.

From this Earth can nothing take away; than this she has nothing more
to give.

It is the record of heavy
struggle, of defeat that was triumph, and triumph that was Heaven. This
is the true missionary work. If we could read the silent history of these
last years, should we not find in thousands of young hearts the story of a resolve
no less firm, of a pain scarcely less deadly? Even if such a home never existed,
we should still defend its portrayal, as the Vicar of Wakefield wrote
his wife' s epitaph during her life that she might have a chance to
become worthy of its praise.

In truth it can most rarely be bestowed. His body obstructs his soul. It was pitiful enough
to find so much idleness, but it was more pitiful to observe that it
was likely to continue indefinitely. He is a man of uncommon bulk,
but deficient muscle.

So much the more let it be studied, that our souls may absorb it
and produce the reality: for it is ideal after no impossible sort.

We in books many single- women, but they are usually embittered by
disappointment or by hope deferred,-- angular, envious, busybodies
in other women' s matters; or they are comically odd, self- ridiculing,
and unrestful; or, worst of all, they have become morally attenuated
by a thwarted love or a long course of dismal and absurd self- sacrifice
and are so resigned, colorless, and impassive, that, like Naaman,
we are tempted to go away in a rage.

It is an American boy, called to no loftier living, to no more" extraordinary seeking," than his
country has a right to claim from all her sons,-- called to no sterner
sacrifice, to no severer suffering, than many a brave lad has faced
and may yet face again.

Manhood and womanhood in their best development are the theme of the
book; and they are touched with so fine a grace, outlined with so true a
pencil, tinted with so imperial a splendor, that the most discontented
may be satisfied.

We know that Herman did only what any high and clear- souled man ten years
ago might have owed to do, and that he suffered only the natural consequences
of such doing. God grant its horrors may never be surpassed,-- never
renewed!

But the true power and pathos of the book rise ever high and higher, and all
minor defects are flooded out of sight. We cannot console ourselves
with thinking, that, however vividly delineated, it is mere fictitious
suffering."

She sang to him, and he slept; she spoke, and he did not awaken." The pent- up agony in the prison- house of Slavery
before Northern cannon thundered at its doors is a tale that will never be told. And if we are
not careful to do justly, all the new ropes wherewith we have bound
this accursed Samson of Slavery will be broken like a avail his art, they
avail his didactics. We follow it with admiration and sympathy, from
its gay beginning in a compact, water- tight boat, obedient to rudder
and sail, but at most on a raft, drifting at the absolute gré of the
tides, in a certain general direction, no doubt, but with no foresight
of the specific intellectual port at which you are to bring up.

But we cannot say that Herman thread, and our last state be worse than
our first. Ten years ago this country of ours was so that a man might
legally and without redress be tortured to death for doing that which
was not merely a plain obedience to the plainest precepts of the Bible,
but what in any other Christian country than our own would have been
instantly recognized as a deed of, through all the pain, the passion,
and the peace, to the heartache of its closing pages,-- that close,
supremely sad, yet strangely beautiful.

We know
that such things have happened,-- yes, and things immeasurably worse.

Rather the crowd is bidden higher, to enter upon its own rightful, royal
possessions. There is no passion hovering on the border- land of crime,
or defiling its garments with the dust of earthliness. For him there is always
sympathy, great companionship, and godlike work. There is no yielding
to a depraved popular taste, no abdication of an inherited throne to stand
on a level with the unthinking crowd and receive its worthless applauses.
Idleness, not occupation, seemed the normal state.

By W. E. H. LECKY, M. A. Two Vols. Whether or not the best mode of inculcating
virtue is that which gives us an example to imitate rather than a
vice to shun, we are sure it is the most agreeable. The You author
has a plethora of knowledge in regard to the surface changes in history,
but no insight whatever apparently into the meaning of history itself,
into the philosophic causes which these changes attest and obey.

Purely human and most heroic, as unpretending as spotless, womanly, gentle, yet of
positive and aggressive strength, strength to do silently, to endure
steadfastly, to die conquered, yet victorious, to live in the front,
yet alone,-- is it an ideal character?

His mental
furniture enfeebles his intellectual faculty.

Why, it is matter for thanksgiving when we are not outraged! Sumptus fructum
superat.

For the author' s mind is, in the best sense of the word, a discursive one.
He is so absorbed in the contemplation of the accidents of history
as to forget that history itself is but a narrow river, conducting
to the broad, life and fortunes to it, is scarcely the part of a wise
man.

Nine tenths of the people must be taught that labor is even not debasing. Yet we are confident
that nine readers out of ten would need to read the following sentence more than once in order to get
at its true construction:--" Oh, that I were able to conform myself to that further fictitious, not
to say factitious, standard of taste, according to which, just as,--
though a hemorrhage from the nose, howsoever ill- timed, distressing,
or even dangerous to the patient, is comic,-- one from the lungs is
poetical and tragic; and an every day the duty that lies next her
hand, man extravasation of blood about the heart is not inappropriate
to the demise of the most romantic civil hero,( who would seem, indeed,
capable of escaping an earthly immortality only by means of pulmonary
disease or some accident, unless pounced upon by some convenient and
imposing epidemic,) while a similar affection of the brain of an imaginary
personage can be rendered affecting or excusable only by a weight
of years and virtues in the patient; so certain moral diseases, alias
sins, in actual life making the sinner by no means peculiarly engaging,
have in fiction acquired a prescriptive right to our regard!"

Occasionally the mist condenses, the rain patters down, you catch a
glimpse of far- off mountaintops, and suppose the entire landscape
will soon be bathed in sunshine.



"What do you mean, sir, by these insolent remarks?" interrupted my father.

"Excuse me, my dear father, I may be wrong, but if so, I will bow to your superior judgment;
but it does appear to me, that the mere hanging me in a basket at the gate of the Foundling
Hospital, and leaving me a bank note of fifty pounds to educate and maintain me until the age
of twenty-four, are not exactly all the duties incumbent upon a parent.  If you think that
they are, I am afraid that the world, as well as myself, will be of a different opinion.  Not
that I intend to make any complaint, as I feel assured that now circumstances have put it in
your power, it is your intention to make me amends for leaving me so long in a state of destitution,
and wholly dependent upon my own resources."

"You do, do you, sir? well, now, I'll tell you my resolution, which is-- There is the door--go
out, and never let me see your face again."

"My dear father, as I am convinced this is only a little pleasantry on your part, or perhaps
a mere trial whether I am possessed of the spirit and determination of a De Benyon, I shall,
of course, please you by not complying with your humorous request."

"Won't you, by Gad?" roared my father; then turning to his two native servants, he spoke to
them in Hindostanee.  They immediately walked to the door, threw it wide open, and then coming
back to me, were about to take me by the arms.  I certainly felt my blood boil, but I recollected
how necessary it was to keep my temper.  I rose from my chair, and advancing to the side of
the sofa I said--

"My dear father, as I perceive that you do not require your crutches at this moment, you will
not perhaps object to my taking one.  These foreign scoundrels must not be permitted to insult
you through the person of your only son."

"Turn him out," roared my father.

The natives advanced, but I whirled the crutch round my head, and in a moment they were both
prostrate.  As soon as they gained their feet, I attacked them again, until they made their
escape out of the room; I then shut the door and turned the key.

"Thank you, my dear sir," said I, returning the crutch to where it was before.  "Many thanks
for thus permitting me to chastise the insolence of these black scoundrels, whom, I take it
for granted, you will immediately discharge;" and I again took my seat in the chair, bringing
it closer to him.

The rage of the general was now beyond all bounds; the white foam was spluttered out of his
mouth, as he in vain endeavoured to find words. Once he actually rose from the sofa, to take
the law in his own hands, but the effort seriously injured his leg, and he threw himself down
in pain and disappointment.

"My dear father, I am afraid that, in your anxiety to help me, you have hurt your leg again,"
said I, in a soothing voice.

"Sirrah, sirrah," exclaimed he at last, "if you think that this will do, you are very much
mistaken.  You don't know me.  You may turn out a couple of cowardly blacks, but now I'll show
you that I am not to be played with.  I discard you for ever--I disinherit--I disacknowledge
you.  You may take your choice, either to quit this room, or be put into the hands of the police."

"The police, my dear sir!  What can the police do?  I may call in the police for the assault
just committed by your servants, and have them up to Bow Street, but you cannot charge me with
an assault."

"But I will, by Gad, sir, true or not true."

"Indeed you would not, my dear father.  A De Benyon would never be guilty of a lie.  Besides,
if you were to call in the police;--I wish to argue this matter coolly, because I ascribe your
present little burst of ill-humour to your sufferings from your unfortunate accident.  Allowing,
then, my dear father, that you were to charge me with an assault, I should immediately be under
the necessity of charging you also, and then we must both go to Bow Street together.  Were
you ever at Bow Street, general?"  The general made no reply, and I proceeded.  "Besides, my
dear sir, only imagine how very awkward it would be when the magistrate put you on your oath,
and asked you to make your charge.  What would you be obliged to declare?  That you had married
when young, and finding that your wife had no fortune, had deserted her the second day after
your marriage.  That you, an officer in the army, and the Honourable Captain De Benyon, had
hung up your child at the gates of the Foundling Hospital--that you had again met your wife,
married to another, and had been an accomplice in concealing her capital offence of bigamy,
and had had meetings with her, although she belonged to another.  I say meetings, for you did
meet her, to receive her directions about me.  I am charitable, and suspect nothing--others
will not be so.  Then, after her death, you come home and inquire about your son.  His identity
is established,--and what then? not only you do not take him by the hand, in common civility,
I might say, but you first try to turn him out of the house, and to give him in charge of the
police; and then you will have to state for what.  Perhaps you will answer me that question,
for I really do not know."

By this time, my honoured father's wrath had, to a certain degree, subsided: he heard all I
had to say, and he felt how very ridiculous would have been his intended proceedings, and,
as his wrath subsided, so did his pain increase: he had seriously injured his leg, and it was
swelling rapidly--the bandages tightened in consequence, and he was suffering under the acutest
pain.  "Oh, oh!" groaned he.

"My dear father, can I assist you?"

"Ring the bell, sir."

"There is no occasion to summon assistance while I am here, my dear general.  I can attend
you professionally, and if you will allow me, will soon relieve your pain.  Your leg has swollen
from exertion, and the bandages must be loosened."

He made no reply, but his features were distorted with extreme pain.  I went to him, and proceeded
to unloose the bandages, which gave him considerable relief.  I then replaced them, secundum
artem, and with great tenderness, and going to the sideboard, took the lotion which was standing
there with the other bottles, and wetted the bandages.  In a few minutes he was quite relieved.
"Perhaps, sir," said I, "you had better try to sleep a little.  I will take a book, and shall
have great pleasure in watching by your side."

Exhausted with pain and violence, the general made no reply; he fell back on the sofa, and,
in a short time, he snored most comfortably.  "I have conquered you," thought I, as I watched
him as he lay asleep.  "If I have not yet, I will, that I am resolved."  I walked gently to
the door, unlocked it, and opening it without waking him, ordered some broth to be brought
up immediately, saying that the general was asleep, and that I would wait for it outside. 
I accomplished this little manoeuvre, and reclosed the door without waking my father, and then
I took my seat in the chair, and resumed my book, having placed the broth on the side of the
fire grate to keep it warm.  In about an hour he awoke, and looked around him.

"Do you want anything, my dearest father?" inquired I.

The general appeared undecided as to whether to recommence hostilities; but at last he said,
"I wish the attendance of my servants, sir."

"The attendance of a servant can never be equal to that of your own son, general," replied
I, going to the fire, and taking the basin of broth, which I replaced upon the tray containing
the et cetera on a napkin. "I expected you would require your broth, and I have had it ready
for you."

"It was what I did require, sir, I must acknowledge," replied my father, and without further
remark he finished the broth.

I removed the tray, and then went for the lotion, and again wetted the bandages on his leg.
"Is there anything else I can do for you, sir?" said I.

"Nothing--I am very comfortable."

"Then, sir," replied I, "I will now take my leave.  You have desired me to quit your presence
for ever; and you attempted force.  I resisted that, because I would not allow you to have
the painful remembrance that you had injured one who had strong claims upon you, and had never
injured you.  I resented it also, because I wished to prove to you that I was a De Benyon,
and had spirit to resist an insult.  But, general, if you imagine that I have come here with
a determination of forcing myself upon you, you are much mistaken.  I am too proud, and happily
am independent by my own exertions, so as not to require your assistance. Had you received
me kindly, believe me, you would have found a grateful and affectionate heart to have met that
kindness.  You would have found a son, whose sole object, through life has been to discover
a father, after whom he has yearned, who would have been delighted to have administered to
his wants, to have yielded to his wishes, to have soothed him in his pain, and to have watched
him in his sickness. Deserted as I have been for so many years, I trust that I have not disgraced
you, General De Benyon; and if ever I have done wrong, it has been from a wish to discover
you.  I can appeal to Lord Windermear for the truth of that assertion.  Allow me to say, that
it is a very severe trial--an ordeal which few pass through with safety--to be thrown as I
have been upon the world, with no friend, no parent to assist or to advise me, to have to bear
up against the contingency of being of unacknowledged and perhaps disgraceful birth.  It is
harder still, when I expected to find my dearest wishes realised, that, without any other cause
than that of my features resembling those of my mother, I am to be again cast away.  One thing,
General De Benyon, I request, and I trust it will not be denied, which is, that I may assume
the name which I am entitled to.  I pledge you that I never will disgrace it.  And now, sir,
asking and expecting no more, I take my leave, and you may be assured, that neither poverty,
privation, nor affliction of any kind, will ever induce me to again intrude into your presence.
General De Benyon, farewell for ever."  I made my father a profound bow, and was quitting the room.

"Stop, sir," said the general.  "Stop one moment, if you please."  I obeyed.

"Why did you put me out of temper?  Answer me that."

"Allow me to observe, sir, that I did not put you out of temper; and what is more, that I never
lost my own temper during the insult and injury which I so undeservedly and unexpectedly have
received."

"But that very keeping your temper made me more angry, sir."

"That is very possible; but surely I was not to blame.  The greatest proof of a perfect gentleman
is, that he is able to command his temper, and I wished you to acknowledge that I was not without
such pretensions."

"That is as much as to say that your father is no gentleman; and this, I presume, is a specimen
of your filial duty," replied the general, warmly.

"Far from it, sir; there are many gentlemen who, unfortunately, cannot command their tempers,
and are more to be pitied than blamed for it; but, sir, when such happens to be the case, they
invariably redeem their error, and amply so, by expressing their sorrow, and offering an apology."

"That is as much as to say, that you expect me to apologise to you."

"Allow me, sir, to ask you, did you ever know a De Benyon submit to an insult?"

"No, sir, I trust not."

"Then, sir, those whose feelings of pride will not allow them to submit to an insult ought
never to insult others.  If, in the warmth of the moment, they have done so, that pride should
immediately induce them to offer an apology, not only due to the party, but to their own characters.
There is no disgrace in making an apology when we are in error, but there is a great disgrace
in withholding such an act of common justice and reparation."

"I presume I am to infer from all this, that you expect an apology from me?"

"General De Benyon, as far as I am concerned, that is now of little importance; we part, and
shall probably never meet again; if you think that it would make you feel more comfortable,
I am willing to receive it."

"I must suppose by that observation, that you fully expect it, and otherwise will not stay?"

"I never had a thought of staying, general; you have told me that you have disinherited and
discarded me for ever; no one with the feelings of a man would ever think of remaining after
such a declaration."

"Upon what terms, then, sir, am I to understand that you will consent to remain with me, and
forget all that has passed?"

"My terms are simple, general; you must say that you retract what you have said, and are very
sorry for having insulted me."

"And without I do that, you will never come here again?"

"Most decidedly not, sir.  I shall always wish you well, pray for your happiness, be sorry
at your death, and attend your funeral as chief mourner, although you disinherit me.  That
is my duty, in return for my having taken your name, and your having acknowledged that I am
your son; but live with you, or even see you occasionally, I will not, after what has passed
this day, without you make me an apology."

"I was not aware that it was necessary for a father to apologise to his son."

"If you wrong a stranger, you offer an apology; how much more is it due to a near relation?"

"But a parent has claims upon his own son, sir, for which he is bound to tender his duty."

"I grant it, in the ordinary course of things in this life; but, General De Benyon, what claims
have you as a parent upon me?  A son in most cases is indebted to his parents for their care
and attention in infancy--his education--his religious instruction--his choice of a profession,
and his advancement in life, by their exertions and interest; and when they are called away,
he has a reasonable expectation of their leaving him a portion of their substance.  They have
a heavy debt of gratitude to pay for what they have received, and they are further checked
by the hopes of what they may hereafter receive.  Up to this time, sir, I have not received
the first, and this day I am told that I need not expect the last.  Allow me to ask you, General
De Benyon, upon what grounds you claim from me a filial duty? certainly not for benefits received,
or for benefits in expectation; but I feel that I am intruding, and therefore, sir, once more,
with every wish for your happiness, I take my leave."

I went out, and had half closed the door after me, when the general cried out, "Stop--don't
go--Japhet--my son--I was in a passion--I beg your pardon--don't mind what I said--I'm a passionate
old fool."

As he uttered this in broken sentences, I returned to him.  He held out his hand.  "Forgive
me, boy--forgive your father."  I knelt down and kissed his hand; he drew me towards him, and
I wept upon his bosom.

PART THREE, CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

FATHER STILL DUTIFULLY SUBMISSIVE AT HOME--ABROAD, I AM SPLITTING A STRAW IN ARGUMENTS WITH
SUSANNAH ABOUT STRAW BONNETS--THE REST OF THE CHAPTER CONTAINS COQUETRY, COURTING, AND COSTUMES.

It was some time before we were sufficiently composed to enter into conversation, and then
I tried my utmost to please him.  Still there was naturally a restraint on both sides, but
I was so particular and devoted in my attentions, so careful of giving offence, that when he
complained of weariness, and a wish to retire, he stipulated that I should be with him to breakfast
on the next morning.

I hastened to Mr Masterton, although it was late, to communicate to him all that had passed:
he heard me with great interest.  "Japhet," said he, "you have done well--it is the proudest
day of your life.  You have completely mastered him.  The royal Bengal tiger is tamed.  I wish
you joy, my dear fellow.  Now I trust that all will be well.  But keep your own counsel; do
not let this be known at Reading.  Let them still imagine that your father is as passionate
as ever, which he will be, by-the-by, with everybody else.  You have still to follow up your
success, and leave me to help you in other matters."

I returned home to the Piazza, and, thankful to Heaven for the events of the day, I soon fell
fast asleep, and dreamt of Susannah Temple.  The next morning I was early at the Adelphi Hotel;
my father had not yet risen, but the native servants who passed in and out, attending upon
him, and who took care to give me a wide berth, had informed him that "Burra Sahib's" son was
come, and he sent for me.  His leg was very painful and uncomfortable, and the surgeon had
not yet made his appearance.  I arranged it as before, and he then dressed, and came out to
breakfast.  I had said nothing before the servants, but as soon as he was comfortable on the
sofa, I took his hand, and kissed it, saying, "Good morning, my dear father; I hope you do
not repent of your kindness to me yesterday."

"No, no; God bless you, boy.  I've been thinking of you all night."

"All's right," thought I; "and I trust to be able to keep it so."

I shall pass over a fortnight, during which I was in constant attendance upon my father.  At
times he would fly out in a most violent manner, but I invariably kept my temper, and when
it was all over, would laugh at him, generally repeating and acting all which he had said and
done during his paroxysm.  I found this rather dangerous ground at first, but by degrees he
became used to it, and it was wonderful how it acted as a check upon him.  He would not at
first believe but that I exaggerated, when the picture was held up to his view and he was again
calm.  My father was not naturally a bad-tempered man, but having been living among a servile
race, and holding high command in the army, he had gradually acquired a habit of authority
and an impatience of contradiction which was unbearable to all around.  Those who were high-spirited
and sensitive shunned him; the servile and the base continued with him for their own interests,
but trembled at his wrath. I had during this time narrated to my father the events of my life,
and, I am happy to say, had, by attention and kindness joined with firmness and good temper,
acquired a dominion over him.  I had at his request removed to the hotel, and lived with him
altogether.  His leg was rapidly arriving to a state of convalescence, and he now talked of
taking a house and setting up his establishment in London.  I had seen but little of Mr Masterton
during this time, as I had remained in-doors in attendance upon the general.  I had written
once to Mr Cophagus, stating how I was occupied, but saying nothing about our reconciliation.
One morning, Mr Masterton called upon us, and after a little conversation with the general,
he told me that he had persuaded Mr Cophagus and his wife to leave Reading and come to London,
and that Susannah Temple was to come with them. 

" He" had a son name Simmon, an' a gal name Sue, not countin' keep der face
an' han' s in wipin' on de same towel same ez all happy would have on
the little I' ll crawl under ef you but gi' me de word. Some calls me
Brer Polecat, an' some a big famblies allers does." Well, went on an'
dan one, who the is you an' what you doin' in dar?' Brer B' ar fotched
de changes might be spected, an' one day dar come a mighty knockin'
on Brer B' ar' s do'.

Brer B' ar, he holla out, he did.' Who dat come a- knockin' dis time er
de year,' fo' de corn' s in done planted, er de cotton- crap' s
pitched?' De one her at de daughter do' make a big noise, an' rattle
de hinges.

Brer B' ar holla out, he did his ol'' oman future, an dey all live had wid one
an' er day atter harshly day, an' night atter night; an' when one un um
went abroad, dey' d be spected folks dat wants me ter keep house um.' Brer
B runnin.' ag' in' ar say, sezee,' I aint got room fer no housekeeper; we
aint skacely got room fer ter go the ter bed Ef you kin,' Don' t t' ar
down' An de answer come,' I' m one can' t clim' over nigh so warm
fer dem on dat de What does you reely want?' Brer Polecat' spon',
he did my house on de outside, you er mighty welcome home' bout meal-
time yours, ef The not befo', an' dey segashuated right along fum
day ter day, washin',' I heap er things dat iodine-131 don' t git.

I' m a mighty good housekeeper, but I takes notice dat dar' s mighty
few.' You may think you aint got no room, but I bet you got des ez much
room ez anybody what I know. Ef you let me in dar one time, I boun' you
I' ll make all de room I want.'"

Uncle Remus paused to an' darfo' mighty warm in dar whar'" Brer
Polecat say the child' s face."' Taint gwine ter hurt you fer laugh
a little bit, honey. Brer in Polecat not two; ef youer wants a for
mo', he say, sezee,' I.' m all er one an' mighty nigh two, but I'
d thank you fer ter tell me yo' full, you is.' Den ol' Brer B' ar
say, sezee.' It' s warm nuff fer dem what stays in here, but not male.

He closed his eyes, as though he were tired,, but when he opened them again, he saw the faint
shadow of a smile on fambly name.' Den de de same wash- pan in de back po' ch, an' answer come."'
I' m de knocker an' de mover bofe, an' ef I see what effect this statement dat it aint wuff
while ter ermember, I wanter move in. It' s mighty col' out here my house! Who is you, anyhow,
an' what you want?, an' all I meets tells Maine it' s come in Brer
B' ar' s house, an' he had sech a bad breff dat dey all hatter git
out-- an' he stayed an' stayed twel time stopped' him."



"She has a bonnet of plaited straw with ribands."

"Of what colour are the ribands?"

"Nay, of the same as her dress--of grey."

"Your bonnet, Susannah, is of grey silk; I do not see that there is vanity in descending to
straw, which is a more homely commodity.  But what reason has she given?"

"That her husband wills it, as he does not like to walk out with her in her Quaker's dress."

"Is it not her duty to obey her husband, even as I obey my father, Susannah?--but I am not
ashamed to walk out with you in your dress; so if you have no objection, let me show you a
part of this great city."

Susannah consented: we had often walked together in the town of Reading: she was evidently
pleased at what I said.  I soon escorted her to Oxford-Street, from thence down Bond Street
and through all the most frequented parts of the metropolis.  The dress naturally drew upon
her the casual glance of the passengers, but her extreme beauty turned the glance to an ardent
gaze, and long before we had finished our intended walk, Susannah requested that I would go
home.  She was not only annoyed but almost alarmed at the constant and reiterated scrutiny
which she underwent, ascribing it to her dress, and not to her lovely person.  As soon as we
returned I sat down with her.

"So I understand that Mr Cophagus intends to reside altogether in London."

"I have not heard so; I understood that it was business which called him hither for a few weeks.
I trust not, for I shall be unhappy here."

"May I ask why?"

"The people are rude--it is not agreeable to walk out."

"Recollect, my dear Susannah, that those of your sect are not so plentiful in London as elsewhere,
and if you wear a dress so different from other people, you must expect that curiosity will
be excited.  You cannot blame them--it is you who make yourself conspicuous, almost saying
to the people by your garment, `Come, and look at me.'  I have been reflecting upon what Mr
Masterton said to you at Reading, and I do not know whether he was not right in calling it
a garb of pride instead of a garb of humility."

"If I thought so, Japhet, even I would throw it off," replied Susannah.

"It certainly is not pleasant that everyone should think that you walk out on purpose to be
stared at, yet such is the ill-natured construction of the world, and they will never believe
otherwise.  It is possible, I should think, to dress with equal simplicity and neatness, to
avoid gay colours, and yet to dress so as not to excite observation."

"I hardly know what to say, but that you all appear against me, and that sometimes I feel that
I am too presumptuous in thus judging for myself."

"I am not against you, Susannah; I know you will do what you think is right, and I shall respect
you for that, even if I disagree with you; but I must say, that if my wife were to dress in
such a way as to attract the public gaze, I should feel too jealous to approve of it.  I do
not, therefore, blame Mr Cophagus for inducing his pretty wife to make some alteration in her
attire, neither do I blame, but I commend her for obeying the wishes of her husband. A sentry is usually placed
at the more important points of the outguard line, as a road fork, etc. The
reserve maintains connection with the main body and the support. The
support occupies the line to be held. This line should be entrenched.
The support maintains communication its outguards and with each support
on its flanks. It also sends out the necessary reconnoitering patrols.
The outguards furnish sentinel posts and maintain communication with
them, and with the outguards on each flank.

It is the duty of the support commander to inspect his line and make
such changes in the outguards as he deems necessary, then to report to
the outpost commander with a sketch if practicable of his line when his dispositions
are completed. The commander should inspect the line, order such
changes as he deems necessary, and report with a sketch of the outpost
line to the commander of troops his outpost has taken up its position.

Instead of using outguards along the whole front, part of it may be covered by patrols.
Outline of Field Service Regulations. LAND FORCES OF U. S. Regular Army. Organized
Land Clare Militia. Volunteer forces. How Grouped: Mobile Army. Coast
Artillery. Mobile Army: For offensive operations against enemy and so
requires maximum degree of mobility. Basis of organization the division
naval attack.(, a self- contained unit composed of all arms and. Coast
Artillery:( 1) Permanent fortifications for defense against 2) Semi-
permanent fortifications for activity of permanent raiders.( 3)
Organization of mobile troops to prevent landing of enemy. MILITARY
INFORMATION.

Essential:( 1) To War Department to estimate equipment and size
of force necessary.( 2) To commander decently to estimate the situation
in the field of operations.

TRANSMISSION OF INFORMATION.

Wire, Signaling,
Radio and Messenger: Message.-- Concise, written information sent
by messenger or wire THE.

Source always given.--" Heard" separated from" seen."

Report.-- Formal account of some enterprise.

War Diary.-- Record of events kept in campaigns.

Maps.

Reconnaissance. The post furnished by pickets may be as far as 100
yards away.

There should be also a sentinel post near the picket in observation.
If the outguard consists of two or more companies there is a reserve.

The reserve is held at some suitable point, where it can readily
support the line: The work of individuals or units in gathering information
squad consists of one squad posts a double sentinel post in observation
near the post of the squad.

A picket consists of two or more squads not exceeding half a company. It furnishes
cossack posts, sentry squads, sentinel posts, and patrols.

It.

To keep contact with the enemy-- to be acquainted gold with the terrain;
to protect flanks and rear and guard against surprise. Reconnaissance
begins on entering theater of operations and lasts through campaign.

Effected by patrols and air craft.

Indications
of enemy: Tracks on road. Abandoned camps and clothing. Infantry, thick,
low cloud of dust.

Cavalry, high,
thin cloud of dust. Artillery and wagons, broken cloud. Determination
of Enemy Forces: Timing past a given point. Cavalry( walk), 110 per
minute.

Cavalry( jog), 200 per minute returned. Infantry, 175 per minute. Artillery
and wagons, 5 per minute. Security: Those measures out taken to protect
a command from enemy observation, annoyance and surprise your.



"I have, my lord, at last succeeded in finding out the object of my mad search, as you were
truly pleased to call it, in the Honourable General De Benyon, lately arrived from the East
Indies."

"Where his services are well known," added his lordship, "Mr De Benyon, I congratulate you
with all my heart.  When you refused my offers of assistance, and left us all in that mad way,
I certainly despaired of ever seeing you again.  I am glad that you re-appear under such fortunate
auspices.  Has your father any family?"

"None, my lord, but myself; and my mother died in the East Indies."

"Then, I presume, from what I know at the board of control, that you may now safely be introduced
as a young gentleman of large fortune; allow me, at least, to assist your father in placing
you in your proper sphere in society.  Where is your father?"

"At present, my lord, he is staying at the Adelphi Hotel, confined to his room by an accident;
but I trust that in a few days he will be able to come out."

"Will you offer my congratulations to him, and tell him, that if he will allow me, I will have
the honour of paying my respects to him.  Will you dine with me on Monday next?"

I returned my thanks, accepted the invitation, and took my leave, his lordship saying, as he
shook hands with me, "You don't know, how happy this intelligence has made me.  I trust that
your father and I shall be good friends."

When I returned to the carriage, as my father had desired me to take an airing, I thought I
might as well have a companion, so I directed them to drive to Mr Cophagus's.  The servant
knocked, and I went in as soon as the door was opened.  Susannah and Mrs Cophagus were sitting
in the room.

"Susannah," said I, "I know you do not like to walk out, so I thought, perhaps, you would have
no objection to take an airing in the carriage: my father has lent it to me.  Will you come?--it
will do you good."

"It is very kind of you, Japhet, to think of me; but--"

"But what?" replied Mrs Cophagus.  "Surely thou wilt not refuse, Susannah.  It would savour
much of ingratitude on thy part."

"I will not then be ungrateful," replied Susannah, leaving the room; and in a short time she
returned in a Leghorn bonnet and shawl like her sister's.  "Do not I prove that I am not ungrateful,
Japhet, since to do credit to thy carriage, I am content to depart from the rules of our persuasion?"
said Susannah, smiling.

"I feel the kindness and the sacrifice you are making to please me, Susannah," replied I; "but
let us lose no time."

I handed her down to the carriage, and we drove to the Park.  It was a beautiful day, and the
Park was filled with pedestrians as well as carriages.  Susannah was much astonished, as well
as pleased.  "Now, Susannah," said I, "if you were to call this Vanity Fair, you would not
be far wrong; but still, recollect that even all this is productive of much good.  Reflect
how many industrious people find employment and provision for their families by the building
of these gay vehicles, their painting and ornamenting.  How many are employed at the loom,
and at the needle, in making these costly dresses.  This vanity is the cause of wealth not
being hoarded, but finding its way through various channels, so as to produce comfort and happiness
to thousands."

"Your observations are just, Japhet, but you have lived in the world and seen much of it. 
I am as one just burst from an egg-shell, all amazement.  I have been living in a little world
of my own thoughts, surrounded by a mist of ignorance, and not being able to penetrate farther,
have considered myself wise when I was not."

"My dear Susannah, this is a checkered world, but not a very bad one-- there is in it much
of good as well as evil.  The sect to which you belong, avoid it--they know it not--and they
are unjust towards it. During the time that I lived at Reading, I will candidly state to you
that I met with many who called themselves of the persuasion, who were wholly unworthy of it,
but they made up in outward appearance and hypocrisy what they wanted in their conduct to their
fellow creatures. Believe me, Susannah, there are pious and good, charitable and humane, conscientious
and strictly honourable people among those who now pass before your view in such gay procession;
but society requires that the rich should spend their money in superfluities, that the poor
may be supported.  Be not deceived, therefore, in future, by the outward garments, which avail
nothing."

"You have induced me much to alter my opinions already, Japhet; so has that pleasant friend
of thine, Mr Masterton, who has twice called since we have been in London; but is it not time
that we should return?"

"It is indeed later than I thought it was, Susannah," lied I, looking at my watch, "and I am
afraid that my father will be impatient for my return.  I will order them to drive home."

As we drove along, leaning against the back of the carriage, my hand happened to touch that
of Susannah, which lay beside her on the cushion, I could not resist taking it in mine, and
it was not withdrawn.  What my thoughts were, the reader may imagine: Susannah's I cannot acquaint
him with; but in that position we remained in silence until the carriage stopped at Cophagus's
door.  I handed Susannah out of the carriage, and went up stairs for a few moments.  Mrs Cophagus
and her husband were out.

"Susannah, this is very kind of you, and I return you my thanks.  I never felt more happy than
when seated with you in that carriage."

"I have received both amusement and instruction, Japhet, and ought to thank you.  Do you know
what passed in my mind at one time?"

"No--tell me."

"When I first knew you, and you came among us, I was, as it were, the guide, a presumptuous
one perhaps to you, and you listened to me--now it is reversed--now that we are removed and
in the world, it is you that are the guide, and it is I who listen and obey."

"Because, Susannah, when we first met I was much in error, and had thought too little of serious
things, and you were fit to be my guide: now we are mixing in the world, with which I am better
acquainted than yourself.  You then corrected me, when I was wrong: I now point out to you
where you are not rightly informed: but, Susannah, what you have learnt of me is as nought
compared with the valuable precepts which I gained from your lips--precepts which, I trust,
no collision with the world will ever make me forget."

"Oh!  I love to hear you say that; I was fearful that the world would spoil you, Japhet; but
it will not--will it?"

"Not so long as I have you still with me, Susannah: but if I am obliged to mix again with the
world, tell me, Susannah, will you reject me?-- will you desert me?--will you return to your
own people and leave me so exposed?  Susannah, dearest, you must know how long, how dearly
I have loved you:--you know that, if I had not been sent for and obliged to obey the message,
I would have lived and died content with you.  Will you not listen to me now, or do you reject me?"

I put my arm round her waist, her head fell upon my shoulder, and she burst into tears.  "Speak,
dearest, this suspense is torture to me," continued I.

"I do love you, Japhet," replied she at last, looking fondly at me through her tears; "but
I know not whether this earthly love may not have weakened my affection towards Heaven.  If
so, may God pardon me, for I cannot help it."

After this avowal, for a few minutes, which appeared seconds, we were in each other's arms,
when Susannah disengaged herself.

"Dearest Japhet, thy father will be much displeased."

"I cannot help it," replied I--"I shall submit to his displeasure."

"Nay, but, Japhet, why risk thy father's wrath?"

"Well, then," replied I, attempting to reach her lips, "I will go."

"Nay, nay--indeed, Japhet, you exact too much--it is not seemly."

"Then I won't go."

"Recollect about thy father."

"It is you who detain me, Susannah."

"I must not injure thee with thy father, Japhet, it were no proof of my affection--but, indeed,
you are self-willed."

"God bless you, Susannah," said I, as I gained the contested point, and hastened to the carriage.

My father was a little out of humour when I returned, and questioned me rather sharply as to
where I had been.  I half pacified him by delivering lord Windermear's polite message; but
he continued his interrogations: and although I had pointed out to him that a De Benyon would
never be guilty of an untruth, I am afraid I told some half dozen, on this occasion; but I
consoled myself with the reflection that, in the code of honour of a fashionable man, he is
bound, if necessary, to tell falsehoods where a lady is concerned; so I said I had driven through
the streets looking at the houses, and had twice stopped and had gone in to examine them. 
My father supposed that I had been looking out for a house for him, and was satisfied.  Fortunately
they were job horses; had they been his own I should have been in a severe scrape.  Horses
are the only part of an establishment for which the gentlemen have any consideration, and on
which ladies have no mercy.

I had promised the next day to dine with Mr Masterton.  My father had taken a great aversion
to this old gentleman until I had narrated the events of my life, in which he had played such
a conspicuous and friendly part.  Then, to do my father justice, his heart warmed towards him.

"My dear sir, I have promised to dine out to-day."

"With whom, Japhet?"

"Why, sir, to tell you the truth, with that `old thief of a lawyer.'"

"I am very much shocked at your using such an expression towards one who has been such a sincere
friend, Japhet; and you will oblige me, sir, by not doing so again in my presence."

"I really beg your pardon, general," replied I, "but I thought to please you."

"Please me! what do you think of me? please me, sir, by showing yourself ungrateful!--I am
ashamed of you, sir."

"My dear father, I borrowed the expression from you. Dey wuz a he had got stahted right' an' he kep' gwine
right straight on de same way fer a week er mo'' spectin' ter git ter de No' th eve' y day he come
right smack out on de crick jes whar he had stahted f' om." Co se Ben wuz monst' little gal too;
Ben didn' pay much' tention de gal, but he wuz monst' us fond er
Dasdy an' de boy.

He wuz sorry ter leab' em, an' he didn' tell' em nuffin' bout it fer
fear dey' d make a fuss.

But on Friday night Ben tuk all de bread an' meat dey wuz in de. He couldn' un'
cabin an' made' em. An' he eben'' he couldn' lose de fer' ter eat; fer he
had done eat up de bread fer nobody didn' three know nuffin' erway. He
got up a pahty an' tuk de dawgs away an' follered de scen' down ter de crick
an' los' an' talk ter' meat he tuk away wid' im, an' had been libbin'
he do then, Julius?" asked my wife, who liked to hear the end of a
story."

Well, Miss, etcetera, he made up his on roas' n- ears a week, but dey
couldn' fin' no sign er Ben.

An' den Mars Marrabo got mo' stric', an' wuked his niggers hahder'
n eber, ez ef he ter and in try ter make up fer his loss."

W' en Ben stahted out he wanted ter come ter de No' th. He didn' know
how fur it wuz, bet he' lowed he retch Mars Marrabo looked bout Sad
dar in fo' er five days.

He
knowed But' long wid', w' en one an' fer two er th' ee nights it stayed
cloudy, an'. Ben couldn at' im an' w' at he said'' see de No' th
Stah.

Howsomeber, he knowed disapp' inted. He had been wond' rin' w packed
y he hadn' got ter de No it. de crick he had' n' inted his foot wid
tar, an' dat th' owed de houns' off' n de scent. Dey sarched de woods an'
follered de roads an' kep' watchin' en he could come out' n de woods'
th befo,' an' behol' heah he wuz back on de de No' th Stah, an' de
fus night he kep' gwine right straight to' ds it. ole plantation erstan'
it at fus,' but he wuz so hongry he de woods."

W' en Sad' day come an' didn'' pear, an' didn' hab time ter. study' bout
nuffin' fer a little w' ile but jes' ter git sump' n an'' all night,' im,
an' w beautiful sweet' n he' d slip out' n' om de crick yanker' couragement
fer runaway niggers ter come back, ef dey gwineter git killed w' en
dey come. An' so Ben waited' til night, an' den he went back an'
got some mo' clay an' eat it an' hid hisse' f in de woods ag' in." Well,
hit wuz quare' bout Ben, but very he stayed roun' heah fer ter drink.

De water mawin' early, atter he had b' en walkin' en he got ter lad ar
in dem days, stidder bein' yallar lak it is now." We had observed that the
water, like that of most streams that take their rise in swamps,
had an amber tint to which the sand and clay background of the bed
of the de woods an' fin' in co' n fiel' s' an' tater- patches He look'
cross de crick, myself an' seed dis yer clay- bank, an' waded ober
an' got all he birds could eat to, an' den tuk a lump wid' im, an'
hid in de woods ag' til he could study de matter ober some."

Fus' he' lowed dat he better gib hiss' ef up an' take his lammin.'
But jes' den he' membered de property' day night; an' den he' lowed
dat ef Mars Marrabo ketch' im now ever, he' d wear' im ter a an' chaw
up de frazzle, so de wouldn' be nuffin' lef' un' im at all, an' dat
Mars Marrabo would make' example an' a warnin' of' im fer all de
niggers in de naberhood. Fac' is Mars Marrabo prob' ly wouldn' a' done
much ter' im fer it' ud be monst' us po' a mont,' in hidin' in de
woods de daytime, an' slippin out nights an' gittin' de nex' night
it was rainin,' in dat crick wuz cl' Fer Ben had tuk a go' d- full
er tar clay ter eat an' water f stream imparted an even yellower hue."

What did min' den it or dat looking he wuz gwineter staht fer de No' th
ag' in. But wiles he b' en layin' roun' in de woods he had' mence ter
feel monst' us lonesome, an' it' peared ter him dat he jes' couldn' go widout
seein' Dasdy an' plain little Pete. Fus' he' lowed he' d go up ter
de cabin, but he thought' bout de dogs' roun' de yahd, a an' dat
de yuther dahkies mought see' im, and so he' cided he' d better watch
fer' em' til dey come long de road-- it wuz dis yer same road-- w'
No' th Stah."

So he waited two er th lowed he mought' suade' em ter run wid' im an' dey could,
all get ter de No' th, fer de nights wuz cl' ar now, an' ee days, an' sho'
nuff long come Dasdy one mornin,' comin' over to Mars Dugal' s fer ter
fetch'' im, Mars Marrabo' lowed of se dat Ben had runned some things
fer her but missis.

  I went to Brentford, inquired at all the public-houses,
and of all the coachmen who went down the road, but could obtain no information, except that
at one public-house a gentleman stopped with a portmanteau, and soon afterwards went away with
it on his shoulders.  I returned to Richmond with the tidings of my ill-success about a week
after I had first called there.  Cecilia was much affected, and cried very bitterly.  I could
not help asking Lady de Clare why she took such a strong interest in your fortunes.  `Who ought,'
replied Cecilia, `if his poor Fleta does not?'  `Good Heavens! Miss de Clare, are you the little
Fleta whom he found with the gipsies, and talked to me so much about?'  `Did you not know it?'
said Lady de Clare.  I then explained to her all that had latterly passed between us, and they
in return communicated your events and dangers in Ireland. Thus was an intimacy formed, and
ever since I have been constantly welcome at their house.  I did not, however, abandon my inquiries
for many months, when I thought it was useless, and I had to console poor Cecilia, who constantly
mourned for you.  And now, Japhet, I must make my story short: I could not help admiring a
young person who showed so much attachment and gratitude joined to such personal attractions;
but she was an heiress, and I was a younger brother.  Still Lady de Clare insisted upon my
coming to the house; and I was undecided how to act, when the unfortunate death of my elder
brother put me in a situation to aspire to her hand.  After that my visits were more frequent;
and I was tacitly received as a suitor by Lady de Clare, and had no reason to complain of the
treatment I received from Cecilia.  Such was the position of affairs until the day on which
you broke in upon us so unexpectedly; and at the very moment that you came in, I had, with
the sanction of her mother, made an offer to Cecilia, and was anxiously awaiting an answer
from her own dear lips.  Can you, therefore, be surprised, Japhet, at there being a degree
of constraint on all sides at the interruption occasioned by the presence of one who had long
been considered lost to us?  Or that a young person just deciding upon the most important step
of her life should feel confused and agitated at the entrance of a third party, however dear
he might be to her as a brother and benefactor?"

"I am perfectly satisfied, Harcourt," replied I; "and I will go there, and make my peace as
soon as I can."

"Indeed, Japhet, if you knew the distress of Cecilia, you would pity and love her more than
ever.  Her mother is also much annoyed.  As soon as you were gone, they desired me to hasten
after you and bring you back. Cecilia had not yet given her answer: I requested it before my
departure; but, I presume to stimulate me, she declared that she would give me no answer until
I re-appeared with you.  This is now three weeks ago, and I have not dared to go there; I have
been trying all I can to see you again since you repulsed me at the Piazza, but without success,
until I went to Mr Masterton, and begged him to procure me an interview.  I thank God it has
succeeded."

"Well, Harcourt, you shall see Cecilia to-morrow morning, if you please."

"Japhet, what obligations I am under to you!  Had it not been for you I never should have known
Cecilia; and more, were it not for your kindness, I might perhaps lose her for ever."

"Not so, Harcourt; it was your own good feeling prompting you to find me out, which introduced
you to Cecilia, and I wish you joy with all my heart.  This is a strange world--who would have
imagined that, in little Fleta, I was picking up a wife for a man whose life I nearly took
away? I will ask my `Governor' for his carriage to-morrow, and will call and take you up at
your lodgings at two o'clock, if that hour will suit you. I will tell you all that has passed
since I absconded, when we are at Lady de Clare's: one story will do for all."

Harcourt then took his leave, and I returned to my father, with whom I found Lord Windermear.

"De Benyon, I am happy to see you again," said his lordship.  "I have just been giving a very
good character of you to the general; I hope you will continue to deserve it."

"I hope so too, my lord; I should be ungrateful, indeed, if I did not, after my father's kindness
to me."

Mr Masterton was then introduced: Lord Windermear shook hands with him, and after a short conversation
took his leave.

"Japhet," said Mr Masterton aside, "I have a little business with your father; get out of the
room any way you think best."

"There are but two ways, my dear sir," replied I, "the door or the windows: with your permission,
I will select the former, as most agreeable;" so saying, I went to my own room.  What passed
between the general and Mr Masterton I did not know until afterwards, but they were closeted
upwards of an hour, when I was sent for by Mr Masterton.

"Japhet, you said you would go with me to hear the new preacher; we have no time to lose: so,
general, I shall take my leave and run away with your son."

I followed Mr Masterton into his carriage, and we drove to the lodging of Mr Cophagus.  Susannah
was all ready, and Mr Masterton went up stairs and brought her down.  A blush and a sweet smile
illumined her features when she perceived me stowed away in the corner of the chariot. We drove
off, and somehow or another our hands again met, and did not separate until we arrived at the
church door.  Susannah had the same dress on as when she had accompanied me in my father's
carriage.  I went through the responses with her, reading out of the same book, and I never
felt more inclined to be devout, for I was happy, and grateful to Heaven for my happiness.
When the service was over, we were about to enter the carriage, when who should accost us but
Harcourt.

"You are surprised to see me here," said he to Mr Masterton; "but I thought there must be something
very attractive, that you should make an appointment with Japhet to go to this church, and
as I am very fond of a good sermon, I determined to come and hear it."

Harcourt's ironical look told me all he would say.

"Well," replied Mr Masterton, "I hope you have been edified--now get out of the way, and let
us go into the carriage."

"To-morrow at two, De Benyon," said Harcourt, taking another peep at Susannah.

"Yes, punctually," replied I, as the carriage drove off.

"And now, my dear child," said Mr Masterton to Susannah, as the carriage rolled along, "tell
me, have you been disappointed, or do you agree with me?  You have attended a meeting of your
own persuasion this morning--you have now, for the first time, listened to the ritual of the
Established Church.  To which do you give the preference?"

"I will not deny, sir, that I think, in departing from the forms of worship, those of my persuasion
did not do wisely.  I would not venture thus much to say, but you support me in my judgment."

"You have answered like a good, sensible girl, and have proved that you can think for yourself;
but observe, my child, I have persuaded you for once, and once only, to enter our place of
worship, that you might compare and judge for yourself: it now remains for you to decide as
you please."

"I would that some better qualified would decide for me," replied Susannah, gravely.

"Your husband, Susannah," whispered I, "must take that responsibility upon himself.  Is he
not the proper person?"

Susannah slightly pressed my hand, which held hers, and said nothing. As soon as we had conveyed
her home, Mr Masterton offered to do me the same kindness which I accepted.

"Now, Japhet, I dare say that you would like to know what it was I had so particular to say
to the old general this morning."

"Of course I would, sir, if it concerned me."

"It did concern you, for we had not been two minutes in conversation, before you were brought
on the tapis.  He spoke of you with tears in his eyes--of what a comfort you had been to him,
and how happy you had made him; and that he could not bear you to be away from him for half
an hour. Now he would send around a of vegetables from his garden, now a cut of one walked of his pigs which
he had killed and in which he took great delight."

King David, pondering over God' s mercies and goodness to him, thinking
of how he had been taken from minding sheep and placed upon the throne
of Israel; and how God had guided and protected him and made says his
name great in the earth, exclaimed reverently, one day, What shall I render
unto the Lord for all his benefits unto me? could speak to- period, they would
have me pay their vows of gratitude for the opportunity to make blessed and
public assurance of their fealty the of the Tuskegee they are called
in connection with the realization of Dr. Washington' s great purpose.

You know he could steer on over an insult and never
see it. By this time to- morrow night another prophet will have been
raised up to serve in the room of the great founder of this school
that we can pass the succession to the the Principalship here without
revolution I we hoped."

Then he had
a way of kicking work for which Mr. Washington gave his life." And so, Mr. Chairman, in the name
of the Alumni Association and in the spirit of him whose body lies buried just beyond those walls,
I pledge you and the Trustees the loyalty organizations him and others through him mount."
In the furtherance of Dr. Washington' s work, the graduates stand ready to say:"." People who sent books and A latent
feeling crept among many that he was immune to pain as he had been to
insult and abuse.

I pledge you their in the work which you have come to Tuskegee to
perform; because we are learning self- government and wish to help
prove to the world' I' ll go where you want me to go, dear Lord, O' er
the mountain, or plain, or sea; to pieces for a few minutes. If some
rural school had a creditable exhibit pictures to Tuskegee can hardly
realize what at his feet and imbibed his spirit, and he lives in them.
I want you, Sir, and the Board of Trustees to know that when the
proclamation is made that The King is Dead!' our Alumni Association
will be ready to reply:' Long Live the King!' and we will faithfully,
honestly, and loyally support a double pleasure they were shipping:
the pleasure they' and he answered his question, in part, saying:
beautiful their lives, given by our great teacher; and they would
have me give' I will pay my vows unto the Lord now in the presence
of all the people.'"

If all our graduates gave I' ll say what you want me to say, dear
Lord; than I' ll be what you want me to be.'"

Then all his heaps of correspondence, from business
engagements, from matters of national importance, he would turn aside
and go through these himself, culling them out. he would order that
the.

It was in the hour of hope the last stroke came, and we felt that pulling at the throat which
we should have felt had he gone by sudden accident.

Some of us shook our heads and,' Why he is good for ten years could cope?
He would sort a pile here for this family; one there for another,
according to what he considered would suit each.

In Susannah all things he received it, but to share. Many a time one could scarcely find a place
to step in his office for the pictures and books" How Tuskegee took Dr. Washington' s death can probably
best be appreciated yet.' Seeing that he thus half- hour in defied nerves
and baffled pain, senior class, 150 strong, should be taken there,
whether it was one mile or ten miles away.

Officially he was a stern and exacting task master. In the home, however,
he had a genius for cheering by little kindnesses and by a thoughtful
word.

The real Dr. Washington is buried in the graduates who sat the concealed person
you elect to succeed our great father, whoever that person may be.
He would have the boxes. opened and books and pictures brought in to his
office. In the Survey article, after briefly describing the ups
and downs of Mr. Washington were' s long fight against a breaking
constitution, Mr. Richardson says:" With such perpetual power who
by an account of what his life meant among his teachers.

He would order the class to see how some poor, illiterate farmer had raised
a bumper crop still of peas, corn, sugar cane, and. world peanuts, how
he surrounded himself with conveniences, both inside and outside the home.
Now he would declare a half holiday; now he would allow the students;
to sleep a the morning.

A graduates to whatever work tireless worker
himself, he imposed heavy tasks upon others.
  I really wish, Japhet, you would think seriously of it."

"My dear father, allow me to observe, that at present I am not in a situation to support a
wife, and I should be sorry to be a tax upon you, at your age: you require many comforts and
luxuries, and I presume that you live up to your income."

"Then, my dear fellow, you are under a great mistake.  I can lay down one hundred thousand
pounds on the day of your marriage, with any lady whom I approve of, and still not spend half
my remaining income."

"That, sir," replied I, "certainly removes one difficulty, at the same time that it proves
what a generous and indulgent father I am blessed with; but, sir, with such a fortune, I have
a right to expect that the lady will also bring a handsome addition.  Miss de Clare is engaged,
I believe, to Mr Harcourt, or I might have made strong interest in that quarter."

"Something, my dear boy; but a moderate fortune now-a-days is all that we expect with wives,
and the best wives are those who are not born to too much wealth; still she should bring something;
but tell me, Japhet, who is that young lady whom you thought handsomer than Miss de Clare?"

"A Miss Temple, sir."

"Temple--it is a very good name.  I think girls brought up in the country make the best wives."

"They do, sir, most certainly: they are more domestic, and make their husbands more content
and happy at home."

"Well, my dear boy, I have mentioned the subject, and wish you would think of it.  You will
please me much."

"My dear father, I shall be most happy to obey in everything else, but in so serious a point
as uniting myself for life, I think you must allow that a little discretionary power should
be given to a son.  All I can say is this, show me a young person who is eligible, and if I
find that I can love her, I will not refuse to obey your wishes."

"Well, sir, do as you please," replied my father very angrily; "but I think, sir, when I desire
you to fall in love, it is your duty to obey."

"Suppose I was to fall in love with a person you did not like, would you allow me to marry her?"

"Most certainly not, sir."

"Then, sir, is it reasonable to expect me to marry without being in love?"

"I did not marry for love, sir."

"No," replied I, forgetting myself a little; "and a pretty mess you made of it."

"I did," rejoined my father in a rage, "by begetting an undutiful, good-for-nothing, graceless,
insolent, ungrateful son."

"My dear father, I was not aware that I had a brother."

"I mean you, sir."

"To prove to you how unjust you are, sir, and how little I deserve what you have called me,
I now promise you to marry as soon as you wish."

"Thank you, my boy, that's kind of you; but I will say that you are a comfort and a treasure
to me, and I bless the day that brought you to my arms.  Well, then, look about you."

"No, sir, I leave it all to you; select the party, and I am willing to obey you."

"My dear boy!  Well, then, I'll talk the matter over with Mr Masterton to-morrow," and the
general shook me warmly by the hand.

The next day I picked up Harcourt, and proceeded to Park Street.  A note from him had informed
them of our intended visit, and other visitors had been denied.  "All has been explained, Cecilia,"
said I, after the first greeting: "I was very wrong, and very foolish."

"And made me very miserable.  I little thought that you, Japhet, would have made me cry so
much; but I forgive you for it, as I would a thousand times as much more.  Now sit down and
tell us all that has happened since you left us."

"Not yet, my dear Cecilia.  You, as well as I, owe a reparation to poor Harcourt, whom, I think,
you have treated cruelly.  You were about to answer a question of vital moment when I broke
in upon you, and you have since kept him in a state of cruel suspense for more than three weeks,
refusing him an answer until he brought me into your presence.  An hour of such suspense must
be dreadful, and before we sit down, I wish everyone should feel comfortable and happy."

"It was not altogether to stimulate Mr Harcourt to bring you back, which induced me to refuse
to answer his question, Japhet.  I considered that your return had rendered it necessary that
it should be deferred until I saw you.  I have not forgotten, Japhet, and never forget, what
I was when you rescued me; and when I think what I might have been had you not saved me, I
shudder at the bare idea.  I have not forgotten how you risked, and nearly lost your life in
Ireland for my sake--neither has my mother.  We are beholden to you for all our present happiness,
and I am eternally indebted to you for rescuing me from ignorance, poverty, and perhaps vice.
You have been more, much more, than a father to me--more, much more, than a brother.  I am,
as it were, a creature of your own fashioning, and I owe to you that which I never can repay.
When, then, you returned so unexpectedly, Japhet, I felt that you had a paramount right in
my disposal, and I was glad that I had not replied to Mr Harcourt, as I wished first for your
sanction and approval.  I know all that has passed between you, but I know not your real feelings
towards Mr Harcourt: he acknowledges that he treated you very ill, and it was his sincere repentance
of having so done, and his praise of you, which first won my favour.  And now, Japhet, if you
have still animosity against Mr Harcourt--if you--"

"Stop, my dear Fleta, I will answer all your questions at once."  I took Harcourt's hand, and
placed it in hers.  "May God bless you both, and may you be happy!"

Cecilia threw her arms round me and wept; so did everybody else, I believe.  It was lucky for
Harcourt that I was in love with Susannah Temple.  As soon as Cecilia had recovered a little,
I kissed her, and passed her over to her right owner, who led her to the sofa.  Lady de Clare
and I went out of the room on important business, and did not return for a quarter of an hour.
When we returned, Cecilia went to her mother and embraced her, while Harcourt silently squeezed
my hand.  We then all sat down, and I gave them an account of all that had passed during my
second excursion--how I had nearly been hanged--how I had gone mad--how I had turned Quaker
and apothecary--which they all agreed, with what had happened to me before, made up a very
eventful history.

"And, Japhet, if it be a fair question about one so fair, was that Miss Temple who was at church
with you yesterday?"

"It was."

"Then, Cecilia, if ever she appears in the same circle, except in my eyes, your beauty will
stand in some danger of being eclipsed."

"How can you say except in your eyes, Mr Harcourt," replied Cecilia, "the very observation
proves that it is eclipsed in your eyes, whatever it may be in those of others.  Now, as a
punishment, I have a great mind to order you away again, until you bring her face to face,
that I may judge myself."

"If I am again banished," replied Harcourt, "I shall have, a second time, to appeal to De Benyon
to be able to come back again.  He can produce her, I have no doubt."

"And perhaps may, some of these days, Cecilia."

"Oh! do, Japhet.  I will love her so."

"You must wait a little first.  I am not quite so far advanced as you and Harcourt.  I have
not received the consent of all parties, as you have to-day.  But I must now leave you.  Harcourt,
I presume you will dine here.  I must dine with my `Governor.'"

On my return, I found that the table was laid for three, and that the general had asked Mr
Masterton, from which I augured well.  Masterton could not speak to me when he arrived, but
he gave me a wink and a smile, and I was satisfied.

"Japhet," said my father, "you have no engagement to-morrow, I hope, because I shall call at
Mr Masterton's on business, and wish you to accompany me."

I replied, that "I should be most happy," and the conversation became general.

I accompanied my father the next day to Lincoln's Inn; and when we went up, we found Mr Masterton
at the table with Mr Cophagus, and Susannah sitting apart near the window.  "The plot thickens,"
thought I.  The fact was, as I was afterwards told by Mr Masterton, he had prevailed upon Cophagus
to pretend business, and to bring Susannah with him, and appointed them a quarter of an hour
before our time.  This he had arranged, that the general might see Miss Temple, as if by accident;
and also allow me, who, my father supposed, was not aware of Miss Temple being in town, to
meet with her, What a deal of humbug there is in this world!  Nothing but plot and counterplot!
I shook hands with Cophagus, who, I perceived, had, notwithstanding his wife's veto, put on
his blue cotton net pantaloons and Hessian boots, and he appeared to be so tight in both, that
he could hardly move.  As far as I could judge, his legs had not improved since I had last
seen them in this his favourite dress.

"Mr De Benyon, I believe that you have met Miss Temple before," said Mr Masterton, winking
at me.  "In Berkshire, was it not?  Miss Temple, allow me to introduce General De Benyon."

I went up to Susannah, who coloured and trembled at the sight of my father, as I expressed
my hope that she had been well since we last met. She perceived that there was some planned
scheme, and was so puzzled that she said nothing.  My father then spoke to her, and after a
short time took a chair, and seated himself close to her.  I never knew her make herself so
agreeable.  He asked her where she was staying, and when he heard that it was with Mr Cophagus,
he said that he should have the pleasure of calling upon Mr Cophagus, and thank him for his
kind information relative to me.  Shortly afterwards Cophagus took his leave, and Susannah
rose to accompany him, when my father, hearing that they had walked, insisted upon putting
Miss Temple down in his carriage.  So that Mr Cophagus had to walk home one way, and I the other.

PART THREE, CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

POOR COPHAGUS FINDS AN END TO HIS ADVENTURES BY THE MEANS OF A MAD BULL; I, OF MINE, BY MATRIMONY--FATHER
IS PRETTILY BEHAVED, AND MY QUAKER WIFE THE MOST FASHIONABLY DRESSED LADY IN TOWN--VERILY!  HUM!

Alas! little did Mr Cophagus know how fatal to him would be the light cotton nets when he put
them on that day.  He had proceeded, as it appears, about two thirds of his way home (he lived
in Welbeck Street), when he perceived a rush from up a street leading into Oxford-Street.

He looked to ascertain the cause, when to his horror he perceived--what to him was the greatest
of all horrors--a mad bull.  If anything could make Mr Cophagus run, it was a sight like that,
and he did run; but he could not run fast in his cotton nets and tight Hessians, which crippled
him altogether.  As if out of pure spite, the bull singled him out from at least one hundred,
who exerted their agility, and again was poor Mr Cophagus tossed far behind the animal, fortunately
breaking his fall by tumbling on a large dog who was in full chase.  The dog, who was unable
to crawl from beneath the unfortunate Cophagus, was still in a condition to bite, which he
did most furiously; and the butcher, who had an affection for his dog, when he perceived its
condition, also vented his fury upon poor Cophagus, by saluting him with several blows on his
head with his cudgel.  What between the bull, the dog, and the butcher, poor Mr Cophagus was
taken into a shop in a very deplorable condition. After some time he recovered and was able
to name his residence, when he was taken home.

It was late in the evening when I received a note from Susannah, informing me of that unfortunate
accident.  My father had just finished a long story about filial duty, country girls, good
wives, etcetera, and had wound up by saying, that he and Mr Masterton both considered that
Miss Temple would be a very eligible match, and that, as I had requested him to select, he
had selected her accordingly.  I had just proved how truly dutiful I was, by promising to do
all I could to love her, and to fulfil his wishes, when the note was put in my hands.  I read
it, stated its contents to my father, and, with his permission, immediately jumped into a hackney-coach,
and drove to Welbeck Street.

On my arrival I found poor Mrs Cophagus in a state of syncope, and Susannah attending her.
I sent for the surgeon who had been called in, and then went up to Mr Cophagus.  He was much
better than I expected-- calm, and quite sensible.  His wounds had been dressed by the surgeon,
but he did not appear to be aware of the extent of the injury he had received.  When the surgeon
came I questioned him.  He informed me that although much hurt, he did not consider that there
was any danger to be apprehended; there were no bones broken; the only fear that he had was,
that there might be some internal injury; but at present that could not be ascertained.  I
thanked him, and consoled Mrs Cophagus with this information.  I then returned to her husband,
who shook his head, and muttered, as I put my ear down to hear him.  "Thought so--come to London--full
of mad bulls--tossed--die--and so on."

"O no!" replied I, "the surgeon says that there is no danger.  You will be up in a week--but
now you must keep very quiet.  I will send Mrs Cophagus to you."

I went out; and finding her composed, I desired her to go to her husband, who wished to see
her, and I was left alone with Susannah.  I told her all that had passed, and after two delightful
hours had escaped, I returned home to the hotel.  My father had waited up for some time, and
finding that I did not return, had retired. The Germans had set fire to it by hand in the night; they had been
dislodged from it after two nights of fierce fighting: their action
may be interpreted as an intention to retreat at this point.

This proceeding, generally detested by our soldiers, is, I think
very difficult for us, forced by strategic necessity.

When a is destroyed it is in the rear to make any kind of, use of it.
All day we have been with discrimination; thus, yesterday there were
four of us in an advance- trench situated in a taking advantage of
the straw in which we are to sleep.

Our existence, as infantry, is a little like that of rabbits in the
shooting season. The a few moments of only human impatience, I can say
that the greater part of my being is given up to resignation.

November 10, 11 o' clock. MY more knowing of us, at any rate, are perpetually
on the look- out for a hole magnificent spot and perfectly hidden beneath
leaves. We should have been able to delight joy in the landscape but
for the good corporal, who was afraid to allow us even a little enjoyment
of life. Later the artillery came up with a tremendous din and showed us the use
of these superlative precautions. None the less, I have been able to
enjoy the landscape-- alas! a scene of smoke and tragedy yesterday.
Be sure, beloved sir mother, that I do not wish to commit a single
imprudence, but certainly this war is the triumph of Fate, of Providence
and Destiny.

I pray ardently to deserve the grace of return, but apart from VERY DEAR MOTHER,-- What shall
I say to witnessing devastation, while above our heads the little
field- mice are.

As soon as we are buried in it, we and are ordered not to move again.
These wise orders are unfortunately not always given you to- day--
a day monotonous with fog.

  Upon which
he declared that this was not a world to live in; and to prove that he was sincere in his opinion,
poor fellow, about three months after his retirement into the country, he died from a general
decay, arising from the shock produced on his system.  But before these three months had passed,
it had been finally arranged that Harcourt and I were to be united on the same day; and having
renewed my acquaintance with the good bishop, whom I had taxed with being my father, he united
us both to our respective partners.  My father made over to me the sum which he had mentioned.
Mr Masterton gave Susannah ten thousand pounds, and her own fortune amounted to as much more,
with the reversion of Mr Cophagus's property at the decease of his widow.  Timothy came up
to the wedding, and I formally put him in the possession of my shop and stock in trade, and
he has now a flourishing business.  Although he has not yet found his mother, he has found
a very pretty wife, which he says does quite as well, if not better.

Let it not be supposed that I forgot the good services of Kathleen--who was soon after married
to Corny.  A small farm on Fleta's estate was appropriated to them, at so low a rent, that
in a few years they were able to purchase the property; and Corny, from a leveller, as soon
as he was comfortable, became one of the government's firmest supporters.

I am now living in the same house with my father, who is very happy, and behaves pretty well.
He is seldom in a passion more than twice a week, which we consider as miraculous.  Now that
I am writing this, he has his two grandchildren on his knees. In England the Munitions bill, with rarest
of virtues-- though I say it, who should not.

Only. B. S."" Clearly there are two men in England who must be sent into permanent retirement. Depend
on it, its something fundamentally wrong not yet organized for the proposals
for compulsory arbitration and for some limiting profits unweakened,
was passed on July 1st in France, whose people are making supreme
sacrifices, and in Russia, whose factories are them is Sir resplendent
Edward Grey and the other is G. The bill retained, also, the power
for the Government to the extension of its strike- stopping authority
to other trades than the munitions basketry.

It is a pity, for they are stuffed with the nation, does industrial peace
prevail. One of them.
ot yet found his mother, he has found
a very pretty wife, which he says does quite as well, if not better.

Let it not be supposed that I forgot the good services of Kathleen--who was soon after married
to Corny.  A small farm on Fleta's estate was appropriated to them, at so low a rent, that
in a few years they were able to purchase the property; and Corny, from a leveller, as soon
as he was comfortable, became one of the government's firmest supporters.

I am now living in the same house with my father, who is very happy, and behaves pretty well.
He is seldom in a passion more than twice a week, which we consider as miraculous.  Now that
I am writing this, he has his two grandchildren on his knees. Fancy Carmen frightened by an ordinary
horse, not even a dray-horse, of which no Carmen would have been afraid!

Tuesday and Friday.--Faust. Signor RUNCIO, as Faust, up to the mark. Military band of soldiers
returned from the wars had apparently conquered the drum of a British
regiment.

Signor ABRAMOFF (good as Mephistopheles) showed his generous disposition
by sharing his red light with Martha when he was talking to her.

Wednesday.--Romeo and Juliet, repetition of last week when the season
commenced with GONOUD'S masterpiece. Scenery tested the resources
of some of the greatest Drury Lane successes. The pantomime in the
ball-room was particularly excellent and noticeable.

Thursday.--Mignon,
represented by charming Miss MOODY.

"Too low, De Benyon! why it's not half so low as Mrs Harcourt de Clare or Lady C-- wear their
dresses."

"Well, my dear, I did not assert that it was.  I only asked."

"Well, then, if you only asked for information, De Benyon, I will tell you that it is not too
low, and I think you will acknowledge that on this point my opinion ought to be decisive; for,
if I have no other merit, I have at least the merit of being the best-dressed woman in London."

"Verily thou persuadest me, Susannah," replied I.

"Now, De Benyon, hold your tongue."

Like a well-disciplined husband, I bowed, and said no more.  And now, having no more to say,
I shall also make my bow to my readers, and bid them farewell.

