"Ye're a silly callant, Reuben," answered Deans, "with your bits of argument. Can a man touch
pitch and not be defiled? Or what think ye of the brave and worthy champions of the Covenant,
that wadna sae muckle as hear a minister speak, be his gifts and graces as they would, that
hadna witnessed against the enormities of the day? Nae lawyer shall ever speak for me and mine
that hasna concurred in the testimony of the scattered, yet lovely remnant, which abode in
the clifts of the rocks."

So saying, and as if fatigued, both with the arguments and presence of his guests, the old
man arose, and seeming to bid them adieu with a motion of his head and hand, went to shut himself
up in his sleeping apartment.

"It's thrawing his daughter's life awa," said Saddletree to Butler, "to hear him speak in that
daft gate. Where will he ever get a Cameronian advocate? Or wha ever heard of a lawyer's suffering
either for ae religion or another? The lassie's life is clean flung awa."

During the latter part of this debate, Dumbiedikes had arrived at the door, dismounted, hung
the pony's bridle on the usual hook, and sunk down on his ordinary settle. His eyes, with more
than their usual animation, followed first one speaker then another, till he caught the melancholy
sense of the whole from Saddletree's last words. He rose from his seat, stumped slowly across
the room, and, coming close up to Saddletree's ear, said in a tremulous anxious voice, "Will--will
siller do naething for them, Mr. Saddletree?"

"Umph!" said Saddletree, looking grave,--"siller will certainly do it in the Parliament House,
if ony thing can do it; but where's the siller to come frae? Mr. Deans, ye see, will do naething;
and though Mrs. Saddletree's their far-awa friend, and right good weel-wisher, and is weel
disposed to assist, yet she wadna like to stand to be bound singuli in solidum to such an expensive
wark. An ilka friend wad bear a share o' the burden, something might be dune--ilka ane to be
liable for their ain input--I wadna like to see the case fa' through without being pled--it
wadna be creditable, for a' that daft whig body says."

"I'll--I will--yes" (assuming fortitude), "I will be answerable," said Dumbiedikes, "for a
score of punds sterling."--And he was silent, staring in astonishment at finding himself capable
of such unwonted resolution and excessive generosity.

"God Almighty bless ye, Laird!" said Jeanie, in a transport of gratitude.

"Ye may ca' the twenty punds thretty," said Dumbiedikes, looking bashfully away from her, and
towards Saddletree.

"That will do bravely," said Saddletree, rubbing his hands; and ye sall hae a' my skill and
knowledge to gar the siller gang far--I'll tape it out weel--I ken how to gar the birkies tak
short fees, and be glad o' them too--it's only garring them trow ye hae twa or three cases
of importance coming on, and they'll work cheap to get custom. Let me alane for whilly-whaing
an advocate:--it's nae sin to get as muckle flue them for our siller as we can--after a', it's
but the wind o' their mouth--it costs them naething; whereas, in my wretched occupation of
a saddler, horse milliner, and harness maker, we are out unconscionable sums just for barkened
hides and leather."

"Can I be of no use?" said Butler. "My means, alas! are only worth the black coat I wear; but
I am young--I owe much to the family--Can I do nothing?"

"Ye can help to collect evidence, sir," said Saddletree; "if we could but find ony ane to say
she had gien the least hint o' her condition, she wad be brought aft wi' a wat finger--Mr.
Crossmyloof tell'd me sae. The crown, says he, canna be craved to prove a positive--was't a
positive or a negative they couldna be ca'd to prove?--it was the tane or the tither o' them,
I am sure, and it maksna muckle matter whilk. Wherefore, says he, the libel maun be redargued
by the panel proving her defences. And it canna be done otherwise."

"But the fact, sir," argued Butler, "the fact that this poor girl has borne a child; surely
the crown lawyers must prove that?" said Butler.

Saddletree paused a moment, while the visage of Dumbiedikes, which traversed, as if it had
been placed on a pivot, from the one spokesman to the other, assumed a more blithe expression.

"Ye--ye--ye--es," said Saddletree, after some grave hesitation; "unquestionably that is a thing
to be proved, as the court will more fully declare by an interlocutor of relevancy in common
form; but I fancy that job's done already, for she has confessed her guilt."

"Confessed the murder?" exclaimed Jeanie, with a scream that made them all start.

"No, I didna say that," replied Bartoline. "But she confessed bearing the babe."

"And what became of it, then?" said Jeanie, "for not a word could I get from her but bitter
sighs and tears."

"She says it was taken away from her by the woman in whose house it was born, and who assisted
her at the time."

"And who was that woman?" said Butler. "Surely by her means the truth might be discovered.--Who
was she? I will fly to her directly."

"I wish," said Dumbiedikes, "I were as young and as supple as you, and had the gift of the
gab as weel."

"Who is she?" again reiterated Butler impatiently.--"Who could that woman be?"

"Ay, wha kens that but herself?" said Saddletree; "she deponed farther, and declined to answer
that interrogatory." 

With Ardern's crochet cotton No. 12. Pin No. 1.

Tie these 3 threads together. With the thread of the 1st plain shuttle round the little finger,
and always working with the figured shuttle. 2 D, L, 2 D turn these stitches under the thumb, with
the thread of the 2nd plain shuttle round the little finger; 2 R
D, L, 2 R D, repeat until you have twice the length you will require
of insertion.

Refil a plain shuttle and the figured; tie the threads together.
Pin No. 2.

"Thretty punds!" hesitated Dumbiedikes, who was now out of the reach of those eyes which had
inflamed his generosity; "I only said twenty punds."

"Ay; but," said Saddletree, "that was under protestation to add and eik; and so ye craved leave
to amend your libel, and made it thretty."

"Did I? I dinna mind that I did," answered Dumbiedikes. "But whatever I said I'll stand to."
Then bestriding his steed with some difficulty, he added, "Dinna ye think poor Jeanie's een
wi' the tears in them glanced like lamour beads, Mr. Saddletree?"

"I kenna muckle about women's een, Laird," replied the insensible Bartoline; "and I care just
as little. I wuss I were as weel free o' their tongues; though few wives," he added, recollecting
the necessity of keeping up his character for domestic rule, "are under better command than
mine, Laird. I allow neither perduellion nor lese-majesty against my sovereign authority."

The Laird saw nothing so important in this observation as to call for a rejoinder, and when
they had exchanged a mute salutation, they parted in peace upon their different errands.

CHAPTER TWELFTH.

                I'll warrant that fellow from drowning,
                were the ship no stronger than a nut-shell.

                                           The Tempest.

Butler felt neither fatigue nor want of refreshment, although, from the mode in which he had
spent the night, he might well have been overcome with either. But in the earnestness with
which he hastened to the assistance of the sister of Jeanie Deans, he forgot both.

In his first progress he walked with so rapid a pace as almost approached to running, when
he was surprised to hear behind him a call upon his name, contending with an asthmatic cough,
and half-drowned amid the resounding trot of a Highland pony. He looked behind, and saw the
Laird of Dumbiedikes making after him with what speed he might, for it happened, fortunately
for the Laird's purpose of conversing with Butler, that his own road homeward was for about
two hundred yards the same with that which led by the nearest way to the city. Butler stopped
when he heard himself thus summoned, internally wishing no good to the panting equestrian who
thus retarded his journey.

"Uh! uh! uh!" ejaculated Dumbiedikes, as he checked the hobbling pace of the pony by our friend
Butler. "Uh! uh! it's a hard-set willyard beast this o' mine." He had in fact just overtaken
the object of his chase at the very point beyond which it would have been absolutely impossible
for him to have continued the pursuit, since there Butler's road parted from that leading to
Dumbiedikes, and no means of influence or compulsion which the rider could possibly have used
towards his Bucephalus could have induced the Celtic obstinacy of Rory Bean (such was the pony's
name) to have diverged a yard from the path that conducted him to his own paddock.

Even when he had recovered from the shortness of breath occasioned by a trot much more rapid
than Rory or he were accustomed to, the high purpose of Dumbiedikes seemed to stick as it were
in his throat, and impede his utterance, so that Butler stood for nearly three minutes ere
he could utter a syllable; and when he did find voice, it was only to say, after one or two
efforts, "Uh! uh! uhm! I say, Mr.--Mr. Butler, it's a braw day for the har'st."

"Fine day, indeed," said Butler. "I wish you good morning, sir."

"Stay--stay a bit," rejoined Dumbiedikes; "that was no what I had gotten to say."

"Then, pray be quick, and let me have your commands," rejoined Butler; "I crave your pardon,
but I am in haste, and Tempus nemini--you know the proverb."

Dumbiedikes did not know the proverb, nor did he even take the trouble to endeavour to look
as if he did, as others in his place might have done. He was concentrating all his intellects
for one grand proposition, and could not afford any detachment to defend outposts. "I say,
Mr. Butler," said he, "ken ye if Mr. Saddletree's a great lawyer?"

"I have no person's word for it but his own," answered Butler, drily; "but undoubtedly he best
understands his own qualities."

"Umph!" replied the taciturn Dumbiedikes, in a tone which seemed to say, "Mr. Butler, I take
your meaning." [With the plain shuttle thread round the little finger, 4 D. Begin a plain shuttle
oval, 3 D; L, 3 D draw close. Work a similar figured shuttle oval,
and tie round its foundation thread. Repeat twice.] With the plain
shuttle thread, 4 D.

The Rosette.

And having thus displayed more sagacity than Butler expected from him, he courteously touched
his gold-laced cocked hat, and by a punch on the ribs, conveyed to Rory Bean, it was his rider's
pleasure that he should forthwith proceed homewards; a hint which the quadruped obeyed with
that degree of alacrity with which men and animals interpret and obey suggestions that entirely
correspond with their own inclinations.

Butler resumed his pace, not without a momentary revival of that jealousy which the honest
Laird's attention to the family of Deans had at different times excited in his bosom. But he
was too generous long to nurse any feeling which was allied to selfishness. "He is," said Butler
to himself, "rich in what I want; why should I feel vexed that he has the heart to dedicate
some of his pelf to render them services, which I can only form the empty wish of executing?
In God's name, let us each do what we can. May she be but happy!--saved from the misery and
disgrace that seems impending--Let me but find the means of preventing the fearful experiment
of this evening, and farewell to other thoughts, though my heart-strings break in parting with
them!"

He redoubled his pace, and soon stood before the door of the Tolbooth, or rather before the
entrance where the door had formerly been placed. His interview with the mysterious stranger,
the message to Jeanie, his agitating conversation with her on the subject of breaking off their
mutual engagements, and the interesting scene with old Deans, had so entirely occupied his
mind as to drown even recollection of the tragical event which he had witnessed the preceding
evening. His attention was not recalled to it by the groups who stood scattered on the street
in conversation, which they hushed when strangers approached, or by the bustling search of
the agents of the city police, supported by small parties of the military, or by the appearance
of the Guard-House, before which were treble sentinels, or, finally, by the subdued and intimidated
looks of the lower orders of society, who, conscious that they were liable to suspicion, if
they were not guilty of accession to a riot likely to be strictly inquired into, glided about
with an humble and dismayed aspect, like men whose spirits being exhausted in the revel and
the dangers of a desperate debauch over-night, are nerve-shaken, timorous, and unenterprising
on the succeeding day.

None of these symptoms of alarm and trepidation struck Butler, whose mind was occupied with
a different, and to him still more interesting subject, until he stood before the entrance
to the prison, and saw it defended by a double file of grenadiers, instead of bolts and bars.
Their "Stand, stand!" the blackened appearance of the doorless gateway, and the winding staircase
and apartments of the Tolbooth, now open to the public eye, recalled the whole proceedings
of the eventful night. Upon his requesting to speak with Effie Deans, the same tall, thin,
silver-haired turnkey, whom he had seen on the preceding evening, made his appearance,

"I think," he replied to Butler's request of admission, with true Scottish indirectness, "ye
will be the same lad that was for in to see her yestreen?"

Butler admitted he was the same person.

"And I am thinking," pursued the turnkey, "that ye speered at me when we locked up, and if
we locked up earlier on account of Porteous?"

"Very likely I might make some such observation," said Butler; "but the question now is, can
I see Effie Deans?"

"I dinna ken--gang in by, and up the turnpike stair, and turn till the ward on the left hand."

The old man followed close behind him, with his keys in his hand, not forgetting even that
huge one which had once opened and shut the outward gate of his dominions, though at present
it was but an idle and useless burden. No sooner had Butler entered the room to which he was
directed, than the experienced hand of the warder selected the proper key, and locked it on
the outside. At first Butler conceived this manoeuvre was only an effect of the man's habitual
and official caution and jealousy. But when he heard the hoarse command, "Turn out the guard!"
and immediately afterwards heard the clash of a sentinel's arms, as he was posted at the door
of his apartment, he again called out to the turnkey, "My good friend, I have business of some
consequence with Effie Deans, and I beg to see her as soon as possible." Repeat once, joining the
figured shuttle oval to the 2nd L of the Rosette,] 4 D. Repeat to the required length, beginning
with the looped oval.

For the Foundation. Tie the threads together in the L of the 1st plain shuttle oval, holding
the work in the hand and the right side up. With the plain shuttle thread round the little finger
(L, 1 D, 4 times) tie in the 3rd L of the next oval, (L, 1 D, 4 times) tie in the L of the next
oval, [(L, 1 D, 3 times) tie in the L of the next oval.

"What do you mean by that, sir?" retorted Butler. "You must mistake me for some other person.
My name is Reuben Butler, preacher of the gospel."

"I ken that weel eneugh," said the turnkey.

"Well, then, if you know me, I have a right to know from you in return, what warrant you have
for detaining me; that, I know, is the right of every British subject."

"Warrant!" said the jailor,--"the warrant's awa to Libberton wi' twa sheriff officers seeking
ye. If ye had staid at hame, as honest men should do, ye wad hae seen the warrant; but if ye
come to be incarcerated of your ain accord, wha can help it, my jo?"

"'So I cannot see Effie Deans, then," said Butler; "and you are determined not to let me out?"

"Troth will I no, neighbour," answered the old man, doggedly; "as for Effie Deans, ye'll hae
eneuch ado to mind your ain business, and let her mind hers; and for letting you out, that
maun be as the magistrate will determine. And fare ye weel for a bit, for I maun see Deacon
Sawyers put on ane or twa o' the doors that your quiet folk broke down yesternight, Mr. Butler."

There was something in this exquisitely provoking, but there was also something darkly alarming.
To be imprisoned, even on a false accusation, has something in it disagreeable and menacing
even to men of more constitutional courage than Butler had to boast; for although he had much
of that resolution which arises from a sense of duty and an honourable desire to discharge
it, yet, as his imagination was lively, and his frame of body delicate, he was far from possessing
that cool insensibility to danger which is the happy portion of men of stronger health, more
firm nerves, and less acute sensibility. An indistinct idea of peril, which he could neither
understand nor ward off, seemed to float before his eyes. He tried to think over the events
of the preceding night, in hopes of discovering some means of explaining or vindicating his
conduct for appearing among the mob, since it immediately occurred to him that his detention
must be founded on that circumstance. And it was with anxiety that he found he could not recollect
to have been under the observation of any disinterested witness in the attempts that he made
from time to time to expostulate with the rioters, and to prevail on them to release him. The
distress of Deans's family, the dangerous rendezvous which Jeanie had formed, and which he
could not now hope to interrupt, had also their share in his unpleasant reflections. Yet, impatient
as he was to receive an e'claircissement upon the cause of his confinement, and if possible
to obtain his liberty, he was affected with a trepidation which seemed no good omen; when,
after remaining an hour in this solitary apartment, he received a summons to attend the sitting
magistrate. He was conducted from prison strongly guarded by a party of soldiers, with a parade
of precaution, that, however ill-timed and unnecessary, is generally displayed after an event,
which such precaution, if used in time, might have prevented.

He was introduced into the Council Chamber, as the place is called where the magistrates hold
their sittings, and which was then at a little distance from the prison. One or two of the
senators of the city were present, and seemed about to engage in the examination of an individual
who was brought forward to the foot of the long green-covered table round which the council
usually assembled. "Is that the preacher?" said one of the magistrates, as the city officer
in attendance introduced Butler. The man answered in the affirmative. "Let him sit down there
for an instant; we will finish this man's business very briefly."

"Shall we remove Mr. Butler?" queried the assistant.

"It is not necessary--Let him remain where he is."

Butler accordingly sate down on a bench at the bottom of the apartment, attended by one of
his keepers.

