     "I assert that when I declared that the Commander could not grant
     immunities, I did what he desired, although I told him that it was
     to cause delay until their Highnesses should, receive information
     from the country, and should command anew what might be for their
     service.

     "He excited their enmity against me, and he seems, from what took
     place and from his behaviour, to have come as my enemy and as a very
     vehement one; or else the report is true that he has spent much to
     obtain this employment.  I do not know more about it than what I
     hear.  I never heard of an inquisitor gathering rebels together and
     accepting them, and others devoid of credit and unworthy of it, as
     witnesses against their Governor.

     "If their Highnesses were to make a general inquisition there, I
     assure you that they would look upon it as a great wonder that the
     island does not founder.

     "I think your Ladyship will remember that when, after losing my
     sails, I was driven into Lisbon by a tempest, I was falsely accused
     of having gone there to the King in order to give him the Indies.
     Their Highnesses afterwards learned the contrary, and that it was
     entirely malicious.

     "Although I may know but little, I do not think any one considers me
     so stupid as not to know that even if the Indies were mine I could
     not uphold myself without the help of some Prince.

     "If this be so, where could I find better support and security than
     in the King and Queen, our Lords, who have raised me from nothing to
     such great honour, and are the most exalted Princes of the world on
     sea and on land, and who consider that I have rendered them service,
     and who preserve to me my privileges and rewards: and if any one
     infringes them, their Highnesses increase them still more, as was
     seen in the case of John Aguado; and they order great honour to be
     conferred upon me, and, as I have already said, their Highnesses
     have received service from me, and keep my sons in their household;
     all which could by no means happen with another prince, for where
     there is no affection, everything else fails.

     "I have now spoken thus in reply to a malicious slander, but against
     my will, as it is a thing which should not recur to memory even in
     dreams; for the Commander Bobadilla maliciously seeks in this way to
     set his own conduct and actions in a brighter light; but I shall
     easily show him that his small knowledge and great cowardice,
     together with his inordinate cupidity, have caused him to fail
     therein.

     "I have already said that I wrote to him and to the friars, and
     immediately set out, as I told him, almost alone, because all the
     people were with the Adelantado, and likewise in order to prevent
     suspicion on his part. The severity of their losses is eloquent testimony. 'Boomer' Barrett
     came down the field, shot through the face, cheerfully announcing his good
     luck: 'I've got a soft one, right through the cheek.' I have spoken
     of the 53rd Sikhs. They lost their four senior officers, killed. But
     every regiment had brave leaders to mourn. One thinks with grief and admiration
     of that commander, a noble and greatly beloved man, whom a bullet struck down,
so that he died without recovering consciousness several days later. Though
the body's tasks were finished, his mind worked on the fact that
his men had been temporarily checked, and he kept up the cry, 'What
will they say in England?

     The ---- fell back; ---- failed them.' Even so, when duty has become
     life's ruling atmosphere,
     
     One stern tyrannic thought which makes All other thoughts its slave,

it
matters little that the body should fail.

     The mind labours yet, fulfilling its unconscious allegiance.

     
     He went, unterrified, Into the Gulf of
     
     Death.
     
     
     
     In my aid-post we carried on, secure beneath our canopy of racing shells. The slope
     gave cover against 'over' bullets, except when it was necessary
     
to walk about. Early in the afternoon, during a lull, a doctor appeared and asked
if it was safe to bring up his ambulances. I told him 'Yes'; there were
dropping bullets, but very little shell-fire. He replied that he
would come immediately.

     But the supply of shells greatly quickened, and he did not appear again till near darkness,
     when he brought two motor ambulances, taking five sitting and four lying
cases in each. He promised to return, but did not. Apart from these eighteen, only
the walking wounded got away, pushing back into our noisy and perilous
hinterland.

About four o'clock the Turks, in reply to our intense bombardment,
put a brief but terrific fire on the mounds, blowing up men on every
side.

     I decided to clear out to where, round the corner, an old wall gave upright
     shelter. As our first exodus swung round, a huddled, hobbling mass, two 'coal-boxes'
     burst in quick succession,
     
     each closer than the last shell before it. I shouted 'Duck!' We ducked,
     then made a few yards and ducked for the second time. A perfect sleet
     of wind and steel seemed to pass overhead. But no one was hit, and
     we were round the corner, where, I fear, I dropped the Cherub with considerable
     emphasis on his gammy leg. But indeed we were very lucky. Shells burst
     on every side of the aid-post--on right and left, but not on us. This
     was one of the rare occasions when I have felt confidence. Dobson and I were
     far too busied to worry. Also it
     
seemed hard to believe that a shell would be allowed to fall on that shattered,
helpless suffering. I saw, without seeing, things that are burnt
into memory. We had no morphia, nothing but bandages. There was a
man hit in the head, who just flopped up and down, seemingly invertebrate
as an eel, calling out terribly for an hour till he died.

     "I ought to be judged as a captain who went from Spain to the Indies
     to conquer a numerous and warlike people, whose customs and religion
     are very contrary to ours; who live in rocks and mountains, without
     fixed settlements, and not like ourselves: and where, by the Divine
     Will, I have placed under the dominion of the King and Queen, our
     Sovereigns, a second world, through which Spain, which was reckoned
     a poor country, has become the richest.

     "I ought to be judged as a captain who for such a long time up to
     this day has borne arms without laying them aside for an hour, and
     by gentlemen adventurers and by custom, and not by letters, unless
     they were from Greeks or Romans or others of modern times of whom
     there are so many and such noble examples in Spain; or otherwise I
     receive great injury, because in the Indies there is neither town
     nor settlement. 

     Well; we marched on the 5th of November; and the next day, after we had
     readied our ground, when we had just sat down to breakfast, great was our
     surprise to see General Willshire himself ride into camp with a few of his staff.
     All we could learn on the subject was, that on that morning, which
     was the day fixed for the rest of the division to begin their march
     down the Bolan Pass, and just as they were about to start, the General sent for
     his Adjutant and Quarter-master-general, and, taking them and
     his Aides with him, started for our camp. From here again he would Depart and make him a Fresh Home, and so on
until he Became an Old Man and had gained neither Fortune nor Friends.

The

Other,
being Disinclined to Change or Diversity of Scene, remained all his
Life in One Place.