THE JUNGLE BOOK

By Rudyard Kipling

Contents

     Mowgli's Brothers
     Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack
     Kaa's Hunting
     Road-Song of the Bandar-Log
     "Tiger! Tiger!"
     Mowgli's Song
     The White Seal
     Lukannon
     "Rikki-Tikki-Tavi" "Tabaqui is
with him."

Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack

     As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled
        Once, twice and again!
     And a doe leaped up, and a doe leaped up
     From the pond in the wood where the wild deer sup.
     This I, scouting alone, beheld,
        Once, twice and again!

     As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled
        Once, twice and again!
     And a wolf stole back, and a wolf stole back
     To carry the word to the waiting pack,
     And we sought and we found and we bayed on his track
        Once, twice and again!

     As the dawn was breaking the Wolf Pack yelled
        Once, twice and again!
     Feet in the jungle that leave no mark!

     Eyes that can see in the dark--the dark!
     Tongue--give tongue to it!  Hark!  O hark!
        Once, twice and again!

Kaa's Hunting

     His spots are the joy of the Leopard: his horns are the
        Buffalo's pride.
     Be clean, for the strength of the hunter is known by the
        gloss of his hide.
     If ye find that the Bullock can toss you, or the heavy-browed
        Sambhur can gore;
     Ye need not stop work to inform us: we knew it ten seasons
        before.
     Oppress not the cubs of the stranger, but hail them as Sister
        and Brother,
     For though they are little and fubsy, it may be the Bear is
        their mother.
     "There is none like to me!" says the Cub in the pride of his
        earliest kill;
     But the jungle is large and the Cub he is small.  Let him
        think and be still.
                                 Maxims of Baloo

All that is told here happened some time before Mowgli was turned out of the Seeonee Wolf Pack,
or revenged himself on Shere Khan the tiger. It was in the days when Baloo was teaching him
the Law of the Jungle. The big, serious, old brown bear was delighted to have so quick a pupil,
for the young wolves will only learn as much of the Law of the Jungle as applies to their own
pack and tribe, and run away as soon as they can repeat the Hunting Verse--"Feet that make
no noise; eyes that can see in the dark; ears that can hear the winds in their lairs, and sharp
white teeth, all these things are the marks of our brothers except Tabaqui the Jackal and the
Hyaena whom we hate." But Mowgli, as a man-cub, had to learn a great deal more than this. Sometimes
Bagheera the Black Panther would come lounging through the jungle to see how his pet was getting
on, and would purr with his head against a tree while Mowgli recited the day's lesson to Baloo.
The boy could climb almost as well as he could swim, and swim almost as well as he could run.
So Baloo, the Teacher of the Law, taught him the Wood and Water Laws: how to tell a rotten
branch from a sound one; how to speak politely to the wild bees when he came upon a hive of
them fifty feet above ground; what to say to Mang the Bat when he disturbed him in the branches
at midday; and how to warn the water-snakes in the pools before he splashed down among them.
None of the Jungle People like being disturbed, and all are very ready to fly at an intruder.
Then, too, Mowgli was taught the Strangers' Hunting Call, which must be repeated aloud till
it is answered, whenever one of the Jungle-People hunts outside his own grounds. It means,
translated, "Give me leave to hunt here because I am hungry." And the answer is, "Hunt then
for food, but not for pleasure."

All this will show you how much Mowgli had to learn by heart, and he grew very tired of saying
the same thing over a hundred times. But, as Baloo said to Bagheera, one day when Mowgli had
been cuffed and run off in a temper, "A man's cub is a man's cub, and he must learn all the
Law of the Jungle."

"But think how small he is," said the Black Panther, who would have spoiled Mowgli if he had
had his own way. "How can his little head carry all thy long talk?"

"Is there anything in the jungle too little to be killed? No. That is why I teach him these
things, and that is why I hit him, very softly, when he forgets."

"Softly! What dost thou know of softness, old Iron-feet?" Bagheera grunted. "His face is all
bruised today by thy--softness. Ugh."

"Better he should be bruised from head to foot by me who love him than that he should come
to harm through ignorance," Baloo answered very earnestly. "I am now teaching him the Master
Words of the Jungle that shall protect him with the birds and the Snake People, and all that
hunt on four feet, except his own pack. He can now claim protection, if he will only remember
the words, from all in the jungle. Is not that worth a little beating?"

"Well, look to it then that thou dost not kill the man-cub. He is no tree trunk to sharpen
thy blunt claws upon. But what are those Master Words? I am more likely to give help than to
ask it"--Bagheera stretched out one paw and admired the steel-blue, ripping-chisel talons at
the end of it--"still I should like to know."

"I will call Mowgli and he shall say them--if he will. Come, Little Brother!"

"My head is ringing like a bee tree," said a sullen little voice over their heads, and Mowgli
slid down a tree trunk very angry and indignant, adding as he reached the ground: "I come for
Bagheera and not for thee, fat old Baloo!"

"That is all one to me," said Baloo, though he was hurt and grieved. "Tell Bagheera, then,
the Master Words of the Jungle that I have taught thee this day."

"Master Words for which people?" said Mowgli, delighted to show off. "The jungle has many tongues.
I know them all."

"A little thou knowest, but not much. See, O Bagheera, they never thank their teacher. Not
one small wolfling has ever come back to thank old Baloo for his teachings. Say the word for
the Hunting-People, then--great scholar."

"We be of one blood, ye and I," said Mowgli, giving the words the Bear accent which all the
Hunting People use.

"Good. Now for the birds."

Mowgli repeated, with the Kite's whistle at the end of the sentence.

"Now for the Snake-People," said Bagheera.

The answer was a perfectly indescribable hiss, and Mowgli kicked up his feet behind, clapped
his hands together to applaud himself, and jumped on to Bagheera's back, where he sat sideways,
drumming with his heels on the glossy skin and making the worst faces he could think of at Baloo.

"There--there! That was worth a little bruise," said the brown bear tenderly. "Some day thou
wilt remember me." Then he turned aside to tell Bagheera how he had begged the Master Words
from Hathi the Wild Elephant, who knows all about these things, and how Hathi had taken Mowgli
down to a pool to get the Snake Word from a water-snake, because Baloo could not pronounce
it, and how Mowgli was now reasonably safe against all accidents in the jungle, because neither
snake, bird, nor beast would hurt him.

"No one then is to be feared," Baloo wound up, patting his big furry stomach with pride.

"Except his own tribe," said Bagheera, under his breath; and then aloud to Mowgli, "Have a
care for my ribs, Little Brother! What is all this dancing up and down?"

Mowgli had been trying to make himself heard by pulling at Bagheera's shoulder fur and kicking
hard. When the two listened to him he was shouting at the top of his voice, "And so I shall
have a tribe of my own, and lead them through the branches all day long."

"What is this new folly, little dreamer of dreams?" said Bagheera.

"Yes, and throw branches and dirt at old Baloo," Mowgli went on. "They have promised me this. Ah!"

"Whoof!" Baloo's big paw scooped Mowgli off Bagheera's back, and as the boy lay between the
big fore-paws he could see the Bear was angry.

"Mowgli," said Baloo, "thou hast been talking with the Bandar-log--the Monkey People."

Mowgli looked at Bagheera to see if the Panther was angry too, and Bagheera's eyes were as
hard as jade stones.

"Thou hast been with the Monkey People--the gray apes--the people without a law--the eaters
of everything. That is great shame."

"When Baloo hurt my head," said Mowgli (he was still on his back), "I went away, and the gray
apes came down from the trees and had pity on me. No one else cared." He snuffled a little.

"The pity of the Monkey People!" Baloo snorted. "The stillness of the mountain stream! The
cool of the summer sun! And then, man-cub?"

"And then, and then, they gave me nuts and pleasant things to eat, and they--they carried me
in their arms up to the top of the trees and said I was their blood brother except that I had
no tail, and should be their leader some day."

"They have no leader," said Bagheera. "They lie. They have always lied."

"They were very kind and bade me come again. Why have I never been taken among the Monkey People?
They stand on their feet as I do. They do not hit me with their hard paws. They play all day.
Let me get up! Bad Baloo, let me up! I will play with them again."

"Listen, man-cub," said the Bear, and his voice rumbled like thunder on a hot night. "I have
taught thee all the Law of the Jungle for all the peoples of the jungle--except the Monkey-Folk
who live in the trees. They have no law. They are outcasts. They have no speech of their own,
but use the stolen words which they overhear when they listen, and peep, and wait up above
in the branches. Their way is not our way. They are without leaders. They have no remembrance.
They boast and chatter and pretend that they are a great people about to do great affairs in
the jungle, but the falling of a nut turns their minds to laughter and all is forgotten. We
of the jungle have no dealings with them. We do not drink where the monkeys drink; we do not
go where the monkeys go; we do not hunt where they hunt; we do not die where they die. Hast
thou ever heard me speak of the Bandar-log till today?"

"No," said Mowgli in a whisper, for the forest was very still now Baloo had finished.

"The Jungle-People put them out of their mouths and out of their minds. They are very many,
evil, dirty, shameless, and they desire, if they have any fixed desire, to be noticed by the
Jungle People. But we do not notice them even when they throw nuts and filth on our heads."

He had hardly spoken when a shower of nuts and twigs spattered down through the branches; and
they could hear coughings and howlings and angry jumpings high up in the air among the thin
branches.

"The Monkey-People are forbidden," said Baloo, "forbidden to the Jungle-People. Remember."

"Forbidden," said Bagheera, "but I still think Baloo should have warned thee against them."

"I--I? How was I to guess he would play with such dirt. The Monkey People! Faugh!"

A fresh shower came down on their heads and the two trotted away, taking Mowgli with them.
What Baloo had said about the monkeys was perfectly true. They belonged to the tree-tops, and
as beasts very seldom look up, there was no occasion for the monkeys and the Jungle-People
to cross each other's path. But whenever they found a sick wolf, or a wounded tiger, or bear,
the monkeys would torment him, and would throw sticks and nuts at any beast for fun and in
the hope of being noticed. Then they would howl and shriek senseless songs, and invite the
Jungle-People to climb up their trees and fight them, or would start furious battles over nothing
among themselves, and leave the dead monkeys where the Jungle-People could see them. They were
always just going to have a leader, and laws and customs of their own, but they never did,
because their memories would not hold over from day to day, and so they compromised things
by making up a saying, "What the Bandar-log think now the jungle will think later," and that
comforted them a great deal. None of the beasts could reach them, but on the other hand none
of the beasts would notice them, and that was why they were so pleased when Mowgli came to
play with them, and they heard how angry Baloo was.

They never meant to do any more--the Bandar-log never mean anything at all; but one of them
invented what seemed to him a brilliant idea, and he told all the others that Mowgli would
be a useful person to keep in the tribe, because he could weave sticks together for protection
from the wind; so, if they caught him, they could make him teach them. Of course Mowgli, as
a woodcutter's child, inherited all sorts of instincts, and used to make little huts of fallen
branches without thinking how he came to do it. The Monkey-People, watching in the trees, considered
his play most wonderful. This time, they said, they were really going to have a leader and
become the wisest people in the jungle--so wise that everyone else would notice and envy them.
Therefore they followed Baloo and Bagheera and Mowgli through the jungle very quietly till
it was time for the midday nap, and Mowgli, who was very much ashamed of himself, slept between
the Panther and the Bear, resolving to have no more to do with the Monkey People.

The next thing he remembered was feeling hands on his legs and arms--hard, strong, little hands--and
then a swash of branches in his face, and then he was staring down through the swaying boughs
as Baloo woke the jungle with his deep cries and Bagheera bounded up the trunk with every tooth
bared. The Bandar-log howled with triumph and scuffled away to the upper branches where Bagheera
dared not follow, shouting: "He has noticed us! Bagheera has noticed us. All the Jungle-People
admire us for our skill and our cunning." Then they began their flight; and the flight of the
Monkey-People through tree-land is one of the things nobody can describe. They have their regular
roads and crossroads, up hills and down hills, all laid out from fifty to seventy or a hundred
feet above ground, and by these they can travel even at night if necessary. Two of the strongest
monkeys caught Mowgli under the arms and swung off with him through the treetops, twenty feet
at a bound. Had they been alone they could have gone twice as fast, but the boy's weight held
them back. Sick and giddy as Mowgli was he could not help enjoying the wild rush, though the
glimpses of earth far down below frightened him, and the terrible check and jerk at the end
of the swing over nothing but empty air brought his heart between his teeth. His escort would
rush him up a tree till he felt the thinnest topmost branches crackle and bend under them,
and then with a cough and a whoop would fling themselves into the air outward and downward,
and bring up, hanging by their hands or their feet to the lower limbs of the next tree. Sometimes
he could see for miles and miles across the still green jungle, as a man on the top of a mast
can see for miles across the sea, and then the branches and leaves would lash him across the
face, and he and his two guards would be almost down to earth again. So, bounding and crashing
and whooping and yelling, the whole tribe of Bandar-log swept along the tree-roads with Mowgli
their prisoner.

For a time he was afraid of being dropped. Then he grew angry but knew better than to struggle,
and then he began to think. The first thing was to send back word to Baloo and Bagheera, for,
at the pace the monkeys were going, he knew his friends would be left far behind. It was useless
to look down, for he could only see the topsides of the branches, so he stared upward and saw,
far away in the blue, Rann the Kite balancing and wheeling as he kept watch over the jungle
waiting for things to die. Rann saw that the monkeys were carrying something, and dropped a
few hundred yards to find out whether their load was good to eat. He whistled with surprise
when he saw Mowgli being dragged up to a treetop and heard him give the Kite call for--"We
be of one blood, thou and I." The waves of the branches closed over the boy, but Chil balanced
away to the next tree in time to see the little brown face come up again. "Mark my trail!"
Mowgli shouted. "Tell Baloo of the Seeonee Pack and Bagheera of the Council Rock."

"In whose name, Brother?" Rann had never seen Mowgli before, though of course he had heard of him.

"Mowgli, the Frog. Man-cub they call me! Mark my tra-il!"

The last words were shrieked as he was being swung through the air, but Rann nodded and rose
up till he looked no bigger than a speck of dust, and there he hung, watching with his telescope
eyes the swaying of the treetops as Mowgli's escort whirled along.

"They never go far," he said with a chuckle. "They never do what they set out to do. Always
pecking at new things are the Bandar-log. This time, if I have any eye-sight, they have pecked
down trouble for themselves, for Baloo is no fledgling and Bagheera can, as I know, kill more
than goats."

So he rocked on his wings, his feet gathered up under him, and waited.

Meantime, Baloo and Bagheera were furious with rage and grief. Bagheera climbed as he had never
climbed before, but the thin branches broke beneath his weight, and he slipped down, his claws
full of bark.

"Why didst thou not warn the man-cub?" he roared to poor Baloo, who had set off at a clumsy
trot in the hope of overtaking the monkeys. "What was the use of half slaying him with blows
if thou didst not warn him?"

"Haste! O haste! We--we may catch them yet!" Baloo panted.

"At that speed! It would not tire a wounded cow. Teacher of the Law--cub-beater--a mile of
that rolling to and fro would burst thee open. Sit still and think! Make a plan. This is no
time for chasing. They may drop him if we follow too close."

"Arrula! Whoo! They may have dropped him already, being tired of carrying him. Who can trust
the Bandar-log? Put dead bats on my head! Give me black bones to eat! Roll me into the hives
of the wild bees that I may be stung to death, and bury me with the Hyaena, for I am most miserable
of bears! Arulala! Wahooa! O Mowgli, Mowgli! Why did I not warn thee against the Monkey-Folk
instead of breaking thy head? Now perhaps I may have knocked the day's lesson out of his mind,
and he will be alone in the jungle without the Master Words."

Baloo clasped his paws over his ears and rolled to and fro moaning.

"At least he gave me all the Words correctly a little time ago," said Bagheera impatiently.
"Baloo, thou hast neither memory nor respect. What would the jungle think if I, the Black Panther,
curled myself up like Ikki the Porcupine, and howled?"

"What do I care what the jungle thinks? He may be dead by now."

"Unless and until they drop him from the branches in sport, or kill him out of idleness, I
have no fear for the man-cub. He is wise and well taught, and above all he has the eyes that
make the Jungle-People afraid. But (and it is a great evil) he is in the power of the Bandar-log,
and they, because they live in trees, have no fear of any of our people." Bagheera licked one
forepaw thoughtfully.

"Fool that I am! Oh, fat, brown, root-digging fool that I am," said Baloo, uncoiling himself
with a jerk, "it is true what Hathi the Wild Elephant says: `To each his own fear'; and they,
the Bandar-log, fear Kaa the Rock Snake. He can climb as well as they can. He steals the young
monkeys in the night. The whisper of his name makes their wicked tails cold. Let us go to Kaa."

"What will he do for us? He is not of our tribe, being footless--and with most evil eyes,"
said Bagheera.

"He is very old and very cunning. Above all, he is always hungry," said Baloo hopefully. "Promise
him many goats."

"He sleeps for a full month after he has once eaten. He may be asleep now, and even were he
awake what if he would rather kill his own goats?" Bagheera, who did not know much about Kaa,
was naturally suspicious.

"Then in that case, thou and I together, old hunter, might make him see reason." Here Baloo
rubbed his faded brown shoulder against the Panther, and they went off to look for Kaa the
Rock Python.

They found him stretched out on a warm ledge in the afternoon sun, admiring his beautiful new
coat, for he had been in retirement for the last ten days changing his skin, and now he was
very splendid--darting his big blunt-nosed head along the ground, and twisting the thirty feet
of his body into fantastic knots and curves, and licking his lips as he thought of his dinner
to come.

"He has not eaten," said Baloo, with a grunt of relief, as soon as he saw the beautifully mottled
brown and yellow jacket. "Be careful, Bagheera! He is always a little blind after he has changed
his skin, and very quick to strike."

Kaa was not a poison snake--in fact he rather despised the poison snakes as cowards--but his
strength lay in his hug, and when he had once lapped his huge coils round anybody there was
no more to be said. "Good hunting!" cried Baloo, sitting up on his haunches. Like all snakes
of his breed Kaa was rather deaf, and did not hear the call at first. Then he curled up ready
for any accident, his head lowered.

"Good hunting for us all," he answered. "Oho, Baloo, what dost thou do here? Good hunting,
Bagheera. One of us at least needs food. Is there any news of game afoot? A doe now, or even
a young buck? I am as empty as a dried well."

"We are hunting," said Baloo carelessly. He knew that you must not hurry Kaa. He is too big.

"Give me permission to come with you," said Kaa. "A blow more or less is nothing to thee, Bagheera
or Baloo, but I--I have to wait and wait for days in a wood-path and climb half a night on
the mere chance of a young ape. Psshaw! The branches are not what they were when I was young.
Rotten twigs and dry boughs are they all."

"Maybe thy great weight has something to do with the matter," said Baloo.

"I am a fair length--a fair length," said Kaa with a little pride. "But for all that, it is
the fault of this new-grown timber. I came very near to falling on my last hunt--very near
indeed--and the noise of my slipping, for my tail was not tight wrapped around the tree, waked
the Bandar-log, and they called me most evil names."

"Footless, yellow earth-worm," said Bagheera under his whiskers, as though he were trying to
remember something.

"Sssss! Have they ever called me that?" said Kaa.

"Something of that kind it was that they shouted to us last moon, but we never noticed them.
They will say anything--even that thou hast lost all thy teeth, and wilt not face anything
bigger than a kid, because (they are indeed shameless, these Bandar-log)--because thou art
afraid of the he-goat's horns," Bagheera went on sweetly.

Now a snake, especially a wary old python like Kaa, very seldom shows that he is angry, but
Baloo and Bagheera could see the big swallowing muscles on either side of Kaa's throat ripple
and bulge.

"The Bandar-log have shifted their grounds," he said quietly. "When I came up into the sun
today I heard them whooping among the tree-tops."

"It--it is the Bandar-log that we follow now," said Baloo, but the words stuck in his throat,
for that was the first time in his memory that one of the Jungle-People had owned to being
interested in the doings of the monkeys.

"Beyond doubt then it is no small thing that takes two such hunters--leaders in their own jungle
I am certain--on the trail of the Bandar-log," Kaa replied courteously, as he swelled with
curiosity.

"Indeed," Baloo began, "I am no more than the old and sometimes very foolish Teacher of the
Law to the Seeonee wolf-cubs, and Bagheera here--"

"Is Bagheera," said the Black Panther, and his jaws shut with a snap, for he did not believe
in being humble. "The trouble is this, Kaa. Those nut-stealers and pickers of palm leaves have
stolen away our man-cub of whom thou hast perhaps heard."

"I heard some news from Ikki (his quills make him presumptuous) of a man-thing that was entered
into a wolf pack, but I did not believe. Ikki is full of stories half heard and very badly told."

"But it is true. He is such a man-cub as never was," said Baloo. "The best and wisest and boldest
of man-cubs--my own pupil, who shall make the name of Baloo famous through all the jungles;
and besides, I--we--love him, Kaa."

"Ts! Ts!" said Kaa, weaving his head to and fro. "I also have known what love is. There are
tales I could tell that--"

"That need a clear night when we are all well fed to praise properly," said Bagheera quickly.
"Our man-cub is in the hands of the Bandar-log now, and we know that of all the Jungle-People
they fear Kaa alone."

"They fear me alone. They have good reason," said Kaa. "Chattering, foolish, vain--vain, foolish,
and chattering, are the monkeys. But a man-thing in their hands is in no good luck. They grow
tired of the nuts they pick, and throw them down. They carry a branch half a day, meaning to
do great things with it, and then they snap it in two. That man-thing is not to be envied.
They called me also--`yellow fish' was it not?"

"Worm--worm--earth-worm," said Bagheera, "as well as other things which I cannot now say for
shame."

"We must remind them to speak well of their master. Aaa-ssp! We must help their wandering memories.
Now, whither went they with the cub?"

"The jungle alone knows. Toward the sunset, I believe," said Baloo. "We had thought that thou
wouldst know, Kaa."

"I? How? I take them when they come in my way, but I do not hunt the Bandar-log, or frogs--or
green scum on a water-hole, for that matter."

"Up, Up! Up, Up! Hillo! Illo! Illo, look up, Baloo of the Seeonee Wolf Pack!" 

4. THE BIRTHPLACE OF LOUIS AGASSIZ; from a photograph.

5. HOTEL DES NEUCHATELOIS; copied by Mrs. Elliot from an oil sketch
made on the spot by J. Burkhardt.

6. PORTRAIT OF JACOB LEUTHOLD; from a portrait by Burkhardt.

7.

SECOND STATION ON THE AAR GLACIER; Copied by Mrs. Elliot from a sketch in oil by J. Burkhardt.

8.
PORTRAIT OF LOUIS AGASSIZ AT THE AGE OF FIFTY-FIVE; originally published
in "Nature".

9. COTTAGE AT NAHANT; from a photograph.

10. MUSEUM OF COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY; from a photograph.

11. PORTRAIT BUST OF AGASSIZ BY POWERS AT THE MUSEUM OF COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY; from a photograph.

12.
VIEW OF PENIKESE; from a photograph.

***

LOUIS AGASSIZ.

PART 1. IN EUROPE.

JEAN LOUIS RODOLPHE AGASSIZ was born May 28, 1807, at the village of Motier, on the Lake of Morat.
His father, Louis Rodolphe Agassiz, was a clergyman; his mother, Rose Mayor, was the daughter
of a physician whose home was at Cudrefin, on the shore of the Lake of Neuchatel.

The parsonages in Switzerland are frequently pretty and picturesque. That of Motier, looking upon
the lake and sheltered by a hill which commands a view over the whole
chain of the Bernese Alps, was especially so.

It possessed a vineyard large enough to add something in good years to the small salary of the
pastor; an orchard containing, among other trees, an apricot famed
the country around for the unblemished beauty of its abundant fruit;
a good vegetable garden, and a delicious spring of water flowing always
fresh and pure into a great stone basin behind the house.

That stone basin was Agassiz's first aquarium; there he had his first
collection of fishes.* (* After his death a touching tribute was paid
to his memory by the inhabitants of his birthplace.

With appropriate ceremonies, a marble slab was placed above the door
of the parsonage of Motier, with this inscription, "J. Louis Agassiz,
celebre naturaliste, est ne dans cette maison, le 28 Mai, 1807.")

It
does not appear that he had any precocious predilection for study,
and his parents, who for the first ten years of his life were his
only teachers, were too wise to stimulate his mind beyond the ordinary
attainments of his age. having lost her first four children in infancy,
his mother watched with trembling solicitude over his early years.

It was perhaps for this reason that she was drawn so closely to her boy, and understood that his
love of nature, and especially of all living things, was an intellectual
tendency, and not simply a child's disposition to find friends and
playmates in the animals about him.

In later years her sympathy gave her the key to the work of his manhood, as it had done to
the sports of his childhood. She remained his most intimate friend to the last hour of her
life, and he survived her but six years.
Louis's love of natural history showed itself almost from infancy.
When a very little fellow he had, beside his collection of fishes,
all sorts of pets: birds, field-mice, hares, rabbits, guinea-pigs,
etc., whose families he reared with the greatest care. Guided by his
knowledge of the haunts and habits of fishes, he and his brother Auguste
became the most adroit of young fishermen,--using processes all their
own and quite independent of hook, line, or net. You could
still trace the stone causeways that led up to the ruined gates where the last splinters of
wood hung to the worn, rusted hinges. Trees had grown into and out of the walls; the battlements
were tumbled down and decayed, and wild creepers hung out of the windows of the towers on the
walls in bushy hanging clumps.

A great roofless palace crowned the hill, and the marble of the courtyards and the fountains
was split, and stained with red and green, and the very cobblestones in the courtyard where
the king's elephants used to live had been thrust up and apart by grasses and young trees.
From the palace you could see the rows and rows of roofless houses that made up the city looking
like empty honeycombs filled with blackness; the shapeless block of stone that had been an
idol in the square where four roads met; the pits and dimples at street corners where the public
wells once stood, and the shattered domes of temples with wild figs sprouting on their sides.
The monkeys called the place their city, and pretended to despise the Jungle-People because
they lived in the forest. And yet they never knew what the buildings were made for nor how
to use them. They would sit in circles on the hall of the king's council chamber, and scratch
for fleas and pretend to be men; or they would run in and out of the roofless houses and collect
pieces of plaster and old bricks in a corner, and forget where they had hidden them, and fight
and cry in scuffling crowds, and then break off to play up and down the terraces of the king's
garden, where they would shake the rose trees and the oranges in sport to see the fruit and
flowers fall. They explored all the passages and dark tunnels in the palace and the hundreds
of little dark rooms, but they never remembered what they had seen and what they had not; and
so drifted about in ones and twos or crowds telling each other that they were doing as men
did. They drank at the tanks and made the water all muddy, and then they fought over it, and
then they would all rush together in mobs and shout: "There is no one in the jungle so wise
and good and clever and strong and gentle as the Bandar-log." Then all would begin again till
they grew tired of the city and went back to the tree-tops, hoping the Jungle-People would
notice them.

Mowgli, who had been trained under the Law of the Jungle, did not like or understand this kind
of life. The monkeys dragged him into the Cold Lairs late in the afternoon, and instead of
going to sleep, as Mowgli would have done after a long journey, they joined hands and danced
about and sang their foolish songs. One of the monkeys made a speech and told his companions
that Mowgli's capture marked a new thing in the history of the Bandar-log, for Mowgli was going
to show them how to weave sticks and canes together as a protection against rain and cold.
Mowgli picked up some creepers and began to work them in and out, and the monkeys tried to
imitate; but in a very few minutes they lost interest and began to pull their friends' tails
or jump up and down on all fours, coughing.

"I wish to eat," said Mowgli. "I am a stranger in this part of the jungle. Bring me food, or
give me leave to hunt here."

Twenty or thirty monkeys bounded away to bring him nuts and wild pawpaws. But they fell to
fighting on the road, and it was too much trouble to go back with what was left of the fruit.
Mowgli was sore and angry as well as hungry, and he roamed through the empty city giving the
Strangers' Hunting Call from time to time, but no one answered him, and Mowgli felt that he
had reached a very bad place indeed. "All that Baloo has said about the Bandar-log is true,"
he thought to himself. "They have no Law, no Hunting Call, and no leaders--nothing but foolish
words and little picking thievish hands. So if I am starved or killed here, it will be all
my own fault. But I must try to return to my own jungle. Baloo will surely beat me, but that
is better than chasing silly rose leaves with the Bandar-log."

No sooner had he walked to the city wall than the monkeys pulled him back, telling him that
he did not know how happy he was, and pinching him to make him grateful. He set his teeth and
said nothing, but went with the shouting monkeys to a terrace above the red sandstone reservoirs
that were half-full of rain water. There was a ruined summer-house of white marble in the center
of the terrace, built for queens dead a hundred years ago. The domed roof had half fallen in
and blocked up the underground passage from the palace by which the queens used to enter. But
the walls were made of screens of marble tracery--beautiful milk-white fretwork, set with agates
and cornelians and jasper and lapis lazuli, and as the moon came up behind the hill it shone
through the open work, casting shadows on the ground like black velvet embroidery. Sore, sleepy,
and hungry as he was, Mowgli could not help laughing when the Bandar-log began, twenty at a
time, to tell him how great and wise and strong and gentle they were, and how foolish he was
to wish to leave them. "We are great. We are free. We are wonderful. We are the most wonderful
people in all the jungle! We all say so, and so it must be true," they shouted. "Now as you
are a new listener and can carry our words back to the Jungle-People so that they may notice
us in future, we will tell you all about our most excellent selves." Mowgli made no objection,
and the monkeys gathered by hundreds and hundreds on the terrace to listen to their own speakers
singing the praises of the Bandar-log, and whenever a speaker stopped for want of breath they
would all shout together: "This is true; we all say so." Mowgli nodded and blinked, and said
"Yes" when they asked him a question, and his head spun with the noise. "Tabaqui the Jackal
must have bitten all these people," he said to himself, "and now they have madness. Certainly
this is dewanee, the madness. Do they never go to sleep? Now there is a cloud coming to cover
that moon. If it were only a big enough cloud I might try to run away in the darkness. But
I am tired."

That same cloud was being watched by two good friends in the ruined ditch below the city wall,
for Bagheera and Kaa, knowing well how dangerous the Monkey-People were in large numbers, did
not wish to run any risks. The monkeys never fight unless they are a hundred to one, and few
in the jungle care for those odds.

"I will go to the west wall," Kaa whispered, "and come down swiftly with the slope of the ground
in my favor. They will not throw themselves upon my back in their hundreds, but--"

"I know it," said Bagheera. "Would that Baloo were here, but we must do what we can. When that
cloud covers the moon I shall go to the terrace. They hold some sort of council there over
the boy."

"Good hunting," said Kaa grimly, and glided away to the west wall. That happened to be the
least ruined of any, and the big snake was delayed awhile before he could find a way up the
stones. The cloud hid the moon, and as Mowgli wondered what would come next he heard Bagheera's
light feet on the terrace. The Black Panther had raced up the slope almost without a sound
and was striking--he knew better than to waste time in biting--right and left among the monkeys,
who were seated round Mowgli in circles fifty and sixty deep. There was a howl of fright and
rage, and then as Bagheera tripped on the rolling kicking bodies beneath him, a monkey shouted:
"There is only one here! Kill him! Kill." A scuffling mass of monkeys, biting, scratching,
tearing, and pulling, closed over Bagheera, while five or six laid hold of Mowgli, dragged
him up the wall of the summerhouse and pushed him through the hole of the broken dome. A man-trained
boy would have been badly bruised, for the fall was a good fifteen feet, but Mowgli fell as
Baloo had taught him to fall, and landed on his feet.

"Stay there," shouted the monkeys, "till we have killed thy friends, and later we will play
with thee--if the Poison-People leave thee alive."

"We be of one blood, ye and I," said Mowgli, quickly giving the Snake's Call. He could hear
rustling and hissing in the rubbish all round him and gave the Call a second time, to make sure.

"Even ssso! Down hoods all!" said half a dozen low voices (every ruin in India becomes sooner
or later a dwelling place of snakes, and the old summerhouse was alive with cobras). "Stand
still, Little Brother, for thy feet may do us harm."

Mowgli stood as quietly as he could, peering through the open work and listening to the furious
din of the fight round the Black Panther--the yells and chatterings and scufflings, and Bagheera's
deep, hoarse cough as he backed and bucked and twisted and plunged under the heaps of his enemies.
For the first time since he was born, Bagheera was fighting for his life.

"Baloo must be at hand; Bagheera would not have come alone," Mowgli thought. And then he called
aloud: "To the tank, Bagheera. Roll to the water tanks. Roll and plunge! Get to the water!"

Bagheera heard, and the cry that told him Mowgli was safe gave him new courage. He worked his
way desperately, inch by inch, straight for the reservoirs, halting in silence. Then from the
ruined wall nearest the jungle rose up the rumbling war-shout of Baloo. The old Bear had done
his best, but he could not come before. "Bagheera," he shouted, "I am here. I climb! I haste!
Ahuwora! The stones slip under my feet! Wait my coming, O most infamous Bandar-log!" He panted
up the terrace only to disappear to the head in a wave of monkeys, but he threw himself squarely
on his haunches, and, spreading out his forepaws, hugged as many as he could hold, and then
began to hit with a regular bat-bat-bat, like the flipping strokes of a paddle wheel. A crash
and a splash told Mowgli that Bagheera had fought his way to the tank where the monkeys could
not follow. The Panther lay gasping for breath, his head just out of the water, while the monkeys
stood three deep on the red steps, dancing up and down with rage, ready to spring upon him
from all sides if he came out to help Baloo. It was then that Bagheera lifted up his dripping
chin, and in despair gave the Snake's Call for protection--"We be of one blood, ye and I"--for
he believed that Kaa had turned tail at the last minute. Even Baloo, half smothered under the
monkeys on the edge of the terrace, could not help chuckling as he heard the Black Panther
asking for help.

Kaa had only just worked his way over the west wall, landing with a wrench that dislodged a
coping stone into the ditch. He had no intention of losing any advantage of the ground, and
coiled and uncoiled himself once or twice, to be sure that every foot of his long body was
in working order. All that while the fight with Baloo went on, and the monkeys yelled in the
tank round Bagheera, and Mang the Bat, flying to and fro, carried the news of the great battle
over the jungle, till even Hathi the Wild Elephant trumpeted, and, far away, scattered bands
of the Monkey-Folk woke and came leaping along the tree-roads to help their comrades in the
Cold Lairs, and the noise of the fight roused all the day birds for miles round. Then Kaa came
straight, quickly, and anxious to kill. The fighting strength of a python is in the driving
blow of his head backed by all the strength and weight of his body. If you can imagine a lance,
or a battering ram, or a hammer weighing nearly half a ton driven by a cool, quiet mind living
in the handle of it, you can roughly imagine what Kaa was like when he fought. A python four
or five feet long can knock a man down if he hits him fairly in the chest, and Kaa was thirty
feet long, as you know. His first stroke was delivered into the heart of the crowd round Baloo.
It was sent home with shut mouth in silence, and there was no need of a second. The monkeys
scattered with cries of--"Kaa! It is Kaa! Run! Run!"

Generations of monkeys had been scared into good behavior by the stories their elders told
them of Kaa, the night thief, who could slip along the branches as quietly as moss grows, and
steal away the strongest monkey that ever lived; of old Kaa, who could make himself look so
like a dead branch or a rotten stump that the wisest were deceived, till the branch caught
them. Kaa was everything that the monkeys feared in the jungle, for none of them knew the limits
of his power, none of them could look him in the face, and none had ever come alive out of
his hug. And so they ran, stammering with terror, to the walls and the roofs of the houses,
and Baloo drew a deep breath of relief. His fur was much thicker than Bagheera's, but he had
suffered sorely in the fight. Then Kaa opened his mouth for the first time and spoke one long
hissing word, and the far-away monkeys, hurrying to the defense of the Cold Lairs, stayed where
they were, cowering, till the loaded branches bent and crackled under them. The monkeys on
the walls and the empty houses stopped their cries, and in the stillness that fell upon the
city Mowgli heard Bagheera shaking his wet sides as he came up from the tank. Then the clamor
broke out again. The monkeys leaped higher up the walls. They clung around the necks of the
big stone idols and shrieked as they skipped along the battlements, while Mowgli, dancing in
the summerhouse, put his eye to the screenwork and hooted owl-fashion between his front teeth,
to show his derision and contempt.

"Get the man-cub out of that trap; I can do no more," Bagheera gasped. "Let us take the man-cub
and go. They may attack again."

"They will not move till I order them. Stay you sssso!" Kaa hissed, and the city was silent
once more. "I could not come before, Brother, but I think I heard thee call"--this was to Bagheera.

"I--I may have cried out in the battle," Bagheera answered. "Baloo, art thou hurt?

"I am not sure that they did not pull me into a hundred little bearlings," said Baloo, gravely
shaking one leg after the other. "Wow! I am sore. Kaa, we owe thee, I think, our lives--Bagheera
and I."

"No matter. Where is the manling?"

"Here, in a trap. I cannot climb out," cried Mowgli. The curve of the broken dome was above
his head.

"Take him away. He dances like Mao the Peacock. He will crush our young," said the cobras inside.

"Hah!" said Kaa with a chuckle, "he has friends everywhere, this manling. Stand back, manling.
And hide you, O Poison People. I break down the wall."

Kaa looked carefully till he found a discolored crack in the marble tracery showing a weak
spot, made two or three light taps with his head to get the distance, and then lifting up six
feet of his body clear of the ground, sent home half a dozen full-power smashing blows, nose-first.
The screen-work broke and fell away in a cloud of dust and rubbish, and Mowgli leaped through
the opening and flung himself between Baloo and Bagheera--an arm around each big neck.

"Art thou hurt?" said Baloo, hugging him softly.

"I am sore, hungry, and not a little bruised. But, oh, they have handled ye grievously, my
Brothers! Ye bleed."

"Others also," said Bagheera, licking his lips and looking at the monkey-dead on the terrace
and round the tank.

"It is nothing, it is nothing, if thou art safe, oh, my pride of all little frogs!" whimpered
Baloo.

"Of that we shall judge later," said Bagheera, in a dry voice that Mowgli did not at all like.
"But here is Kaa to whom we owe the battle and thou owest thy life. Thank him according to
our customs, Mowgli."

Mowgli turned and saw the great Python's head swaying a foot above his own.

"So this is the manling," said Kaa. "Very soft is his skin, and he is not unlike the Bandar-log.
Have a care, manling, that I do not mistake thee for a monkey some twilight when I have newly
changed my coat."

"We be one blood, thou and I," Mowgli answered. "I take my life from thee tonight. My kill
shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry, O Kaa."

"All thanks, Little Brother," said Kaa, though his eyes twinkled. "And what may so bold a hunter
kill? I ask that I may follow when next he goes abroad."

"I kill nothing,--I am too little,--but I drive goats toward such as can use them. Since he thus
wrote, his own countrymen, Morel and Lucas, have, by their researches, advanced our knowledge,
and rendered the task of their successors in the same field easier.

Intemperance also, as a cause as distinct from a symptom of insanity, requires to be more thoroughly
examined into, and I am happy to say Dr. Hayes Newington, than whom no one could be better
fitted for the task, has prepared a series of questions arranged in a tabular form, which has
been before the Statistical Committee, and will appear in the Journal.

Again, there remains for the future the continued research into the causal connection between
certain mental symptoms or disorders and accompanying lesions of
the brain and cord. Baloo went down to the
tank for a drink and Bagheera began to put his fur in order, as Kaa glided out into the center
of the terrace and brought his jaws together with a ringing snap that drew all the monkeys'
eyes upon him.

"The moon sets," he said. "Is there yet light enough to see?"

From the walls came a moan like the wind in the tree-tops--"We see, O Kaa."

"Good. Begins now the dance--the Dance of the Hunger of Kaa. Sit still and watch."

He turned twice or thrice in a big circle, weaving his head from right to left. Then he began
making loops and figures of eight with his body, and soft, oozy triangles that melted into
squares and five-sided figures, and coiled mounds, never resting, never hurrying, and never
stopping his low humming song. It grew darker and darker, till at last the dragging, shifting
coils disappeared, but they could hear the rustle of the scales.

Baloo and Bagheera stood still as stone, growling in their throats, their neck hair bristling,
and Mowgli watched and wondered.

"Bandar-log," said the voice of Kaa at last, "can ye stir foot or hand without my order? Speak!"

"Without thy order we cannot stir foot or hand, O Kaa!"

"Good! Come all one pace nearer to me."

The lines of the monkeys swayed forward helplessly, and Baloo and Bagheera took one stiff step
forward with them.

"Nearer!" hissed Kaa, and they all moved again.

Mowgli laid his hands on Baloo and Bagheera to get them away, and the two great beasts started
as though they had been waked from a dream.

"Keep thy hand on my shoulder," Bagheera whispered. "Keep it there, or I must go back--must
go back to Kaa. Aah!"

"It is only old Kaa making circles on the dust," said Mowgli. "Let us go." And the three slipped
off through a gap in the walls to the jungle.

"Whoof!" said Baloo, when he stood under the still trees again. "Never more will I make an
ally of Kaa," and he shook himself all over.

"He knows more than we," said Bagheera, trembling. "In a little time, had I stayed, I should
have walked down his throat."

"Many will walk by that road before the moon rises again," said Baloo. "He will have good hunting--after
his own fashion."

"But what was the meaning of it all?" said Mowgli, who did not know anything of a python's
powers of fascination. "I saw no more than a big snake making foolish circles till the dark
came. And his nose was all sore. Ho! Ho!"

"Mowgli," said Bagheera angrily, "his nose was sore on thy account, as my ears and sides and
paws, and Baloo's neck and shoulders are bitten on thy account. Neither Baloo nor Bagheera
will be able to hunt with pleasure for many days."

"It is nothing," said Baloo; "we have the man-cub again."

"True, but he has cost us heavily in time which might have been spent in good hunting, in wounds,
in hair--I am half plucked along my back--and last of all, in honor. For, remember, Mowgli,
I, who am the Black Panther, was forced to call upon Kaa for protection, and Baloo and I were
both made stupid as little birds by the Hunger Dance. All this, man-cub, came of thy playing
with the Bandar-log."

"True, it is true," said Mowgli sorrowfully. "I am an evil man-cub, and my stomach is sad in me."

"Mf! What says the Law of the Jungle, Baloo?"

Baloo did not wish to bring Mowgli into any more trouble, but he could not tamper with the
Law, so he mumbled: "Sorrow never stays punishment. But remember, Bagheera, he is very little."

"I will remember. But he has done mischief, and blows must be dealt now. Mowgli, hast thou
anything to say?"

"Nothing. I did wrong. Baloo and thou are wounded. It is just."

Bagheera gave him half a dozen love-taps from a panther's point of view (they would hardly
have waked one of his own cubs), but for a seven-year-old boy they amounted to as severe a
beating as you could wish to avoid. When it was all over Mowgli sneezed, and picked himself
up without a word.

"Now," said Bagheera, "jump on my back, Little Brother, and we will go home."

One of the beauties of Jungle Law is that punishment settles all scores. There is no nagging
afterward.

Mowgli laid his head down on Bagheera's back and slept so deeply that he never waked when he
was put down in the home-cave.

Road-Song of the Bandar-Log

     Here we go in a flung festoon,
     Half-way up to the jealous moon!
     Don't you envy our pranceful bands?
     Don't you wish you had extra hands?
     Wouldn't you like if your tails were--so--
     Curved in the shape of a Cupid's bow?
        Now you're angry, but--never mind,
        Brother, thy tail hangs down behind!

     Here we sit in a branchy row,
     Thinking of beautiful things we know;
     Dreaming of deeds that we mean to do,
     All complete, in a minute or two--
     Something noble and wise and good,
     Done by merely wishing we could.
        We've forgotten, but--never mind,
        Brother, thy tail hangs down behind!

     All the talk we ever have heard
     Uttered by bat or beast or bird--
     Hide or fin or scale or feather--
     Jabber it quickly and all together!
     Excellent!  Wonderful!  Once again!

     Now we are talking just like men!
        Let's pretend we are ... never mind,
        Brother, thy tail hangs down behind!
        This is the way of the Monkey-kind.

     Then join our leaping lines that scumfish through the pines,
     That rocket by where, light and high, the wild grape swings.
     By the rubbish in our wake, and the noble noise we make,
     Be sure, be sure, we're going to do some splendid things!

Now we must go back to the first tale.

"Arre! Oh, if I could only tell him what I need of him to-day." Let them breathe. It was then
that Mowgli made up a song that came up into his throat all by itself, and he shouted it aloud,
leaping up and down on the rattling skin, and beating time with his heels till he had no more
breath left, while Gray Brother and Akela howled between the verses.

The White Seal

     Oh! hush thee, my baby, the night is behind us,
        And black are the waters that sparkled so green.
     The moon, o'er the combers, looks downward to find us
        At rest in the hollows that rustle between.
     Where billow meets billow, then soft be thy pillow,
        Ah, weary wee flipperling, curl at thy ease!
     The storm shall not wake thee, nor shark overtake thee,
        Asleep in the arms of the slow-swinging seas!

                                              Seal Lullaby

All these things happened several years ago at a place called Novastoshnah, or North East Point,
on the Island of St. Paul, away and away in the Bering Sea. Limmershin, the Winter Wren, told
me the tale when he was blown on to the rigging of a steamer going to Japan, and I took him
down into my cabin and warmed and fed him for a couple of days till he was fit to fly back
to St. Paul's again. Limmershin is a very quaint little bird, but he knows how to tell the truth.

Nobody comes to Novastoshnah except on business, and the only people who have regular business
there are the seals. They come in the summer months by hundreds and hundreds of thousands out
of the cold gray sea. For Novastoshnah Beach has the finest accommodation for seals of any
place in all the world.

Sea Catch knew that, and every spring would swim from whatever place he happened to be in--would
swim like a torpedo-boat straight for Novastoshnah and spend a month fighting with his companions
for a good place on the rocks, as close to the sea as possible. Sea Catch was fifteen years
old, a huge gray fur seal with almost a mane on his shoulders, and long, wicked dog teeth.
When he heaved himself up on his front flippers he stood more than four feet clear of the ground,
and his weight, if anyone had been bold enough to weigh him, was nearly seven hundred pounds.
He was scarred all over with the marks of savage fights, but he was always ready for just one
fight more. He would put his head on one side, as though he were afraid to look his enemy in
the face; then he would shoot it out like lightning, and when the big teeth were firmly fixed
on the other seal's neck, the other seal might get away if he could, but Sea Catch would not
help him.

Yet Sea Catch never chased a beaten seal, for that was against the Rules of the Beach. He only
wanted room by the sea for his nursery. But as there were forty or fifty thousand other seals
hunting for the same thing each spring, the whistling, bellowing, roaring, and blowing on the
beach was something frightful.

From a little hill called Hutchinson's Hill, you could look over three and a half miles of
ground covered with fighting seals; and the surf was dotted all over with the heads of seals
hurrying to land and begin their share of the fighting. They fought in the breakers, they fought
in the sand, and they fought on the smooth-worn basalt rocks of the nurseries, for they were
just as stupid and unaccommodating as men. Their wives never came to the island until late
in May or early in June, for they did not care to be torn to pieces; and the young two-, three-,
and four-year-old seals who had not begun housekeeping went inland about half a mile through
the ranks of the fighters and played about on the sand dunes in droves and legions, and rubbed
off every single green thing that grew. They were called the holluschickie--the bachelors--and
there were perhaps two or three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah alone.

Sea Catch had just finished his forty-fifth fight one spring when Matkah, his soft, sleek,
gentle-eyed wife, came up out of the sea, and he caught her by the scruff of the neck and dumped
her down on his reservation, saying gruffly: "Late as usual. Where have you been?"

It was not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during the four months he stayed on the
beaches, and so his temper was generally bad. Matkah knew better than to answer back. She looked
round and cooed: "How thoughtful of you. You've taken the old place again."

"I should think I had," said Sea Catch. "Look at me!"

He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places; one eye was almost out, and his sides were
torn to ribbons.

"Oh, you men, you men!" Matkah said, fanning herself with her hind flipper. "Why can't you
be sensible and settle your places quietly? You look as though you had been fighting with the
Killer Whale."

"I haven't been doing anything but fight since the middle of May. The beach is disgracefully
crowded this season. I've met at least a hundred seals from Lukannon Beach, house hunting.
Why can't people stay where they belong?"

"I've often thought we should be much happier if we hauled out at Otter Island instead of this
crowded place," said Matkah.

"Bah! Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island. If we went there they would say we were afraid.
We must preserve appearances, my dear."

Sea Catch sunk his head proudly between his fat shoulders and pretended to go to sleep for
a few minutes, but all the time he was keeping a sharp lookout for a fight. Now that all the
seals and their wives were on the land, you could hear their clamor miles out to sea above
the loudest gales. At the lowest counting there were over a million seals on the beach--old
seals, mother seals, tiny babies, and holluschickie, fighting, scuffling, bleating, crawling,
and playing together--going down to the sea and coming up from it in gangs and regiments, lying
over every foot of ground as far as the eye could reach, and skirmishing about in brigades
through the fog. It is nearly always foggy at Novastoshnah, except when the sun comes out and
makes everything look all pearly and rainbow-colored for a little while.

Kotick, Matkah's baby, was born in the middle of that confusion, and he was all head and shoulders,
with pale, watery blue eyes, as tiny seals must be, but there was something about his coat
that made his mother look at him very closely.

"Sea Catch," she said, at last, "our baby's going to be white!"

"Empty clam-shells and dry seaweed!" snorted Sea Catch. "There never has been such a thing
in the world as a white seal."

"I can't help that," said Matkah; "there's going to be now." And she sang the low, crooning
seal song that all the mother seals sing to their babies:

     You mustn't swim till you're six weeks old,
        Or your head will be sunk by your heels;
     And summer gales and Killer Whales
        Are bad for baby seals.

     Are bad for baby seals, dear rat,
        As bad as bad can be;
     But splash and grow strong,
     And you can't be wrong.
        Child of the Open Sea!

Of course the little fellow did not understand the words at first. He paddled and scrambled
about by his mother's side, and learned to scuffle out of the way when his father was fighting
with another seal, and the two rolled and roared up and down the slippery rocks. Matkah used
to go to sea to get things to eat, and the baby was fed only once in two days, but then he
ate all he could and throve upon it.

The first thing he did was to crawl inland, and there he met tens of thousands of babies of
his own age, and they played together like puppies, went to sleep on the clean sand, and played
again. The old people in the nurseries took no notice of them, and the holluschickie kept to
their own grounds, and the babies had a beautiful playtime.

When Matkah came back from her deep-sea fishing she would go straight to their playground and
call as a sheep calls for a lamb, and wait until she heard Kotick bleat. Then she would take
the straightest of straight lines in his direction, striking out with her fore flippers and
knocking the youngsters head over heels right and left. There were always a few hundred mothers
hunting for their children through the playgrounds, and the babies were kept lively. But, as
Matkah told Kotick, "So long as you don't lie in muddy water and get mange, or rub the hard
sand into a cut or scratch, and so long as you never go swimming when there is a heavy sea,
nothing will hurt you here."

Little seals can no more swim than little children, but they are unhappy till they learn. The
first time that Kotick went down to the sea a wave carried him out beyond his depth, and his
big head sank and his little hind flippers flew up exactly as his mother had told him in the
song, and if the next wave had not thrown him back again he would have drowned.

After that, he learned to lie in a beach pool and let the wash of the waves just cover him
and lift him up while he paddled, but he always kept his eye open for big waves that might
hurt. He was two weeks learning to use his flippers; and all that while he floundered in and
out of the water, and coughed and grunted and crawled up the beach and took catnaps on the
sand, and went back again, until at last he found that he truly belonged to the water.

Then you can imagine the times that he had with his companions, ducking under the rollers;
or coming in on top of a comber and landing with a swash and a splutter as the big wave went
whirling far up the beach; or standing up on his tail and scratching his head as the old people
did; or playing "I'm the King of the Castle" on slippery, weedy rocks that just stuck out of
the wash. Now and then he would see a thin fin, like a big shark's fin, drifting along close
to shore, and he knew that that was the Killer Whale, the Grampus, who eats young seals when
he can get them; and Kotick would head for the beach like an arrow, and the fin would jig off
slowly, as if it were looking for nothing at all.

Late in October the seals began to leave St. Paul's for the deep sea, by families and tribes,
and there was no more fighting over the nurseries, and the holluschickie played anywhere they
liked. "Next year," said Matkah to Kotick, "you will be a holluschickie; but this year you
must learn how to catch fish."

They set out together across the Pacific, and Matkah showed Kotick how to sleep on his back
with his flippers tucked down by his side and his little nose just out of the water. No cradle
is so comfortable as the long, rocking swell of the Pacific. When Kotick felt his skin tingle
all over, Matkah told him he was learning the "feel of the water," and that tingly, prickly
feelings meant bad weather coming, and he must swim hard and get away.

"In a little time," she said, "you'll know where to swim to, but just now we'll follow Sea
Pig, the Porpoise, for he is very wise." A school of porpoises were ducking and tearing through
the water, and little Kotick followed them as fast as he could. "How do you know where to go
to?" he panted. The leader of the school rolled his white eye and ducked under. "My tail tingles,
youngster," he said. "That means there's a gale behind me. Come along! When you're south of
the Sticky Water [he meant the Equator] and your tail tingles, that means there's a gale in
front of you and you must head north. Come along! The water feels bad here."

This was one of very many things that Kotick learned, and he was always learning. Matkah taught
him to follow the cod and the halibut along the under-sea banks and wrench the rockling out
of his hole among the weeds; how to skirt the wrecks lying a hundred fathoms below water and
dart like a rifle bullet in at one porthole and out at another as the fishes ran; how to dance
on the top of the waves when the lightning was racing all over the sky, and wave his flipper
politely to the stumpy-tailed Albatross and the Man-of-war Hawk as they went down the wind;
how to jump three or four feet clear of the water like a dolphin, flippers close to the side
and tail curved; to leave the flying fish alone because they are all bony; to take the shoulder-piece
out of a cod at full speed ten fathoms deep, and never to stop and look at a boat or a ship,
but particularly a row-boat. At the end of six months what Kotick did not know about deep-sea
fishing was not worth the knowing. And all that time he never set flipper on dry ground.

One day, however, as he was lying half asleep in the warm water somewhere off the Island of
Juan Fernandez, he felt faint and lazy all over, just as human people do when the spring is
in their legs, and he remembered the good firm beaches of Novastoshnah seven thousand miles
away, the games his companions played, the smell of the seaweed, the seal roar, and the fighting.
That very minute he turned north, swimming steadily, and as he went on he met scores of his
mates, all bound for the same place, and they said: "Greeting, Kotick! This year we are all
holluschickie, and we can dance the Fire-dance in the breakers off Lukannon and play on the
new grass. But where did you get that coat?"

Kotick's fur was almost pure white now, and though he felt very proud of it, he only said,
"Swim quickly! My bones are aching for the land." And so they all came to the beaches where
they had been born, and heard the old seals, their fathers, fighting in the rolling mist.

That night Kotick danced the Fire-dance with the yearling seals. The sea is full of fire on
summer nights all the way down from Novastoshnah to Lukannon, and each seal leaves a wake like
burning oil behind him and a flaming flash when he jumps, and the waves break in great phosphorescent
streaks and swirls. Then they went inland to the holluschickie grounds and rolled up and down
in the new wild wheat and told stories of what they had done while they had been at sea. They
talked about the Pacific as boys would talk about a wood that they had been nutting in, and
if anyone had understood them he could have gone away and made such a chart of that ocean as
never was. The three- and four-year-old holluschickie romped down from Hutchinson's Hill crying:
"Out of the way, youngsters! The sea is deep and you don't know all that's in it yet. Wait
till you've rounded the Horn. Hi, you yearling, where did you get that white coat?"

"I didn't get it," said Kotick. "It grew." And just as he was going to roll the speaker over,
a couple of black-haired men with flat red faces came from behind a sand dune, and Kotick,
who had never seen a man before, coughed and lowered his head. The holluschickie just bundled
off a few yards and sat staring stupidly. The men were no less than Kerick Booterin, the chief
of the seal-hunters on the island, and Patalamon, his son. They came from the little village
not half a mile from the sea nurseries, and they were deciding what seals they would drive
up to the killing pens--for the seals were driven just like sheep--to be turned into seal-skin
jackets later on.

"Ho!" said Patalamon. "Look! There's a white seal!"

Kerick Booterin turned nearly white under his oil and smoke, for he was an Aleut, and Aleuts
are not clean people. Then he began to mutter a prayer. "Don't touch him, Patalamon. There
has never been a white seal since--since I was born. Perhaps it is old Zaharrof's ghost. He
was lost last year in the big gale."

"I'm not going near him," said Patalamon. "He's unlucky. Do you really think he is old Zaharrof
come back? I owe him for some gulls' eggs."

"Don't look at him," said Kerick. "Head off that drove of four-year-olds. The men ought to
skin two hundred to-day, but it's the beginning of the season and they are new to the work.
A hundred will do. Quick!"

Patalamon rattled a pair of seal's shoulder bones in front of a herd of holluschickie and they
stopped dead, puffing and blowing. Then he stepped near and the seals began to move, and Kerick
headed them inland, and they never tried to get back to their companions. Hundreds and hundreds
of thousands of seals watched them being driven, but they went on playing just the same. Kotick
was the only one who asked questions, and none of his companions could tell him anything, except
that the men always drove seals in that way for six weeks or two months of every year.

"I am going to follow," he said, and his eyes nearly popped out of his head as he shuffled
along in the wake of the herd.

"The white seal is coming after us," cried Patalamon. "That's the first time a seal has ever
come to the killing-grounds alone."

"Hsh! Don't look behind you," said Kerick. "It is Zaharrof's ghost! I must speak to the priest
about this."

The distance to the killing-grounds was only half a mile, but it took an hour to cover, because
if the seals went too fast Kerick knew that they would get heated and then their fur would
come off in patches when they were skinned. So they went on very slowly, past Sea Lion's Neck,
past Webster House, till they came to the Salt House just beyond the sight of the seals on
the beach. Kotick followed, panting and wondering. He thought that he was at the world's end,
but the roar of the seal nurseries behind him sounded as loud as the roar of a train in a tunnel. You
uttered at least twenty of those notes on the course to-day, and we were bound to have you.
My name is Inspector Pilling, of Scotland Yard, and these gentlemen are my colleagues. We are
five to one, so I suggest that you come quietly."

To the curate he added, as they entered a waiting taxi, "You were quite right, George; the chance
of that little score was a soft thing."

The comments of the Complete Sportsman are best omitted. We are not the author of Pygmalion.

*
* * * *

Illustration: Mistress. "WHY, MARY, ISN'T THIS YOUR SUNDAY AFTERNOON OUT? AREN'T YOU GOING FOR A
WALK THIS LOVELY DAY?"

Mary. "PLEASE, 'M, I'D RATHER STAY IN.

YOU SEE, MOST OF THE PEOPLE OUT ON A SUNDAY IS COUPLES, AND I DON'T LIKE TO BE CONSPICUOUS."

*
* * * *

From the Great North of Scotland Railway's advertisement in The Aberdeen Daily Journal:--

"A train will leave Aberdeen at 7.30 p.m. for Aberdeen."

Thus enabling the cautious Aberdonian to improve his mind by travel
at a minimum of expense.

* * * * *

THE COMPLETE DRAMATIST.

Introductory.

I take it that every able-bodied man and woman in this country wants
to write a play.

Since the news first got about that Orlando What's-his-name made £50,000 out of The Crimson
Sponge, there has been a feeling that only through the medium of the stage can literary art find
its true expression. The successful playwright is indeed a man to be envied. Leaving aside for
the moment the question of super-tax, the prizes which fall to his
lot are worth striving for.

He sees his name (correctly spelt) on 'buses which go to such different spots as Hammersmith
and West Norwood, and his name (spelt incorrectly) beneath the photograph of somebody else in
The Illustrated Butler.

He is a welcome figure at the garden-parties of the elect, who are
always ready to encourage him by accepting free seats for his play;
actor-managers nod to him; editors allow him to contribute without
charge to a symposium on the price of golf balls.

In short he becomes a "prominent figure in London Society"--and, if he is not careful, somebody
will say so.

But even the unsuccessful dramatist has his moments.

I knew a young man who married somebody else's mother, and was allowed by her fourteen gardeners
to amuse himself sometimes by rolling the tennis-court. It was an unsatisfying life; and when
rash acquaintances asked him what he did he used to say that he was reading for the Bar. Now
he says he is writing a play--and we look round the spacious lawns
and terraces and marvel at the run his last one must have had.

However, I assume that you who read this are actually in need of the dibs. Your play must be not
merely a good play but a successful one. How shall this success be achieved?

Frankly I cannot always say. If you came to me and said, "I am on the Stock Exchange, and bulls
are going down," or up, or sideways, or whatever it might be; "there's
no money to be made in the City nowadays, and I want to write a play
instead. How shall I do it?"--well, I couldn't help you. But suppose
you said, "I'm fond of writing; my people always say my letters home
are good enough for Punch. I've got a little idea for a play about
a man and a woman and another woman, and--but perhaps I'd better keep
the plot a secret for the moment. Anyhow it's jolly exciting, and
I can do the dialogue all right. The only thing is, I don't know anything
about technique and stage-craft and the three unities and that sort
of rot. Can you give me a few hints?" Suppose you spoke to me like
this, then I could do something for you. "My dear Sir," I should reply
(or Madam), "you have come to the right shop. Lend me your ear for
a few weeks, and you shall learn just what stage-craft is." And I
should begin with a short homily on

I.--SOLILOQUY.

If you ever read
your Shakspeare--and no dramatist should despise the works of another
dramatist; he may always pick up something in them which may be useful
for his next play--if you ever read your Shakspeare, it is possible
that you have come across this passage:--

"Enter Hamlet.

Ham. To
be, or not to be----"

And so on in the same vein for some thirty
lines. All the population was yelling and screaming
"Clam-eater! Stareek [old man]!" while Sea Vitch rolled from side to side grunting and coughing.

"Now will you tell?" said Kotick, all out of breath.

"Go and ask Sea Cow," said Sea Vitch. "If he is living still, he'll be able to tell you."

"How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him?" said Kotick, sheering off.

"He's the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch," screamed a Burgomaster gull, wheeling
under Sea Vitch's nose. "Uglier, and with worse manners! Stareek!"

Kotick swam back to Novastoshnah, leaving the gulls to scream. There he found that no one sympathized
with him in his little attempt to discover a quiet place for the seals. They told him that
men had always driven the holluschickie--it was part of the day's work--and that if he did
not like to see ugly things he should not have gone to the killing grounds. But none of the
other seals had seen the killing, and that made the difference between him and his friends.
Besides, Kotick was a white seal.

"What you must do," said old Sea Catch, after he had heard his son's adventures, "is to grow
up and be a big seal like your father, and have a nursery on the beach, and then they will
leave you alone. In another five years you ought to be able to fight for yourself." Even gentle
Matkah, his mother, said: "You will never be able to stop the killing. Go and play in the sea,
Kotick." And Kotick went off and danced the Fire-dance with a very heavy little heart.

That autumn he left the beach as soon as he could, and set off alone because of a notion in
his bullet-head. He was going to find Sea Cow, if there was such a person in the sea, and he
was going to find a quiet island with good firm beaches for seals to live on, where men could
not get at them. So he explored and explored by himself from the North to the South Pacific,
swimming as much as three hundred miles in a day and a night. He met with more adventures than
can be told, and narrowly escaped being caught by the Basking Shark, and the Spotted Shark,
and the Hammerhead, and he met all the untrustworthy ruffians that loaf up and down the seas,
and the heavy polite fish, and the scarlet spotted scallops that are moored in one place for
hundreds of years, and grow very proud of it; but he never met Sea Cow, and he never found
an island that he could fancy.

If the beach was good and hard, with a slope behind it for seals to play on, there was always
the smoke of a whaler on the horizon, boiling down blubber, and Kotick knew what that meant.
Or else he could see that seals had once visited the island and been killed off, and Kotick
knew that where men had come once they would come again.

He picked up with an old stumpy-tailed albatross, who told him that Kerguelen Island was the
very place for peace and quiet, and when Kotick went down there he was all but smashed to pieces
against some wicked black cliffs in a heavy sleet-storm with lightning and thunder. Yet as
he pulled out against the gale he could see that even there had once been a seal nursery. And
it was so in all the other islands that he visited.

Limmershin gave a long list of them, for he said that Kotick spent five seasons exploring,
with a four months' rest each year at Novastoshnah, when the holluschickie used to make fun
of him and his imaginary islands. He went to the Gallapagos, a horrid dry place on the Equator,
where he was nearly baked to death; he went to the Georgia Islands, the Orkneys, Emerald Island,
Little Nightingale Island, Gough's Island, Bouvet's Island, the Crossets, and even to a little
speck of an island south of the Cape of Good Hope. But everywhere the People of the Sea told
him the same things. Seals had come to those islands once upon a time, but men had killed them
all off. Even when he swam thousands of miles out of the Pacific and got to a place called
Cape Corrientes (that was when he was coming back from Gough's Island), he found a few hundred
mangy seals on a rock and they told him that men came there too.

That nearly broke his heart, and he headed round the Horn back to his own beaches; and on his
way north he hauled out on an island full of green trees, where he found an old, old seal who
was dying, and Kotick caught fish for him and told him all his sorrows. "Now," said Kotick,
"I am going back to Novastoshnah, and if I am driven to the killing-pens with the holluschickie
I shall not care."

The old seal said, "Try once more. I am the last of the Lost Rookery of Masafuera, and in the
days when men killed us by the hundred thousand there was a story on the beaches that some
day a white seal would come out of the North and lead the seal people to a quiet place. I am
old, and I shall never live to see that day, but others will. Try once more."

And Kotick curled up his mustache (it was a beauty) and said, "I am the only white seal that
has ever been born on the beaches, and I am the only seal, black or white, who ever thought
of looking for new islands."

This cheered him immensely; and when he came back to Novastoshnah that summer, Matkah, his
mother, begged him to marry and settle down, for he was no longer a holluschick but a full-grown
sea-catch, with a curly white mane on his shoulders, as heavy, as big, and as fierce as his
father. "Give me another season," he said. "Remember, Mother, it is always the seventh wave
that goes farthest up the beach."

Curiously enough, there was another seal who thought that she would put off marrying till the
next year, and Kotick danced the Fire-dance with her all down Lukannon Beach the night before
he set off on his last exploration. This time he went westward, because he had fallen on the
trail of a great shoal of halibut, and he needed at least one hundred pounds of fish a day
to keep him in good condition. He chased them till he was tired, and then he curled himself
up and went to sleep on the hollows of the ground swell that sets in to Copper Island. He knew
the coast perfectly well, so about midnight, when he felt himself gently bumped on a weed-bed,
he said, "Hm, tide's running strong tonight," and turning over under water opened his eyes
slowly and stretched. Then he jumped like a cat, for he saw huge things nosing about in the
shoal water and browsing on the heavy fringes of the weeds.

"By the Great Combers of Magellan!" he said, beneath his mustache. "Who in the Deep Sea are
these people?"

They were like no walrus, sea lion, seal, bear, whale, shark, fish, squid, or scallop that
Kotick had ever seen before. They were between twenty and thirty feet long, and they had no
hind flippers, but a shovel-like tail that looked as if it had been whittled out of wet leather.
Their heads were the most foolish-looking things you ever saw, and they balanced on the ends
of their tails in deep water when they weren't grazing, bowing solemnly to each other and waving
their front flippers as a fat man waves his arm.

"Ahem!" said Kotick. "Good sport, gentlemen?" The big things answered by bowing and waving
their flippers like the Frog Footman. When they began feeding again Kotick saw that their upper
lip was split into two pieces that they could twitch apart about a foot and bring together
again with a whole bushel of seaweed between the splits. They tucked the stuff into their mouths
and chumped solemnly.

"Messy style of feeding, that," said Kotick. They bowed again, and Kotick began to lose his
temper. "Very good," he said. "If you do happen to have an extra joint in your front flipper
you needn't show off so. I see you bow gracefully, but I should like to know your names." The
split lips moved and twitched; and the glassy green eyes stared, but they did not speak.

"Well!" said Kotick. "You're the only people I've ever met uglier than Sea Vitch--and with
worse manners."

Then he remembered in a flash what the Burgomaster gull had screamed to him when he was a little
yearling at Walrus Islet, and he tumbled backward in the water, for he knew that he had found
Sea Cow at last.

The sea cows went on schlooping and grazing and chumping in the weed, and Kotick asked them
questions in every language that he had picked up in his travels; and the Sea People talk nearly
as many languages as human beings. But the sea cows did not answer because Sea Cow cannot talk.
He has only six bones in his neck where he ought to have seven, and they say under the sea
that that prevents him from speaking even to his companions. But, as you know, he has an extra
joint in his foreflipper, and by waving it up and down and about he makes what answers to a
sort of clumsy telegraphic code.

By daylight Kotick's mane was standing on end and his temper was gone where the dead crabs
go. Then the Sea Cow began to travel northward very slowly, stopping to hold absurd bowing
councils from time to time, and Kotick followed them, saying to himself, "People who are such
idiots as these are would have been killed long ago if they hadn't found out some safe island.
And what is good enough for the Sea Cow is good enough for the Sea Catch. All the same, I wish
they'd hurry."

It was weary work for Kotick. The herd never went more than forty or fifty miles a day, and
stopped to feed at night, and kept close to the shore all the time; while Kotick swam round
them, and over them, and under them, but he could not hurry them up one-half mile. As they
went farther north they held a bowing council every few hours, and Kotick nearly bit off his
mustache with impatience till he saw that they were following up a warm current of water, and
then he respected them more.

One night they sank through the shiny water--sank like stones--and for the first time since
he had known them began to swim quickly. Kotick followed, and the pace astonished him, for
he never dreamed that Sea Cow was anything of a swimmer. They headed for a cliff by the shore--a
cliff that ran down into deep water, and plunged into a dark hole at the foot of it, twenty
fathoms under the sea. It was a long, long swim, and Kotick badly wanted fresh air before he
was out of the dark tunnel they led him through.

"My wig!" he said, when he rose, gasping and puffing, into open water at the farther end. "It
was a long dive, but it was worth it."

The sea cows had separated and were browsing lazily along the edges of the finest beaches that
Kotick had ever seen. There were long stretches of smooth-worn rock running for miles, exactly
fitted to make seal-nurseries, and there were play-grounds of hard sand sloping inland behind
them, and there were rollers for seals to dance in, and long grass to roll in, and sand dunes
to climb up and down, and, best of all, Kotick knew by the feel of the water, which never deceives
a true sea catch, that no men had ever come there.

The first thing he did was to assure himself that the fishing was good, and then he swam along
the beaches and counted up the delightful low sandy islands half hidden in the beautiful rolling
fog. Away to the northward, out to sea, ran a line of bars and shoals and rocks that would
never let a ship come within six miles of the beach, and between the islands and the mainland
was a stretch of deep water that ran up to the perpendicular cliffs, and somewhere below the
cliffs was the mouth of the tunnel.

"It's Novastoshnah over again, but ten times better," said Kotick. "Sea Cow must be wiser than
I thought. Men can't come down the cliffs, even if there were any men; and the shoals to seaward
would knock a ship to splinters. If any place in the sea is safe, this is it."

He began to think of the seal he had left behind him, but though he was in a hurry to go back
to Novastoshnah, he thoroughly explored the new country, so that he would be able to answer
all questions.

Then he dived and made sure of the mouth of the tunnel, and raced through to the southward.
No one but a sea cow or a seal would have dreamed of there being such a place, and when he
looked back at the cliffs even Kotick could hardly believe that he had been under them.

He was six days going home, though he was not swimming slowly; and when he hauled out just
above Sea Lion's Neck the first person he met was the seal who had been waiting for him, and
she saw by the look in his eyes that he had found his island at last.

But the holluschickie and Sea Catch, his father, and all the other seals laughed at him when
he told them what he had discovered, and a young seal about his own age said, "This is all
very well, Kotick, but you can't come from no one knows where and order us off like this. Remember
we've been fighting for our nurseries, and that's a thing you never did. You preferred prowling
about in the sea."

The other seals laughed at this, and the young seal began twisting his head from side to side.
He had just married that year, and was making a great fuss about it.

"I've no nursery to fight for," said Kotick. "I only want to show you all a place where you
will be safe. What's the use of fighting?"

"Oh, if you're trying to back out, of course I've no more to say," said the young seal with
an ugly chuckle.

"Will you come with me if I win?" said Kotick. And a green light came into his eye, for he
was very angry at having to fight at all.

"Very good," said the young seal carelessly. "If you win, I'll come."

He had no time to change his mind, for Kotick's head was out and his teeth sunk in the blubber
of the young seal's neck. Then he threw himself back on his haunches and hauled his enemy down
the beach, shook him, and knocked him over. Then Kotick roared to the seals: "I've done my
best for you these five seasons past. I've found you the island where you'll be safe, but unless
your heads are dragged off your silly necks you won't believe. I'm going to teach you now.
Look out for yourselves!"

Limmershin told me that never in his life--and Limmershin sees ten thousand big seals fighting
every year--never in all his little life did he see anything like Kotick's charge into the
nurseries. He flung himself at the biggest sea catch he could find, caught him by the throat,
choked him and bumped him and banged him till he grunted for mercy, and then threw him aside
and attacked the next. You see, Kotick had never fasted for four months as the big seals did
every year, and his deep-sea swimming trips kept him in perfect condition, and, best of all,
he had never fought before. His curly white mane stood up with rage, and his eyes flamed, and
his big dog teeth glistened, and he was splendid to look at. Old Sea Catch, his father, saw
him tearing past, hauling the grizzled old seals about as though they had been halibut, and
upsetting the young bachelors in all directions; and Sea Catch gave a roar and shouted: "He
may be a fool, but he is the best fighter on the beaches! Don't tackle your father, my son!
He's with you!"

Kotick roared in answer, and old Sea Catch waddled in with his mustache on end, blowing like
a locomotive, while Matkah and the seal that was going to marry Kotick cowered down and admired
their men-folk. It was a gorgeous fight, for the two fought as long as there was a seal that
dared lift up his head, and when there were none they paraded grandly up and down the beach
side by side, bellowing.

At night, just as the Northern Lights were winking and flashing through the fog, Kotick climbed
a bare rock and looked down on the scattered nurseries and the torn and bleeding seals. "Now,"
he said, "I've taught you your lesson."

"My wig!" said old Sea Catch, boosting himself up stiffly, for he was fearfully mauled. "The
Killer Whale himself could not have cut them up worse. Son, I'm proud of you, and what's more,
I'll come with you to your island--if there is such a place."

"Hear you, fat pigs of the sea. Who comes with me to the Sea Cow's tunnel? Answer, or I shall
teach you again," roared Kotick.

There was a murmur like the ripple of the tide all up and down the beaches. "We will come,"
said thousands of tired voices. "We will follow Kotick, the White Seal."

Then Kotick dropped his head between his shoulders and shut his eyes proudly. He was not a
white seal any more, but red from head to tail. All the same he would have scorned to look
at or touch one of his wounds.

A week later he and his army (nearly ten thousand holluschickie and old seals) went away north
to the Sea Cow's tunnel, Kotick leading them, and the seals that stayed at Novastoshnah called
them idiots. But next spring, when they all met off the fishing banks of the Pacific, Kotick's
seals told such tales of the new beaches beyond Sea Cow's tunnel that more and more seals left
Novastoshnah. Of course it was not all done at once, for the seals are not very clever, and
they need a long time to turn things over in their minds, but year after year more seals went
away from Novastoshnah, and Lukannon, and the other nurseries, to the quiet, sheltered beaches
where Kotick sits all the summer through, getting bigger and fatter and stronger each year,
while the holluschickie play around him, in that sea where no man comes.

Lukannon

This is the great deep-sea song that all the St. Paul seals sing when they are heading back
to their beaches in the summer. It is a sort of very sad seal National Anthem.

     I met my mates in the morning (and, oh, but I am old!)
     Where roaring on the ledges the summer ground-swell rolled;
     I heard them lift the chorus that drowned the breakers' song--
     The Beaches of Lukannon--two million voices strong.

     The song of pleasant stations beside the salt lagoons,
     The song of blowing squadrons that shuffled down the dunes,
     The song of midnight dances that churned the sea to flame--
     The Beaches of Lukannon--before the sealers came!

     I met my mates in the morning (I'll never meet them more!);
     They came and went in legions that darkened all the shore.
     And o'er the foam-flecked offing as far as voice could reach
     We hailed the landing-parties and we sang them up the beach.

     The Beaches of Lukannon--the winter wheat so tall--
     The dripping, crinkled lichens, and the sea-fog drenching all!
     The platforms of our playground, all shining smooth and worn!
     The Beaches of Lukannon--the home where we were born!

     I met my mates in the morning, a broken, scattered band.
     Men shoot us in the water and club us on the land;
     Men drive us to the Salt House like silly sheep and tame,
     And still we sing Lukannon--before the sealers came.

     Wheel down, wheel down to southward; oh, Gooverooska, go!
     And tell the Deep-Sea Viceroys the story of our woe;
     Ere, empty as the shark's egg the tempest flings ashore,
     The Beaches of Lukannon shall know their sons no more!
     I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar-cane:
        I will go out to my own kind, and the wood-folk in their lairs.

     I will go out until the day, until the morning break--
        Out to the wind's untainted kiss, the water's clean caress;
     I will forget my ankle-ring and snap my picket stake.
        I will revisit my lost loves, and playmates masterless!

Kala Nag, which means Black Snake, had served the Indian Government in every way that an elephant
could serve it for forty-seven years, and as he was fully twenty years old when he was caught,
that makes him nearly seventy--a ripe age for an elephant. He remembered pushing, with a big
leather pad on his forehead, at a gun stuck in deep mud, and that was before the Afghan War
of 1842, and he had not then come to his full strength.

His mother Radha Pyari,--Radha the darling,--who had been caught in the same drive with Kala
Nag, told him, before his little milk tusks had dropped out, that elephants who were afraid
always got hurt. Kala Nag knew that that advice was good, for the first time that he saw a
shell burst he backed, screaming, into a stand of piled rifles, and the bayonets pricked him
in all his softest places. So, before he was twenty-five, he gave up being afraid, and so he
was the best-loved and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of India.
He had carried tents, twelve hundred pounds' weight of tents, on the march in Upper India.
He had been hoisted into a ship at the end of a steam crane and taken for days across the water,
and made to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India,
and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in Magdala, and had come back again in the steamer
entitled, so the soldiers said, to the Abyssinian War medal. He had seen his fellow elephants
die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid, ten
years later; and afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles south to haul and pile
big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein. There he had half killed an insubordinate
young elephant who was shirking his fair share of work.

After that he was taken off timber-hauling, and employed, with a few score other elephants
who were trained to the business, in helping to catch wild elephants among the Garo hills.
Elephants are very strictly preserved by the Indian Government. There is one whole department
which does nothing else but hunt them, and catch them, and break them in, and send them up
and down the country as they are needed for work.

Kala Nag stood ten fair feet at the shoulders, and his tusks had been cut off short at five
feet, and bound round the ends, to prevent them splitting, with bands of copper; but he could
do more with those stumps than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpened ones.
When, after weeks and weeks of cautious driving of scattered elephants across the hills, the
forty or fifty wild monsters were driven into the last stockade, and the big drop gate, made
of tree trunks lashed together, jarred down behind them, Kala Nag, at the word of command,
would go into that flaring, trumpeting pandemonium (generally at night, when the flicker of
the torches made it difficult to judge distances), and, picking out the biggest and wildest
tusker of the mob, would hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the backs of
the other elephants roped and tied the smaller ones.

There was nothing in the way of fighting that Kala Nag, the old wise Black Snake, did not know,
for he had stood up more than once in his time to the charge of the wounded tiger, and, curling
up his soft trunk to be out of harm's way, had knocked the springing brute sideways in mid-air
with a quick sickle cut of his head, that he had invented all by himself; had knocked him over,
and kneeled upon him with his huge knees till the life went out with a gasp and a howl, and
there was only a fluffy striped thing on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail.

"Yes," said Big Toomai, his driver, the son of Black Toomai who had taken him to Abyssinia,
and grandson of Toomai of the Elephants who had seen him caught, "there is nothing that the
Black Snake fears except me. He has seen three generations of us feed him and groom him, and
he will live to see four."

"He is afraid of me also," said Little Toomai, standing up to his full height of four feet,
with only one rag upon him. He was ten years old, the eldest son of Big Toomai, and, according
to custom, he would take his father's place on Kala Nag's neck when he grew up, and would handle
the heavy iron ankus, the elephant goad, that had been worn smooth by his father, and his grandfather,
and his great-grandfather.

He knew what he was talking of; for he had been born under Kala Nag's shadow, had played with
the end of his trunk before he could walk, had taken him down to water as soon as he could
walk, and Kala Nag would no more have dreamed of disobeying his shrill little orders than he
would have dreamed of killing him on that day when Big Toomai carried the little brown baby
under Kala Nag's tusks, and told him to salute his master that was to be.

"Yes," said Little Toomai, "he is afraid of me," and he took long strides up to Kala Nag, called
him a fat old pig, and made him lift up his feet one after the other.

"Wah!" said Little Toomai, "thou art a big elephant," and he wagged his fluffy head, quoting
his father. "The Government may pay for elephants, but they belong to us mahouts. When thou
art old, Kala Nag, there will come some rich rajah, and he will buy thee from the Government,
on account of thy size and thy manners, and then thou wilt have nothing to do but to carry
gold earrings in thy ears, and a gold howdah on thy back, and a red cloth covered with gold
on thy sides, and walk at the head of the processions of the King. Then I shall sit on thy
neck, O Kala Nag, with a silver ankus, and men will run before us with golden sticks, crying,
`Room for the King's elephant!' That will be good, Kala Nag, but not so good as this hunting
in the jungles."

"Umph!" said Big Toomai. "Thou art a boy, and as wild as a buffalo-calf. This running up and
down among the hills is not the best Government service. I am getting old, and I do not love
wild elephants. Give me brick elephant lines, one stall to each elephant, and big stumps to
tie them to safely, and flat, broad roads to exercise upon, instead of this come-and-go camping.
Aha, the Cawnpore barracks were good. There was a bazaar close by, and only three hours' work
a day."

Little Toomai remembered the Cawnpore elephant-lines and said nothing. He very much preferred
the camp life, and hated those broad, flat roads, with the daily grubbing for grass in the
forage reserve, and the long hours when there was nothing to do except to watch Kala Nag fidgeting
in his pickets.

What Little Toomai liked was to scramble up bridle paths that only an elephant could take;
the dip into the valley below; the glimpses of the wild elephants browsing miles away; the
rush of the frightened pig and peacock under Kala Nag's feet; the blinding warm rains, when
all the hills and valleys smoked; the beautiful misty mornings when nobody knew where they
would camp that night; the steady, cautious drive of the wild elephants, and the mad rush and
blaze and hullabaloo of the last night's drive, when the elephants poured into the stockade
like boulders in a landslide, found that they could not get out, and flung themselves at the
heavy posts only to be driven back by yells and flaring torches and volleys of blank cartridge.

Even a little boy could be of use there, and Toomai was as useful as three boys. He would get
his torch and wave it, and yell with the best. But the really good time came when the driving
out began, and the Keddah--that is, the stockade--looked like a picture of the end of the world,
and men had to make signs to one another, because they could not hear themselves speak. Then
Little Toomai would climb up to the top of one of the quivering stockade posts, his sun-bleached
brown hair flying loose all over his shoulders, and he looking like a goblin in the torch-light.
And as soon as there was a lull you could hear his high-pitched yells of encouragement to Kala
Nag, above the trumpeting and crashing, and snapping of ropes, and groans of the tethered elephants.
"Mael, mael, Kala Nag! (Go on, go on, Black Snake!) Dant do! (Give him the tusk!) Somalo! Somalo!
(Careful, careful!) Maro! Mar! (Hit him, hit him!) Mind the post! Arre! Arre! Hai! Yai! Kya-a-ah!"
he would shout, and the big fight between Kala Nag and the wild elephant would sway to and
fro across the Keddah, and the old elephant catchers would wipe the sweat out of their eyes,
and find time to nod to Little Toomai wriggling with joy on the top of the posts.

He did more than wriggle. One night he slid down from the post and slipped in between the elephants
and threw up the loose end of a rope, which had dropped, to a driver who was trying to get
a purchase on the leg of a kicking young calf (calves always give more trouble than full-grown
animals). Kala Nag saw him, caught him in his trunk, and handed him up to Big Toomai, who slapped
him then and there, and put him back on the post.

Next morning he gave him a scolding and said, "Are not good brick elephant lines and a little
tent carrying enough, that thou must needs go elephant catching on thy own account, little
worthless? Now those foolish hunters, whose pay is less than my pay, have spoken to Petersen
Sahib of the matter." Little Toomai was frightened. He did not know much of white men, but
Petersen Sahib was the greatest white man in the world to him. He was the head of all the Keddah
operations--the man who caught all the elephants for the Government of India, and who knew
more about the ways of elephants than any living man.

"What--what will happen?" said Little Toomai.

"Happen! The worst that can happen. Petersen Sahib is a madman. Else why should he go hunting
these wild devils? He may even require thee to be an elephant catcher, to sleep anywhere in
these fever-filled jungles, and at last to be trampled to death in the Keddah. It is well that
this nonsense ends safely. Next week the catching is over, and we of the plains are sent back
to our stations. Then we will march on smooth roads, and forget all this hunting. But, son,
I am angry that thou shouldst meddle in the business that belongs to these dirty Assamese jungle
folk. Kala Nag will obey none but me, so I must go with him into the Keddah, but he is only
a fighting elephant, and he does not help to rope them. So I sit at my ease, as befits a mahout,--not
a mere hunter,--a mahout, I say, and a man who gets a pension at the end of his service. Is
the family of Toomai of the Elephants to be trodden underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah? Bad
one! Wicked one! Worthless son! Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ears, and see that there
are no thorns in his feet. Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild
hunter--a follower of elephant's foot tracks, a jungle bear. Bah! Shame! Go!"

Little Toomai went off without saying a word, but he told Kala Nag all his grievances while
he was examining his feet. "No matter," said Little Toomai, turning up the fringe of Kala Nag's
huge right ear. "They have said my name to Petersen Sahib, and perhaps--and perhaps--and perhaps--who
knows? Hai! That is a big thorn that I have pulled out!"

The next few days were spent in getting the elephants together, in walking the newly caught
wild elephants up and down between a couple of tame ones to prevent them giving too much trouble
on the downward march to the plains, and in taking stock of the blankets and ropes and things
that had been worn out or lost in the forest.

Petersen Sahib came in on his clever she-elephant Pudmini; he had been paying off other camps
among the hills, for the season was coming to an end, and there was a native clerk sitting
at a table under a tree, to pay the drivers their wages. As each man was paid he went back
to his elephant, and joined the line that stood ready to start. The catchers, and hunters,
and beaters, the men of the regular Keddah, who stayed in the jungle year in and year out,
sat on the backs of the elephants that belonged to Petersen Sahib's permanent force, or leaned
against the trees with their guns across their arms, and made fun of the drivers who were going
away, and laughed when the newly caught elephants broke the line and ran about.

Big Toomai went up to the clerk with Little Toomai behind him, and Machua Appa, the head tracker,
said in an undertone to a friend of his, "There goes one piece of good elephant stuff at least.
'Tis a pity to send that young jungle-cock to molt in the plains."

Now Petersen Sahib had ears all over him, as a man must have who listens to the most silent
of all living things--the wild elephant. He turned where he was lying all along on Pudmini's
back and said, "What is that? I did not know of a man among the plains-drivers who had wit
enough to rope even a dead elephant."

"This is not a man, but a boy. He went into the Keddah at the last drive, and threw Barmao
there the rope, when we were trying to get that young calf with the blotch on his shoulder
away from his mother."

Machua Appa pointed at Little Toomai, and Petersen Sahib looked, and Little Toomai bowed to
the earth.

"He throw a rope? He is smaller than a picket-pin. Little one, what is thy name?" said Petersen
Sahib.

Little Toomai was too frightened to speak, but Kala Nag was behind him, and Toomai made a sign
with his hand, and the elephant caught him up in his trunk and held him level with Pudmini's
forehead, in front of the great Petersen Sahib. Then Little Toomai covered his face with his
hands, for he was only a child, and except where elephants were concerned, he was just as bashful
as a child could be.

"Oho!" said Petersen Sahib, smiling underneath his mustache, "and why didst thou teach thy
elephant that trick? Was it to help thee steal green corn from the roofs of the houses when
the ears are put out to dry?"

"Not green corn, Protector of the Poor,--melons," said Little Toomai, and all the men sitting
about broke into a roar of laughter. Most of them had taught their elephants that trick when
they were boys. Little Toomai was hanging eight feet up in the air, and he wished very much
that he were eight feet underground.

"He is Toomai, my son, Sahib," said Big Toomai, scowling. "He is a very bad boy, and he will
end in a jail, Sahib."

"Of that I have my doubts," said Petersen Sahib. "A boy who can face a full Keddah at his age
does not end in jails. See, little one, here are four annas to spend in sweetmeats because
thou hast a little head under that great thatch of hair. In time thou mayest become a hunter
too." Big Toomai scowled more than ever. "Remember, though, that Keddahs are not good for children
to play in," Petersen Sahib went on.

"Must I never go there, Sahib?" asked Little Toomai with a big gasp.

"Yes." Petersen Sahib smiled again. "When thou hast seen the elephants dance. That is the proper
time. Come to me when thou hast seen the elephants dance, and then I will let thee go into
all the Keddahs."

There was another roar of laughter, for that is an old joke among elephant-catchers, and it
means just never. There are great cleared flat places hidden away in the forests that are called
elephants' ball-rooms, but even these are only found by accident, and no man has ever seen
the elephants dance. When a driver boasts of his skill and bravery the other drivers say, "And
when didst thou see the elephants dance?"

Kala Nag put Little Toomai down, and he bowed to the earth again and went away with his father,
and gave the silver four-anna piece to his mother, who was nursing his baby brother, and they
all were put up on Kala Nag's back, and the line of grunting, squealing elephants rolled down
the hill path to the plains. It was a very lively march on account of the new elephants, who
gave trouble at every ford, and needed coaxing or beating every other minute.

Big Toomai prodded Kala Nag spitefully, for he was very angry, but Little Toomai was too happy
to speak. Petersen Sahib had noticed him, and given him money, so he felt as a private soldier
would feel if he had been called out of the ranks and praised by his commander-in-chief.

"What did Petersen Sahib mean by the elephant dance?" he said, at last, softly to his mother.

Big Toomai heard him and grunted. "That thou shouldst never be one of these hill buffaloes
of trackers. That was what he meant. Oh, you in front, what is blocking the way?"

An Assamese driver, two or three elephants ahead, turned round angrily, crying: "Bring up Kala
Nag, and knock this youngster of mine into good behavior. Why should Petersen Sahib have chosen
me to go down with you donkeys of the rice fields? Lay your beast alongside, Toomai, and let
him prod with his tusks. By all the Gods of the Hills, these new elephants are possessed, or
else they can smell their companions in the jungle." Kala Nag hit the new elephant in the ribs
and knocked the wind out of him, as Big Toomai said, "We have swept the hills of wild elephants
at the last catch. It is only your carelessness in driving. Must I keep order along the whole
line?"

"Hear him!" said the other driver. "We have swept the hills! Ho! Ho! You are very wise, you
plains people. Anyone but a mud-head who never saw the jungle would know that they know that
the drives are ended for the season. Therefore all the wild elephants to-night will--but why
should I waste wisdom on a river-turtle?"

"What will they do?" Little Toomai called out.

"Ohe, little one. Art thou there? Well, I will tell thee, for thou hast a cool head. They will
dance, and it behooves thy father, who has swept all the hills of all the elephants, to double-chain
his pickets to-night."

"What talk is this?" said Big Toomai. "For forty years, father and son, we have tended elephants,
and we have never heard such moonshine about dances."

"Yes; but a plainsman who lives in a hut knows only the four walls of his hut. Well, leave
thy elephants unshackled tonight and see what comes. As for their dancing, I have seen the
place where--Bapree-bap! How many windings has the Dihang River? Here is another ford, and
we must swim the calves. Stop still, you behind there."

And in this way, talking and wrangling and splashing through the rivers, they made their first
march to a sort of receiving camp for the new elephants. But they lost their tempers long before
they got there.

Then the elephants were chained by their hind legs to their big stumps of pickets, and extra
ropes were fitted to the new elephants, and the fodder was piled before them, and the hill
drivers went back to Petersen Sahib through the afternoon light, telling the plains drivers
to be extra careful that night, and laughing when the plains drivers asked the reason.

Little Toomai attended to Kala Nag's supper, and as evening fell, wandered through the camp,
unspeakably happy, in search of a tom-tom. Their hunting grounds were the holes and crevices beneath
the stones or in the water-washed walls of the lake shore. No such shelter was safe from their
curious fingers, and they acquired such dexterity that when bathing they could seize the fish
even in the open water, attracting them by little arts to which the fish submitted as to a kind
of fascination. Such amusements are no doubt the delight of many a lad living in the country,
nor would they be worth recording except as illustrating the unity of Agassiz's intellectual
development from beginning to end. His pet animals suggested questions, to answer which was
the task of his life; and his intimate study of the fresh-water fishes of Europe, later the subject
of one of his important works, began with his first collection from
the Lake of Morat.

As a boy he amused himself also with all kinds of handicrafts on a small scale. The carpenter,
the cobbler, the tailor, were then as much developed in him as the
naturalist.

     In Swiss villages it was the habit in those days for the
     trades-people to go from house to house in their
     different vocations. The shoemaker came two or three
     times a year with all his materials, and made shoes for
        the whole family by the day; the tailor
     came to fit them for garments which
     he made in the house; the cooper arrived
     before the vintage, to repair old barrels and hogsheads or to make
new ones, and to replace their worn-out hoops; in short, to fit up
the cellar for the coming season.

Agassiz seems to have profited by these lessons as much as by those he learned from his father;
and when a very little fellow, he could cut and put together a well-fitting pair of shoes
for his sisters' dolls, was no bad tailor, and could make a miniature barrel that was perfectly
water-tight. He remembered these trivial facts as a valuable part of his incidental education.
He said he owed much of his dexterity in manipulation, to the training
of eye and hand gained in these childish plays. The air was full of all the night noises
that, taken together, make one big silence--the click of one bamboo stem against the other,
the rustle of something alive in the undergrowth, the scratch and squawk of a half-waked bird
(birds are awake in the night much more often than we imagine), and the fall of water ever
so far away. Little Toomai slept for some time, and when he waked it was brilliant moonlight,
and Kala Nag was still standing up with his ears cocked. Little Toomai turned, rustling in
the fodder, and watched the curve of his big back against half the stars in heaven, and while
he watched he heard, so far away that it sounded no more than a pinhole of noise pricked through
the stillness, the "hoot-toot" of a wild elephant.

All the elephants in the lines jumped up as if they had been shot, and their grunts at last
waked the sleeping mahouts, and they came out and drove in the picket pegs with big mallets,
and tightened this rope and knotted that till all was quiet. One new elephant had nearly grubbed
up his picket, and Big Toomai took off Kala Nag's leg chain and shackled that elephant fore-foot
to hind-foot, but slipped a loop of grass string round Kala Nag's leg, and told him to remember
that he was tied fast. He knew that he and his father and his grandfather had done the very
same thing hundreds of times before. Kala Nag did not answer to the order by gurgling, as he
usually did. He stood still, looking out across the moonlight, his head a little raised and
his ears spread like fans, up to the great folds of the Garo hills.

"Tend to him if he grows restless in the night," said Big Toomai to Little Toomai, and he went
into the hut and slept. Little Toomai was just going to sleep, too, when he heard the coir
string snap with a little "tang," and Kala Nag rolled out of his pickets as slowly and as silently
as a cloud rolls out of the mouth of a valley. Little Toomai pattered after him, barefooted,
down the road in the moonlight, calling under his breath, "Kala Nag! Kala Nag! Take me with
you, O Kala Nag!" The elephant turned, without a sound, took three strides back to the boy
in the moonlight, put down his trunk, swung him up to his neck, and almost before Little Toomai
had settled his knees, slipped into the forest.

There was one blast of furious trumpeting from the lines, and then the silence shut down on
everything, and Kala Nag began to move. Sometimes a tuft of high grass washed along his sides
as a wave washes along the sides of a ship, and sometimes a cluster of wild-pepper vines would
scrape along his back, or a bamboo would creak where his shoulder touched it. But between those
times he moved absolutely without any sound, drifting through the thick Garo forest as though
it had been smoke. He was going uphill, but though Little Toomai watched the stars in the rifts
of the trees, he could not tell in what direction.

Then Kala Nag reached the crest of the ascent and stopped for a minute, and Little Toomai could
see the tops of the trees lying all speckled and furry under the moonlight for miles and miles,
and the blue-white mist over the river in the hollow. Toomai leaned forward and looked, and
he felt that the forest was awake below him--awake and alive and crowded. A big brown fruit-eating
bat brushed past his ear; a porcupine's quills rattled in the thicket; and in the darkness
between the tree stems he heard a hog-bear digging hard in the moist warm earth, and snuffing
as it digged.

Then the branches closed over his head again, and Kala Nag began to go down into the valley--not
quietly this time, but as a runaway gun goes down a steep bank--in one rush. The huge limbs
moved as steadily as pistons, eight feet to each stride, and the wrinkled skin of the elbow
points rustled. The undergrowth on either side of him ripped with a noise like torn canvas,
and the saplings that he heaved away right and left with his shoulders sprang back again and
banged him on the flank, and great trails of creepers, all matted together, hung from his tusks
as he threw his head from side to side and plowed out his pathway. Then Little Toomai laid
himself down close to the great neck lest a swinging bough should sweep him to the ground,
and he wished that he were back in the lines again.

The grass began to get squashy, and Kala Nag's feet sucked and squelched as he put them down,
and the night mist at the bottom of the valley chilled Little Toomai. There was a splash and
a trample, and the rush of running water, and Kala Nag strode through the bed of a river, feeling
his way at each step. Above the noise of the water, as it swirled round the elephant's legs,
Little Toomai could hear more splashing and some trumpeting both upstream and down--great grunts
and angry snortings, and all the mist about him seemed to be full of rolling, wavy shadows.

"Ai!" he said, half aloud, his teeth chattering. "The elephant-folk are out tonight. It is
the dance, then!"

Kala Nag swashed out of the water, blew his trunk clear, and began another climb. But this
time he was not alone, and he had not to make his path. That was made already, six feet wide,
in front of him, where the bent jungle-grass was trying to recover itself and stand up. Many
elephants must have gone that way only a few minutes before. Little Toomai looked back, and
behind him a great wild tusker with his little pig's eyes glowing like hot coals was just lifting
himself out of the misty river. Then the trees closed up again, and they went on and up, with
trumpetings and crashings, and the sound of breaking branches on every side of them.

At last Kala Nag stood still between two tree-trunks at the very top of the hill. They were
part of a circle of trees that grew round an irregular space of some three or four acres, and
in all that space, as Little Toomai could see, the ground had been trampled down as hard as
a brick floor. Some trees grew in the center of the clearing, but their bark was rubbed away,
and the white wood beneath showed all shiny and polished in the patches of moonlight. There
were creepers hanging from the upper branches, and the bells of the flowers of the creepers,
great waxy white things like convolvuluses, hung down fast asleep. But within the limits of
the clearing there was not a single blade of green--nothing but the trampled earth.

The moonlight showed it all iron gray, except where some elephants stood upon it, and their
shadows were inky black. Little Toomai looked, holding his breath, with his eyes starting out
of his head, and as he looked, more and more and more elephants swung out into the open from
between the tree trunks. Little Toomai could only count up to ten, and he counted again and
again on his fingers till he lost count of the tens, and his head began to swim. Outside the
clearing he could hear them crashing in the undergrowth as they worked their way up the hillside,
but as soon as they were within the circle of the tree trunks they moved like ghosts.

There were white-tusked wild males, with fallen leaves and nuts and twigs lying in the wrinkles
of their necks and the folds of their ears; fat, slow-footed she-elephants, with restless,
little pinky black calves only three or four feet high running under their stomachs; young
elephants with their tusks just beginning to show, and very proud of them; lanky, scraggy old-maid
elephants, with their hollow anxious faces, and trunks like rough bark; savage old bull elephants,
scarred from shoulder to flank with great weals and cuts of bygone fights, and the caked dirt
of their solitary mud baths dropping from their shoulders; and there was one with a broken
tusk and the marks of the full-stroke, the terrible drawing scrape, of a tiger's claws on his side.

They were standing head to head, or walking to and fro across the ground in couples, or rocking
and swaying all by themselves--scores and scores of elephants.

Toomai knew that so long as he lay still on Kala Nag's neck nothing would happen to him, for
even in the rush and scramble of a Keddah drive a wild elephant does not reach up with his
trunk and drag a man off the neck of a tame elephant. And these elephants were not thinking
of men that night. Once they started and put their ears forward when they heard the chinking
of a leg iron in the forest, but it was Pudmini, Petersen Sahib's pet elephant, her chain snapped
short off, grunting, snuffling up the hillside. She must have broken her pickets and come straight
from Petersen Sahib's camp; and Little Toomai saw another elephant, one that he did not know,
with deep rope galls on his back and breast. He, too, must have run away from some camp in
the hills about.

At last there was no sound of any more elephants moving in the forest, and Kala Nag rolled
out from his station between the trees and went into the middle of the crowd, clucking and
gurgling, and all the elephants began to talk in their own tongue, and to move about.

Still lying down, Little Toomai looked down upon scores and scores of broad backs, and wagging
ears, and tossing trunks, and little rolling eyes. He heard the click of tusks as they crossed
other tusks by accident, and the dry rustle of trunks twined together, and the chafing of enormous
sides and shoulders in the crowd, and the incessant flick and hissh of the great tails. Then
a cloud came over the moon, and he sat in black darkness. But the quiet, steady hustling and
pushing and gurgling went on just the same. He knew that there were elephants all round Kala
Nag, and that there was no chance of backing him out of the assembly; so he set his teeth and
shivered. In a Keddah at least there was torchlight and shouting, but here he was all alone
in the dark, and once a trunk came up and touched him on the knee.

Then an elephant trumpeted, and they all took it up for five or ten terrible seconds. The dew
from the trees above spattered down like rain on the unseen backs, and a dull booming noise
began, not very loud at first, and Little Toomai could not tell what it was. But it grew and
grew, and Kala Nag lifted up one forefoot and then the other, and brought them down on the
ground--one-two, one-two, as steadily as trip-hammers. The elephants were stamping all together
now, and it sounded like a war drum beaten at the mouth of a cave. The dew fell from the trees
till there was no more left to fall, and the booming went on, and the ground rocked and shivered,
and Little Toomai put his hands up to his ears to shut out the sound. But it was all one gigantic
jar that ran through him--this stamp of hundreds of heavy feet on the raw earth. Once or twice
he could feel Kala Nag and all the others surge forward a few strides, and the thumping would
change to the crushing sound of juicy green things being bruised, but in a minute or two the
boom of feet on hard earth began again. A tree was creaking and groaning somewhere near him.
He put out his arm and felt the bark, but Kala Nag moved forward, still tramping, and he could
not tell where he was in the clearing. There was no sound from the elephants, except once,
when two or three little calves squeaked together. Then he heard a thump and a shuffle, and
the booming went on. It must have lasted fully two hours, and Little Toomai ached in every
nerve, but he knew by the smell of the night air that the dawn was coming.

The morning broke in one sheet of pale yellow behind the green hills, and the booming stopped
with the first ray, as though the light had been an order. Before Little Toomai had got the
ringing out of his head, before even he had shifted his position, there was not an elephant
in sight except Kala Nag, Pudmini, and the elephant with the rope-galls, and there was neither
sign nor rustle nor whisper down the hillsides to show where the others had gone.

Little Toomai stared again and again. The clearing, as he remembered it, had grown in the night.
More trees stood in the middle of it, but the undergrowth and the jungle grass at the sides
had been rolled back. Little Toomai stared once more. Now he understood the trampling. The
elephants had stamped out more room--had stamped the thick grass and juicy cane to trash, the
trash into slivers, the slivers into tiny fibers, and the fibers into hard earth.

"Wah!" said Little Toomai, and his eyes were very heavy. "Kala Nag, my lord, let us keep by
Pudmini and go to Petersen Sahib's camp, or I shall drop from thy neck."

The third elephant watched the two go away, snorted, wheeled round, and took his own path.
He may have belonged to some little native king's establishment, fifty or sixty or a hundred
miles away.

Two hours later, as Petersen Sahib was eating early breakfast, his elephants, who had been
double chained that night, began to trumpet, and Pudmini, mired to the shoulders, with Kala
Nag, very footsore, shambled into the camp. Little Toomai's face was gray and pinched, and
his hair was full of leaves and drenched with dew, but he tried to salute Petersen Sahib, and
cried faintly: "The dance--the elephant dance! I have seen it, and--I die!" As Kala Nag sat
down, he slid off his neck in a dead faint.

But, since native children have no nerves worth speaking of, in two hours he was lying very
contentedly in Petersen Sahib's hammock with Petersen Sahib's shooting-coat under his head,
and a glass of warm milk, a little brandy, with a dash of quinine, inside of him, and while
the old hairy, scarred hunters of the jungles sat three deep before him, looking at him as
though he were a spirit, he told his tale in short words, as a child will, and wound up with:

"Now, if I lie in one word, send men to see, and they will find that the elephant folk have
trampled down more room in their dance-room, and they will find ten and ten, and many times
ten, tracks leading to that dance-room. Empowers Commissioners, with sanction of the Secretary
of State, to make regulations for the government of licensed houses.

Enacts that Bethlem Hospital shall be subject to the provisions of Act 8 and 9 Vict., c. 100.

The
third Act (16 and 17 Vict., c. 97) repeals the several Acts then in force respecting county
and borough lunatic asylums, and re-enacts most of the provisions therein contained, with certain
additions and improvements.

It authorizes justices of boroughs, instead of providing asylums
for their own use, or in arranging with counties, etc., to contract
with the Visitors of any asylum for the reception of their pauper
lunatics, in consideration of certain payments.

The powers of the
Visitors were enlarged in many ways.
Yes; she was there too."

They looked at one another and up and down, and they wondered. For the ways of elephants are
beyond the wit of any man, black or white, to fathom.

"Forty years and five," said Machua Appa, "have I followed my lord, the elephant, but never
have I heard that any child of man had seen what this child has seen. By all the Gods of the
Hills, it is--what can we say?" and he shook his head.

When they got back to camp it was time for the evening meal. Petersen Sahib ate alone in his
tent, but he gave orders that the camp should have two sheep and some fowls, as well as a double
ration of flour and rice and salt, for he knew that there would be a feast.

Big Toomai had come up hotfoot from the camp in the plains to search for his son and his elephant,
and now that he had found them he looked at them as though he were afraid of them both. And
there was a feast by the blazing campfires in front of the lines of picketed elephants, and
Little Toomai was the hero of it all. And the big brown elephant catchers, the trackers and
drivers and ropers, and the men who know all the secrets of breaking the wildest elephants,
passed him from one to the other, and they marked his forehead with blood from the breast of
a newly killed jungle-cock, to show that he was a forester, initiated and free of all the jungles.

And at last, when the flames died down, and the red light of the logs made the elephants look
as though they had been dipped in blood too, Machua Appa, the head of all the drivers of all
the Keddahs--Machua Appa, Petersen Sahib's other self, who had never seen a made road in forty
years: Machua Appa, who was so great that he had no other name than Machua Appa,--leaped to
his feet, with Little Toomai held high in the air above his head, and shouted: "Listen, my
brothers. Listen, too, you my lords in the lines there, for I, Machua Appa, am speaking! This
little one shall no more be called Little Toomai, but Toomai of the Elephants, as his great-grandfather
was called before him. What never man has seen he has seen through the long night, and the
favor of the elephant-folk and of the Gods of the Jungles is with him. He shall become a great
tracker. He shall become greater than I, even I, Machua Appa! He shall follow the new trail,
and the stale trail, and the mixed trail, with a clear eye! He shall take no harm in the Keddah
when he runs under their bellies to rope the wild tuskers; and if he slips before the feet
of the charging bull elephant, the bull elephant shall know who he is and shall not crush him.
Aihai! my lords in the chains,"--he whirled up the line of pickets--"here is the little one
that has seen your dances in your hidden places,--the sight that never man saw! Give him honor,
my lords! Salaam karo, my children. Make your salute to Toomai of the Elephants! Gunga Pershad,
ahaa! Hira Guj, Birchi Guj, Kuttar Guj, ahaa! Pudmini,--thou hast seen him at the dance, and
thou too, Kala Nag, my pearl among elephants!--ahaa! Together! To Toomai of the Elephants. Barrao!"

And at that last wild yell the whole line flung up their trunks till the tips touched their
foreheads, and broke out into the full salute--the crashing trumpet-peal that only the Viceroy
of India hears, the Salaamut of the Keddah.

But it was all for the sake of Little Toomai, who had seen what never man had seen before--the
dance of the elephants at night and alone in the heart of the Garo hills!

     Wheat he gave to rich folk, millet to the poor,
     Broken scraps for holy men that beg from door to door;
     Battle to the tiger, carrion to the kite,
     And rags and bones to wicked wolves without the wall at night.
     Naught he found too lofty, none he saw too low--
     Parbati beside him watched them come and go;
     Thought to cheat her husband, turning Shiv to jest--
     Stole the little grasshopper and hid it in her breast.
        So she tricked him, Shiva the Preserver.
        Mahadeo!  Mahadeo!  Turn and see.
        Tall are the camels, heavy are the kine,
        But this was Least of Little Things, O little son of mine!

     When the dole was ended, laughingly she said,
     "Master, of a million mouths, is not one unfed?"
     Laughing, Shiv made answer, "All have had their part,
     Even he, the little one, hidden 'neath thy heart."
     From her breast she plucked it, Parbati the thief,
     Saw the Least of Little Things gnawed a new-grown leaf!
     Saw and feared and wondered, making prayer to Shiv,
     Who hath surely given meat to all that live.

Her Majesty's Servants

     You can work it out by Fractions or by simple Rule of Three,
     But the way of Tweedle-dum is not the way of Tweedle-dee.
     You can twist it, you can turn it, you can plait it till you drop,
     But the way of Pilly Winky's not the way of Winkie Pop!

It had been raining heavily for one whole month--raining on a camp of thirty thousand men and
thousands of camels, elephants, horses, bullocks, and mules all gathered together at a place
called Rawal Pindi, to be reviewed by the Viceroy of India. He was receiving a visit from the
Amir of Afghanistan--a wild king of a very wild country. The Amir had brought with him for
a bodyguard eight hundred men and horses who had never seen a camp or a locomotive before in
their lives--savage men and savage horses from somewhere at the back of Central Asia. Every
night a mob of these horses would be sure to break their heel ropes and stampede up and down
the camp through the mud in the dark, or the camels would break loose and run about and fall
over the ropes of the tents, and you can imagine how pleasant that was for men trying to go
to sleep. My tent lay far away from the camel lines, and I thought it was safe. But one night
a man popped his head in and shouted, "Get out, quick! They're coming! My tent's gone!"

I knew who "they" were, so I put on my boots and waterproof and scuttled out into the slush.
Little Vixen, my fox terrier, went out through the other side; and then there was a roaring
and a grunting and bubbling, and I saw the tent cave in, as the pole snapped, and begin to
dance about like a mad ghost. A camel had blundered into it, and wet and angry as I was, I
could not help laughing. Then I ran on, because I did not know how many camels might have got
loose, and before long I was out of sight of the camp, plowing my way through the mud.

At last I fell over the tail-end of a gun, and by that knew I was somewhere near the artillery
lines where the cannon were stacked at night. As I did not want to plowter about any more in
the drizzle and the dark, I put my waterproof over the muzzle of one gun, and made a sort of
wigwam with two or three rammers that I found, and lay along the tail of another gun, wondering
where Vixen had got to, and where I might be.

Just as I was getting ready to go to sleep I heard a jingle of harness and a grunt, and a mule
passed me shaking his wet ears. He belonged to a screw-gun battery, for I could hear the rattle
of the straps and rings and chains and things on his saddle pad. The screw-guns are tiny little
cannon made in two pieces, that are screwed together when the time comes to use them. They
are taken up mountains, anywhere that a mule can find a road, and they are very useful for
fighting in rocky country.

Behind the mule there was a camel, with his big soft feet squelching and slipping in the mud,
and his neck bobbing to and fro like a strayed hen's. Luckily, I knew enough of beast language--not
wild-beast language, but camp-beast language, of course--from the natives to know what he was
saying.

He must have been the one that flopped into my tent, for he called to the mule, "What shall
I do? Where shall I go? I have fought with a white thing that waved, and it took a stick and
hit me on the neck." (That was my broken tent pole, and I was very glad to know it.) "Shall
we run on?"

"Oh, it was you," said the mule, "you and your friends, that have been disturbing the camp?
All right. You'll be beaten for this in the morning. But I may as well give you something on
account now."

I heard the harness jingle as the mule backed and caught the camel two kicks in the ribs that
rang like a drum. "Another time," he said, "you'll know better than to run through a mule battery
at night, shouting `Thieves and fire!' Sit down, and keep your silly neck quiet."

The camel doubled up camel-fashion, like a two-foot rule, and sat down whimpering. There was
a regular beat of hoofs in the darkness, and a big troop-horse cantered up as steadily as though
he were on parade, jumped a gun tail, and landed close to the mule. 

As will be seen from the list of illustrations, I have also to thank Mrs. John W. Elliot for
her valuable aid in that part of the work.

On the other side of the water I have had most faithful and efficient collaborators. Mr. Auguste
Agassiz, who survived his brother Louis several years, and took the
greatest interest in preserving whatever concerned his scientific
career, confided to my hands many papers and documents belonging to
his brother's earlier life.

After his death, his cousin and brother-in-law, Mr. Auguste Mayor,
of Neuchatel, continued the same affectionate service.

Without their aid I could not have completed the narrative as it now stands.

The friend last named also selected from the glacier of the Aar, at the request of Alexander Agassiz,
the boulder which now marks his father's grave. I am only a baggage camel of the 39th Native Infantry, and I am not as brave as you
are, my lords."

"Then why didn't you stay and carry baggage for the 39th Native Infantry, instead of running
all round the camp?" said the mule.

"They were such very bad dreams," said the camel. "I am sorry. Listen! What is that? Shall
we run on again?"

"Sit down," said the mule, "or you'll snap your long stick-legs between the guns." He cocked
one ear and listened. "Bullocks!" he said. "Gun bullocks. On my word, you and your friends
have waked the camp very thoroughly. It takes a good deal of prodding to put up a gun-bullock."

I heard a chain dragging along the ground, and a yoke of the great sulky white bullocks that
drag the heavy siege guns when the elephants won't go any nearer to the firing, came shouldering
along together. And almost stepping on the chain was another battery mule, calling wildly for
"Billy."

"That's one of our recruits," said the old mule to the troop horse. "He's calling for me. Here,
youngster, stop squealing. The dark never hurt anybody yet."

The gun-bullocks lay down together and began chewing the cud, but the young mule huddled close
to Billy.

"Things!" he said. "Fearful and horrible, Billy! They came into our lines while we were asleep.
D'you think they'll kill us?"

"I've a very great mind to give you a number-one kicking," said Billy. "The idea of a fourteen-hand
mule with your training disgracing the battery before this gentleman!"

"Gently, gently!" said the troop-horse. "Remember they are always like this to begin with.
The first time I ever saw a man (it was in Australia when I was a three-year-old) I ran for
half a day, and if I'd seen a camel, I should have been running still."

Nearly all our horses for the English cavalry are brought to India from Australia, and are
broken in by the troopers themselves.

"True enough," said Billy. "Stop shaking, youngster. The first time they put the full harness
with all its chains on my back I stood on my forelegs and kicked every bit of it off. I hadn't
learned the real science of kicking then, but the battery said they had never seen anything
like it."

"But this wasn't harness or anything that jingled," said the young mule. "You know I don't
mind that now, Billy. It was Things like trees, and they fell up and down the lines and bubbled;
and my head-rope broke, and I couldn't find my driver, and I couldn't find you, Billy, so I
ran off with--with these gentlemen."

"H'm!" said Billy. "As soon as I heard the camels were loose I came away on my own account.
When a battery--a screw-gun mule calls gun-bullocks gentlemen, he must be very badly shaken
up. Who are you fellows on the ground there?"

The gun bullocks rolled their cuds, and answered both together: "The seventh yoke of the first
gun of the Big Gun Battery. We were asleep when the camels came, but when we were trampled
on we got up and walked away. It is better to lie quiet in the mud than to be disturbed on
good bedding. We told your friend here that there was nothing to be afraid of, but he knew
so much that he thought otherwise. Wah!"

They went on chewing.

"That comes of being afraid," said Billy. "You get laughed at by gun-bullocks. I hope you like
it, young un."

The young mule's teeth snapped, and I heard him say something about not being afraid of any
beefy old bullock in the world. But the bullocks only clicked their horns together and went
on chewing.

"Now, don't be angry after you've been afraid. That's the worst kind of cowardice," said the
troop-horse. "Anybody can be forgiven for being scared in the night, I think, if they see things
they don't understand. We've broken out of our pickets, again and again, four hundred and fifty
of us, just because a new recruit got to telling tales of whip snakes at home in Australia
till we were scared to death of the loose ends of our head-ropes."

"That's all very well in camp," said Billy. "I'm not above stampeding myself, for the fun of
the thing, when I haven't been out for a day or two. But what do you do on active service?"

"Oh, that's quite another set of new shoes," said the troop horse. "Dick Cunliffe's on my back
then, and drives his knees into me, and all I have to do is to watch where I am putting my
feet, and to keep my hind legs well under me, and be bridle-wise."

"What's bridle-wise?" said the young mule.

"By the Blue Gums of the Back Blocks," snorted the troop-horse, "do you mean to say that you
aren't taught to be bridle-wise in your business? How can you do anything, unless you can spin
round at once when the rein is pressed on your neck? It means life or death to your man, and
of course that's life and death to you. Get round with your hind legs under you the instant
you feel the rein on your neck. If you haven't room to swing round, rear up a little and come
round on your hind legs. That's being bridle-wise."

"We aren't taught that way," said Billy the mule stiffly. "We're taught to obey the man at
our head: step off when he says so, and step in when he says so. I suppose it comes to the
same thing. Now, with all this fine fancy business and rearing, which must be very bad for
your hocks, what do you do?"

"That depends," said the troop-horse. "Generally I have to go in among a lot of yelling, hairy
men with knives--long shiny knives, worse than the farrier's knives--and I have to take care
that Dick's boot is just touching the next man's boot without crushing it. I can see Dick's
lance to the right of my right eye, and I know I'm safe. I shouldn't care to be the man or
horse that stood up to Dick and me when we're in a hurry."

"Don't the knives hurt?" said the young mule.

"Well, I got one cut across the chest once, but that wasn't Dick's fault--"

"A lot I should have cared whose fault it was, if it hurt!" said the young mule.

"You must," said the troop horse. "If you don't trust your man, you may as well run away at
once. That's what some of our horses do, and I don't blame them. As I was saying, it wasn't
Dick's fault. The man was lying on the ground, and I stretched myself not to tread on him,
and he slashed up at me. Next time I have to go over a man lying down I shall step on him--hard."

"H'm!" said Billy. "It sounds very foolish. Knives are dirty things at any time. The proper
thing to do is to climb up a mountain with a well-balanced saddle, hang on by all four feet
and your ears too, and creep and crawl and wriggle along, till you come out hundreds of feet
above anyone else on a ledge where there's just room enough for your hoofs. Then you stand
still and keep quiet--never ask a man to hold your head, young un--keep quiet while the guns
are being put together, and then you watch the little poppy shells drop down into the tree-tops
ever so far below."

"Don't you ever trip?" said the troop-horse.

"They say that when a mule trips you can split a hen's ear," said Billy. "Now and again perhaps
a badly packed saddle will upset a mule, but it's very seldom. I wish I could show you our
business. It's beautiful. Why, it took me three years to find out what the men were driving
at. The science of the thing is never to show up against the sky line, because, if you do,
you may get fired at. Remember that, young un. Always keep hidden as much as possible, even
if you have to go a mile out of your way. I lead the battery when it comes to that sort of
climbing."

"Fired at without the chance of running into the people who are firing!" said the troop-horse,
thinking hard. "I couldn't stand that. I should want to charge--with Dick."

"Oh, no, you wouldn't. You know that as soon as the guns are in position they'll do all the
charging. That's scientific and neat. But knives--pah!"

The baggage-camel had been bobbing his head to and fro for some time past, anxious to get a
word in edgewise. Then I heard him say, as he cleared his throat, nervously:

"I--I--I have fought a little, but not in that climbing way or that running way."

"No. Now you mention it," said Billy, "you don't look as though you were made for climbing
or running--much. Well, how was it, old Hay-bales?"

"The proper way," said the camel. "We all sat down--"

"Oh, my crupper and breastplate!" said the troop-horse under his breath. "Sat down!"

"We sat down--a hundred of us," the camel went on, "in a big square, and the men piled our
packs and saddles, outside the square, and they fired over our backs, the men did, on all sides
of the square."

"What sort of men? Any men that came along?" said the troop-horse. "They teach us in riding
school to lie down and let our masters fire across us, but Dick Cunliffe is the only man I'd
trust to do that. It tickles my girths, and, besides, I can't see with my head on the ground."

"What does it matter who fires across you?" said the camel. "There are plenty of men and plenty
of other camels close by, and a great many clouds of smoke. I am not frightened then. I sit
still and wait."

"And yet," said Billy, "you dream bad dreams and upset the camp at night. Well, well! Before
I'd lie down, not to speak of sitting down, and let a man fire across me, my heels and his
head would have something to say to each other. Did you ever hear anything so awful as that?"

There was a long silence, and then one of the gun bullocks lifted up his big head and said,
"This is very foolish indeed. There is only one way of fighting."

"Oh, go on," said Billy. "Please don't mind me. I suppose you fellows fight standing on your
tails?"

"Only one way," said the two together. (They must have been twins.) "This is that way. To put
all twenty yoke of us to the big gun as soon as Two Tails trumpets." ("Two Tails" is camp slang
for the elephant.)

"What does Two Tails trumpet for?" said the young mule.

"To show that he is not going any nearer to the smoke on the other side. Two Tails is a great
coward. Then we tug the big gun all together--Heya--Hullah! Heeyah! Hullah! We do not climb
like cats nor run like calves. We go across the level plain, twenty yoke of us, till we are
unyoked again, and we graze while the big guns talk across the plain to some town with mud
walls, and pieces of the wall fall out, and the dust goes up as though many cattle were coming
home."

"Oh! And you choose that time for grazing?" said the young mule.

"That time or any other. Eating is always good. We eat till we are yoked up again and tug the
gun back to where Two Tails is waiting for it. Sometimes there are big guns in the city that
speak back, and some of us are killed, and then there is all the more grazing for those that
are left. This is Fate. None the less, Two Tails is a great coward. That is the proper way
to fight. We are brothers from Hapur. Our father was a sacred bull of Shiva. We have spoken."

"Well, I've certainly learned something tonight," said the troop-horse. "Do you gentlemen of
the screw-gun battery feel inclined to eat when you are being fired at with big guns, and Two
Tails is behind you?"

"About as much as we feel inclined to sit down and let men sprawl all over us, or run into
people with knives. I never heard such stuff. A mountain ledge, a well-balanced load, a driver
you can trust to let you pick your own way, and I'm your mule. But--the other things--no!"
said Billy, with a stamp of his foot.

"Of course," said the troop horse, "everyone is not made in the same way, and I can quite see
that your family, on your father's side, would fail to understand a great many things."

"Never you mind my family on my father's side," said Billy angrily, for every mule hates to
be reminded that his father was a donkey. "My father was a Southern gentleman, and he could
pull down and bite and kick into rags every horse he came across. Remember that, you big brown
Brumby!"

Brumby means wild horse without any breeding. Imagine the feelings of Sunol if a car-horse
called her a "skate," and you can imagine how the Australian horse felt. I saw the white of
his eye glitter in the dark.

"See here, you son of an imported Malaga jackass," he said between his teeth, "I'd have you
know that I'm related on my mother's side to Carbine, winner of the Melbourne Cup, and where
I come from we aren't accustomed to being ridden over roughshod by any parrot-mouthed, pig-headed
mule in a pop-gun pea-shooter battery. Are you ready?"

"On your hind legs!" squealed Billy. They both reared up facing each other, and I was expecting
a furious fight, when a gurgly, rumbly voice, called out of the darkness to the right--"Children,
what are you fighting about there? Be quiet."

Both beasts dropped down with a snort of disgust, for neither horse nor mule can bear to listen
to an elephant's voice.

"It's Two Tails!" said the troop-horse. "I can't stand him. A tail at each end isn't fair!"

"My feelings exactly," said Billy, crowding into the troop-horse for company. "We're very alike
in some things."

"I suppose we've inherited them from our mothers," said the troop horse. "It's not worth quarreling
about. Hi! Two Tails, are you tied up?"

"Yes," said Two Tails, with a laugh all up his trunk. "I'm picketed for the night. I've heard
what you fellows have been saying. But don't be afraid. I'm not coming over."

The bullocks and the camel said, half aloud, "Afraid of Two Tails--what nonsense!" And the
bullocks went on, "We are sorry that you heard, but it is true. Two Tails, why are you afraid
of the guns when they fire?"

"Well," said Two Tails, rubbing one hind leg against the other, exactly like a little boy saying
a poem, "I don't quite know whether you'd understand."

"We don't, but we have to pull the guns," said the bullocks.

"I know it, and I know you are a good deal braver than you think you are. But it's different
with me. My battery captain called me a Pachydermatous Anachronism the other day."

"That's another way of fighting, I suppose?" said Billy, who was recovering his spirits.

"You don't know what that means, of course, but I do. It means betwixt and between, and that
is just where I am. I can see inside my head what will happen when a shell bursts, and you
bullocks can't."

"I can," said the troop-horse. "At least a little bit. I try not to think about it."

"I can see more than you, and I do think about it. I know there's a great deal of me to take
care of, and I know that nobody knows how to cure me when I'm sick. All they can do is to stop
my driver's pay till I get well, and I can't trust my driver."

"Ah!" said the troop horse. "That explains it. I can trust Dick."

"You could put a whole regiment of Dicks on my back without making me feel any better. I know
just enough to be uncomfortable, and not enough to go on in spite of it."

"We do not understand," said the bullocks.

"I know you don't. I'm not talking to you. You don't know what blood is."

"We do," said the bullocks. "It is red stuff that soaks into the ground and smells."

The troop-horse gave a kick and a bound and a snort.

"Don't talk of it," he said. "I can smell it now, just thinking of it. It makes me want to
run--when I haven't Dick on my back."

"But it is not here," said the camel and the bullocks. Dr. Savage has experimented with one drug at a time on a number of
patients, and has already given to the profession some valuable results
in "Guy's Hospital Reports," and the Journal of Mental Science.

"The West Riding Asylum Medical Reports" of Dr. Crichton Browne also
contain some important experiments with drugs by himself and others;
and in this connection I would notice the excellent clinical notes
issued from time to time by Dr. Williams and other officers of the
Haywards Heath Asylum, which are well worthy of more permanent record
in the archives of the Association.

I cannot, indeed, understand any one seriously maintaining that we
are practically no better off in our medicinal resources now than
we were forty years ago.

Whatever differences of opinion may exist in regard to the advantages
gained by the introduction of new drugs, one thing is clear, that
the employment and, let me add, the repose of patients, well-ordered
arrangements, and the tact of the superintendent will oftentimes do
more to reduce the amount of excitement and noise in an asylum than
tons of chloral and bromide.

For example, any one who has visited Hanwell knows that Dr. Rayner
anticipates and prevents post-epileptic mania to a very large extent
by the simple expedient of keeping patients in bed after their fits,
just as he finds forced alimentation of patients rarely necessary
when rest is resorted to.

It is striking to see how, even in an over-grown asylum and an old building, the results of
good management and treatment can be highly satisfactory, and worthy of an institution of such historic
fame.

* * * * *

But, after all, the question faces us, are there or are there not
more insane persons cured in 1881 than in 1841?

 So she stopped to bully Two Tails
in his pickets, and yapped round his big feet. Two Tails shuffled and squeaked. "Go away, little
dog!" he said. "Don't snuff at my ankles, or I'll kick at you. Good little dog--nice little
doggie, then! Go home, you yelping little beast! Oh, why doesn't someone take her away? She'll
bite me in a minute."

"Seems to me," said Billy to the troop horse, "that our friend Two Tails is afraid of most
things. Now, if I had a full meal for every dog I've kicked across the parade-ground I should
be as fat as Two Tails nearly."

I whistled, and Vixen ran up to me, muddy all over, and licked my nose, and told me a long
tale about hunting for me all through the camp. I never let her know that I understood beast
talk, or she would have taken all sorts of liberties. So I buttoned her into the breast of
my overcoat, and Two Tails shuffled and stamped and growled to himself.

"Extraordinary! Most extraordinary!" he said. "It runs in our family. Now, where has that nasty
little beast gone to?"

I heard him feeling about with his trunk.

"We all seem to be affected in various ways," he went on, blowing his nose. "Now, you gentlemen
were alarmed, I believe, when I trumpeted."

"Not alarmed, exactly," said the troop-horse, "but it made me feel as though I had hornets
where my saddle ought to be. Don't begin again."

"I'm frightened of a little dog, and the camel here is frightened by bad dreams in the night."

"It is very lucky for us that we haven't all got to fight in the same way," said the troop-horse.

"What I want to know," said the young mule, who had been quiet for a long time--"what I want
to know is, why we have to fight at all."

"Because we're told to," said the troop-horse, with a snort of contempt.

"Orders," said Billy the mule, and his teeth snapped.

"Hukm hai!" (It is an order!), said the camel with a gurgle, and Two Tails and the bullocks
repeated, "Hukm hai!"

"Yes, but who gives the orders?" said the recruit-mule.

"The man who walks at your head--Or sits on your back--Or holds the nose rope--Or twists your
tail," said Billy and the troop-horse and the camel and the bullocks one after the other.

"But who gives them the orders?"

"Now you want to know too much, young un," said Billy, "and that is one way of getting kicked.
All you have to do is to obey the man at your head and ask no questions."

"He's quite right," said Two Tails. "I can't always obey, because I'm betwixt and between.
But Billy's right. Obey the man next to you who gives the order, or you'll stop all the battery,
besides getting a thrashing."

The gun-bullocks got up to go. "Morning is coming," they said. "We will go back to our lines.
It is true that we only see out of our eyes, and we are not very clever. But still, we are
the only people to-night who have not been afraid. Good-night, you brave people."

Nobody answered, and the troop-horse said, to change the conversation, "Where's that little
dog? A dog means a man somewhere about."

"Here I am," yapped Vixen, "under the gun tail with my man. You big, blundering beast of a
camel you, you upset our tent. My man's very angry."

"Phew!" said the bullocks. "He must be white!"

"Of course he is," said Vixen. "Do you suppose I'm looked after by a black bullock-driver?"

"Huah! Ouach! Ugh!" said the bullocks. "Let us get away quickly."

They plunged forward in the mud, and managed somehow to run their yoke on the pole of an ammunition
wagon, where it jammed.

"Now you have done it," said Billy calmly. "Don't struggle. You're hung up till daylight. What
on earth's the matter?"

The bullocks went off into the long hissing snorts that Indian cattle give, and pushed and
crowded and slued and stamped and slipped and nearly fell down in the mud, grunting savagely.

"You'll break your necks in a minute," said the troop-horse. "What's the matter with white
men? I live with 'em."

"They--eat--us! Pull!" said the near bullock. The yoke snapped with a twang, and they lumbered
off together.

I never knew before what made Indian cattle so scared of Englishmen. We eat beef--a thing that
no cattle-driver touches--and of course the cattle do not like it.

"May I be flogged with my own pad-chains! Who'd have thought of two big lumps like those losing
their heads?" said Billy.

"Never mind. I'm going to look at this man. Most of the white men, I know, have things in their
pockets," said the troop-horse.

"I'll leave you, then. I can't say I'm over-fond of 'em myself. Besides, white men who haven't
a place to sleep in are more than likely to be thieves, and I've a good deal of Government
property on my back. Come along, young un, and we'll go back to our lines. Good-night, Australia!
See you on parade to-morrow, I suppose. Good-night, old Hay-bale!--try to control your feelings,
won't you? Good-night, Two Tails! If you pass us on the ground tomorrow, don't trumpet. It
spoils our formation."

Billy the Mule stumped off with the swaggering limp of an old campaigner, as the troop-horse's
head came nuzzling into my breast, and I gave him biscuits, while Vixen, who is a most conceited
little dog, told him fibs about the scores of horses that she and I kept.

"I'm coming to the parade to-morrow in my dog-cart," she said. "Where will you be?"

"On the left hand of the second squadron. I set the time for all my troop, little lady," he
said politely. "Now I must go back to Dick. My tail's all muddy, and he'll have two hours'
hard work dressing me for parade."

The big parade of all the thirty thousand men was held that afternoon, and Vixen and I had
a good place close to the Viceroy and the Amir of Afghanistan, with high, big black hat of
astrakhan wool and the great diamond star in the center. The first part of the review was all
sunshine, and the regiments went by in wave upon wave of legs all moving together, and guns
all in a line, till our eyes grew dizzy. Then the cavalry came up, to the beautiful cavalry
canter of "Bonnie Dundee," and Vixen cocked her ear where she sat on the dog-cart. The second
squadron of the Lancers shot by, and there was the troop-horse, with his tail like spun silk,
his head pulled into his breast, one ear forward and one back, setting the time for all his
squadron, his legs going as smoothly as waltz music. Then the big guns came by, and I saw Two
Tails and two other elephants harnessed in line to a forty-pounder siege gun, while twenty
yoke of oxen walked behind. The seventh pair had a new yoke, and they looked rather stiff and
tired. Last came the screw guns, and Billy the mule carried himself as though he commanded
all the troops, and his harness was oiled and polished till it winked. I gave a cheer all by
myself for Billy the mule, but he never looked right or left.

The rain began to fall again, and for a while it was too misty to see what the troops were
doing. They had made a big half circle across the plain, and were spreading out into a line.
That line grew and grew and grew till it was three-quarters of a mile long from wing to wing--one
solid wall of men, horses, and guns. Then it came on straight toward the Viceroy and the Amir,
and as it got nearer the ground began to shake, like the deck of a steamer when the engines
are going fast.

Unless you have been there you cannot imagine what a frightening effect this steady come-down
of troops has on the spectators, even when they know it is only a review. I looked at the Amir.
Up till then he had not shown the shadow of a sign of astonishment or anything else. But now
his eyes began to get bigger and bigger, and he picked up the reins on his horse's neck and
looked behind him. For a minute it seemed as though he were going to draw his sword and slash
his way out through the English men and women in the carriages at the back. Then the advance
stopped dead, the ground stood still, the whole line saluted, and thirty bands began to play
all together. That was the end of the review, and the regiments went off to their camps in
the rain, and an infantry band struck up with--

     The animals went in two by two,
          Hurrah!
     The animals went in two by two,
     The elephant and the battery mul',
     and they all got into the Ark
          For to get out of the rain!

Then I heard an old grizzled, long-haired Central Asian chief, who had come down with the Amir,
asking questions of a native officer.

"Now," said he, "in what manner was this wonderful thing done?"

And the officer answered, "An order was given, and they obeyed."

"But are the beasts as wise as the men?" said the chief.

"They obey, as the men do. Mule, horse, elephant, or bullock, he obeys his driver, and the
driver his sergeant, and the sergeant his lieutenant, and the lieutenant his captain, and the
captain his major, and the major his colonel, and the colonel his brigadier commanding three
regiments, and the brigadier the general, who obeys the Viceroy, who is the servant of the
Empress. Thus it is done."

"Would it were so in Afghanistan!" said the chief, "for there we obey only our own wills."

"And for that reason," said the native officer, twirling his mustache, "your Amir whom you
do not obey must come here and take orders from our Viceroy."

Parade Song of the Camp Animals

     ELEPHANTS OF THE GUN TEAMS

     We lent to Alexander the strength of Hercules,
     The wisdom of our foreheads, the cunning of our knees;
     We bowed our necks to service: they ne'er were loosed again,--
     Make way there--way for the ten-foot teams
           Of the Forty-Pounder train!

     GUN BULLOCKS

     Those heroes in their harnesses avoid a cannon-ball,
     And what they know of powder upsets them one and all;
     Then we come into action and tug the guns again--
     Make way there--way for the twenty yoke
           Of the Forty-Pounder train! 

     LOUIS AGASSIZ

     
     HIS LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE.
     
     EDITED BY

ELIZABETH CARY AGASSIZ.

PREFACE.

I am aware that this
book has neither the fullness of personal narrative, nor the closeness
of scientific analysis, which its too comprehensive title might lead
the reader to expect.

     Then feed us and break us and handle and groom,
     And give us good riders and plenty of room,
     And launch us in column of squadron and see
     The way of the war-horse to "Bonnie Dundee"!

     SCREW-GUN MULES

     As me and my companions were scrambling up a hill,
     The path was lost in rolling stones, but we went forward still;
     For we can wriggle and climb, my lads, and turn up everywhere,
     Oh, it's our delight on a mountain height, with a leg or two to
        spare!

     COMMISSARIAT CAMELS

     We haven't a camelty tune of our own
     To help us trollop along,
     But every neck is a hair trombone
     (Rtt-ta-ta-ta! is a hair trombone!)
     And this our marching-song:
     Can't!  Don't!  Shan't!  Won't!
     Pass it along the line!
     Somebody's pack has slid from his back,
     Wish it were only mine!
     Somebody's load has tipped off in the road--
     Cheer for a halt and a row!
     Urrr!  Yarrh!  Grr!  Arrh!
     Somebody's catching it now!

     ALL THE BEASTS TOGETHER

     Children of the Camp are we,
     Serving each in his degree;
     Children of the yoke and goad,
     Pack and harness, pad and load.
     See our line across the plain,
     Like a heel-rope bent again,
     Reaching, writhing, rolling far,
     Sweeping all away to war!
     While the men that walk beside,
     Dusty, silent, heavy-eyed,
     Cannot tell why we or they
     March and suffer day by day.

