The Priestess visited her many times throughout the day when she could spare the time from
her duties in the Temple. In the course of a few days Sarthia was able to be assisted in short
walks about the halls and corridors, but took little heed of things about her. Day by day,
the body grew stronger and a new light began to dawn in the eyes and shone upon the countenance
of the fair young girl.

In the meantime, Hermo had been apprised by the Astrologer Priest of the true relation existing
between himself and Sarthia. His joy knew no bounds, for neither his heart nor soul had ever
thrilled with the love of mother, sister, or kindred. It had been his misfortune to be deprived
of his parents before his young mind and heart could be moved by the tender emotions of love,
but now it needed no more than the Priest's revelations to kindle into flaming fires that something,
he knew not what, that had been smoldering in his bosom all his life.

Now, the Astrologer's words were clear and the cause of the strange thoughts that were excited
in his mind was revealed. Over and over he asked himself, "Can I wait to see my beloved sister?"

His impatience became equal with his joy, and days that had before passed as moments now seemed
as ages. One morning, much to the Priestess' surprise, a messenger announced that Hermo desired
an interview with her in the waiting-room below. The Priestess descended to where Hermo was
waiting and, with a questioning look in her face, clasped his hand in a firm but anxious manner,
inquired, "Is all well with our young Astrologer, Hermo, this morning. Does he bring tidings
from our revered Father? Has any new testimony been given by the stars that portends evil to
our Sarthia?"

Hermo stood in mute astonishment. "How could the Priestess receive such forebodings from his
presence when his whole being was throbbing with pulsations of unbounded happiness," he thought.

"Nay, my dear Priestess, quite the reverse. Has not our worthy Father acquainted you with my
new-found joy, my Love--my Sister? Know you not the divine relation that exists between Sarthia
and myself? The hours have seemed days since this knowledge was revealed to me and I now beg
to see my new sister and walk with her and yourself upon the lawn in the private grounds of
the Temple. Can my request be granted, O Priestess?"

She still retained his hand and, again pressing it warmly between her own, said, "Our brave
and noble Hermo deserves this blessing as a reward for his honest toil alone in his struggle
for Truth and Knowledge. Yes, my dear Hermo, I was made aware of the relation between you and
our new Sarthia and have been anxious for this moment to arrive when you would be sent to escort
Sarthia in her daily walks about the grounds, but I caution you to be guarded in your words.
Remember she is yet but an infant and must be taught as a child. Remain here and I will go
and bring Sarthia thither and we will walk together."

It was not long before the Priestess, Sarthia and her attendant appeared. The Priestess was
leading Sarthia and as they approached Hermo placed her hand in that of his saying, "Sarthia,
I place you in the care and protection of your brother Hermo."

"Hermo! Hermo!! My brother Hermo?" said Sarthia.

To the penetrating eyes of the Priestess and Hermo the light of consciousness was momentarily
seen and to the clairvoyant vision of the Priestess a startling scene was beheld. The vibrations
of soul to soul, the love that had been kindled in Hermo's heart and soul went out with such
intensity that it aroused into a vivid activity the slumbering soul of Sarthia, and the brain,
being already so finely tuned to the higher vibrations of the Spirit, responded at once.

The fresh air, the green grass, the beautiful flowers and shrubbery, with the inspiring presence
of Hermo, were like magic to quicken the pulsations of body and mind and bring to her cheek
and eyes the flush of health and life. Not much of the conversation was directed to Sarthia,
but when reference to the stars was made, she instantly inquired, "Brother Hermo, do the stars
speak to you, and do you know what they say? Our lovely Priestess here can read them, and how
much I would love to speak with them, too."

"I will teach you how some day, my sister, as soon as you are able to commence your studies."

"Will that be soon?"

"Yes, in a short time; so soon as you become an attendant in The Temple of Isis."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sarthia was silent, and the Priestess reminded them it was time to return,--Sarthia to her
room and Hermo to his studies, while the Priestess' presence was required in the Temple.

       *       *       *       *       *

These walks continued daily with most satisfactory results to the Priestess and the Hierophant.
All fears of the perfect harmonizing of the new soul to the body of Sarthia were allayed. The
animating spark of life was growing stronger and the vibrations from soul to body were complete;
not with consciousness, but that involuntary vibratory exchange that exists with the majority
of the people that make up the earth's human family. As only the higher portion of the brain
of Sarthia had been active the soul must necessarily manifest itself through those organs.
Often, were the much beloved Priestess, Hermo and Sarthia's attendants, surprised at her expressions
and profound questions on spiritual subjects.

It was nearing the time when Sarthia was to take her initiatory step as a Vestal in the Temple
of Isis. In fact, only one more day intervened before the ceremony was to take place. As the
incidents relative to the transfer were known to all the Temple attendants, it was looked forward
to with much silent rejoicing and gratitude that they had not been robbed of their lovely Vestal
who always was held in sacred esteem by them all.

All had been notified to prepare for the Initiatory service--the music, chants, and ceremonies
sacred to this occasion, must be in readiness. The night had arrived; the fair Goddess of the
night shone forth in all her radiant splendor, seemingly conscious, that she was shedding forth
the magnetic influence necessary for the sacred Rites now about to be performed. It had almost
reached the Zenith when the solemn march of the Priestesses, Vestals and attendants that were
to conduct Sarthia to the Holy Sanctuary of the Temple started. The Priestess walked beside
Sarthia. Sarthia was clothed in pure spotless linen, her head was bare with the exception of
a wreath of laurel leaves that rested lightly upon her flowing hair. In her hands she carried
a white-bound volume which contained the songs, chants, litany and regime for the Vestals of
the Temple.

Just as they reached the door, the High Priest arose, and simultaneously the music burst forth
in joyful strains that spoke welcome, courage and love to the heart of Sarthia. When they reached
the foot of the altar, where stood the Hierophant, Sarthia knelt upon a velvet cushion at his
feet. The music ceased while the High Priest stood with uplifted hands in silent prayer. At
a signal, the choir began chanting the Litany. Sarthia was bidden to rise, when the Priest,
in measured and solemn tones, addressed her:

"Do you come to pledge yourself to Temple Service? Is it your desire to become a Vestal of
Isis? Do you take the pledge of celibacy to the virgin Rites of the Temple; your time, energy
and purpose to be devoted to the duties that devolve upon a Vestal?"

The low, clear voice of Sarthia was heard throughout the Sanctuary as she bowed and answered
in assent.

"So be it, my holy virgin. I now commit your soul to the Guardian Angels of this Sacred Sanctuary
to guide, guard and protect your budding soul to perfect at-one-ment with its divine center,
that you may inherit immortal life while yet with us. Amen!"

Sarthia opened the book within her hands and, kissing its pages which she had already subscribed
to, handed it to the High Priest. He took it, and held it in his left, while he placed his
right hand upon her head, and said:

"I bid thee welcome, my Vestal Sarthia, and commend thy soul to the Gods above, that ever keep
watch o'er the children of earth. God bless thee. Amen! Amen!"

Then, as if they were voicing the words of the Hierophant, the chants grew louder, the music
poured forth in grander tones as though to join the invisible hosts above in praise to God
most high.

The ceremony was over and Sarthia was conducted back to her chamber, a Vestal of The Temple
of Isis. The occult powers that had been evoked in behalf of Sarthia soon became manifest in
her daily life. The zeal and zest with which she pursued her studies and the understanding
of their interior meanings were sufficient evidence of her teacher's inspiring influence. She
was soon placed under her brother Hermo's instruction in astronomical and astrological lore,
and here also displayed a proficiency in learning that surprised Hermo and delighted the Astrologer
Priests. At Temple Service she was all devotion and, as an Attendant, ever true and faithful.
The brother and sister became devotedly attached to each other and the Priestess often observed
this attachment, which sent a pang through her heart, lest such joy and happiness might not
be granted Hermo for the remainder of his life. Then instantly would she offer a silent prayer
that such supreme happiness would be theirs throughout eternity.

CHAPTER X.

THE PRINCESS' WEDDING.

The Princess' recovery was very slow, owing to the great depletion of the physical body during
her recent illness. Much care and attention were bestowed upon her by her royal friends. All
the luxury which wealth alone could procure, and the kindly influences of loving associates
were brought to bear to speedily hasten the restoration of their Princess to her former health
and spirits. Health was slowly but surely gaining the ascendency, but the spirits of heart
and mind were not of that buoyant, external nature that she formerly displayed.

With her return to health, demands of a social nature were made upon her. She enjoyed pleasures
but a seriousness attended her every movement that much annoyed her friends. The attendants
and servants were excited to wonder at her kind and thoughtful interests of them--while many
thought it was due to her weak physical condition, others remarked, how much the Princess'
sickness had improved her. Those that before feared her, now began to love and seek to please
and serve her.

Rathunor was a daily visitor, and remembering the advice and instructions of the Hierophant
he was calm, silent, and patient in his attentions to her and apparently took no heed of her
fancies and strange conversation. She would constantly plan amusements and social entertainments
on a grand scale, but with such a seriousness of purpose that it quite annoyed Rathunor at
times and caused him to wonder if this was really his former Nu-nah.

While the annoyance came purely from the external, there was an interior attraction that was,
irresistibly, holding him spell-bound to her side. His happiness now was greatest when they
sat, rode or walked in silence. Little did he dream, while in that silence which so enraptured
him, the soul of Nu-nah was blending and drawing the electric life-essence from his own to
hers. That interchange was going on wherein there is no robbery, but an inter-blending of the
magnetic and electric life-forces that cause to spring into activity the harmonious vibrations
of a complete whole, and the reaction upon both brain and the physical organism was health,
contentment and happiness that rises above all external cares, sorrows and discords.

Although the soul of the, now known, Princess was highly developed it could find but few responsive
echoes from the dormant spiritual organs of the brain. These she must arouse to sensitiveness
and action. It was this that gave rise to the peculiar ideas, expressed in her conversation,
that so mystified her friends. Visitors soon began to pour in upon her congratulations, presents
and invitations to once again enter the gilded salons of fashion and the round of amusements
that are the daily life of a favorite Princess. To all she gave a modest, quiet reply, neither
accepting nor rejecting their attentions, which left them in wondering doubt at times of her
sanity.

In the midst of some grand occasion she would be suddenly missed and on being sought out would
be found concealed in some pleasant nook, or even out in the open air, or beside an open window,
absorbed in meditation or gazing into the heavens. When her attention was attracted she would
start and, with a strange, far-away look in her eyes that would indicate to a superficial observer
she had been asleep, would allow herself to be led back and enter the festivities of the hour.

With all their efforts they could not enthuse her with the excitement and merriment surrounding
her. But, if any one should become serious and express thoughts that appealed to the interior,
she was all attention and the questions that were so ready when such an opportunity afforded
showed plainly that, although present in body, the soul and interests were in other realms
and spheres than this.

No one but Rathunor could hold her attention for any length of time. With him she was animated,
and charmingly beautiful and joyous and would, with some enthusiasm, enter into the pleasantries
of the hour which brought to her face the charming attraction of natural beauty. Behind those
orbs of vision there seemed to shine forth a light that was more radiant than the gorgeously
brilliant illuminations of the salons. Her beautiful face, her perfect form and bearing, made
her the center of attraction and she was much sought after. But, as soon as she was induced
to leave Rathunor's side, that which made her presence so irresistibly attractive and radiant
before, faded out.

Thus time passed on, and as health returned, Prince Rathunor pressed his suit. There was now,
no apparent reason why he could not claim his promised bride and make the Princess Nu-nah his
own. His more earnest friends cautioned him to wait further developments and, in an undertone,
reminded him of the peculiar and unnatural bearing of the Princess at times. They were sure,
in time, their once lovely Princess would be herself again. Rathunor listened, knowing their
kindly interest sprang from good motives, but he was silent--he could not speak for none would
understand. The yearnings of his heart and soul would not be quelled by any outward show.

While to the world Nu-nah was a source of mystical wonder, to Rathunor she was his stay and
comfort. He needed no further evidence and assurance of Nu-nah's love for him. Too often had
he experienced the response from within to her silent pleadings for light, truth and wisdom.
The attraction of the outer world was losing its fascination for him, the longings from within
grew stronger and more clamorous for outward expression until, one day, he advanced the subject
of astrology to the Princess Nu-nah. For an instant, her whole being was illuminated by that
mysterious light--for a single moment the soul arose to the supremacy of the brain and found
a faint glimmering expression that was visible to Rathunor's ever-watchful eye.

"Astrology, my Rathunor, fascinates me with its name and the wonders and mysteries it is said
to reveal. Do you think those Astrologer Priests of the Temple know whereof they speak, and
do they read the stars and gain from them the wisdom they are said to possess?"

Here was the first opportunity to present these sacred subjects to Nu-nah's mind. He tried
to think and, feeling that the present excitement of the brain's higher organs, was of a temporary
nature, he was really at a loss what to say that would be most effective and impress itself
indelibly upon her awakening brain.

"Yes, my dear Nu-nah, I believe they do possess the knowledge they claim and, I also am convinced
that much of that wisdom and knowledge is gained through their understanding the laws of astrology.
Those celestial bodies in our heavens were not placed there by our Divine Creator without a
purpose. I believe they have an influence upon us that can be learned, defined and utilized
by those who study and know this influence through astronomy and astrology. Nu-nah what is
that which produces the interior longings to know? Is it not that there is something to know--something
that our common brains can not grasp and analyze? Do you not think that silent, yet persistent,
monitor which lies concealed somewhere within our being is excited to action from some source
other than our outward selves, and that longing to go out must be accounted for by a something
without that calls and attracts us to it? May this not be the stars that we see twinkling and
motioning to us as we gaze into the midnight heavens?"

He stopped, wondering what the effect of his words would be, when, to his amazement, there
appeared a more vivid consciousness in her eyes and features than he had ever seen since her
return to physical health and, taking new hope from this manifestation, he continued, "Do you
love the social world longer? Is there not that longing, too, within your bosom for something
more real, more ennobling than the pastimes of worldly pleasures?"

At the mention of the worldly things, the light from her eyes died out and was gone. Rathunor
said no more but silently thanked God that he had for those few moments assisted the soul of
Nu-nah to vibrate, too; and had set in motion the vitalizing currents to the spiritual portion
of the brain and earnestly prayed that this might be the beginning of many opportunities that
were to follow.

Realizing that only he could arouse the dormant organs of her spiritual brain, he became more
anxious than ever to have her constantly in his company. He again pressed his suit and the
day for the wedding-nuptials was to be at once submitted to the Astrologer.

Rathunor again sought the Astrologer Priest for advice. He wished to know when the stars would
point most favorably toward such a momentous event. This, the Astrologer was not long in finding
out and soon conveyed the news to Rathunor that at an early date such might be consummated.
As the Prince arose to go the Priest took his hand and said, "My child, in taking the Princess
Nu-nah as your wife, you obey the holy intuitions of the soul and not only will you be united
in soul but in body and mind. I wish you the eternal bliss that attends all who are truly mated.
Farewell, my child; my blessings go with you."

Rathunor was too much absorbed in other things to understand the mysterious words of the Priest,
but notwithstanding this the seed had been again sown that would sometime spring up unannounced
and unexpected.

The announcement of the wedding was soon made and invitations sent out, far and near. Congratulations
poured in from every source, although some would have refused, had they been true to their
own sentiments, for the remarkable and unaccountable change which had taken place during her
terrible malady was too evident to be altogether right and should be righted before the Prince
should make the Princess his wife.

Rathunor was satisfied, never forgetting the Hierophant's sacred words, and none other need
be consulted. In their silent hearts they wished the wedding might be private and the holy
ceremony of the Temple be performed by the High Priest. This, of course, could not be owing
to the station and position they occupied in life, for the lives of a Princess and Prince are
not wholly their own, so to the public they must bow and pay obeisance.

Preparations for the wedding commenced at once, for it was to be a grand affair. Nothing was
to be spared that would add beauty and grandeur to the occasion. Extravagant expenditures were
indulged in, until money seemed at a loss to supply more. The trousseau was exquisitely magnificent
and, on the wedding night, the beaming radiance of the countenance of the Princess was neither
dimmed by the rich silks, nor the rare, priceless laces and lovely jewels that glittered and
sparkled with the living spark of life within them, that adorned her form.

Never a bride so fair; never a couple so happy. It was that quiet, subtle happiness, which
permeates the very atmosphere about them and leaves its traces in every susceptible heart that
breathes it.

CHAPTER XI.

THE RETIREMENT.

After the wedding the Prince and Princess were, from necessity, drawn within the whirl of social
pleasures with attentions in the way of entertainments, court suppers, balls, drawing-room
receptions, etc. The interior longings were compelled to creep into the background until the
external was gratified to exhaustion. The Princess' seriousness departed for a time and they
were very happy in the round of pleasures that were planned for them. But as time sped on they
began to grow weary of the show, pomp and shallowness of external life. The seeds that had
been sown in Rathunor's heart and brain, and that which he had aroused in Nu-nah's slumbering,
spiritual organs of her brain, had taken root and now began to spring forth into activity,
first as weariness of the superficial pleasures of society, then a desire to gradually withdraw
from this life into a more quiet and secluded one, where they might listen to the inner voices
and gain pleasure, as well as knowledge, from this source.

The Prince anxiously awaited another opportunity for speaking to Princess Nu-nah on spiritual
subjects. The Hierophant had given him to understand that at no distant day Nu-nah would become
interested in spiritual things and be his teacher. He had not been made aware of the transfer--that
was to be revealed to him by Nu-nah herself. He had begun to wonder how and where Nu-nah's
spiritual awakening would take place when an opportunity presented itself in a most unexpected
manner.

One lovely evening they were taking a stroll about the grounds of their castle, when the full
Moon arose in a flood of light, it rose higher, fuller, until the whole world seemed bathed
in her magical beauty and in order to longer enjoy her light and magnetic influence the Prince
suggested a longer walk. Unconsciously they chose the path that led them towards the Temple,
which was only a short distance from their home. As they neared the Temple distant strains
of music attracted their attention. They listened, and it seemed to speak in the plaintive
tones of a hungering soul; they hastened their steps until they had quite reached the private
grounds of the Temple of Isis, Nu-nah was in advance of Rathunor, being irresistibly drawn
by some invisible power, when she suddenly stopped and clasping his arm, as within a vice,
cried out, "My Rathunor, do you hear that music; what is it? I have heard it before, but where,
O, where? How came I to know the chants and music of the Temple Service?"

They were held spell-bound to the spot, when the Prince was warned, by the trembling and the
gradual loosening of Nu-nah's hand upon his arm, to quit the spot at once. The Prince placed
his arm about her waist to support her as he urged their return home, but she stood immovable
apparently chained by the magical power of some invisible force.

Stronger grew the mystical power of the spell until the Princess seemed compelled to rush madly
on and into the Temple, if the Prince had not held her back in a firm grasp, and at the same
time trying to attract her attention by his words. "Come, my darling, let us retrace our steps
and as we walk I will tell you all I know about what you have heard."

"O, my Rathunor, speak to me quickly before I have time to forget. I can not remember this
long, yet it as a recurrence of a vivid dream. Tell me while I am awake, where I have been.
I saw, and felt, and know I was there--there in the Sacred Sanctuary of that Temple. O, that
I might go again and remain there forever to listen to that enchanting music and the solemn
heavenly voices of that choir."

A quiver ran through her whole frame and with a mournful cry she fell fainting in the arms
of Rathunor. Here his innate born courage and bravery sustained him, and instantly there flashed
into his mind the words he had once heard the High Priest use while passing his hands over
an insensible form. So, gently laying her inanimate body upon the grass, he repeated in slow,
but firm and commanding tones these words:

"Return, O soul, to thy physical body. Return, I command thee, and reanimate this lifeless
tenement of your soul. Come, come, I command thee, come."

Scarcely had the last words been uttered when a movement of the hands and limbs announced to
Rathunor the return of life. She was soon able to rise and, being supported by the Prince,
they slowly wended their way back to the castle. She walked as in a dream, but as her step
was stately and firm, the Prince did not become alarmed until he had her safe in her room,
when the extent of the occurrence dawned upon him and then he hurriedly called her maid and
sent at once to dispatch a servant for their physician. Nu-nah had become quite herself before
the Doctor came and after he had administered a little palliative, withdrew saying, "The Princess
will soon be well. It was only the result of fatigue induced by the constant excitement of
social pleasures."

The Prince was silent and, seeing the Princess was so comfortable, he retired to his own apartments
with strict injunctions, he should be notified at once if any symptoms of the prostration should
appear. When once within his private chamber he threw himself down in a chair and fell into
a profound study. Over and over he reviewed the incidents of the evening. "What was there in
that music that so enchanted Nu-nah? What did she see and hear that revived a faint memory
of something in the past? What magical force was it that drew her so irresistibly toward the
Temple? What produced that quiver which preceded her falling insensible into his arms?"

He was half inclined to blame the Priests for it all, for he knew something of the power of
magic and its psychologic effect. The more he reasoned the farther he wandered from a solution.
Now he mused, "If that had been the beautiful Vestal, Sarthia, I could understand why she would
be so powerfully attracted to the Temple, but Nu-nah, who had never entered the Holy Sanctuary
except for those sacred Rites that are administered to all who are supposed to be bordering
on the land of the spiritual world; only those two nights, to his knowledge, had she ever been
in the Sacred Sanctuary; there was something in those ceremonies that he had not as yet understood;
there must have been some mystical, magical power employed to restore the frail, feeble, unconscious
Nu-nah to life and health and, to him."

He thought and reasoned until his brain was on fire, and still no solution of the mystery was
presented to his understanding.

"Well," he at last exclaimed, so loud that he startled himself, "I will have to accept it as
a mystery and patiently wait time's own pleasure for the explanation."

He began to prepare for retiring, but he could not calm himself--a restlessness took possession
of him that he could not quell; he walked the floor, tried to read, and resorted to many ways
to restore his tranquillity, but all in vain.

"I must see my Nu-nah once more before I can sleep," and, hurriedly readjusting the clothing
he had removed, he repaired to the Princess' private room. A gentle knock brought the attendant
to the door.

"Is the Princess quiet and sleeping," he inquired in a whisper.

"No," answered the servant. "She is awake and feeling well, and just now remarked, that if
she thought you were not sleeping she would have you called for she had something she wished
to tell you."

His presence was at once made known to the Princess, and, with a low cry of delight, she called
him to her side. A signal sent the attendant from the room, when the Princess began, "My Rathunor,
my beloved husband, I am so glad you came. I have something to tell you that I might forget
before morning. To-night, when we came within the sound of the music in the Temple, I felt
as if I left my body and you, and by some unknown power was drawn into the Sacred Sanctuary.
I saw the High Priest, the lovely Mother Priestess, the Vestals, the choir and musicians, all
earnestly engaged in some holy ceremony. The music, the heavenly spiritual influence of the
atmosphere, the exquisite fragrance of incense and perfumes, with the purity reflected by the
Vestal attendants, so enraptured and enthralled me that the thought that I would ever have
to leave its sacred boundaries caused me to lose consciousness and, when I awoke, you were
bending over me."

Seeing a strange look in Rathunor's eyes and interpreting it to mean jealousy, she continued,
"but that was not all, my Rathunor; you were there, too, for awhile. I tried to keep you, but
could not--something drew you away from me and I, for an instant, suffered the same pangs that
are torturing your heart now. I thought you would rather go than stay, and a feeling of jealousy
entered my heart, but the strange fascination of the place was more to me at that instant than
you, my Rathunor, so I longed to stay but could not. I have been trying to think what it all
means. You must help me for already I feel the memory of the event passing away."

She ceased speaking, and in a few moments was fast asleep. The Prince kissed the hand he held,
then gently laid it by her side and quietly left the room fully conscious that the mystery
had been partially revealed, and that now the Princess would sleep for the rest of the night.
After returning to his rooms he again flung himself into an easy chair determined to seriously
think and arrive, that night, at some immediate steps to take his Nu-nah from the excitement
she had been subjected to for so long, so that a recurrence of the sad event might not be repeated.
Before another Sun arose the Prince had decided upon his future course. "I will take Nu-nah
away, ostensibly on a long tour of the country for pleasure. Aye, for pleasure, but not the
kind we have submitted to since our marriage."

The next morning, as soon as the Princess could see him, he requested her presence at once.
He met her at the door and with a loving inquiry as to her health, led her to an easy chair
beside the open window where the rays of the morning Sun could fall upon her as they penetrated
the delicate lace which hung at the window. Drawing a chair to her side he began to unfold
his plans, at the same time watching every motion and expression of the face to see what effect
they would have upon her. She did not betray her thoughts until he said his object was not
so much for travel as to retire to some quiet, pleasant nook, where they could be excluded
from the world, and those they knew, for awhile, and instead of spending their time in the
superficial pleasures of the world they could enjoy each other's society and learn something
about the invisible mysteries that surrounded them.

When the motives of his plans were mentioned a perceptible change flashed across her countenance
and a light appeared in her eyes that he had not seen for some time and, by the time he had
finished, her whole face was beaming with an inward delight, that urged the Prince to further
reveal the plans that he had laid during his midnight reasonings. The Princess raised not a
single exception to his schemes but, on the contrary, entered into them with a zest that surprised
even the Prince.

"O, to be alone, Rathunor, where we could think and study that which we choose has been the
longing of my very soul these many weeks; can not we go at once, to-day if possible." She felt
she could not wait the necessary time for the preparations to be made.

There was a duty toward their friends that must be fulfilled. The devoted attentions that had
been showered upon them for so long must not be ignored. So, it was decided to give a farewell
reception, before taking their departure for an indefinite stay in strange lands.

Accordingly invitations were issued to a grand state occasion, when the Prince and Princess
would bid their friends and associates Farewell. Ah! farewell. Little did those who were of
that brilliant assembly dream, as they clasped the hands of the Princess and Prince in cordial
and sincere good-by, that it was indeed a Farewell to all. Neither did they conceive for a
moment what those Farewells meant to the Princess and Prince. It was hard for them to conceal
their happiness as every minute of time brought their departure nearer, and what their guests
took for the happiness of their presence, was really induced by the thoughts of the future.

They were soon off and we can only follow them in thought for a time. Let those thoughts be
kind, for, knowing thoughts are potent, send them out lovingly toward the awakening mind of
Princess Nu-nah.

CHAPTER XII.

THE RETURN TO A NEW LIFE.

Several years have elapsed since we bade our Prince and Princess farewell. Only at long intervals
had they communicated with their friends. The outer world had almost forgotten them, but not
so with the Hierophant and the Priestess of the Temple. Daily, had their prayers gone in behalf
of their souls' welfare. Although not in communication with them in body they were in spirit,
and from this source they knew all was well. The High Priest, in his astral visits, could see
the growing power of the soul over the slowly-evolving brain of the Princess, and with the
electric soul-force, the great nourisher and renewer of life, though unconscious to him, the
rounding out was fast nearing completion of the soul's mastery over the brain and body of Nu-nah.

They had settled in distant lands, near a little country village that lay just at the foot
of the mountains. It was made up of the simple peasantry, where life was free from cant, suspicions,
criticism and morbid curiosity. Here they could live and follow the bent of their minds, undisturbed
and unobserved if they so wished. They kept their identity unknown yet the villagers knew from
the Princess' delicate beauty of form and features she belonged to some noble family and station
in life, but her kind, thoughtful bearing towards them won their love and esteem at once, and
equally did they esteem the Prince for he was ever lavish with his money and attention to those
who appealed to him for assistance. The mountains soon became their favorite resort. Long walks
were taken daily, and rests made in the quiet nooks on the mountain side. One place particularly,
became a very dear retreat to them, for never did they stop there but that some inspirations
were born. It was here that Nu-nah took her first lesson from Rathunor; it was in this sacred
spot that Rathunor gently but cautiously revealed to her the Initiatory Rites of the Temple
that had been performed over her unconscious body. This excited an intense curiosity, if not
deep interest, in Nu-nah's mind. She began to question and think and, as she thought, there
came a vague, glimmering memory of the past, and when Rathunor would inquire the cause of her
almost unconscious moods, she would raise her hand to silence his voice, and whisper, "I am
dreaming--O, something so grand, so solemn, so sacred haunts my mind; just wait and it will
all come by and by," then her dark eyes seemed to grow larger and larger and to burn with a
concentrated fire.

The Prince's delight knew no bounds as these expressions led him to believe they sprang from
deep desires and interests, so the time seemed to shorten for the day to come when their whole
time and attention would be turned to the study of Nature's mysteries and the secrets of life
be revealed to them, thus satisfying that inward longing for the realities of life. Also, he
knew, the new love that had been born in Nu-nah's heart for him was more than that love that
the external only can know. Its depths he could not fathom nor its source pursue, so he was
content to wait that promised time, predicted by the Astrologer, that Nu-nah would lead, guide
and teach him these spiritual truths and reveal to his already awakening soul the laws of the
spirit.

Now, a new joy was revealed to the Prince when the Princess made him aware that a new soul
had been entrusted to their tender care and keeping. The thoughts of maternity filled her heart
with bliss. Blessed privilege, to bring to this plane of existence a soul awaiting incarnation
in human form, to live, grow and experience on this planet the last grand objective existence
that the soul can know. What care, what pleasure would she take in training that little soul
to know its God and the mysteries of life and in maturity stand forth to teach mankind Wisdom
and Truth.

The pleasure in preparing for its advent made days pass as minutes. Time, borne on the wings
of love, passed quickly. Her soul had gained that control over the mind that it was full with
pure, holy and spiritual thoughts. Her mind could not get beyond her husband and the young
soul that had been transmitted to her keeping. The divine joy of love was singing in her soul.
Rathunor left her alone in her happiness, knowing that in her condition any great effort on
his part to draw her mind--thoughts into new channels might lead to dire results.

At last the Natalday arrived. The magnetic, as well as the physical, period of gestation being
completed, to them a son was born. Never was there a human soul greeted with greater love and
welcome than this one. Not only was it the offspring of the physical union, but that of the
souls. Welcome, thrice welcome, to the children born of such love. The physical condition of
the Princess was very critical for several days. The Prince's grief and anxiety was almost
unbearable; neither sleep nor food took a moment of his time during her severe illness, and
often did he think that again Nu-nah's soul would take its flight and wend its way to the realms
above.

The eighth day after confinement was one of stupor and unconsciousness. Not a moment passed
unheeded. It was near midnight when, the attendants having retired for a short rest, and Rathunor
sat alone by her bedside, her eyes suddenly opened and bent their gaze upon him. Beautiful,
calm, divine Nu-nah, her wonderful eyes shone with a surprising brilliancy and they were so
riveted upon him that he dare not move, much less speak. The minutes that intervened between
her waking and speaking seemed as an eternity to Rathunor.

"My darling husband, are you beside me--are you where I can speak to you, and are we alone?"

