'You see, fellers,' said Ragged Pete, leisurely sipping a gill of blue ruin, which he held
in his hand--'the victim was a woman of the town, as lived upstairs in Pat Mulligan's crib
in this street. She had once been a decent woman, but her husband was a drunken vagabond, as
beat and starved her to such an extent, that she was obliged to go on the town to keep herself
from dying of actual starvation. Well, the husband he was took up and sent to quod for six
months, as a common vagrant; and the wife she lived in Mulligan's crib, in a room as hadn't
a single article of furniture in it, exceptin' a filthy old bed of straw in one corner. A week
ago, the poor cretur was taken ill, and felt herself likely to become a mother, but the brutes
in the house wouldn't pay no attention to her in that situation, but left her all to herself.
What she must have suffered during that night and the next day, you can imagine; and towards
evening Pat Mulligan goes to her room, and finds her almost dead, with her poor child in her
arms, wrapped up in an old blanket. Well, what does Pat do but ax her for his rent, which she
owed him; and because the poor woman had nothing to pay him, the Irish vagabond (axing your
pardon, Bloody Mike,) bundles her neck and crop into the street, weak and sick as she was,
with a hinfant scarce a day old, crying in her arms. The weather was precious cold, and it
was snowing, and to keep herself and child from freezing to death, as she thought, she crept
into a hog-pen which stands in Pat's yard. And this morning she was found in the hog-pen, stone
dead, and the hogs were devouring the dead body of the child, which was already half ate up!
I'll tell you what, fellers,' exclaimed Ragged Pete, dashing a tear from his eye, and swallowing
the remainder of his gin--'I'm a hard case myself, and have seen some hard things in my time,
but d----n me if the sight of that poor woman's corpse and the mutilated body of her child,
didn't set me to thinking that this is a great city, where such a thing takes place in the
very midst of it!'

'Three groans for Pat Mulligan!' roared a drunken fellow from beneath the table.

The groans were rendered with due emphasis and effect; and then one of the drunken crowd proposed
that they should visit the 'crib' of Mr. Mulligan, and testify their disapprobation of that
gentleman's conduct in a more forcible and striking manner.

This proposal was received with a shout of approbation by the drunken crew, and was warmly
seconded by Bloody Mike himself, who regarded Mr. Patrick Mulligan as a formidable rival in
his line of business, and therefore entertained feelings strongly hostile to his fellow-countryman.
Then forth sallied the dingy crowd, headed by Ragged Pete, (who found himself suddenly transformed
into a hero,) and followed by Frank Sydney, who was desirous of seeing the issue of this strange
affair.

The house occupied by Mulligan was an old, rotten tenement, which would undoubtedly have fallen
to the ground, had it not been propped up by the adjoining buildings; and as it was, one end
of it had settled down, in consequence of the giving away of the foundation, so that every
room in the house was like a steep hill. The lower room was occupied as a groggery and dance-hall,
and was several feet below the level of the street.

Into this precious den did the guests of Bloody Mike march, in single file. It had been previously
agreed between them, that Ragged Pete would give the signal for battle, by personally attacking
no less a person than Mr. Mulligan himself. Frank also entered, and taking up a secure position
in one corner, surveyed the scene with interest.

Seated in the corner, upon an inverted wash-tub, was an old negro, whose wool was white as
snow, who was arrayed in a dirty, ragged, military coat which had once been red. This sable
genius rejoiced in the lofty title of 'the General;' he was playing with frantic violence on
an old, cracked violin, during which performance he threw his whole body into the strangest
contortions, working his head, jaws, legs and arms in the most ludicrous manner. The 'music'
thus produced was responded to, 'on the floor,' by about twenty persons, who were indulging
in the 'mazy dance.' The company included old prostitutes, young thieves, negro chimney-sweeps,
and many others whom it would be difficult to classify.

The room being small and very close, and heated by an immense stove, the stench was intolerable.--Behind
the bar was a villainous looking Irishman, whose countenance expressed as much intellect or
humanity as that of a hog. This was Pat Mulligan, and he was busily engaged in dealing out
the delectable nectar called 'blue ruin' at the very moderate rate of one penny per gill.

A very important man, forsooth, was that Irish 'landlord,' in the estimation of himself and
customers.--None dare address him without prefixing a deferential 'Mr.' to his name; and Frank
Sydney was both amused and irritated as he observed the brutal insolence with which the low,
ignorant ruffian treated the poor miserable wretches, from whose scanty pence he derived his
disgraceful livelihood.

'Mr. Mulligan,' said a pale, emaciated woman, whose hollow cheek and sunken eye eloquently
proclaimed her starving condition--'won't you trust me for a sixpenny loaf of bread until to-morrow?
My little girl, poor thing, is dying, and I have eaten nothing this day.' And the poor creature
wept.

'Trust ye!' roared the Irishman, glaring ferociously upon her--'faith, it's not exactly trust
I'll give ye; but I'll give ye a beating that'll not leave a whole bone in your skin, if ye
are not out of this place in less time than it takes a pig to grunt.'

The poor woman turned and left the place, with a heavy heart, and Ragged Pete, deeming this
a good opportunity to begin hostilities, advanced to the bar with a swagger, and said to the
Irishman,--

'You're too hard upon that woman, Pat.'

'What's that to you, ye dirty spalpeen?' growled Mulligan, savagely.

'This much,' responded Pete, seizing an immense earthen pitcher which stood on the counter,
and hurling it with unerring aim at the head of the Irishman. The vessel broke into a hundred
pieces, and though it wounded Mulligan dreadfully, he was not disabled; for, grasping an axe
which stood within his reach, he rushed from behind the bar, and swinging the formidable weapon
aloft, he would have cloven in twain the skull of Ragged Pete, had not that gentleman evaded
him with much agility, and closing with him, bore him to the floor, and began to pummel him
vigorously.

No sooner did the customers of Pat Mulligan see their dreaded landlord receiving a sound thrashing,
then all fear of him vanished; and, as they all hated the Irish bully, and smarted under the
remembrance of numerous insults and wrongs sustained at his hands, they with one accord fell
upon him, and beat him within an inch of his life. Not content with this mode of retaliation,
they tore down the bar, demolished the glasses and decanters, spilled all the liquor, and in
short caused the flourishing establishment of Mr. Pat Mulligan to assume a very forlorn appearance.

While this work of destruction was going on, the alarm was given that a body of watchmen had
assembled outside the door, and was about to make an advance upon the 'crib.' To exit the house
now became the general intent; and several had already beaten a retreat through the rear of
the premises, when the watchman burst into the front door, and made captives of all who were
present. Frank Sydney was collared by one of the officials, and although our hero protested
that he had not mingled in the row, but was merely a spectator, he was carried to the watch-house
along with the others.

When the party arrived at the watch-house, (which is situated in a wing of the 'Tombs,') the
prisoners were all arrayed in a straight line before the desk of the Captain of the Watch,
for that officer's examination. To give the reader an idea of the way in which justice is sometimes
administered in New York, we shall detail several of the individual examinations, and their
results:--

'What's your name?' cried the Captain, addressing the first of the prisoners. 'Barney McQuig,
an' plaze yer honor,' was the reply, in a strong Hibernian accent.

A sort of under-official, who was seated at the desk, whispered in the ear of the Captain of
the Watch--

'I know him, he's an infernal scoundrel, but he votes our ticket, and you let him slide, by
all means.'

'McQuig, you are discharged,' said the Captain to the prisoner.

'Why, sir, that man was one of the worst of the rioters, and he is, besides, one of the greatest
villains on the Points,' remarked a watchman, who, having only been recently appointed, was
comparatively green, and by no means au fait in the method of doing business in that 'shop.'

'Silence, sir!' thundered the Captain--'how dare you dispute my authority? I shall discharge
whom I please, damn you; and you will do well if you are not discharged from your post for
your interference.'

The indignant Captain demanded the name of the next prisoner, who confessed to the eccentric
Scriptural cognomen of 'Numbers Clapp.'

'I know him, too,' again whispered the under-official--'he is a common and notorious thief,
but he is useful to us as a stool pigeon,[3] and you must let him go.'

'Clapp, you can go,' said the Captain; and Mr. Numbers Clapp lost no time in conveying himself
from the dangerous vicinity of justice; though such justice as we here record, was not very
dangerous to him.

'Now, fellow, what's your name?' asked the Captain of a shabbily dressed man, whose appearance
strongly indicated both abject poverty and extreme ill health.

'Dionysus Wheezlecroft,' answered the man, with a consumptive cough.

'Do you know him?' inquired the Captain, addressing the under-official, in a whisper.

'Perfectly well,' replied the other--'he is a poor devil, utterly harmless and inoffensive,
and is both sick and friendless. He was formerly a political stump orator of some celebrity;
he worked hard for his party, and when that party got into power, it kicked him to the devil,
and he has been flat on his back ever since.'

'What party did he belong to?--ours?' asked the Captain.

'No,' was the reply; and that brief monosyllable of two letters, sealed the doom of Dionysus
Wheezlecroft.

'Lock him up,' cried the Captain--'he will be sent over for six months in the morning.' And
so he was--not for any crime, but because he did not belong to our party.

Several negroes, male and female, who could not possibly belong to any party, were then summarily
disposed of; and at last it came to Frank's turn to be examined.

'Say, you sailor fellow,' quoth the Captain, 'what's your name?'

Frank quietly stepped forward, and in as few words as possible made himself known; he explained
the motives of his disguise, and the circumstances under which he had been induced to enter
the house of Pat Mulligan.--The Captain, though savage and tyrannical to his inferiors, was
all smiles and affability to the rich Mr. Sydney.

'Really, my dear sir,' said he, rubbing his hands, and accompanying almost every word with
a corresponding bow, 'you have disguised yourself so admirably, that it would puzzle the wits
of a lawyer to make out who you are, until you should speak, and then your gentlemanly accent
would betray you. Allow me to offer you ten thousand apologies, on behalf of my men, for having
dared to subject you to the inconvenience of an arrest; and permit me also to assure you that
if they had known who you were, they would not have molested you had they found you demolishing
all the houses on the Points.'

'I presume I am at liberty to depart?' said Frank; and the Captain returned a polite affirmative.
Our hero left the hall of judgment, thoroughly disgusted with the injustice and partiality
of this petty minion of the law; for he well knew that had he himself been in reality nothing
more than a poor sailor, as his garb indicated, the three words, 'lock him up,' would have
decided his fate for that night; and that upon the following morning the three words, 'send
him over,' would have decided his fate for the ensuing six months.

When Frank was gone, the Captain said to the under official:

'That is Mr. Sydney, the young gentleman who was convicted of murder a short time ago, and
whose innocence of the crime was made manifest in such an extraordinary manner, just in time
to save his neck. He is very rich, and of course I could not think of locking him up.'

The Captain proceeded to examine other prisoners, and Frank went in quest of other adventures,
in which pursuit we shall follow him.

As he turned into Broadway, he encountered a showily dressed courtezan, who, addressing him
with that absence of ceremony for which such ladies are remarkable, requested him to accompany
her home.

'This may lead to something,' thought Frank; and pretending to be somewhat intoxicated, he
proffered her his arm, which she took, at the same time informing him that her residence was
in Anthony street. This street was but a short distance from where they had met; a walk of
five minutes brought them to it, and the woman conducted Frank back into a dark narrow court,
and into an old wooden building which stood at its further extremity.

'Wait here a few moments, until I get a light,' said the woman; and entering a room which opened
from the entry, she left our hero standing in the midst of profound darkness.--Hearing a low
conversation going on in the room, he applied his ear to the key-hole, and listened, having
good reason to suppose that he himself was the object of the discourse.

'What sort of a man does he appear to be?' was asked, in a voice which sent a thrill through
every nerve in Frank's body--for it struck him that he had heard it before. It was the voice
of a man, and its tones were peculiar.

'He is a sailor,' replied the woman--'and as he is somewhat drunk now, the powder will soon
put him to sleep, and then--'

The remainder of the sentence was inaudible to Frank; he had heard enough, however, to put
him on his guard; for he felt convinced that he was in one of those murderous dens of prostitution
and crime, where robbery and assassination are perpetrated upon many an unsuspecting victim.

In a few minutes the woman issued from the room, bearing a lighted candle; and requesting Frank
to follow, she led the way up a crooked and broken stair-case, and into a small chamber, scantily
furnished, containing only a bed, a table, a few chairs, and other articles of furniture, of
the commonest kind.

Our hero had now an opportunity to examine the woman narrowly.--Though her eyes were sunken
with dissipation, and her cheeks laden with paint, the remains of great beauty were still discernible
in her features, and a vague idea obtruded itself, like a dim shadow, upon Frank's mind, that
this was not the first time he had seen her.

'Why do you watch me so closely?' demanded the woman, fixing her piercing eyes upon his countenance.

'Ax yer pardon, old gal, but aren't you going to fetch on some grog?' said our hero, assuming
a thick, drunken tone, and drawing from his pocket a handful of gold and silver coin.

'Give me some money, and I will get you some liquor,' rejoined the woman, her eyes sparkling
with delight, as she saw that her intended victim was well supplied with funds. Frank gave
her a half dollar, and she went down stairs, promising to be back in less than ten minutes.

During her absence, and while our hero was debating whether to make a hasty retreat from the
house, or remain and see what discoveries he could make tending to throw light on the character
and practices of the inmates, the chamber door opened, and to his surprise a small boy of about
five years of age entered, and gazed at him with childish curiosity.

'Surely I have seen that little lad before,' thought Frank; and then he said, aloud--

'What is your name, my boy?'

'Jack the Prig,' replied the little fellow.

Frank started; memory carried him back to the Dark Vaults, where he had heard the Dead Man
catechise his little son, and he recollected that the urchin had, on that occasion, made the
same reply to a similar question. By referring to the sixth chapter of this work, the reader
will find the questions and answers of that singular catechism.

Resolving to test the matter further, our hero asked the boy the next question which he remembered
the Dead Man had addressed to his son, on that eventful night:--

'Who gave you that name?'

'The Jolly Knights of the Round Table,' replied the boy, mechanically.

'By heavens, 'tis as I suspected!' thought Frank--'the child's answers to my questions prove
him to be the son of the Dead Man; the voice which I heard while listening in the passage,
and which seemed familiar to me, was the voice of that infernal miscreant himself: and the
woman whom I accompanied hither, and whom I half fancied I had seen before--that woman is his
wife.'

The boy, probably fearing a return of his mother, left the room; and Frank continued his meditations
in the following strain:--

'The mystery begins to clear up. This house is probably the one that communicates with the
secret outlet of the Dark Vaults, through which I passed, blindfolded, accompanied by those
two villains, Fred Archer, and the Dead Man. The woman, no doubt, entices unsuspecting men
into this devil's trap, and after drugging them into a state of insensibility, hands them over
to the tender mercies of her hideous husband, who, after robbing them, casts them, perhaps,
into some infernal pit beneath this house, there to die and rot!--Good God, what terrible iniquities
are perpetrated in the very heart of this great city--iniquities which are unsuspected and
unknown! And yet the perpetrators of them often escape their merited punishment, while I, an
innocent man, came within a hair's breadth of perishing upon the scaffold for another's crime!
But I will not question the divine justice of the Almighty; the guilty may elude the punishment
due their crimes, in this world, but vengeance will overtake them in the next. It shall, however,
henceforth be the great object of my life, to bring one stupendous miscreant to the bar of
human justice--the Dead Man whose escape from the State Prison was followed by his outrage
upon Clinton Romaine, by which the poor boy was forever deprived of the faculty of speech;
and 'tis my firm belief that 'twas by his accursed hand my aunt was murdered; she was too elevated
in character, and too good a Christian, to commit suicide, and he is the only man in existence
who could slay such an excellent and honorable woman! Yes--something tells me that the Dead
Man is the murderer of my beloved relative, and never will I rest till he is in my power, that
I may wreak upon him my deadly vengeance!'

Hearing a footstep on the stairs, he assumed an attitude and expression of countenance indicative
of drowsiness and stupidity. A moment afterwards, the woman entered, and placed upon the table
a small pitcher containing liquor. Taking from a shelf two tumblers, she turned her back towards
Frank, and drew from her bosom a small box, from which she rapidly transferred a few grains
of fine white powder into one of the tumblers; then going to a cupboard in one corner, she
put a teaspoonful of loaf sugar into each of the tumblers, and placing them upon the table,
requested our hero to 'help himself.'

Frank poured some liquor into the tumbler nearest him, and looking askance at the woman as
he did so, he saw that her features wore a smile of satisfaction; she then supplied her own
glass, and was about to raise it to her lips, when our hero said, in a gruff, sleepy tone--

'I say, old woman, you haven't half sweetened this grog of mine. Don't be so d--d stingy of
your sugar, for I've money enough to pay for it.'

The woman turned and went to the closet to get another spoonful of the article in question;
when Frank, with the rapidity of lightning, changed the tumblers, placing the deadly dose designed
for him, in the same spot where the woman's tumbler had stood. This movement was accomplished
with so much dexterity, that when she advanced to the table with the sugar, she failed to notice
the alteration.

'Well, old gal--here's to the wind that blows, the ship that goes, and the lass that loves
a sailor!' And delivering himself of this hackneyed nautical toast, the pretended seaman drank
off the contents of his glass, an example which was followed by the female miscreant, who responded
to Frank's toast by uttering aloud the significant wish--

'May your sleep to-night be sound!'

'Ay, ay, I hope so, and yours, too,' grumbled our hero, placing an enormous quid of tobacco
in his cheek, in order to remove the unpleasant taste of the vile liquor which he had just drank.

There was a pause of a few minutes; when suddenly the woman grasped Frank convulsively by the
arm, and gazed into his countenance with wildly gleaming eyes.

'Tell me,' she gasped, like one in the agonies of strangulation--'tell me the truth, for God's
sake--did you change those tumblers?'

'I did,' was the answer.

'Then I am lost!' she almost shrieked--'lost, lost! The liquor which I drank contained a powder
which will within half an hour sink me into a condition of insensibility, from which I shall
only awake a raging maniac! I am rightly served--for I designed that to be your fate!'

'Wretched woman, I pity you,' said Frank, in a tone of commiseration.

'I deserve not your pity,' she cried, writhing as if in great bodily torment--'my soul is stained
with the guilt of a thousand crimes--and the only reparation I can make you, to atone for the
wrong I intended, is to warn you to fly from this house as from a pestilence! This is the abode
of murder--it is a charnel-house of iniquity; fly from hence, as you value your life--for an
hour after midnight my husband, the terrible Dead Man, will return, and although you frustrated
me, you cannot escape his vengeance, should he find you here. Ah, my God! my brain burns--the
deadly potion is at work!'

And thus the miserable woman continued to rave, until the powerful drug which she had taken
fully accomplished its work, and she sank upon the floor in a state of death-like insensibility.

'Thou art rightly served,' thought Frank, as he contemplated her prostrate form--'now to penetrate
into some of the mysteries of this infernal den!' Taking the candle from the table, he began
his exploration in that fearful house.

In the apartment which adjoined the chamber he discovered little 'Jack the Prig,' fast asleep
in bed. In the restlessness of slumber, the boy had partially thrown off the bed-clothes, and
he exhibited upon his naked breast the picture of a gallows, and a man hanging! This appalling
scene had been drawn with India ink, and pricked into the flesh with needles, so that it never
could be effaced. It was the work of the boy's hideous father, who, not contented with training
up his son to a life of crime, was anxious that he should also carry upon his person, through
life, that fearful representation of a criminal's doom.

'Would it not be a deed of mercy,' thought our hero--'to take the poor boy from his unnatural
parents, and train him up to a life of honesty and virtue? If I ever get the father in my power,
I will look after the welfare of this unfortunate lad.'

Frank left the room, and descending the stairs, began to explore the lower apartments of the
house. In one, he found a large collection of tools, comprising every implement used by the
villains in their depredations. There were dark lanterns, crowbars, augers, London jimmies,
and skeleton keys, for burglary; also, spades, pickaxes, and shovels, which were probably used
in robbing graves, a crime which at that period was very common in New York. A large quantity
of clothing of all kinds hung upon the walls, from the broadcloth suit of the gentleman down
to the squalid rags of the beggar; these garments Frank conjectured to be disguises, a supposition
which was confirmed by the masks, false whiskers, wigs and other articles for altering the
person, which were scattered about.

In a small closet which communicated with this room, our hero found dies for coining, and a
press for printing counterfeit bank-notes; and a table drawer, which he opened containing a
quantity of false coin, several bank-note plates, and a package of counterfeit bills, which
had not yet been signed.

Having sufficiently examined these interesting objects, Frank passed into the next room, which
was of considerable extent. It was almost completely filled with goods of various kinds, evidently
the proceeds of robberies. There were overcoats, buffalo robes, ladies' cloaks and furs, silk
dresses, shawls, boxes of boots and shoes, cases of dry goods, and a miscellaneous assortment
of articles sufficient to furnish out a large store. The goods in that room were worth several
thousands of dollars.

'I shall now seek to discover the secret outlet of the Dark Vaults,' thought Frank, as he descended
into the cellar of the house. Here he gazed about him with much interest; the cellar was damp
and gloomy and his entrance with the light disturbed a legion of rats, which went scampering
off in every direction, from a corner in which they had collected together; as the young man
approached that corner, a fetid, sickening odor saluted his nostrils and a fearful thought
flashed across his mind; a moment afterwards, his blood curdled with horror, for before him
lay the dead body of a man, entirely naked, and far advanced in state of decomposition; and
upon that putrefying corpse had the swarm of rats been making their terrible banquet!

Sick with horror and disgust, Frank precipitately retreated from the loathsome and appalling
spectacle, satisfied that he had beheld one of the Dead Man's murdered victims; and he shuddered
as he thought that such might have been his fate!

In the centre of the cellar an apparatus of singular appearance attracted his notice; and approaching
it he instantly became convinced that this was the secret outlet for which he sought. Four
strong, upright posts supported two ponderous iron crossbars, to which were attached four ropes
of great thickness and strength, these ropes were connected with a wooden platform, about six
feet square; and beneath the platform was a dark and yawning chasm.

Closely examining this apparatus, our hero saw that by an ingenious contrivance, a person standing
on the platform could, by turning a crank, raise or lower himself at will. He cautiously approached
the edge of the chasm, and holding down the light, endeavored to penetrate through the darkness;
but in vain--he could see nothing, though he could faintly hear a dull, sluggish sound like
that produced by the flowing of a vast body of muddy water, and at the same time an awful stench
which arose from the black gulf, compelled him to return a short distance.

'The mystery is solved,' he thought--'that fearful hole leads to the subterranean sewers of
the city, and also to the Dark Vaults beyond them. By means of that platform, the villains
of the Infernal Regions below, can pass to and from their den with facility and safety.'

At this moment he heard the vast bell of the City Hall proclaiming the hour of midnight; and
he remembered that the woman had told him that her husband, the Dead Man, would return in an
hour from that time. At first it occurred to him to await the miscreant's coming, and endeavor
to capture him--but then he reflected that the Dead Man might return accompanied by other villains,
in which case the plan would not only be impracticable, but his own life would be endangered.

'And even were the villain to come back alone,' thought Frank, 'were I to spring upon him,
he might give some signal which would bring to his aid his band of desperadoes from the Vaults
below. No--I must not needlessly peril my own life; I will depart from the house now, satisfied
for the present with the discoveries I have made, and trusting to be enabled at no distant
time to come here with a force sufficient to overcome the hideous ruffian and all his band.'

Leaving the cellar, he traversed the entry and attempted to open the front door; but to his
surprise it was securely locked, nor could all his efforts push back the massive bolts which
held it fast. He re-entered the room, and examining the windows, found them furnished with
thick iron bars like the windows of a prison, so that to pass through them was impossible;
and further investigation resulted in the unpleasant conviction that he was a prisoner in that
dreadful house, with no immediate means of escape.

He again descended into the cellar, and began seriously to reflect upon the realities of his
situation. He was a young man of determination and courage: yet he could not entirely subdue
those feelings of uneasiness and alarm which were natural under the circumstances. He was alone,
at midnight, in that abode of crime and murder; near him lay the corpse of an unfortunate fellow
creature, who had without a doubt fallen by the hand of an assassin; he was momentarily expecting
the return of that arch-miscreant, who would show him no mercy; a deep, unbroken silence, and
an air of fearful mystery, reigned in that gloomy cellar and throughout that awful house--and
before him, dark and yawning as the gate of hell, was that black and infernal pit which led
to the subterranean caverns of the Dark Vaults, far below.

'I will sell my life dearly, at all events,' thought our hero, as he drew a bowie knife from
his breast, and felt its keen, glittering edge; then impelled by a sudden thought, he advanced
to the mouth of the pit, and cut the four ropes, which sustained the wooden platform, so nearly
asunder, that they would be almost sure to break with a slight additional weight.

He had scarcely accomplished this task, when a strange, unnatural cry resounded throughout
the cellar--a cry so indescribably fearful that it chilled his blood with horror. It was almost
instantly followed by a low and melancholy wail, so intense, so solemn, so profoundly expressive
of human misery, that Frank was convinced that some unfortunate being was near him, plunged
in deepest anguish and distress.

In a few moments the sound entirely ceased, and silence resumed its reign; then Frank, actuated
by the noble feelings of his generous nature, said, in a loud voice--

'If there is any unhappy creature who now hears me, and who needs my charitable aid, let him
or her speak, that I may know where to direct my search.'

No answer was returned to this request; all was profoundly silent. Frank, however, was determined
to fathom the mystery; accordingly, he began a careful search throughout the cellar, and finally
discovered in an obscure corner an iron door, which was secured on the outside by a bolt--to
draw back this bolt and throw open this door, was but the work of a moment; and our hero was
about to enter the cell thus revealed, when a hideous being started from the further end of
the dungeon, and with an awful yell rushed out into the cellar, and hid itself in a deep embrasure
of the wall.

Whether this creature were human or not, the rapidity of its flight prevented Frank from ascertaining,
he cautiously advanced to the place where it had concealed itself, and by the dim light of
the lamp which he carried, he saw, crouching down upon the cold, damp earth, a living object
which appalled him; it was a human creature, but so horribly and unnaturally deformed, that
it was a far more dreadful object to behold than the most loathsome of the brute creation.

It was of pygmy size, its shrunk limbs distorted and fleshless, and its lank body covered with
filthy rags; its head, of enormous size, was entirely devoid of hair; and the unnatural shape
as well as the prodigious dimensions of that bald cranium, betokened beastly idiocy. Its features,
ghastly and terrible to look upon, bore a strange resemblance to those of the Dead Man! and
its snake-like eyes were fixed upon Frank with the ferocity of a poisonous reptile about to
spring upon its prey.

'Who art thou?' demanded our hero, as he surveyed the hideous object with horror and disgust.

It answered not, but again set up its low and melancholy wail. Then with extraordinary agility,
it sprang from its retreat, and bounding towards the dungeon, entered, and crouched down in
one corner, making the cellar resound with its awful shrieks.

''Tis more beast than human,' thought Frank--'I will fasten it in its den, or it may attack
me;' and closing the door, he secured it with the bolt. As he did so, he heard the deep-toned
bell peal forth the hour of--one!

'It is the hour appointed for the return of the Dead Man!' said our hero to himself, with a
shudder; and instantly it occurred to him that he might have descended to the Dark Vaults and
escaped that way, had he not cut the ropes which supported the platform. But then he reflected
that on reaching the Vaults he would be almost certain to fall into the power of the villains
assembled there; and he ceased to regret having cut the ropes.

His attention was suddenly arrested by observing the platform descend into the abyss, moved
by an unseen agency; for the apparatus was so contrived, that a person in the Vaults below
could lower or raise the platform at will, by means of a rope connected with it.

Frank had anticipated that the Dead Man would enter the house through the front door; but he
now felt convinced that the miscreant was about to ascend on the platform from the Vaults;
and he said to himself--

''Tis well--these almost severed ropes will not sustain the villain's weight, and if he attains
to any considerable height, and then falls, his instant death is certain.'

The platform reached the bottom of the abyss--a short pause ensued, and then it began slowly
to ascend; higher, higher it mounted, until our hero, fearing that the rope might not break,
was about to cut it again, when a yell of agony reached his ear from the depths of the pit,
and at the same moment the slackened condition of the rope convinced him that the platform
had fallen. He listened, and heard a sound like the plunging of a body into water; then all
was silent as the grave.

'The villain has met with a just doom,' thought Frank; and no longer apprehensive of the return
of his mortal enemy, he left the cellar, and entering the room above, in which the stolen goods
were deposited, threw himself upon a heap of clothes and garments, and fell into a deep slumber.

It was broad daylight when he awoke; and starting up, his eyes rested upon an object which
caused him to recoil with horror. The woman whom he had left insensible from the effects of
the powerful drug which she had taken, was standing near him, her eyes rolling with insanity,
her hair dishevelled, her clothes torn to rags and her face scratched and bleeding, she having
in her own madness inflicted the wounds with her own nails.

'Ha!' she exclaimed--'had'st thou not awakened, I would have killed thee! Thy heart would have
made me a brave breakfast, and I would have banqueted on thy life-blood! Go hence--go hence!
thou shalt not unfold the awful mysteries of this charnel-house!--Ye must not behold the murdered
man who lies rotting in the cellar, nor open the dark dungeon of the deformed child of crime!--'tis
the hideous offspring of hideous parents--my child and the Dead Man's! 'Twas a judgement from
Heaven, that monstrous being; we dare not kill it, so we shut it up from the light of day.
Go hence--go hence, or I will fly at thee and tear thine eyes out!'

Frank left the room, and ascended to the chamber, hoping to find a key which would enable him
to unlock the front door; and in a table drawer he discovered one, which he doubted not would
release him from his imprisonment. Before departing, he wrote the following words on a scrap
of paper:--

     'If the villain known as the Dead Man still lives, he is
     informed that he is indebted to me for his unexpected fall
     last night. Let the miscreant tremble--for I have penetrated
     the mysteries of this infernal den, and my vengeance, if not
     ordinary justice, will speedily overtake him!

     SYDNEY.'

Leaving the note upon the table, Frank descended the stairs, unlocked the door, and departed
from that abode of crime and horror.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: A stool pigeon is a person who associates with thieves, in order to betray their
secrets to the police officers, in reference to any robbery which has been committed, or which
may be in contemplation. As a reward for furnishing such information, the stool pigeon is allowed
to steal and rob, on his own account, with almost perfect impunity.]

CHAPTER XV

Showing the pranks played in the Haunted House by the two Skeletons.

When Mrs. Belmont awoke from the swoon into which she had fallen, at sight of the terrible
apparition which had visited her, daylight was shining through the windows of her chamber.
She immediately recalled to mind the events of the preceding night, and resolved to remove
without delay from a house which was troubled with such fearful visitants.

Her maid Susan soon entered, to assist her in dressing; and she learned that the girl had neither
seen nor heard anything of a mysterious or ghostly nature, during the night. But when the lady
related what she had seen, the terror of poor Susan knew no bounds, and she declared her determination
not to sleep alone in the house another night.

While at breakfast, a visitor was announced, who proved to be the landlord, Mr. Hedge. The
old gentleman entered with many apologies for his intrusion, and said--

'To confess the truth, my dear madam, I am anxious to learn how you passed the night. Were
you disturbed by any of the goblins or spectres which are supposed to haunt the house?'

Julia related everything which had occurred, and Mr. Hedge expressed great astonishment and
concern.

'It is singular--very singular, and fearful,' said he musingly--'a terrible blot seems to rest
upon this house; I must abandon the hope of ever having it occupied, as I presume you now desire
to remove from it, as a matter of course?'

'Such was my intention,' replied Julia, 'but you will be surprised when I assure you that within
the last hour I have changed my mind, and am now resolved to remain here. To me there is a
charm in mystery, even when that mystery, as in the present instance, is fraught with terror.
I think I need entertain no apprehension of receiving personal injury from these ghostly night-walkers,
for if they wished to harm me, they could have done so last night. Hereafter, my maid shall
sleep in my chamber with me; I shall place a dagger under my pillow, with which to defend myself
in case of any attempted injury or outrage--and I shall await the coming of my spectral friend
with feelings of mingled dread and pleasure.'

'I am delighted to hear you say so,' rejoined the old gentleman, as he surveyed the animated
countenance and fine form of the courageous woman with admiration. In truth, Julia looked very
charming that morning; she was dressed in voluptuous dishabille, which partially revealed a
bust whose luxurious fullness and exquisite symmetry are rarely equalled by the divine creations
of the sculptor's art.

'She is very beautiful,' thought the old gentleman; and the sluggish current of his blood began
to course thro' his veins with something of the ardor of youth.

Mr. Hedge was a wealthy old bachelor;--and like the majority of individuals, who belong to
that class, he adored pretty women, but had always adored them at a distance. To him, woman
was a divinity; he bowed at her shrine, but dared not presume to taste the nectar of her lips,
or inhale the perfume of her sighs. He had always regarded such familiarity as a type of sacrilege.
But now, seated tete-a-tete with that charming creature, and feasting his eyes upon her voluptuous
beauty, his awe of the divinity merged into a burning admiration of the woman.

Julia knew that Mr. Hedge was rich. 'He admires me,' thought she,--'he is old, but wealthy;
I will try to fascinate him, and if he desires me to become either his wife or mistress, I
will consent, for a connection with him would be to my pecuniary advantage.'

And she did fascinate him, as much by her sparkling wit and graceful discourse, as by her charms
of person. She related to him a very pleasing little fiction entirely the offspring of her
own fertile imagination, which purported to be a history of her own past life. She stated that
she was the widow of an English gentleman; she had recently come to America, and had but few
acquaintances, and still fewer friends; she felt the loneliness of her situation, and admitted
that she much desired a friend to counsel and protect her; the adroit adventuress concluded
her extemporaneous romance by adroitly insinuating that her income was scarcely adequate to
her respectable maintenance.

Mr. Hedge listened attentively to this narrative, and religiously believed every word of it.
While the lady was speaking, he had drawn his chair close to hers, and taken one of her small,
delicate hands in his. We must do him the justice to observe, that though her beauty had inspired
him with passion, he nevertheless sincerely sympathised with her on account of her pretended
misfortunes--and, supposing her to be strictly virtuous, he entertained not the slightest wish
to take advantage of her unprotected situation.

'My dear young lady,' said he--'although I have known you but a very short time, I have become
exceedingly interested in you. I am an old man--old enough to be your father; and as a father
I now speak to you.--What I am about to say, might seem impertinent and offensive in a young
man, but you will pardon it in me. You have unconscientiously dropped a hint touching the insufficiency
of your income to maintain you as a lady should be maintained. I am rich--deign to accept from
me as a gift--or as a loan, if you will--this scrap of paper; 'tis valueless to me, for I have
more money than I need. The gift--or loan--shall be repeated as often as your necessities require
it.'

He squeezed a bank-note into her hand--and when she, with affected earnestness, desired him
to take it back, assuring him that she needed no immediate pecuniary aid, he insisted that
she should retain it; and shortly afterwards he arose and took his leave, having easily obtained
permission to call upon her the next day.

'Egad, she would make me a charming wife--if she would only have me,' thought the old gentleman,
as he left the house.

'Five hundred dollars!' exclaimed Julia, as she examined the bank-note which he had given her--'how
liberal! I have fairly entrapped the silly old man; he is too honorable to propose that I should
become his mistress, and he will probably offer me his hand in marriage. I will accept him
at once--and to avoid detection, I shall remove with my venerable husband to Boston, which
I have heard is a charming city, where a woman of fashion and intrigue can lead a glorious
and brilliant career.'

That night she retired early to rest, and her maid Susan shared her chamber--an arrangement
highly satisfactory to the abigail, who was glad of company in a house where ghosts were in
the habit of perambulating during the night.

Neither mistress nor maid closed an eye in slumber--but midnight came, and they had not seen
nor heard anything of a ghostly nature. Yet strange events were taking place in the house,--events
which will throw light upon the fearful mysteries of the place.

It was about an hour after midnight, when a large stone among those of which the foundation
of the house was built, turned slowly upon pivots, revealing an aperture in the wall, and at
the same instant the glare of a lantern shone into the cellar.

From the aperture emerged two persons of frightful appearance, one of whom carried the lantern;
they were both dressed in tight-fitting garments of black cloth, upon which was daubed in white
paint the figure of a skeleton; and each of their faces had been blacked, and then drawn over
with the representation of a skull. Seen by an imperfect light, they exactly resembled two
skeletons.

'By Jesus!' exclaimed one of them, in a tone which was anything but hollow or sepulchral--'let's
put for the pantry and see what there is to ate, for be the powers I'm starved wid hunger!'

'That's the talk, Bloody Mike--- so we will,' responded the other worthy, who was no other
than our old friend Ragged Pete, though his nearest relatives would never have recognized him
in the disguise he then wore.

Mike and Pete ascended to the pantry, and began a diligent search after provisions.

'Glory to ould Ireland, here's grand illigant ham!' exclaimed the first mentioned individual,
as he dragged from a shelf a large dish containing the article he had named.

'And blow me tight if here isn't a cold turkey and a pan of pudding,' rejoined Pete, whose
researches had also been crowned with success.

'Faith, it's ourselves, Peter, dear, that'll have a supper fit for the bishop of Cork, an'
that's a big word,' remarked Mike, as he triumphantly placed upon a table the savory viands
above mentioned, and 'fell to' with surpassing vigor, an example in which he was followed by
his comrade.

'This playing the ghost is a good business, by jingo!' said Pete, with his mouth full of ham.

'True for ye!' replied the Irish skeleton, his articulation rendered indistinct by the masses
of turkey which were fast travelling down his throat to his capacious stomach.

The repast was not finished until they had devoured every atom of the provisions; and then
Pete went in quest of something to 'wash the wittles down with,' as he expressed it.

Upon a sideboard in the adjoining room he found wines and liquors of excellent quality, which
he and his companion were soon engaged in discussing, with as much ease and comfort as if they
were joint proprietors of the whole concern.

The two gentlemen grew quite cosey and confidential over their wine, and as their conversation
mainly referred to matters in which the reader perhaps feels an interest, we shall so far intrude
upon their privacy as to report the same.

'I've news to tell you, Mike,' said Pete--'the Dead Man has somehow or other found out that
the lady who moved into this house yesterday, is the wife of Mr. Sydney, the rich chap that
he hates so infernally 'cause he had him arrested once. Well, you know that last night some
one cut the ropes that hoists the platform from the Vaults, so that the Dead Man fell and came
nigh breaking his neck; and as it is, he's so awfully bruised that he won't have the use of
his limbs for some time to come--besides, he fell into the sewers, and would have been drowned,
if I hadn't heerd him, and dragged him out. The chap wot played him that trick was this same
Sydney; for a note was found this morning in Anthony street crib, bragging about it, and signed
with his name. Now it seems that his wife that lives in this house, and who we are trying to
skeer out of it, as we have done all the others that ever lived here--it seems that she hates
Sydney like thunder and wants to be revenged on him for something--and that the Dead Man found
that out, too. So 'our boss' thinks he'll try and set up a partnership with this Mrs. Belmont,
as she calls herself--and with her aid he calculates to get Mr. Sydney into his power. If the
lady and him sets up business together, our services as ghosts won't be wanted any longer;
and I'm very sorry for it, because we've had glorious times in this house, frightening people,
and making them believe the place was haunted.'

As this long harangue rendered Pete thirsty, he extinguished his eloquence for a few moments
in a copious draught of choice Burgundy.

'That row at Pat Mulligan's last night was a divilish nate affair,' remarked Mike.

'Yes,' said Pete--'and we all got bundled off to the watch-house; but the Captain let me go--he
always does, because I vote for his party. After I got clear, I came here, wrapped in a great
sheet, and went up into Mrs. Belmont's chamber; after frightening the poor woman almost to
death, I goes up to the bed, puts my hand on her face, and tells her that she'd see me agin--whereupon
she gives a great shriek, and I cut my puck through the hole in the cellar.'

'Be the powers,' remarked Bloody Mike--'it's a great convenience entirely, to have thim sacret
passages from the Vault into intarior of houses; there's two of thim, one under the crib in
Anthony street, and the other under this dacent house in Rade street.'

'Yes, you're right,' said Pete--'but come, let's do our business and be off--it's near three
o'clock.'

The two worthies mounted the stairs with noiseless steps, and pausing before Mrs. Belmont's
chamber, Ragged Pete gave utterance to an awful groan. A stifled shriek from the interior of
the room convinced them the inmates were awake and terribly frightened.

Pete's groan was followed by a violent hiccuping on the part of Bloody Mike--for, to confess
the truth, that convivial gentleman had imbibed so freely that he was, in vulgar parlance,
most essentially drunk.

'Stop that infernal noise, and follow me into the room,' whispered Pete, who, having confined
himself to wine instead of brandy, was comparatively sober.

'Lade on, I'm after ye!' roared the Irish skeleton. Pete, finding the door locked gave it a
tremendous kick, and it burst open with a loud crash.

Julia and her maid screamed with horror and affright, as they beheld two hideous forms resembling
skeletons come rushing into the room.

Ragged Pete advanced to the bedside of Mrs. Belmont, and threw himself into an approved pugilistic
attitude, as if challenging that lady to take a 'set to' with him; while Bloody Mike stumbled
over the prostrate form of the lady's maid, who occupied a temporary bed upon the floor. Forgetting
his assumed part, he yelled out for something to drink, and forthwith began to sing in tones
of thunder, the pathetic Hibernian ballad commencing with--

    'A sayman courted a farmer's daughter,
    That lived convenient to the Isle of Man.'

'The devil!--you'll spoil all,' muttered Pete, as he seized Mike, and with difficulty dragged
him from the room. 'Ain't you a nice skeleton, to get drunk and sing love songs,' he whispered
contemptuously, pulling his inebriated comrade downstairs after him: 'No dacent ghost ever
gets as corn'd as you be,' he added, as they entered the 'hole in the wall;' after which the
stone was turned into its place, which it fitted so exactly, that the most critical eye could
not have discovered anything to indicate that it had ever been moved at all.

Mrs. Belmont was now fully satisfied in her own mind that there was nothing supernatural about
the nocturnal intruders, but that they were in reality substantial flesh and blood, and though
she could not divine how they had entered the house, she was much relieved and comforted by
the assurance that it was with living men she had to deal--a conviction which was amply confirmed
the next morning, when the havoc done to the eatables and drinkables was announced to her by
the indignant Susan.

In the afternoon Mr. Hedge called upon her as appointed, and dined with his interesting and
fascinating tenant.

After dinner, Julia caused the sofa to be wheeled in front of the glorious fire which glowed
in the grate (for the weather was intensely cold) and seating herself, invited the old gentleman
to place himself at her side.

Then she exerted all her fine powers of discourse to increase his admiration, and draw from
him a declaration of love, and an offer of marriage.

Wine was brought in, and gradually their spirits became enlivened by the sparkling genii of
the grape. The old man felt the fires of youth careering through his veins, and his withered
cheek was suffused with a flush of passion.

'Beautiful Julia,' said he--'I observe that you have a magnificent piano; will you favor me
with an air?'

She smiled an assent, and her aged admirer conducted her to the instrument with the most ceremonious
politeness. After a brilliant prelude, executed with artistic delicacy and skill, she dashed
off into a superb Italian air, which raised her listener (who was passionately devoted to music,)
into the seventh heaven of ecstasy.

'Glorious!--grand!' were his exclamations of delight, when she had finished the air and she
needed no urgent persuasion to induce her to favor him with another.

Artfully and admirably did she compose an extempore song, adapted to immediate circumstances,
beginning--'I love no vain and fickle youth,' and beautifully depicting the love of a young
woman for a man advanced in years. She sung it with a most touching air, and threw into her
countenance and style an expression of melting tenderness.

Ere she had terminated, the old gentleman was kneeling at her feet; and pressing her fair hand
to his lips.

'Divine creature,' he murmured--'can you pardon the presumption and foolishness of an old man,
who dares to love you? Your beauty and your fascinations have conquered and bewildered me.
I know that the proposal coming from me, is madness--I know that you will reject my suit with
disdain--yet hear me Julia; I am an old, rich and solitary man--I need some gentle ray of sunshine
to gild my few remaining years--I need some beautiful creature, like yourself, to preside over
my gloomy household, and cheer me in my loneliness by her delightful society and the music
of her voice. Boundless wealth shall be at your command; no restraint shall ever be placed
upon the number of your servants, the splendor of your carriages and equipages, the costliness
of your jewels; and the magnificence of your amusements. Speak--and seal my destiny.'

And Julia did speak, and became the affianced wife of Mr. Hedge. Her operations thus far had
been crowned with triumphant success.

It was arranged that their marriage should take as privately as possible in one month, from
that day.--Julia suggested that, immediately after their union, they should remove to Boston,
and take up their permanent residence in that city, to which proposal the old gentleman gave
a cheerful consent.

'And if you have no objection, my dear Julia,' said he, 'we will be united by Dr. Sinclair,
the young and excellent rector of St. Paul's, to which church I belong.'

Julia signified her compliance with the arrangement. She had both seen and admired the young
rector, and thought him handsome--very handsome.

Previous to Mr. Hedge's departure that evening, he presented her with a large sum of money,
to defray, he said, the expenses necessary to be incurred in her preparations for the marriage.
Then the enamored old gentleman kissed her hand, and took his leave.

When he was gone, Julia abandoned herself to the pleasing thoughts engendered by her present
brilliant prospects. While in the midst of these agreeable meditations, she was interrupted
by the sound of a footstep behind her; and turning, she beheld a man of an aspect so hideous
and revolting, that she screamed with terror.

'Hush! be silent, madam--I mean you no harm,' said the man, as he closed the door, and seated
himself at her side upon the sofa. Julia gazed on him with surprise and dread. His face, which
at best was the most loathsome and horrible ever worn by man, was mangled and bruised as if
by some severe and terrible injury; he moved with evident pain and difficulty, and carried
one of his arms in a sling.

'Our interview shall be brief, and to the point,' said the mysterious visitor. 'I am he who
is called the Dead Man, and I am not disposed to quarrel with the title, for I like it.--You
and your history are known to me; it matters not how I obtained my information; you are styled
Mrs. Belmont, a widow--but you are the discarded wife of Francis Sydney, and half an hour ago
you engaged yourself in marriage to Mr. Hedge, the owner of this house.'

Julia started with alarm, for she felt that she was in the power of that terrible man.

'What is the object of your visit?' she asked.

'Listen and you shall know. I have a secret subterranean cavern which communicates with the
cellar of this building, and 'twas by that means I entered the house to-night. Myself and friends
often find it convenient to carry stolen goods through this house into our den; and in order
to have the place all to ourselves, we have heretofore frightened away the people who have
come here to live; thus the house is reputed to be haunted. 'Twas our design to frighten you
away, also; but having discovered who and what you are, I've concluded to explain the mystery,
and set up a copartnership with you.'

'And in what business can we possibly be connected together?' asked Julia, with ill-concealed
disgust.

'In the business of vengeance!' thundered the Dead Man, foaming with rage. 'Tell me, woman--do
you hate Sydney?'

'I do!--and would sell my soul to be revenged upon him,' she replied with flashing eyes.

'Enough!' cried the other, with triumphant joy--'I knew you would join me in my plan of vengeance.
Now, madam, from this moment we are friends--partners, rather let me say--and there's my hand
upon it.' And he gripped her hand almost fiercely, while she shuddered at the awful contact.
It seemed as if she were touching a corpse.

'Hereafter,' continued the miscreant,--'you shall rest at night securely in this house, undisturbed
by pretended ghosts. Do you see these wounds and bruises?--for them I am indebted to Sydney;
my wife is a raging maniac, and I am also indebted to him for that--and by eternal hell! when
I get him in my power, he shall die by inches; he shall suffer every slow torture which my
ingenuity can devise; his brain shall burn, and when death shall end his torments, I have sworn
to eat his heart; and by G----, I'll do it!'

'But how will you get him into your power?' asked Julia, delighted with the prospect of revenging
herself upon poor Frank.

