It is scarcely possible to believe that Mr. Chamberlain, with Lord Milner's telegrams before
him, was himself prepared to accept President Krüger's illusory franchise scheme. The source
of the weakness of the Government in the conduct of the negotiations, no less than in its refusal
to make adequate preparations for war, is to be found in the inability of the mass of the people
of England to understand how completely British power in South Africa had been undermined by
the Afrikander nationalists during the last twenty years. How could the average elector know
that the refusal or acceptance of the Volksraad Bill, differing only from the Bloemfontein
minimum in an insignificant--as it seemed--particular of two years, would, in fact, make known
to all European South Africa whether President Krüger or the British Government was master
of the sub-continent? In view of this profound ignorance of South African conditions, and the
consequent uncertainty of any assured support, even from the members of their own party, the
Salisbury Cabinet may well have argued: "Here is something at last that we can represent as
a genuine concession. Let us take it, and have done with this troublesome South African question;
or leave it to the next Liberal Government to settle."

If the Cabinet did so reason to themselves, what English statesman could have "cast the first
stone" at them? But how profound is the interval between the spirit of the policy of "the man
on the spot," with his eyes upon the object, and the spirit of the policy of the island statesman
with one eye upon the hustings and the other strained to catch an intermittent glimpse of an
unfamiliar and distant Africa!

[Sidenote: Lord Milner's anxiety.]

This 19th of July was a dark day for the High Commissioner. In the morning came Mr. Chamberlain's
telegram with its ominous suggestion of a change for the worse in the attitude of the Home
Government. And this change in the Cabinet was, as Lord Milner knew, only the natural reflection
of a wider change, which had manifested itself among the supporters of the Government and in
the country at large since the publication, on June 14th, of his despatch of May 4th. Private
letters had made him aware that to men to whom Dutch ascendancy at the Cape and Boer tyranny
in the Transvaal, Afrikander nationalism and Boer armaments, were meaningless expressions,
his resolute advocacy of the Uitlanders' cause and his frank presentation of the weakness of
Great Britain had seemed the work of a disordered imagination or a violent partisanship. Nor
was his knowledge of the relapse in England limited to the warnings or protests of his private
friends. The South African News, the ministerial organ, which of late had filled its columns
with adverse criticisms taken from the London Press, this morning contained a bitter article
on him reprinted from Punch, which had arrived by the yesterday's mail. After all, it seemed,
the long struggle against mis-government in the Transvaal was going to end in failure; and
the British people would once more be befooled. With such thoughts in his mind, Lord Milner
must have found the work of making up the weekly despatches for the Colonial Office--for it
was a Wednesday[116]--a wearisome and depressing task. The mail was detained until long past
the customary hour. But before it left, in spite of discouragement and anxiety, Lord Milner
had gathered together into a brief compass all the documents necessary to put Mr. Chamberlain
in possession of every material fact relative to the new law--passed only on the day before--and
to the proceedings of the Transvaal Executive and the Volksraad between the 12th and the 19th.
And, in addition to this, he had written a fresh estimate of the Franchise Bill in its latest
form, in which he emphasised his former verdict that the proposals which it contained were
not such as the Uitlanders would be likely to accept. And in particular he pointed out that
the fact of the final amendment being thus readily adopted by the Volksraad disposed of the
contention, upon which President Krüger had laid so much stress at Bloemfontein, that his "burghers"
would not permit him to make the concessions which the British Government required. He wrote:

         [Footnote 116: The English outward mail-boat arrived on
         Tuesday, and the homeward boat left on Wednesday.]

     "On July 12th Her Majesty's Government requested the Government
     of the South African Republic to give them time to consider the
     measure and communicate their views before it was proceeded with.
     To this the Government of the South African Republic replied, on
     July 13th, with a polite negative, saying that 'the whole matter
     was out of the hands of the Government, and it was no longer
     possible for the Government to satisfy the demands of the
     Secretary of State.' The State-Attorney informed Mr. Greene[117]
     at the same time that 'the present proposals represented
     absolutely the greatest concession that could be got from the
     Volksraad, and could not be enlarged. He personally had tried
     hard for seven years' retrospective franchise, but the Raad would
     not hear of it, and it was only with difficulty that the present
     proposals were obtained.' This was on the 12th, but within a week
     the seven years' retrospective franchise had been adopted.
     Indeed, the statement of the absolute impossibility of obtaining
     more than a particular measure of enfranchisement from the
     Volksraad or the burghers has been made over and over again in
     the history of this question--never more emphatically than by the
     President himself at Bloemfontein--and has over and over again
     been shown to be a delusion."[118]

         [Footnote 117: Sir W. Greene became a K.C.B. after the war
         had broken out.]

         [Footnote 118: C. 9,518.]

[Sidenote: Mr. Chamberlain's statement.]

But this full record of the shifts and doublings of Boer diplomacy would not reach London for
another two weeks and a half. It was necessary, therefore, to use the cable. Early the next
morning Lord Milner sent a telegram to the Secretary of State, in which he warned the Home
Government of the extreme discouragement produced among all who were attached to the British
connection by The Times statement of their readiness to accept the Franchise Bill. On that
afternoon (July 20th), Mr. Chamberlain made a statement in the House of Commons in which he
took up a much more satisfactory position. The Government, he said, were led to hope that the
new law "might prove to be a basis of settlement on the lines laid down" by Lord Milner at
the Bloemfontein Conference. They observed, however, that "a number of conditions" which might
be used "to take away with one hand what had been given with the other" were still retained.

That is to say, Mr. Chamberlain was no longer willing to take the bill at its face value, but
in accordance with his determination to exhaust every possible resource of diplomacy before
he turned to force, he gave President Krüger credit for a genuine desire to promote a peaceable
settlement. A week later he formulated the method by which the President was to be allowed
an opportunity of justifying this generous estimate of his intentions. In the meantime Lord
Milner had sent lengthy telegrams to the Secretary of State on the 23rd, and again on the 26th,
and the Salisbury Cabinet had determined to make a definite pronouncement of its South African
policy, and to endeavour to arouse the country to a sense of the seriousness of the situation
with which President Krüger's continued obduracy would bring it face to face. On July 27th
Mr. Balfour declared, in addressing the Union of Conservative Associations, that--

     "If endless patience, endless desire to prevent matters coming to
     extremities, if all the resources of diplomacy, were utterly
     ineffectual to untie the knot, other means must inevitably be
     found by which that knot must be loosened."

On the day following (July 28th) the Transvaal question was debated in both Houses of Parliament.
In the House of Lords the Prime Minister, Lord Salisbury, delivered a moderate and almost sympathetic
speech. After making all allowance for the natural apprehension experienced by President Krüger
at the sudden inrush of population caused by the discovery of the Witwatersrand gold-fields,
he expressed the opinion that an attempt "to put the two races fairly and honestly on the same
footing" would bring a peaceful solution of the crisis. But, he added--

     "How long we are to consider that solution, and what patience we
     are bound to show, these things I will not discuss. We have to
     consider not only the feelings of the inhabitants of the
     Transvaal, but, what is more important, the feelings of our
     fellow-subjects.... Whatever happens, when the validity of the
     Conventions is impeached, they belong from that time entirely to
     history. I am quite sure that if this country has to make
     exertions in order to secure the most elementary justice for
     British subjects,--I am quite sure [it] will not reinstate a
     state of things that will bring back the old difficulties in all
     their formidable character at the next turn of the wheel. Without
     intruding on his thoughts, I do not think President Krüger has
     sufficiently considered this."

[Sidenote: The Joint Commission.]

In the House of Commons Mr. Chamberlain announced that he had proposed to the Transvaal Government
that a joint commission should be appointed to test the efficacy of the scheme of electoral
reform embodied in the new Franchise Law. This proposal was set out in detail in a despatch
already addressed to the High Commissioner, the substance of which had been telegraphed[119]
to him on the preceding day (July 27th). The British Government assumed that "the concessions
now made to the Uitlanders were intended in good faith to secure to them some approach to the
equality which was promised in 1881"; they proposed that the "complicated details and questions
of a technical nature" involved in the new law should be discussed in the first instance by
delegates appointed by the High Commissioner and by the South African Republic; and if, and
when, a "satisfactory agreement" had been reached on these points, they further proposed that
all disputes as to the terms of the Convention should be settled by a "judicial authority,
whose independence ... would be above suspicion," and all remaining matters in respect of the
political representation of the Uitlanders by "another personal Conference" between the High
Commissioner and President Krüger.

         [Footnote 119: C. 9,518.]

Although the position which the Salisbury Cabinet had now taken up was one which placed them
beyond the danger of accepting an illusory franchise scheme in lieu of an adequate measure
of reform, it was not the course of action which was best to follow, except from the point
of view of opening the eyes of the British public. In itself further delay was dangerous. It
gave the Boers more time to arm, while we, for this very reason for which it was necessary
to protract the negotiations, were prevented from arming vigorously. It discouraged our friends
in South Africa, and made them even begin to doubt whether Great Britain "meant business."
It was good policy to offer the Joint Inquiry, given the truth of the assumption upon which
this offer was based--namely, that the Bill represented an honest desire on the part of President
Krüger to provide a peaceable settlement of the Uitlander question. Lord Milner knew, within
the limits of human intelligence, that this assumption was wholly unwarranted. The Home Government
apparently did not. As the result of this difference, Lord Milner's policy was again deflected
to the extent that two months of negotiation were devoted to a purely futile endeavour to persuade
the Pretoria Executive to prove the good faith of a proposal, which was never intended to be
anything more than a pretext for delay. And, as before, the injury to British interests lay
in the fact that, while the Home Government was prevented from making any adequate use of this
delay by its determination not to make preparations for war until war was in sight, the period
was fully utilised by President Krüger, who since Bloemfontein had been resolutely hastening
the arrangements necessary for attacking the British colonies at a given moment with the entire
burgher forces of the two Republics.

[Sidenote: Krüger urged to accept.]

The offer of the Joint Inquiry was formally communicated to the Pretoria Executive in an eminently
friendly telegram[120] from Lord Milner on August 1st. Efforts were made on all sides to induce
President Krüger to accept it. Chief Justice de Villiers wrote strongly in this sense to Mr.
Fischer,[121] and to his brother Melius, the Chief Justice of the Free State. Mr. Schreiner
telegraphed to Mr. Fischer, and Mr. Hofmeyr to President Steyn, both urging that the influence
of the Free State should be used in favour of the proposal. Mr. Montagu White, the Transvaal
Consul-General in London, cabled that "Courtney, Labouchere, both our friends, and friendly
papers without exception," recommended this course; and that "refusal meant war and would estrange
friends." The letter which he wrote to Mr. Reitz on the same day (August 4th), possesses an
independent interest, as revealing the degree in which the friends of the Boers in England
had identified themselves with the policy of the Afrikander party in the Cape Colony.

         [Footnote 120: C. 9,518.]

         [Footnote 121: See p. 218 for this letter.]

         [Footnote 122: Cd. 547.]

         [Footnote 123: Ibid.]

     "The essence of friendly advice," said Mr. White,[124] "is:
     Accept the proposal in principle, point out how difficult it will
     be to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion as to statistics, etc.,
     and how undesirable it would be to have a miscarriage of the
     Commission. In other words: Gain as much time as you can, and
     give the public time here to get out of the dangerous frame of
     mind which Chamberlain's speeches have created.... Labouchere
     said to me this morning: 'Don't, for goodness' sake, let Mr.
     Krüger make his first mistake by refusing this; a little skilful
     management, and he will give Master Joe another fall.' He further
     said: 'You are such past-masters of the art of gaining time; here
     is an opportunity; you surely haven't let your right hands lose
     their cunning, and you ought to spin out the negotiations for
     quite two or three months.'"

         [Footnote 124: Cd. 369.]

A week later (August 11th), President Krüger received a telegram[125] in which fifty Afrikander
members of the Cape Parliament advanced the same argument. The acceptance of the Joint Commission,
they pointed out, would provide a way out of a crisis "which might prove fatal to the best
interests, not only of our Transvaal and Free State brethren, but also of the Afrikander party."
They, therefore, begged his Honour to "lay their words privately" before the Executive and
the Volksraad.

         [Footnote 125: Secured by the Intelligence Department.]

[Sidenote: Krüger resolved on war.]

But President Krüger, like Lord Milner, had his eyes fixed upon the object. He looked beyond
the Afrikander leaders to the rank and file of the Dutch population in the British colonies,
with whom he had been in direct communication through his agents for many months past.[126]
He knew that any such inquiry as Mr. Chamberlain proposed would expose the flagrant insincerity
of the Franchise Bill. On August 2nd he had telegraphed to President Steyn that compliance
with the Joint Commission was "tantamount to the destruction of the independence of the Republic."[127]
To the Dutch Consul-General[128] he was perfectly frank: "Defeats such as the English had suffered
in the war for freedom, and later under Jameson, had never been suffered by the Boers." His
burghers were ready to "go on the battue of Englishmen," when he gave the word.[129]

         [Footnote 126: It was known to the Intelligence Department
         that Krüger's secret agents had been in the Cape Colony for
         two years before the outbreak of war, and that they had
         distributed arms in certain districts of the Colony.]

         [Footnote 127: Secured by the Intelligence Department.]

         [Footnote 128: Cd. 547.]

         [Footnote 129: The expression "Ons wil nou Engelse schiet"
         was actually used. See Thomas's Origin of the Anglo-Boer War
         Revealed, p. 110.]

[Sidenote: Fischer ceases to "mediate".]

The burghers of the Free State could be counted upon with almost equal certainty. Mr. Fischer,
a more potent influence than President Steyn, had by this time openly dissociated himself from
the "mediation" policy of the Cape nationalists, and was again (August 4th to 9th) at Pretoria.
Here he threw himself heart and soul into the work of completing the military preparations
of the two Republics. On the 6th he telegraphed to President Steyn that the draft reply was
prepared; that it "invited discussion and asked questions to gain time," and that, therefore,
it "was not yet necessary to deliberate as to calling together the Volksraad" for the final
decision of peace or war. "Military matters, especially artillery," he added, "seem to me very
faulty. Care will be taken to make all necessary preparations."[130] Nor did he leave the Transvaal
capital until he had settled the details of the invasion of Natal with General Joubert. Indeed,
from this time onwards to the despatch of the ultimatum--a document which came, in its final
form, from his pen--Mr. Fischer's part in the conduct of the negotiations was second only to
that of President Krüger. In all he did he displayed the same reasoned determination to oppose
British supremacy in South Africa which he has exhibited since the war in his control of the
Bloemfontein Friend. Orders for the inspection of the commando organisation in the Free State
had been given before Mr. Fischer had left Bloemfontein; and on his return from Pretoria he
responded to Mr. Schreiner's urgent and continued representations of the desirability of inducing
President Krüger to accept Mr. Chamberlain's offer, by a request to be informed of any probable
movements of British forces. Mr. Schreiner's reply, that the Free State must ask for such information
from the High Commissioner, caused him to apply to Mr. Hofmeyr for an explanation of the Cape
Premier's attitude. The inquiry produced a notable analysis of Mr. Schreiner's position.

         [Footnote 130: Secured by the Intelligence Department.]

     "Hofmeyr says," Dr. Te Water telegraphed, "that whatever the
     Premier's feelings or relations to our people are, he is at the
     same time a minister of the Crown. As such he has on him claims
     in two directions, of which he is acquitting himself to the best
     of his ability. He has no control over the movement of troops.
     You had better come and have a quiet talk. Meanwhile the Free
     State should surely refrain from an aggressive step."[131]

         [Footnote 131: Secured by the Intelligence Department.]

This well-meant advice was somewhat belated. In reply to a telegram from President Steyn, asking
whether it was true that the Imperial Government was going to send 1,000 men to Bethulie Bridge,
Lord Milner replied on August 16th, that, "as a matter of fact, no despatch of Imperial troops
to the borders of the Orange Free State was in contemplation." But he added that in view of
the much more substantial reports of the "importation of large quantities of munitions of war"
into that State and "the general arming of the burghers," it "would not have been unnatural,
if such military preparations had been responded to by a defensive movement" on the part of
the British Government.[132] Indeed, the circumstances which had led to Mr. Fischer's co-operation
in Mr. Hofmeyr's "mediation" were rapidly disappearing. The Port Elizabeth Mausers and ammunition
were safely through the Cape Colony; a further consignment of Mauser ammunition arrived at
Delagoa Bay (August 16th) in the German steamship Reichstag at the very time that these telegrams
were passing; and both this and other enormous consignments were forwarded to Pretoria a fortnight
later in spite of an abortive attempt on the part of the British Foreign Office to induce the
Portuguese authorities to retain them. The possession of an adequate supply of ammunition was
a matter of cardinal importance to which, as we have seen, President Steyn had drawn the attention
of the Pretoria Executive nearly a month before the Bloemfontein Conference. It was these Mauser
cartridges that were wanted especially, since, without them, the new arm--the splendid Mauser
magazine rifle--must have been rejected in place of the inferior Martini-Henry for which the
Boers had long been provided with an ample reserve of ammunition.

         [Footnote 132: C. 9,521.]

[Sidenote: Smuts-Greene negotiations.]

[Sidenote: Boer diplomacy.]

In the meantime the British Government was still waiting for a reply to its offer of a Joint
Inquiry. On August 7th the Volksraad discussed the question, and on the 12th a despatch was
written by Mr. Reitz refusing the offer on the ground that such a proposal was inconsistent
with the independence of the Republic. It was held back, however, until September 1st; that
is to say, until the Portuguese authorities had allowed the Transvaal ammunition to leave Lorenzo
Marques. Then, as we shall see, it was forwarded in conjunction with a second despatch of September
2nd. The delay was won by a characteristic display of "the art of gaining time," in which,
as Mr. Labouchere remarked, the Boers were past-masters. On the same day that Mr. Reitz wrote
his despatch (August 12th), Mr. Smuts approached Sir William Greene[133] with the offer of
a still further simplified seven years' franchise in lieu of the Joint Commission. When, however,
Sir William Greene assured him that the British Government would not accept anything less than
the Bloemfontein minimum, he subsequently agreed to an arrangement of which the main items
were: A five years' franchise; the workable character of the new law to be secured by the submission
of its provisions to the British Agent with a legal adviser; and increased representation in
the Volksraad, together with the use of the English language. After communications had passed
between Sir William Greene, Lord Milner, and Mr. Chamberlain, these proposals, with certain
reservations, were formally communicated to the British Government by Mr. Reitz on August 19th.
Two days later a second note was forwarded in which the offer contained in the previous note
(August 19th) was declared to be subject to the acceptance by the British Government of two
conditions. These conditions--an undertaking not to interfere in the internal affairs of the
Republic in the future and a specific withdrawal of the claim of suzerainty--amounted in effect
to a formal renunciation by Great Britain of its position as paramount Power in South Africa.
In other words, the Pretoria Executive had repudiated the arrangement made by Mr. Smuts with
Sir William Greene. Mr. Chamberlain, noticing the material variation between the original offer
as initialled by Mr. Smuts and forwarded by Sir William Greene, and Mr. Reitz's note of August
19th, instructed Sir William Greene to obtain an explanation of the discrepancy from the Transvaal
Government. The reply was a curt rejoinder that there was not "the slightest chance of an alteration
or an amplification" of the terms of the arrangement as set out in the note of the 19th.[134]
In these circumstances Mr. Chamberlain telegraphed a reply on August 28th, in which he accepted
the original offer, and rejected the impossible conditions subsequently attached to it.[135]
The terms of settlement thus proposed were in substance the same as those of the despatch of
July 27th, with the exception that an inquiry by the British Agent was substituted for the
Joint Commission, and the five years' franchise of the Smuts-Greene arrangement was accepted
in lieu of the seven years' franchise of the Volksraad law. The Transvaal reply was a further
essay in the same useful "art of gaining time." It was dated September 2nd, and contained a
definite withdrawal of the Smuts-Greene offer as embodied in the notes of August 19th and 21st,
and a vague return to the Joint Commission.

         [Footnote 133: Then Mr. Conyngham Greene. C. 9,521.]

         [Footnote 134: C. 9,521.]

         [Footnote 135: Ibid.]

     "Under certain conditions," wrote Mr. Reitz,[136] "this
     Government would be glad to learn from Her Majesty's Government
     how they propose that the Commission should be constituted, and
     what place and time for meeting is suggested."[137]

         [Footnote 136: The despatch was presented to the British
         Agent, and telegraphed, through the High Commissioner, to the
         Home Government. Its diplomatic ambiguity was due to Mr.
         Fischer's influence.]

         [Footnote 137: C. 9,521.]

And this with the consoling promise of a "further reply" to other questions arising out of
the despatch of July 27th, which the Transvaal Government had not yet been able to consider.

