LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PETER WILKINS., VOL. I.

BY ROBERT PALTOCK, OF CLEMENT'S INN.

WITH A PREFACE BY A. H. BULLEN, Editor Of "The Works Of John Day," "A Collection Of Old English
Plays," Etc.

1884.

PREFACE.

In one of those bright racy essays at which modern dulness delights to sneer, Hazlitt discussed
the question whether the desire of posthumous fame is a legitimate aspiration; and the conclusion
at which he arrived was that there is "something of egotism and even of pedantry in this sentiment."
It is a true saying in literature as in morality that "he that seeketh his life shall lose
it." The world cares most for those who have cared least for the world's applause. A nameless
minstrel of the North Country sings a ballad that shall stir men's hearts from age to age with
haunting melody; Southey, toiling at his epics, is excluded from Parnassus. Some there are
who have knocked at the door of the Temple of Fame, and have been admitted at once and for
ever. When Thucydides announced that he intended his history to be a "possession for all time,"
there was no mistaking the tone of authority. But to be enthroned in state, to receive the
homage of the admiring multitude, and then to be rejected as a pretender,--that is indeed a
sorry fate, and one that may well make us pause before envying literary despots their titles.
The more closely a writer shrouds himself from view, the more eager are his readers to get
a sight of him. The loss of an arm or a leg would be a slight price for a genuine student to
pay if only he could discover one new fact about Shakespeare's history. I will not attempt
to impose on the reader's credulity by professing myself eager to acquire information about
the author of "Peter Wilkins" at such a sacrifice; but it would have been a sincere pleasure
to me if I could have brought to light some particulars about one whose personality must have
possessed a more than ordinary charm. The delightful voyage imaginaire here presented to the
reader was first published in 1751.*

     * Some copies are said to be dated 1750. It appears on the
     list of new books announced in the "Gentleman's Magazine"
     for November 1750.

An edition appeared immediately afterwards at Dublin; so the book must have had some sale.
The introduction and the dedication to the Countess of Northumberland (to whom it will be remembered
Percy dedicated his "Reliques" and Goldsmith the first printed copy of his "Edwin and Angelina")
are signed with the initials "R. P.;" and for many years the author's full name was unknown.

     * It is now in the collection, shortly to be dispersed, of
     the late Mr. James Crossley of Manchester, a gentleman who
     was esteemed throughout his long life not less for unfailing
     courtesy than for rare scholarship. Mr. Crossley promised to
     search for the document and send me a transcript of it; but
     his kind intention was frustrated by his death. Paltock's
     name is sometimes written Pultock or Poltock. There is no
     ground for identifying the author of "Peter Wilkins" with
     the "R. P., Gent.," who published in 1751 "Memoirs of the
     Life of Parnese, a Spanish Lady, Translated from the Spanish
     MS."

From this document it appeared that the author was Robert Paltock of Clement's Inn, and that
he received for the copyright 20L., twelve copies of the book, and "the cuts of the first impression"(proof
impressions of the illustrations). The writer's name shows him to have been, like his hero,
of Cornish origin; but the authors of the admirable and exhaustive "Bibliotheca Cornubiensis"
could discover nothing about him beyond the fact that he was not a bencher of Clement's Inn.
That Paltock should have chosen Clement's Inn as a place of residence is not surprising. It
still keeps something of its pristine repose. The sun-dial is still supported by the negro;
the grass has not lost its verdure, and on August evenings the plane-trees' leaves glint golden
in the sun. One may still hear the chimes at midnight as Falstaff and Justice Shallow heard
them of old. Here, where only a muffled murmur comes from the work-a-day world, a man in the
last century might have dreamed away his life, lonely as Peter Wilkins on the island. One can
imagine the amiable recluse composing his homely romance amid such surroundings. Perhaps it
was the one labour of his life. He may have come to the Inn originally with the aspiration
of making fame and money; and then the spirit of cloistered calm turned him from such vulgar
paths, and instead of losing his fine feelings and swelling the ranks of the plutocrats, he
gave us a charming romance for our fireside. With the literary men of his day he seems to have
had no intercourse. Not a single mention of him is to be found among his contemporaries, and
we may be sure that he cut no brilliant figure at the club-houses. No chorus of reviewers chimed
the praises of "Peter Wilkins." So far as I can discover, the "Monthly Review" was the only
journal in which the book was noticed, and such criticism as the following can hardly be termed
laudatory:--"Here is a very strange performance indeed. It seems to be the illegitimate offspring
of no very natural conjunction, like 'Gulliver's Travels' and 'Robinson Crusoe;' but much inferior
to the manner of these two performances as to entertainment or utility. It has all that is
impossible in the one or impossible in the other, without the wit and spirit of the first,
or the just strokes of nature and useful lessons of morality in the second. However, if the
invention of wings for mankind to fly with is sufficient amends for all the dulness and unmeaning
extravagance of the author, we are willing to allow that his book has some merit, and that
he deserves some encouragement at least as an able mechanic, if not as a good author." But
the book was not forgotten. A new edition appeared in 1783, and again in the following year.
It was included in Weber's "Popular Romances," 1812, and published separately, with some charming
plates by Stothard, in 1816. Within the last fifty years it has been frequently issued, entire
or mutilated, in a popular form. A drama founded on the romance was acted at Covent Garden
on April 16, 1827; and more than once of late years "Peter Wilkins" has afforded material for
pantomimes. In 1763 a French translation (by Philippe Florent de Puisieux) appeared under the
title of "Les Hommes Volants, ou les Aventures de Pierre Wilkins," which was included in vols.
xxii.-xxiii. of DePerthe's "Voyages Imaginaires" ( 1788-89). A German translation was published
in 1767, having for title "Die fliegenden Menschen, oder wunderbare Begebenheiten Peter Wilkins."
Whether the author lived to see the translations of this work cannot be ascertained. A Robert
Paltock was buried at Ryme Intrinseca Church, Dorset, in 1767, aged seventy (Hutchin's "Dorset,"
iv. 493-494, third edition), but it is very doubtful whether he was the author of the romance.

Paltock's fame may be said to be firmly established. An American writer, it is true, in a recent
"History of Fiction," says not a word about "Peter Wilkins;" but, we must remember, another
American wrote a "History of Caricature" without mentioning Rowlandson. ("Table-Talk," 1851,
pp. 331-332). Southey, in a note on a passage of the "Curse of Kehama," went so far as to say
that Paltock's winged people "are the most beautiful creatures of imagination that ever were
devised," and added that Sir Walter Scott was a warm admirer of the book. With Charles Lamb
at Christ's Hospital the story was a favourite. "We had classics of our own," he says, "without
being beholden to 'insolent Greece or haughty Rome,' that passed current among us--'Peter Wilkins,'
the 'Adventures of the Hon. Captain Robert Boyle,' the 'Fortunate Blue-Coat Boy,' and the like."
But nobody loved the old romance with such devotion as Leigh Hunt. He was never tired of discoursing
about its beauties, and he wrote with such thorough appreciation of his subject that he left
little or nothing for another to add. "It is interesting," he writes in one place, "to fancy
R. P., or 'Mr. Robert Paltock of Clement's Inn,' a gentle lover of books, not successful enough,
perhaps, as a barrister to lead a public or profitable life, but eking out a little employment
or a bit of a patrimony with literature congenial to him, and looking oftener to 'Purchase
Pilgrims' on his shelves than to 'Coke on Littleton.' We picture him to ourselves with 'Robinson
Crusoe' on one side of him and 'Gaudentio di Lucca' on the other, hearing the pen go over his
paper in one of those quiet rooms in Clement's Inn that look out of its old-fashioned buildings
into the little garden with the dial in it held by the negro: one of the prettiest corners
in London, and extremely fit for a sequestered fancy that cannot get any further. There he
sits, the unknown, ingenious, and amiable Mr. Robert Paltock, thinking of an imaginary beauty
for want of a better, and creating her for the delight of posterity, though his contemporaries
were to know little or nothing of her. We shall never go through the place again without regarding
him as its crowning interest.... Now a sweeter creature [than Youwarkee] is not to be found
in books; and she does him immortal honour. She is all tenderness and vivacity; all born good
taste and blessed companionship. Her pleasure consists but in his; she prevents all his wishes;
has neither prudery nor immodesty; sheds not a tear but from right feeling; is the good of
his home and the grace of his fancy. It has been well observed that the author has not made
his flying women in general light and airy enough... And it may be said, on the other hand,
that the kind of wing, the graundee, or elastic drapery which opens and shuts at pleasure,
however ingeniously and even beautifully contrived, would necessitate creatures whose modifications
of humanity, bodily and mental, though never so good after their kind, might have startled
the inventor had he been more of a naturalist; might have developed a being very different
from the feminine, sympathising, and lovely Youwarkee. Muscles and nerves not human must have
been associated with inhuman wants and feelings; probably have necessitated talons and a beak!
At best the woman would have been wilder, more elvish, capricious, and unaccountable. She would
have ruffled her whalebones when angry; been horribly intimate, perhaps, with birds' nests
and fights with eagles; and frightened Wilkins out of his wits with dashing betwixt rocks and
pulling the noses of seals and gulls. ("Book for a Corner," 1868, i. 68, &c.) Could criticism
be more delightful? But in the "London Journal," November 5, 1834, the genial essayist's fancy
dallied even more daintily with the theme: "A peacock with his plumage displayed, full of 'rainbows
and starry eyes,' is a fine object, but think of a lovely woman set in front of an ethereal
shell and wafted about like a Venus.... We are to picture to ourselves a nymph in a vest of
the finest texture and most delicate carnation. On a sudden this drapery parts in two and flies
back, stretched from head to foot like an oval fan or an umbrella; and the lady is in front
of it, preparing to sweep blushing away from us and 'winnow the buxom air.'"

For many of us the conduct of life is becoming evermore a thing of greater perplexity. It is
wearisome to be rudely jostling one another for the world's prizes, while myriads are toiling
round us in an Egyptian bondage unlit by one ray of sunshine from the cradle to the grave.
Some have attained to Lucretian heights of philosophy, whence they look with indifference over
the tossing world-wide sea of human misery; but others are fain to avert their eyes, to clean
forget for a season the actual world and lose themselves in the mazes of romance. In moments
of despondency there is no greater relief to a fretted spirit than to turn to the "Odyssey"
or Mr. Payne's exquisite translation of the "Arabian Nights." Great should be our gratitude
to Mr. Morris for teaching us in golden verse that "Love is Enough," and for spreading wide
the gates of his "Earthly Paradise." Lucian's "True History," that carries us over unknown
seas beyond the Atlantic bounds to enchanted islands in the west, is one of those books which
we do not half appreciate. And among the world's benefactors Robert Paltock deserves a place.
An idle hour could not be spent in a much pleasanter way than in watching Peter Wilkins go
a-field with his gun or haul up the beast-fish at the lonely creek. What can be more delightful
than the description how, wakened from dreams of home by the noise of strange voices overhead,
he sees fallen at his door the lovely winged woman Youwarkee! Prudish people may be scandalised
at the unreserved frankness shown in the account of the consummation of Wilkins' marriage with
this fair creature; but the editor was unwilling to mutilate the book in the interests of such
refined readers. A man or a woman who can find anything to shock his or her feelings in the
description of Youwarkee's bridal night deserves the commiseration of sensible people. Very
charming is the picture of the children sitting round the fire on the long winter evenings
listening wide-eyed to the ever-fresh story of their father's marvellous adventures. The wholesome
morality, the charitableness and homely piety apparent throughout, give the narrative a charm
denied to many works of greater literary pretension. When Peter Wilkins leaves his solitary
home to live among the winged people, the interest of the story, it must be confessed, is somewhat
diminished. The author's obligations to Swift in the latter part of the book are considerable;
and of course in describing how Peter Wilkins ordered his life on the lonely island, he was
largely indebted to Defoe. But the creation of the winged beings is Paltock's own. It has been
suggested that he named his hero after John Wilkins, Bishop of Chester, who, among other curious
theories, had seriously discussed the question whether men could acquire the art of flying. Ventura
rose again and said with his usual nonchalance: - Bah, bah, better
hope that the doctor comes: You can not take ... If you will pass
message. - I've said no - said the young man frowning .-- Take the
scissors and cut around the bladder.

After the bandages put over the wound and concluded ... You see,
it's easy! Ventura did not respond.

Scissors
turned, leaned back and began to cut the skin. - Does it hurt? - None: goes on. But to be the head
when he discovered she could not repress a gesture of disgust. The
eyes of her husband, who spied on, they were troubled.

His forehead
creased strongly. - Look, leave it, leave ... Wait till the doctor
- said grabbing her wrist and her away gently but firmly.

Ventura looked surprised. - Why? - Nothing.

Let him, let him - said, buttoning his shirt back and covering the
clothing.

Venturita stood with scissors in hand, staring at him in confused attitude. He had the same deep wrinkles
on the forehead and staring at the ceiling. - But why? ... What has
given you, boy?

... - Nothing, nothing. Let me go to rest. The girl stood still a moment looking at him. Flaming
suddenly, angrily threw down the scissors and said with haughty and
dismissive tone that he knew so well to his words when he wanted -
I'm glad.

The show was not very pleasant, especially just before eating.

Al while directing his steps turned toward the door.

Gonzalo said with a sarcastic smile - And I'm glad I gave that joy.

Then, when he was alone, her eyes sparkled with anger and his lips
quivered.

She clutched the blanket with his hands convulsively, and launched
a brutal series of interjections, indulging in one of those brief
and terrible anger of men blood.

Before it was turned off completely, he heard the door softly playing.
figured it was his wife, shouted angrily: - Who goes there?

The person
who had called , clearly shaken by that voice, took a moment to answer.
- I, Gonzalo - said after a weak voice. - Ah! dispensation, Cecilia.

Sign - said the young man suddenly softening.

His sister opened the door and entered, and then carefully closed.
- I came to know how you were, and also to tell you if you want the
lemonade and have done. - I'm better, thanks.

If I well, I think tomorrow or pull all get up. - Do you have cured the blister beetle? - Ventura
got it now, but has not finished - said, turning to a frown. - Yes, just get him in the hallway and told
me that you're bothered because I figured that it was with disgust
- said Cecilia, smiling kindly. - not that! not it!

"- said the young man in tone of impatience and not a little embarrassed.
- You forgive, because you're not used to these things.

It's a girl ... In addition, the state that is perhaps influence
your stomach. - Not that, Cecilia! - She cried the young man more
impatiently, raising his head slightly from the pillows would be very
foolish .-- and very selfish if it would bother for something that
is not after all in its power to avoid. is a matter of temperament,
and I am accustomed to respect, much more the case of my wife, who
is in an exceptional state ... But there's more.

What I just spent rains, it pours.

Ten
days ago that I'm in bed, and has not entered this room more than
two or three times a day and almost always call for me ... Would you
think that's what a woman should be married?

... Had it not been for you and mom ... especially for you ... power
would be abandoned as an inn servants. - Oh, no, Gonzalo! - Yes, yes,
Cecilia - energy and heatedly replied .-- Abandoned.

My wife does not appear here, but when visiting. .. So, yes, is made an arm of
the sea, smelling essences and red devils ... But bring my teas, write
down the doctor's prescriptions, pet me a little talking or reading
me something ... Of that, nothing!

... Now I beg the blister heals, and as I say, completely changes
its appearance ... Start looking for outlets for escape.

Only when I insist hard, you decide ... But so reluctantly! with
a face so straight, I was tempted to throw it all the gizmos.

It would not shred of dignity or even ashamed, if he had consented
to follow ... He had been extolling increasingly, to the point of
joining the all in bed.

Cecilia, standing in the middle of the room, listened to him restless
and confused, unsure what to say.

I wanted to defend his sister, but
was not quite powerful arguments to counter those of his brother.
- Gonzalo - he said at last, his voice firm and calm countenance,
approaching the bed, - the disappointment that you have just had exalted
a little, and do not see things as they really are ... Ventura may
have neglected a bit in the fulfillment of his duties, but be sure
it was not for lack of will.

I know her well.

I know his character does not lend itself to engage in such detail
and care that a patient needs.

There used to nurse.

Furthermore, they are now in a state to be dispensed many things ... - But if so at all, Cecilia!
If so, at all! - Said the young man so vividly as bad humor .-- If
a child is not into channel!

The affairs of the house will not care.

For her,
the only important thing in the world is herself, her beauty, their
dress, their jewelry ... Everything else, parents, siblings, husband,
do not mean anything ... I'm sure he has the hat more concerned that
Paris has commissioned my illness ... - Oh, do not say that, by God!'re
Crazy. - I'm not crazy.

I say the truth ... And with a quick word, vibrant, often stumbling
by irritation that was possessed, neatly presented their complaints,
taking pleasure in making punctures bleed again he had received in
their marriage.

Ventura had a diametrically opposed character. It was not possible to
be good to her over an hour. Because if it lasted much compromise,
and there is reason to quarrel, she was in charge of searching, tired,
no doubt, be in peace with her husband.

If he made one thing anyone provide enjoyment, instead of thanking,
paid him a trick or usually with sarcasm.

Everything seemed little. Was the greatest sacrifices of children.

There was
no chance of making it think only of their clothes, their perfumes,
their ribbons.

What a life he had lead in Madrid three months there had been! Not
out of the shops in silks, jewelry, home of the dressmaker.

At night, without fail to the theater. Although
he was tired or crack his head in pain, nothing, it was necessary
to exhibit at some stage of the Real, the Prince or the Zarzuela. The
money had been spent there, added an impressive amount.

I thought I had taken enough, and three times had to demand more
from your home. Then, realizing that since that train with his income would
not have enough, especially if God gave him many children, had tried
to set up a brewery, to take advantage of even the studies he had
done.

Ventura had strongly opposed this, saying that he wanted to be "the
mistress of a beer ..."

I was convinced that the blood had burned in Madrid, and was still burning
in Sarrió, was what had caused this sudden attack of erysipelas.
Sure! He needed a life of activity and work, leaving much to the field,
hunting, horseback riding. His nature demanded eventful year. That sedentary
life he liked to Ventura, that eternal drama, those visits, one stay
up late without substance, killing him, the blood was put thick as
oil ... But what mattered to her all that!

Main thing was to satisfy their taste in everything and for everything
... In Madrid he had learned to paint, a lot, because he was white
as milk!

... For
though he had said repeatedly that he hated that disgusting hobby,
it was not possible to make him the case.

While thus unburdened by intermittent flow of words, the face of Gonzalo was successively expressing
outrage, sadness, anger, contempt, all the emotions that stirred
his soul to the memory of their sufferings. His great athlete's torso,
moved convulsively on the bed, sitting a few times, dropping others, while
shaking hands and clenched instinctively dealing pull the clothes, that
their sudden shock impulse was leaving.

Cecilia, head down and falls and cross hands, listened to him hoping
that after releasing the burden of their sorrows, the anger of the young
to be postponed.

And so it was. After he had no more words in the body, covering the
sheet up eyes let out an endless series of intermixed snorting incoherently.

Cecilia began to say very soft voice - I do not know what to tell you all that, Gonzalo. Getting into
the rifts that may exist in a marriage is very dangerous. If anyone
to interfere in your affairs is not mine, but Mom ... But I've always
heard that in every marriage there are quarrels and disgustillos,
especially at first, while the characters do not conform ... All of
this happens.

They are summer clouds. While not affecting the merits, while the hearts
are not disjoint, the marital quarrels have very little importance
... And there's no fear of that, fortunately ... You want to Ventura
... - Oh, every day! - He cried, angrily himself .-- I'm in love like
a donkey ... yes, yes, like a donkey!

A shadow of mortal
pain, fast as lightning, passed through the clear eyes of Cecilia.
But look again at once serene and bright as ever. - She loves you,
no doubt. His genius is alive, perhaps a little whimsical, for what it
has always been the loving care of the house. But it is unable to hold
a grudge for an offense, or ever work with premeditation, but pushed
by the impressions of the moment ... In addition, Gonzalo - he added,
smiling, - he now considers you a lot more attention, much more love,
if possible ... The girl, soaked with delicate phrases of tenderness,
she spoke of her unborn child, a nail to remacharía so unbreakable
union of their souls.

That child for which everyone was already working at home, with his smile innocent dissipate the
little clouds that shadowed for a moment the love of her parents. After the world was well Ventura
would remember rouge!

Go, go! it would have little to do to keep him clean, and entertain you breastfeed when you cry.
And he would be so enthralled watching him, would not have time to
engage in if his wife brought this or that dress, even if it was good
or bad humor.

Cecilia's voice, soft, persuasive, a little tarnished forever, which
gave his unique accent tenderness and humility that touched the heart,
soon succeeded in moving his brother.

Apaciguóse sudden. Dilated his face for a smile, exclaimed prior to the end: - Girl, what a lawyer
would! - is that I have reason - she replied, laughing. - And if you do not fix it and you had to appear
with her ... Ea, is over!

... To
me I tantrums are short ... And above all, as you start talking,
I lose strength.

No speaker you to accumulate even in the arguments that point to
suit you and to know to get the Christ ... I mean the kid ... Cecilia
laughed. - acknowledge that it has been with opportunity. - I do not
deny.

They laughed with joy, teasing affectionately cradled in sweet fellowship
that made them happy.

Cecilia finally retired.

Before reaching the door he turned, shyly asking where I live and pointed a barely concealed desire:
- Do you want me to do the cure? ... You have to be annoying ... The young man hesitated. Feared offending
the modesty of his sister-in. - If you want ... No need ... Maybe
cause you disgust ... But Cecilia had already approached the bed
and picked the lint, the ointment and scissors, putting everything
in order.

He made a new tablet, and carefully spread the ointment on it.

Gonzalo watched, a little uneasy. She was silent, making heroic efforts to overcome the confusion that
took hold of his soul. He was sorry for his proposal. Let time pass infinitely often passing the knife
on the lint, with downcast eyes, feigning great attention to the task at hand. At last, making
a supreme effort, took the tablet, and raising his head to his brother,
he said, with affected indifference - Anytime.

Gonzalo, with unsteady hand, dropped the clothes. He sat up in bed,
and slowly began to unbutton embarrassing shirt.

At last he discovered his big muscular chest. - Good to box before you eat! - Cried shame, repeating
the view expressed by his wife. Cecilia did not reply. He began to examine the wound, half covered
by skin that Ventura had not finished cut. He took scissors and cut it with a firm hand was missing.
- I hurt you? - Asked. - None. Discovered the wound entirely, as big as the palm of the hand,
applied gently on her tablet lint , passed his hand repeatedly to
tighten up, put a cloth on the lint, and while pressing it with your
left hand, took it with a band right there on the table, and applied
by the top half of the rag. - you must now band passes behind the
back to tie it after over here. - Do not you dare you?

"- he said with a smile between mocking and ashamed. She did not
answer.

I wanted to seriously dominate force that seized the confusion. Only one could see his excitement
at the slightest tremor of her lips. Eyes half closed, looked behind her long lashes with deep
joy that serious indifferent expression of his countenance could
not hide.

Gonzalo tried to cross behind the band, but it was impossible. Cecilia
came to the rescue resolutely put his hand under his shirt.

When you feel the warm touch of the flesh of the child, the hand trembled slightly, but did not
stop to firmly task. - Good chest, eh? - He said with affected nonchalance to hide the pregnancy
that dominated both . Nor said Cecilia. - Do not think that is all natural. These arms and this
breast did to me rowing on the Thames. - Rowing? - Yes, rowing.

There the richest young men did not disdain to wear the sailor's blouse
or shirt. On the contrary, is most fashionable, as they say. We will have
made many trips up the river! Then every so often there are races.
As people go to the bullfights in Madrid, cross big bets ... It is
a delightful break!

Such enthusiasm among us for many days before! ... He was moved to the memory of those happy hours of
health and strength, when neither love nor any care home still troubled
rich student life and disapply. And watching Cecilia was paying attention,
extended in childish trifles, bringing to remember the minutest details
of such an existence consecrated to the gym.

He reported that he had won races, which had lost and all incidents that they had arisen. Had
their impressions before and after the event, the kind of food that used to acquire force and
lose fat, describing the clothes they wore, how the boats, the shouts of the crowd encouraged them
from the shore ... - "There would be there who had more strength
than you - she said eating it with my eyes. - Oh, yes, it was not the
weakest, but still had some more power - he said modestly. He had
disappeared the shortness of both.

Tornada fraternity that sweet before. Gonzalo lay on the bed with his arms out. As soon as he
saw out of him, and with encouragement, he went to Tejada.

It was necessary to change their lives, to prevent further attacks.

Hunt was thinking earnestly. Ride is also a gym in the right place in the house. In short,
it promised to be another man so completely heal. Cecilia applauded that decision, promised to go
with him sometimes.

He enjoyed much more than Sarrió Tejada.

He was born to peasant. He laughed at those purposes. - You do not know what is going hunting in this country.
Let's see if I am pointed to bring in arms like Ventura. - Do not worry, I'm stronger than I look.
At last the young man tried to leave. Gonzalo asked timidly: - "I read
today a little? Cecilia had not thought of anything for some time.

But as I had heard the boy complain bitterly that his wife did not
do so, afraid to leave in a worse place, offering to perform this
task. - What do you want me to read? - With so that not one of those
novels terrifying who loves my wife, whatever. - Well, I will read
the Christian Year. - Not so much! - he said, laughing.

Cecilia library took a volume of verse, and began to read sitting near the foot of the bed. Gonzalo
quarter hour slept deliciously, with the reassurance of a child.

The girl
stopped reading to watch him and watched him carefully, rather, he
ran his eyes very long time.

After he thought he felt the sound of footsteps in the hall, and
getting red in the idea that they could surprise in that attitude,
rose strongly in the chair and left the room on tiptoe.

Gonzalo, as he was recovering , wanted to move to Tejada.

He was
accompanied by the entire family, except Don Rosendo.

In the month of October. Amid the yellow robe of neighboring fields, the possession of Don Rosendo, full
of conifers, stood out like black spot, nothing pleasing to the eye. The young man immediately
implemented its program of hygienic living. Rose up early, took the rifle, called
the dogs and we threw across the fields, arriving most days at night,
exhausted, with some partridge in the bag and a hungry cannibal.

When the tours were shorter, Cecilia was with him, as
he had promised. Although on this occasion they killed a few partridges, Gonzalo
wanted his company as a pleasant and friendly companion.

She never confessed tired, but he, perceiving in his unsteady gait,
was high, forcing her to sit, and became the distracted talking, to
make it last longer rest.

But she struggled between the joy of these raids and the commitment it had made with his sister
make the basket for the child. When it came time to think of it, fifth or sixth month of being
on tape, Ventura decided to order it to Madrid, but Cecilia had said:
- If you bring me the models I make you answer for the same. Venturita
had resisted a bit, but to see the effort she put her sister, consented.

Cecilia so eagerly undertook the work, he needed time to eat and sleep.
Sometimes, when his brother urged him to leave, he replied: - Look, let me
work today. Three days ago they just sew anything.

And when he insisted making fun of those jobs, she was resigned,
saying: - Well, the worst thing for you.

To see how you're going to dress your child when born. - Do not worry,
girl - he replied, laughing .-- I have enough shirts for him and for
me ... Especially if you like neck down!

... After
a month, the action of air and sun had made much darker Cecilia.

It looked like a boy, a sailor from the dock, in the words of Gonzalo.

Meanwhile,
Ventura made his wayward life of Sultana, who now had more reason
to be. Just out of the house. The exquisite care of his person, he occupied
a long time. The rest, they used to read serial novels.

Each day was more beautiful. That ardent worship of her body, contributed not a little to enhance
and increase their thanks.

As an artist plays and constantly retouching their work, but never
quite seems finished, so the young wife took care of her hair, her
complexion, her teeth, her hands, never tiring.

The couple had embellished kind giving the fullness of the female
form, making her beautiful golden and splendid spring in summer.

The same maternity, without removing or defacing cool your body,
it lent a soft, protective majesty.

Then the sovereign pleasure, art, or rather, with which she adjusted the color and shape of the
dress to the tone of her flesh and the changes that are operating
in nature, gave prominence to this exquisite and lovely picture.

That yes, all the house revolved around it.

As a goddess worshiped and feared, his spirit moved all human figures
sheltering towers puppets.

Even Dona Paula, who had
made his face in the first months of marriage, had slipped back into
his slavery.

She did not abuse that domain.

He let all your taste fulfilled, except when going directly or indirectly
against hers.

For example, no one knew when to Sarrió would make, but it.

The
cook the food did not settle without consulting her. The driver went
up to ask every day if I wanted to go for a walk.

The gardener did not move a pot without asking the permission.

On the other hand did not care less or more than her husband come out. Once saw him ready to go out
with Cecilia, he said, smiling in the presence of these and others: - Great friends you are going
by you and Cecilia. Behold, I will celarme. And the time to say, fixed
him with a of those looks sovereign expressed deep conviction of
their domain.

Gonzalo, much to stay away, could not break the chain, again soft and
submissive to their feet as the comet which giddy sailing the spaces
and an immeasurable distance from the sun feel the brake and he becomes
docile towards his forehead.

Gonzalo
paid the look with another absolute performance.

Cecilia had been slightly pale and smiling to hide his embarrassment. - Come on, gone, gone! Do
not want to see ahead - added .-- If you are hitting me, too bad
for you, because I will take revenge sounded.

The joke was not delicate, bearing in mind what had mediated between Cecilia Gonzalo. But it
was not repaired woman Venturita much to let go.

In early December moved to Sarrio. One month after Ventura gave birth to a beautiful girl, white and
blonde like her.

Gonzalo was so in love with his wife, who received it with joy, yes,
but not with the joy and eagerness with which men tend to welcome
their first child.

What particularly interested him was the health of his wife, that
incident did not occur.

Everything became enter and leave the room, taking the pulse and grind Don Rufo questions. In
this view, Ventura was raising her daughter without inconvenience. It was a sturdy girl, well
conformed. Only when children do very guzzlers, freshness and beauty of the mother tends to
fade a little. Before this event, she was filled with fear and opposed
first clogging, then in no uncertain terms, to breastfeed the child.

Gonzalo was convinced then and even found that a reasonable objection. Instead Dona Paula greatly
angered, but only expressed his displeasure at the back of Ventura.

Cecilia was so caring, so vigilant in caring for the child, which
soon took her completely.

 He soon
grew very fond of me, hoping, as I had reason afterwards to believe, by a union with my mother
to set himself free from his entanglements. She was then about thirty-five years old, and still
continued my father's widow, out of particular regard to me, as I have all the reason in the
world to believe. She was really a beautiful woman, and of a sanguine complexion, but-had always
carried herself with so much reserve, and given so little encouragement to any of the other
sex, that she had passed her widowhood with very few solicitations to alter her way of life.
This gentleman observing my mother's conduct, in order to ingratiate himself with her, had
shown numberless instances of regard for me; and, as he told my mother, had observed many things
in my discourse, actions, and turn of mind, that presaged wonderful expectations from me, if
my genius was but properly cultivated.

This discourse, from a man of very good parts, and esteemed by everybody an accomplished gentleman,
by degrees wrought upon my mother, and more and more inflamed her with a desire of adding what
lustre she could to my applauded abilities, and influenced her so far as to ask his advice
in what manner most properly to proceed with me. My gentleman then had his desire, for he feared
not the widow, could he but properly dispose of her charge; so having desired a little time
to consider of a matter of such importance, he soon after told her he thought the most useful
method of establishing me would be at an academy, kept by a very worthy and judicious gentleman,
about thirty, or more, miles from us, in Somersetshire; where, if I could but be admitted,
the master taking in but a stated number of students at a time, he did not in the least doubt
but I should fully answer the character he had given her of me, and outshine most of my contemporaries.

My mother, over-anxious for my good, seeming to listen to this proposal, my friend (as I call
him) proposed taking a journey himself to the academy, to see if any place was vacant for my
reception, and learn the terms of my admission; and in three days' time returned with an engaging
account of the place, the master, the regularity of the scholars, of an apartment secured for
my reception, and, in short, whatever else might captivate my mother's opinion in favour of
his scheme; and indeed, though he acted principally from another motive, as was plain afterwards,
I cannot help thinking he believed it to be the best way of disposing of a lad sixteen years
old, born to a pretty fortune, and who, at that age, could but just read a chapter in the Testament;
for he had before beat my mother quite out of her inclination to a grammar-school in the neighbourhood,
from a contempt, he said, it would bring upon me from lads much my juniors in years, by being
placed in the first rudiments of learning with them.

Well, the whole concern of my mother's little family was now employed in fitting me out for
my expedition; and as my friend had been so instrumental in bringing it about, he never missed
a day inquiring how preparations went on; and during the process, by humouring me, ingratiated
himself more and more with my mother, but without seeming in the least to aim at it. In short,
the hour of my departure arrived; and though I had never been master of above a sixpence at
one time, unless at a fair or so, for immediate spending, my mother, thinking to make my heart
easy at our separation (which, had it appeared otherwise, would have broke hers, and spoiled
all), gave me a double pistole in gold, and a little silver in my pocket to prevent my changing it.

Thus I (the coach waiting for us at the door), having been preached into a good liking of the
scheme by my friend, who now insisted upon making one of our company to introduce us, mounted
the carriage with more alacrity than could be expected for one who had never before been beyond
the smoke of his mother's chimney; but the thoughts I had conceived, from my friend's discourse,
of liberty in the academic way, and the weight of so much money in my pocket, as I then imagined
would scarce ever be exhausted, were prevailing cordials to keep my spirits on the wing. We
lay at an inn that night, near the master's house, and the next day I was initiated; and, at
parting with me, my friend presented me with a guinea. When I found myself thus rich, I must
say I heartily wished they were all fairly at home again, that I might have time to count my
cash, and dispose of such part of it as I had already appropriated to several uses then in embryo.

The next morning left me master of my wishes, for my mother came and took her last (though
she little thought it) leave of me, and smothering me with her caresses and prayers for my
well-doing, in the height of her ardour put into my hand another guinea, promising to see me
again quickly; and desiring me, in the meantime, to be a very good husband, which I have since
taken to be a sort of prophetic speech, she bid me farewell.

I shall not trouble you with the reception I met from my master, or his scholars, or tell you
how soon I made friends of all my companions, by some trifling largesses which my stock enabled
me to bestow as occasion required; but I must inform you that, after sixteen years of idleness
at home, I had but little heart to my nouns and pronouns, which now began to be crammed upon
me; and being the eldest lad in the house, I sometimes regretted the loss of the time past,
and at other times despaired of ever making a scholar at my years; and was ashamed to stand
like a great lubber, declining of hæc mulier a woman, whilst my schoolfellows, and juniors
by five years, were engaged in the love stories of Ovid, or the luscious songs of Horace. I
own these thoughts almost overcame me, and threw me into a deep melancholy, of which I soon
after, by letter, informed my mother; who (by the advice, as I suppose, of my friend, by this
time her suitor) sent me word to mind my studies, and I should want for nothing. Indeed I never
had a thought of love before, but the good-natured girl seeming to pity me, and seriously asking
me the cause, I fairly opened my heart to her; and for fear my master should know it, gave
her half-a-crown to be silent. This last engagement fixed her my devotee, and from that time
we had frequent conferences in confidence together, till at length inclination, framed by opportunity,
produced the date of a world of concern to me; for about six months after my arrival at the
academy, instead of proving my parts by my scholarship, I had proved my manhood by being the
destined father of an infant which my female correspondent then assured me would soon be my own.

We nevertheless held on our frequent intercourse; nor was I so alarmed at the news as I ought
to have been, till about two months after, when Patty (for that was the only name I then knew
her by) explained herself to me in the following terms:--"You know, Mr. Peter, how matters
are with me: I should be very sorry, for your sake, and my own too, to reveal my shame, but
in spite of us both nature will show itself; and truly I think some care should be taken, and
some method proposed, to preserve the infant, and avoid, as far as may be, the inconveniences
that may attend us, for here is now no room for delay." This speech, I own, gave me the first
reflection I ever had in my life, and locked up all my faculties for a long time; nor was I
able, for the variety of ideas that crowded my brain, to make a word of answer, but stood like
an image of stone, till Patty, seeing my confusion, desired me to recollect my reason; for
as it was too late to undo what had been done, it remained now only to act with that prudence
and caution which the nature of the case required; and that, for her part, she would concur
in every reasonable measure I should approve of; but I must remember she was only a servant,
and had very little due to her for wages, and not a penny besides that; and that there must
necessarily be a preparation made for the reception of the infant when time should produce
it. I now began to see the absolute necessity of all she said, but how to accomplish it was
not in me to comprehend. My own small matter of money was gone, and had been so a long time;
we therefore agreed I should write to my mother for a fresh supply. I did so; and to my great
confusion was answered by my former friend in the following words:--

     "Son Peter,--Your mother and I are much surprised you should
     write for money, having so amply provided for you; but as it
     is not many months to Christmas, when possibly we may send
     for you home, you must make yourself easy till then; as a
     school-boy, with all necessaries found him, cannot have much
     occasion for money.--Your loving father,
     J. G."

Imagine, if it is possible, my consternation at the receipt of this letter. I began to think
I should be tricked out of what my father and grandfather had with so much pains and industry
for many years been, heaping up for me, and had a thousand thoughts all together jostling out
each other, so could resolve on nothing. I then showed Patty the letter, and we both condoled
my hard fortune, but saw no remedy. Time wore away, and nothing done, or like to be, as I could
see. For my part, I was like one distracted, and no more able to assist or counsel what should
be done than a child in arms. At length poor Patty, who had sat thinking some time, began with
telling me she had formed a scheme which in some measure might help us; but fearing it might
be disagreeable to me, she durst not mention it till I should assure her, whatever I thought
of that, I would think no worse of her for proposing it. This preparatory introduction startled
me a great deal; for it darted into my head she waited for my concurrence to destroy the child,
to which I could never have consented. But upon my assuring her I would not think the worse
of her for whatever she should propose, but freely give her my opinion upon it, she told me,
as she could see no other way before us but what tended to our disgrace and ruin, if I would
marry her she would immediately quit her place and return to her aunt, who had brought her
up from a child, and had enough prettily to live upon, who, she did not doubt, would entertain
her as my wife; but she was assured, upon any other score, or under any other name, would prove
her most inveterate enemy. When Patty had made an end, I was glad to find it no worse; and
revolving matters a little in my mind, both as to affairs at home and the requested marriage,
I concluded upon this latter, and had a great inclination to acquaint my mother of it, but
was diverted from that, by suspecting it might prove a good handle for my new father to work
with my mother some mischief against me; so determined to marry forthwith, send Patty to her
aunt's, and remain still at the academy myself till I should see what turn things would take
at home. Accordingly, the next day good part of Patty's wages went to tie the connubial knot,
and to the honest parson for a bribe to antedate the certificate; and she very soon after took
up the rest to defray her journey to her aunt's.

Though Patty was within two months of her time, she had so managed that no one perceived it;
and getting safe to her aunt's, was delivered of a daughter, of which she wrote me word, and
said she hoped to see me at the end of her month. How, thought I, can she expect to see me;
money I have none! and then I despaired of leave for a journey if I had it; and to go without
leave would only arm J. G. against me, as I perceived plainly his interest and mine were very
remote things; so I resolved to quit all thoughts of a journey, and wait till opportunity better
served for seeing my wife and child, and our good aunt to whom we were so much obliged. While
these and such-like cogitations engrossed my whole attention, I was most pleasingly surprised
one day, upon my return-from a musing walk by the river-side at the end of our garden, where
I frequently got my tasks, to find Patty sitting in the kitchen with my old mistress, my master's
mother, who managed his house, he having been a widower many years. The sight of her almost
overcame me, as I had bolted into the kitchen, and was seen by my old mistress before I had
seen Patty was with her. The old lady, perceiving me discomposed, inquired into the cause,
which I directly imputed to the symptoms of an ague that I told her I had felt upon me best
part of the morning. She, a good motherly woman, feeling my pulse, and satisfying herself of
its disorder, immediately ran to her closet to bring me a cordial, which she assured me had
done wonders in the like cases; so that I had but just time to embrace Patty and inquire after
our aunt and daughter before madam returned with the cordial. Having drank it, and given thanks,
I was going to withdraw, but she would not part with me so; for nothing less than my knowledge
that this cordial was of her own making, from whence she had the receipt, and an exact catalogue
of the several cures it had done, would serve her turn; which, taking up full three-quarters
of an hour, gave room to Patty and me to enjoy each other's glances for that time, to our mutual
satisfaction. At last the old prattlebox having made a short pause to recover breath from the
narrative of the cordial, "Mr. Peter," says she, "you look as if you did not know poor Patty;
she has not left me so long that you should forget her; she is a good tight wench, and I was
sorry to part with her; but she is out of place, she says, and as that dirty creature Nan is
gone, I think to take her again." I told her I well knew she was judge of a good servant, and
I did not doubt Patty was such, if she thought so; and then I made my exit, lighter in heart
by a pound than I came.

I shall not tire you any farther with the amours between self and Patty; but to let you know
she quitted her place again seven months after, upon the same score.

I was now near nineteen years of age; and though I had so much more in my head than my school-learning,
I know not how it happened, but ever since the commencement of my amour with Patty, having
somebody to disburden my mind to, and to participate in my concerns, I had been much easier,
and had kept true tally with my book, with more than usual delight; and being arrived to an
age to comprehend what I heard and read, I could, from the general idea I had of things, form
a pretty regular piece of Latin, without being able to repeat the very rules it was done by;
so that I had the acknowledgment of my master for the best capacity he ever had under his tuition:
this, he not sparing frequently to mention it before me, was the acutest spur he could have
applied to my industry; and now, having his good will, I began to disuse set hours of exercise,
but at my conveniency applied myself to my studies as I best pleased, being always sure to
perform as much, or more, than he ever enjoined me; till I grew exceedingly in his confidence,
and by reason of my age (though I was but small, yet manly) I became rather his companion upon
parties than his direct pupil.

It was upon one of these parties I took the opportunity to declare the dissatisfaction I had
at my mother's second marriage. "Sir," says I, "surely I was of age to have known it first,
especially considering the affection my mother had always shown to me, and my never once having
done the least thing to disoblige her; but, sir," said I, "something else, I fear, is intended
by my mother's silence to me; for I have never received above three letters from her since
I came here, which is now, you know, three years, and those were within the first three months.
I then showed him the fore-mentioned letter I received from my new father-in-law, and assured
him that gave me the first hint of this second marriage."

I found, by the attention my master gave to my relation, he seemed to suspect this marriage
would prove detrimental to me; but not on the sudden knowing what to say to it, he told me
he would consider of it; and, by all means, advised me to write a very obliging letter to my
new father, with my humble request that he would please to order me home the next recess of
our learning. I did so under my master's dictation; and not long after received an answer to
the following effect:--

"Son Peter,--Your mother has been dead a good while; and as to your request, it will be only
expensive, and of little use; for a person who must live by his studies can't apply to them
too closely."

This letter, if I had a little hope left, quite subdued my fortitude, and well-nigh reduced
me to clay. However, with tears in my eyes, I showed it to my master, who, good man! wishing
me well, "Peter," says he, "what can this mean? here is some mystery concealed in it; here
is some ill design on foot!" Then taking the letter into his hand, "A person who must live
by his studies," says he; "here is more meant than we can think for. Why, have not you a pretty
estate to live upon, when it comes to your hands? Peter," says he, "I would advise you to go
to your father and inquire how your affairs are left; but I am afraid to let you go alone,
and will, when my students depart at Christmas, accompany you myself with all my heart; for
you must know I have advised on your affair already, and find you are of age to choose yourself
a guardian, who may be any relation or friend you can confide in; and may see you have justice
done you." I immediately thanked him for the hint, and begged him to accept of the trust, as
my only friend, having very few, if any, near relations: this he with great readiness complied
with, and was admitted accordingly.

So soon as our scholars were gone home, my master lending me a horse, we set out together to
possess ourselves of all my father's real estate, and such part of the personal as he had been
advised would belong to me. Well, we arrived at the old house, but were not received with such
extraordinary tokens of friendship as would give the least room to suppose we were welcome.
For my part, all I said, or could say, was that I was very sorry for my mother's death. My
father replied so was he. Here we paused, and might have sat silent till this time for me,
if my master, a grave man, who had seen the world, and was unwilling any part of our time there,
which we guessed would be short, should be lost, had not broke silence. "Mr. G." says he, "I
see the loss of Master Wilkins's mother puts him under some confusion; so that you will excuse
me, as his preceptor and friend, in making some inquiry how his affairs stand, and how his
effects are disposed, as I don't doubt you have taken care to schedule everything that will
be coming to him; and though he is not yet of the necessary age for taking upon himself the
management of his estate, he is nevertheless of capacity to understand the nature and quantum
of it, and to show his approbation of the disposition of it, as if he was a year or two older."
During this discourse, Mr. G. turned pale, then reddened, was going to interrupt, then checked
himself; but however kept silence till my master had done; when, with a sneer, he replied,
"Sir, I must own myself a great stranger to your discourse; nor can I, for my life, imagine
what your harangue tends to; but sure I am, I know of no estate, real or personal, or anything
else belonging to young Mr. Wilkins, to make a schedule of, as you call it: but this I know,
his mother had an estate in land, near two hundred a year, and also a good sum of money when
I married her; but the estate she settled on me before her marriage, to dispose of after her
decease as I saw fit; and her money and goods are all come to my sole use, as her husband."
I was just ready to drop while Mr. G. gave this relation, and was not able to reply a word;
but my master, though sufficiently shocked at what he had heard, replied, "Sir, I am informed
the estate, and also the money you mention, was Mr. Wilkins's father's at his death; and I
am surprised to think any one should have a better title to them than my pupil, his only child."--"Sir,"
says Mr. G., "you are deceived; and though what you say seems plausible enough, and is in some
part true, as that the late Mr. Wilkins had such estate, and some hundreds--I may say thousands--at
his death; yet you seem ignorant that he made a deed, just before entering into the fatal rebellion,
by which he gave my late wife both the estate, money, and everything else he had, absolutely,
without any conditions whatsoever; all which, on his unhappy execution, she enjoyed, and now
of right, as I told you before, belongs to me. However, as I have no child, if Peter behaves
well under your direction, I have thoughts of paying another year's board for him, and then
he must shift for himself."--"Oh!" cried I, "for the mercy of some savage beast to devour me!
Is this what I have been cockered up for? Why was I not placed out to some laborious craft,
where I might have drudged for bread in my proper station? But I fear it is too late to inquire
into what is past, and must submit."

My master, good man! was thunderstruck at what he had heard; and finding our business done
there, we took our leaves; after Mr. G. had again repeated, that if I behaved well, my preceptor
should keep me another year, which was all I must expect from him; and at my departure he gave
me a crown-piece, which I then durst not refuse, for fear of offending my master.

We made the best of our way home again to my tutor's, where I stayed but a week to consider
what I should do for myself. In this time he did all he could to comfort me; telling me if
I would stay with him and become his usher, he would complete my learning for nothing, and
allow me a salary for my trouble. But my heart was too lofty to think of becoming an usher
within so little way from mine own estate in other hands. However, since I had not a penny
of money to endeavour at recovering my right with, I told my master I would consider of his
proposal.

During my stay with him he used all methods to make me as easy as possible; and frequently
moralised with so much effect, that I was almost convinced I ought to submit and be content.
Amongst the rest of his discourse, he endeavoured to show me (one day after I had been loudly
condemning my cruel fortune, and saying I was born to be unhappy) that I was mistaken if I
thought or imagined it was chance or accident that had been against me when I complained of
fortune. "For," says he, "Peter, there is nothing done below but is at least foreknown, if
not decreed, above; and our business in life is to believe so: not that I would have such belief
make us careless, and think it to no purpose to strive, as some do; who, being persuaded that
our actions are not in our own choice, but that, being pressed by an irresistible decree, we
are forced to act this or that, fancy we must be necessarily happy or miserable hereafter;
or, as others, who, for fear of falling upon that shocking principle, would even deprive the
Almighty of foreknowledge, lest it should consequentially amount to a decree: for, say they,
what is foreknown, will and must be. But I would have you act so as that, let either of these
tenets be true, you may still be sure of making yourself easy and happy; and for that purpose
let me recommend to you a uniform life of justice and piety; always choosing the good rather
than the bad side of every action: for this, say they what they will to the contrary, is not
above the power of a reasonable being to practise: and doing so, you may without scruple say,--If
there is foreknowledge of my actions, or they are decreed, I then am one who is foreknown or
decreed to be happy. And this, without farther speculation, you will find the only means always
to keep you so; for all men, of all denominations, fully allow this happy effect to follow
good actions. Again, Peter, a person acting in a vicious course, with such an opinion in his
head as above, must surely be very miserable, as his very actions themselves must pronounce
the decree against him: whilst, therefore, we have not heard the decree read, you see we may
easily give sentence whether it be for good or evil to us, by the tenor and course of our own
actions.

"You are not now to learn, Peter, that the crimes of the father are often punished in the children,
often in the father himself, sometimes in both, and not seldom in neither, in this life; and
though, at first, one should think the future punishment annexed to bad actions was sufficient,
still it is necessary some should suffer here also for an example to others; we being much
more affected with what the eye sees, than what the heart only meditates upon.

"Now, to bring it to our own case; your father, Peter, rose against the lawful magistrate,
to deprive him (it matters not that he was a bad one) of his lawful power. Your father's policy
was such, and his design so well laid, as he thought, that upon any ill success to himself,
he had secured his estate to go in the way of all others he could wish to have it, and sits
down very well contented that, happen what would, he should bite the Government in preventing
the forfeiture. But lo! his policy is as a wall of sand blown down with a puff! for it is to
you it ought, even himself being umpire, to have come, as no one would think he would prize
any before you, his own child. Now, could he look from the grave, and know what passes here,
and see Mr. G. in possession of all he fancied he had secured for you, what a weak and short-sighted
creature would he find himself! If it be said he did not know he should have a child, then
herein appears God's policy beyond man's; for He knew it, and has so ordered that that child
should be disinherited; for, by the way, Peter, take this for a maxim, wherever the first principle
of an action is ill, no good consequence can possibly ever be an attendant on it. Could he,
as I said before, but look up and see you, his only child, undone by the very instrument he
designed for your security, how pungent would be his anxiety! I say, Peter, though there is
something so unaccountable to human wisdom in such events of things, yet there is something
therein so reasonable and just withal, that by a prying eye, the Supreme Hand may very visibly
be seen in them. Now, this being plainly the case before us, and herein the glory of the Almighty
exalted, rest content under it, and let not this disappointment, befallen you for your father's
faults, be attended with others sent down for your own; but remember this, the Hand that depresses
a man is no less able to exalt and establish him." In short, without more consideration, I
rose in the morning early and marched off, having first wrote to my wife at her aunt's, relating
the state of the case to her, with my resolution to leave England the first opportunity, giving
her what comfort I could, assuring her if I ever was a gainer in life she should not fail to
be a partaker, and promising also to let her know where I settled. I walked at a great rate,
for fear my master's kindness should prompt him to send after me; and taking the bye-ways,
I reached by dark night a little village, where I resolved to halt. Upon inquiry I found myself
thirty-five miles from my master's. I had eaten nothing all day, and was very hungry and weary,
but my crown-piece was as yet whole; however I fed very sparingly, being over-pressed with
the distress of my affairs and the confusion of my thoughts. I slept that night tolerably,
but the morning brought its face of horror with it. I had inquired over-night where I was,
and been informed that I was not above sixteen miles from Bristol, for which place I then resolved.

At my setting out in the morning, after I had walked about three miles, and had recollected
a little my master's last discourse, I found by degrees my spirit grew calmer than it had been
since I left Mr. G. at my house (as I shall ever call it), and looking into myself for the
cause, found another set of thoughts were preparing a passage into my mind, which did not carry
half the dread and terror with them that their predecessors had; for I began to cast aside
the difficulties and apprehensions I before felt in my way, and encouraging the present motions,
soon became sensible of the benefit of a virtuous education; and though what I had hitherto
done in the immediate service of God, I must own had been performed from force, custom, and
habit, and without the least attention to the object of the duty; yet, as under my mother at
home, and my master at the academy, I had been always used to say my prayers, as they called
it, morning and night: I began, with a sort of superstitious reflection, to accuse myself of
having omitted that duty the night before, and also at my setting out in the morning, and very
much to blame myself for it, and, at the same instant, even wondered at myself for that blame.
What, says I, is the real use of this praying; and to whom or to what do we pray? I see no
one to pray to; neither have I ever thought that my prayers would be answered. It is true they
are worded as if we prayed to God: but He is in heaven; does He concern Himself with us who
can do Him no service? Can I think all my prayers that I have said, from day to day, so many
years, have been heard by Him? No, sure; if they had, I should scarce have sustained this hard
fate in my fortune. But hold, how have I prayed to Him? Have I earnestly prayed to Him, as
I used to petition my mother for anything when I wanted it against her inclination? No, I can't
say I have. And would my mother have granted me such things, if she had not thought I had from
my heart desired them, when I used to be so earnest with her? No, surely; I can't say she had
any reason for it. But I had her indeed before me; now I have not God in my view: He is in
heaven. Yet, let me see; my master (and I can't help thinking he must know) used to say that
God is a spirit, and not confined by the incumbrance of a body, as we are; now, if it is so,
why may He not virtually be present with me, though I don't perceive Him? Why may He not be
at once in heaven and elsewhere? For if He consists not in parts, nothing can circumscribe
Him: and, truly, I believe it must be so; for if He is of that supreme power as He is represented,
He could never act in so unconfined a capacity, under the restraint of place; but if He is
an operative and purely spiritual Being, then I can see no reason why His virtual essence should
not be diffused through all nature; and then (which I begin to think most likely) why should
I not suppose Him ever present with me, and able to hear me? And why should not I, when I pray,
have a full idea of the Being, though not of any corporeal parts or form of God, and so have
actually somewhat to be intent upon in my prayers, and not do as I have hitherto done, say
so many words only upon my knees; which I cannot help thinking may be as well without either
sense or meaning in themselves, as without a proper object in my mind to direct them unto?

These thoughts agitated me at least two miles, working stronger and stronger in me; till at
length, bursting into tears, Have I been doing nothing, says I, in the sight of God, under
the name of prayers, for so many years? Yes, it is certainly so. Well, by the grace of God,
it shall be so no longer; I will try somewhat more. So looking round about me, to see if I
was quite alone, I stepped into an adjoining copse, and could scarce refrain falling on my
knees, till I came to a proper place for kneeling in. I then poured forth my whole soul and
spirit to God; and all my strength, and every member, every faculty was to the utmost employed,
for a considerable time, in the most agreeable as well as useful duty. I would indeed have
begun with my accustomed prayers, and had repeated some words of them; when, as though against
and contrary to my design, I was carried away by such rapturous effusions that, to this hour,
when I reflect thereon, I cannot believe but I was moved to them by a much more than human
impulse. However, this ecstasy did not last above a quarter of an hour; but it was considerably
longer before my spirits subsided to their usual frame. When I had a little composed myself,
how was I altered! how did I condemn myself for all my past disquiet! what calm thanks did
I return for the ease and satisfaction of mind I then enjoyed! And coming to a small rivulet,
I drank a hearty draught of water and contentedly proceeded on my journey. I reached Bristol
about four o'clock in the afternoon. Having refreshed myself, I went the same evening to the
quay to inquire what ships were in the river, whither bound, and when they would depart. My
business was with the sailors, of whom there were at that time great numbers there; but I could
meet with no employ, though I gave out I would gladly enter myself before the mast. After I
had done the best I could, but without success, I returned to the little house I had dined
at, and went to bed very pensive. I did not forget my prayers; but I could by no means be roused
to such devotion as I felt in the morning. Next day I walked again to the quay, asking all
I met, who looked like seafaring men, for employment; but could hear of none, there being many
waiting for berths; and I feared my appearance (which was not so mean as most of that sort
of gentry is) would prove no small disappointment to my preferment that way. At last, being
out of heart with my frequent repulses, I went to a landing-place just by, and as I asked some
sailors, who were putting two gentlemen on shore, if they wanted a hand on board their ship,
one of the gentlemen, whom I afterwards found to be the master of a vessel bound to the coast
of Africa, turned back and looking earnestly on me, "Young man," says he, "do you want employment
on board?" I immediately made him a bow, and answered, "Yes, sir." Said he, "There is no talking
in this weather (for it then blew almost a storm), but step into that tavern," pointing to
the place, "and I will be with you presently." I went thither, and not long after came my future
master. He asked me many questions, but the first was, whether I had been at sea. I told him
no; but I did not doubt soon to learn the duty of a sailor. He then looked on my hand, and
shaking his head, told me it would not do, for I had too soft a hand. I told him I was determined
for the sea, and that my hand and heart should go together; and I hoped my hand would soon
harden, though not my heart. He then told me it was a pity to take such a pretty young fellow
before the mast; but if I understood accounts tolerably, and could write a good hand, he would
make me his steward, and make it worth my while. I answered in the affirmative, joyfully accepting
his offer; but on his asking me where my chest was (for, says he, if the wind had not been
so strong against me, I had fallen down the river this morning), I looked very blank, and plainly
told him I had no other stores than I carried on my back. The captain smiled. Says he, "Young
man, I see you are a novice; why, the meanest sailor in my ship has a chest, at least, and
perhaps something in it. Come," says he, "my lad, I like your looks; be diligent and honest;
I will let you have a little money to set you out, and deduct it in your pay." He was then
pulling out his purse, when I begged him, as he seemed to show me so great a kindness, that
he would order somebody to buy what necessaries he knew I should want for me, or I should be
under as great a difficulty to know what to get, and where to buy them, as I should have been
at for want of them. He commended my prudence, and said he would buy them and send them on
board himself; so bid me trouble myself no more about them, but go to the ship in the return
of his boat, and stay there till he came; giving me a ticket to the boat's crew to take me
in. When I came to the shore, the boat was gone off and at a good distance; but I hailed them,
and showing my ticket, they put back and took me safe to the ship; heartily glad that I was
entered upon my new service. By and by comes a pert young fellow up: "Sir," says he, "your
servant; what, I see our captain has picked up a passenger at last."--"Passenger?" says I;
"you are pleased to be merry, sir; I am no passenger."--"Why, pray," says he, "what may you
be then?"--"Sir," says I, "the captain's steward."--"You impertinent puppy," says he, "what
an answer you give me; you the captain's steward! No, sir, that place, I can assure you, is
in better hands!" and away he turned. I knew not what to think of it, but was terribly afraid
I should draw myself into some scrape. By and by others asked me, some one thing, some another,
and I was very cautious what answers I made them, for fear of offence: till a gravish sailor
came and sat down by me; and after talking of the weather and other indifferent matters, "Pray,"
says I, "sir, who is that gentleman that was so affronted at me soon after I came on board?"--"Oh,"
says he, "a proud, insignificant fellow, the captain's steward; but don't mind him," says he;
"he uses the captain himself as bad; they have had high words just before the captain went
on shore; and had he used me as he did him, I should have made no ceremony of tipping him overboard--a
rascal!" Says I, "You surprise me; for the captain sent me on board to be his steward, and
agreed with me about it this afternoon."--"Hush," says he, "I see how it will go; the captain,
if that's the case, will discharge him when he comes on board; and indeed I believe he would
not have kept him so long, but we have waited for a wind, and he could not provide himself."

The captain came on board at night; and the first thing he did was to demand the keys of Mr.
Steward, which he gave to me, and ordered him on shore.

The next morning the captain went on shore himself; but the wind chopping about and standing
fair about noon, he returned then with my chest, and before night we were got into sailing
order, and before the wind with a brisk gale.

What happened the first fourteen days of our passage I know not, having been all that time
so sick and weak I could scarcely keep life and soul together; but after grew better and better.
We prosecuted our voyage, touching for about a week at the Madeiras in our way. The captain
grew very fond of me, and never put me to hard duty, and I passed my time, under his favour,
very pleasantly. One evening, being within sixty leagues of the Cape of Palms, calm weather,
but the little wind we had against us, one of our men spied a sail, and gave the captain notice
of it He, not suspecting danger, minded it little, and we made what way the wind would permit,
but night coming on, and the calm continuing, about peep of day we perceived we were infallibly
fallen in with a French privateer, who, hoisting French colours, called out to us to strike.
Our captain had scarce time to consider what to do, they were so near us; but as he had twenty-two
men on board, and eight guns he could bring to, he called all hands upon deck, and telling
them the consequence of a surrender, asked them if they would stand by him. One and all swore
they would fight the ship to the bottom, rather than fall into the privateer's hands. The captain
immediately gave the word for a clear deck, prepared his firearms, and begged them to be active
and obey orders; and perceiving the privateer out-numbered our hands by abundance, he commanded
all the small arms to be brought upon deck loaded, and to run out as many of the ship's guns
as she could bring to on one side, and to charge them all with small shot, then stand to till
he gave directions. The privateer being a light ship, and a small breeze arising, run up close
to us, first firing one gun, then another, still calling out to us to strike, but we neither
returned fire nor answer, till he came almost within pistol-shot of us, and seeing us a small
vessel, thought to board us directly; but then our captain ordered a broadside, and immediately
all hands to come on deck; himself standing there at the time of our first fire with his fusee
in his hand, and near him I stood with another. We killed eight men and wounded several others.
The privateer then fired a broadside through and through us. By this time our hands were all
on deck, and the privateer pushing, in hopes to grapple and board us, we gave them a volley
from thence, that did good execution; and then all hands to the ship's guns again, except four,
who were left along with me to charge the small arms. It is incredible how soon they had fired
the great guns and were on deck again. This last fire, being with ball, raked the privateer
miserably. Then we fired the small arms, and away to the ship's guns. This we did three times
successively without loss of a man, and I believe if we could have held it once more, and no
assistance had come to the privateer, she had sheered quite off: but our captain spying a sail
at some distance behind the privateer, who lay to windward of us, and seeing by his glass it
was a Frenchman, was almost dismayed; the same sight put courage into our enemies, who thereupon
redoubled the attack, and the first volley of their small arms shot our captain in the breast,
upon which he dropped dead without stirring. I need not say that sight shocked me exceedingly.
Indeed it disconcerted the whole action; and though our mate, a man of good courage and experience,
did all that a brave man could do to animate the men, they apparently drooped, and the loss
of the ship became inevitable; so we struck, and the Frenchman boarded us.

During the latter part of the engagement we had two men killed and five wounded, who died afterwards
of their wounds. We, who were alive, were all ordered on board the Frenchman, who, after rifling
us, chained us two and two and turned us into the hold. Our vessel was then ransacked; and
the other privateer, who had suffered much the day before in an engagement with an English
twenty-gun ship of war, coming up, the prize was sent by her into port, where she herself was
to refit. In this condition did I and fourteen of our crew lie for six weeks, till the fetters
on our legs had almost eaten to the bone, and the stench of the place had well-nigh suffocated us.

The "Glorieux" (for that was the name of the privateer who took us) saw nothing farther in
five weeks worth her notice, which very much discouraged the men; and consulting together,
it was agreed to cruise more northward, between Sierra Leone and Cape de Verde; but about noon
next day they spied a sail coming west-north-west with a fresh gale. The captain thereupon
ordered all to be ready, and lie by for her. But though she discerned us, she kept her way,
bearing only more southward; when the wind shifting to northeast, she ran for it, full before
the wind, and we after her, with all the sail we could crowd; and though she was a very good
sailer, we gained upon her, being laden, and before night came pretty well up with her; but
being a large ship, and the evening hazy, we did not choose to engage her till morning. The
next morning we found she was slunk away; but we fetched her up, and hoisting French colours,
fired a shot, which she not answering, our captain run alongside of her and fired a broadside;
then slackening upon her, a hard engagement ensued; the shot thumping so against our ship,
that we prisoners, who had nothing to do in the action, expected death, one or other of us,
every moment. The merchantman was so heavy loaded, and drew so much water, that she was very
unwieldy in action; so after a fight of two hours, when most of her rigging and masts were
cut and wounded, she struck. Twelve men were sent on board her, and her captain and several
officers were ordered on board us.

There were thirty-eight persons in her, including passengers; all of whom, except five, and
the like number which had been killed in the action, were sent chained into the hold to us,
who had lain there almost six weeks. This prize put Monsieur into good heart, and determined
him to return home with her. But in two days' time his new acquisition was found to have leaked
so fast near the bottom, that before they were aware of it the water was risen some feet. Several
hands were employed to find out the leak; but all asserted it was too low to be come at; and
as the pumps, with all the labour the prisoners, who were the persons put to it, could use,
would not reduce it, but it still increased, they removed what goods they could into the privateer;
and before they could unload it the prize sunk.

The next thing they consulted upon was what to do with the prisoners, who, by the loss of the
prize, were now grown too numerous to be trusted in the privateer; fearing, too, as they were
now so far out at sea, by the great addition of mouths, they might soon be brought to short.
allowance, it was, on both accounts, resolved to give us the prize's boat, which they had saved,
and turn us adrift to shift for ourselves. There were in all forty-three of us; but the privateer
having lost several of their own men in the two engagements, they looked us over, and picking
out two-and-twenty of us, who were the most likely fellows for their purpose, the remaining
one-and-twenty were committed to the boat, with about two days' provision and a small matter
of ammunition, and turned out.

When we, who were in the boat, came to reflect on our condition, the prospect before us appeared
very melancholy; though we had at first readily enough embraced the offer, rather than perish
in so much misery as we suffered in our loathsome confinement. We now judged we were above
two hundred leagues from land, in about eight degrees north latitude; and it blowing north-east,
a pretty stiff gale, we could make no way, but rather lost, for we aimed at some port in Africa,
having neither sail, compass, nor any other instrument to direct us; so that all the observation
we could make was by the sun for running southward, or as the wind carried us, for we had lost
the North Pole. As we had little above two days' provisions, we perceived a necessity of almost
starving voluntarily, to avoid doing it quite, seeing it must be many days before we could
reach shore, if ever we did, having visibly driven a great deal more southward than we were;
nay, unless a sudden change happened, we were sure of perishing, unless delivered by some ship
that Providence might send in our way. In short, the ninth day came, but no relief with it;
and though we had lived at quarter allowance, and but just saved life, our food, except a little
water, was all gone, and this caused us quite to despair. On the twelfth day four of our company
died with hunger in a very miserable way; and yet the survivors had not strength left to move
them to pity their fellows. In truth, we had sat still, attempting nothing in several days;
as we found that, unless the wind shifted, we only consumed the little strength we had left
to no manner of purpose. On the fourteenth day, and in the night, five more died, and a sixth
was near expiring; and yet we, the survivors, were so indolent, we would scarce lend a hand
to throw them overboard. On the fifteenth day, in the morning, our carpenter, weak as he was,
started up, and as the sixth man was just dead, cut his throat, and whilst warm let out what
blood would flow; then pulling off his old jacket, invited us to dinner, and cutting a large
slice of the corpse, devoured it with as much seeming relish as if it had been ox-beef. His
example prevailed with the rest of us, one after another, to taste and eat; and as there had
been a heavy dew or rain in the night, and we had spread out everything we had of linen and
woollen to receive it, we were a little refreshed by wringing our clothes and sipping what
came from them; after which we covered them up from the sun, stowing them all close together
to keep in the moisture, which served us to suck at for two days after, a little and a little
at a time; for now we were in greater distress for water than for meat. It has surprised me,
many times since, to think how we could make so light a thing of eating our fellow creature
just dead before our eyes; but I will assure you, when we had once tasted, we looked on the
blessing to be so great, that we cut and eat with as little remorse as we should have had for
feeding on the best meat in an English market; and most certainly, when this corpse had failed,
if another had not dropped by fair means, we should have used foul by murdering one of our
number as a supply for the rest.

Water, as I said before, to moisten our mouths, was now our greatest hardship, for every man
had so often drank his own, that we voided scarce anything but blood, and that but a few drops
at a time; our mouths and tongues were quite flayed with drought, and our teeth just fallen
from our jaws; for though we had tried, by placing all the dead men's jackets and shirts one
over another, to strain some of the sea-water through them by small quantities, yet that would
not deprive it of its pernicious qualities; and though it refreshed a little in going down,
we were so sick, and strained ourselves so much after it, that it came up again, and made us
more miserable than before. Our corpse now stunk so, what was left of it, that we could no
longer bear it on board, and every man began to look with an evil eye on his fellow, to think
whose turn it would be next; for the carpenter had started the question, and preached us into
the necessity of it; and we had agreed, the next morning, to put it to the lot who should be
the sacrifice. In this distress of thought it was so ordered by good Providence, that on the
twenty-first day we thought we spied a sail coming from the north-west, which caused us to
delay our lots till we should see whether it would discover us or not: we hung up some jackets
upon our oars, to be seen as far off as we could, but had so little strength left we could
make no way towards it; however, it happened to direct its course so much to our relief, that
an hour before sunset it was within a league of us, but seemed to bear away more eastward,
and our fear was that they should not know our distress, for we were not able to make any noise
from our throats that might be heard fifty yards; but the carpenter, who was still the best
man amongst us, with much ado getting one of the guns to go off, in less than half-an-hour
she came up with us, and seeing our deplorable condition, took us all on board, to the number
of eleven. Though no methods were un-essayed for our recovery, four more of us died in as many
days. When the remaining seven of us came a little to ourselves, we found our deliverers were
Portuguese, bound for Saint Salvadore. We told the captain we begged he would let us work our
passage with him, be it where it would, to shore; and then, if we could be of no further service
to him, we did not doubt getting into Europe again: but in the voyage, as we did him all the
service in our power, we pleased him so well that he engaged us to stay with him to work the
ship home again, he having lost some hands by fever soon after his setting sail.

We arrived safe in port; and in a few days the captain, who had a secret enterprise to take
in hand, hired a country coasting vessel, and sent her seventeen leagues farther on the coast
for orders from some factory or settlement there. I was one of the nine men who were destined
to conduct her; but not understanding Portuguese, I knew little of the business we went upon.
We were to coast it all the way; but on the tenth day, just at sunrise, we fell in with a fleet
of boats which had waylaid us, and were taken prisoners. Being carried ashore, we were conducted
a long way up the country, where we were imprisoned, and almost starved, though I never knew
the meaning of it; nor did any of us, unless the mate, who, we heard, was carried up the country
much farther, to Angola; but we never heard more of him, though we were told he would be sent
back to us.

Here we remained under confinement almost three months, at the end of which time our keeper
told us we were to be removed; and coupling us two and two together, sent a guard with us to
Angola; when, crossing a large river, we were set to work in removing the rubbish and stones
of a castle or fortress, which had been lately demolished by an earthquake and lightning. Here
we continued about five months, being very sparingly dieted, and locked up every night.

This place, however, I thought a paradise to our former dungeon; and as we were not overworked,
we made our lives comfortable enough, having the air all day to refresh us from the heat, and
not wanting for company; for there were at least three hundred of us about the whole work;
and I often fancied myself at the tower of Babel, each labourer almost speaking in a language
of his own.

Towards the latter end of our work our keepers grew more and more remiss in their care of us.
At my first coming thither, I had contracted a familiarity with one of the natives, but of
a different kingdom, who was then a slave with me; and he and I being able tolerably to understand
each other, he hinted to me, one day, the desire he had of seeing his own country and family,
who neither knew whether he was dead or alive, or where he was, since he had left them, seven
years before, to make war in this kingdom; and insinuated that as he had taken a great liking
to me, if I would endeavour to escape with him, and we succeeded, he would provide for me.
"For," says he, "you see, now our work is almost over, we are but slightly guarded; and if
we stay till this job is once finished, we may be commanded to some new works at the other
end of the kingdom, for aught we know, so that our labours will only cease with our lives:
and for my part, immediate death in the attempt of liberty is to me preferable to a lingering
life of slavery."

These, and such-like arguments, prevailed on me to accompany him, as he had told me he had
travelled most of the country before in the wars of the different nations; so having taken
our resolution, the following evening, soon after our day's work, and before the time came
for locking up, we withdrew from the rest, but within hearing, thinking if we should then be
missed and called, we would appear and make some excuse for our absence, but if not, we should
have the whole night before us.

When we were first put upon this work, we were called over singly, by name, morning and evening,
to be let out and in, and were very narrowly observed in our motions; but not one of us having
been ever absent, our actions were at length much less minded than before, and the ceremony
of calling us over was frequently omitted; so that we concluded if we got away unobserved the
first night, we should be out of the reach of pursuers by the next; which was the soonest it
was possible for them to overtake us, as we proposed to travel the first part of our journey
with the utmost despatch.

Having now set out with all possible speed, we seemed to each other as joyful as we could;
though it cannot be supposed we had no fears in our minds the first part of our journey, for
we had many; but as our way advanced our fears subsided; and having, with scarce any delay,
pushed forwards for the first twenty-four hours, nature then began to have two very pressing
demands upon us, food and rest; but as one of them was absolutely out of our power to comply
with, she contented herself with the other till we should be better able to supply her, and
gave a farther time till the next day.

The next morning found us very empty and sharp-set, though a very sound night's rest had contributed
its utmost to refresh us. But what added much to our discomfort was, that though our whole
subsistence must come from fruits, there was not a tree to be found at a less distance than
twelve leagues, in the open rocky country we were then in; but a good draught of excellent
water we met with did us extraordinary service, and sent us with much better courage to the
woods, though they were quite out of the way of our route: there, by divers kinds of fruits,
which, though my companion knew very well, I was quite a stranger to, we satisfied our hunger
for the present, and took a moderate supply for another opportunity. This retarded our journey
very much, for in so hard travel every pound weighed six before night.

I cannot say this journey, though bad enough, would have been so discouraging, but for the
trouble of fetching our provisions so far; and then, if we meant not to lose half the next
day in the same manner, we must double load ourselves, and delay our progress by that means;
but we still went on, and in about eight days got quite clear of Angola.

On the eighth day, my companion, whose name was Glanlepze, told me we were very near the confines
of Congo, but there was one little village still in Angola by which we must pass within half
a league; and if I would agree to it, he would go see what might be got here to supply ourselves
with. I told him I was in an unknown world, and would follow wherever he should lead me; but
asked him if he was not afraid of the people, as he was not of that country. Gonzalo promised to
bring their influence, he reluctantly hinted more or less clear, flattering success, boasting of the
power exercised over it. Until then, all indications that did, had been answered .-- "I think if I
do not manage to finish the company, no other person may try it" - he concluded by saying in a burst
of growth and pride. That same night seized the moment when Cecilia
came to light the lamp at the office, to say laughing: - Do you have
something to do now, Cecilia?

... No? ... Then sit down a moment, I'll confess. She looked at him with big blue eyes and soft,
where he painted the surprise.

Gonzalo forced her to sit. - Do you have a boyfriend? - The asked
abruptly. - What a question - she said smiling face, without shame.
- I do not mean fiance.

If
you had it and was I aware . I just want to know if young people that there is one that I brought had
been more or less interested. - What do you want to know? - Answer.

Cecilia shook. - Then I will take the liberty to speak to one, who
has begged me ... This is my friend Paco Flores, whom you know.

He asked me to recommend him to you, while wondering if the few times
I talked you had been unpleasant. - Nasty? - Asked with surprise .--
Why?

A nobody I do not dislike it until it commits any rudeness. - Then
asked me to ask you if you agree to be tabled in this house. - That's
another thing - would suddenly getting answered .-- I can not prevent
that is presented here, but as my consent could mean that I have liked
you visit us, I'm not willing to give. - It is not that you accept
by boyfriend - Gonzalo said quickly want .-- Only let him treat you
any time, and if after you consider worthy of your hand, granting
it, and if not, deny it. - Well, of course denied, and without treatment
- the young woman replied firmly. - "Very soon that - Gonzalo said,
smiling to hide his irritation that this sudden response had occurred.
- I think in these matters the more sincere we are, the better for
everyone.

Why bother that guy has to visit a Long term to receive the response that I can give right now?
- Well, well, proceed calmly.

If you Paco is not unpleasant, as you confess, you can ensure that
after six or eight months or a year, do not fall for it. - I can not
fall in love - with a bitter smile she said that her brother did not
understand. - Love comes when least expected - he said .-- We sententiously
years and years without feeling, and one day, bam! da heart sank.

Have we found our soulmate.

These words so naive as cruel removed the few drops of gall Cecilia
kept in his chest.

With quick sentence and looking hard at one of the arms of the chair where she sat, said: - Well,
I'm sure my heart will not flop! any day. - Why do You say that, Cecilia? women more than men, are
made for love, for the enjoyment it provides, for family life.

You could say that the only destiny of women on earth is marriage, because it is responsible to hold
onto her life.

Its physical layout, all organs of the body are built for the production
of this life ... Gonzalo advocated by his friend Paco, appealing,
as it looks, even physiology.

Cecilia listened in silence, his face stern, staring into
the void. His brother's words sounded in his soul as a tone of desolation.
Yes, it was true, unfortunately it was all true! When finished making
the apology of love, made his friend Paco Flores, a young man so
clear, so formal, the son of a good family, brilliant career, etc.
, etc. dryly Cecilia persisted in refusing his consent to come home.

Gonzalo Then, a little irritated by
the dispute, and wounded his pride no reason for having boasted in front
of Paco its influence on the young, he uttered some harsh words:
"Why it seemed little chance for her?

Paco was not rich,
but could aspire to her hand. In Sarrió not find a guy better than
him.

No cross
out, surely the marriage of proportion. Or is it expected a prince
of the blood?

... Then they can
not be neglected a lot, because young women soon passes, and there
have been many disappointments in these matters ... "She heard the
tirade of his brother to end, without even lifting a finger.

When finished, rose sharply from the seat, his face pale, her hands convulsively, and hastily left
the room.

In crossing the hall to go to his room, two large tears rolled down her cheeks. After noisy
challenge, learned the hard Belinchón, although some historians claim
otherwise, enjoy the modestly well-deserved reputation and aura that
immediately circled.

Perhaps those are set to support the opposite view, have been discovered
in some of the distinguished gentleman provocations certain subjects
of the town, not quite justified.

But in doing so, they were not aware that such provocations came not as a result of the important
event that we narrated, but some time later. In history, the chronology
is always of paramount importance.

And in
this particular we are trying, successfully explains the actions of our hero. While in the village
took the impression of the event, those samples are ascribed to him with admiration that was undoubtedly
creditor.

Even his enemies as he passed, watching him with respect, if not
with sympathy.

Rosendo
So, instead of abusing his recognized superiority, as another man
would have made less effort and modesty, appeared with a major continent,
yes, but gentle, wandering the streets with the same serenity and
moderation than before.

Remarkable example of prudence, rather than agradecérsele served to be attempted and perpetrated
against him some contempt. For now, the cabin began to be made fun of the challenge. Are weighted
with malicious intent and exaggerating, the jumps that the founder
of Lighthouse had back in the match.

These jokes, which, as might be expected, was the initiator Gabino Maza, did not stop on the
campus of the party.

They spread throughout the population, so that after a few days a large proportion of its people smiled
ironically on hearing about the famous affair of honor. Don Rosendo transpired some of this mockery,
not only ears but also eyes. He warned that instead of looks friendly and courtesy that he used,
his neighbors began to take a rude attitude, becoming distracted, or turning the head when
he passed by. When crossing in front of a circle, thought he heard
laughter compressed.

What you had to do in this case? Undoubtedly leave modesty aside and force those miscreants feel the
weight of their expertise in swordsmanship. The first sign he gave of his indignation and contempt
of the sovereign inspired his enemies, was the spitting on the ground with noise, when one of them
crossed to his side, as indicating that it was disgusting. As they understood the reason for this
extraordinary secretion, the most timid began to think that lightning might well accompany the rain,
and carefully avoided stumbling. The bravest passed him, ignoring that cough contemptuous, but
without daring to look him in the face.

After some time I turned around and calmly and said, laughing: - "I met Don Rosendo .-- How
about, did you cough? - I think, seemed to explode!" And Cabin in the running jokes and more
jokes were held against our great patrician rude. One of them was on parade one after another at a
distance, all members of the party ahead of him.

Don Rosendo was from that time without saliva and throat crushed. Maza Gabino only took him
seriously and ensured that it would escape that ox (the word is hard, but textual)
to spit when he passed.

And indeed, Don Rosendo had hitherto refrained from doing so. I thought you had to keep certain
considerations to the head of the opposing side. But one night he brought his head a little
excited by the challenge of reading a two Yankees, the bump near the cafe in the Marina with
Maza, came up spitting in the provocative way she wore. That suddenly became a rage, and holding him tightly
by the wrist, she whispered in a tone mad: - Hey you, fool: I do not you cough or tuberculosis
fourth grade! Do you hear?

Don Rosendo, as right man, very handy in these matters of honor, he said nothing at that time. But
the next day did not leave the house waiting for the godfathers of Maza, which, fortunately
for it, did not appear. The challenge and the attitude of Don Rosendo, had, however, beneficial
consequences for the population. Thanks to our hero was born in her fondness for guns. A lot of
its most distinguished inhabitants to cultivate earnestly began fencing. It was not just the
editors of the lighthouse and the gatherings of the Club who indulged in this noble exercise trained
by M. Lemaire. Also members of the Cabin, eventually realizing the importance of this art, set in a
warehouse adjacent armory. In front of it, put a replacement officer belonging to the cavalry,
who had jumped into the foil in Madrid. The immediate result of this advance was that the fights and
that each step is raised between the Club and the Cabin, were conducted in accordance with
all formulas and ceremonies prescribed in the code of honor. Maybe not weeks passed without
that the town shook with the comings and goings of the sponsors, rumors of the conferences at the
corners of cafes, the minutes were published immediately in Faro and in the newspapers of Lancia. For
twenty quarrels ten and nine ended with a record honorable to both parties, signed and signed
by the sponsor. So those affairs of honor, the only positive thing blows or punches were that the
contestants were given previously, notwithstanding that things take
their ordinary procedures.

Have another rarely, when tempers festered too, would "the field". Delaunay saber was given to Don
Rufo, insert a statement in the future of Lancia, which said that doctors were turning their
visit to the hospital at the time of order. The printer also Folgueras had fought with a brother
of Marin, for having denied the greeting one another. Fortunately, none of the two meetings had
been only whacked and welts. The most notable challenge was to don Rudesindo with Pedro Miranda, who
after hesitating for some time it had been decided by the Cabin. The reason was "the problem
of the slaughterhouse." The occasion, as follows. Don Pedro had stated in a house that Don
Rudesindo Belinchón supported the party only because the slaughterhouse is located on the beach of
Meanas, where he came home injured. Cider maker was aware of this said, speaking pests in the
Club Don Pedro, and was deeply offended by this assumption, much more
offended than it actually was.

Alvaro Pena, who was not happy but when I was a challenge at hand, hastened to say out loud
with his characteristic arrogance: - Lose you care, don Rudesindo. Miranda will give you
a repair. Do you want to leave my account? The good manufacturer would want to eat the words
he had come loose. Peña He was a man so expedient, why the hell had said he wanted to trip
to Don Pedro to give two kicks, when they had him leaving the house, and crossed to his side
without saying a word? But were there more than twenty people, and was under the painful necessity
of answering the aide, though less aggressive in tone as possible: - Well ... if you think it's
worth ... - Well, not to deserve! Assume that you are not on our side but is insulting mobile selfish bastards
... A JEV, Don Feliciano. Would you escuchaj a word?

Don Feliciano and he conferred in a corner a few moments. Thereupon
took to the streets.

Rudesindo
Don was quiet in appearance, in reality highly altered and roaring inside against Peña, against
the Club, against himself and against the mother that bore him. What need did he have of getting into
trouble?

A married man with children, who all his life had done nothing but work like a slave to carve
a little capital ... And now that I had ... such a quixotic farfantón ... Case! ... The manufacturer
could barely pass the sips of brandy from time to time introduced
into the mouth.

The thing is settled soon. Don Pedro Miranda was seeing things with a visit to Peña and Don Feliciano.
He said he could not recall ... he did not insult any of Don Rudesindo ... the contrary. But Pena
had tackled him, saying: - Well, Don Pedro. We can not hear that. You name two people who understand
us. The troubled owner named Gabino Delaunay Maza and representatives. Because of these, a
man was hot and fierce, and the other ill-intentioned, no compromise was possible. They refused to explain
at all. The launch was arranged a sword in the ancient cemetery
in the early hours of the morning. Rudesindo to know Don, he cursed the
hour that saw the light of day.

Its opposite Don Pedro was limited simply to be dropped on a sofa and order a cup of lime. But
there was no other choice but to go to where honor's name. At six in the morning, Peña and Don
Feliciano on the one hand, and Delaunay Maza and the other, they were taken from their homes to lead
the old cemetery. My God, the old cemetery! What ideas so gloomy fluttered through the brain
of Don Pedro Miranda as he walked over there! You can not compare them but they don Rudesindo
assaulted in the same way. Peña said before arriving: - Clearly, Don Rudesindo, that you marinade.
Heart tells me ... You will marinade.

You do not throw much, but has a game very difficult, very difficult! ... Manufacturer at the time
had given all his property by having it not difficult if not impossible. - Don Pedro has no
leg is addition, short-arm ... But, as you know in ajmas nothing is certain and sometimes they least expected,
wins the water if you have something to take care, do it before we
arrive. Don Rudesindo shuddered.

He walked a while in silence, and finally, taking some papers from his pocket, gave a hoarse
voice saying: - If I perish, you give this to Mr. Benedict. Two tears welled in her eyes at the same
time. - Mr. Benito el Rato? - Peña asked. Don Rudesindo not hear him. He had escaped and the road ahead
to hide his emotion. Why the name of his clerk gave him such emotion at that moment, we can not
explain it. Perhaps in the great crises of life, living and sudden
wake up sympathy in the depths of our being, which we had no suspicion.

The old cemetery near and to engage in farming, was a small enclosure where the grass grew and weeds.
The wooden crosses had rotted. No further testimony that this place was abode of the dead,
two skulls embedded in the wall formation on each side of the door. By the way that these skulls,
did not produce a pleasing impression on Don Rudesindo.

In Don Pedro does not know, but one can suspect that it would be more favorable. It took some time looking
site, because the nettles and brambles prevented conveniently go
and break the fighters.

While Peña, along with the witnesses against, was engaged in this task very serious, the good Don
Feliciano Gomez committed the impropriety (God bless you for it!)
of Don Pedro Miranda approach, which faded, looking stunned, stomach
puddle by the fabulous amount of cups of linden that had turned that
night, waited, leaning against the wall, that these gentlemen been
completed, in the attitude of a defendant to death. - Hey, Don Pedro,
cold, eh?

Wow what a morning! ... You see a man get up out of bed for this! Válgate God! (Silence interrupted
by some of the unfortunate belching Miranda.) Would have given the little finger, little finger,
yeah! by not having to attend a similar atrocity. But they say it is a favor that can not be
denied. Well, that is not denied in the case of a serious offense
... Where is here the grave offense?

Let's see, what I say, where is it? Válgate God!

Válgate God!

(New silence and belching new Don Pedro, which ends by bending the head on the chest, with the
same resignation that if put on the block.) How much better would
be tucked between the sheets taking the chocolate!

Eh, my boy? - Feliciano uttered, laying his hand on his shoulder with great familiarity. Miranda let
out a guttural imperceptible. - You bet! - Continued the trader .-- As much as I say, Don Pedro,
I can not believe you have desire to kill Don Rudesindo ... A neighbor ... has been his friend until
recently ... with whom he grew up and gone to school ... - No ... I win ... none - murmured
Don Pedro, always with the head on the block. - Velo you there! - Feliciano said giving a
great slap .-- What I said! Same thing happens to Don Rudesindo, my boy. And then, let's see,
who wants to kill here? Lets see what I say!

And glanced around, looking for an answer. Peña, Maza and Delaunay were far away and hidden by
some cypresses. Don Rudesindo also lay leaning on the wall, about fifty yards away. Then the
dealer, by a sudden and heavenly inspiration, beckoned him to approach.

Don Rudesindo advanced towards them slowly, shy and hesitant step.
- You say, my boy, who has no desire to kill Don Rudesindo? - Miranda
asked the merchant. - None - he murmured. - Would you by any chance,
wants to kill him? - Nope.

I've
always estimated Rudesindo - stammered the owner. - Huh? How? What did you say? - Feliciano cried
triumphant exaltation with you .-- That much has always considered Don Rudesindo, eh, my boy?
Did you say that? - Yes, sir. - Tell me, Rudesindo (walk a few steps to meet the maker of cider).
Do you desire to kill Mr. Don Pedro here ... a neighbor ... Your
friend has been until recently ... with whom you grew up and have
gone to the school of Don Matias Churro? - I, why? - said the manufacturer
eagerly opening his eyes. - Would you have desire to hurt him by accident?
- Neither do the least damage.

I've always had to be true friend. - How so? Huh? For a true friend,
right?

... Then, corresponding here, in my humble opinion, is that you bear a hug. When he had said these
words Feliciano, when Miranda and Don Rudesindo, by a simultaneous movement, advanced with
ferocious momentum one on the other lifted mustered the arms and hugged each other with such fury, that
almost all are out of joint bones of the chest cavity. Don Feliciano at the same point was violently
stripped of his hat, revealing his huge bald spot in decline, frantically waved a few seconds and
shouted: "Hurrah!" does not know who, perhaps beating the god had
supplied him so famous idea.

In that moment approaching witnesses. Seeing the scene stood surprised. Mostráronse happy with such
a solution in appearance, but each is separated by his side, and
that afternoon at the Club Peña Feliciano harshly reprimanded for
his conduct.

He came to say that he had made a fool and that if not because it
was an old friend and a person older than him, "you would require
jeparación. - A repair! - Said the optimal Feliciano. - What does
it matter that required, boy! - Do you deny batijse me? - asked the
bell-assistant with his voice. - Why we had to beat us? - For what
you want. - "I, to dance a tango or a-guaracha, my boy - he said,
and saying and doing started jumping around the room giving the castanets
until his hat fell off and the air was washing the stone head that
was .

Partners
leaping from the couches, laughing. Peña uttered some words of contempt, and withdrew piqued and
tasteless. The gatherings at the cabin, constantly harassed by the newsletters of the lighthouse
after it had decided to found another newspaper in that could wreak
vengeance on the injustices that they did.

Huge sacrifices that cost. Very few of them were rich. The only one who could be called so
was Don Pedro Miranda. This preference for a tooth to save him to
draw back the purse strings.

A lobbying power of prayers, find resources here and there, doing
addition and subtraction in the cabin, it was concluded to obtain
the amount necessary to mount a printing press.

In the Folgueras, or wanted to throw it to the newspaper, or humiliate
them to sue.

Where was the press, very modest indeed, willing to work, celebrated
the feast indispensable.

It was agreed to name the new body The Young Sarrio.

After dessert was provided with enthusiasm for their prosperity and the destruction of their vile
enemies . The appearance of the first issue, which brought the usual cartoon depicting a teen
hair parted down the middle, surrounded by a portion of canned food
in the form of books, reading attitude, more of a snack, one of them
, caused a sensation in the town alive.

He deserved it. The Cabin, as men who had to eat for many months the insults of Faro, is vented
with real relish.

Rodillero Holy Christ, what a wealth of insolence and impudence! From the beginning to the end
was devoted to mock, to offend and ridicule the members of the Club. It seemed that they
lacked time to call an ugly, the other wolverine, beyond the envious, to rough it, that one farfantón.
Of course, under assumed names, but so transparent that nobody in the population failed to meet
them. Belinchon was called Don Quixote and Sancho Rudesindo gift, Marquis of Tirapié Sinforoso, Peña
Captain Cholera, etc., Etc. And shields with this and had brought them, the deck that was
a blessing.
 I wondered to what this preface
tended, when he told us that since his return from the captain, as he spoke good Portuguese
and had sailed on board Portuguese traders several years, he mixed among that people, and particularly
among the crew of the "Del Cruz," the ship which had taken them; that that ship had partly
unloaded, and was taking in other goods for a future voyage; that he had informed himself of
their strength, and that very seldom more than three men and two boys lay on board; that he
had hired himself to the captain, and was to go on board the very next day. "Now," says he,
"my lads, if you can break prison any night after to-morrow, and come directly to the ship
(telling them how she lay, for, says he, you cannot mistake, you will find two or three boats
moored in the gut against the church), I will be ready to receive you, and we will get off
with her in lieu of our ship they have taken from us, for there is nothing ready to follow us."

The prisoners listened to this discourse very attentively; but scratched their heads, fearing
the difficulty of it, and severer usage if they miscarried, and made several objections; but
at last they all swore to attempt it the night but one following. Upon which the sailor went
away to prepare for their reception on board. After he was gone, I surveyed his scheme attentively
in my own mind, and found it not so difficult as I first imagined, if the prisoners could but
escape cleverly. So before I went away I told them I approved of their purpose; and as I was
their countryman, I was resolved, with their leaves, to risk my fortune with them. For there
is, however, just one more thing: the domain that Tirso has managed to perform on her, she
can influence a child, but the influence of cure.

As for Leocadia, it seems to have developed an indifference, selfishness that never thought I
could. Both rise almost at dawn, going to church and, while not return late, and the noise they
put out and wake up my dad, it turns out, failing to recapture the dream, is desperate until they
come to give him breakfast. Before, everything seemed little care for him yesterday complained
that the coffee, being cheap, was bad, and my mother, with a dreadful
calm, he said the worst would be the cup of bitterness and not said
harmful intent, but because Tirso hear nonsense like that. Despite
understand well, I had to look at her eyes and soak it was my mother,
not to drop a lot.

At lunchtime and before dinner say two prayers, sometimes even with Latin tags (imagine what
they read them!), And in the evening, if at any church function, and put you to the blanket .
Still have not dared to leave the two left alone, but it is not cursing out. In the conduct of my
mother, at least, it shows some sincerity, but Leocadia go to church because he has seen the
discovery that people and the look and distracted: he speaks of churches
and elegant churches corny, as if it were theater, and criticizes
the costumes of the Virgin as if they were her friends.

The double result of all this is that the peace is no longer fruit of my garden, and also travel
to the house of God they leave the mine without sweeping. The zeal cuddly and full of little
careful with that previously cared for my father, is now a hurry to finish and running soon to serve
what Tirso recommended.

In short, I fear that, without provocation or challenge for me, when I get Tirso to understand the
rule you have in your home, try to get on the trigger. Of course, you can not guess what is proposed.
Judging by some to ensure that no fittings purchase, you must have room,
but not a penny spent for us: he knows that I carry the weight of
the house, however, seems like he wants me to skip it.

I repeat that I do not understand, because as to become, first cracks me. Suffice to say that
what he called conversion is the entrance into the domain of imbecility: his devotion is what can
be more vulgar. Worst of all is that my father gets worse quickly. Now the doctor wants him
to use the spa, which will be expensive, but I've told you everything will be done, although
we have to sell to the chairs. Ted says that these are developments of science, before such
things were not known and therefore not left to heal the sick.

Instead mom has made a penny every month to not know what sorority or fraternity of the Alms
Light, and another for a Catholic school. The day I open the door to the collector, I miss him rolling
down the stairs. Farewell, my darling, do not get angry because you do not repeat a thousand
times I love you. In my dislikes say I lost the time. I have no time for more, but you know you
love your loving, PEPE. "Many days it will take you back? How did you find your father the district? Do
you expect your return can often see us? I would not enlist as a sticky, however, desire that Don
Luis I need to see you and talk. Write me greatly. "Jose XX began to worsen, and their discomfort, they
were daily increasing costs raged.

At first identified the disease a sedentary life, the excessive greed
in the natural food and its plethora of blood: then came easily falling
asleep anywhere, the casting belly and barely digest, accentuating
the repugnance to any physical effort.

With this disorder in the body, expressed some fickleness of character, that complete the picture of
arthritic condition, doctors say, in addition to other symptoms is
called dirty, until finally the disease broke out, fijándosele foot
pain, which is was swollen, red and sensitive joints.

The first access was extremely violent: later, at bedtime, then fall
asleep, but soon the pain despertábale rabies, taking some hours to
get it back, repeating these exacerbation until, evil possession of
both feet, was the unhappy subject prostrate to spend the days of
bed to chair, and from there to the former.

The acute nature of the chronic condition continued, the attacks lost in intensity, winning in duration,
had fever, and thereafter was rare day spent medium. In such a situation, when more care and
attention the patient asked, agrees Dona Manuela engaging in things
of the church, and she, once so compassionate and caring, was inadvertently
sinning forgetful and careless, showing no ill-will; but the result
was the same as if it was.

In spite of being tired sight for years, undertook the task of embroidering
an altar cloth gift to the parish, and while the goggles were deployed
and the needle in hand, but her husband called, was slow to come.

Giving the drugs at fixed times was subject to more holy attentions, and began to bother listening
to complaints, sample antojársele little hope and no resignation.

Don José racked his brains, unable to explain how this transformation could not hit as soon Tirso
Blessed trocar which was never pious, being the worst of which gave him no mercy for the love
of neighbor, or by surges in home care, but looked home and family as lower objects. Do not say
a word against the ordinary necessities of life, or deny the matter or extolling the superiority
of the ideal on what ground could be seen more clearly germinate in it the seed dropped by Tirso.
The strangest thing was that, for exceedingly clean, became somewhat unkempt, as if someone
had convinced that no one should attend first to the washing of the
body that the cleanliness of the soul.

Finally everything seemed exorbitant spending, and when the doctor spoke to the spa and bath
house said to carry a device necessary to address a severe cost per trip was contrary view to remedy,
thundering against the first inventions now. Pepe before it was contained as possible, but grudgingly
tolerated and any jokes that transcended to disbelief, and as the state of affairs at that
time was that all conversations would fall in the war, and talk about this was speaking of the clergy,
Dona Manuela listened with disgust to her son and her husband, when the first Republican boasted
the second progressive in the former. It took a few months elapsed since the arrival of Tirso,
repugnant to him and hear some conversations: sometimes even attempted to oppose them with greater
brand nonsense, to talk about what you do not understand. Don José
remained firm in his love read and comment on news of the war, readings
and comments that had always cursing against absolutism and civil
strife, Pepe, after lunch, stayed a while accompanying him, and these
were the best moments the old man passed, because they almost always
agreed the father and son.

Don José retained the strong start of the old Progressive Party, Pepe, prematurely skeptical,
given to violence, as a young man who is already fed up with betrayals, proposed remedies to the
ills strongest public. On how to end the civil war, were in accord: they had to finish it, not
by covenant, but by force of arms. Tirso, if you heard, he tried to restrain, but sometimes it
was impossible to conceal, and feeling as strong, raw in the conversation, showing sympathy not warm,
but fierce sectarian for the cause of absolutism. Last year, when war Franco-Prussian Pepe had
bought a map, cheap, which was on pins and flags, the march of both armies:
Don Jose, distracted and taken care that thought the duel between
the revolution and Carlism, repeated entertainment.

Pepe ordered placed on the wall a geographical map of the entire upper part of Spain, and every
part of the Gazette, to each new what was happening on the battlefields, marking the places he won
or lost by the soldiers liberal army or the armies of the Pretender,
which was justified Tirso reason to comment on news, exaggerating
wins and mitigate losses, depending on who was victorious.

The state of Spain was then heartbreaking. The country was convinced that if the elements had
not Carlism to win, had the bloodied enough for half the territory
of the country.

Early in 1873, taken up arms consignments were few, but soon increased. The insurrection in
Vizcaya not disturbed, the Aragonese Carlism saw his attempt fail in Santa Cruz de Nogueras,
and the Spaniards seem difficult to draw, but had fatal indications that the fight would be tough.
A Jesuit threatened with horrific shootings, later made, was leader who, having graduated at Christmas
his troops, assembled in haste, he armed himself Maestrazgo; increased risk in Catalonia and the
white berets came to this side of the Ebro . The frequency with which the liberal army general
moved out and the mistakes of central government, served as branches on the fire: hardly a day
passed without entering a rebel leader France, Navarre was a volcano; asaltábanse passenger
trains, and a famous priest inaugurated the long series of nasty mischief. Madrid, meanwhile, served
as a sanctuary to committees or boards fomenting the uprising, and
the same freedom, fought in the fields with bullets, was at the Court
seized with impunity by the side brigand.

Tirso, as if that comforted him, he began to openly and arrogantly satisfied without caution:
it would seem that the fight was playing some interest and that strange aberration, was easier
to moralize their families as the country was going insane . Finally, openly expressed their ideas,
said frankly that was Carlist and when his father read or had read
to him news of the war, took part in the comments, computations and
calculations opposing versions versions.

The reports came Pepe printers generally where extraordinary and threw leaflets from newspapers,
which often lied: new Tirso were unknown, but, sometimes, is anticipated to officers, were
more accurate and were confirmed, accusing all the that the drinking fountain was good, with
which Pepe was convinced that his brother frequented people directly involved in the events,
and corroborates the idea that Tirso's trip was the performance of a task more or less important, but
certainly . It was already explained his previous attitude. The early days of his stay in Madrid
was afraid of being discovered, and went out only once and late at
night; visitole then a knight, and since then became more open and
frank, as if those visits will take off weight above, and finally
lost the fear, and together intimated their satisfaction with the
progress of events and the influence on the minds of his mother.

The latter could not remain hidden for Don José, but regarding the suspicion of being Tirso
Carlists junior agent, Pepe meant nothing to her father, convinced he had to experience disgust.
Tired he understood that political struggles, for rare exceptions, are now the infamous privilege
to taint the family divisions, but he was not hiding it for the old and enthusiastic supporter of liberalism,
for the fan who ended the first civil war, it would be sad to know that
sorrow his child, made a sneak cleric, was an agent and servant of the
rebels. Don José is not yet guessed it: his curiosity was confused by
the effort to know what was the purpose of the journey. - Tirso is Carlist
- said talking to Pepe - no longer hidden: but, what the hell will
come ? - I figure that claim: want to be canon, and as it seems vain,
not tell us anything if you can not object. - What hurts me most is
that is upsetting your mother.

This morning I have gone to confession and the two have been in by ten: total, I have been given the
medicine too late and I can not eat up within hours. And look, look, and walk around. Pepe looked around.
On the sideboard were still dirty dishes that served for dinner the day before in the middle of the
table one could see the crumpled tablecloth made the leftover crumbs scattered around him, and
the balcony a basket full of white clothes backward and without review. - In contrast - the old man
continued, pointing to the wall - rain prints. Tirso had bought a chrome lithograph of the Virgin
of Lourdes gold trim frame, by placing the portrait of Espartero. - This - Pepe said - would be simply
ridiculous if we walked more than enough money: having so little, I think lack of trial, but beyond
him. - No, son, no, if you have paid your mother! twenty-eight realazos ... And then bellowed out
that Vichy water is modern farce that hydrotherapy is expensive!
XXI People whose handling obeyed Tirso trip to Madrid, was ordered to
wait at court orders, and he then thought of using some of friendships
that, in the shadow of his mission, he contracted with people of
the cloth and broke into a church, where, as a substitute, won something,
even little.

A bishop and a treasurer were the guards, through which could valimiento act in a parish,
not without some chaplains were upset, fearing that in the long run, we remove the pan: others,
however, for sympathy, or knowing how much they could who recommended him, made good friends
with him , and one of these, an old infirm, who had a reputation as a miser, he often gave
his position sometimes lucrative. Gossips whispered that it was reserving half of the remuneration,
despite this, each first funeral of his remaining two or three dollars and thirty Tirso each novena.
Also served in some festive feasts, and not forgetting her treasurer when he had to hand out
some mass. But what he aspired to was to have sermons, which came
out with each other at least two or three dollars, assuming that it
slander before targeted.

The first sermon was little effect to his new teammates, all people said they smelled: the second the
same thing happened, and in light of this study determined to improve themselves outside. From there,
a little touched, and then deployed all his energy. Had he noticed that, at that time revolutionary
threats, the devotees did not seem good priest who did not venture anything in the realm of
political overtones, and as everything was less shy, was launched walked on, determined not to
be less zealous defender of religion. For several days He prepared books considered the case, read
the Larraga and the Jesuit Father Roothaan, he consulted several books of sermons of Santander,
Eguileta and Pantaleon Garcia, mustered wise phrases, quotations from the Fathers and even figures
of speech, choosing tropes , hypotyposis and apostrophes that give color to their periods, after which
set the theme of prayer, based on those famous words: Give to God what is God's and unto Caesar
what is Caesar. * * * * * As the guild was paying the role of wealthy
people, the church was brilliant.

In the courtyard, immediately post a florist, had placed the box on the pious raffle whose prizes
were a caged canary, two sortijeros of glass, a headgear of cardboard for a child's toy and
stuck in a beacon Virgin appeared to bluff: two old ruddy and plump ballots outlets, and a woman
nearby had his basket of prints and they looked askance scapulars as poor merchant a wealthy
drug dealer. This language sinful woman said that what was left profitably manage that made rosaries
pliers wire and glass beads, but serve cobejera between ladies and gallants. Next to the house of God stretched
the filthy beggars several hands, and when people did not spend more shameless insult to the vocabulary,
which exchanged in plaintive cries if some old lady stopped to read
cartelillos of triduums and novenas.

The altar in a forest of burning candles in their racks symmetrically
placed, seemed shaky pyramid of flames, and the powder hand vases
shone like silver in the sun.

Two
carved gilt cherubs holding the stage where it was clear the Lord, girt by the bright rays of
custody, wrapped in the haze of incense and adored by the crowd.

At the top of the altar was a gold star, and at its center a white pigeon. The altar was all clarity:
the light of the world was a refugee in Santa Mesa. The side chapels, the corners were buried in shadow.
In the middle of the ship shone on a group of faithful dropped bluish
glow from above the windows of the cupola, and sometimes when the
wind blew the curtains in the air shone a light blast, which was to
land on the face of an old parchment, or on the face of a pretty woman.

A few moments of silence were, others floating above the atmosphere of this holy area a buzz off
quickly such prayers, and from time to time was heard rolling outward carriages and tolling of bells:
there was a time, lifting the curtain that went in the door, heard
the profane music of an organ playing in the street the toast of
La Traviata.

From the top of the altarpieces
Churrigueresque size statues, trunks turned into saints through art,
seemed to look with pity on the people kneeling, as promoted tight
mass of mingled sounds falling from the chairs, the rustling of silks,
prayer and grumbling about of others.

 I found a great many chests well filled, and one or two of
tools which some years after stood me in a very good stead, though I did not expect they would
ever be of that service when I first met with them.

In this manner I spent my time till I began to see broad daylight again, which cheered me greatly.
I had been often put in hopes during the dark season that ships were coming towards me, and
that I should once more have the conversation of mankind, for I had by the small glimmering
seen many large bodies (to my thinking) move at a little distance from me, and particularly
toward the reappearing of the light, but though I hallooed as loud as I could, and often fired
my gun, I never received an answer.

When the light returned, my days increased in proportion as they had before decreased; and
gathering comfort from that, I determined to launch my small boat and to coast along the island,
as I judged it, to see if it was inhabited and by whom; I determined also to make me some lines
for fishing, and carry my gun to try for other game, if I found a place for landing; for though
I had never, since my arrival, seen a single living creature but my cat, except insects, of
which there were many in the water and in the air before the dark weather, and then began to
appear again, yet I could not but think there were both birds and beasts to be met with.

Upon launching my boat I perceived she was very leaky, so I let her fill and continue thus
a week or more to stop her cracks, then getting down the side of my ship I scooped her quite
dry and found her very fit for use; so putting on board my gun, lines, brandy bottles, and
clothes chest for a seat, with some little water and provisions for a week, I once more committed
myself to the sea, having taken all the observation I could to gain my ship again if any accident
should happen, though I resolved upon no account to quit sight of the rock willingly.

I had not rowed very long before I thought I saw an island to my right about a league distant,
to which I inclined to steer my course, the sea being very calm; but upon surveying it nearer,
I found it only a great cake of ice, about forty yards high above the water and a mile or two
in length. I then concluded that what I had before taken for ships were only these lumps of
ice. Being thus disappointed as to my island, I made what haste I could back to the rock again
and coasted part of its circumference; but though I had gone two or three leagues of its circuit,
the prospect it afforded was just the same.

I then tried my lines by fastening several very long ones, made of the log-line, to the side
of the boat, baiting them with several different baits, but took only one fish of about four
pounds weight, very much resembling a haddock, part of which I dressed for my supper after
my return to the ship, and it proved very good. Towards evening I returned to my home, as I
may call it.

The next day I made a voyage on the other side of the rock, though but to a small distance
from the ship, with intent only to fish, but took nothing. I had then a mind to victual my
boat or little cruiser, and prepare myself for a voyage of two or three days, which I thought
I might safely undertake, as I had never seen a troubled sea since I came to the island; for
though I heard the wind often roaring over my head, yet it coming always from the land-side,
it never disturbed the water near the shore. I set out the same way I went at first, designing
to sail two or three days out and as many home again, and resolved if possible to fathom the
depth as I went. With this view I prepared a very long line with a large shot tied in a rag
at the end of it, by way of plummet, but I felt no ground till the second night The next morning
I came into thirty fathom water, then twenty, then sixteen. In both tours I could perceive
no abatement in the height or steepness of the rock.

In about fourteen fathom water I dropped my lines, and lay by for an hour or two. Feeling several
jars as I sat on my chest in the boat, I was sure I had caught somewhat, so pulling up my lines
successively, I brought first a large eel near six feet long and almost as thick as my thigh,
whose mouth, throat, and fins, were of a fine scarlet, and the belly as white as snow: he was
so strong while in the water, and weighty, I had much ado to get him into the boat, and then
had a harder job to kill him; for though, having a hatchet with me to cut wood in case I met
with any landing-place, I chopped off his head the moment I had him on board, yet he had several
times after that have like to have broken my legs and beat me overboard before I had quite
taken his life from him, and had I not whipped off his tail and also divided his body into
two or three pieces, I could not have mastered him. The next I pulled up was a thick fish like
a tench, but of another colour and much bigger. I drew up several others, flat and long fish,
till I was tired with the sport; and then I set out for the ship again, which I reached the
third day.

During this whole time, I had but one shot, and that was as I came homewards, at a creature
I saw upon a high crag of the rock, which I fired at with ball, fearing that my small shot
would not reach it The animal, being mortally wounded, bounded up, and came tumbling down the
rock, very near me. I picked it up, and found it to be a creature not much unlike our rabbits,
but with shorter ears, a longer tail, and hoofed like a kid, though it had the perfect fluck
of a rabbit I put it into my boat, to contemplate on when I arrived at the ship; and, plying
my oars, got safe, as I said, on the third day.

I made me a fire to cook with as soon as I had got my cargo out of the boat into my ship, but
was under debate which of my dainties to begin upon. I had sometimes a mind to have broiled
my rabbit, as I called it, and boiled some of my fish; but being tired, I hung up my flesh
till the next day, and boiled two or three sorts of my fish, to try which was best. I knew
not the nature of most of them, so I boiled a piece of my eel, to be sure, judging that, however
I might like the others, I should certainly be able to make a good meal of that. This variety
being ready, I took a little of my oil out of the hold for sauce, and sat down to my meal,
as satisfied as an emperor. But upon tasting my several messes, though the eel was rather richer
than the smaller fishes, yet the others were all so good, I gave them the preference for that
time, and laid by the rest of the eel, and of the other fish, till the next day, when I salted
them for future use.

I kept now a whole week or more at home, to look farther into the contents of the ship, bottle
off a cask of Madeira, which I found leaking, and to consume my new stores of fish and flesh,
which, being somewhat stale when first salted, I thought would not keep so well as the old
ones that were on board. I added also some fresh bread to my provision, and sweetened more
water by the aforementioned method; and when my necessary domestic affairs were brought under,
I then projected a new voyage. But as I was very uncertain what time that might take up, I
determined on having provisions, instruments of divers kinds, and necessary utensils in plenty,
to guard against accidents as well as I could. I therefore took another sea-chest out of the
hold of the ship, and letting it into my boat, replenished it with a stock of wine, brandy,
oil, bread, and the like, sufficient for a considerable voyage. I also filled a large cask
with water, and took a good quantity of salt to cure what fish I should take by the way. I
carried two guns, two brace of pistols, and other arms, with ammunition proportionable; also
an axe or two, a saw to cut wood if I should see any, and a few other tools, which might be
highly serviceable if I could land. To all these I added an old sail, to make a covering for
my goods and artillery against the weather. Thus furnished and equipped, having secured my
hatches on board, and everything that might spoil by wet, I set out, with a God's speed, on
my expedition, committing myself once more to Providence and the main ocean, and proceeding
the same way I went the first time.

I did not sail extraordinary fast, but frequently fished in proper places, and caught a great
deal, salting and drying the best of what I took. For three weeks' time and more, I saw no
entrance into the island, as I call it, nor anything but the same unscalable rock. This uniform
prospect gave me so little hopes of landing, that I was almost of a mind to have returned again.
But, on mature deliberation, resolving to go forward a day or two more, I had not proceeded
twenty-four hours, when, just as it was becoming dark, I heard a great noise, as of a fall
of water, whereupon I proposed to lie by and wait for day, to see what it was; but the stream
insensibly drawing me on, I soon found myself in an eddy; and the boat drawing forward beyond
all my power to resist it, I was quickly sucked under a low arch, where, if I had not fallen
flat in my boat, having barely light enough to see my danger, I had undoubtedly been crushed
to pieces or driven overboard. I could perceive the boat to fall with incredible violence,
as I thought, down a precipice, and suddenly whirled round and round with me, the water roaring
on all sides, and dashing against the rock with a most amazing noise.

I expected every moment my poor little vessel would be staved against the rock, and I overwhelmed
with waters; and for that reason never once attempted to rise up, or look upon my peril, till
after the commotion had in some measure ceased. At length, finding the perturbation of the
water abate, and as if by degrees I came into a smoother stream, I took courage just to lift
up my affrighted head; but guess, if you can, the horror which seized me, on finding myself
in the blackest of darkness, unable to perceive the smallest glimmer of light.

However, as my boat seemed to glide easily, I roused myself and struck a light; but if I had
my terrors before, what must I have now! I was quite stupefied at the tremendous view of an
immense arch over my head, to which I could see no bounds; the stream itself, as I judged,
was about thirty yards broad, but in some places wider, in some narrower. It was well for me
I happened to have a tinder-box, or, though I had escaped hitherto, I must have at lust perished;
for in the narrower parts of the stream, where it ran swiftest, there were frequently such
crags stood out from the rock, by reason of the turnings and windings, and such sets of the
current against them, as, could I not have seen to manage my boat, which I took great care
to keep in the middle of the stream, must have thrown me on them, to my inevitable destruction.

Happy it was for me, also, I was so well victualled, and that I had taken with me two bottles
of oil (as I supposed, for I did not imagine I had any more), or I had certainly been lost,
not only through hunger, for I was, to my guess, five weeks in the vault or cavern, but for
want of light, which the oil furnished, and without which all other conveniences could have
been of no avail to me. I was forced to keep my lamp always burning; so, not knowing how long
my residence was to be in that place, or when I should get my discharge from it, if ever, I
was obliged to husband my oil with the utmost frugality; and notwithstanding all my caution,
it grew low, and was just spent, in little above half the time I stayed there.

I had now cut a piece of my shirt for a wick to my last drop of oil, which I twisted and lighted.
I burnt the oil in my brass tobacco-box, which I had fitted pretty well to answer the purpose
Sitting down, I had many black thoughts of what must follow the loss of my light, which I considered
as near expiring, and that, I feared, for ever. I am here, thought I, like a poor condemned
criminal, who knows his execution is fixed for such a day, nay, such an hour, and dies over
and over in imagination, and by the torture of his mind, till that hour comes: that hour, which
he so much dreads! and yet that very hour which releases him from all farther dread! Thus do
I--my last wick is kindled--my last drop of fuel is consuming!--and I am every moment apprehending
the shocks of the rock, the suffocation of the water; and, in short, thinking over my dying
thoughts, till the snuff of my lamp throws up its last curling, expiring flame, and then my
quietus will be presently signed, and I released from my tormenting anxiety! Happy minute!
Come then; I only wait for thee! My spirits grew so low and feeble upon this, that I had recourse
to my brandy bottle to raise them; but, as I was just going to take a sip, I reflected that
would only increase thirst, and, therefore, it were better to take a little of my white Madeira;
so, putting my dram-bottle again into the chest, I held up one of Madeira, as I fancied, to
the lamp, and seeing it was white (for I had red too) I clapped it eagerly to my mouth, when
the first gulp gave me a greater refreshment, and more cheered my heart, than all the other
liquors I had put together could have done; insomuch, as I had almost leaped over the boat's
side for joy. "It is oil!" cried I aloud, "it is oil!" I set it down carefully, with inexpressible
pleasure; and examining the rest of the bottles I had taken for white Madeira, I found two
more of those to be filled with oil. "Now," says I, "here is the counterpart of my condemned
prisoner! For let but a pardon come, though at the gallows, how soon does he forget he has
been an unhappy villain! And I, too, have scarce a notion now, how a man, in my case, could
feel such sorrow as I have for want of a little oil."

After my first transport, I found myself grow serious, reflecting upon the vigilance of Providence
over us poor creatures, and the various instances wherein it interposes to save or relieve
us in cases of the deepest distress, where our own foresight, wisdom, and power have utterly
failed, and when, looking all around, we could discover no means of deliverance. And I saw
a train of circumstances leading to the incident I have just mentioned, which obliged me to
acknowledge the superintendence of Heaven over even my affairs; and as the goodness of God
had cared for me thus far, and manifested itself to me now, in rescuing me, as it were, from
being swallowed up in darkness, I had ground to hope He intended a complete deliverance of
me out of that dismal abyss, and would cause me yet to praise Him in the full brightness of day.

A series of these meditations brought me (at the end of five weeks, as nearly as I could compute
it by my lamp) to a prodigious lake of water, bordered with a grassy down, about half a mile
wide, of the finest verdure I had ever seen: this again was flanked with a wood or grove, rising
like an amphitheatre, of about the same breadth; and behind, and above all, appeared the naked
rock to an immense height.

It is impossible to express my joy at the sight of day once more. I got on the land as soon
as possible after my dismission from the cavern, and, kneeling on the ground, returned hearty
thanks to God for my deliverance, begging, at the same time, grace to improve His mercies,
and that I might continue under His protection, whatever should hereafter befall me, and at
last die on my native soil.

I unloaded my vessel as well as I could, and hauled her up on the shore; and, turning her upside
down, made her a covering for my arms and baggage. I then sat down to contemplate the place,
and eat a most delightful meal on the grass, being quite a new thing to me.

I walked over the greensward to the wood, with my gun in my hand, a brace of pistols in my
girdle, and my cutlass hanging before me; but, when I was just entering the wood, looking behind
me and all around the plain, "Is it possible," says I, "that so much art (for I did not then
believe it was natural) could have been bestowed upon this place, and no inhabitant in it?
Here are neither buildings, huts, castle, nor any living creature to be seen! It cannot be,"
says I, "that this place was made for nothing!"

I then went a considerable way into the wood, and inclined to have gone much farther, it being
very beautiful, but, on second thoughts, judged it best to content myself at present with only
looking out a safe retreat for that night; for, however agreeable the place then seemed, darkness
was at hand, when everything about me would have more or less of horror in it.

The wood, at its first entrance, was composed of the most charming flowering shrubs that can
be imagined; each growing upon its own stem, at so convenient a distance from the other, that
you might fairly pass between them any way without the least incommodity. Behind them grew
numberless trees, somewhat taller, of the greatest variety of shapes, forms, and verdures the
eye ever beheld; each, also, so far asunder as was necessary for the spreading of their several
branches and the growth of their delicious fruits, without a bush, briar, or shrub amongst
them. Behind these, and still on the higher ground, grew an infinite number of very large,
tall trees, much loftier than the former, but intermixed with some underwood, which grew thicker
and closer the nearer you approached the rock. I made a shift to force my way through these
as far as the rock, which rose as perpendicular as a regular building, having only here and
there some crags and unevennesses. There was, I observed, a space all the way between the underwood
and the rock, wide enough to drive a cart in; and, indeed, I thought it had been left for that
purpose.

I walked along this passage a good way, having tied a rag of the lining of my jacket at the
place of my entrance, to know it again at my coming back, which I intended to be ere it grew
dark; but I found so much pleasure in the walk, and surveying a small natural grotto which
was in the rock, that the daylight forsook me unawares: whereupon I resolved to put off my
return unto the boat till next morning, and to take up my lodging for that night in the cave.

I cut down a large bundle of underwood with my cutlass, sufficient to stop up the mouth of
the grotto, and laying me down to rest, slept as sound as if I had been on board my ship; for
I never had one hour's rest together since I shot the gulf till this. Nature, indeed, could
not have supported itself thus long under much labour; but as I had nothing to do but only
keep the middle stream, I began to be as used to guide myself in it with my eyes almost closed,
and my senses retired, as a higgler is to drive his cart to market in his sleep.

The next morning I awaked sweetly refreshed; and, by the sign of my rag, found the way again
through the underwood to my boat I raised that up a little, took out some bread and cheese,
and, having eat pretty heartily, laid me down to drink at the lake, which looked as clear as
crystal, expecting a most delicious draught; but I had forgot it brought me from the sea, and
my first gulp almost poisoned me. This was a sore disappointment, for I knew my water-cask
was nigh emptied; and, indeed, turning up my boat again, I drew out all that remained, and
drank it, for I was much athirst.

However, I did not despair; I was now so used to God's providence, and had a sense of its operations
so riveted in my mind, that though the vast lake of salt water was surrounded by an impenetrable
rock or barrier of stone, I rested satisfied that I should rather find even that yield me a
fresh and living stream, than that I should perish for want of it.

With this easy mind did I travel five or six miles on the side of the lake, and sometimes stepped
into the wood, and walked a little there, till I had gone almost half the diameter of the lake,
which lay in a circular or rather an oval figure. I had then thoughts of walking back, to be
near my boat and lodging, for fear I should be again benighted if I went much farther; but,
considering I had come past no water, and possibly I might yet find some if I went quite round
the lake, I rather chose to take up with a new lodging that night, than to return; and I did
not want for a supper, having brought out with me more bread and cheese than had served for
dinner, the remainder of which was in the lining of my jacket. When it grew darkish, I had
some thoughts of eating; but I considered, as I was then neither very hungry nor dry, if I
should eat it would but occasion drought, and I had nothing to allay that with; so I contented
myself for that night to lay me down supperless.

In the morning I set forward again upon my water search, and hoped to compass the whole lake
that day. I had gone about seven miles more, when, at a little distance before me, I perceived
a small hollow or cut in the grass from the wood to the lake; thither I hasted with all speed,
and blessed God for the supply of a fine fresh rill, which, distilling from several small clefts
in the rock, had collected itself into one stream, and cut its way through the green sod to
the lake.

I lay down with infinite pleasure, and swallowed a most cheering draught of the precious liquid;
and, sitting on the brink, made a good meal of what I had with me, and then drank again. I
had now got five-sixths of the lake's circumference to go back again to my boat, for I did
not suspect any passage over the cavern's mouth where I came into the lake; and I could not,
without much trouble, consider that, if I would have this water for a constant supply, I must
either come a long way for it, or fix my habitation near it. I was just going back again, revolving
these uneasy thoughts in my breast, when this rose suddenly in my mind, that, if I could possibly
get over the mouth of the cavern, I should not have above three miles from my grotto to the
water. Now, as I could not get home that night otherwise than by crossing it, and as, if I
lost my labour, I should be but where I was, whereas if I should get over it, it would very
much shorten my journey, I resolved to try whether the thing was practicable, first, however,
looking out for a resting-place somewhere near my water, if I should meet with a disappointment.

I then walked into the wood, where, meeting with no place of retreat to my liking, I went to
my rill, and taking another sup, determined not to leave that side of the lake till morning;
but having some time to spare, I walked about two miles to view the inlet of the lake, and
was agreeably surprised, just over the mouth of the cavern, to see a large stone arch like
a bridge, as if it had been cut out of the rock, quite across the opening: this cheered me
vastly, and, pushing over it, I found a path that brought me to my boat before night.

I then went up to my grotto for the third night in this most delightful place; and the next
morning early I launched my boat, and taking my water-cask and a small dipping bucket with
me, I rowed away for the rill, and returned highly pleased with a sufficiency of water, whereof
I carried a bucket and a copper kettle full up with me to the grotto. Indeed, it was not the
least part of my satisfaction that I had this kettle with me; for though I was in hopes, in
my last voyage, I should have come to some shore, where I could have landed and enjoyed myself
over some of my fish, and for that reason had taken it, notwithstanding things did not turn
out just as I had schemed, yet my kettle proved the most useful piece of furniture I had.

Having now acquainted myself with the circumference of the lake, and settled a communication
with my rill, I began to think of commencing housekeeper. In order thereunto, I set about removing
my goods up to the grotto. By constant application, in a few days I had gotten all thither
but my two great chests and my water-cask; and how to drag or drive any of those to it, I was
entirely at a loss. My water-cask was of the utmost importance to me, and I had thoughts sometimes
of stopping it close, and rolling it to the place; but the ascent through the wood to the grotto
was so steep, that, besides the fear of staving it, which would have been an irreparable loss,
I judged it impossible to accomplish it by my strength; so with a good deal of discontent,
I determined to remit both that and the chests to future consideration.

This grotto, then, was a full mile from the lake, in the rock which encompassed the wood. The
entrance was scarcely two feet wide, and about nine feet high, rising from the height of seven
feet upward to a point in the middle. The cavity was about fifteen feet long within, and about
five wide. Being obliged to lie lengthwise in it, full six feet of it were taken up at the
farther end for my lodging only, as nothing could stand on the side of my bed that would leave
me room to come at it. The remaining nine feet of the cave's length were taken up, first, by
my fireplace, which was the deepest side of the doorway, ranging with my bed (which I had set
close to the rock on one side), and took up near three feet in length; and my furniture and
provisions, of one sort or other, so filled up the rest, that I had much ado to creep between
them into my bed.

In the chest which I had taken for a seat in the boat, as aforesaid, upon breaking it open
by the water-side, I found a mattress, some shirts, shoes, stockings, and several other useful
things; a small case of bottles with cordials in them, some instruments of surgery, plasters
and salves; all which, together with a large quantity of fish that I had salted, I carried
to the grotto.

My habitation being thus already overcharged, and as I could not, however, bear the thoughts
of quitting it, or of having any of my goods exposed to the weather on the outside, I was naturally
bent on contriving how I should increase my accommodations. As I had no prospect of enlarging
the grotto itself, I could conceive no other way of effecting my desire but by the addition
of an outer room. This thought pleased me very much, so that the next day I set myself to plan
out the building, and trace the foundation of it.

I told you before there was about the space of a cart-way between the wood and the rock clear;
but this breadth, as I was building for life (so I imagined), not appearing to me spacious
enough for my new apartment, I considered how I should extend its bounds into the wood. Hereupon
I set myself to observe what trees stood at a proper distance from my grotto, that might serve
as they stood, with a little management of hewing and the like, to compose a noble doorway,
posts, and supporters; and I found, that upon cutting down three of the nearest trees, I should
answer my purpose in this respect; and there were several others, about twenty feet from the
grotto, and running parallel with the rock, the situation of which was so happily adapted to
my intention, that I could make them become, as I fancied, an out-fence or wall; so I took
my axe and cut down my nearest trees, but as I was going to strike, a somewhat different scheme
presented itself to my imagination that altered my resolution.

In conformity with this new plan, I fixed the height of my intended ceiling, and sawed off
my nearest trees to that, sloping from the sides to the middle, to support cross-beams for
the roof to rest on, and left the trunks standing, by way of pillars, both for the use and
ornament of the structure. In short, I worked hard every day upon my building for a month,
in which time I had cut all my timber into their proper lengths for my outworks and covering,
but was at a great stand how to fix my side-posts, having no spade or mattock, and the ground
almost as hard as flint, for to be sure it had never been stirred since the creation. I then
thought I had the worst part of my job to get over; however, I went on, and having contrived,
in most of my upright side-quarters, to take the tops of trees, and leave on the lower parts
their cleft, where they began to branch out and divide from the main stem, I set one of them
upright against the rock, then laid one end of my long ceiling-pieces upon the cleft of it,
and laid the other end upon a tree on the same side, whose top I had also sawed off with a
proper cleft I then went and did the same on the other side; after this I laid on a proper
number of cross-beams, and tied all very firmly together with the bark of young trees stripped
off in long thongs, which answered that purpose very well. Thus I proceeded, crossing, joining,
and fastening all together, till the whole roof was so strong and firm that there was no stirring
any part of it I then spread it over with small lop wood, on which I raised a ridge of dried
grass and weeds, very thick, and thatched over the whole with the leaves of a tree very much
resembling those of a palm, but much thicker, and not quite so broad; the entire surface, I
might say, was as smooth as a die, and so ordered, by a gentle declivity every way, as to carry
off the wet.

Having covered in my building, I was next to finish and close the walls of it; the skeleton
of these was composed of sticks, crossing one another checker-wise and tied together; to fill
up the voids, I wove upon them the longest and most pliable twigs of the underwood I could
find, leaving only a doorway on one side, between two stems of a tree which, dividing in the
trunk at about two feet from the ground, grew from thence, for the rest of its height, as if
the branches were a couple of trees a little distance from one another, which made a sort of
stile-way to my room. When this was all done, I tempered up some earth by the lake-side, and
mixing it to a due consistence with mud, which I took from the lake, applied it as a plastering
in this manner: I divided it into pieces, which I rolled up of the size of a foot-ball; these
lumps I stuck close by one another on the lattice, pressing them very hard with my hands, which
forced part of them quite through the small twigs, and then I smoothed both sides with the
back of my saw, to about the thickness of five or six inches; so that by this means I had a
wall round my new apartment a foot thick. This plaster-work cost me some time and a great deal
of labour, as I had a full mile to go to the lake for every load of stuff, and could carry
but little at once, it was so heavy; but there was neither water for tempering, nor proper
earth to make it with any nearer. At last, however, I completed my building in every respect
but a door, and for this I was forced to use the lid of my sea chest; which indeed I would
have chosen not to apply that way, but I had nothing else that would, do; and there was, however,
this conveniency, that it had hinges ready fixed thereon.

I now began to enjoy myself in my new habitation, like the absolute and sole lord of the country,
for I had neither seen man nor beast since my arrival, save a few animals in the trees like
our squirrels, and some water-rats about the lake; but there were several strange kinds of
birds I had never before seen, both on the lake and in the woods.

That which now troubled me most was how to get my water nearer to me than the lake, for I had
no lesser vessel than the cask, which held above twenty gallons, and to bring that up was a
fatigue intolerable. My next contrivance, therefore, was this: I told you I had taken my chest-lid
to make a door for my ante-chamber, as I now began to call it; so I resolved to apply the body
of the chest also to a purpose different from that it originally answered. In order to this,
I went to the lake where the body of the chest lay, and sawed it through within about three
inches of the bottom. Of the two ends, having rounded them as well as I could, I made two wheels;
and with one of the sides I made two more. I burnt a hole through the middle of each; then
preparing two axle-trees, I fastened them, after putting on the wheels, to the bottom of the
chest with the nails I had drawn out, of it. Having finished this machine, on which I bestowed
no small labour, I was hugely pleased with it, and only wished I had a beast, if it were but
an ass, to draw it; however, that task I was satisfied to perform myself, since there was no
help for it; so I made a good strong cord out of my fishing-lines, and fixed that to drag it
by. When all was thus in readiness, filling my water-cask, I bound it thereon, and so brought
it to the grotto with such ease, comparatively, as quite charmed me. Having succeeded so well
in the first essay, I no sooner unloaded but down went I again with my cart, or truckle rather,
to the lake, and brought from thence on it my other chest, which I had left entire.

I had now nothing remaining near the lake but my boat, and had half a mind to try to bring
that up too; but having so frequent occasion for her to get my water in, which I used in greater
abundance now than I had done at first, a great part going to supply my domestic uses, as well
as for drinking, I resolved against that, and sought out for a convenient dock to stow it in
as a preservative against wind and weather, which I soon after effected; for having pitched
upon a swampy place, overgrown with a sort of long flags or reeds, I soon cut a trench from
the lake, with a sort of spade or board that I had chopped and sharpened for that use.

Thus having stowed my boat and looked over all my goods and sorted them, and taken a survey
of my provisions, I found I must soon be in want of the last if I did not forthwith procure
a supply; for though I had victualled so well at setting out, and had been very sparing ever
since, yet had it not been for a great quantity of fish I took and salted in my passage to
the gulf, I had been to seek for food much sooner. Hereupon I thought it highly prudent to
look out before I really wanted.

With this resolution I accoutred myself, as in my first walk, with my instruments and arms;
but instead of travelling the lake-side, I went along the wood, and therein found great plenty
of divers kinds of fruits \ though I could scarce persuade myself to taste or try the effects
of them, being so much unlike our own, or any I had seen elsewhere. I observed amongst the
shrubs abundance of a fruit, or whatever else you may call it, which grew like a ram's-horn;
sharp at the point next the twig it was fastened to, and circling round and round, one fold
upon another, which gradually increased to the size of my wrist in the middle, and then as
gradually decreased till it terminated in a point again at the contrary extreme; all which
spiral, if it were fairly extended in length, might be a yard or an ell long. I surveyed this
strange vegetable very attentively; it had a rind, or crust, which I could not break with my
hand, but taking my knife and making an opening therewith in the shell, there issued out a
sort of milky liquor in great quantity, to at least a pint and half, which having tasted, I
found as sweet as honey, and very pleasant: however, I could not persuade myself any more than
just to taste it. I then found on the large trees several kinds of fruit, like pears or quinces,
but most of them exceeding hard and rough, and quite disagreeable; so I quitted my hopes of them.

About three miles from my grotto I met with a large space of ground full of a low plant, growing
only with a single woody stalk half a foot high, and from thence issued a round head, about
a foot or ten inches diameter, but quite flat, about three-quarters of an inch thick, and just
like a cream-cheese standing upon its edge: these grew so close together, that upon the least
wind stirring, their heads rattled against each other very musically; for though the stalks
were so very strong that they would not easily either bend or break, yet the fanning of the
wind upon the broad heads twisting the stalks, so as to let the heads strike each other, they
made a most agreeable sound.

I stood some time admiring this shrub, and then cutting up one of them, I found it weighed
about two pounds; they had a tough green rind or covering, very smooth, and the inside full
of a stringy pulp, quite white. In short, I made divers other trials of berries, roots, herbs,
and what else I could find, but received little satisfaction from any of them for fear of bad
qualities. I returned back ruminating on what things I had seen, resolving to take my cart
the next walk, and bring it home loaded with different kinds of them, in order to make my trials
thereof at leisure: but my cart being too flat and wanting sides, I considered it would carry
very little, and that what it would otherwise bear, on that account, must tumble and roll off,
so I made a fire and turned smith; for with a great deal to do breaking off the wards of a
large key I had, and making it red-hot, I by degrees fashioned it into a kind of spindle, and
therewith making holes quite round the bottom of my cart, in them I stuck up sticks about two
feet high that I had tapered at the end to fit them.

Having thus qualified my cart for a load, I proceeded with it to the wood, and cutting a small
quantity of each species of green, berry, fruit, and flower that I could find, and packing
them severally in parcels, I returned at night heavy-laden, and held a council with myself
what use they could most properly be applied to.

I had amongst my goods, as I said, a copper-kettle which held about a gallon: this I set over
my fire and boiled something by turns of every sort in it, watching all the while, and with
a stick stirring and raising up one thing and then another, to feel when they were boiled tender:
but of upwards of twenty greens which I thus dressed, only one proved eatable, all the rest
becoming more stringy, tough, and insipid for the cooking. The one I have excepted was a round,
thick, woolly-leafed plant, which boiled tender and tasted as well as spinach; I therefore
preserved some leaves of this to know it again by; and for distinction called it by the name
of that herb.

I then began upon my fruits of the pear and quince kind, at least eight different sorts; but
I found I could make nothing of them, for they were most of them as rough and crabbed after
stewing as before, so I laid them all aside. Lastly, I boiled my ram's-horn and cream-cheese,
as I called them, together. Upon tasting the latter of these, it was become so watery and insipid,
I laid it aside as useless. I then cut the other and tasted the juice, which proved so exceeding
pleasant that I took a large gulp or two of it, and tossed it into the kettle again.

Having now gone through the several kinds of my exotics, I had a mind to re-examine them after
cooling, but could make nothing of any of my greens but the spinach. I tried several berries
and nuts too, but, save a few sort of nuts, they were all very tasteless. Then I began to review
the fruits, and could find but two sorts that I had any the least hopes from. I then laid the
best by and threw the others away. After this process, which took me up near a whole day, and
clearing my house of good-for-nothings, I returned to reexamine my cheese, that was grown cold,
and was now so dry and hard I could not get my teeth into it; upon which I was going to skim
it away out of my grotto, saying, "Go, thou worthless!" (for I always spoke aloud my thoughts
to myself)--I say I was just despatching it when I checked my hands, and as I could make no
impression with my teeth, had a mind to try what my knife would do. Accordingly I began at
the edge of the quarter, for I had boiled but a quarter of it, but the rind was grown so hard
and brittle that my knife slipping and raking along the cut edge of it, scratched off some
powder as white as possible; I then scraped it backward and forward some time, till I found
it would all scrape away in this powder, except the rind, upon which I laid it aside again
for farther experiment.

During this review my kettle and ram's-horn had been boiling, till hearing it blubber very
loud, and seeing there was but little liquor in it, I whipped it off the fire, for fear of
burning its bottom, but took no further notice of it till about two hours after; when returning
to the grotto, I went to wash out my kettle, but could scarce get my ram's-horn from the bottom;
and when I did, it brought up with it a sort of pitchy substance, though not so black, and
several gummy threads hanging to it, drawn out to a great length. I wondered at this, and thought
the shell of the ram's-horn had melted, or some such thing, till, venturing to put a little
of the stuff on my tongue, it proved to my thinking as good treacle as I had ever tasted.

This new discovery pleased me very much. I scraped all the sweet thing up, and laid it near
my grotto in a large leaf of one of the trees (about two feet long, and broad in proportion)
to prevent its running about. In getting this curiosity out of my kettle, I found in it a small
piece of my cheese, which I suppose had been broke off in stirring; and biting it (for it was
soft enough) I think it was the most luscious and delicate morsel I ever put into my lips.
This unexpected good fortune put me on trying the best of my pears again; so setting on my
kettle, with very little water, and putting some of my treacle into it, and two of the best
pears quartered, I found, upon a little boiling, they also became an excellent dainty.

Having succeeded so well, I was quite ripe for another journey with my cart; which I accordingly
undertook, taking my route over the stone bridge, to see what the other side of the lake produced.
In travelling through the trees, I met, amongst other things, with abundance of large gourds,
which, climbing the trees, displayed their fruit to the height of twenty or thirty feet above
the ground. I cut a great many of these, and some very large ones of different hues and forms;
which of themselves making a great load, with some few new sorts of berries and greens, were
the gathering of that day. But I must tell you I was almost foiled in getting them home; for
coming to my stone bridge, it rose so steep, and was so much ruggeder than the grass or wood
ground, that I was at a set upon the first entrance and terribly afraid that I should either
break my wheels or pull off my axle-trees. Hereupon I was forced to unload, and carry my cargo
over in my arms to the other side of the bridge; whither having then, with less fear but much
caution, drawn my cart, I loaded again and got safe home.

I was mightily pleased with the acquisitions of this journey; for now, thought I, I shall have
several convenient family utensils; so spent the next day or two in scooping my gourds and
cleaning away the pulp. When I had done this, finding the rinds to be very weak and yielding,
I made a good fire, and setting them round it at a moderate distance to dry, I went about something
else without doors: but, alas! my hopes were ill founded; for coming home to turn my gourds
and see how dry they were, I found them all warped and turned into a variety of uncouth shapes.
This put me to a stand; but, however, I recovered some pieces of them for use, as the bottom
parts of most of them, after paring away the sides, would hold something, though they by no
means answered my first purpose.

Well, thought I, what if I have lost my gourds, I have gained experience. I will dry them next
time with the guts in, and having stiffened their rinds in their proper dimensions, then try
to cleanse them. So next morning (for I was very eager at it) I set out with my cart for another
load; and having handed them over the bridge, got safe with them to the grotto. These by proper
management proved exceedingly valuable to me, answering, in one way or other, the several uses
of plates, bottles, pans, and divers other vessels.

I now got a large quantity of the vegetable ram's-horn, and filled a great many of the gourds
with the treacle it yielded; I also boiled and dried a large parcel of my cheeses, and hung
them up for use, for I had now for some time made all my bread of the latter, scraping and
bruising the flour, and mixing it with my treacle and water; and this indeed made such a sweet
and nourishing bread, that I could even have lived wholly upon it; but I afterwards very much
improved it by putting the milky juice of the ram's-horn, unboiled, to my flour in a small
quantity, and then baking it on the hearth, covered over with embers. This detracted nothing
from the sweetness and mellowness of my bread, but made it much lighter than the treacle alone
would have done.

Finding there was no fear of starving, but so far from it, that from day to day I found out
something new to add to my repast, either in substantials or by way of dessert, I set me down
very well contented with my condition. I had nothing to do but to lay up store against sickness
and the dark weather, which last I expected would soon be upon me, as the days were now exceeding
short. Indeed, though I had now been here six months, I had never seen the sun since I first
entered the gulf; and though there was very little rain, and but few clouds, yet the brightest
daylight never exceeded that of half an hour after sunset in the summer-time in England, and
little more than just reddened the sky. For the first part of my time here, there was but little
if any difference between day and night; but afterwards, what I might call the night, or lesser
degree of light, took up more hours than the greater, and went on gradually increasing as to
time, so that I perceived total darkness approached, such as I had on board my ship the year
before. I went little abroad, and employed myself within doors endeavouring to fence against
the approaching extremity of the cold. For this purpose I prepared a quantity of rushes, which
being very dry, I spread them smoothly on the floor of my bed-chamber a good thickness, and
over them I laid my mattress. Then I made a double sheet of the boat's awning or sail, that
I had brought to cover my goods; and having skewered together several of the jackets and clothes
I found in the chest, of them I made a coverlid; so that I lay very commodiously, and made
very long nights of it now the dark season was set in.

As I lay awake one night, or day, I know not which, I very plainly heard the sound of several
human voices, and sometimes very loud; but though I could easily distinguish the articulations,
I could not understand the least word that was said; nor did the voices seem at all to me like
such as I had anywhere heard before, but much softer and more musical. This startled me, and
I rose immediately, slipping on my clothes and taking my gun in my hand (which I always kept
charged, being my constant travelling companion) and my cutlass. Thus equipped, I walked into
my ante-chamber, where I heard the voices much plainer, till after some little time they by
degrees died quite away. After watching here, and hearkening a good while, hearing nothing,
I walked back into the grotto, and laid me down again on my bed. I was inclined to open the
door of my ante-chamber, but I own I was afraid; besides, I considered that if I did, I could
discover nothing at any distance by reason of the thick and gloomy wood that enclosed me.

I had a thousand different surmises about the meaning of this odd incident; and could not conceive
how any human creatures should be in my kingdom (as I called it) but myself, and I never yet
see them, or any trace of their habitation. But then again I reflected, that though I had surrounded
the whole lake, yet I had not traced the out-bounds of the wood next the rock, where there
might be innumerable grottoes like mine; nay, perhaps some as spacious as that I had sailed
through to the lake; and that though I had not perceived it, yet this beautiful spot might
be very well peopled. But, says I again, if there be any such beings as I am fancying here,
surely they don't skulk in their dens, like savage beasts, by daylight, and only patrole for
prey by night; if so, I shall probably become a delicious morsel for them ere long, if they
meet with me. This kept me still more within doors than before, and I hardly ever stirred out
but for water or firing. At length, hearing no more voices, nor seeing any one, I began to
be more composed in my mind, and at last grew persuaded it was all a mere delusion, and only
a fancy of mine, without any real foundation; and sometimes, though I was sure I was fully
awake when I heard them, I persuaded myself I had rose in my sleep, upon a dream of voices,
and recollected with myself the various stories I had heard when a boy of walking in one's
sleep, and the surprising effects of it; so the whole notion was now blown over.

I had not enjoyed my tranquillity above a week, before my fears were roused afresh, hearing
the same sound of voices twice the same night, but not many minutes at a time. What gave me
most pain was that they were at such a distance, as I judged by the languor of the sound, that
if I had opened my door I could not have seen the utterers through the trees, and I was resolved
not to venture out; but then I determined, if they should come again anything near my grotto,
to open the door, see who they were, and stand upon my defence, whatever came of it: For, says
I, my entrance is so narrow and high that more than one cannot come at a time; and I can with
ease despatch twenty of them before they can secure me, if they should be savages; but if they
prove sensible human creatures, it will be a great benefit to me to join myself to their society.
Thus had I formed my scheme, but I heard no more of them for a great while; so that at length
beginning to grow ashamed of my fears, I became tranquil again.

The day now returning, and with it my labours, I applied to my usual callings; but my mind
ran strangely upon viewing the rock quite round, that is, the whole circuit of my dominions;
for, thinks I, there may possibly be an outlet through the rock into some other country, from
whence the persons I heard may come. As soon therefore as the days grew towards the longest,
I prepared for my progress. Having lived so well at home since my settlement, I did not care
to trust only to what I could pick up in the woods for my subsistence during this journey,
which would not only take up time in procuring, but perhaps not agree with me; so I resolved
to carry a supply with me, proportionate to the length of my perambulation. Hereupon considering
that though my walk round the lake was finished in two days, yet as I now intended to go round
by the rock, the way would be much longer and perhaps more troublesome than that was; remembering
also my journey with Glanlepze in Africa, and how much I complained of the fruits we carried
for our subsistence; these circumstances, I say, laying together, I resolved to load the cart
with a variety of food, bread and fruits especially, and draw that with me.

Thus provided, I sallied forth with great cheerfulness, and proceeded in the main easily; though
in some places I was forced to make way with my hatchet, the ground was so over-run with underwood.
I very narrowly viewed the rock as I went, bottom and sides, all the way, but could see nothing
like a passage through it, or indeed any more than one opening, or inlet, which I entered for
about thirty yards, but it was not above three feet wide, and terminated in the solid rock.

After some days' travel (making all the observations I could on the several plants, shrubs,
and trees which I met with, particularly where any of these occurred to me entirely new), finding
myself a little faintish, I had a mind for a sup of ram's-horn juice; so I cut me one, but
upon opening it found therein only a pithy pulp, and noways fit to taste. I supposed by this
I was too early for the milk, it being three months later the last year when I cut them. Hereon,
seeing one upon another shrub, which by its rusty colour I judged might have hung all the winter,
I opened that, and found it full of milk; but putting some of it into my mouth, it was as sour
as any vinegar I ever tasted in my life. So, thinks I (and said so too; for, as I told you
before, I always spoke out), here's sauce for something when I want it; and this gave me a
hint to store myself with these gourds, to hang by for vinegar the next winter.

By this time I had come almost to my rill, when I entered upon a large plat of ground miserably
over-run with weeds, matted together very thick. These choked up my wheels in such a manner
that I could neither free them with my hands, nor get either backwards or forwards, they binding
my cart down like so many cords; so that I was obliged to cut my way back again with my hatchet,
and take a sweep round in the wood, on the outside of these weeds.

In all my life I never saw anything of its size, for it was no thicker than a whipcord, so
strong as this weed; and what raised my wonder was the length of it, for I drew out pieces
of it near fifty feet long, and even they were broken at the end, so that it might be as long
again for aught I know, for it was so matted and twisted together, that it was a great trial
of patience to untangle it; but that which was driest, and to me looked the rottenest and weakest,
I found to be much the strongest. Upon examination of its parts, I discovered it to be composed
of an infinite number of small threads, spirally overlaying and enfolding one another.

As I saw but few things that I could not find a use for, so this I perceived would serve all
the common purposes of packthread; a thing I was often in want of. This inclined me to take
a load of it home with me. Indeed the difficulty of getting a quantity in the condition I desired
it, puzzled me a little; for, says I, if I cut up a good deal of it with my hatchet, as I first
designed, I shall only have small lengths, good for little, and to get it in pieces of any
considerable length, so as to be of service, will require much time and labour. Both groups were unfair
to the Indians. These were kept in absolute neutrality, surprised that wealthy men like Belinchón,
Miranda and others rushed so much for things that pertained to his private business. That handful
of people calmer, amid fierce fighting that swarmed the village, semejaría the chorus of Greek
tragedies, if not because he felt moved by the misfortune or prosperity of the hero, was glad and
sad. The Indians of Sarrió remained entirely indifferent, lulled by that lazy and orderly life
in which the memory of his labors and burdens of America are sometimes filled with horror, and
made even nicer current situation. What mattered to them the council votes, the dirty tricks that
El Faro and El Joven Sarrio rushed, or the gossip that moved constantly
brought to the villa!

While I dejasen morning spin on the tip of the mole (and there was no danger that strove to
prevent him), playing pool or sitting after dinner, and give his famous gang rides through picturesque
afternoon contours Everything else meant nothing. So they did not care that only by rare chance,
when they were together, spoke of the episodes of the fight. The only thing getting news telegrams
were troubled about the rise and fall of public funds, where they had invested their capital. Moreover,
they were model citizens: Do not offend anyone, ate what was theirs and
had worked with their hands.

That did not give money to the functions and frolic. This can not be regarded as a serious charge.
They did not see the need for such parties. What else would you wish for the world to live in
a mild climate, eating, strolling, sleeping peacefully the hours that one pleases! They had also
made a profit to the people, leading to the altar girls to a portion of twenty-five to thirty, that
without this unexpected emergency, they would have been drained sadly. Now wives were nearly all
obese and quiet, happy mothers, governing a well-stocked home. Although unfriendly to both
sides, the Indians were the only ones who were saved at the incessant shooting newspapers. Were
content to whisper them, call them asses laden with silver, but did not dare to allude publicly.
There was no reason for it.

And why
in Sarrió in the course of three years, had reached that degree of perfection with which Don Rosendo
dreamed, that is, there was no privacy. Acts of the neighbors, even those of a more intimate and
secret came to light in the press, commented, were censored, they got ridiculous. No one was
safe in the tabernacle of your home. If his wife came across some bad words, if punished with more
or less severity for their children, if she was short of money, if he went out at night to
brown peaks, if you choked the ces in the middle of speech, saying,
Duck challenge instead of straight and covenant, if eaten with fingers
or with noise sounded.

Of all these interesting details, they realized the public The Lighthouse and The Young Sarrio, sometimes
directly, sometimes through the famous oriental tales mentioned above. From the Town Hall, Mateo
went to the premises of the Academy, where he awaited the Mr. Anselmo, and wisely ordered
not to leave the band that evening. By dint of transactions and balances, had made so far hold
the same as the Lyceum. In this, of course, neither had already plays, or dancing, but on certain days,
like the Candle, the Carnival and the Santa Engracia.

But Mr. Mateo, a force of business and diplomacy, had managed to get most
of the members continued to pay the two pesetas monthly subscription. All
other recreational institutions that town was so rich, had disappeared.

What brought Tyre Trojans worried at that time was when the Duke of Tornos. The vigilant and prudent
Rosendo had learned through their agents in Madrid, the Duke of Tornos, Count of Buenavista,
related to the royal family, who had been ambassador in France, chief steward of the palace, and
so on., Etc., a character of much bulk in court and in politics, was determined to spend the summer
in Sarrió to take the sea air, which needed a lot, more calmly than in San Sebastian or Biarritz.
Belinchón Know and write a letter offering home, was all one.

The Duke refused, naturally, thanking him very expressive. But the good Don Rosendo he judged
a major triumph for the coming of such a person to his house, and had aided him to exterminate
their opponents, both insisted, using all kinds recommendations for success, that the Duke concluded
by accepting the offer. The Cabin, which had scented the matter and had them with great care, forced
to don Pedro Miranda also offering home, promising to pay between
all the costs that will arise. But the Duke was already committed.
They could not get his way, But there were many influences at play,
which they filled with anger and despair, as we have seen.

Note that the Duke of lathes belonged to the moderate party. Sarrió Although neither side was
well defined in policy, because what concerned them was the local
struggle, and always bowed to the match winner, no doubt that liberals
dominated the Club, beginning with its eminent chief.

In the cabin, were the most backward. The preference given to first, then, was doubly painful.
Don Rosendo last year had raised one story home. What I decided to that work was the birth of
another granddaughter. If marriage was so used, would not fit in the house soon. Gonzalo spoke of taking
another, he lacked independence. In order not to be, the rose her father that way. The entire
floor was assigned to the new family. In order that they were more independent, the ladder did not
go through the room with the parents, but at the same time there was a snail inside that facilitated
the service from one floor to another. Gonzalo could enter and leave the house without having
to cross that of their in-laws. They ate together, however. For when they learned of the acceptance
of the Duke of Tornos, was assigned the entire room the young couple. This went down again to take
their old rooms. Arreglóse even better than it was, and that it was OK, because Venturita had
exaggerated the luxury of the decoration. Quickly and with little effort was turned into a mansion worthy
of the character that would hold.

In the Club is looking forward to the telegram of the nobleman, announcing his departure.'s Face
gatherings all expressed joy and triumph, shone with hope that they may soon give some severe blows
to their opponents. These He wandered alone and wary, hiding, however, the best they could
their spite. Affected not attach importance to the coming of the Duke. There were those who
came to tell Belinchón immediately to the mayor of the left to the music. I was beginning to
eat when he got the news. With admirable serenity, to be envious enemies, found the soup bowl before
him, wiped his lips, took a sip of wine, wiped his lips again, and getting up the next breath, he left
without saying a word.

Like all great leaders of history that speaks to us, Don Rosendo never lost his poise. In critical moments,
such as this, was when he attacked the great ideas, saving decisions. It was the telegraph
and put a hand to the conductor of Lancia asking her to come and to bring Sarrió price. The director
replied that they would arrive at night .-- "Perfectly, - he said - if the music is not going
to receive, at least not be without a serenade. And raging these wretches!
"The arrival of the Duke of Tornos coincided, as we have seen, with
the pilgrimage of San Antonio.

The afternoon was as calm and cheerful in the morning, without a hint of heat, because the breeze
from the Northeast in Sarrió, as in all the ports of Biscay, delightfully cool the heat of the
sun in the summer months. The pilgrimages were from all social classes, but especially to the artisans.
Thanks to this, had not lost any of his original joy and animation. From the morning, very early,
large groups of girls out of the suburbs and across the village to take the road of Lancia, all dressed
with the classic merino skirt, black or color, and the flowered shawl tied to waist, low cut
shoes, pearl earrings, and beautiful head, her hair simply, uncovered. His talk loud, its fresh
laughter woke the neighbors that still lay between the sheets, made them smile, blessed bringing
them to remember other days in San Antonio when youth also sparkled in his eyes and the cup
of life had not yet dropped any drop of gall.

Sarrio Who does not remember any of those trips to the shrine on a morning clear and smooth, with
light legs and heart rocked gently in the hope of soon seeing the beloved owner and spend the day close to it!
The sound of those girls was a breath of joy from the street up to the houses, inviting balconies
came through for a few hours to release the heavy burden of household
chores, ambition, envy, of all the vile passions consume the miserable
human existence.

And go on, go to enjoy the ambience of the morning, the green fields of the rich incomparable milk sold around
the shrine, the game at four corners and the delicious grub, from Havana languid candy candy and
spreaders of the Morana, and perhaps another, when there is a negligible figure and has long
whiskers twisted, their kisses even sweeter and gifted (having done something to deserve them,
that is). Pablito am left with his faithful Pisces, mounted in two vibrant and trained horses,
sometimes working on the right side, sometimes the left as it was logical. To go this way, not
only was the reason for its deep-rooted inclinations, but also very
meritorious one. The young Belinchón was more than a year since I
went to the pilgrimage and to avoid everything possible to walk on foot.
Some went home, especially at night, trying to go through the central
streets, by chance without ever seeing him alone.

He had hidden and bitter enemies. Valentina, the blonde and saladísima seamstress, had sworn
by all the saints in heaven stick a knife in the back. The reason we do not need to tell it.
After having a child with her, had left her and flew again that
free and painted butterfly, alighting now one, now another flower.

Good work had cost him, or rather, good scary! When he heard the oath of her lover, who took him by
surprise, he knew his temper too well to avoid this painful premature death, repeatedly sent
emissaries offering large sums of money, collect and educate your child and support her without
work. The fierce indignation seamstress had rejected all offers. He repeated, each time an ambassador
went to see her, its horrible and bloody oath. Naturally, the handsome young man came to him the
shirt not the body. That put everyone in his case.

I would have given the car and two other horses have eyes on the neck. Those who had, whenever
she went out on foot, were delivered, looks aside, look at another, an overwhelming work beyond
their strength. But over time, had gained some confidence. Valentina did not come just from
home. In processions and dances, after his disgrace, he had not seen anyone. Pablito, who had not yet encountered
on the street, is encouraged with the advice of Pisces to go to San Antonio. Montaron then
riding early, and were launched by the wide, dusty road shaded Lancia
a long way to out of town, by large elms.

The way was up, but without great decline. A side to side, stretching the smiling countryside Sarrió, bounded
by two or three terms of rolling hills. Further, he discovered the black crest of the mountains of Narcine,
which rose over the valley of Lancia, still covered in fog. Looking back, after walking some
distance, the beautiful village is lorded the morning light struck sideways, shining here and there a
white facade. Behind the vast plains of the sea, with the slanting rays of the rising sun, presented
a milky white color. Equites our horses, proud of his appearance elegant, their backs gleaming morbid
continually pranced up clouds of dust, happy to show off their powerful muscles in the light
of the morning. The young artisans, which rose slowly into the chapel, were impatient, screaming,
more dirt from the dust, for fear that the horses were running chufletas for better or worse
like the adamant Pisces, which does not even listened, absorbed in contemplation of the horse's
feet, whose top management was entrusted to him. - Ugh, the road
is too much for him! - Hey, phenomenon, do not raise much dust seems
.-- A horse and a dog sitting .-- If it appears a duke! - No, woman, Vizcon
... from! With Pablito did not get into.

The gallant young exercised the same control over the craft than about the ladies of the town.
Not only was fascinated by her delicate figure, for his gallantry, for his wealth, but also and perhaps
primarily, by their conquests. The crowd love it had in all social classes, formed around his head
a halo of glory. Much of it was whispered among the artisans, to mark the launch of Valentina,
was called false traitor, scoundrel, but all of them, even the same
friends of the victim, admired him, loved him in secret, and had fallen
a few attacks in his arms, though perjured swore and who was well
stupid that if he did miquitrefe.

Pablito
walked serious, attentive also to govern the spirited quadruped. Occasionally, however, deign to smile
very slightly. And this hint of a smile encouraged both girls, who he charged with more verve
and grace to his most faithful companion, unbeaten Piscis. At half
a league soon, there was a large and beautiful flat meadow road that
started in the middle.

There procession celebrating the afternoon, with people coming from the village and returning from
the shrine. To get to it, it was necessary to separate at that point in the road and take by narrow
steep streets, bounded by rough stone boundary walls, covered with
bushes.

After a quarter of a league, was led into the small plateau of a hill, where it was located. The
view from there was beautiful, happy and slim. I discovered a vast stretch of coast, not flat,
but undulating, maize planted in some places, other wheat, in most grass only, cut in large Lancia
dusty road, with its giant elms dark bar, to which end it seemed like a white and red on the town.
The vast sheet of blue ocean, where three or four candles shone as white gulls, closed the scene.
Around the shrine, the old women of the outlines, among which there
were more than a fresh and beautiful village of red lips and cheeks
white satin , sold milk in black clay pouted.

There were also several tables covered with tablecloths, where biscuits and other sweets displayed
in antiquity. The grace of pilgrimage that lay in drink milk in the morning in the chapel,
then play with the pots and break them at last, making them rolling down the hill. We ate at
noon the luncheon which was carried. Then he came to the meadow of
walnut or Nozaleda, where everyone gathered. Pablito not infringe one
iota for the program. He bought more than a dozen pots of milk and
lots of biscuits, with which he presented to his known. Then frolicked
with them at length, by rolling a number on the lawn and throwing
himself in the middle of the excitement.

At the time, was "making points" to a very graceful brunette,
daughter of serene Maroto, who sold fish in the square and called Ramona, the
same person to whom the reader may recall that Periquito had said
in the pan theater : - "Ramona, I love you" - to the delight of Pisces
and Paul.

When it was time to come to the Nozaleda, insisted on taking a horse
before him.

The girl resisted a little, but finally yielded , was not to give in! The young man came in with her
pilgrimage through the applause and cheers! of his friends and the gossip of girls, who were
shocked, subject to wrest left of that gentle way that the beautiful day Sultan was pleased. At three,
the Nozaleda was full of pilgrims. The vast lawn like a carpet of green background. The handkerchiefs
of the women, whites, reds, yellows, stirring constantly, calling the sunlight, formed on a drawing
that background moving in brilliant colors. The road sent every minute Sarrió new platoons of people who
were scattered across the meadow formation on each side. We heard a confused murmur of the waves
as the sea at a distance, over which are the sharp jump of the bagpipe,
and the dull and monotonous rattle of the drum.

Some tents, where, on tables portable table, lay the swollen skins, as victims prepared to sacrifice,
were surrounded by large groups of men. In another more numerous, of both sexes, to the middle,
danced to the use of the country, playing the castanets with the
changes peculiar to that region.

That masquerade lasted five or six hours without any rest. Was sweating
profusely, but tiring! Once men, women ever.

Those who danced were villagers and the inhabitants of the contours that, at nightfall, they returned
to their homes by the cuts without going through the village. The artisans were giraldillas
Sarrió where belting out injured, opening and closing on, leaving in the middle now a group
of men, now women. The young men in relation to those young people dancing in the schools, already
accustomed to the sweet, would not lose his right of monopoly or even outdoors, also came with
them, dancing without grace, with arms and legs wide open motionless. Then came the artisans
and walked a little further to dance with those who, neglected by knights, or savage temperament, the
continued, casting baleful glances of defiance to the main chorus. Not establishing either missing
the dance that evening of society. Don Mateo, seeking to replace half of the orchestra, had a
harpist and violinist Italians, and subsidized, in particular pocket,
so touched.

And there, at one end of the meadow, under a huge walnut tree on
the tape that surrounded it, a dozen couples embrace, whirling to
the beat of sweet parsimonious Havana, surrounded by a thick circle
of onlookers.

The ladies used to attend that dance with scornful laugh crudely imitating his own, grieving inside
that so fine young embraced "those Tarascan. However, when someone invited them, after they
resisted a little, laugh out loud, blushing and making good portion of goodies to attest that
only downgraded to that of pure indulgence, they would hold firm to the arm of his prankster
friend and slow to release . Gonzalo had come on foot to the festival
with Cecilia, the older girl and the nanny.

And as the road was long and outstanding, because it does not get so tired, had brought his
daughter in his arms most of the time. Ventura hated the pilgrimages. Besides, his father
had brought the carriage to wait for the Duke of lathes, and think that they walked half a league,
was a monstrosity. Dona Paula could not come.


This, thinks I, is an amazing adventure. How could Patty come here, and dressed in silk and
whalebone too? Sure that is not the reigning fashion in England now? But my dream said she
was dead. Why, truly, says I, so she seems to be. But be it so; she is warm. Whether this is
the place for persons to inhabit after death or not, I can't tell (for I see there are people
here, though I don't know them); but be it as it will, she feels as flesh and blood; and if
I can but bring her to stir and act again as my wife, what matters it to me what she is? It
will be a great blessing and comfort to me; for she never would have come to this very spot
but for my good.

Top-full of these thoughts, I re-entered my grotto, shut my door and lighted my lamp; when
going to my Patty (as I delighted to fancy her), I thought I saw her eyes stir a little. I
then set the lamp farther off for fear of offending them if she should look up; and warming
the last glass I had reserved of my Madeira, I carried it to her, but she never stirred. I
now supposed the fall had absolutely killed her, and was prodigiously grieved; when laying
my hand on her breast I perceived the fountain of life had some motion. This gave me infinite
pleasure; so, not despairing, I dipped my finger in the wine and moistened her lips with it
two or three times, and I imagined they opened a little. Upon this I bethought me, and taking
a teaspoon, I gently poured a few drops of the wine by that means into her mouth. Finding she
swallowed it, I poured in another spoonful, and another, till I brought her to herself so well
as to be able to sit up. All this I did by a glimmering light which the lamp afforded from
a distant part of the room, where I had placed it, as I have said, out of her sight.

I then spoke to her, and asked divers questions, as if she had really been Patty and understood
me; in return of which she uttered a language I had no idea of, though in the most musical
tone, and with the sweetest accent I ever heard. It grieved me I could not understand her.
However, thinking she might like to be on her feet, I went to lift her off the bed, when she
felt to my touch in the oddest manner imaginable; for while in one respect it was as though
she had been cased up in whalebone it was at the same time as soft and warm as if she had been
naked.

I then took her in my arms and carried her into my ante-chamber again, where I would fain have
entered into conversation, but found she and I could make nothing of it together, unless we
could understand one another's speech. It is very strange my dream should have prepossessed
me so of Patty, and of the alteration of her countenance, that I could by no means persuade
myself the person I had with me was not she; though, upon a deliberate comparison, Patty, as
pleasing as she always was to my taste, would no more come up to this fair creature than a
coarse ale-wife would to Venus herself.

You may imagine we stared heartily at each other, and I doubted not but she wondered as much
as I by what means we came so near each other. I offered her everything in my grotto which
I thought might please her; some of which she gratefully received, as appeared by her looks
and behaviour. But she avoided my lamp, and always placed her back toward it. I observing that,
and ascribing it to her modesty in my company, let her have her will, and took care to set
it in such a position myself as seemed agreeable to her, though it deprived me of a prospect
I very much admired.

After we had sat a good while, now and then, I may say, chattering to one another, she got
up and took a turn or two about the room. When I saw her in that attitude, her grace and motion
perfectly charmed me, and her shape was incomparable; but the strangeness of her dress put
me to my trumps to conceive either what it was, or how it was put on.

Well, we supped together, and I set the best of everything I had before her, nor could either
of us forbear speaking in our own tongue, though we were sensible neither of us understood
the other. After supper I gave her some of my cordials, for which she showed great tokens of
thankfulness, and often in her way, by signs and gestures, which were very far from being insignificant,
expressed her gratitude for my kindness. When supper had been some time over, I showed her
my bed and made signs for her to go to it; but she seemed very shy of that, till I showed her
where I meant to lie myself, by pointing to myself, then to that, and again pointing to her
and to my bed. When at length I had made this matter intelligible to her, she lay down very
composedly; and after I had taken care of my fire, and set the things I had been using for
supper in their places, I laid myself down too; for I could have no suspicious thoughts or
fear of danger from a form so excellent.

I treated her for some time with all the respect imaginable, and never suffered her to do the
least part of my work. It was very inconvenient to both of us only to know each other's meaning
by signs; but I could not be otherwise than pleased to see that she endeavoured all in her
power to learn to talk like me. Indeed I was not behindhand with her in that respect, striving
all I could to imitate her. What I all the while wondered at was, she never showed the least
disquiet at her confinement; for I kept my door shut at first, through fear of losing her,
thinking she would have taken an opportunity to run away from me; for little did I then think
she could fly.

CHAPTER XV.

After my new love had been with me a fortnight, finding my water run low, I was greatly troubled
at the thought of quitting her any time to go for more; and having hinted it to her, with seeming
uneasiness, she could not for a while fathom my meaning; but when she saw me much confused,
she came at length, by the many signs I made, to imagine it was my concern for her which made
me so; whereupon she expressively enough signified I might be easy, for she did not fear anything
happening to her in my absence. On this, as well as I could declare my meaning, I entreated
her not to go away before my return. As soon as she understood what I signified to her by actions,
she sat down, with her arms across, leaning her head against the wall to assure me she would
not stir. However, as I had before nailed a cord to the outside of the door, I tied that for
caution's sake to the tree, for fear of the worst: but I believe she had not the least design
of removing.

I took my boat, net, and water-cask, as usual, desirous of bringing her home a fresh fish dinner,
and succeeded so well as to catch enough for several good meals, and to spare. What remained
I salted, and found she liked that better than the fresh, after a few days' salting; though
she did not so well approve of that I had formerly pickled and dried. As my salt grew very
low, though I had been as sparing of it as possible, I now resolved to try making some; and
the next summer I effected it.

Thus we spent the remainder of the winter together, till the days began to be light enough
for me to walk abroad a little in the middle of them; for I was now under no apprehensions
of her leaving me, as she had before this time had so many opportunities of doing so, but never
once attempted it.

I must here make one reflection upon our conduct, which you will almost think incredible, viz.,
that we two, of different sexes, not wanting our peculiar desires, fully inflamed with love
to each other, and no outward obstacle to prevent our wishes, should have been together, under
the same roof alone for five months, conversing together from morning to night (for by this
time she pretty well understood English, and I her language), and yet I should never have clasped
her in my arms, or have shown any further amorous desires to her than what the deference I
all along paid her could give her room to surmise. Nay, I can affirm that I did not even then
know that the covering she wore was not the work of art, but the work of nature, for I really
took it for silk; though it must be premised that I had never seen it by any other light than
of my lamp. Indeed the modesty of her carriage and sweetness of her behaviour to me had struck
into me such a dread of offending her, that though nothing upon earth could be more capable
of exciting passion than her charms, I could have died rather than have attempted only to salute
her without actual invitation.

When the weather cleared up a little by the lengthening of daylight, I took courage one afternoon
to invite her to walk with me to the lake; but she sweetly excused herself from it, whilst
there was such a frightful glare of light, as she said; but looking out at the door, told me,
if I would not go out of the wood she would accompany me: so we agreed to take a turn only
there. I first went myself over the stile of the door, and thinking it rather too high for
her, I took her in my arms and lifted her over. But even when I had her in this manner, I knew
not what to make of her clothing, it sat so true and close; but seeing by a steadier and truer
light in the grove, though a heavy gloomy one, than my lamp had afforded, I begged she would
let me know of what silk or other composition her garment was made. She smiled, and asked me
if mine was not the same under my jacket "No, lady," says I, "I have nothing but my skin under
my clothes."--"Why, what do you mean?" replies she, somewhat tartly; "but indeed I was afraid
that something was the matter by that nasty covering you wear, that you might not be seen.
Are you not a glumm?"*--"Yes,"says I, "fair creature." (Here, though you may conceive she spoke
part English, part her own tongue, and I the same, as we best understood each other, yet I
shall give you our discourse, word for word, in plain English.) "Then," says she, "I am afraid
you must have been a very bad man, and have been crashee,** which I should be very sorry to hear."

     * A  man.

     ** Slit.

I told her I believed we were none of us so good as we might be, but I hoped my faults had
not at most exceeded other men's; but I had suffered abundance of hardships in my time; and
that at last Providence having settled me in this spot, from whence I had no prospect of ever
departing, it was none of the least of its mercies to bring to my knowledge and company the
most exquisite piece of all His works, in her, which I should acknowledge as long as I lived. Then the
handsome young man, just outraged, but forgetting about the state of obfuscation that was all
the articles of the code of gallantry, unloaded a slap in the face of his mistress and then another,
then another ... in short, a sopimpa than regular. The graceful craft was left by her lover patiently
run the scale, without the slightest sign of resistance, even to dodge the blows. When Pablito stopped
and asked with delicious naturalness: - Have you finished yet? -
For now ... But I feel like starting again! - Roared the youth, blind
with rage. - Then start when you like.

I have
to wear the all without moving.

     

But I warn you hit me or hit me, I do what I said when I see you
talking to that ... Now take me dancing again. - I will not. - Well,
you take me anywhere you can fix your hair, because I've undone.

The young man had to compromise her into the coffee of the Star, but not be thinking about the
conquests way you were going a bit expensive. A few days later he had even better reason to
have this discussion.

It was in the Barber Madrid, where he used to shave and groom their
hair often.

With his first groom, entered it and sat on a couch waiting time.
- If you like, sir - he said at a pale boy with slight black mustache,
returning the seat of gutta-percha and looking across.

Pablito
and walked casually dropped into the armchair with this elegant languor taken at the hairdressers
those whom Providence said with a flash of superiority.

The boy's face smeared with soap.

The young Belinchón, with the precious head tilted back, waited radiant majesty that was stripped
of the black shadow that stained her cheeks.

His eyes
closed softly to better perceive the vague and poetic thoughts that crossed his mind. Whenever
the block brought back his head full of ideas.

Cross your legs stretched under the table, and his gloved hands hanging from the arms of his chair
with the same elegance as the legs. - Fernando - he said aloud the artist who was going to shave
calling one of his companions . - What do you want, Cosme? This name made her shudder without knowing
why Pablito. He opened his eyes and ran a long, hungry look at the hairdresser. Did not know him. There
must be new to the establishment. This, rather than reassure, forced him to change position several
times, abandoning his usual time majesty and languor. - Can you give me the knife have been emptied
today? - There goes . Fernando Cosme reached over and picked up the knife. A vague desire to get
up born in the spirit of Pablito.

But before he could take shape, the hairdresser had taken him by the nose and began to scrape.
After a few moments in which our young under her long lashes followed
with anxious eyes the movements of the artist's hand, it will he said
quietly, folding her lips into a smile that stretched disproportionately
affected his mouth: - You are the master of Belinchón, right? - Yes
- articulated. - I know you long time - explained the barber with
the same voice off and still smiling .-- Oh, yes, long ago!



When we came far enough to see the bridge, "There, madam," says I, "there is my entrance, where
the sea pours into this lake from yonder cavern."--"It is not possible," says she; "this is
another untruth; and as I see you would deceive me, and are not to be believed, farewell; I
must be gone. But, hold," says she, "let me ask you one thing more; that is, by what means
did you come through that cavern? You could not have used to have come over the rock?"--"Bless
me, madam!" says I, "do you think I and my boat could fly? Come over the rock, did you say?
No, madam; I sailed from the great sea, the main ocean, in my boat, through that cavern into
this very lake here."--"What do you mean by your boat?" says she. "You seem to make two things
of your boat you say you sailed with and yourself."--"I do so," replied I; "for, madam, I take
myself to be good flesh and blood, but my boat is made of wood and other materials."--"Is it
so?" says she. "And, pray, where is this boat that is made of wood and other materials?--under
your jacket?"--"Lord, madam!" says I, "you put me in fear that you were angry; but now I hope
you only joke with me. What, put a boat under my jacket! No, madam; my boat is in the lake."--"What,
more untruths?" says she.--"No, madam," I replied; "if you would be satisfied of what I say
(every word of which is as true as that my boat now is in the lake), pray walk with me thither
and make your own eyes judges what sincerity I speak with." To this she agreed, it growing
dusky; but assured me, if I did not give her good satisfaction, I should see her no more.

We arrived at the lake; and going to my wet-dock, "Now, madam," says I, "pray satisfy yourself
whether I spake true or no." She looked at my boat, but could not yet frame a proper notion
of it. Says I, "Madam, in this very boat I sailed from the main ocean through that cavern into
this lake; and shall at last think myself the happiest of all men if you continue with me,
love me, and credit me; and I promise you I'll never deceive you, but think my life happily
spent in your service." I found she was hardly content yet to believe what I told her of my
boat to be true; till I stepped into it, and pushing from the shore, took my oars in my hand,
and sailed along the lake by her, as she walked on the shore. At last she seemed so well reconciled
to me and my boat, that she desired I would take her in. I immediately did so, and we sailed
a good way; and as we returned to my dock I described to her how I procured the water we drank,
and brought it to shore in that vessel.

"Well," says she, "I have sailed, as you call it, many a mile in my lifetime, but never in
such a thing as this. I own it will serve very well where one has a great many things to carry
from place to place; but to be labouring thus at an oar when one intends pleasure in sailing,
is in my mind a most ridiculous piece of slavery."--"Why, pray, madam, how would you have me
sail? for getting into the boat only will not carry us this way or that without using some
force."--"But," says she, "pray, where did you get this boat, as you call it?"--"O madam!"
says I, "that is too long and fatal a story to begin upon now; this boat was made many thousand
miles from hence, among a people coal-black, a quite different sort from us; and, when I first
had it, I little thought of seeing this country; but I will make a faithful relation of all
to you when we come home." Indeed, I began to wish heartily we were there, for it grew into
the night; and having strolled so far without my gun, I was afraid of what I had before seen
and heard, and hinted our return; but I found my motion was disagreeable to her, and so I dropped
it.

I now perceived and wondered at it, that the later it grew the more agreeable it seemed to
her; and as I had now brought her into good-humour again by seeing and sailing in my boat,
I was not willing to prevent its increase. I told her, if she pleased, we would land, and when
I had docked my boat, I would accompany her where and as long as she liked. As we talked and
walked by the lake, she made a little run before me and sprung into it Perceiving this, I cried
out, whereupon she merrily called on me to follow her. The light was then so dim, as prevented
my having more than a confused sight of her when she jumped in; and looking earnestly after
her, I could discern nothing more than a small boat in the water, which skimmed along at so
great a rate that I almost lost sight of it presently; but running along the shore for fear
of losing her, I met her gravely walking to meet me, and then had entirely lost sight of the
boat upon the lake. "This," says she, accosting me with a smile, "is my way of sailing, which,
I perceive, by the fright you were in, you are altogether unacquainted with; and, as you tell
me you came from so many thousand miles off, it is possible you may be made differently from
me: but, surely we are the part of the creation which has had most care bestowed upon it; and
I suspect, from all your discourse, to which I have been very attentive, it is possible you
may no more be able to fly than to sail as I do."--"No, charming creature," says I, "that I
cannot, I'll assure you." She then, stepping to the edge of the lake, for the advantage of
a descent before her, sprung up into the air, and away she went farther than my eyes could
follow her.

I was quite astonished. "So," says I, "then all is over! all a delusion which I have so long
been in! a mere phantom! Better had it been for me never to have seen her, than thus to lose
her again! But what could I expect had she stayed? For it is plain she is no human composition.
But," says I, "she felt like flesh, too, when I lifted her out at the door!" I had but very
little time for reflection; for, in about ten minutes after she had left me in this mixture
of grief and amazement, she alighted just by me on her feet.

Her return, as she plainly saw, filled me with a transport not to be concealed; and which,
as she afterwards told me, was very agreeable to her. Indeed, I was some moments in such an
agitation of mind from these unparalleled incidents, that I was like one thunder-struck; but
coming presently to myself, and clasping her in my arms with as much love and passion as I
was capable of expressing, and for the first time with any desire,--"Are you returned again,
kind angel," said I, "to bless a wretch who can only be happy in adoring you? Can it be, that
you, who have so many advantages over me, should quit all the pleasures that nature has formed
you for, and all your friends and relations, to take an asylum in my arms? But I here make
you a tender of all I am able to bestow--my love and constancy."--"Come, come," says she, "no
more raptures; I find you are a worthier man than I thought I had reason to take you for, and
I beg your pardon for my distrust whilst I was ignorant of your imperfections; but now I verily
believe all you have said is true; and I promise you, as you have seemed so much to delight
in me, I will never quit you till death, or other as fatal accident shall part us. But we will
now, if you choose, go home; for I know you have been some time uneasy in this gloom, though
agreeable to me: for, giving my eyes the pleasure of looking eagerly on you, it conceals my
blushes from your sight."

In this manner, exchanging mutual endearments and soft speeches, hand in hand, we arrived at
the grotto; where we that night consummated our nuptials, without farther ceremony than mutual
solemn engagements to each other; which are, in truth, the essence of marriage, and all that
was there and then in our power.

Every calm is succeeded by a storm, as is every storm by its calm; for, after supper, in order
to give my bride the opportunity of undressing alone, which I thought might be most agreeable
the first night, I withdrew into the antechamber till I thought she was laid; and then, having
first disposed of my lamp, I moved softly towards her, and stepped into bed too; when, on my
nearer approach to her, I imagined she had her clothes on. This struck a thorough damp over
me; and asking her the reason of it, not being able to touch the least bit of her flesh but
her face and hands, she burst out a-laugh-ing; and, running her hand along my naked side, soon
perceived the difference she before had made such doubt of between herself and me. Upon which
she fairly told me, that neither she, nor any person she had ever seen before, had any other
covering than what they were born with, and which they would not willingly part with but with
their lives. This shocked me terribly; not from the horror of the thing itself, or any distaste
I had to this covering (for it was quite smooth, warm, and softer than velvet or the finest
skin imaginable), but from an apprehension of her being so wholly encased in it, that, though
I had so fine a companion, and now a wife, yet I should have no conjugal benefit from her,
either to my own gratification, or the increase of our species.

In the height of my impatience I made divers essays for unfolding this covering, but unsuccessfully.
Surely, says I, there must be some way of coming at my wishes, or why should she seem so shy
of me at first, and now we are under engagements to each other, meet me half way with such
a yielding compliance? I could, if I had had time to spare, have gone on, starting objections
and answering them, in my own breast, a great while longer (for I now knew not what to make
of it); but being prompted to act as well as think, and feeling, as tenderly as possible, upon
her bosom, for the folds or plaits of her garment, she lying perfectly still, and perceiving
divers flat broad ledges, like whale-bone, seemingly under her covering, which closely enfolded
her body, I thought it might be all laced on together somewhat like stays, and felt behind
for the lacing.

At length, perceiving me so puzzled, and beyond conception vexed at my disappointment, of asudden,
lest I should grow outrageous (which I was almost come to), she threw down all those seeming
ribs flat to her side so imperceptibly to me, that I knew nothing of the matter, though I lay
close to her; till putting forth my hand again to her bosom, the softest skin, and most delightful
body, free from all impediment, presented itself to my wishes, and gave itself up to my embraces.

I slept very soundly till morning, and so did she; but at waking I was very solicitous to find
out what sort of being I had had in my arms, and with what qualities her garment was endued,
or how contrived that, notwithstanding all my fruitless attempts to uncover her, she herself
could so instantaneously dispose of it undiscerned by me. Well, thought I, she is my wife,
I will be satisfied in everything; for surely she will not now refuse to gratify my curiosity.

We rose with the light; but surely no two were ever more amorous, or more delighted with each
other. I, being up first, lighted the fire, and prepared breakfast of some fish soup, thickened
with my cream-cheese; and then calling her, I kept my eye towards the bed to see how she dressed
herself; but throwing aside the clothes, she stepped out ready dressed, and came to me. When
I had kissed her, and wished her a good day, we sat down to breakfast; which being soon over,
I told her I hoped every minute of our lives would prove as happy as those we so lately passed
together; which she seemed to wish with equal ardour. I then told her, now she was my wife,
I thought proper to know her name, which I had never before asked, for fear of giving uneasiness;
for, as I added, I did not doubt she had observed in my behaviour, ever since I first saw her,
a peculiar tenderness for her, and a sedulous concern not to offend, which had obliged me hitherto
to stifle several questions I had to ask her whenever they would be agreeable to her. She then
bid me begin; for as she was now my wife, whilst I was speaking it became her to be all attention,
and to give me the utmost satisfaction she could in all I should require, as she herself should
have so great an interest in everything for the future which would oblige me.

Compliments (if, in compliance with old custom, I may call them so, for they were by us delivered
from the heart) being a little over on both sides, I first desired to know what name she went
by before I found her: "For," says I, "having only hitherto called you madam, and my lady,
besides the future expression of my love to you in the word dear, I would know your original
name, that so I might join it with that tender epithet."--"That you shall," says she, "and
also my family at another opportunity; but as my name will not take up long time to repeat
at present, it is Youwarkee. And pray," says she, "now gratify me with the knowledge of yours."--"My
dear Youwarkee," says I, "my name was Peter Wilkins when I heard it last; but that is so long
ago, I had almost forgot it. And now," says I, "there is another thing you can give me a pleasure
in."--"You need, then, only mention it, my dear Peter," says she.--"That is," says I, "only
to tell me if you did not, by some accident, fall from the top of the rock over my habitation,
upon the roof of it, when I first took you in here; and whether you are of the country upon
the rocks?"--She, softly smiling, answered, "My dear Peter, you run your questions too thick.
As to my country, which is not on the rocks, as you suppose, but at a vast distance from hence,
I shall leave that till I may hereafter, at more leisure, speak of my family, as I promised
you before; but as to how I came into this grotto, I knew not at first, but soon perceived
your humanity had brought me in, to take care of me, after a terrible fall I had; not from
the rock, as you suppose, for then I must not now have been living to enjoy you, but from a
far less considerable height in the air. I'll tell you how it happened. A parcel of us young
people were upon a merry swangean* round this arkoe,** which we usually divert ourselves with
at set times of the year, chasing and pursuing one another, sometimes soaring to an extravagant
height, and then shooting down again with surprising precipitancy, till we even touch the trees;
when of a sudden we mount again and away."

     * Flight.

     ** Water surrounded with a wood.

"I say, being of this party, and pursued by one of my comrades, I descended down to the very
trees, and she after me; but as I mounted, she over-shooting me, brushed so stiffly against
the upper part of my graundee* that I lost my bearing; and being so near the branches before
I could recover it again, I sunk into the tree, and rendered my graundee useless to me; so
that down I came, and that with so much force, that I but just felt my fall, and lost my senses.
Whether I cried out or no upon my coming to the ground, I cannot say; but if I did, my companion
was too far gone by that time to hear or take notice of me; as she, probably, in so swift a
flight, saw not my fall. As to the condition I was in, or what happened immediately afterwards,
I must be obliged to you for a relation of that; but one thing I was quickly sensible of, and
never can forget, viz., that I owe my life to your care and kindness to me."

     * The covering and wings of skin they flew with. 

In the face of the Duke had come earthy some color. By the head must pass serious ideas and sad,
but not really spent more than the following: "This woman is giving me a lesson." - I'm sorry,
madam - said expression pride - you have caused a disappointment
... But I'm so used to the public is fixed in my actions and tell
your taste, that such talk and those newsletters that you just talk,
I will not cause the slightest discomfort.

The little ones come from the superiority of the large, muttering about
them. It is eternal law is not to contradict. - That's all very well,
Mr. Duke. A figure as high as you can not get the complaints of the
people ... But to us it is very different. We are not placed at that
height and evil tongues, believe me we do a lot of damage ...-- Dona
Paula innocently replied that it was deeply ironic.

El Duque a little impatient, playing nervously with his hat in her hand, said - I say I'm sorry,
ma'am.

If I had known that my innocent attentions to her daughter could be interpreted so viciously,
I would have saved well to lavish ... In future try to be more cautious ... But my God - he
said, laughing .-- How is it possible to imagine that a man of my age can look at a girl as Ventura,
but with fatherly eyes?

     There in the background, he felt flattered that assumption. - Oh! Mr.
Duke, the men of the position you are never old.

Brightness really attracts women ... That's why you is not enough
to suppress or older and be cautious.

It is necessary to remove any pretext to gossip world ... The Duke grew suddenly pale. He hesitated
a moment and finally said: - Leaving me in this house, right? - That was coming to ask for - she
said without looking up, with poor intonation. Don Jaime was paler . He gave a tour of the room
with clenched hand crumpling Turkish cap, let out a sarcastic laugh,
and returning to stand in front of Dona Paula, said with mock arrogance:
- "So, madam, I check you in your home? - Me, Mr. Duke?

... What an idea!

... What I want is to restore calm only my children, and avoid a crash ... - What crash? - Said
the Duke, through whose eyes became dimmed lightning incident. Dona Paula sensed a danger to
his son, and hastened to amend the imprudence. - The shock of my
son-in with the scoundrels who seek to insult ... Look, Duke, if the
appeal takes bad I just do, go wrong a lot ... We're so honored by
your stay in our house, nothing has caused us so much pride as their
preference ... My husband has diligently sought, and received great
joy when he learned that you had accepted his invitation ... How can
anyone imagine that I do not find satisfaction in my house taking
a person so high, I'm a poor village woman, the daughter of a sailor,
the granddaughter of a watchman, to whom all the village called La
Serena, as called my mother and my grandmother?

... Truth as if it had been a few years ago, would be more proud
... The disappointments, sorrows, will carve the pride ... But anyway
I'm very happy, and only the fear of the great disappointments that
can come to my children, I was forced to take this step ... you will
forgive me ... Don Jaime took another walk around the room, stopped
in the middle to meditate for a moment, and concluded by making a
gesture of disdain with the lips, raising his shoulders.

Then came to Dona Paula and asked: - Does your husband is aware of
the step you just gave? - No, sir ... and I am glad that everything
could be arranged without his knowledge ... - Perfectly.

Even today you will be pleased. - Oh, Mr. Duke! Many thanks ... You
know forgive ...-- said he, rising and spreading to the hands.

Magnate
deeply inclined simply unanswered. - I beg you not be angry with me ... - I just mentioned will be
secret between us . Seeking out ways that nobody suspected the reason for my departure. Make sure
you play this role.

I answer mine.

Dona Paula left the room escorted by the Duke, who fired at the door with an exaggerated and silent
reverence.

When you reach the stairs the lady anxiously, breathed freely.

Even at the expense of, those painful emotions, deeply glad to have settled
the matter without scandal and safely.

And with light foot, she crawled, and ordinarily
to walk because of his illness, was to communicate to Gonzalo result of
the visit. At lunchtime, the Duke said it had received a letter from
one of his children in that news would come to spend the month of
September with him Sarrio. Would probably also his brother the Marquis
del Riego. On this occasion expressed their resolve to take rooms at the
inn. Instantly he was upset with great warmth by Don Rosendo, with
the support of his wife. Venturita had turned white. He looked at the
Duke in a particular way. Gonzalo, with downcast eyes, his face grim,
ate in silence while disputing. Despite all the reasons that Don
Rosendo claimed to hold him, informing it that the house was able to
welcome the new guests, the disgust that he and his whole family was so unexpected
that cause them up, etc., Etc., Duke was adamant. Responded with the
same smile protective as it manifested itself, and kept repeating
phrases of gratitude and friendship.

Convinced at last that was useless
to insist, the illustrious Don Rosendo as troubled, it was with the
Duke and his secretary to see rooms the inn of the Star, the only decent
that was in the town. rented the entire first floor.

The next day he moved tycoon, despite the vivid depictions of his
host for her to stay at least until the others arrived.

Was quite surprised that the population
transfer.

And said to the cause, and though
Don Rosendo dutifully reported everyone of what had happened, could
not be taken to avoid the public that any doubt or suspicion that
things had not gone quite as Belinchón the related.

Particularly given his enemies great joy.

     They engaged with zeal in deciphering this puzzle, thinking, not
unreasonably, that the Club could no longer use force to fight the
Duke.
     

Within two months it was odd to remain in Sarrio Rosendo's friends had managed to prosper in court
a complaint against the mayor, upon the permission of the governor
of the province had been "laying down" the postmaster it was the Cabin,
which was resolved in his favor "the problem of the slaughterhouse."

Maza's friends, who were downcast and dejected, received the news
like a fly, next to die in the fall, receives a late ray of sun .

Holy God what hot comments that night in the cabin!

Much guess! Joy sparkled in every eye. Were opened nostrils sniffing the fall of the Club, and the
next and final victory.

The Young Sarrio its first issue published in the following laconic, but possessed press release: "On
Monday has been moved to the main floor rooms of the Hotel de la
Estrella His Excellency the Duke of Tornos, Count of Buenavista, who
was staying at home Don Rosendo Belinchón.

We give the Duke the most accomplished egregious congratulations. " This comment was unworthy
of the noble sick for two days Belinchón, after which he sent his seconds to Maza. But he replied
that while he was in authority could not fight.

When you cease to be so he would see if it was wise to cross arms with "similar mess." As godparents
answered in bad taste, it threatened to take them to jail, and had
to retire.

The Duke of Tornos continued to visit from time to time the home of Don Rosendo and letting
accompanied by him and his friends whenever you went out . In appearance, the friendship between
them remained unchanged. The few people who were in fair Sarrió was thinking that there was no mystery
in its translation and it was all ridiculous imaginations of the Cabin, who were blinded by
the desire to conquer their opponents.

However, days passed, he had entered in September, and neither the child nor the tycoon's brother
had just arrived. This had greatly improved Sarrió health, he said to those who approached
him. He did bring Madrid coach and horses and bought a nice fishing sloop. He seemed disposed to spend
some months in the village. In its external relations with the family Belinchón, that is, when he
was with her in public, watched a sensitive and affectionate behavior, as people who had plenty
of care.

With Venturita was not allowed so many relatives, but never stopped talking
in the theater or walk a loving way. So did lose track of tracking down the
cause of his departure from the house. Dona Paula was very satisfied
with this behavior.

Gonzalo himself, realizing that he could not demand more, they showed him attentive and polite.
The peace had been reborn among the young couple.

Venturita,
after a few days when her husband did not change a word and appeared pale and scowling, wounded,
no doubt, by the violence they had deployed at the scene described above, again what once cheerful
and talkative at times, angry and capricious others, always sharp and sarcastic speech. He noted,
however, Gonzalo some kindness and unusual in her deference. He blamed the desire to erase
the memory of one passenger, but very dangerous annoyance had. And so it went gliding calm days
at the home of Don Rosendo, only disturbed by the ups and downs that the disease suffered from Dona
Paula. No sooner was stands as in bed. He left by car for long walks with Cecilia or Ventura, and used
to take her granddaughter Cecily, whom he adored. Don Rufo spoke of the need to move to another climate,
another country high above sea level, where the air had less pressure. And Don Rosendo, reluctantly,
for the thought of exterminating their opponents and once again make the happiness of his native
city, constantly haunted him, was entering for the idea and drawing vaguely useful and grandiose
plans and all his family. Floated in his mind the project happy Lighthouse Sarrió move to Madrid
and do it everyday with the title of "The Light of the Provinces. To defend the moral and material
interests of the provinces, autonomous life sustaining, independent, against the action and absorbing
power of the capital, "outbreak of filth that poisoned the sap of
the nation and all the springs dried wealth." What great and noble
thoughts! In late October, Gonzalo went to Lancia with a committee
of his father.

It was to persuade a banker of that town, lest they alienate the shares held in a Sarrió pier, to
a certain individual in the cabin, as saying. In any case, they are the same price cede at Don
Rosendo. It had been two days I was there. On the third afternoon, around the time of dusk, he
came up to Dona Paula to visit his daughter Ventura, that since the transfer of the Duke had
come to occupy the second floor. Very rarely was making for the good
lady the spiral staircase.

But that day was more agile, better off the chest. He wanted to prove their strength and give itself
a proof that was better. The phone immediately went to take his granddaughter Cecilita a doll
whose dress she had torn the girl sewing . The steps were made very high. Arriving half had to stop
for breath. When he reached the floor, said in the loudest voice he could: - Cecily, daughter, where
are you? - Here, Grandma, here - said the girl out of the residence of his mother. It was a creature
that even had not complied with the three year old blonde as gold, as talkative and spontaneous,
that the grandmother had on real fascination. - What I taels, Grandma,
what I taels? - asked, looking eagerly at Dona Paula, after of having
embraced by the legs with such force that almost gives her ground.
- The doll, beautiful, you have fixed the chacha. - Doll not ... Lalin
wrist pa ... I'm Gande ... I want a pussy. - I have no cunt here,
my life - watching her grandmother replied enraptured. - Tene mom
pussy ... Come ... give me one.

And took her by the clothes her mother's boudoir. He went on the girl, looked surprised and looked
everywhere.

Ventura had come to receive them with a smile on the lips, gently kissing his mother: - Jesus,
what first steps! How have you decided? ... I do not know if you will want to climb stairs, Mom
... Are you okay? - I have not worn much. I think I'm better. The Dehaud pills, I think I tested
well. - Well, I'm glad we have finally come up with a drug that produces an effect ... Will
you sit? - Grandma, give me a pussy - interrupting the girl said. - I have, my dear ... Do you
have any candy, Ventura - No. - Jame Tene is here. Venturita was horribly pale. - Jame What girl? - Asked
Dona Paula. - No, no, any silly ... "So you have tried it the pills?

... If Don Rufo, however they say, means ... Go if you understand! - Ventura hastened to say in
a trembling voice, the face so upset that his mother looked surprised. - Jame is here ... Tene
pussy ... Come on, Grandma. The girl pulled the dress to Madame. This pale and too vaguely guessing
something terrible, was carried away not knowing what he did. - Cecilia! - Ventura shouted in a strange
voice he had never heard his mother. But the girl ignored. Continued dragging his grandmother into
the bedroom.

Before reaching the door, she was presented at the Duke of Tornos.
Dona Paula, before this sudden appearance, he was nailed to the floor
a moment, his face white and frightened, looked shocked.

Then he fell heavily to the floor, dragging in the fall to his granddaughter. The Duke hastened
to lift it. Then, with an imperious gesture of Ventura, left it on the couch and fled. To the voices
of the young, attended by servants and then Cecilia. It thought it was a heart attack caused by fatigue.
Transportósela to his bed, where after, thanks to the care of Cecilia, he regained consciousness.
But the power of speech. The poor lady could no longer utter a word. That was two days without the
efforts of Don Rufo, or those of another doctor who came from Lancia, we got in that language
movement, which had been paralyzed. Generally, I was with my eyes closed, breathing slight moans.
Only when Ventura entered the room opened to the nail in it with a fixed expression of anguish
and counterclaim. The priest who was called, was forced to confess
by signs. Two days later, almost at the same time that had happened
the fatal scene, died unhappy lady, that even in the hour of death
took his eyes clouded the face of Ventura.

XVII GONZALO THAT TAKES A SERIOUS RESOLUTION AND OTHER CECILIA The
family took refuge in Tejada Belinchón to live alone with their pain,
for some time.

Dona Paula was mourned as he deserved, for his magnanimous husband. Giving respite to the progressive
and reformist spirit that inspired him, he showed tender and sensitive, which in no way diminishes
its glory as a publicist. Cecilia never tired in a long time to mourn her good mother, with whom
the relationship of linking both the meat and the soul. Of all his children, this was more like kept with it,
though not preferred. The favorite, Paul, all I felt deeply that he could feel something in
the world. It is said that, some days after the event, saw the foal that was purchased last achieved
in the trot, and did not affect him much. But who made that sudden death especially strange and
terrible effect, was in Venturita. Both impressed, which was a few
days in bed with high fever.

After healed, veíasela pale and sad. Distracted answer to what he said, did not leave the room rarely,
despite the request of her husband. This feeling was so vivid as it was unexpected for him
a taste of what Cecilia and Dona Paula always maintained, that is,
that Venturita was crazy, capricious and proud, but good in the background.

Some such consideration was mitigated with the sincere pain experienced
the death of his mother-in.

The last and maternal service that will provide good lady, had put
the seal of the affection that his conduct prudent and loving, was
able to inspire.

The Duke of Tornos returned to Madrid, shortly after the unfortunate occurrence to his friends. From there,
written with Don Rosendo, who forced more than one service in the
relentless struggle against his enemies that kept the Cabin.

These services were crowned, after some time, a great cross of Isabella the Catholic. While the
diploma, he referred the diamond magnate plate, which may not descended
from twenty thousand pieces.

Can anyone imagine the excitement and gratitude of Don Rosendo, to
receive this most honorable distinction.

As no one had Sarrió a large cross, was obliged to go to Lancia,
for a knight of the order carry out the ceremony of girding him with
the band.

And so they saw a knight, he who profess a certain disdain positive
metaphysical religions, took a procession from the parish to carry
the lantern, with beautiful plaque on the chest and the band above
the coat.'s Friends swallowed Maza a lot of gall.

Then he
vomited, not only in his coterie of the Cabin, but in the newspaper,
where, seriously and in jest, wronged in a manner repugnant to the
glorious founder of Lighthouse Sarrio.

     

In some caustic, fierce newsletters, you were seeing the mayor bilious
pen in hand.

Don Rosendo, for the first time in his life, read these diatribes without emotion, a sincere
disdain. Because, when it has reached the pinnacle of human societies,
threats must seem more curious than pygmies offensive.

Venturita out on this occasion, his dark slumber. He had completed one of the most cherished dreams.
He took part in the joy and triumph of his father, and began to be
seen several days in the village, always in coach, of course.

He grew his pride and languor stately, imposing, he did die of envy and rage for the ladies and
girls of the village, who retaliated by calling their contempt, their
hours of gossip, "the princess of Cod."

The death of his mother, whom everyone had known Sarrió craft, "with a handkerchief tied back" as
there was said, contributed as much as the great cross of his father
to raise the social status of the family, aristocratizarla, so to
speak.

Ventura, with his dismissive demeanor, with its delicious dressed
with contemptuous coldness with which she treated her acquaintances,
beautifully avenged that poor woman, whom the ladies of Sarrió both
had suffered in life.

He spent the Tejada winter, a harsh winter, as few had been.

A long rain seasons, and this made it impossible to leave.

Sometimes cruelly froze.

The sky remained calm, but the fields in the morning, appeared white,
with a middle finger frost thickness.

Sometimes also snowed heavily.

All these weather phenomena have their charms in the village for those who can find them. Gonzalo
was born to live happily in the middle of the fluctuations of nature.
If chilled, rose at dawn and left shocked the home out into the corridor
in his shirt sleeves, wash your entire body with water that is made
out of marble basins, after breaking the ice.

Then, dressed in a Light hunting dress,
took the shotgun, and went on celebrities, huge raids of six and
eight leagues, no one heard him, never complaining of fatigue.

If snow, put on waterproof boots and the hair cap, and went to kill pigeons or porridge in the vicinity
of possession.

More than once have fallen into tanks attacked with snow, making
out, with only extraordinary vigor.

When it rained there was no choice but to stay home.

But even then unknown pleasures offered by the village in the town. He washed the trees and plants
was pleasing to the eye.

The dark green of conifers, after several days of rain, took on tones thanks to the shoots pointing
at the top of the branches instead frost the withered instantly. The leaves of magnolias shone
like glass, and in that atmosphere watery colors, the nuances of
nature constantly changing, the outlines of trees and mountains desvahaían
gently exquisite.

And the same monotony of constantly falling water on the trees with a sad rumor, engenders a happy
sleepiness, not devoid of pleasure for those who have nothing to
do outside the home, and find in it the comforts and refinements that
civilization provides rich.

It was nice to hear the peep, peep of shivering sparrows, sheltered by the hundreds on a Washingtonia
had close to home, as in a large aviary: it was nice to go to feed the exotic animals Rosendo had
on his farm, saving in clogs the distance from their shelters in the house was also pleased to
stay asleep in an armchair at the foot of the chimney with a cigarette in his mouth and the bottle
of rum in front, while Cecilia was reading an interesting story or a few verses and harmonious
sound . Don Pablo Rosendo and every day they would invariably Sarrió after lunch and went to
lunch. The one was busy directing the public followed the paths of
moral and material progress, with shortage of 'reptiles crawling
through the mire, powerless to lift a moment to the realm of ideas,
spitting their venom at anyone who stands for the intelligence or
virtue.

" It goes without saying who these reptiles to Don Rosendo frequently alluded in his articles.
The other, always trying to tilt the eyes and hearts of many beautiful strangers came to the
village, to his lovely person.

Some morning went hunting with his brother, but noting that the weather
tanned his face, left almost entirely this year.

On the other hand, Pisces was born enemy of him.

For this intelligent centaur was glad everything on earth under the horses. In the afternoon, when
it rained, if Ventura was in good spirits, playing with Cecilia Gonzalo ombre. If not, played the last
two tute hand in hand with the girls sitting in their respective laps, which bothered them
all the time carrying their little hands at cards. Both were of good pasta and gently pushing
content to.
 I lay tumbling and tossing
in great anxiety, not able to find out any excusable occasion she could have of so long absence.
And then, thinks I, if she should either be dead, or have quite left me, which will be of equally
bad consequence to me, what can I do with three poor helpless infants? If they were a little
more grown up, they might be helpful to me and to each other; but at their age how shall I
ever rear them without the tenderness of a mother? And to see them pine away before my face,
and not know how to help them, will distract me.

Finding I could neither sleep nor lie still, I rose, intending to search all the woods about,
and call to her, that if any accident had prevented sight of her she might at least hear me.
But upon opening the door, and just stepping out, how agreeably was I surprised to meet her
coming in, with something on her arm. "My dear Youwarkee," says I, "where have you been? What
has befallen you to keep you out so long? The poor children have been at their wits' end to
find you; and I, my dear, have been inconsolable, and was now, almost distracted, coming in
search of you." Youwarkee looked very blank, to think what concern she had given me and the
children. "My dearest Peter," says she, kissing me, "pray forgive me the only thing I have
ever done to offend you, and the last cause you shall ever have, by my good will, to complain
of me; but walk within doors, and I will give you a farther account of my absence. Don't you
remember what delight I took the other day to hear you talk of your ship?"--"Yes," says I,
"you did so; but what of that?"--"Nay, pray," says she, "forgive me, for I have been to see
it."--"That's impossible," says I; and truly this was the first time I ever thought she went
about to deceive me.--"I do assure you," says she, "I have; and a wonderful thing it is! But
if you distrust me, and what I say, I have brought proof of it; step out with me to the verge
of the wood, and satisfy yourself."--"But pray," says I, "who presented you with this upon
your arm?"--"I vow," says she, "I had forgot this: yes, this will, I believe, confirm to you
what I have said."--I turned it over and over; and looking wistfully upon her, says I, "This
waistcoat, indeed, is the very fellow to one that lay in the captain's locker in the cabin"--"Say
not the very fellow," says she, "but rather say the very same, for I'll assure you it is so;
and had you been with me, we might have got so many things for ourselves and the children,
we should never have wanted more, though we had lived these hundred years; but as it is, I
have left something without the wood for you to bring up." When we had our talk out, she, hearing
the children stir, took them up, and was going, as she always did, to get their breakfasts.
"Hold," says I, "this journey must have fatigued you too much already; lay yourself to rest,
and leave everything else to me."--"My dear," says she, "you seem to think this flight tiresome,
but you are mistaken; I am more weary with walking to the lake and back again, than with all
the rest. Oh," says she, "if you had but the graundee, flying would rest you, after the greatest
labour; for the parts which are moved with exercise on the earth, are all at rest in flight;
as, on the contrary, the parts used in flight are when on earthly travel. The whole trouble
of flight is in mounting from the plain ground; but when once you are upon the graundee at
a proper height, all the rest is play, a mere trifle; you need only think of your way, and
incline to it, your graundee directs you as readily as your feet obey you on the ground, without
thinking of every step you take; it does not require labour, as your boat does, to keep you
a-going."

After we had composed ourselves, we walked to the verge of the wood, to see what cargo my wife
had brought from the ship. I was astonished at the bulk of it; and seeing, by the outside,
it consisted of clothes, I took it with much ado upon my shoulders and carried it home. But
upon opening it, I found far more treasure than I could have imagined; for there was a hammer,
a great many spikes and nails, three spoons, about five plates of pewter, four knives and a
fork, a small china punchbowl, two chocolate cups, a paper of needles, and several of pins,
a parcel of coarse thread, a pair of shoes, and abundance of such other things as she had heard
me wish for and describe; besides as much linen and woollen, of one sort or another, as made
a good package for all the other things; with a great tin porridge-pot, of about two gallons,
tied to the outside; and all these as nicely stowed as if she had been bred a packer.

When I had viewed the bundle, and poised the weight, "How was it possible, my dear You-warkee,"
said I, "for you to bring all this? You could never carry them in your hands."--"No, no," replied
she, "I carried them on my back."--"Is it possible," says I, "for your graundee to bear yourself
and all this weight too in the air, and to such a height as the top of these rocks?"--"You
will always," replies she, "make the height a part of your difficulty in flying; but you are
deceived, for as the first stroke (I have heard you say often) in fighting is half the battle,
so it is in flying; get but once fairly on the wind, nothing can hurt you afterwards. My method,
let me tell you, was this; I climbed to the highest part of the ship, where I could stand clear,
having first put up my burden, which you have there; and then getting that on my back near
my shoulders, I took the two cords you see hang loose to it in my two hands, and extending
my graundee, leaped off flatwise with my face towards the water; when instantly playing two
or three good strokes with my graundee, I was out of danger; now, if I had found the bundle
too heavy to make my first strokes with, I should directly have turned on my back, dropped
my bundle, and floated in my graundee to the ship again, as you once saw me float on the lake."
Says I, "You must have flown a prodigious distance to the lake, for I was several days sailing,
I believe three weeks, from my ship, before I reached the gulf; and after that could be little
less than five weeks (as I accounted for it), and at a great rate of sailing too under the
rock, before I reached the lake; so that the ship must be a monstrous way off." "No, no," says
she, "your ship lies but over yon cliff, that rises as it were with two points; and as to the
rock itself, it is not broader than our lake is long; but what made you so tedious in your
passage was many of the windings and turnings in the cavern returning in to themselves again;
so that you might have gone round and round till this time, if the tide had not luckily struck
you into the direct passage: this," says she, "I have heard from some of my countrymen, who
have flown up it, but could never get quite through."

"I wish with all my heart," says I, "fortune had brought me first to light in this country;
or (but for your sake I could almost say) had never brought me into it at all; for to be a
creature of the least significancy, of the whole race but one, is a melancholy circumstance."--"Fear
not," says she, "my love, for you have a wife will hazard all for you, though you are restrained;
and as my inclinations and affections are so much yours, that I need but know your desires
to execute them as far as my power extends, surely you, who can act by another, may be content
to forego the trouble of your own performance. I perceive, indeed," continued she, "you want
mightily to go to your ship, and are more uneasy now you know it is safe than you was before;
but that being past my skill to assist you in, if you will command your deputy to go backwards
and forwards in your stead, I am ready to obey you."

Thus ended our conversation about the ship for that time. But it left not my mind so soon;
for a stronger hankering after it pursued me now than ever since my wife's flight, but to no
purpose.

We sat us down and sorted out our cargo, piece by piece; and having found several things proper
for the children, my wife longed to enter upon some piece of work towards clothing Pedro in
the manner she had heard me talk of, and laid hard at me to show her the use of the needles,
thread, and other things she had brought. Indeed I must say she proved very tractable; and
from the little instruction I was able to give her, soon out-wrought my knowledge; for I could
only show her that the thread went through the needle, and both through the cloth to hold it
together; but for anything else I was as ignorant as she. In much less time than I could have
imagined, she had clothed my son Pedro, and had made a sort of mantle for the youngest. But
now seeing us so smart (for I took upon me sometimes to wear the green waistcoat she had brought
under my dirty jacket), she began to be ashamed of herself, as she said, in our fine company;
and afterwards (as I shall soon acquaint you) got into our fashion.

Seeing the advantages her flight to the ship, and that so many conveniences arose from it,
she was frequently at me to let her go again. I should as much have wished for another return
of goods as she, but I could by no means think of parting with my factor; for I knew her eagerness
to please me, and that she would stick at nothing to perform it. And, thinks I, should any
accident happen to her, by over-loading or otherwise, and I should lose her, all the other
commodities of the whole world put together would not compensate her loss. But as she so earnestly
desired it, and assured me she would run no hazards, I was prevailed on at length, by her incessant
importunities, to let her go; though under certain restrictions which she promised me to comply
with. As first, I insisted upon it that she should take a tour quite round the rock, setting
out the same way I had last gone with my boat; and, if possible, find out the gulf, which I
told her she could not mistake, by reason of the noise the fall of the water made; and desired
her to remark the place, so as I might know within-side where it was without. And then I told
her she might review and search every hole in the ship as she pleased; and if there were any
small things she had a mind to bring from it, she was welcome, provided the bundle she should
make up was not above a fourth part either of the bulk or weight of the last. All which she
having engaged punctually to observe, she bade me not expect her till I saw her, and she would
return as soon as possible.

I told you before, I had seen her graundee open, and quite extended as low as her middle; but
that being in the grotto by lamplight, I could not take so just a survey as now, when the sort
of light we ever had was at the brightest.

She first threw up two long branches or ribs of the whalebone, as I called it before (and indeed
for several of its properties, as toughness, elasticity, and pliableness, nothing I have ever
seen can so justly be compared to it), which were jointed behind to the upper bone of the spine,
and which, when not extended, lie bent over the shoulders on each side of the neck forwards,
from whence, by nearer and nearer approaches, they just meet at the lower rim of the belly
in a sort of point; but when extended, they stand their whole length above the shoulders, not
perpendicularly, but spreading outwards, with a web of the softest and most pliable and springy
membrane that can be imagined, in the interstice between them, reaching from their root or
joint on the back up above the hinder part of the head, and near half-way their own length;
but when closed, the membrane falls down in the middle upon the neck, like a handkerchief.
There are also two other ribs rising as it were from the same root, which, when open, run horizontally,
but not so long as the others. These are filled up in the interstice between them and the upper
ones with the same membrane; and on the lower side of this is also a deep flap of the membrane,
so that the arms can be either above or below it in flight, and are always above it when closed.
This last rib, when shut, flaps under the upper one, and also falls down with it before to
the waist, but is not joined to the ribs below. Along the whole spine-bone runs a strong, flat,
broad, grisly cartilage, to which are joined several other of these ribs; all which open horizontally,
and are filled in the interstices with the above membrane, and are jointed to the ribs of the
person just where the plane of the back begins to turn towards the breast and belly; and, when
shut, wrap the body round to the joints on the contrary side, folding neatly one side over
the other. At the lower spine are two more ribs, extended horizontally when open, jointed again
to the hips, and long enough to meet the joint on the contrary side cross the belly; and from
the hip-joint, which is on the outermost edge of the hip-bone, runs a pliable cartilage quite
down the outside of the thigh and leg to the ankle; from which there branch out divers other
ribs horizontally also when open, but when closed, they encompass the whole thigh and leg,
rolling inwards cross the back of the leg and thigh till they reach and just cover the cartilage.
The interstices of these are also filled up with the same membrane. From the two ribs which
join to the lower spine-bone, there hangs down a sort of short apron, very full of plaits,
from hip-joint to hip-joint, and reaches below the buttocks, half-way or more to the hams.
This has also several small limber ribs in it. Just upon the lower spine-joint, and above the
apron, as I call it, there are two other long branches, which, when close, extend upon the
back from the point they join at below to the shoulders, where each rib has a clasper, which
reaching over the shoulders, just under the fold of the uppermost branch or ribs, hold up the
two ribs flat to the back like a V, the interstices of which are also filled up with the aforesaid
membrane. This last piece, in flight, falls down almost to the ankles, where the two claspers
lapping under each leg within-side, hold it very fast; and then also the short apron is drawn
up by-the strength of the ribs in it, between the thighs forward, and covers the pudenda and
groin as far as the rim of the belly. The whole arms are covered also from the shoulders to
the wrist with the same delicate membrane, fastened to ribs of proportionable dimensions, and
jointed to a cartilage on the outside in the same manner as on the legs.

It is very surprising to feel the difference of these ribs when open and when closed; for,
closed, they are as pliable as the finest whalebone, or more so, but when extended, are as
strong and stiff as a bone. They are tapering from the roots, and are broader or narrower as
best suits the places they occupy, and the stress they are put to, up to their points, which
are almost as small as a hair. The membrane between them is the most elastic thing I ever met
with, occupying no more space, when the ribs are closed, than just from rib to rib, as flat
and smooth as possible; but when extended in some postures, will dilate itself surprisingly.
This will be better comprehend by the plates, where you will see several figures of glumms
and gawrys in different attitudes, than can be expressed by words.

As soon as my wife had expanded the whole graundee, being upon plain ground, she stooped forward,
moving with a heavy wriggling motion at first, which put me into some pain for her; but after
a few strokes, beginning to rise a little, she cut through the air like lightning, and was
soon over the edge of the rock and out of my sight.

It is the most amazing thing in the world to observe the large expansion of this graundee when
open; and when closed (as it all is in a moment upon the party's descent) to see it sit so
close and compact to the body, as no tailor can come up to it; and then the several ribs lie
so justly disposed in the several parts, that instead of being, as one would imagine, a disadvantage
to the shape, they make the body and limbs look extremely elegant; and by the different adjustment
of their lines on the body and limbs, the whole, to my fancy, somewhat resembles the dress
of the old Roman warriors in their buskins; and, to appearance, seems much more noble than
any fictitious garb I ever saw, or can frame a notion of to myself.

Though these people, in height, shape, and limb, very much resemble the Europeans, there is
yet this difference, that their bodies are rather broader and flatter, and their limbs, though
as long and well shaped, are seldom as thick as ours. And this I observed generally in all
I saw of them during a long time among them afterwards; but their skin, for beauty and fairness,
exceeds ours very much.

My wife having now taken her second flight, I went home, and never left my children till her
return; this was three days after our parting. I was in bed with my little ones when she knocked
at the door. I soon let her in, and we received each other with a glowing welcome. The news
she brought me was very agreeable. She told me she first went and pried into every nook in
the ship, where she had seen such things, could we get at them, as would make us very happy.
Then she set out the way I told her to go, in order to find the gulf. She was much afraid she
should not have discovered it, though she flew very slow, that she might be sure to hear the
waterfall and not over-shoot it. It was long ere she came at it; but when she did, she perceived
she might have spared most of her trouble, had she set out the other way; for, after she had
flown almost round the island, and not before, she began to hear the fall, and upon coming
up to it, found it to be not above six minutes' flight from the ship. She said the entrance
was very narrow, and, she thought, lower than I represented it; for she could scarce discern
any space between the surface of the water and the arch-way of the rock. I told her that might
happen from the rise or fall of the sea itself. But I was glad to hear the ship was no farther
from the gulf; for my head was never free from the thoughts of my ship and cargo. She then
told me she had left a small bundle for me without the wood, and went to look after her children.
I brought up the bundle, and though it was not near so large as the other, I found several
useful things in it, wrapped up in four or five yards of dark blue woollen cloth, which I knew
no name for, but which was thin and light, and about a yard wide. I asked her where she met
with this stuff; she answered, where there was more of it, under a thing like our bed, in a
cloth like our sheet, which she cut open, and took it out of.--"Well," says I, "and what will
you do with this?"--"Why, I will make me a coat like yours," says she, "for I don't like to
look different from my dear husband and children."--"No, Youwarkee," replied I, "you must not
do so; if you make such a jacket as mine, there will be no distinction between glumm and gawry;*
the gowren praave,** in my country, would not on any account go dressed like a glumm; for they
wear a fine flowing garment called a gown, that sits tight about the waist, and hangs down
from thence in folds, like your barras, *** almost to the ground, so that you can hardly discern
their feet, and no other part of their body but their hands and face, and about as much of
their neck and breasts as you see in your graundee."

     * Man and woman.

     ** Modest women.

     ***The back flap of the graundee.

Youwarkee seemed highly delighted with this new-fancied dress, and worked day and night at
it against the cold weather. Whilst she employed herself thus, I was busied in providing my
winter stores, which I was forced to do alone now, herself and children taking up all my wife's
time. About a fortnight after she had begun mantua-making, she presented herself to me one
day, as I came from work, in her new gown; and, truly, considering the scanty description I
had given her of such a garment, it appeared a good comely dress. Though it had not one plait
about the body, it sat very tight thereto, and yet hung down full enough for a countess; for
she would have put it all in (all the stuff she had) had there been as much more of it. I could
see no opening before, so asked her how she got it on. She told me she laid along on the ground,
and crept through the plaits at the bottom, and sewed the body round her after she had got
her hands and arms through the sleeves. I wondered at her contrivance; and, smiling, showed
her how she should put it on, and also how to pin it before: and after she had done that, and
I had turned up about half a yard of sleeve, which then hung down to her fingers' ends, I kissed
her, and called her my country-woman; of which, and her new gown, she was very proud for a
long time. I know not whether my rustling or what had disturbed it; but I let her pass, and
she ran away before me. When she was fairly out of sight, I stepped up, and found she had a
nest and sixteen eggs there. I exactly marked the place, and taking away one of the eggs, I
broke it, at some distance from the nest, to see how forward they were; and I had no sooner
broke the shell but out came a young chicken. I then looked into the nest again, and taking
up more of the eggs, I found them all just splintered in the shell, and ready for hatching.
I had immediately a desire to save them, and bring them up tame; but I was afraid if I took
them away before they were hatched, and a little strengthened under the hen, they would all
die; so I let them remain till next day. In the meanwhile I prepared some small netting of
such a proper size as I conceived would do, and with this I contrived, by fastening it to stakes
which I fixed in the ground, to surround the nest, and me on the outside of it. All the while
I was doing this, the hen did not stir, so that I thought she had either been absent when I
came, or had hatched and gone off with the young ones. As to her being gone I was under no
concern; for I had no design to catch her, but only to confine the chickens within my net if
they were hatched. But, however, I went nearer, and peeping in, found she sat still, squeezing
herself as flat to the ground as she could. I was in twenty minds whether to take her first,
and then catch the chickens, or to let her go off, and then clap upon them; but as I proposed
to let her go, I thought if she would sit still till I had got the chickens, that would be
the best way; so I softly kneeled down before her, and sliding my hand under her, I gently
drew out two, and put them in a bag I had in my left hand. I then dipped again and again, taking
two every turn; but going a fourth time, as I was bringing out my prize, the hen jumped up,
flew out, and made such a noise that, though I the minute before saw six or seven more chicks
in a lump where she had sat, and kept my eye upon them, yet before I could put the last two
I had got into my bag, these were all gone, and in three hours' search I could not find one
of them, though I was sure they could not pass my net, and must be within the compass of a
small room, my toils enclosing no more. After tiring myself with looking for them, I marched
home with those eight I had got.

I told Youwarkee what I had done, and how I intended to manage the little brood, and, if I
could, to bring them up tame. We kept them some days very warm by the fire, and fed them often,
as I had seen my mother do with her early chickens; and in a fortnight's time they were as
stout and familiar as common poultry. We kept them a long while in the house; and when I fed
them I always used them to a particular whistle, which I also taught my wife, that they might
know both us and their feeding-time; and in a very short while they would come running, upon
the usual sound, like barn-door fowls to the name of Biddy.

There happened in this brood to be five hens and three cocks; and they were now so tame that,
having cut their wings, I let them out, when the weather favoured, at my door, where they would
pick about in the wood, and get the best part of their subsistence; and having used them to
roost in a corner of my ante-chamber, they all came in very regularly at night and took their
places. In fact, if some god or mortal could hear those sounds barbaric, fall back in horror. Over all
hung constantly one other strange thing and all, call, mall. An insightful scholar, after studying
that sound good, given the persistence of the consonant vowel ay ll, perhaps infer that the word
expressed by the mayor was rogue. However, this would not be anything but a more or less legitimate
induction. After silent. He felt a strong heat in the throat, which
instantly invaded the face and head.

Language refused to work. She felt a physical aggrandizement impression of his whole being. Above
all, his head was growing, he believed in such an enormous, barely
able to her.

At the same time the objects around him, the wardrobe, bed, sink, rods leaning against the corner,
he appeared with a size tiny. Within the brain believed to feel the sound of a clockwork in motion,
a revolving wheel with speed and a hammer that fell in step with clang. The hammer stopped, and took
the wheel spinning. Out there on the street, saw strong rumor of people, then let him strange
sounds stiff. Poor Don Roque did not know they were giving their enemies at that time a regular
serenade. He was to call the maid, but feared that such sounds were as sometimes imagined. And
indeed, the idea was confirmed by hearing a Download bells deafened him. It was a dreadful ring,
where they took part from the greater Toledo, to the glory of his clerkship. What madness!
What fatigue! Fortunately ceased to hit the chime. But it was immediately substituted by a prolonged
whistle so sharp, that tore the tympanum of the ear. Instinctively he raised his hands to them.
After the whistle, he imagined that the bed he got up in the foot. His head sank. I saw his feet
up there. This brought strong grief. He gave a deep sigh, and feet back to their level. But then
gradually turn up and head to sink. It was necessary to great sighs of restoring them in place.
Not with that fantastic handling warmed the damned. There were two pieces of ice. In contrast,
the rest of Don Roque burned, it burned. Especially the head reached astounding temperatures, which
was increasingly growing. When he put his hand to his forehead that flowed thought he noticed a bluish
flame. And he heard a voice, the voice of his dead wife for twenty years, calling him shouting: "Roque!
Roque! Roqueee! "The mayor's teeth clashed with terror.

He stopped seeing the closet, the walls of the room, objects that were around, and instead heard
a million lights of all colors that were initially stationary, then began to dance with extreme
violence. By dint of crossing with each other, were soon to form concentric circles, one blue,
one red, one purple, etc., Revolving on itself to be a much richer spectrum than sunlight. At
last those circles, also disappeared, leaving a single faint point of light. But that point
was growing slowly. First was a star, then a moon, then an enormous sun that was expanding and
acquiring both a vivid red. That sun grew and grew steadily. Your hard huge color of blood covering
her half of the ceiling, then covered the two-thirds, and finally filled it all. Roque was a moment
dazzled. Suddenly saw nothing. Never again see anything good mayor. In the morning they found
him dead, sitting in bed, his head bent backwards. A case of apoplexy. Why have to remove? - Do not
know. So I sent it to say for Prospero. - But does it matter to him that music go to San Antonio?
- Uttered in a tone irritated. - I think it's because today a man arrives home of Don Rosendo. .. and
as the road crosses the pilgrimage ... - Oh, yes, the Duke of lathes ... But what does that
matter? ... We are mad! ... Here, let me a moment, I get dressed, and I will see Maza. I think
I'll manage. Let. Fair Mr. Anselmo's stay, and with more urgency
than might be expected of his years and infirmities, Mateo aderezóse
to exit.

His wife
and daughter were, as usual, in the church. Ordered breakfast. - I can not give it, sir. The
lady has taken the keys, and no chocolate outside. - Always the same!
- Murmured the old man, not as angry as it should .-- I do not know
why this woman does not leave out what to leave Needless ... It is
true that, as a rule, I get up late, but there may be an urgent business
as now ... - Want to be an ounce of chocolate to ask the neighbor?
- No, not necessary.

I'm
sure Matilda will be angry. Is there anything out there to eat?

"The maid took a few seconds to answer. - No, sir, I think there
is nothing.

You know
that Mrs. ... - Yes, yes, I know. Don Mateo was the dining room and began to scrutinize the
shooters.

Nothing, there was only the table utensils, knives, forks, corkscrew. Al through the glass of the
cabinet saw some chocolate bars and a tray of biscuits. - Wow, if
it gave any key!

And taking their own began to introduce them into the lock. The tests were not successful.
Hopeless, finally, fixed the glasses with impatience, put on his hat, took his staff and said initiating
the march: - Well, well, we'll put up for today.

But before reaching the back door, and some asked the domestic shortened:
- Is there bread in there - not here yet the baker.

If you want what is mine ...-- she replied, smiling. - Well, to see that bread you. He went
to the kitchen. The maid opened the lid of the masera, and Don Mateo took half rye bread,
black enough. - This brown bread at one time I did not like - said
cutting a piece .-- Viva brown people! - he said walking through the
mouth a morsel of crumb to the crust because I had not dared.

The maid laughed surprised that good humor. - is tastier than ours.

If it were not already a bit hard ... He brushed the crumbs with
your hand, arranged the glasses again and after a drink of water because
the wine was also closed, it flew off towards the town hall.

The
clock pointed to ten building.

He crossed the portico of arches, went up the vast stone staircase
and corridors to get to where there was more of a finger of dust on
the floorboards, Marcones asked who he was met by Don Gabino. - The
mayor is in session. - In session?

Diablo, what time so rare!

Indeed, so rare has been noted. Two years had elapsed since the death of Mr. Roque. Member of the Club,
who had entered City Hall as winners and had at Mayor Don Rufo, more than a year and a half, this time
suffering the bitterness of defeat.

Even had a majority in the municipal corporation, but limited.

But the Cabin in Madrid had been arranged in such a way that managed
to appoint Mayor Gabino Maza.

It was said that
this was due to nasty pasteleo Rojas Salcedo. Noting this in the last municipal elections enough progress
in the Cabin forces had been tipped on its side.

No need to mention the storm of hatred and threats against him for
that reason arose between the followers of Don Rosendo.

Had been engaged in a fierce struggle. Each session of the council
was a scandal.

The Maza had done to prosecute the corporation outgoing waste of
funds by: had the court of first instance for you.

Belinchón those that had the audience will do justice.

But for those who say that God said ayudaréte help yourself and be
put into play to achieve powerful influences.

Letters came and went from Madrid.

Those in the cabin is not neglected either to prevent it. Maza wear yourself out their opponents with
the rod of justice.

Like most of Don Rosendo was just two votes, admirable hatched plots
to tear them out. Sometimes call special sessions at times when some of
them will be unable to attend, others feigned errand sent to some
council members, announcing that it had suspended, others, at the
time any matter put to a vote, it was with Words ambiguous according
to his friends, for Don Rosendo confounded and would vote against
themselves, as happened on more than one occasion.

On more than one also closed in the secretariat left some council
members taking the key.

Then the parents of the town is tired of screaming and banging on
the door, a sheriff came to opening, but it had gained the vote.

Thanks to these and other tricks, to the countless injustices he committed, the choleric vengábase
former Marine of his enemies, who was a beauty. His tactic was to attack them where it hurt, that
is, in their real estate. When in any street had one or more houses of any member of the Club and
none of his friends, made the city architect to vary the grade, leaving lower. In this way were
discovered the foundations of houses and at risk of falling to the
ground , therefore also the hassle of putting up the porch stairs.

A few months as mayor, had more than twenty houses with foundations
Sarrió air.

Other times, he made up the ground so that when heavy rain, were
flooded.

Of course, such tricks aroused strong outcry in favor of Belinchón,
angry tirades by the lighthouse, and countless riots in municipal
meetings ..

But Mace was given around a fig. Remained impassive its unprecedented urban reforms, cruel smile
listening with complaints of their victims, responding to fierce sarcasm to the speeches of the speakers
the other side. Marcones Mateo introduced in an adjacent room to the chamber. The forum for the
public was too ugly to get into it a decent person. In addition, interested him very little
fights roosters those Englishmen. In the same room sat chatting amicably the two notaries of the population,
and Don Victor Varela Sanjurjo. One was an old, small, bug-eyed, with an enormous wig, so rudely
made that looked like esparto, the other a middle-aged man, pale, graying mustache and lame. Saluted
our old and old friends, whom you see every day.

No
one in the radius of the village left to greet Don Mateo. - Hoping to end the session, eh?
- Yes, sir - a dryly responded and removed the old reservation that the desire to enter into
further inquiry. He looked for another conversation, the most he could please the trustees
of the public faith; hunting. The two were cruel persecutors of quail, and woodcock peguetas,
but much more terrible and even hardened hares.

Just came some clear days, these fast or innocent animals had to suffer a violent persecution by the
notarial profession, actively supported by a half-dozen dogs that, for better run, let them starve.
Speaking of the hares was Sanjurjo for Don Victor and the anteroom of heaven. Lift with the rods,
tucked into the bush to the waist, Heaven itself. - What a pity the day! - Mr. Victor said with
a sigh and looked up to heaven through the glass of the balcony, covered with dust. - Truth -
Sanjurjo said, giving another sigh .-- However, the land of Maribona it may be a bit soft, it
rained enough this day. - What has to be! - Mateo uttered .-- Now in the summer dry quickly. Also,
that whole region is limestone and absorbs water easily. notaries
looked at him tenderly. - He said Pepe Esguila - continued - that
the peasants have been jumping hares these days Ladreda. - I know,
- .-- Sanjurjo said today if not for a task that has left us, we would
have gone there.

At the same time was a sign of intelligence to Don Victor. - Well, Pepe had to leave Fermo
this morning. That at least told me last night. Notaries looked shocked. - What did I tell you,
Sanjurjo! - Don Victor said. - Frankly, I tricked that rascal ... Well ... Tomorrow we will have
you and I, Don Victor. But they had sad news. Stubbornly silent. Inside the room could hear
voices immoderate, strong rumors. Ever sounded the shrill ringing of the bell presidential
order calling. Don Mateo, despite not successful this time to encourage conversation, re-established,
facing Sanjurjo. - Man, can not believe you with your default in the leg, to hunt. - Who? this?
Wherever you go, run like a greyhound - Don Victor said with affectionate enthusiasm .-- As soon
as he gets on the trail of the hare, stop being lame. I tell him the limp that has invented it for
attention. Is so lame, like you and me. - If you did me good! - Uttered
Sanjurjo, smiling resignedly.

One touch of a joke, I was happy. Don Victor had the prowess of his partner on several occasions.
One day, to run better, had put on four legs: it was a breath .-- How? - Mateo asked astonished,
- on four legs? - What you hear. Sanjurjo was laughing, saying he had learned to run and a child
when his limp was more pronounced and could not compete with peers. In turn, praised the laziness
of Don Victor, a registered loungers every little grass for not going
ahead and getting tired.

Don Victor laughed too, arguing that no hares stood with his legs,
but with the eyes.

Many times that his obstinacy had given the end result! - Do you remember that day in San Pedro,
three years ago, when he left me only about Arceanes?

Who raised the hare, you went with the wind cool, or myself that I was poking that sifts through
the bushes? The conversation got hotter with great satisfaction Mateo could not see anyone sad at
his side. When they were more embedded in it, ignoring the shouts and blessed peals sounding
behind the door, opens it with a crash and it appears the stately figure of Don Rosendo Belinchón,
in a state of disorder difficult to paint, the tousled hair Some
of them stuck to his forehead with sweat, swollen cheeks, glassy eyes,
the tie at the neck. - Sanjurjo!

... Sanjurjo,
come! - Said in an agitated voice, without a greeting, not even seeing
Don Mateo.

The notary stood up quietly and walked into the room with him. Don Victor did not mention any of
this sudden departure.

She was chatting amiably about the same thing they were talking with Don Mateo, who, though
a little surprised, did not dare ask. After a while, appeared Sanjurjo, who closed the door behind
him, and came to sit with same calm next to them, continuing his interrupted conversation. But not
many minutes passed without which again opened the door with noise, this time the person appearing
pudgy Don Pedro Miranda also state of decomposition. - Don Victor, Don Victor, between you! Not
greeted, nor saw even Don Mateo.

The notary seriously and followed up. - What the devil does this mean? - Asked Don Mateo Sanjurjo,
after it had closed the door

.
 My last thought, as I supposed it, was of you, my
dear" (on which she clasped me round the neck, in sense of her past agony); "when taking myself
for lost, I forbore further resistance; at which instant the line, slackening by the rebound
of the chest, fell from my hand of itself, and the chest returning to the rock, went down the
current. I took a turn or two round on my graundee to recollect my past danger, and went back
to the ship, fully resolved to avoid the like snare for the future. Indeed I did not easily
recover my spirits, and was so terrified with the thought, that I had half a mind to have left
the two remaining chests behind me; but as danger overcome gives fresh resolution, I again
set to work, and discharged them also down the gulf, as I hope you will see in good time."

My heart bled within me all the while she spoke, and I even felt ten times more than she could
have suffered by the gulf. "My dearest Youwee," says I, "why did you not tell me this adventure
sooner?" "It is too soon, I fear, now!" says she; for she then saw the colour forsake my lips,
my eyes grow languid, and myself dropping into her arms. She screamed out, and ran to the chest,
where all was empty; but turning every bottle up, and from the remaining drops in each collecting
a small quantity of liquor, and putting it by little and little to my lips, and rubbing my
wrists and temples, she brought me to myself again; but I continued so extremely sick for some
days after, that it was above a week before I could get down with my cart to fetch up my chests.

When I was able to go down, Youwarkee would not venture me alone, but went herself with me.
We then found two more of the chests, which we landed; and I had work sufficient for two or
three days in getting them all up to the grotto, they were so heavy, and all the way through
the wood being up hill.

We had five in hand, and watched several days for the sixth, when seeing nothing of it we gave
it over for lost; but one day, as I was going for water, Youwarkee would go with me, and urged
our carrying the net, that we might drag for some fish. Accordingly we did so; and now having
taken what we wanted, we went to the rill, and pushing in the head of the boat (as I usually
did, for by that means I could fill the vessel as I stood on board), the first thing that appeared
was my sixth chest. Youwarkee spied it first, and cried, pointing thereto, "O Peter, what we
have long wished for, and almost despaired of, is come at last! let us meet and welcome it."
I was pleased with the gaiety of her fancy. I did as she desired; we got it into the boat,
after merrily saluting it, and so returned home. It took us up several days time in searching,
sorting, and disposing our cargo, and drying the chests; for the goods themselves were so far
from being wetted or spoiled, that even those in the last chest, which had lain so long in
the water, had not taken the least moisture.

Youwarkee was quite alert at the success of her packing, but left me to ring her praises, which
I did not fail of doing more than once at unpacking each chest, and could see her eyes glow
with delight to see she had so pleased me.

She had been so curious as to examine almost everything in the ship; and as well of things
I had described, and she did know, as of what she did not, brought me something for a sample;
but, above all, had not forgot the blue stuff, for the moment she had seen that she destined
it to the use of herself and children.

CHAPTER XXIII.

     The religion of the author's family.

Youwarkee and I having fixed ourselves, by degrees, into a settled rota of action, began to
live like Christians, having so great a quantity of most sorts of necessaries about us. But
I say we lived like Christians on another account, for you must not think, after what I have
said before, that I and my family lived like heathens; no, I will assure you, they by degrees
knew all I knew, and that, with a little artificial improvement, and a well-regulated disposition,
I hoped, and did not doubt, would carry them all to heaven. I would many a time have given
all my interest in the ship's cargo for a Bible; and a hundred times grieved that I was not
master of a pocket one, which I might have carried everywhere about me. I never imagined there
was one aboard, and if there were, and You-warkee should find it, I supposed it would be in
Portuguese, which I knew little of, so it would be of small service to me if I had it.

Since I am on the topic of religion, it may not be amiss, once for all, to give you a small
sketch of my religious proceedings after coming into my new dominions. I have already told
you that from my first stop at the rock I had prayed constantly morning and evening, but I
cannot say I did it always with the same efficacy. However, my imperfect devotions were not
without good effect; and I am confident, wherever this course is pursued with a right view,
sooner or later the issue will prove the same to others as I found it to myself; I mean, that
mercies will be remembered with more gratitude, and evils be more disregarded, and become less
burdensome; and surely the person whose case this is, must necessarily enjoy the truest relish
of life. As daily prayer was my practice, in answer to it I obtained the greatest blessing
and comfort my solitude was capable of receiving; I mean my wife, whose character I need not
farther attempt to blazon in any faint colours of my own after what has been already said,
her acts having spoken her virtues beyond all verbal description.

After we were married, as I call it--that is, after we had agreed to become man and wife--I
frequently prayed before her, and with her (for by this time she understood a good deal of
my language); at which, though contrary to my expectation, she did not seem surprised, but
readily kneeled by and joined with me. This I liked very well; and upon my asking her one day
after prayer if she understood what I had been doing (for I had a notion she did not)--"Yes,
verily," says she, "you have been making petitions to the image of the great Collwar."*--"Pray,"
says I (willing gently to lead her into a just sense of a Supreme Being), "who is this Collwar?
and where does He dwell?"--"He it is," says she, "that does all good and evil to us."--"Right,"
says I, "it is in some measure so; but He cannot of Himself do evil, absolutely and properly,
as His own act"--"Yes," says she, "He can; for He can do all that can be done; and as evil
can be done, He can do it."--So quick a reply startled me. Thinks I, she will run me aground
presently; and from being a doctor, as I fancied myself, I shall become but a pupil to my own
scholar. I then asked her where the great Collwar dwelt? She told me in heaven, in a charming
place.--"And can He know what we do?" says I.--"Yes," replied she, "His image tells Him everything;
and I have prayed to His image, which I have often seen, and it is filled with so much virtue
that it is His second self; for there is only one of them in the world who is so good: He gives
several virtues to other images of Himself, which are brought to Him, and put into His arms
to breathe upon; and the only thing I have ever regretted since I knew you is, that I have
not one of them here to comfort and bless us and our children."

     * God.

Though I was sorry for the oddity of her conceptions, I was almost glad to find her so ignorant,
and pleased myself with thinking that as she had already a confused notion of a Supreme Power,
I should soon have the satisfaction of bringing her to a more rational knowledge of Him.

"Pray, Youwee," says I, "what is your God made of?"--"Why of clay," says she, "finely painted,
and looks so terrible he would make you tremble to behold him."--"Do you think," says I, "that
is the true Collwar's real shape, if you could see Himself?" She told me yes, for that some
of His best servants had seen him, and took the representation from Himself. "And pray, do
you think He loves His best servants, as you call them, and is kind to them?"--"You need not
doubt it," says she.--"Why, then," replied I, "how came He to look so terrible upon them when
they saw Him, as you say they did? for I can see no reason, how terrible soever He looks to
others, why He should show Himself so to those He loves. I should rather think, as you say
He is kind to them, that He should have two images, a placid one for His good, and a terrible
one for His bad servants; or else, who by seeing Him can tell whether He is pleased or angry?
for even you yourself, Youwee, when anything pleases you, have a different look from that you
have when you are angry, and little Pedro can tell whether he does well or ill by your countenance;
whereas, if you made no distinction, but looked with the same face on all his actions, he would
as readily think he did well as ill in committing a bad action." Youwarkee could not tell what
to say to this, the fact seeming against her.

I then asked her if she thought the image itself could hear her petitions. She replied, "Yes."--"And
can he," says I, "return you an answer?"--She told me he only did that to his best servants.--"Did
you ever hear him do it?" says I. "For unless he can speak too, I should much suspect his hearing;
and you being one of his best servants, seeing you love him, and pray heartily to him, why
should you not hear him as soon as others?"--"No," says she, "there are a great number of glumms
on purpose to serve him, pray for us to him, and receive his answers."--"But to what purpose
then," says I, "is your praying to him, if their prayers will serve your turn?"--"Oh," says
she, "the image hears them sooner than us, and sends the petitions up to the great Collwar,
and lets Him know who makes them, and desires Him to let them have what they want."--"But suppose,"
says I, for argument sake, "that you could see the great Collwar, or know where He was, and
should pray to Himself, without going about to His image first, do you think He could not hear
you?"--"I cannot tell that," says she.--"But how then," says I, "can He tell what (if it could
speak) His image says, which is as far from Him and then her own zealous application, with
God's grace, soon brought her to a firm belief in it, and a suitable temper and conduct with
respect to God and man."

After I had begun with my children, I frequently referred their further instruction to their
mother; for I have always experienced that a superficial knowledge, with a desire of becoming
a teacher, is in some measure equivalent to better knowledge; for it not only excites every
principle one has to the utmost, but makes matters more clear and conspicuous even to one's self.

By these means, and the Divine blessing thereon, in a few years, I may fairly say, I had a
little Christian church in my own house, and in a flourishing way too, without a schismatic
or heretic amongst us.

CHAPTER XXIV. Pedro, my eldest, had the graundee, but too small to be useful; my second son
Tommy had it complete, so had my three daughters, but Jemmy and David, the youngest sons, none
at all. My eldest daughter I named Patty, because I always called my first wife so. I say my
first wife, though I had no other knowledge of her death than my dream; but am from that as
verily persuaded, if ever I reach England, I shall find it so, as if I had heard it from her
aunt's own mouth. My second daughter my wife desired might be called by her sister's name Hallycarnie,
and my youngest I named Sarah, after my mother. I put you to the trouble of writing down the
names, for as I shall hereafter have frequent occasion to mention the children severally, it
will be pleasanter for myself and you to call them by their several names of distinction, than
to call them my second son, or my eldest daughter, and so forth.

My wife now took great delight in exercising Tommy and Patty (who were big enough to be trusted)
in flighty and would often skim round the whole island with them before I could walk half through
the wood. And she would teach them also to swim or sail, I know not which to call it, for sometimes
you should see them dart out of the air as if they would fall on their faces into the lake,
when coming near the surface they would stretch their legs in a horizontal posture, and in
an instant turn on their backs, and then you could see nothing from the bank, to all appearance,
but a boat sailing along, the graundee rising at their head, feet, and sides, so like the sides
and ends of a boat that you could not discern the face or any part of the body. I own I often
envied them this exercise, which they seemed to perform with more ease than I could only shake
my leg or stir an arm.

Though we had perpetually swangeans about us, and the voices, as I used to call them, I could
never once prevail on my wife to show herself, or to claim any acquaintance with her country
folks. And what is very remarkable in my children is, that my three daughters and Tommy, who
had the full graundee, had exactly their mother's sight, Jemmy and David had just my sight,
and Pedro's sight was between both, though he was never much affected with any light; but I
was obliged to make spectacles for Tommy and all my daughters when they came to go abroad.

I had in this time twice enlarged my dwelling, which the increase of my family had rendered
necessary. The last alteration I was enabled to do in a much better manner, and with more ease,
than the first, for by the return of my flota I had gotten a large collection of useful tools,
several of iron, where the handles or wood-work preponderated the iron; but such as was all,
or greatest part of that metal, had got either to the rock, or were so fast fixed to the head
of the ship, that it was difficult to remove them, so that my wife could get comparatively
few of this latter sort, though some she did. It was well, truly, I had these instruments,
which greatly facilitated my labours, for I was forced to work harder now than ever in making
provision for us all; and my sons Pedro and Tommy commonly assisted. I had also had another
importation of goods through the gulf, which still added to my convenience. But my boat made
me shudder every time I went into her; she had leaked again and again, and I had patched her
till I could scarce see a bit of the old wood. She was of unspeakable use to me, and yet I
could not venture myself in her, but with the utmost apprehension and trembling. I had been
intending a good while, now I had such helps, to build a new one, but had been diverted by
one avocation or other.

About this time Youwarkee, who was now upwards of thirty-two years of age, the fondest mother
living, and very proud of her children, had formed a project of taking a flight to Arndrumnstake,
a town in the kingdom of Doorpt Swangeanti, as I called it, where her father, if living, was
a colamb * under Georigetti, the prince of that country. She imparted her desire to me, asking
my leave; and she told me, if I pleased, she would take Patty and Tommy along with her. I did
not much dislike the proposal, because of the great inclination I had for a long time to a
knowledge of, and familiarity with, her countrymen and relations; and now I had so many of
her children with me, I could not think she would ever be prevailed on, but by force, to quit
me and her offspring, and be contented to lose six for the sake of having two with her, especially
as she had showed no more love for them than the rest, so I made no hesitation, but told her
she should go.

     * Governor.

I expected continually I should hear of her departure, but she saying no more of it, I thought
she had dropped her design, and I did not choose to mention it. But one day, as we were at
dinner, looking mighty seriously, she said, "My dear, I have considered of the journey you
have consented I should take, but in order thereto it is necessary that I prepare several things
for the children, especially those who have no graundee, and I am resolved to finish them before
I go, that we may appear with decency, both here and at Arndrumn-stake; for I am sure my father,
whose temper I am perfectly acquainted with, will, upon sight of me and my little ones, be
so overjoyed, that he will forgive my absence and marriage, provided he sees reason to believe
I have not matched unworthily, unbecoming my birth; and after keeping me and the children with
him, it may be two or three months, will accompany me home again himself with a great retinue
of servants and relations; or, at least, if he is either dead or unable for flight, my other
relations will come or send a convoy to take care of me and the children; and, my dear, as
I shall give them all the encomiums I can of you, and of my situation with you, while I am
among them, I would have them a little taken with the elegance of our domestic condition when
they come hither, that they may think me happy in you and my children; for I would not only
put my family into a condition to appear before them, but to surprise the old gentleman and
his company, who never in their lives saw any part of mankind with another covering than the
graundee." When she had done, I expressed my approbation of her whole system, as altogether
prudent, and she proceeded immediately to put it in execution. To work she went, opened every
chest, and examined their contents. But while she was upon the hunt, and selecting such things
as she thought fit for her purpose, she recollected several articles she had observed in the
ship, which she judged far more for her turn than any she had at home. Hereupon she prayed
me to let her take another trip to the vessel, and to carry Tommy with her.

After so many trials, and such happy experience of her wise and fortunate conduct, I consented
to her flight, and away went she and her son. Upon their return, which was in a few days, she
told me what they had been doing, and said, as she so often heard me complain of the age of
my boat, and fear to sail in her, she had fitted me out a little ship, and hoped it would in
due time arrive safely. As she passed quickly on to other things, I never once thought of asking
her what she meant by the little ship she spoke of; but must own that, like a foolishly fond
parent, I was more intent on her telling me how Tommy had found a hoard of playthings, which
he had packed up for his own use.

As to this last particular, I learned by the sequel of the story, when the spark, proud of
his acquisition, came to me, that he had been peeping about in the cabin whilst his mother
was packing the chests, and seeing a small brass knob in the wainscot, took it for a plaything,
and pulling to get it out, opened a little door of a cupboard, where he had found some very
pretty toys that he positively claimed for himself, among which were a small plain gold ring,
and a very fine one set with diamonds, which he showed me upon two of his fingers. I wondered
how the child, who had never before seen such things, or the use of them, should happen to
apply these so properly; but he told me in playing with this, meaning the diamond ring, about
his fingers, it slipped over his middle-finger joint, and he could not get it off again, so
he put the other upon another finger to keep it company.

We watched daily, as usual on such occasions, for the arrival of our fleet. It was surprising
that none of the chests which Youwarkee shot down the gulf were ever half so long in their
passage as I was myself, but some came in a week, some in a few days more, and even some in
less, which I attributed to their following directly the course of the water, shooting from
shelf to shelf as the tide sat; and I believe my keeping the boat I sailed in so strictly and
constantly in the middle of the stream, was the reason of my being detained there so long.
In less than a fortnight everything came safe but one chest, which, as we never heard of it,
I suppose was either sunk or bulged.

Being one day upon shore, watching to see if anything more was come through the cavern, I spied
at a distance somewhat looking very black and very long, and by the colour and shape thereof
I took it for a young whale. Having observed it some time making very little way, I took my
old boat and followed it, but was afraid to go near it, lest a stroke with its tail--which
I then fancied I saw move--might endanger my boat and myself too; but creeping nearer and nearer,
and seeing it did not stir, I believed it to be dead; whereupon, taking courage, I drew so
close that at length I plainly perceived it was the ship's second boat turned upside down.
It is not easy to express the joy I felt on this discovery. It was the very thing I was now,
as I have said, in the greatest want of. I presently laid hold of it and brought it ashore;
and it was no small pleasure to find, on examining, that though it had lain so long dry, it
was yet quite sound, and all its chinks filled up in its passage; and it proved to me afterwards
the most beneficial thing I could have had from the ship. 

And things remained as before, although sometimes spoke of referring matters to the decision of the Academy
of Language. It quoted a lot on both sides of the Don Juan Tenorio Zorrilla and the Articles of
Curious speaker. This brought with grammatical competence at least one advantage: the some people
do not devote themselves had greeted with eagerness to learn. The same in the Club that the
cabin had two or three copies of the latest grammar can of the Academy, that never rested.
Contra who fired the shots language more poisoned, was against Rosendo
inspired, however it was nerve head and his party and they should
be, more than anyone, destroy.

Belinchón had not studied grammar, but by a tiny epitome during her childhood. But, like all
geniuses higher if he did not know, the guessed. The opponents drove him to shine at every
instant a thousand follies of its articles. But such is the confidence that inspires his genius
powerful that we have never given credence to these claims, considering them as mere slander. If there
were no grammar, Belinchón, with only their natural light, would be able to invent it. Nobody
ever as he drove the journalistic language, light yes, but brilliant, full of words established by usage
of one hundred thousand writers, where even the most common, expressed
with appropriate emphasis, as deep and mysterious glow sentences.

Through his prodigious style, Don Rosendo wrote with equal ease an article on freedom of religion,
which drafted a report on the livestock industry. His enemies said he committed many Gallicisms.
So what? The mere fact fathered a writer of such caliber, be stopped, and became pure and typical
Castilian idioms. The urge to adjust the gallicisms to Faro, was one of the hobbies that had The
Young Sarrio or local colleague , as he always called it, in order to avoid the name, not to damage
the deep contempt that wanted to show. Building a dictionary curious that one of the members of
the Cabin possessed, ruthlessly crushing the same items that the "novels to hand "of Faro.
 "I thought,"
says I, "Tommy, I had made a good choice for you; but, as I find you despise it, here, Pedro,
do you take that pretty thing, since your brother slights it" Tommy replied, speaking but half
out, and a little surly, more than I ever observed before, "Let him take it if he will, I can
get bits of sticks enough in the wood."

My method had always been to avoid either beating or scolding at my children, for preferring
their own opinion to mine; but I ever let things turn about so, that from their own reason
they should perceive they had erred in opposing my sentiments, by which means they grew so
habituated to submit to my advice and direction, that for the most part my will was no sooner
known to them than it became their own choice; but then I never willed according to fancy only,
but with judgment, to the best of my skill.

Tommy, therefore, as I said before, having shown a disapprobation of my doings; to convince
him of his mistake, I took the flageolet from Pedro. "And now, Pedro," says I, "let me teach
you how to manage this piece of wood, as Tommy calls it, and then let me see if in all the
grove he can cut such another." On this I clapped it to my mouth, and immediately played several
country-dances and hornpipes on it; for though my mother had scarce taught me to read, I had
learnt music and dancing, being, as she called them, gentlemanlike accomplishments. My wife
and children, especially Tommy, all stared as if they were wild, first on me, then on one another,
whilst I played a country-dance; but I had no sooner struck up an hornpipe, than their feet,
arms, and heads had so many twitching and convulsive motions, that not one quiet limb was to
be seen amongst them; till having exercised their members as long as I saw fit, I almost laid
them all to sleep with Chevy Chase, and so gave over.

They no sooner found themselves free from this enchantment, than the children all hustled round
me in a cluster, all speaking together, and reaching out their little hands to the instrument
I gave it Pedro. "There," says I to him, "take this slighted favour as no such contemptible
present."

Poor Tommy, who had all this while looked very simple, burst into a flood of tears at my last
words, as if his heart would have broke; and running to me, fell on his knees, and begged my
pardon, hoping I would forgive him. I took him up, and kissing him, told him he had very little
offended me; for, as he knew, I had more children to give anything to which either of the rest
despised; it was equal to me who had it, so it was thankfully received. I found that did not
satisfy; still in tears, he said, "Might he not have the stick again, as I gave it to him first?"
"Tommy," says I, "you know I gave it to you first; but you disapproving my kindness, I have
now given it Pedro, who, should I against his will take it from him, would have that reason
to complain which you have not, who parted with it by your own consent; and therefore, Tommy,
as I am determined to acquaint you as near as I can with the strict rules of justice, there
must no more be said to me of this matter." Such as this was my constant practice amongst them;
and they having always found me inflexible from this rule, we seldom had any long debates.

Though I say the affair ended so with regard to what I had to do in it, yet it ended not so
with Tommy; for though he knew he had no hopes of moving me, he set all his engines at work
to recover his stick, as he called it, by his mother's and sisters' interest. These solicited
Pedro very strongly to gratify him. At length Pedro--he being a boy of a most humane disposition--granted
their desire, if I would give leave; and I having signified, that the cause being now out of
my hands, he might do as he pleased, he generously yielded it. And indeed he could not have
bestowed it more properly; for Tommy had the best ear for music I ever knew; and in less than
a twelvemonth could far outdo me, his instructor, in softness and easiness of finger; and was
also master of every tune I knew, which were neither inconsiderable in number, nor of the lowest
rate.

Youwarkee, with her daughters, sat close to work, and had but just completed her whole design
for the family clothing, when she told me she found herself with child again. As that circumstance
ill suited a journey, she deferred her flight for about fifteen months; in which time she was
brought to bed, and weaned the infant, which was a boy, whom I named Richard, after my good
master at the academy. The little knave thrived amain, and was left to my farther nursing during
its mammy's absence; who, still firm to her resolution, after she had equipped herself and
companions with whatever was necessary to their travelling, and locked up all the apparel she
had made till her return, because she would have it appear new when her father came, set out
with her son Tommy and my two daughters Patty and Hallycarnie, the last of which by this time
being big enough also to be trusted with her mother.

CHAPTER XXV.

My wife was now upon her journey to her father's; but where that was, or how far off, it was
impossible for me to conceive by her description of the way; for she distinguished it not by
miles or leagues, but by swan-geans, and names of rocks, seas, and mountains, which I could
neither comprehend the distance of from each other, nor from Graundevolet, where I was. I understood
by her, indeed, there was a great sea to be passed, which would take her up almost a day and
night, having the children with her, before she reached the next arkoe, though she could do
it herself she said, and strain hard, in a summer's night; but if the children should flag
by the way, as there was no resting-place between us and Battringdrigg, the next arkoe, it
might be dangerous to them, so she would take the above time for their sakes. After this, I
found by what she said there was a narrow sea to pass, and a prodigious mountain, before she
reached her own country; and that her father's was but a little beyond that mountain. This
was all I could know in general about it. At their departure she and the children had taken
each a small provision for their flight, which hung about their necks in a sort of purse. 

We have already said they will not be surprised to see you eat so much. The temperament like yours
need to replace the fat.

Cecilia answered smiling, half-words, directing live glimpses of respect for the Duke. This, who
had warned his talk, twice lifted the lids to look at them like that cold, distracted, which not express
anything, even disdain, was the height of pride. The second time, especially when Cecilia and
Gonzalo wins laughed putting his napkin to his mouth to turn off the
sound, the look of the hero was longer, yet cold and distracted. Venturita,
indignant, the eye stabbing .

But Gonzalo, or revenge for their earlier ridicule, or because they do not really feel the character
before pregnancy and respect others, not abated in the habit of talking with her sister and
making her laugh. Loving fraternity of the two brothers, not decreased.

Gonzalo and his daughters belonged to Cecilia. In every moment of her life, her influence was felt soft
and benevolent. Of the two girls, first, Cecily, had two and a half years, the other, Paulina,
had eight months. The same one to another, living on the maternal warmth of her aunt. She washed
them, she wore them, gave them lunch, take them out for a walk, taught to pray to the first.
The mother, still love them, he tired quickly, their cries the impatient, and he tried to silence
them did not know; concluded by stunning and suffocate. Hence, in their needs, their desires are
not clamoring children rather than titta. Once, Ventura, wounded by this preference, jealous,
forced them to accept their trades, kept them in spite beside her. This will only result in greater
detachment was in the creatures mixed with fear. As Gonzalo, Cecilia was in a sister and a mother
always attentive to avoid trouble, to separate the thorns of the way. In it lay, she came as a big boy
and spoiled, impatient if not instantly fulfilled his wishes, bothering more than necessary. But
the bond between him and his wife, remained firm, steadfast. The lively sense of worship and desire
that had made him commit the first vileness of his life, not faded. However much away, by eccentric
orbit that was her life, Ventura was holding him with the rays of her beauty, was fascinating
as before your senses. Cecilia guessed well. So when the young man, wounded by some disdain,
in a malevolent word of his wife, was unleashed on insults against her, smiling sadly, tried to calm
him, certain that his brother would soon be humble, contrite and ashamed to go to kiss feet.
When the hero finally finished his monologue, there was a moment of silence. Then, as if he remembered
an omission committed, began to learn with and affected benevolent care of the affairs of their people.
Pedrosa Mr. Don Rufus was a doctor, right?

The medical practice is painful, especially in the provinces, which generally do not get the
deserved reward .-- Mr. Peña, a sailor, eh? Oh, the body of the army, has always been brilliant.
Too bad it does not match our war material to the courage and skill
of the officers.

"They run a lot of scales? Does a lot to do port address? Intended to introduce in the Senate a motion
calling for the construction of two battleships .-- What Pablito, much amused Sarrió? What resources
that town offered to young people? Had he been in Madrid? He was fond of horses. Ah! riding,
a great exercise. The Duke really understand this hobby.

Are the horses he had, were the country or abroad? ... To all those questions in a distracted way,
smiling mannequin, hurriedly, as if reciting a lesson. It was indeed the most painful page of
the book of good manners, one in which caution that must be pleasing to the people with whom we talk,
asking about their business. A Gonzalo and Cecilia glanced coldly, but did not make them any
question. Accomplished so daunting task, the tycoon turned to fall
into the eternal monologue.

This time it was not about painting, but about archeology. Lancia had seen in a Byzantine chapel
that he was much struck by its purity. There was no sign she's still one of transformation. The cathedral
median. Only the tower was notable for its slimness.
 I was uncertain as to my wife's return, how soon she might be with me, or how much
longer she might stay; but I was sure I could do nothing in the meanwhile more grateful than
increasing, by all means in my power, the accommodations of my house, for the more polite as
well as convenient reception of her father, or any else who might accompany her home in the
way of a retinue, as she talked of. I saw plainly I had not room for lodging them, and that
was a circumstance of main importance to be provided for. Hereupon I thought of adding a long
apartment to one of my outer-rooms, to range against the side of the rock; but reflecting that
such a thing would be quite useless, unless I could finish it in time, so as to be complete
when my guests came, and not knowing how soon that might be, I resolved to quit this design;
and I fell upon another which might do as well, and required much less labour and fewer days
to perfect.

I remembered that amongst those things my wife had packed up on board the ship, and which came
home through the gulf, there were two of the largest sails, and a couple of a smaller size.
These I carried to the wood, and tried them in several places to see where they might be disposed
to most advantage in the nature of a tent, and having found a convenient spot to my purpose,
I cut divers poles for supporters, and making straining lines of my matweed, I pitched a noble
one, sufficient to cover or entertain a numerous company, and so tight everywhere as to keep
out the weather. The front of this new apartment I hung with blue cloth, which had a very genteel
effect. I had almost forgotten to tell you that I contrived (by hanging one of the smaller
sails across, just in the middle, which I could let down or raise up at pleasure) to divide
the tent occasionally into two distinct rooms.

When I had proceeded thus far, there were still wanting seats for this additional building,
as I may call it, and though I could spare some chests to sit on, I found they would not half
do. For a supplement, then, I took my axe and felled a couple of great trees, one from each
side of the tent, sawed off the tops, and cut each of the trunks in two about the middle: these
huge cylinders I rolled into the tent with a good deal of toil and difficulty; two of them
I thrust into the inner division, and left two in the outer. I placed them as benches on both
sides, then, with infinite pains, I shaved the upper face of each smooth and flat, and pared
off all the little knots and roughnesses of the front, so that they were fitted to sit on,
and their own weight fixed them in the place where I intended them to be. At the upper end
of the farther chamber I set three chests lengthwise for seats, or any other use I might see
fit to put them to.

During these operations we were all hard at it, and no hand idle but Dicky in arms, and Sally,
whom he kept in full employ; but Pedro, being a sturdy lad, could drive a nail, and lift or
carry the things I wanted, and Jemmy and David, though so young, could pick up the chips, hold
a nail or the lamp, or be some way or other useful; for I always preached to them the necessity
of earning their bread before they ate it, and not think to live on mine and their brother's
labour.

The nights being pretty long, after work was over, and Sarah had fed her brother and laid him
in his hammock, we used to sit all down to enjoy ourselves at a good meal, for we were never
regular at that till night; and then after supper, my wife being absent, one or other of the
young ones would begin with something they had before heard me speak of, by saying, "Daddy,
how did you use to do this or that in England?" Then all ears were immediately open to catch
my answer, which certainly brought on something else done either there or elsewhere; and by
their little questions and my answers they would sometimes draw me into a story of three hours
long, till, perhaps, two or three of my audience were falling asleep, and then we all went to bed. 

They want to cut our way to Vienna, for which they will descend the hill and Pratz be between our
right and wetlands. See if you are stupid! That is exactly what we want the Emperor, and everything
seems to have so that we retired to Vienna. Imagine, here is our
army, consisting of seventy thousand men, whose immense compared
occupy all the hills on the left, the road and part of the plain to
the right.

The emperor, after filling the nostrils of snuff, leaving at midnight to see the countryside and observe
the movements of the enemy. "See, there it goes. Did not hear the footsteps of his horse and the shouts
of enthusiasm with which he greeted the soldiers? Can not see the glow of fires that ignite
in its path? But you do not see this? Bah! It is my hope, but so stirs my memories of the similarity
of the landscape that I think I see and hear what I'm saying ... But you'll want to know how it was
we beat the Russians and Austrians, and I'm going to mention. At dawn, oh, boys!, the Russians
down mechanically by the lofty hill opposite, in order to come to our right to cut off the road.
Do not forget that here before we have a meandering stream that comes from
left to right was lost in the marshes.

The Emperor had the right to pass the stream, and verified this, the Russians attacked. The center,
commanded by Soult and Lannes left, eager to enter into fire, when the Emperor contained the ardor
of those generals, to await the Russians had just committed the blunder of losing Pratz Heights
to get into Golbasch Creek mother. I'll explain it. There, in the distance and at the foot of
the hill, are the villages of Telnitz and Sokolnitz ... - If there is
not such villages, sir - interrupted Marijuan unruly to mystification.
- Fool, will you shut up? - "continued the Freemason -.
 What a country is this to live in! and what an improper creature am
I to live in it! Had I but the graundee, I would have found her out by this time, be she where
she would; but, whilst every one about me can pass, repass, and act as they please, I am fixed
here like one of my trees, bound to the spot, or, upon removal, to die in the attempt. Alas!
why did I beget children here, but to make them as wretched and inconsolable as myself! Some
of them are so formed, indeed, as to shift for themselves; but they owe it to their mother,
not to me. What! am I a father of children who will be bound one day to curse me? Severe reflection!
Yet I never thought of this till now. But am I the only father in such a case? No, surely!
for am not I as much bound to curse my father as my children are to curse me? He might have
left me happy if he would; I would them if I could. Again, are there not others who, by improper
junction with persons diseased in body or vicious in mind, have entailed greater misery upon
their posterity than I have on mine! My children are all healthy, strong, and sound, both in
body and mind; and is not that the greatest blessing that can be bestowed on our beings? But
they are imprisoned in this arkoe! What then? With industry, here is no want; and as they increase
they may settle in communities, and be helpful to each other. I have lived here well nigh sixteen
years, and it was God's pleasure I should be here; and can I think I was placed here with an
injunction contrary to the great command, "Increase and multiply?" If that were so, can it
be possible I should have received the only means of propagating, as it were, from Heaven itself?
No, it was certainly as much my Maker's will that I should have posterity here, as that I myself
should at first be brought thither. This is a large and plentiful spot, and capable of great
improvement, when there shall be hands sufficient. How many petty states are less than these
my dominions! I have here a compass of near twenty miles round, and how many thousands grow
voluntarily grey in a far less circuit?

I had hardly finished my reflections (for I was sitting by myself in my tent upon one of the
trees I had turned into benches), when I heard a musical voice call, "Peter! Peter!" I started.
"What's this?" says I. "It is not Youwarkee's voice! What can this mean?" Listening, I heard
it again, but at so great a distance I could but just perceive the sound. "Be it where it will,"
says I, "I will face it!" Thus speaking, I went out of the tent, and hearkened very attentively,
but could hear nothing. I then ran for my gun, and walked through the wood as fast as I could
to the plain; but still I neither saw nor heard anything. I was then in hopes of seeing somebody
on the lake, but no one appeared; for I was fully determined to make myself known to whomsoever
I should meet; and, if possible, to gain some intelligence of my wife. But after so much fruitless
pains, my hopes being at an end, I was returning when I heard, "Peter! Peter!" again at a great
distance, the sound coming from a different quarter than at first. Upon this I stopped, and
heard it repeated; and it was as if the speaker approached nearer and nearer. Hereupon I stepped
out of the wood (for I had just re-entered it upon my return home), when I saw two persons
upon the swangean just over my head. I cried out, "Who's that?" And they immediately called
again, "Peter! Peter!"--Ors clam gee, says I; that is, Here am I.--On this they directly took
a small sweep round (for they had overshot me before they heard me) and alighted just by me;
when I perceived them to be my wife's countrymen, being dressed like her, with vol. only broader
chaplets about their heads, as she had told me the glumms all wore. The novels are certainly examples
of works that, after Don Quixote, more originality, talent and grace shows manco de Lepanto.
The book of Mr. Icaza proves this truth, after a careful and judicious
consideration of the matter, with keen observations and great copy
of data collected diligently and artfully arranged.

Therefore it is clear that Cervantes can be regarded as inventor of the modern novel of manners
and character. The books of chivalry and pastoral novels are picaresque until something else
is a long series of adventures, without further action unit of the life of someone who is great
and portrays the writer from his birth until his death. Before Cervantes was also something we might
call historical novel or relationship of events that, if the story does not accept severe, are
not feigned by the novelist, but based on some reality, beautified and adorned by the fancy of the
vulgar, whose inventions then embodies tradition and to some extent permitted. So The Abencerraje,
de Villegas, and civil wars of Granada, Ginés Pérez de Hita. The short stories, finally, and tales
of Italian, French and English, including in the Decameron, of Boccaccio,
are very different from the novel cervantesca. They have an event, referred
to a set in tragic or comic, sad or happy, but without looking at
the painting of manners and the living representation of the passions
and human characters.

     In this set, and this helps to paint the author of The Jealous Extremadura,
and Cortadillo Rinconete of illustrious mop of The Gypsy Girl and
most other exemplary novels where, due to its psychological acuity,
new or almost never used before in this genre of fiction, Cervantes
is to be the father or the founder of the novel, as we conceive of
and understand in the day.

     

     

For the demonstration of this truth, which presupposes a claim highly original Cervantes, Mr.
Icaza review and judge all his novels, as critics have referred to them that from his contemporaries
to the present; contest the judgments light Huet, Florian and others test the lack of merits of
the allegations of plagiarism and Bosarte launched by Estala and
demonstrates the powerful influence they have exercised the novels
of Cervantes in our theater Spanish, abroad and in the same novel,
which fed neglected among us for nearly two centuries, flourished
and gave spicy fruit in France, England and other countries, whence
he returned to Spain very increased in wealth, but to be forgotten
as Spanish origin it has.



I first presented a can of my Madeira, and took care, as if by accident, to give it to Mr.
Uppermost, as I thought him, who drank half of it, and would have given the remainder to his
companion, but I begged him to drink it all up, and his friend should be served with some presently:
he did so, and thanked me by lifting his hand to his chin. I then gave the other a can of the
same liquor, which he drank, and returned thanks as his companion had before. I then took a
can myself, and telling them I begged leave to use the ceremony of my own country to them,
I drank, wishing their own health, and that of all relations at Arndrumnstake. He that I took
for the superior fell a-laughing heartily: "Ha, ha, ha!" says he, "this is the very way my
sister does every day at Arndrumnstake."--"Your sister, sir!" says I, "pray has she ever been
in Europe or England?"--"Well!" says he, "I have plainly discovered myself, which I did not
intend to do yet; but, truly, brother Peter, I mean none other than your own wife Youwarkee."

The moment I knew who he was, I rose up and taking him by the right hand, lifted it to my lips
and kissed it. He likewise immediately stood up, and we embraced each other with great tenderness.
I then begged him, as I had so worthy and near a relation of my wife's with me, that he would
not delay the happiness I hoped for, in a narrative from his mouth, how it fared with my father,
wife, and children, and all their kinsfolks and friends whom I had so often heard mentioned
by my dearest Youwarkee, and so earnestly desired to see.

My brother Quangrollart (for that, he told me, was his name) was preparing to gratify my impatience;
but seeing I had set the entertainment on the table, which consisted chiefly of bread, several
sorts of pickles and preserves, with some cold salted fish, he said that eating would but interrupt
the thread of his discourse; and therefore, with my leave, he would defer the relating of what
I desired for a little while; which we all thinking most proper, I desired him and his friend
(who might be another brother for aught I knew) to refresh themselves with the poor modicum
I was able to provide them.

Whilst my brother Quangrollart was looking upon and handling his plate, being what he had never
before seen, his friend had got the handle of one of the knives in his mouth, biting it with
all his force; but finding he could make nothing of that end he tried the other, and got champing
the blade. Perceiving what he was at, though I could not help laughing, I rose, and begging
pardon, took the knife from him; telling him I believed he was not acquainted with the use
of that instrument, which was one of my country implements; and that the design of it, which
was called a knife, and of that other (pointing to it), called a fork, was the one to reduce
the food into pieces proper for chewing, and the other to convey it to the mouth without daubing
the fingers, which must happen in handling the food itself; and I then showed him what use
I put them to, by helping each of them therewith to somewhat, and by cutting a piece for myself,
and putting it to my mouth with the fork.

They both smiled and looked very well pleased; and then I told them that the plate was the
only thing that need be daubed, and when that was taken away the table remained clean. So,
after I had helped each of them for the first time, I desired them to help themselves where
they liked best; and, to say the truth, they did so more dexterously than I could have expected.

During our repast we had frequent sketches of the observations they made in their flight, and
of the places where they had rested; and I could plainly see that neither of them had ever
been at this arkoe before, by hinting that if they had not taken such a course they had missed me.

I took particular notice which part of my entertainment they ate most of, that I might bring
a fresh supply of that when wanted; and I found that though they eat heartily of my bread and
preserves, and tasted almost of everything else, they never once touched the fish; which put
me upon desiring I might help them to some. At this they looked upon each other, which I readily
knew the meaning of, and excused themselves, expressing great satisfaction in what they had
already gotten. I took, however, a piece of fish on my own plate, and eating very heartily
thereof, my brother desired me to give him a bit of it; I did so, taking care to cut it as
free from bones as I could, and for greater security cautioning him, in case there should be
any, to pick them out, and not swallow them. He had no sooner put a piece in his mouth, but,
"Rosig," says he to his friend, "this is padsi."--I thought indeed I had puzzled my brother
when I gave him the fish, but by what he said of it, he puzzled me; for I knew not what he
meant by padsi, my wife having told me they had no fish, or else I should have taken that word
for their name of it. However, I cut Rosig a slice; and he agreeing it was padsi, they both
ate heartily of it.

While we were at dinner, my brother told me he thought he saw some of my children just now;
for his sister had informed him she had five more at home; and he asked me why they did not
appear and eat with us. I excused their coming, as fearing they would only be troublesome;
and said, "When we had done they should have some victuals." But he would not be put off, and
entreated me to admit them. So I called them by their names, and they came, all but Dicky,
who was asleep in his hammock. I told them that Reglumm,* pointing to Quangrollart, was their
uncle, their mamma's brother, and ordered them to pay their obeisance to him, which they severally
did. I then made them salute Rosig. Open wide plywood sheets, you could see the gate in dirty
leather, with two small doors side. An old woman went out, set in motion the rusty hinges, and
the noise of the rust, a mournful sound reached my ears, modulating her
voice that I had found my name. This time I did not laugh, but I went
decidedly in the church.

     I saw many saints painted or sculpture, and, strange thing!, it seemed
that all images smiled quietly.

The church was modest, white, dark. In the shiny banks sat some old ladies. The lights of the
altar, to be reflected in the trappings of a red curtain that served luengo canopy to the Virgin, shining
stars of that sweet dark eels, indicating where they should direct their pious eyes. Soon to be there,
it seemed that within less dark and began to see every object distinctly. In the back of the church,
facing the altar, there was a large fence that rose from floor to ceiling behind this gate percibíanse
vague moving clarity and muffled speech, of which all stood out from
time to time a cough or a syllable repeated echoes of the vault.

Approaching the gate, I could easily distinguish behind her black and
white packages, some of whom marched slowly and quietly to a door that
opened into the bottom corner, and stood motionless and knees. They were
the nuns.

     Contemplating the tranquility of the holy women, its peaceful
     seclusion, the apparent vagueness of their corporeal forms, that
silence their steps are simple creations resembled the light at the
bottom of the camera obscura, contemplating that calm of his prayers,
that nobody heard, I felt envious of those who immerse their lives
in the sweet shade of a cloister.

I did not take my eyes of the choir, having indiscreetly movements
of good mothers, and the greater was my attention, I would more clearly
presenting the different objects in that room, and gradually I saw
the chairs, the lectern, the organ, the pictures.

So slowly out of the dark profiles of these objects, which my imagination could believe the author
of this spectacle. The day was declining and the church is darkened by degrees, but one of Mothers,
pulling ropes, pulled back the curtain black high choir window, and then came the twilight, giving
all their true form. They retired nuns, I felt the faint jingle of medals when they raised their
rosaries, knee, and then kisses. It was easy to count the number that went by the number of explosions
that sounded soft in that space, because all the out kissing the feet of Christ hanging by the
door. This took care of me, when the figures were still kneeling in the center of the choir stood
up one, heading to the gate and at the same place where I was. My impression
on seeing her, seeing her face, seeing his eyes I looked, was so
alive, so terrifying that I had to be frozen, cold blood, life on
hold, a statue made of lead.

     

What I was seeing, what was it? Was it an aberration, a delusion, a dream image, a great toy, the
work of mischievous angels who make fun of their worldly sorrows will desecrate the house of
God?

I stared at her, stunned by that enigma, to that mystery, but the vision did not last more than a few
seconds, because the nun, called on the other, away from the gate, and rushed out of the choir
without kissing the foot of the Holy Christ. to be alone, met all, absolutely all the rays of my right,
and together, confused and went to the black darkness of the phenomenon. I wanted to dispel the cloudscape
that enveloped my mind making me stupid, and I wondered if he had just witnessed was playing
this trick of my senses that shortly before had made me see a hand on a piece of paper and hear my name
in the creaking of a door. I could hit in the head, I looked for a more solitary place, where,
serenity, could make clear question so hard, and without knowing how, struck into the bottom
of a chapel. In a picture that was offered to my eyes suddenly saw a phalanx of angels, a thousand of these
lovely creatures without further bodily nature one head and two wings, the artists have created to
delight the affairs of the mystical paintings. They attracted my attention these playful creatures and tangled
all children laughed with laughter, and mingling flying, tearing
clouds, scattering flowers with the flapping of its wings chicken,
and giving the raps to collide with other heads blondes.

At times I felt that was advancing on me the faces flock of flying,
and then slipped by with a merry din movements of fear, to hide then
behind a cloud, and from there winks me with bright eyes and lovely
faces with their mouths.

      She did so, and had no sooner entered the abb,* but
Youwarkee called out, 'My dear sister Hally-carnie!' and she as readily recollecting Youwarkee,
they in transport embraced each other; and then your wife presenting to us her three children,
it proved the tenderest scene, except the following, I ever saw.

     * Room.

"My father having kept his chamber some time with a fever, and though he was pretty well recovered,
having not yet been out of it, we consulted how we might introduce our sister and children
to him, with as little surprise as might be, for fear of a relapse by too great a hurry of
his spirits. At length we concluded I should go tell him that some strangers had arrived desiring
to see him; but on inquiry, finding their business was too trifling to trouble him upon, I
had despatched them; I was then to say how like one of them was to my sister Youwarkee; and
whilst I was speaking, Hallycarnie was to enter, and keep up the discourse till we should find
a proper opportunity of discovery. I went in, therefore, as had been agreed; and upon mentioning
the name of Youwarkee, my father fetched a deep sigh and turned away from me in tears. At that
instant Hallycarnie came in as by accident. 'Sir,' says she, 'what makes you so sad? are you
worse to-day?'--'Oh,' says he, 'I have heard a name that will never be out of my heart, till
I am in hoximo.'*--'What, I suppose my sister?'--''Tis true,' replied he, 'the same.'--Says
she, 'I fancied so, for I have just seen a stranger as like her as two dorrs** could be, and
would have sworn it was she, if that had been possible. I thought my brother had been so imprudent
as to mention her to you; and I think he did not do well to rip up an old sore he knew was
almost healed, and make it break out afresh.'--'Ah! no, child,' says my father, 'that sore
never has, nor can be healed. O Great Image! why can't it by some means or other be ascertained
what end she came to?'

     * A place where the dead are buried.

     ** A fruit like an apple.

"'Sir,' says my sister, 'I think you are much to blame for these exclamations, after so long
absence; for, if she be dead, what use are they of? and if she be not, all may be well, and
you may still see her again.'--'Oh, never, never!' says my father; 'but could I be sure she
was alive, I would take a swangean and never close my graundee till I found her, or dropt dead
in the search.'--'And suppose you could meet with her, sir,' says I, 'the very sight would
overcome you, and be dangerous.' 'No, believe me, boy,' says he, 'I should then be fully easy
and composed; and were she to come in this moment, I should suffer no surprise, but pleasure.'--'No
surprise, sir?' says I.--'Not if she were alive and well,' says he.--'Then, sir,' says Hallycarnie,
'will you excuse me if I introduce her?' and went out directly without staying for an answer.

"When she was gone, 'Quangrollart,' says my father sternly, 'what is the meaning of yours and
your sister's playing thus upon my weakness? It is what I can upon no account forgive. It looks
as if you were weary of me, and wanted to break my heart. To what purpose is all this prelude
of yours, to introduce to me somebody, who, by her likeness to my daughter, may expose me to
your scoff and raillery? This is a disobedience I never expected from either of you.'

"'The Great Image attend me!' says I; 'sir, you have much mistaken me; but I will not leave
you in doubt, even till Hallycarnie's return. There is no going into details in this short little article
or give exact idea of how well studied than is the case by Mr. de Icaza, and rectal approach, uncommon
knowledge and uncommon diligence that displays and looks concerned.

The GOOD CLOTH ... NOVEL BY JF MUÑOZ Pabon, Priest if I understand
correctly and if not remember correctly, the famous French novelist
Emile Zola said that a good novel must be the exact representation
of lived experience, observed and understood at through a temperament.

Zola forgets or neglects main thing: imagination, that is the active
force which is well lived and what has been seen and observed.

Do not just look and see: you must be reproduced or re-create it using
the word and by virtue of fantasy.
 But I, having a little more
presence of mind, called for the calentar;** who, by holding his nose, pinching his feet, and
other applications, in a little time brought him to his senses again.

     * A bed or couch covered with a sort of cotton.

     ** A sort of doctor in all great families.

"You may more easily conceive than I describe, both the confusion we were all in during my
father's disorder, and the congratulations upon his recovery; so, as I can give you but a defective
account of these, I shall pass them by, and come to our more serious discourse, after my father
and your wife had, without speaking a word, wept themselves quite dry on each other's necks.

"My father, then looking upon the three children (who were also crying to see their mamma cry),
'And who are these?' says he.--'These, sir,' says Youwarkee, 'are three of eight of your grandchildren.'--'And
where is your barkett?' says he. At the same time thousands of civilians, running through hills
and heights, so harassing the French, they could not move. This surveillance allowed to rest for part
of the army, and especially the wounded, although they were only very slightly, like me, we were
free to stay in the village where we were concerned to gather food and bring them to the camp, as
well as accommodate the severely injured in the main house.
 

More than forty women, we bet on the stairs, some with forks, tongs others with these grills, one
with a hand drill, this other beat with a rod of wool. If they go, we make pieces. My husband
took that old spear that has been there since such famous campaigns, and standing in front of us on the
stairs, harangued and ordered us how we had to apply. Ah, if they raise these dogs! "I was the oldest
of all, and the bravest, though I say it is wrong.


END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY BALLANTYNE, HANSON AND CO. EDINBURGH AND LONDON.

