My heart sank within me.... I sat down on a chair beside him, and involuntarily dropping my
eyes in the presence of that horror and deformity, I also put out my hand.

But it seemed to me that it was not his hand which grasped mine.

It seemed to me as though there were sitting between us a tall, quiet, white woman. A long
veil enveloped her from head to foot. Her deep, pale eyes gazed nowhere; her pale, stern lips
uttered no sound....

That woman joined our hands.... She reconciled us forever.

Yes.... It was Death who had reconciled us....

April, 1878.

THE VISIT

I was sitting at the open window ... in the morning, early in the morning, on the first of May.

The flush of dawn had not yet begun; but the dark, warm night was already paling, already growing
chill.

No fog had risen, no breeze was straying, everything was of one hue and silent ... but one
could scent the approach of the awakening, and in the rarefied air the scent of the dew's harsh
dampness was abroad.

Suddenly, into my chamber, through the open window, flew a large bird, lightly tinkling and
rustling.

I started, looked more intently.... It was not a bird: it was a tiny, winged woman, clad in
a long, close-fitting robe which billowed out at the bottom.

She was all grey, the hue of mother-of-pearl; only the inner side of her wings glowed with
a tender flush of scarlet, like a rose bursting into blossom; a garland of lilies-of-the-valley
confined the scattered curls of her small, round head,--and two peacock feathers quivered amusingly,
like the feelers of a butterfly, above the fair, rounded little forehead.

She floated past a couple of times close to the ceiling: her tiny face was laughing; laughing
also were her huge, black, luminous eyes. The merry playfulness of her capricious flight shivered
their diamond rays.

She held in her hand a long frond of a steppe flower--"Imperial sceptre"[72] the Russian folk
call it; and it does, indeed, resemble a sceptre.

As she flew rapidly above me she touched my head with that flower.

I darted toward her.... But she had already fluttered through the window, and away she flew
headlong....

In the garden, in the wilderness of the lilac-bushes, a turtle-dove greeted her with its first
cooing; and at the spot where she had vanished the milky-white sky flushed a soft crimson.

I recognised thee, goddess of fancy! Thou hast visited me by accident--thou hast flown in to
young poets.

O poetry! O youth! O virginal beauty of woman! Only for an instant can ye gleam before me,--in
the early morning of the early spring!

May, 1878.

NECESSITAS--VIS--LIBERTAS

A BAS-RELIEF

A tall, bony old woman with an iron face and a dull, impassive gaze is walking along with great
strides, and pushing before her, with her hand as harsh as a stick, another woman.

This woman, of vast size, powerful, corpulent, with the muscles of a Hercules, and a tiny head
on a bull-like neck-and blind--is pushing on in her turn a small, thin young girl.

This girl alone has eyes which see; she resists, turns backward, elevates her thin red arms;
her animated countenance expresses impatience and hardihood.... She does not wish to obey,
she does not wish to advance in the direction whither she is being impelled ... and, nevertheless,
she must obey and advance.

    Necessitas--Vis--Libertas:

Whoever likes may interpret this.

May, 1878.

ALMS

In the vicinity of a great city, on the broad, much-travelled road, an aged, ailing man was
walking.

He was staggering as he went; his emaciated legs, entangling themselves, trailing and stumbling,
trod heavily and feebly, exactly as though they belonged to some one else; his clothing hung
on him in rags; his bare head drooped upon his breast.... He was exhausted.

He squatted down on a stone by the side of the road, bent forward, propped his elbows on his
knees, covered his face with both hands, and between his crooked fingers the tears dripped
on the dry, grey dust.

He was remembering....

He remembered how he had once been healthy and rich,--and how he had squandered his health,
and distributed his wealth to others, friends and enemies.... And lo! now he had not a crust
of bread, and every one had abandoned him, his friends even more promptly than his enemies....
Could he possibly humble himself to the point of asking alms? And he felt bitter and ashamed
at heart.

And the tears still dripped and dripped, mottling the grey dust.

Suddenly he heard some one calling him by name. He raised his weary head and beheld in front
of him a stranger: a face calm and dignified, but not stern; eyes not beaming, but bright;
a gaze penetrating, but not evil.

"Thou hast given away all thy wealth," an even voice made itself heard.... "But surely thou
art not regretting that thou hast done good?"

"I do not regret it," replied the old man, with a sigh, "only here am I dying now."

"And if there had been no beggars in the world to stretch out their hands to thee," pursued
the stranger, "thou wouldst have had no one to whom to show thy beneficence; thou wouldst not
have been able to exercise thyself therein?"

The old man made no reply, and fell into thought.

"Therefore, be not proud now, my poor man," spoke up the stranger again. "Go, stretch out thy
hand, afford to other good people the possibility of proving by their actions that they are good."

The old man started, and raised his eyes ... but the stranger had already vanished,--but far
away, on the road, a wayfarer made his appearance.

The old man approached him, and stretched out his hand.--The wayfarer turned away with a surly
aspect and gave him nothing.

But behind him came another, and this one gave the old man a small alms.

And the old man bought bread for himself with the copper coins which had been given him, and
sweet did the bit which he had begged seem to him, and there was no shame in his heart--but,
on the contrary, a tranquil joy overshadowed him.

May, 1878.

THE INSECT

I dreamed that a score of us were sitting in a large room with open windows.

Among us were women, children, old men.... We were all talking about some very unfamiliar subject--talking
noisily and unintelligibly.

Suddenly, with a harsh clatter, a huge insect, about three inches and a half long, flew into
the room ... flew in, circled about and alighted on the wall.

It resembled a fly or a wasp.--Its body was of a dirty hue; its flat, hard wings were of the
same colour; it had extended, shaggy claws and a big, angular head, like that of a dragon-fly;
and that head and the claws were bright red, as though bloody.

This strange insect kept incessantly turning its head downward, upward, to the right, to the
left, and moving its claws about ... then suddenly it wrested itself from the wall, flew clattering
through the room,--and again alighted, again began to move in terrifying and repulsive manner,
without stirring from the spot. It evoked in all of us disgust, alarm, even terror.... None
of us had ever seen anything of the sort; we all cried: "Expel that monster!" We all flourished
our handkerchiefs at it from a distance ... for no one could bring himself to approach it ...
and when the insect had flown in we had all involuntarily got out of the way.

Only one of our interlocutors, a pale-faced man who was still young, surveyed us all with surprise.--He
shrugged his shoulders, he smiled, he positively could not understand what had happened to
us and why we were so agitated. He had seen no insect, he had not heard the ominous clatter
of its wings.

Suddenly the insect seemed to rivet its attention on him, soared into the air, and swooping
down upon his head, stung him on the brow, a little above the eyes.... The young man emitted
a faint cry and fell dead.

The dreadful fly immediately flew away.... Only then did we divine what sort of a visitor we
had had.

May, 1878.

CABBAGE-SOUP

The son of a widowed peasant-woman died--a young fellow aged twenty, the best labourer in the
village.

The lady-proprietor of that village, on learning of the peasant-woman's affliction, went to
call upon her on the very day of the funeral.

She found her at home.

Standing in the middle of her cottage, in front of the table, she was ladling out empty[73]
cabbage-soup from the bottom of a smoke-begrimed pot, in a leisurely way, with her right hand
(her left hung limply by her side), and swallowing spoonful after spoonful.

The woman's face had grown sunken and dark; her eyes were red and swollen ... but she carried
herself independently and uprightly, as in church.[74]

"O Lord!" thought the lady; "she can eat at such a moment ... but what coarse feelings they have!"

And then the lady-mistress recalled how, when she had lost her own little daughter, aged nine
months, a few years before, she had refused, out of grief, to hire a very beautiful villa in
the vicinity of Petersburg, and had passed the entire summer in town!--But the peasant-woman
continued to sip her cabbage-soup.

At last the lady could endure it no longer.--"Tatyána!" said she.... "Good gracious!--I am
amazed! Is it possible that thou didst not love thy son? How is it that thy appetite has not
disappeared?--How canst thou eat that cabbage-soup?"

"My Vásya is dead," replied the woman softly, and tears of suffering again began to stream
down her sunken cheeks,--"and, of course, my own end has come also: my head has been taken
away from me while I am still alive. But the cabbage-soup must not go to waste; for it is salted"

The lady-mistress merely shrugged her shoulders and went away. She got salt cheaply.

May, 1878.

THE AZURE REALM

O azure realm! O realm of azure, light, youth, and happiness! I have beheld thee ... in my dreams.

There were several of us in a beautiful, decorated boat. Like the breast of a swan the white
sail towered aloft beneath fluttering pennants.

I did not know who my companions were; but with all my being I felt that they were as young,
as merry, as happy as I was!

And I paid no heed to them. All about me I beheld only the shoreless azure sea, all covered
with a fine rippling of golden scales, and over-head an equally shoreless azure sea, and in
it, triumphantly and, as it were, smilingly, rolled on the friendly sun.

And among us, from time to time, there arose laughter, ringing and joyous as the laughter of
the gods!

Or suddenly, from some one's lips, flew forth words, verses replete with wondrous beauty and
with inspired power ... so that it seemed as though the very sky resounded in reply to them,
and round about the sea throbbed with sympathy.... And then blissful silence began again.

Diving lightly through the soft waves, our swift boat glided on. It was not propelled by the
breeze; it was ruled by our own sportive hearts. Whithersoever we wished, thither did it move,
obediently, as though it were gifted with life.

We encountered islands, magical, half-transparent islands with the hues of precious stones,
jacinths and emeralds. Intoxicating perfumes were wafted from the surrounding shores; some
of these islands pelted us with a rain of white roses and lilies-of-the-valley; from others
there rose up suddenly long-winged birds, clothed in rainbow hues.

The birds circled over our heads, the lilies and roses melted in the pearly foam, which slipped
along the smooth sides of our craft.

In company with the flowers and the birds, sweet, sweet sounds were wafted to our ears....
We seemed to hear women's voices in them.... And everything round about,--the sky, the sea,
the bellying of the sail up aloft, the purling of the waves at the stern,--everything spoke
of love, of blissful love.

And she whom each one of us loved--she was there ... invisibly and near at hand. Yet another
moment and lo! her eyes would beam forth, her smile would blossom out.... Her hand would grasp
thy hand, and draw thee after her into an unfading paradise!

O azure realm! I have beheld thee ... in my dream!

June, 1878.

TWO RICH MEN

When men in my presence extol Rothschild, who out of his vast revenues allots whole thousands
for the education of children, the cure of the sick, the care of the aged, I laud and melt
in admiration.

But while I laud and melt I cannot refrain from recalling a poverty-stricken peasant's family
which received an orphaned niece into its wretched, tumble-down little hovel.

"If we take Kátka," said the peasant-woman; "we shall spend our last kopéks on her, and there
will be nothing left wherewith to buy salt for our porridge."

"But we will take her ... and unsalted porridge," replied the peasant-man, her husband.

Rothschild is a long way behind that peasant-man!

July, 1878.

THE OLD MAN

The dark, distressing days have come....

One's own maladies, the ailments of those dear to him, cold and the gloom of old age. Everything
which thou hast loved, to which thou hast surrendered thyself irrevocably, collapses and falls
into ruins. The road has taken a turn down hill.

But what is to be done? Grieve? Lament? Thou wilt help neither thyself nor others in that way....

On the withered, bent tree the foliage is smaller, more scanty--but the verdure is the same
as ever.

Do thou also shrivel up, retire into thyself, into thy memories, and there, deep, very deep
within, at the very bottom of thy concentrated soul, thy previous life, accessible to thee
alone, will shine forth before thee with its fragrant, still fresh verdure, and the caress
and strength of the springtime!

But have a care ... do not look ahead, poor old man!

July, 1878.

THE CORRESPONDENT

Two friends are sitting at a table and drinking tea.

A sudden noise has arisen in the street. Plaintive moans, violent oaths, outbursts of malicious
laughter have become audible.

"Some one is being beaten," remarked one of the friends, after having cast a glance out of
the window.

"A criminal? A murderer?" inquired the other.--"See here, no matter who it is, such chastisement
without trial is not to be tolerated. Let us go and defend him."

"But it is not a murderer who is being beaten."

"Not a murderer? A thief, then? Never mind, let us go, let us rescue him from the mob."

"It is not a thief, either."

"Not a thief? Is it, then, a cashier, a railway employee, an army contractor, a Russian Mæcenas,
a lawyer, a well-intentioned editor, a public philanthropist?... At any rate, let us go, let
us aid him!"

"No ... they are thrashing a correspondent."

"A correspondent?--Well, see here now, let's drink a glass of tea first."

July, 1878.

TWO BROTHERS

It was a vision....

Two angels presented themselves before me ... two spirits.

I say angels ... spirits, because neither of them had any garments on their naked bodies, and
from the shoulders of both sprang long, powerful wings.

