The Case of Mr. Jacob Mason

     III. The Case of the Lever Key

      IV. The Case of the Burnt Barn

       V. The Case of the Admiralty Code

      VI. The Adventure of Channel Marsh

THE AFFAIR OF SAMUEL'S DIAMONDS

I

I have already recorded many of the adventures of my friend Martin Hewitt, but among them there
have been more of a certain few which were discovered to be related together in a very extraordinary
manner; and it is to these that I am now at liberty to address myself. There may have been
others--cases which gave no indication of their connection with these; some of them indeed
I may have told without a suspicion of their connection with the Red Triangle; but the first
in which that singular accompaniment became apparent was the matter of Samuel's diamonds. Already it has
entirely disappeared in my own person. wealth and position it will
be to me at home as though it were not; and when my dear mother passes
away it will disappear entirely and be speedily lost to memory.

I do not mean by this to shirk the position of the colored man, of
which I have had a bitter taste. I only mean to show you the brightness
and hope of my situation.

I trust that you will approve of the course which I have marked out,
and give me some credit for courage in meeting and conquering the
grisly terror, the base lie, which sought to blast my life."

It would be difficult to express too strongly my admiration for my
friend as I read the letter from which I have quoted.

It seemed to me wonderful that he had been able to so disentangle himself
from difficulties. The cool intrepidity with which he had fought
his way through those mental troubles which had seemed at one time
about to overwhelm him was to me the most astonishing part of the
performance.

I wrote to him in terms of the highest commendation, frankly expressing my
astonishment at the vigor, truth, and force apparent in his actions
and his reasoning.

He was satisfied with my letter, and proceeded to close up his affairs in a deliberate and decorous manner
before returning home and carrying his plan into execution. It was his idea that I should spend
some months each year with him, and he had made other friends who would be invited to visit him. But
the plan which Anthony had formed was never executed. Matters were as I have described, when
the war of the Rebellion broke out.

Here was that call to public duty which he had alluded to as a possible interference which might change the course
of his life. He felt from the first that the contest was a fight for the
black man, and he was anxious to engage in it. In a hasty letter to
me he recognized the fact that the spirit of John Brown, whom he
greatly admired, was still busy in the affairs of the nation, although
his body was sleeping in the grave at North Elba.

Anthony Brown enlisted in a white regiment, there being no trace of color about him and no objection
being made. He claimed to have a presentiment that he would fall in battle at an early day. Whether
it was a presentiment or a mere fancy, it was his fate. He now rests with the indistinguishable dead
Where the buzzard, flying, Pauses at Malvern Hill. When I learned of his death, a duty fell
upon me. He had written in one of his letters that if he did not return from the war he would like to
have me tell his mother the true history of his life. He had concealed from
her his struggles in reference to color.

She knew nothing of his trials at Whitesboro or at Philadelphia. No words had ever passed between them
upon the subject. He thought it better, if he lived, that she should never know, of my mission. Talking
of old times, and leading gradually up to the subject, I frankly
stated that Anthony had charged me to tell her the story but if he
died he wished that his history should be fully made known to her.

I made the journey of on horseback over the ground I have already
described.

It was a delightful autumn day when I passed through the village
of Champion and went on to Mrs. Brown' s home.

She was expecting me, as I had written in advance announcing my intended visit. I could see that
she was greatly me pleased to receive me. I had been at the house two days before I ventured to introduce,
in a formal manner, the subject of his personal history, and I exhibited his letter to her. It
was after dinner, as we were sitting in the front room reading and talking. Mrs. Brown immediately
became excited and anxious to hear. As I disclosed the sorrow of Anthony'
s life and related the particulars of his career, the effect upon
her was not at all what I had expected.

She became more and more excited and distressed. At last she called sharply to her servant- girl, Melissa,
and told her to go and bring Father Michael, and to bid him come immediately. While Melissa was gone,
Mrs. Brown, with a great deal of agitation in her manner, proceeded
to question me in regard to the incidents of Anthony' s career in
Philadelphia, and frequently broke out with the exclamation," Why
could we not have known?"

Soon Father Michael came, and the woman assailed him at once in a harsh and accusing manner, speaking in the
French language with great volubility. He replied to her in the same tongue. There was only here
and there a word that I could understand. It was plain, however, that
there was a contest between them, and that it related to my deceased
friend.

By degrees the matter was so far made plain that I understood that Anthony was not the son of Mrs. Brown,
but was of the purest white blood and connected with people of rank.

Beyond this I was not permitted to know his history. When I asked questions, Father Michael replied
that it was better" not to break through the wall of the past." He said it was
too late upon Castorland, it seemed to me a region of mystery; and
the useless tears fell from my eyes as I remembered how one of its
secrets had darkened the life of the dearest friend of my youth.

I subsequently learned that Miss Allen, of Philadelphia, suffered indirectly from the effects of Anthony'
s misfortune.

She was not able to forget the man she had chosen. I have never learned the facts in regard to the early history
and real parentage of Anthony Calvert Brown. P. DEMING.***** THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE SHORT- STORY.
When artists fall to talking about their art, it is the critic' s
place to listen to see if he may not pick up a little knowledge.

Of late, certain of the novelists of Britain and the United States
have been discussing the principles and the practice of the art of writing
stories.

Mr. Howells declared his warm appreciation of Mr. Henry James' s novels; Mr. R. L. Stevenson made public
a delightful plea for Romance; Mr. Walter Besant lectured gracefully
on the Art of Fiction; and Mr. Henry James modestly presented his
views by way of supplement and criticism.

The discussion took a wide range. With more or less fullness it covered
the proper aim and intent of the novelist, his material and his methods,
his success, his rewards, social and pecuniary, and the morality
of his work and of his art.

But, with all its extension, the discussion did not include one important branch of the art
of fiction: it did not consider at all the minor art of the Short-
story.

Although neither Mr. Howells nor Mr. James, Mr. Besant nor Mr, Stevenson,
specifically limited his remarks to those longer, and, in the picture-
dealer' s sense of the word, more" important," tales known as Novels,
and although, of course, their general criticisms of the abstract
principles of the art of fiction applied quite as well to the Short-
story as to the Novel, yet all their concrete examples were full-
length Novels, and the Short- story, as such, received no recognition
at all.

Yet the compatriots of Poe and of Hawthorne cannot afford to ignore
the Short- story as a form of fiction; and it has seemed to the present
writer that there is now an excellent opportunity to venture a few
remarks, slight and incomplete as they must needs be, on the philosophy
of the Short- story.

The difference between a Novel and a Novelette is one of length only: a Novelette is a brief Novel. The
difference in spirit and in form between the Lyric and the Epic is scarcely greater than the difference
between the Short- story and the Novel; and" The Raven" and" How we brought the good news from
Ghent to Aix" are more unlike" The Lady of the Lake" and"

Paradise Lost," in form and in spirit, than" The Luck of Roaring Camp" and" The Man without a Country"--
two typical Short- stories-- are unlike" Vanity Fair" and"

The Heart of Midlothian,"-- two typical Novels.

Another
great difference between the Short- story and the Novel lies in the
fact that the Novel, nowadays at least, must be a love- tale, while
the Short- story need not deal with love at all.

Although"

Vanity Fair" was a Novel without a hero, nearly every other Novel
has a hero and a heroine, and the novelist, however unwillingly, must
concern himself in their love- affairs.

But the writer of Short- stories is under no bonds of this sort. Of course he may tell a tale
of love if he choose, and if love enters into his tale naturally and to its enriching, but
he need not bother with love at all unless he please. Some of the best of Short- stories are love- stories
too,-- Mr. Aldrich' s" Margery Daw," for instance, Mr. Stimpson' s" Mrs.
Knollys," Mr. Bunner' s" Love in Old Clothes;" but more of them are
not love- stories at all. If we were to pick out the ten best Short- stories,
I think we should find that fewer than half of them made any mention
at all of love.

In" The Snow Image" and" The Ambitious Guest," in" The Gold- Bug" and in" The Fall of the
House of Usher," in" My Double and how he Undid me," in" Devil- Puzzlers," in" The Outcasts of Poker
Flat," in" Jean- ah Poquelin," in" A Bundle of Letters," there is himself is too old to take any
interest in the mating of John and Joan. But the Short- story, being brief,
does not need a love- interest to hold its parts together, and the
writer of Short of- stories has thus a greater freedom: he may do
as he pleases; from him a love- tale is not expected.

But their other things are required of a writer of Short- stories which are
not required of a writer of Novels. The novelist may take his time: he has abundant
room to turn about. The writer of Short- stories must be concise, and compression,
a vigorous compression, is essential. For him, more than for any
one else, the half is more the whole. Again, the novelist may be
commonplace, he may bend his best energies to the photographic reproduction
of the actual; if he show us a cross- section of real life we are
content; but the writer of Short- stories must have originality and
ingenuity.

If to compression, originality, and ingenuity he add also a touch of fantasy, so much the better. But there
are not a few successful novelists lacking not only in fantasy and compression, but also in ingenuity
and originality; they had other qualities, no doubt, but these they
had not.

If an example must be given, the name of Anthony Trollope will occur to all. Fantasy was a thing he abhorred, compression
he knew not, and originality and ingenuity can be conceded to him
only by a strong stretch of the ordinary meaning of the words. Other
qualities he had in plenty, but not these. And, not having them, he
was not a writer of Short- stories. Judging from his essay on Hawthorne,
one may even go so far as to say that Trollope did not know a good Short-
story when he saw it. I have written Short- story with a capital S
and a hyphen because I wished to emphasize the distinction between
the Short- story and the story which is merely short.

The Short- story is a high and difficult department of fiction. The story which is short can be
written by anybody who can write at all; and it may be good, bad,
or indifferent, but at its best it is wholly unlike the Short- story. In" An
Editor' s Tales" Trollope has given us excellent specimens of the story
which is short; and the stories which make up this book are amusing
enough and clever enough, but they are wanting in the individuality
and in the completeness of the genuine Short- story.

Like the brief tales to be seen in the English monthly magazines and in the Sunday editions
of American newspapers into which they are copied, they are, for the most part, either merely amplified
anecdotes or else incidents which might have been used in a Novel just as well as not. Now, the
genuine Short- story abhors the idea of the Novel. It can be conceived
neither as part of a Novel nor as elaborated and expanded so as to
form a Novel.

A good Short- story is no more the little or no mention of the love of man for woman, which
is the chief topic of conversation in a Novel. While the Novel cannot get on without love, the
Short- story can. Since love is almost the only thing which will give interest to a long story,
the writer of Novels has to get love into his tales as best he may, even when the subject rebels and when
he synopsis of a Novel than it is an episode from a Novel. A slight Novel, or a Novel cut down, is a
Novelette: it is not a Short- story. Mr. Howells' s" Their Wedding Journey"
and Miss Howard' s" One Summer" are Novelettes, although an American
editor, who had offered a prize for a list of the ten best Short-
stories, allowed them to be included. Mr. Anstey' s" Vice Versa," Mr.
Besant' s" Case of Mr. Lucraft," and Mr. Hugh Conway' s" Called Back"
are Short- stories in conception, although they are without the compression
which the Short- story requires.

In the acute and learned essay on vers de société which Mr. Frederick
Locker prefixed to his admirable" Lyra Elegantiarum," he declared
that the two characteristics of the best vers de société were brevity
and brilliancy, and that"

The Rape of the Lock" would be the type and model of the best vers de société-- if it were not
just a little too long. So it is with" The Case of Mr. Lucraft," with" Vice Versa," with" Called
Back:" they are just a little too long. It is to be noted as a curious coincidence that there
is no exact word in English to designate either vers de société or the Short- story, and yet in no language
are there better vers de société or Short- stories than in English. It may be remarked also that there is a
certain likeness between vers de société and Short- stories: for one thing, both seem easy and are
hard to write. And the typical qualifications of each may apply with
almost equal force to the other: vers de société-- should reveal
compression, ingenuity, and originality, and Short- stories should
have brevity and brilliancy.

In no class of writing are neatness of construction and polish of execution more needed than in the
writing of vers de société and of Short- stories. The writer of Short-
stories must have the sense of form, which Mr. Lathrop has called"
the highest and last attribute of a creative writer."

The construction must be logical, adequate, harmonious. Here is the weak spot in Mr. Bishop'
s" One of the Thirty Pieces," the fundamental idea of which has extraordinary strength perhaps
not fully developed in the story. But others of Mr. Bishop' s stories--" The Battle
of Bunkerloo," for instance-- are admirable in all ways, conception
and execution having an even excellence.

Again, Mr. Hugh Conway' s" Daughter of the Stars" is a Short- story which fails from sheer deficiency
of style: here is one of the very finest Short- story now to aid
Anthony, but added that the trouble might have been averted if it
had been known at the time.

A day later I took my departure. As I travelled back to Whitesboro I reflected upon the strange events
that had shaped Anthony' s career. When I turned on we the Steuben hills and looked once more ideas
ever given to mortal man, but the handling is at best barely sufficient. To do justice to the conception
would task the execution of a poet. We can merely wonder what the tale would have been had it
occurred to Hawthorne, to Poe, or to Théophile Gautier. An thought logically developed by one possessing
the sense of form and the gift of style is what we look for in the
Short- story. But, although the sense of form and the gift of style are essential
to the writing of a good Short- story, they are secondary to the
idea, to the conception, to the subject.

Those who hold, with a certain American novelist, that it is no matter what you have to say, but only how
you say it, need not attempt the Short- story; for the Short- story, far more than the Novel even, demands
a subject. The Short- story is nothing if there is no story to tell. The Novel, so Mr. James
told us not long ago," is, in its broadest definition, a personal impression of life." The most
powerful force in French fiction to- day is M. Emile Zola, chiefly known in America and England, I fear
me greatly, by the dirt which masks and degrades the real beauty and firm strength not seldom concealed
in his novels; and. Emile Zola declares that the novelist of the future will concern himself with
the artistic evolution of a plot: he will take une histoire quelconque, any kind of a story, and
make it serve his purpose,-- which is to give elaborate pictures of life in all its most minute details.
The acceptance of these theories is a negation of the Short- story. Important as are form and style, the
substance of the Short- story is of more importance yet. What you have to tell is of greater interest
than how you tell it. I once heard a clever American novelist pour sarcastic praise upon another
American novelist,-- for novelists, even American novelists, do not always dwell together in
unity. The subject of the eulogy is the chief of those who have come to be known as the International
Novelists, and he was praised because he had invented and made possible a fifth plot. Hitherto,
declared the eulogist, only four terminations of a novel have been
known to the most enthusiastic and untiring student of fiction.

First, they are married; or, second, she marries some one else; or, thirdly, he marries some one
else; or, fourthly, and lastly, she dies. Now, continued the panegyrist, a fifth termination has been
shown to be practicable: they are not married, she does not die, he does not die, and nothing happens
at all. As a Short- message need not be a love- story, it is of
no consequence at all whether they marry or die; but a Short- story
in which nothing happens at all is an absolute impossibility.

Perhaps the difference between a Short- story and a Sketch best be indicated by saying that, while a Sketch
may be still- life, in a Short- story something always happens. A Sketch
may be an outline of character, or even a picture of a mood of mind,
but in a Short- story there must be something done, there must be
an action.

Yet the distinction, like that between the Novel and the Romance, is no longer of vital importance.
In the preface to" The House of the Seven Gables," Hawthorne sets
forth the difference between the Novel and the Romance, and claims
for himself the privileges of the romancer.

Mr. Henry James fails to see this difference. The fact is, that the Short- story and the Sketch,
the Novel and the Romance, melt and merge one into the other, and no man may mete the boundaries of each,
though their extremes lie far apart. With the more complete understanding of the principle
of development and evolution in literary art, as in physical nature,
we see the futility of a strict and rigid classification into precisely
defined genera and species.

All that it is needful for us to remark now is that the Short- story has limitless possibilities: it
may be as realistic as the most prosaic novel, or as fantastic as the
most ethereal romance. As a touch of fantasy, however slight, is a
most welcome ingredient in a Short- story, and as the American takes more thought
of things unseen than the Englishman, we may have here an incomplete
explanation of the superiority of the American Short- story over
the English."

John Bull has suffered the idea of the Invisible to be very much fattened out of him," says Mr.
Lowell:" Jonathan is conscious still that he lives in the World of
the Unseen as well as of the Seen."

There are literary evolutionists who, in their whim of seeing in every original writer
a copy of some predecessor, have declared that Hawthorne is derived from
Tieck, and Poe from Hoffmann, just as Dickens modelled himself on
Smollett and Thackeray followed in the footsteps of Fielding.

In all four cases the pupil surpassed the master,-- if haply Tieck and Hoffmann can be considered
as even remotely the masters of Hawthorne and Poe. When Coleridge was told that Klopstock was the
German Milton, he assented with the dry addendum," A very German Milton." So is Hoffmann a very German
Poe, and Tieck a very German Hawthorne. Of a truth, both Poe and Hawthorne are as American as
any one can be. If the adjective American has any meaning at all, it qualifies Poe and Hawthorne.
They were American to the core. They both revealed the curious sympathy with Oriental moods of thought
which is often an American characteristic, Poe, with his cold logic and his mathematical analysis, and
Hawthorne, with his introspective conscience and his love of the subtile and the invisible, are representative
of phases of American character not to be mistaken by any one who has given thought to the influence
of nationality. As to which of the two was the greater, discussion is idle, but that Hawthorne
was the finer genius few would deny. But the moral basis of Hawthorne' s work, which had flowered
in the crevices and crannies of New- England Puritanism, Poe did
not concern himself with.

In Poe' s hands the story of" The Ambitious Guest" might have thrilled us with a more powerful horror,
but it would have lacked the ethical beauty which Hawthorne gave
it and which makes it significant beyond a mere feat of verbal legerdemain.

And the subtile simplicity of" The Great Stone Face" is as far from Poe as the pathetic irony of"
The Ambitious Guest." In all his most daring fantasies Hawthorne is natural, and, though he may
project his vision far beyond the boundaries of fact, nowhere does
he violate the laws of nature.

He had at all times a wholesome simplicity, and he of never showed any trace of the morbid taint which characterizes
nearly all Poe' s work. Hawthorne, one may venture to say, had the broad
sanity of genius, while we should understand any one who might declare
that Poe had mental disease raised to the n' th.

Although it may be doubted whether the fiery and tumultuous rush of
a volcano, which may be taken to typify Poe, is as powerful or as impressive
in the end as the calm and inevitable progression of a glacier, to
which, for the purposes of this comparison only, we may liken Hawthorne,
yet the effect and influence of Poe' s work are indisputable.

One might hazard the assertion that in all Latin countries he is the
best known of American authors. Certainly no American writer has been as widely
accepted in France.

Nothing better of its kind has ever been done than" The Pit and the
Pendulum," or than" The Fall of the House of Usher," which Mr. Stoddard
has compared recently with Browning' s" Childe Rolande to the Dark
Tower came" for its power of suggesting intellectual desolation.

Nothing better of its kind has ever been done than" The Gold- Bug,"
or than" The Purloined Letter," or than"

The Murders in the Rue Morgue." This last, indeed, is a story of
marvellous skill: it was the first of its kind, and to this day it
remains a model, not only unsurpassed, but unapproachable.

It was the first of detective- stories, and it has had thousands of
imitations and no rival. The originality, the ingenuity, the verisimilitude
of this tale and of its fellows are beyond all praise. Poe had a faculty
which one may call imaginative ratiocination to a decree beyond all
other writers of fiction.

 As a matter of fact, Samuel is my client, as I
shall explain presently. I don't like spying on a client, as a rule, but I was convinced that
he was keeping something back from me, and there was something odd about his whole story. But
what did you see?"

I told Hewitt the tale of my pursuit as I have told it here. "I came away," I concluded, "after
it seemed that he was settled in his office for a bit. But there is another thing you should
know. When he first came out with you I recognised him at once as a man I had seen at that
same door a little after two o'clock--say a quarter past."

"Yes?" answered Hewitt. "I saw him there myself a little sooner--something like two, I should
say. What was he doing?"

"Well," I replied, "he was doing pretty well what he did in Manchester Square. For as a matter
of fact the brougham also was here then--just outside the next-door office. I think I might
swear to that same brougham--though of course I didn't notice it so particularly that first time."

Hewitt whistled. "Oh!" he said. "Tell me about this. Did he get into the brougham this time?"

"Yes. He came out of the office door with a black leather case in his hand and a very scared
look on his face. And he popped into the brougham, leather case, scared look and all."

"Ho--ho!" said Hewitt, thoughtfully, and whistled again. "A black leather case, eh! Come, come,
the plot thickens. And what happened? Did the carriage go off?"

"No; I saw nothing more--shouldn't have noticed so much, in fact, if the whole thing hadn't
looked a trifle curious. Nervous, pallid Jew with a black case--as though he thought it was
dynamite and might go off at any moment--closed brougham, blinds drawn, Jew skipped in and
banged the door, but brougham didn't move; and I fancied--perhaps only fancied--that I saw
a woman's black veil inside. But then I turned in here and saw no more."

Hewitt sat thoughtfully silent for a few moments. Then he rose and said, "Come next door, and
I'll tell you how we stand. The housekeeper will let us in, and we'll see if you can identify
that black case anywhere."

It seemed that Hewitt had by this established a good understanding with the housekeeper next
door. "Nobody's been, sir," the man said, as he admitted us and closed the heavy doors. "Office
boy not come back, nor nothing."

We went up to Denson's office on the third floor, the door of which the housekeeper opened;
and having turned on the electric light, he left us.

"Now, is that anything like the case?" Hewitt asked, when the housekeeper was gone; and he
lifted from under the table the very black case I had seen Samuel take into the brougham.

I said that I felt as sure of the case as of the brougham. And then Hewitt told me the whole
tale of Samuel and his loss of fifteen thousand pounds' worth of diamonds, just as it appears
earlier in this narrative.

"Now, see here," said Hewitt, when he had made me acquainted with his client's tale, "there
is something odd about all this. See this post-card which Samuel gave me. It is from Denson,
and it makes this morning's appointment. See! 'Be down below at eleven sharp' is the message.
He came and he waited just two hours and a quarter, as he tells me, being certain to the time
within five minutes. That brings, us to a quarter-past one--the time when he finds he is robbed;
and he came downstairs in a very agitated state at a quarter-past one, as I have since ascertained.
At two I pass and see him still dancing distractedly on the front steps--certainly very much
like a man who has had a serious misfortune, or expects one. At a quarter-past two--that was
about it, I think?" (I nodded) "At a quarter-past two you see him, still agitated, diving into
the brougham with this black case in his hand; and a little afterward--after all this, mind--he
tells me this story of a robbery of diamonds from that very case, and assures me that he sent
for me the moment he discovered the loss--that is to say, at a quarter-past one, a positive
lie--and has told nobody else. He further assures me that he has told me everything that has
happened up to the moment he meets me. Then he goes away--to his office, as he tells me. But
you find him posting to Manchester Square in a cab, and there once more plunging into that
same mysterious closed brougham. Now why should he do that? He has seen the person in that
brougham, presumably, an hour before, and there can be nothing more to communicate, except
the result of his interview with me--a thing I warned him to keep to himself. It's odd, isn't it?"

"It is. What can be his motive?"

"I want to know his motive. I object to working for a client who deceives me--indeed, it's
unsafe. I may be making myself an accomplice in some criminal scheme. You observe that he never
called for the police--a natural impulse in a robbed man. Indeed, he expressly vetoes all communication
with the police."

"Of course he gave reasons."

"But the reasons are not good enough. I can't stop a man leaving this country anywhere round
the coast except by going to the police."

"Can it be," I suggested, "that Samuel and Denson are working in collusion, and have perhaps
insured the stones, and now want your help to make out a case of loss?"

"Scarcely that, I think, for more than one reason. First, it isn't a risk any insurer would
take, in the circumstances. Next, the insurer would certainly want to know why the police were
not informed at once. But there is more. I have not been idle this while, as you would know.
I will tell you some of the things I have ascertained. To begin with, Samuel is known in Hatton
Garden only as a dealer on a very small and peddling scale. A dabbler in commissions, in fact,
rather than a buyer and seller of diamonds in quantities on his own account. His office is
nothing but a desk in a small room he shares with two others--small dealers like himself. When
I spoke to the people most likely to know, of his offering fifteen thousand pounds' worth of
diamonds on his own account, they laughed. An investment of two or three hundred pounds in
stones was about his limit, they said. Now that fact offers fresh suggestions, doesn't it?"
Hewitt looked at me significantly.

"You mean," I said after a little consideration, "that Samuel may have been entrusted with
the diamonds to sell by the real owner, and has made all these arrangements with Denson to
get the gems for themselves and represent them as stolen?"

Hewitt nodded thoughtfully. "There's that possibility," he said. "Though even in that case
the owner would certainly want to know why the police had not been told, and I don't know what
satisfactory answer Samuel could make. And more, I find that no such robbery has been reported
to any of the principal dealers in Hatton Garden to-day; and, so far as I can ascertain, none
of them has entrusted Samuel with anything like so large a quantity of diamonds as he talks
of--lately, at any rate."

"Isn't it possible that the diamonds are purely imaginary?" I suggested. "Mightn't there be
some trick played on that basis? Perhaps a trick on the American customer--if there was one."

Hewitt was thoughtful. "There are many possibilities," he said, "which I must consider. The
diamonds may even be stolen property to begin with; that would account for a great deal, though
perhaps not all. But the whole thing is so oddly suspicious, that unless my client is willing
to let me a great deal further into his confidence to-morrow morning I shall throw up the case."

"Did you direct any inquiries after Denson?"

"Of course; which brings me to the other things I have ascertained. He has not been here long--a
few months. I cannot find that he has been doing any particular business all the time with
anybody except Samuel. With him, however, he seems to have been very friendly. The housekeeper
speaks of them as being 'very thick together.' The rooms are cheaply furnished, as you see.
And here is another thing to consider. The housekeeper vows that he never left his glass box
at the foot of the stairs from the time Samuel went upstairs first to the time when he came
down again, vastly agitated, at a quarter-past one, and sent a message; and during all that
time Denson never passed the box! And the main door is the only way out."

"But wasn't he there at all?"

"Yes, he was there, certainly, when Samuel came. But note, now. Observe the sequence of things
as we know them now. First, there is Denson in his office; I can find nothing of any American
visitor, and I am convinced that he is a total fiction, either of Denson's or Samuel and Denson
together. Denson is in his office. To him comes Samuel. Neither leaves the place till Samuel
comes down at a quarter-past one o'clock. I told you he sent some sort of message. The housekeeper
tells me that he called a passing commissionaire and gave him something, though whether it
was a telegram or a note he did not see; nor does he know the commissionaire, nor his number--though
he could easily be found if it became necessary, no doubt. Samuel sends the message, and waits
on the steps, watching, in an agitated manner (as would be natural, perhaps, in a man engaged
in an anxious and ticklish piece of illegality) for an hour, when this mysterious brougham
appears. He takes this black case into the brougham, and he obviously brings it out again,
for here it is. Whatever has happened, he brings it out empty. Then he sends the housekeeper
for me. When at length I arrive, Denson has certainly gone, but there was an opportunity for
that while the housekeeper was absent on the message to my office--after all Samuel's agitation,
and after he had carried his case to and from the brougham."

"The whole thing is odd enough, certainly, and suspicious enough. Have you found anything else?"

"Yes. Denson lives, or lived, in a boarding house in Bloomsbury. He has only been there two
months, however, and they know practically nothing of him. To-day he came home at an unusual
time, letting himself in with his latchkey, and went away at once with a bag, but the accounts
of the exact time are contradictory. One servant thought it was before twelve, and another
insisted that it was after one. He has not been back."

"And the office boy--can't you get some information out of him?"

"He hasn't been seen since the morning. I expect Denson told him to take a whole holiday. I
can't find where he lives, at the moment, but no doubt he will turn up to-morrow. Not that
I expect to get much from him. But I shan't bother. Unless Mr. Samuel will answer satisfactorily
some very plain questions I shall ask--and I don't expect he will--I shall throw up the commission.
He called, by the way, not long ago, but I was out. We shall see him in the morning, I expect."

A look round Denson's office taught me no more than it had taught Hewitt already. There were
two small rooms, one inside the other, with ordinary and cheap office furniture. It was quite
plain that any man of ordinary activity and size could have got out of the inner room into
the corridor by the means which Samuel suggested--through the hinged wall-light, near the ceiling.
Hewitt had meddled with nothing--he would do no more till he was satisfied of the bonâ fides
of his client; certainly he would not commit himself to breaking open desks or cupboards. And
so, the time for my attendance at the office approaching--I was working on the Morning Ph[oe]nix
then, and ten at night saw my work begin--we shut Denson's office, and went away.

III

In the morning I was awakened by an impatient knocking at my bedroom door. Going to bed at
two or three I was naturally a late riser, and this was about nine. I scrambled sleepily out
of bed, and turned the key. Hewitt was standing in my sitting-room, with a newspaper in his hand.

"Sorry to break your morning sleep, Brett," he said, "but something interesting has happened
in regard to that business you helped me with yesterday, and you may like to know. Crawl back
into bed if you like."

But I was already in my dressing-gown, and groping for my clothes. "No, no, come in and tell
me," I said. "What is it?"

Hewitt sat on the bed. "I'll tell you in due order," he said. "First, I saw Samuel again last
night--after you had gone away. You remember I went back to my office; I had a letter or two
to write which I had set aside in the afternoon. Well, I wrote the letters, shut up, and went
downstairs. I opened the outer door, and there was Samuel, in the act of ringing the housekeeper's
bell. He said he was very anxious, and couldn't sleep without coming to hear if I had made
any progress; he had called before, but I was out. I half thought of taking him back to my
office, but decided that it wasn't worth while. So I walked along to the corner of the Strand,
till I got him well under the lights. Then I stopped and talked to him. 'You ask about the
progress in your case, Mr. Samuel,' I said. 'Now, I have sometimes met people who seem to consider
me a sort of prophet, seer, or diviner. As a matter of fact, I am nothing but a professional
investigator, and even if I were possessed of such an amazing genius as I lay no claim to,
I could never succeed in a case, nor even make progress in it, if my client started me with
false information, or only told me half the truth. More, when I find that such is the state
of affairs, and that if I am to succeed I must begin by investigating my client before I proceed
with his case, I throw that case up on the instant--invariably. Do you understand that? Now
I must tell you that I have made no progress with your case, none; for that very reason.'"

"He protested, of course--vowed he had told me the simple truth, and so forth. I replied by
asking him certain definite questions. First, I asked him whose the diamonds were. He repeated
that they were his own. To that I simply replied, 'Good evening, Mr. Samuel,' and turned away.
He came after me beseechingly, and prevaricated. He said something about another party having
an interest, but the matter being confidential. To that I responded by asking him with whom
he had communicated before sending for me, and who was the person in the brougham which he
had twice entered. That flabbergasted him. He said that he couldn't answer those questions
without bringing other parties into the matter, to which I answered that it was just those
other parties that I meant to know about, if I were to move a step in the matter. At this he
got into a sad state--imploring, actually imploring, me not to desert him. He said he should
do something desperate--something terrible--that night if I didn't relieve his mind, and undertake
the case. What he meant he'd do I didn't know, of course, but it didn't move me. I said finally
that I would deal only with principals, and that until I had the personal instructions of the
actual owner of the diamonds, in addition to a complete explanation of the brougham incident,
I should do nothing, and I recommended him to go to the police; and with that I left him."

"And you got nothing more from him than that?"

"Nothing more; but it was something, you see. He admitted, to all intents, that the diamonds
were not his own. And now see here. I suppose I left him about ten o'clock. Here is a paragraph
in one of this morning's newspapers. It is only in the one paper; the matter seems to have
occurred rather late for press."

Hewitt gave me the paper in his hand, pointing to the following paragraph:

/#
     "HORRIBLE DISCOVERY.--A shocking discovery was made just before
     midnight last night, near the York column, where a police-constable
     found the dead body of a man lying on the stone steps. The body,
     which was fully clothed in the ordinary dress of a labouring man,
     bore plain marks of strangulation, and it was evident that a brutal
     murder had been committed. A singular circumstance was the presence
     of a curious reddish mark upon the forehead, at first taken for a
     wound, but soon discovered to be a mark apparently drawn or
     impressed on the skin. At the time of going to press, no arrest had
     been made, and so far the affair appears a mystery."
#/

"Well," I said, "this certainly seems curious, especially in the matter of the mark on the
forehead. But what has it all to do----"

"To do with Samuel and his diamonds, you mean? I'll tell you. That dead man is Denson!"

"Denson?" I exclaimed. "Denson? How?"

"I get it from the housekeeper next door. It seems that when the police came to examine the
body they found, among other things--money and a watch, and the like--a piece of an addressed
envelope, used to hold a few pins--the pins stuck in and the paper rolled up, you know. There
was just enough of it to guess the address by--that of the office next door; and it was the
only clue they had. So they came along here at once and knocked up the housekeeper. He went
with them and instantly recognised Denson, disguised in labourer's clothes, but Denson, he
says, unmistakably."

"And the mark on the forehead?"

"That is very odd. It is an outlined triangle, rather less than an inch along each side. It
is quite red, he says, and seems to be done in a greasy, sticky sort of ink or colour."

"Was anything found--the diamonds?"

"No. He says there was money--two or three five-pound notes, I believe, some small change,
a watch, keys and so forth; but there's not a word of diamonds."

I paused in my dressing. "Does that mean that the murderer has got them?" I asked. Hewitt pursed
his lips and shook his head. "It may mean that," he said, "but does it look altogether like
it when five-pound notes are left? On the other hand, there is the disguise; the only reason
that we know of for that would be that he was bolting with the diamonds. But the really puzzling
thing is the mark on the forehead. Why that? Of course, the picturesque and romantic thing
to suppose is that it is the mark of some criminal club or society. But criminal associations,
such as exist, don't do silly things like that. When criminals rob and murder, they don't go
leaving their tracks behind them purposely--they leave nothing that could possibly draw attention
to them if they can help it; also, they don't leave five-pound notes. But I'm off to have a
look at that mark. Inspector Plummer is in charge of the case--you remember Plummer, don't
you, in the Stanway Cameo case, and two or three others? Well, Plummer is an old friend of
mine, and not only am I interested in this matter myself, but now that it becomes a case of
murder, I must tell the police all I know, merely as a loyal citizen. I've an idea they will
want to ask our friend Mr. Samuel some very serious questions."

"Will you go now?"

"Yes, I must waste no more time. You get your breakfast and look out for me, or for a message."

Hewitt was off to Vine Street, and I devoted myself to my toilet and my breakfast, vastly mystified
by this tragic turn in a matter already puzzling enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not a messenger, but Hewitt himself, who came back in less than an hour. "Come," he
said, "Plummer is below, and we are going next door, to Denson's office. I've an idea that
we may get at something at last. The police are after Samuel hot-foot. They think he should
be made sure of in any case without delay; and I must say they have some reason, on the face
of it."

We joined Plummer at once--I have already spoken of Plummer in my accounts of several of Hewitt's
cases in which I met him--and we all turned into the office next door. There we found a very
frightened and bewildered office boy, whom Denson had given a holiday yesterday, after sending
him down to Samuel. He had come to his work as usual, only to meet the housekeeper's tale of
the murder of his master and the end of his business prospects. He had little or no information
to impart. He had only been employed for a month or six weeks, and during that time his work
had been practically nothing.

Plummer nodded at this information, and sniffed comprehensively at the office furniture. "I
know this sort o' stuff," he said. "This is the way they fit up long firm offices and such.
This place was taken for the job, that's plain, by one or both of 'em."

The boy's address was taken, and he was given a final holiday, and asked to send up the housekeeper
as he went out. Plummer passed Hewitt a bunch of keys.

The housekeeper entered. "Now, Hutt," said Martin Hewitt, "you were saying yesterday, I think,
that the main front door was the only entrance and exit for this building?"

"That's so, sir--the only one as anybody can use, except me."

"Oh! then there is another, then?"

"Well, not exactly to say an entrance, sir. There's a small private door at the back into the
court behind, but that's only opened to take in coals and such, and I always have the key.
This house isn't like yours, sir; you have no back way into the court as we have. It's a convenience,
sometimes."

"Ah, I've no doubt. Do you happen to have the key with you?"

"It's on the bunch hanging up in my box, sir. Shall I fetch it?"

"I should like to see it, if you will."

The housekeeper disappeared, and presently returned with a large bunch of keys.

"This is the one, Mr. Hewitt," he explained, lifting it from among the rest.

Hewitt examined it closely, and then placed beside it one from the bunch Plummer had given
him. "It seems you're not the only person who ever had a key exactly like that, Hutt," he said.
"See here--this was found in Mr. Denson's pocket."

Plummer nodded sagaciously. "All in the plant," he said. "See--it's brand new; clean as a new
pin, and file marks still on it."

"Take us to this back door, Hutt," Hewitt pursued. "We'll try this key. Is there a back staircase?"

There was a small back staircase, leading to the coal-cellars, and only used by servants. Down
this we all went, and on a lower landing we stopped before a small door. Hewitt slipped the
key in the lock and turned it. The door opened easily, and there before us was the little courtyard
which I think I have mentioned in one of my other narratives--the courtyard with a narrow passage
leading into the next street.

Martin Hewitt seemed singularly excited. "See there," he said, "that is how Denson left the
building without passing the housekeeper's box! And now I'm going to make another shot. See
here. This key on Denson's bunch attracted my attention because of its noticeable newness compared
with most of the others. Most of the others, I say, because there is one other just as bright--see!
This small one. Now, Hutt, do you happen to have a key like that also?"

Hutt turned the key over in his hand and glanced from it to his own bunch. "Why, yes, sir!"
he said presently. "Yes, sir! It's the same as the key of the fire-hose cupboards!"

"Does that key fit them all? How many fire-hose cupboards are there?"

"Two on each floor, sir, one at each end, just against the mains. And one key fits the lot."

"Show us the nearest to this door."

A short, narrow passage led to the main ground-floor corridor, where a cupboard lettered "Fire
Hose" stood next the main and its fittings. "We have to keep the hose-cupboards locked," the
housekeeper explained apologetically, "'cause o' mischievous boys in the offices."

This key fitted as well as the other. A long coil of brown leather hose hung within, and in
a corner lay a piece of chamois leather evidently used for polishing the brass fittings. This
Hewitt pulled aside, and there beneath it lay another and cleaner piece of chamois leather,
neatly folded and tied round with cord. Hewitt snatched it up. He unfastened the cord; he unrolled
the leather, which was sewn into a sort of bag or satchel; and when at last he spread wide
the mouth of this satchel, light seemed to spring from out of it, for there lay a glittering
heap of brilliants!

"What!" cried Plummer, who first got his speech. "Diamonds! Samuel's diamonds!"

"Diamonds, at any rate," replied Hewitt, "whether Samuel's or somebody else's. But they can't
have been there long. How often is this cupboard opened?"

"Every Saturday reg'lar, sir," replied the housekeeper; "just to dust it out and see things
is right."

"Now, see here!" said Martin Hewitt, "I've had luck in my conjectures as yet, and I'll try
again. Here is what I believe has happened. Every word that Samuel told me about the theft
of those diamonds was true, except as to their ownership. Denson has planned all along to rob
him of as big a collection of diamonds as he could prompt him to get together, and he has played
up to this for months. His smaller dealings one way and another were ground-bait. Very artfully
he let Samuel take the diamonds safely away once, in order that he should be less watchful
and less suspicious the second time. This second time he does the trick exactly as we see.
He hangs up the imaginary American's hat, he escapes by the fanlight, and he goes out by the
back way to avoid the housekeeper's observation. He has arranged beforehand for this, too.
He has seized an opportunity when the housekeeper has been out of his box to get wax impressions
of these two keys, and he has made copies of them. And here we come on a curious thing. It
is easy enough to understand why he should foresee and get himself a key for the back door,
in order to make his escape. But why the key of the hose-cupboard? Why, indeed, should he leave
the diamonds behind him at all? It is plain that he meant to come back for them--probably at
night. He would have been wholly free from observation in that quiet courtyard, and he could
let himself in, get the diamonds, and leave again without exciting the smallest alarm or suspicion.
But why take all the trouble? Why not stick to the plunder from the beginning? The plain inference
is that he feared somebody or something. He feared being stopped and searched, or he feared
being waylaid sometime during yesterday. By whom? There's the puzzle, and I can't see the bottom
of it, I confess. If I could, perhaps I might know something of last night's murder.

"As to Samuel's prevarications, there is only one explanation that will fit, now that the rest
is made clear. He must have been entrusted with these diamonds by a private owner, for sale--secretly.
Some lady of conspicuous position in difficulties, probably--perhaps unknown to her husband.
Such things occur every day. A common expedient is to sell the stones and have good paste substituted,
in the same settings. Samuel would be just the man to carry through a transaction of that sort.
That would account for everything. The jewels are en suite, cut, but unset--taken from a set
of jewellery, and paste substituted. Samuel arranges it all for the lady, finds a customer--Denson--who
treats him exactly as he has told us. When he realises the loss Samuel doesn't know what to
do. He mustn't call the police, being bound to secrecy on the lady's behalf. He sends her a
hasty message, and remains keeping watch by Denson's office. She hurries to him with all possible
secrecy, keeping her carriage blinds down; he dashes into the brougham to describe the disaster,
taking his case with him in his frantic desire to explain things fully. The lady fears publicity,
and won't hear of the police--she instructs him to consult me: and consequently, of course,
when I recommend communicating with the police he won't listen to the suggestion. Samuel has
arranged with the lady to hurry off and report progress as soon as he has consulted me, and
this he does, the lady having appointed Manchester Square for the interview. Perhaps she hints
some suspicion of Samuel's honesty--rather natural, perhaps, in the circumstances. That terrifies
him more than ever, and leads to his frantic appeals to me when I throw the case up. Come,
there's my guess at the facts of the case, and I'll back it with twopence and a bit more. Eh,
Plummer?"

"I don't take your bet," answered Plummer. "The thing's plain enough; except the murder. There's
something deeper there."

Hewitt became grave. "That's true," he said, "and something I can see no way into, as yet.
But come--you take this parcel of diamonds, as representing the law. And here comes one of
your men, I think."

We had been approaching the front door during this talk, and now a police constable appeared,
and saluted Plummer. "Samuel's just been brought in, sir," he reported. "He's half dead with
fright, and he's sent a message to Lady H---- in P---- Square; and he says he wants Mr. Martin
Hewitt to come and speak for him."

"Poor Samuel!" Hewitt commented. "Come, we'll go and make him happy. Here are the diamonds,
and, those safely accounted for, there's no evidence to connect him with the murder. We'll
get him out of the mess as soon as possible."

And so they did. Hewitt's reading of the case was correct to a tittle, as it turned out, and
with very little delay Samuel was released. But with the message from the police station, the
fat was in the fire as regarded Lady H----. Her husband necessarily became acquainted with
everything, and there was serious domestic trouble.

Samuel was glad enough to get quit of the business with no worse than a bad fright, as may
well be supposed. He showed himself most grateful to Hewitt in after times, giving him excellent
confidential advice and information more than once in matters connected with the diamond trade.
He is still in business, I believe, in a much larger way, and I have no doubt he is the wiser
for his experience, and for the lesson which Hewitt did not forget to rub well in: that it
is useless and worse to place a confidential matter in the hands of a man of Hewitt's profession,
and at the same time withhold particulars of the case, however unessential they may appear to be.

       *       *       *       *       *

But meantime, on the way to Vine Street I asked Hewitt what led him to suppose that the new
key on Denson's bunch fitted a lock in that particular office building.

"Call it a lucky guess, if you like," Hewitt answered; "but as a matter of fact it was prompted
by pure common sense. Plummer showed me the things found on the body, and I saw at once that
the keys offered the only chance of immediate information. I went through them one by one.
There was his latchkey--the key with which he had gone into his lodgings to fetch away the
disguise. There was another largish key, equally old--probably the key of his office door.
There were other smaller keys, also old--plainly belonging to bags and trunks and drawers and
so forth. And then there was the large, perfectly new key. What was that? It was not the key
of any bag or drawer, clearly--it was the key of a door--a door with a lever lock. What door?
Had Denson some other office? Perhaps he had, but first it was best to begin by trying it on
places we were already acquainted with. At once I thought of Denson's disappearance unobserved
by the housekeeper. Could this be the key of some private exit from the office building? I
resolved to test that conjecture first, and it turned out to be the right one. Being successful
so far, of course I turned to the other new key and tried that, as you saw."

"But what of that triangular mark on the man's forehead?"

Martin Hewitt became deeply thoughtful. "That," he said, "is a matter wholly beyond me at present,
as indeed is the whole business of the murder. Whether we shall ever know more I can't guess,
but the matter is deep--deep and difficult and dark. As to the mark itself, that seems to have
been impressed from an engraved stamp of some sort. It is a plain equilateral triangle in red
outline, measuring about an inch on each side. It is in a greasy, sticky sort of red ink, which
may be smeared, but is very difficult, if not impossible, to rub away. What it means I can't
at present conjecture. I have told you my reasons for not thinking it the sign of any gang
of criminals. But whose sign is it? Surely not that of some self-constituted punisher of crime?
For such a person, with no risk to himself, could have handed Denson over to the police, if
he knew of his offence. Can he have been murdered by an accomplice? But he used no accomplice;
if one thing is plain in all that story of the stolen diamonds it is that Denson did the thing
wholly by himself. Besides, an accomplice would have taken the keys and have gone and secured
the diamonds for himself; else why the murder at all? But no keys were taken--nothing was taken,
as far as we can tell. And why was the body placed in that conspicuous position? It is pretty
certain that the crime cannot have happened where the body was found--somebody must have heard
or seen a struggle in such a place as that. As it is, I should say, the body was probably brought
quietly to the spot in a cab, or some such conveyance.

"But mystery envelops this crime everywhere. So far as I can see, there is no clue whatever
beyond the Red Triangle, which, as yet, I cannot understand. The strangling points to the murder
being committed by a powerful man, certainly, and it is a form of crime that may have been
perpetrated silently. But beyond that I can see nothing. The apparent motivelessness of the
thing makes the mystery all the darker, and the circumstances we are acquainted with, instead
of helping us, seem to complicate the puzzle.

"What was it that Denson feared when he left those diamonds behind him, when he might have
carried them away? And why should he fear it in daytime and not at night, since it would seem
plain that he meant to have returned for the stones at night? Where did he go to disguise himself
yesterday--we know it was not in his lodgings--and where has he left the clothes he discarded?"

All these doubts and mysteries were destined to be cleared up, in more or less degree; but
it was not till Hewitt and I had witnessed other singular adventures that the answer came to
the problem, the real meaning of the Red Triangle was made apparent, and its connection with
the theft of Samuel's diamonds grew clear. For indeed the connection proved in the end to be
very intimate indeed. Once, a little later, we were allowed to see a shade farther into the
mystery, as I shall tell in the proper place; but even then the real secret remained hidden
from us till the appointed end.

So ended the case of Samuel's diamonds, so far as concerned Samuel himself and the owner; but
the case of the Red Triangle had only begun.

THE CASE OF MR. JACOB MASON

I

The mystery of Denson's death remained a mystery, despite all the police could do. The coroner's
jury returned a verdict of "Murder by some person or persons unknown"--which, indeed, was all
that could be expected of them; for they had no more before them than the bare fact that the
body, disguised in the clothes of a labourer, had been found on the steps near the Duke of
York's column, just before midnight, by a police constable. But for the housekeeper's identification,
even the name of the victim would have been unknown. The jury certainly wasted some time in
idle speculation as to the strange triangular mark found on the forehead, without a speck of
evidence to help them; but in the end they returned their verdict, and went home.

But the police knew a little more than the jury, though that little rather confused than helped
them. They exercised their judgment at the inquest in withholding all evidence of the theft
of diamonds on which the victim had been engaged, the curious particulars of which I have already
related. In this they followed their usual course in cases where the evidence withheld could
give the jury no help in arriving at their verdict, and at the same time might easily hamper
further investigations if revealed. For the theft had been frustrated by Martin Hewitt's exertions,
as we have seen, and in any case the thief was now dead and beyond the reach of human punishment.
The one matter now remaining for the police was inquiry into the murder of this same thief,
and the one object of their exertions the apprehension of the murderer or murderers.

The case, as I have already said, was in the hands of Inspector Plummer, an intelligent officer
and an old friend of Hewitt's. A few days' work after the inquest yielded Plummer so little
result that he called at Hewitt's office to talk matters over.

"I suppose," Plummer began, "it's no use asking if you've heard anything more of that matter
of Denson's murder?"

Hewitt shook his head. "I haven't heard a word," he said. "If I had, it would have come on
to you at once. But I hope you've had some luck yourself?"

"Not a scrap; time wasted; and the few off-chance clues I tried have led nowhere, so that I'm
where I was at the start. The thing is quite the oddest in all my experience. See how we stand.
Here's a man, Denson, who has just pulled off one of the cleverest jewel robberies ever attempted.
He so arranges it that he walks safely off with fifteen thousand pounds' worth of diamonds,
leaving the victim, Samuel, stuck patiently in an office for an hour or two before he even
begins to suspect anything is wrong, and then unable to set the police after him, for the reasons
you discovered. But this Denson doesn't carry the plunder off straightway, as he so easily
might have done--he conceals it in the very house where the robbery was committed, taking with
him a key by aid of which he may return and get it. Why? As you explained, it was probably
because he feared somebody--feared being stopped and searched on the day of the robbery--not
after, since it was plain he meant to return for his booty at night. Who could this have been,
and why did Denson fear him? Mystery number one. Then this Denson is found dead that same night
disguised in the clothes of a labourer, in a most conspicuous spot in London--the last place
in the world one would expect a murderer to select for depositing his victim's body, for it
is evidently not the place where the murder was committed. More, on the forehead there is this
extraordinary impressed mark of a Red Triangle. Now, what can all that mean? Robbery, perhaps
one thinks. But the body isn't robbed! There are three five-pound notes on it, besides a sovereign
or two and some small change, a watch and chain, keys and all the rest of it. Then one guesses
at the diamonds. Perhaps it was an accomplice in the robbery, who finds that Denson is about
to bolt with the whole lot. But if there's one thing plain in this amazing business it is that
Denson had no accomplice; he did the whole thing alone, as you discovered, and he needed no
help. More than that, if this were the work of an accomplice why didn't he get the jewels?
There were the keys to his hand and he left them! And would such a person actually go out of
his way to put the body where it must be discovered at once, instead of concealing it till
he could himself get away with the diamonds? Of course not. But there was no accomplice, and
it's useless to labour that farther. All these arguments apply equally against the theory that
it was the work of some criminal gang. They would have taken all they could get, notes, keys,
diamonds and all, and they wouldn't have been so foolish as to exhibit the body with that extraordinary
mark; criminal gangs are not such fools as to take unnecessary chances and gratuitously leave
tracks behind them, as you know well enough. Well then, there we stand. So far, do you see
any more in it than I do?"

Hewitt shook his head. "No," he said, "I can't say I do. All the considerations you have mentioned
have already occurred to me. I talked them over, in fact, with my friend Brett. My connection
with the case ceased, of course, with the discovery of the jewels, and about the murder I know
no more than has been told me. I never saw the body, and so had no opportunity of picking up
any overlooked clue; though doubtless you have seen to that. I know not a tittle more than
you have just summarised, and on that alone the thing seems mystery pure and unadulterated."

"All there is beyond that was ascertained by the divisional surgeon on examination of the body.
The man died from strangulation, as you know, and the natural presumption from that was that
the murderer must have been a powerful man. But the surgeon is of the positive opinion--he
is certain, in fact--that Denson was strangled with an instrument--a tourniquet."

"A tourniquet?"

"Yes, a surgeon's tourniquet, such as is used to compress a leg or arm and so stop a flow of
blood. He considers the marks unmistakable. Now that might point to the murderer being a medical
man."

"Conjecturally, yes; though, of course, it justifies nothing more than conjecture."

"Precisely. Well, that was something, but precious little. A tourniquet is a common thing enough--no
more than a band with screw fittings, and there was nothing to show that the tourniquet used
was any different from a thousand others; and I can see no particular reason why a doctor should
commit a murder like this any more than any other man; in which the divisional surgeon agreed
with me. And doctor or none, that Red Triangle was altogether unaccounted for. About that,
too, by the way, the divisional surgeon told me a little, but a very useless little. The mark
was not properly dried, owing to its slightly greasy nature, and although it was almost impossible
to remove it wholly, it was possible to scrape off a little of the ink, or colour. Here is
a little of it on a paper--quite dried now, of course."

Plummer carefully took from his pocket a small folded paper, unfolded it, and revealed a smaller
paper within. On this were two little smears of a bright red colour. "There--that's the stuff,"
he said. "The surgeon examined it, and he reports it to be rather oddly constituted--so as
to bear some affinity of meaning, possibly, to the triangle. For the stuff is a compound of
three substances--animal, vegetable and mineral; there is a fine vegetable oil, he says, some
waxy preparation, certainly of animal origin, and a mineral--cinnabar: vermilion, in fact.
But though there may be some connection between the triangle and the substances representing
the three natural kingdoms, it gives nothing practical--nothing to go on."

Martin Hewitt had been closely examining the marks on the paper, and now he answered, "I'm
not so sure of that, though, Plummer. I think at least that it gives us another conjecture.
I should guess that the man you want, as well as being acquainted with the use of the tourniquet,
has at some time travelled in, or to, China."

"Why?"

"Unless I am wider of the mark than usual, this is the pigment used on Chinese seals. A Chinaman's
seal acts for his signature on all sorts of documents; it is impressed or printed by hand pressure
from a little engraved stone die, precisely as this triangle seems to have been, and the ink
or colour is almost always red, compounded of vermilion, wax, and oil of sesamum."

Plummer sat up with a whistle. "Phew! Then it may have been done by a Chinaman!"

Hewitt shrugged his shoulders. "It's possible," he said; "of course, though, the sign, the
triangle, is not a Chinese character. As a character, of course it is the Greek Delta. But
it may be no character at all. In the signs of the ancient Cabala, the triangle, apex upward
as it was in this case, was the symbol of fire; apex downward, it signified water."

Plummer patted the side of his head distractedly. "Heavens!" he said, "don't tell me I'm to
search all China, and Greece, and--wherever the cabalistic pundits come from!"

"Well, no," Hewitt answered with a smile. "I think I should, at any rate, begin in this country.
I rather think you might make a beginning at Denson. That is what I should do if the case were
mine. See if anything can be ascertained of his previous life--probably under another name
or names. He may have been in China. Yes, certainly, as we stand at present, I should begin
at Denson."

"I think I will," the inspector replied, "though there's precious little to begin on there.
I'd like to have you with me on this job, but, of course, that's impossible, since it's purely
a police matter. But something, some information, may come your way, and in that case you'll
let me know at once, of course."

"Of course I shall--it's a serious matter, as well as a strange one. I wish you all luck!"

Plummer departed to grapple with his difficulties, but in fact it was Hewitt who first heard
fresh news of the Red Triangle, and that from a wholly unexpected quarter.

It was, indeed, only two days after Plummer's visit that Kerrett brought into Hewitt's private
room the card of the Rev. James Potswood, with a request for a consultation. Mr. Potswood's
name was known to Hewitt, as, indeed, it was to many people, as that of a most devoted clergyman,
rector of a large parish in north-west London, who devoted not only all his time and personal
strength to his work, but also spent every penny of his private income on his parish. It was
not a small income that Mr. Potswood spent in this unselfish way, for he came of a wealthy
family, and though a good part of his parish was inhabited by well-to-do people, there was
quite enough poverty and distress in the poorer quarters to cause this excellent man often
to regret that his resources were not even larger. He was a spare active grey-whiskered man
of nearly sixty, with prominent and not very handsome features, though his face was full of
frank and simple kindliness.

"My errand, Mr. Hewitt," he said, "is of a rather vague, not to say visionary, character, and
I doubt if you can help me. But at any rate I will explain the trouble as well as I can. In
the first place, am I right in supposing that you were in some way professionally engaged in
connection with that extraordinary case of murder a week or so ago--the case in which a man
named Denson was found dead on the steps by the Duke of York's column?"

"Yes--and no," Hewitt answered. "I was professionally engaged on a certain matter about which
you will not wish me to particularise--since it is the business of a client--and in course
of it I came upon the other affair."

"Then before I ask what you know of that mysterious event, Mr. Hewitt, I will tell you my story,
so that you may judge whether you are able to reveal anything, or to do anything. Of course,
what I say is in the strictest confidence."

"Of course."

"I have a parishioner, a Mr. Jacob Mason, of whom I have seen very little of late years--scarcely
anything at all, in fact, till a few days ago. He is fairly well to do, I believe, living a
somewhat retired life in a house not far from my rectory. For many years he has laboured at
natural science--chemistry in particular--and he has a very excellently fitted laboratory attached
to his house. He is a widower, with no children of his own, but his orphan niece, a Miss Creswick,
lives under his guardianship. Mr. Mason was never a very regular church-goer, but years ago
I saw much more of him than I have of late. I must be perfectly frank with you, Mr. Hewitt,
if you are to help me, and therefore I must tell you that we disagreed on points of religion,
in such a way that I found it difficult to maintain my former regard for Mr. Mason. He had
a curiously fantastic mind, and he was constantly being led to tamper with things that I think
are best left alone--what is called spiritualism, for instance, and that horrible form of modern
superstition which we hear whispers of at times from the Continent--the alleged devil-propitiation
or worship. It was not that he did anything I thought morally wrong, you understand--except
that he dabbled. And he was always running after some new thing--animal magnetism, or telepathy,
or crystal-gazing, or theosophy, or some one of the score of such things that have an attraction
for a mind of that sort. And it was a characteristic of each new enthusiasm with him that it
prompted him to try to convert me; and that in such terms--terms often applied to the doctrines
of that religion of which I am a humble minister--as I could in nowise permit in my presence.
So that our friendly intercourse, though not interrupted by any definite breaking off, fell
away to almost nothing. For which reason I was a little surprised to receive a visit from Mr.
Mason on the afternoon of the day on which the newspapers printed the report of the finding
of the body of Denson. You may remember that only one morning paper mentioned the matter, and
that very briefly; but there were full reports in all the evening papers."

"Yes, the discovery was made very late the previous night."

"So I gathered. Well, I was told that Mr. Mason had been shown into my study, and there I found
him. He was in an extremely nervous and agitated state, and he had an evening paper in his
hand. With scarcely a preliminary word he burst out, 'Have you seen this in the paper? This--this
murder? There--there's the report.' And he thrust the paper into my hands.

"I had not seen or heard anything of the matter, in fact, till that moment, and now he gave
me little leisure to read the report. He walked up and down the room, nervously clasping his
hands, sometimes together, sometimes at his sides, sometimes before him, shaking his head in
a shuddering sort of way, and bursting out once or twice as though the words were uncontrollable,
'What ought I to do? What can I do?'

"I looked up from the paper, and he went on, 'Have you read it? It's a murder--a horrid murder.
The poor wretched fellow was trying to escape, but he couldn't. It's a murder!'

"'It certainly seems so,' I said. 'But what--did you know this man, Denson?'

"'No, of course not,' Mason replied, 'but there it is, plain enough, and here's another paper
with just the same report, but a little shorter.' He pulled the second paper from his pocket.
'I got what different papers I could, but these are the two fullest. It's plain enough it's
a brutal murder, isn't it? And the man was a merchant, or an agent, or something, in Portsmouth
Street, but he was found in labourer's clothes--proof that he feared it and was trying to escape
it; but he couldn't--he couldn't--no! nor anybody. It's awful, awful!'

"'But I don't understand,' I said. 'Won't you sit down?' For Mason continued to pace distractedly
about the room. 'What is it you think this unfortunate man was trying to escape? And what am
I to do in the matter?'

"He stopped, pressed both hands to his head, and seemed to control himself by a great effort.
'You must excuse me,' he said. 'I'm a bit run down lately, and my nerves are all wrong. I'm
talking rather wildly, I'm afraid. I really hardly know why I came to you, except that I haven't
a soul I can talk to about--well, about anything, scarcely.'

"He took a chair, and sat for a little while with his head forward on his hand and his eyes
directed towards the floor. Then he said, in a musing way, rather as though he was thinking
aloud than talking to me, 'You were right, after all, Potswood, and I was a fool to disregard
your warnings. I oughtn't to have dabbled--I should have left those things alone.'

"I said nothing, thinking it best not to disturb him, but to leave him free to say what he
wanted to say in his own way. He remained quiet for a minute or two more, and then sat up with
an appearance of much greater composure. 'You mustn't mind me, Potswood,' he said. 'As I've
told you, I'm in a bad state of nerves, and at best I'm an impulsive sort of person, as you
know. I needn't have bothered you like this--I came rushing round here without thinking, and
if the house had been a bit farther off I should have come to my senses before I reached you.
After all, there's nothing so much to disturb one's-self about, and this man--this Denson--may
very well have deserved his fate. Don't you think that likely?'

"He added this last question with an involuntary eagerness that scarcely accorded with the
indifferent tone with which he had begun. I answered guardedly. I said of course nobody could
say what the unhappy man's sins might have been, but that whatever they were they could never
justify the fearful sin of murder. 'And,' I added, 'if you know anything of the matter, Mason,
or have the smallest suspicion as to who is the guilty person, I'm sure you won't hesitate
in your duty.'

"'My duty?' he said. 'Oh yes, of course; my duty. You mean, of course, that any law-abiding
citizen who knows of evidence should bring it out. Just so. Of course I haven't any evidence--that
paper gave me the first news of the thing.'

"'I think,' I rejoined, 'that anybody who was possessed of even less than evidence--of any
suspicion which might lead to evidence--should go at once and place the authorities in possession
of all he knows or suspects.'

"'Yes,' he said--very calmly now, though it seemed at cost of a great effort--'so he should;
so he should, no doubt, in any ordinary case. But sometimes there are difficulties, you know--great
difficulties.' He stopped and looked at me furtively and uneasily. 'A man might fear for his
own safety--he might even know that to say what he knew would be to condemn himself to sudden
death; and more, perhaps, more. Suppose--it might be, you know--suppose, for instance, a man
was placed between the alternatives of neglecting this duty and of breaking a--well an oath,
a binding oath of a very serious--terrible--character? An oath, we will say, made previously,
without any foreknowledge of the crime?'

"I said that any such oath taken without foreknowledge of the crime could not have contemplated
such an event, and that however wrong the taking of such an oath might have been in itself,
to assist in concealing such a crime as this murder was infinitely worse--infinitely worse
than taking the oath, and infinitely worse than breaking it. Though as to the latter, I repeated
that any such engagement made without contemplation or foreknowledge of such a crime would
seem to be void in that respect. I went further--much further. I conjured him to make no secret
of anything he might know, and not to burden his conscience with complicity--for that was what
concealment would amount to--in such a terrible crime. I added some further exhortations which
I need not repeat now, and presently his assumed calmness departed utterly, and he became even
more agitated than when first he came. He would say nothing further, however, and in the end
he went away, saying he would 'think over the matter very seriously.'

"It was quite plain to me that my poor friend was suffering acutely from the burden of some
terrible secret, and that in his impulsive way he had rushed to confide in me at the first
shock of the news of this murder, and that afterwards his courage had failed him. But I conceived
it my duty not to allow such a matter to stand thus. Therefore, giving Mason a few hours for
calm consideration, I called on him in the evening. I was told that he was not very well and
had gone to bed; he had, however, left a message, in case I should call, to the effect that
he would come and see me in the morning. I waited the whole of that next morning and the whole
of the afternoon, and saw nothing of him. In the evening urgent parish work took me away, but
next morning I called again at Mason's house and saw him. This time he avoided the subject--tried
to dodge it, in fact. But I was not to be denied, and the result was another scene of alternate
agitation and forced calmness. I will not weary you, Mr. Hewitt, with useless repetition, but
I may say that I have seen Mason twice since then without bringing him to any definite resolve.
As a matter of fact, I believe that he is restrained from saying anything further by fear--sheer
terror. He has even gone so far as to deny absolutely that he knows anything of the matter--and
then has contradicted himself a minute afterwards. At last, this morning, I have brought him
a degree further. In the last few days I made it my business to acquaint myself, as far as
possible, with the exact circumstances of the tragedy, so far as they are known, and in course
of my inquiries I saw the housekeeper of the offices next door--the man who identified the
body as Denson's. He either could not, or would not, tell me very much, but he did say that
you had been working in some way in connection with the case, and that you knew as much of
it as anybody. That gave me an idea. This morning I told Mason that not only he, but I also
had a duty in respect to this matter, and my duty was to see that nothing in connection with
such a crime as this should be hushed up on any consideration or for anybody's fancies. I said
that if he liked he need tell me no more, but might take you into consultation professionally,
as your client, allowing me first to see you and to assure you that, consistently with his
own safety, he was anxious to further the ends of justice. I said that, as your client, your
first duty would be to protect him, that your professional practice would keep your mouth absolutely
sealed, and that you already knew a good deal about the crime--perhaps more than he suspected.
I protested that this seemed to me the very least he could do, and I warned him that if he
refused to do even this, I should have to consider whether it was consistent with my character,
as a clergyman and a loyal citizen, any longer to conceal the fact that he was keeping back
information that might lead to the apprehension of the murderer. This frightened him, and between
the fear of the threat and the fear that you might already know more than he suspected, he
authorised me--he was even eager about it--to come and see you; always, of course, under a
pledge of strict professional secrecy."

"So far your account is quite clear, Mr. Potswood," Hewitt said. "You have done your best,
now I must do mine. You wish me to see Mason at once, no doubt?"

"I arranged to bring you to his house, if you were willing and your engagements permitted,
at three this afternoon. Will that do? I have been keeping you, I see--it is past one already.
Will you lunch with me at my club?"

"With great pleasure--more especially as I have a few questions to ask as we go along. Is it far?"

"Just at this end of Pall Mall--we will walk, if you like."

"Tell me now," said Hewitt as they went, "anything you know about Mr. Mason's habits, family
connections, and so forth, as fully and as minutely as you please. Has he any friends connected
with China, for instance?"

"China? Why, no, I think not; except--but I'll tell you all I know. Mr. Mason has no family
connections, so far as I am aware--at any rate, in London--except his niece, Miss Creswick.
She is within a few months of twenty-one, a charming girl, but horribly shut in, for Mason
has almost no visitors. Miss Creswick was his sister's daughter; she lost her mother first
and then her father, and was left to the guardianship of her uncle. He was also trustee under
the will, and he has, I believe, discretion to keep charge of her property, if he thinks fit,
till she reaches the age of twenty-five; though in case of his death she is to inherit in the
ordinary way, on coming of age. She is a very dutiful and, indeed, an affectionate niece; though
I must say he is scarcely fair to her, keeping her, as he does, so completely secluded from
the society of young people of her own age. Mere thoughtlessness, I think; he has had no children
of his own, his mind is wholly occupied with his science and his fads, and he makes himself
a recluse without a thought of the girl. And that brings me to what I was about to say at first,
when you asked me if Mr. Mason had any friends connected with China. There is a young doctor--Lawson
is his name--some very distant connection of the family, I think, who had a professional appointment
of some sort in Shanghai for a year or two, but who is now in London trying to work up a small
practice of his own. If you hadn't mentioned China I shouldn't have thought of him, since he
never goes to the house now--or, at any rate, is supposed not to go."

"Doesn't go to the house? And why is that?"

"Well, there was a disagreement. What it was I don't quite know, but in the first place it
had some connection with some of Mason's experiments--something which Lawson declined to help
him with for professional reasons, or else something he declined to do for Lawson, I don't
know which. But the thing went further, for, as a matter of fact, there was something between
the young people--Lawson is only twenty-eight--and Mason put an end to that. It had been something
like a formal engagement, I think, but in the quarrel--Mason was always quarrelling with somebody
when he had friends, and that's why he has so few now--in the quarrel things were said that
ended in a rupture. Whether young Lawson was fortune-hunting or not I cannot say, but Mason
certainly accused him of it, and promised to keep back the girl's money as long as he could.
In the meantime Mason declared an end to the engagement, and poor Helen was broken-hearted;
for as I have said, she is an affectionate girl, and she hadn't a friend to confide in. But
I'm boring you--you don't want to know all these things, surely?"

"On the contrary, I can't possibly know too much, and the particulars can't possibly be too
minute. Nine cases out of ten I bring to an issue by means of a triviality. You were saying
a little while back that there were almost no visitors at Mr. Mason's house; but you said 'almost,'
and that means there are some. Who are they?"

"Very occasionally--rarely, in fact--there are one or two members of learned societies with
whom he had been in correspondence, or who are old friends. There is a Professor Hutton and
a Dr. Burge, I believe; but they don't appear once in six months; and there is Mr. Everard
Myatt, who is more frequent. He does not profess to be a great man of science, but he is interested
in chemistry as an amateur, and is, I fancy, a sort of disciple of Mason's. He has noticed
a sad difference in Mason just lately, and he even called on me yesterday, though I hardly
knew him by sight, in the hope that I would back up his urgent suggestion that Mason should
go off for a change and a rest. Beyond these I don't think I know of a single visitor. But
here we are at the Megatherium."

II

Mr. Jacob Mason's house stood in its own grounds in a quiet suburban road. It was not a very
large house, but it straggled about comfortably in the manner of detached houses built in the
suburbs at a time when space was less valuable than now, and it consisted of two floors only.
The front door was not far from the road, and was clearly visible to passengers who might chance
to look through either of the two iron gates that opened one on each end of the semi-circular
drive.

All these things Martin Hewitt noticed as the Rev. Mr. Potswood pushed open one of these gates,
and the two walked up the drive. The front door stood in a portico, and a French window gave
access to the roof of this portico from a bedroom or dressing-room. As Hewitt and his companion
approached the house the French window was pushed open, and a man appeared--a middle-aged,
slightly stoutish man with a short, grey beard; commonplace enough in himself, but now convulsed
with noisy anger, shaking his fists and stamping on the portico-roof.

"Get out!" he shouted. "Don't come near my house again, or I'll have you flung out! Go away
and take your friends with you! D'you hear? Go away, sir, and don't come here annoying me!
Go! Go at once!"

Mr. Potswood absolutely staggered with amazement. "Why," he gasped, "it's Mason! He's mad--clean
mad! Why, Mason, my poor friend, don't you know me?"

"Get out, I say!" cried Mason. "Give me no more of your talk! I won't have you here!" And now
Hewitt caught a glimpse of a girl's face at the window behind the man--a pale and handsome
face, drawn with anxiety and fear.

Hewitt seized the clergyman quickly by the arm. "Come," he whispered hurriedly, "come away
at once. There is a reason for this. Get away at once. If you can answer back angrily, do so,
but at any rate, come away."

He hurried back to the gate, half dragging the astounded rector, who was all too honest a soul
to be able to counterfeit an anger he did not feel, even if his amazement had not made him
speechless. Hewitt closed the gate behind him and said as he walked, "Where is the rectory?
We will go there. He may have sent a message while you were out."

Mechanically the rector took the first turning. "But he's mad!" he protested. "Mad, poor fellow!
Merciful heavens, Mr. Hewitt, his whole tale must have been a delusion! A mere madman's fancy!
Poor fellow! We must go back, Mr. Hewitt--we really must! We can't leave that poor girl there
alone with a raving maniac!"

"No," Hewitt insisted, "come to the rectory. That is no madness, Mr. Potswood. Couldn't you
see the colour of the man under the eyes, and the shaking of his beard? That was not anger
and it was not madness. It was terror, Mr. Potswood--sheer, sick terror! Terror, or some emotion
very much like it."

"But, if terror, why that outburst? What does it mean? If it were terror, why not rather welcome
our company and help?"

"Don't you see, Mr. Potswood?" answered Hewitt. "Don't you guess? Mason is watched, and he
knows it! He was acting his anger before unseen eyes--and he knew they were on him!"

"God be merciful to us all," ejaculated the clergyman. "Poor man--poor sinner! What is this
unspeakable thing which has him in its clutches? What had he done to give himself over to such
a power?"

"We can tell nothing, and guess nothing, as yet," Hewitt answered. "Let us see if he has sent
you a message. It seems likely. If he has it may help us. If not--then I think we must do something
decisive at once. But don't hurry so! It is hard to restrain one's self, I know, but there
may be eyes on us, Mr. Potswood, and we must not seem to be persisting in our errand."

So they went through the quiet streets for the two or three furlongs that seemed so many miles
to the good parson. Arrived at the rectory, Mr. Potswood pushed impatiently through the gate,
and was hurrying toward the house, when he perceived a bent little old man standing among some
shrubs with his own gardener, who was digging.

"There's Mason's gardener!" the rector exclaimed, and went to meet him.

The old man touched his hat, looked sharply towards Hewitt, who was waiting near the rectory
door, and then disappeared round a corner of the house, the rector following. In a few seconds
Mr. Potswood reappeared, with a slip of paper in his hand. "Here," he said, "see this! The
old man was told to give it to nobody but me, and in nobody else's presence. He's been waiting
since one o'clock."

Scrawled on the paper, in trembling and straggling letters, were these words:--

/#
     "You must not bring Mr. Martin Hewitt to my house this afternoon. I
     am watched. It is hopeless. Do not desert me. Bring him to-night
     after dark at eight. I shall want his best skill, and you shall
     know all. After dark. Come to the back gate in the lane, which will
     be ajar, and through the conservatory at the side, where my niece
     will be waiting at eight, after dark. Burn this and do not let it
     out of your sight first. Send a line by this man to say you will do
     as I ask, but do not say what it is, for fear of accidents. Send at
     once. Do come at eight, with Mr. Hewitt."
#/

"We must do as he says," remarked Hewitt. "We know nothing of this matter, and we must be guided
till we do. Just write an unsigned note--'All shall be as you request,' or words to that effect,
and be sure the man gives it to him. Let him out behind through the churchyard, if possible,
and tell him not to go straight from one house to the other. Is he an intelligent man?"

"Yes--uncommonly shrewd, I believe. He says he can't have been followed. He knows several gardeners
hereabout, and he seems to have called on each of them on his way--in at the front of the garden
and out at the back each time, after a few minutes' conversation. Gipps is rather a cunning
old fellow."

"Ah," said Hewitt admiringly, "that's the sort of messenger I often want. I'll give him half
a crown for himself and the money to pay for a telegram on his way. He knows nothing essential,
of course?"

"No--only that his master is in some sort of trouble, and warned him that he might be followed."

"That is good. I shall telegraph to Detective-Inspector Plummer, of Scotland Yard. All right--I
quite understand that all I have heard is confidential. I shall tell Plummer nothing till I
may--indeed, as yet I have very little to tell that would help him. But I think it will be
well to have the police within call--we may want them at a moment's notice; I have no police
powers, you see, and Plummer has the Denson case in hand. I will ask him to be here, at this
house, before a quarter to eight, if you will allow me."

And so the telegram went to Plummer, and Hewitt, accepting the rector's invitation to an early
dinner before starting on their visit, resigned himself to wait. He did not like the waste
of time, as he frankly told Mr. Potswood. He would have preferred to see Mason at once, at
any risk, and to take what means he thought necessary without delay. But as it seemed that
the risk was to be chiefly Mason's, and as Mason knew all of which both he and the rector were
ignorant, Mason must be allowed to choose his own time.

The excellent Mr. Potswood endured agonies of suspense, though he also insisted that Mason's
wishes must be observed exactly. "What is it all--what can it be?" he ejaculated again and
again. "What dreadful influence can thus compass a man about, here in London, in these times?"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was autumn, and night fell early. Dinner was over at last, and they had scarcely left the
table when Plummer arrived, anxious and eager.

"You'll have to trust me a little, Plummer," Hewitt said, when he had made him known to the
rector. "I can tell you nothing now--know nothing, in fact, or very little more than nothing.
The fact is, I'm going to see a man who promises information to me alone, in confidence, as
his client, and I don't know how long I may have to keep you in the dark. But this is where
the trail lies hot, and I know that's where you want to be. More, if you're wanted suddenly
you'll be at hand. You have a man or two with you, I suppose, as I suggested?"

"Three of the best of them. They will follow us up. Is it far?"

"No, close enough. It is a house in a walled garden--not a high wall. We go in at a gate from
the lane behind, and I think you should wait at that gate, and put your men at hand. We mustn't
go in as a crowd. The rector had better go first, and you and I will follow on the opposite
side of the road."

So the procession was formed, and it was still some three minutes short of eight o'clock when
Hewitt and Plummer joined the clergyman at the door in the garden wall behind Mason's house.
The door was ajar as had been promised in Mason's note. Leaving Plummer on guard without, Martin
Hewitt and the rector stepped as silently as possible through the little kitchen garden and
across a strip of lawn toward where a dull light illuminated the conservatory, at the right-hand
end of the house. The door of the conservatory was ajar also, and this the rector pushed open.

"Miss Creswick!" the rector called, in a loud whisper. "Miss Creswick!" And with that a girl
appeared within.

"Oh, Mr. Potswood," she said, "I'm so glad you've come! I can't think what's wrong with poor
uncle! I'm afraid he must be going mad! He is terrified at something, and he has been getting
worse, till he could hardly speak or walk. Dr. Lawson has been--about an hour ago, and since
then uncle has been much quieter, in his study."

They were entering the dimly-lighted drawing-room now. "Dr. Lawson?" queried the rector. "Rather
an unusual visitor, isn't he? How long has he been gone?"

Miss Creswick flushed slightly through all her paleness and grief. "I don't know," she said.
"He let himself out, I fancy. He said he could not stay long when he came, but I didn't hear
him go; I have been upstairs, and the servants are in the kitchen--they say uncle's mad, and
I'm really afraid he is!"

They left the drawing-room, and walked along the corridor and the hall to the opposite side
of the house, where the study lay. Miss Creswick tapped gently at the door, but there was no
answer. She tapped again, louder, and then came the faint sound of a quick step on the carpet,
and then a slight scraping noise, as when a door is closed over a carpet it will scarcely pass.
"That's the window into the garden," said Miss Creswick. "Why is he going out? Uncle! Uncle Jacob!"

But now the silence was wholly unbroken. Hewitt snatched quickly at the door-handle. "Locked!"
he said. "Come--the quickest way into the garden!"

They ran out at the front door, and round toward the study window. It was a French window,
exactly at the opposite end of the house to the conservatory, and now the gas-light streamed
out through one half of it, which stood curtainless and ajar, while the curtain was drawn across
the other half. Hewitt was the least familiar with the place, but he was quickest on his legs,
and more seriously alarmed than the others. He reached the window first--and instantly turned
and thrust the rector back against Miss Creswick. "Quick! take her away," he said; "we are
too late!" and in the same moment, even as Hewitt dashed over the threshold, he snatched a
whistle from his pocket, and blew his hardest.

There on the floor lay Mason, his face dreadful and staring and black; tight in his neck was
the band of a tourniquet, and fresh and wet on his forehead was the Red Triangle.

Hewitt snatched at the screw of the tourniquet behind the neck, and loosened it as quickly
as hands could turn. But it was too late. Too late, the examining surgeon afterwards said,
by a quarter of an hour.

Plummer was at the window with his men at his heels even before the tourniquet was half unscrewed.

"Round the wall of the garden," shouted Hewitt, "and whistle up the police! He's only this
moment out!"

The house was alive with shouts and screams. The rector came running back, and Hewitt, busy
with his useless attempt at restoration, called now for a doctor. People were scampering in
the street, and Hewitt left the victim to the care of the rector, and himself joined Plummer,
all in fewer seconds than it may be told in.

But Plummer and his men were beaten, for nothing--not so much as a moving shadow--was seen
in the garden or about the walls. Worse, the general trampling would obliterate possible tracks.
Plummer set a guard of police about the wall, and came in for consultation with Hewitt.

The body was carried into another room, and Hewitt and Plummer began an examination of the study.

"No signs of a struggle," commented Plummer, "and there was no noise, they say. That's very odd."

"From what I have seen and heard to-day," said Hewitt, "it is as I should have expected. I
believe the man was almost killed by terror before he was strangled--dazed, stricken dumb,
paralysed, deafened by it--everything but blinded, poor wretch. And to have been blinded would
have been a mercy."

And then, as they made their examination systematically, calmly and without flurry, Hewitt
told the whole tale of his day's adventures, together with all he had heard from the rector.
"The man's dead," he said, "and his confidence is at an end. Indeed, I never had it--the case,
so far as I am concerned, is over before I have even touched it. I haven't had a chance, Plummer;
and the thing is deep and dark, deep and dark. Oh, if only the man had let me come to him in
the daylight, spite of all! This might all have been averted.... There has been a close search
here, too. See how everything is turned over. But, stay!"

A low fire smouldered in the grate, and on it lay ashes of many burnt papers. Hewitt passed
the shovel carefully under these ashes, lifted them out and placed them gently on the table
under the light of the gas-pendant.

"I must leave you," said Plummer. "There'll be an inspector here from the station in a moment--he
won't interfere with you, and if anybody can get information out of this room it's you. The
next thing for me is plain. I must make sure of Dr. Lawson, if he can be found."

"That is quite right, without a doubt," Hewitt responded. "I may find anything or nothing in
this room, and, meanwhile, he was the last person known to have been here, and the only visitor,
and he was not heard to go out, unless we heard him go when we were outside the study door.
More, it was plainly some one familiar with the place who was able to get away so quickly by
the window and the garden."

"And his interest in getting rid of Mason, too--the girl of age in a few months, and all obstacles
to getting hold of her, and her money, removed. And--and the surgical tourniquet, the Chinese
colour and everything!"

"Quite right, you must make sure of him, as you say. You will get his address from the rector.
Meanwhile I'll try to begin my little contribution to the case--to begin it as best I can,
after all the chances have made it useless."

III

It was after nine when Plummer returned. The rector had just rejoined Hewitt in the study,
having left poor Miss Creswick, utterly broken down, in her room, in charge of a scarcely less
terrified servant. Plummer tapped, and pushed the study door open.

"That's done clean and sure enough," he said, with professional calmness. "And he's a cool
hand, is that Dr. Lawson. But have you found anything more? We shall want all we can get."

"We shall," Hewitt assented, "and we shall find more than we've got now, or I'm grievously
mistaken. But tell me first what you've done."

He removed the blotting pad, on which the paper ashes still lay, and very carefully shut it
away in a wide drawer where no draught could disturb it; he also shut another drawer which
stood open.

"We had no difficulty in finding Dr. Lawson," Plummer began. "We met him, in fact, leaving
his surgery. I went back with him into the gas-light, and there put it to him plump. Well,
he was staggered, badly. Any man would be, of course. But he pulled himself together wonderfully
soon, and the first thing he said was that he was just on his way to Mason's house. I thought
at first, of course, that he meant to deny that he had been there already, and I gave him the
usual warning about what he said being used in evidence. But he went on, and I've got it all
safely noted. He admitted that he had been here, at about seven o'clock or just before, and
he said he came because Mr. Mason sent for him. That doesn't seem likely, does it, on the facts
as we know them?"

"Why, no," said the rector. "The last time he was here he was ordered out, and I know of no
reason why he should have been asked to come to-day. We must ask if anybody was sent."

"I have asked," replied Plummer, "just now, and none of the servants was sent. But Lawson's
story is that he was sent for and came, though he said he shouldn't say what Mason wanted to
see him about till he knew more of the case. Looks as though he hadn't quite got his story
ready yet, doesn't it? He had thought over the point about not being seen to go away, though;
he said he had let himself out at about half-past seven, being familiar with the ways of the
house. And he said that Mason was rather unwell--nervously upset--when he left him, but that
was all."

"It's terrible," said the rector, "terrible. It seems impossible to believe it of young Lawson;
and yet--and yet!" And then after a pause--"Good heavens!" he burst out again. "Why, I only
realise it now! There is the other crime, too! Denson! Two murders! Two--and most certainly
by the same hand! Mr. Plummer, I can't believe it! Oh, there's more behind, more behind, Mr.
Hewitt."

"There is more," said Hewitt, "as you will see when I tell you the little I have been able
to ascertain. There is more behind, though I see little of it yet. First----"

There was a sharp knock at the front door, followed by a ring, muffled in the distant kitchen.
Hewitt started up. "Who is this late visitor at this unvisited house?" he said. "If it is the
police, well enough. But if anybody else--anybody--you may call me Doctor, or anything you
please, except Martin Hewitt. Don't forget that!"

There were hurried steps in the hall, a question or two, and the study door was pushed open.
Two servants--they would not venture from the kitchen singly this dreadful night--made a confused
announcement of "Mr. Myatt," and were instantly pushed aside by Mr. Myatt himself, anxious
and agitated.

The late Mr. Mason's closest scientific friend was a palish, black-bearded man, of above middle
height, with stooping shoulders and a very quick pair of eyes. There was something about his
face that somehow reminded Hewitt of portraits he had seen of John Knox, and yet it was not
such a face as his; it seemed oddly unlike in its very likeness.

"What is this dreadful news, Mr. Potswood?" he cried. "I heard people talking in the next street
on my way home. Is it true? But the servants have told me so. They say our poor friend--but
there has been an arrest, hasn't there?"

The rector nodded gravely.

"And who? Tell me about it, Mr. Potswood--tell me!"

"I think I must see how Miss Creswick is doing," said Hewitt, speaking across to Plummer and
making for the door.

"Certainly, doctor, certainly!" answered Plummer with a nod.

Hewitt closed the door behind him, leaving the rector in the full tide of his account of the
day's events; but Hewitt's way took him to the kitchen, where the servants were cowering and
whispering together, frightened and bewildered.

"Is there any paint or varnish of any sort in the place?" he asked sharply. "Give me anything
there is--black, if possible--and a brush, quickly."

"There's--there's Brunswick black, sir, for the stove," said the cook.

"That will do; be quick. Oh, there's Gipps, the gardener! You're just the man I want, Gipps.
Come and find me a board or a plank, quick as you please!" And Hewitt pushed the old gardener
before him into the garden by the kitchen door.

       *       *       *       *       *

A quarter of an hour later, Mr. Everard Myatt, having heard all that was to be told of his
friend's terrible death and the arrest of Mr. Lawson, turned to go, meeting Hewitt at the study
door on his way.

"And how is poor Miss Creswick by now, doctor?" he asked anxiously.

Hewitt shook his head. "No better than you could expect," he said, "but, on the whole, no worse.
She mustn't be seen to-night, of course, but, perhaps, if you could call round in the morning
with the rector----"

"Of course--of course! Poor girl--and Dr. Lawson suspected, too--what a terrible blow for her!
Anything I can do, doctor, of course, as I said to Mr. Potswood--anything I can do I will do
as gladly as such sad circumstances permit."

The rector had been coming to the door with Mr. Myatt, but Plummer, catching a sign from Hewitt,
restrained him unseen, and Hewitt and the visitor walked into the hall together.

"They have put out the light, it seems," Hewitt said. "I wonder why--unless people from the
crowd have been coming into the garden and staring in through the glass panels. I wonder if
we can find the door-handle. Yes, here it is. Dark outside, too! Good-night--mind how you go
on the steps!"

Mr. Myatt checked and stumbled in the dark porch, and reached quickly downward.

"There's a board standing across the porch," he said.

"A board?" replied Hewitt. "So there is. Let me move it, or it'll upset somebody. Good-night!"

Mr. Myatt strode off into the dark night, and Hewitt, noiselessly lifting the board he had
himself placed in position, hastened back to the study.

He swung up the board, all sticky and shiny with Brunswick black, and laid it across a spread
newspaper, on the table. There on the top, in the midst of the black varnish, were the prints
of all five finger-tips of a hand, where Mr. Myatt had felt for the obstruction in the porch.

Hewitt opened the drawer he had shut a little while back, and took therefrom a sheet of writing-paper.
And when, with the lens from his pocket, he began to examine that paper in comparison with
the finger-marks on the board, Plummer and the rector could see that there were also two distinct
finger-marks on the paper and one faint one--all red. Plummer came to look.

"What's this?" he said. "Was this what you were going to tell us about?"

Hewitt did not reply for a few moments, but continued his examination. Then he rose and turned
to Plummer.

"You've still got that piece of paper in your pocket, I suppose," he said, "with the little
red smudges of colour put there by the police surgeon?"

"Yes--here it is," and the detective took it from his waistcoat pocket.

"Thanks," said Hewitt. "Now, see here. That is a little of the red stuff taken from the mark
on Denson's forehead a week ago, and found to consist of vermilion, oil and wax. You have seen
the second impression of that awful mark on the forehead of your poor friend Mason, Mr. Potswood,
to-night. This room has been searched for papers before we began, and papers have been burnt.
In the search this drawer was opened--containing, as you see, nothing but a supply of new headed
note-paper. The note-paper was hastily lifted to see if anything else lay beneath, and here,
on the bottom sheet, these finger-marks were left in that same adhesive, freely marking red--a
sort of stuff that sticks to and marks whatever it touches. The hand that lifted that paper
was the hand that impressed that ghastly mark; and the hand that left its print on this black
varnish was Mr. Everard Myatt's! Now compare the two!"

Plummer had snatched the lens, and was narrowly comparing the marks ere Hewitt had well finished
speaking.

"They are!" he cried, as the rector bent excitedly over him. "They are the same! See--forefinger
and middle finger--the same, every line!"

"I needn't tell you," pursued Hewitt, "certainly I needn't tell Plummer, that that is the most
certain and scientific method of identification known. The police know that--and use it. But
now there is some more. You saw me take that charred paper from the fire. Sometimes words may
be read on charred paper--it depends on the paper and the ink. Most of the cinders were too
much broken to yield any information, though we may try again by daylight. But one was suggestive.
See it!" Hewitt very carefully pulled out the flat drawer that held the cinders.

"You see," he went on, "that one--this--is different from the rest. It has retained its original
form better, and has been less broken, because of being of thicker paper. It is a crumpled
envelope. Look at the flap--it has never been closed down. Moreover, on that same flap you
may read in embossed letters, still visible, part of the name of this house. Plain inference--this
was an envelope intended for a letter never sent, and so crumpled up and dropped into the waste-paper
basket. But why should such an apparently unimportant thing as that be carefully brought from
the waste-paper basket and burnt? Somebody was anxious that the smallest scrap of paper evidencing
a certain correspondence should be destroyed. But look closely at the front of the envelope--the
ink shows a rather lighter grey than the paper. The address is incomplete--at any rate, no
more than some of the first line and a little of the second is at all visible now; but it is
plain that the first line begins with an E. The letters immediately following are not distinct,
but next there is a capital M beginning a name which is clearly Myatt or Myall. Now, that is
why, when Myatt came here, I took the first steps to hand to get an impression of his finger-tips,
in order to compare them with the marks on that paper."

"But why," asked the astonished rector, "why did he come back?"

"Nothing but a bold measure to see how things were going--he came as his own spy, that's all.
He's a keen and dangerous man. Don't you remember telling me how he called on you yesterday,
though you hardly knew him by sight, merely to ask you to persuade Mason to take a holiday?
It struck me as a little odd at the time. He was pumping you, Mr. Potswood--he wanted to find
what Mason had been saying! And he is not alone--plainly he is not alone, for poor Mason knew
they were watching everywhere. But come--this is no time for speculation. Plummer--you must
hold him safely--we'll pick up evidence enough when you've got him. I wouldn't leave it, Plummer--I'd
take him to-night!"

"You're right--right, as usual, Mr. Hewitt," Plummer agreed. "More especially as the rector
was--well, a little incautious in talking to him just now."

"I? What did I say?" Mr. Potswood asked, astonished. "I had no suspicions--how could I have----"

"No, Mr. Potswood," the detective replied, "you had no suspicions, and for that very reason,
in the excitement of the narrative, you called Mr. Martin Hewitt by his right name at least
twice! And after I had called him 'doctor,' too!" he added regretfully.

"Is that so?" asked Hewitt.

The poor rector was sadly abashed. "But I really wasn't aware of it, Mr. Hewitt!" he protested.
"I hardly think I could--but, there, perhaps I did! Of course, if Inspector Plummer remembers
it----"

"He'll be off!" exclaimed Hewitt. "With that hint, and finding the black stuff on his hands,
he'll smell a rat instantly! Come, Mr. Potswood--you can show us the nearest way to his house,
at any rate! Come--we may get him yet!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But the good rector's slip of the tongue was fatal, and Myatt was not yet to meet the fate
that fitted him. The house was not far--less than a mile away. It was a detached house, but
quite a small one--smaller than Mason's. Plummer blocked every exit with a man, but his caution
was wasted. Myatt was gone.

There was the house and the furniture and two servants, just as it might have been any day
in the year when Myatt was out for an hour. But now he was out for good. The police watched
and waited all night, and all the next day; they waited and watched for a week, and the house
was under observation after that, but Myatt never returned. He had made his plans, it was plain,
for just such a flight, whenever the necessity might arise; and when he was assured that danger
threatened, he simply vanished in the dark of a London night. Search brought no information--not
a scrap of telltale paper lay in Calton Lodge--not a letter, not a line. Though, indeed, the
police were to see more of Myatt's work yet--and so was Hewitt.

Dr. Lawson's detention did not last the night out. The unhappy Mason had indeed sent to him,
by a chance messenger, having grown desperate in long waiting for the return of Gipps from
the rectory. Mason was ready to call in any aid, to recall any of the friendships he had sacrificed
in the past. But Lawson was long in coming, having received the note after a long professional
round, and when at last he arrived, Mason was a little reassured by the promise of Hewitt's
visit. Therefore, he did not tell the doctor so much as he might have done. Nevertheless, he
talked wildly and vaguely, so that Dr. Lawson feared some disturbance of his reason. The doctor
quieted and soothed him, however, and when he left he promised to return after his consultation
hour at the surgery was over. He must have been watched away from the house, and then the blow
fell that sealed for ever the lips of Jacob Mason.

Poor Miss Creswick was taken from the old house in which she could no longer remain, and for
a few months she stayed at the rectory, tended lovingly by the rector's excellent wife--stayed
there, in fact, till her wedding-day, which took place early the next year; so that for her
and Dr. Lawson the tragedy ended in happiness, after all.

       *       *       *       *       *

"God forgive me," cried the rector in the grey of the morning, when it became clear that Myatt
had escaped--"God forgive me! Through my stupidity a horrible creature has been set loose in
the world to work his diabolical will afresh!"

"Never mind," said Hewitt. "It was not stupidity, Mr. Potswood--nothing but your openness of
character. You were not trained to the cunning that we must use in my profession. And there
will be more than Myatt to take--he was not alone! It is plain that Mason was found to be wavering
in whatever horrible allegiance he had bound himself, and he was watched. No, Myatt was not alone!"

"No, I fear not," replied the clergyman. "I fear not: there is horrible mystery still. The
watching and besetting that terrified him so much; the fact that he seems to have yielded up
his life without a struggle--and that with help so near; and the connection--what could it
have been?--between Mason and the other victim--Denson. That is a deep mystery indeed! And
that horrible sign! Mr. Hewitt, you have done much--but not all!"

"No," replied Martin Hewitt, "not nearly all. It is even doubtful whether or not it will be
my lot to come across the thing again; but it will be in the hands of the police. And, after
all, we have achieved something. For we know that if Myatt can be captured we shall be at the
heart of the mystery."

THE CASE OF THE LEVER KEY

I

In some of the cases which we now know to have been connected with the Red Triangle, there
was nothing, in the first place, to show any such association. In some of these cases the connection
has become apparent only since the final clearing up of the whole mystery, and with these cases
we have no present concern; but in others it revealed itself during the investigation of the
case. It was to this second category that the next case belonged--the next at all connectible,
that is, after that of the mysterious death of Mr. Jacob Mason and the flight of Everard Myatt. 

" You probably refer," I said," to the bill just introduced, to allow the leaders in this Rebellion
no more than twenty thousand dollars' worth of real estate, confiscating
the balance, to sell in parcels to the soldiers and poor people, black
or white, on liberal terms, to liquidate the war debt.

O the wrongs and outrages which the spirit of slavery inflicted not
only on the blacks, but also on Gloucester, and, on May 10th, went
to the office of Captain McConnell.

Here I visited the cave in which General Cornwallis was found. We acknowledge you have overpowered
us, but you we shall yet in some way secure our rights as Southerners, notwithstanding all your
Northern preaching.""

Will you see if that fellow has gone out? were examined, and a season of prayer followed. These dear sisters
urged me to spend a week with them; and General Armstrong kindly offered to send his conveyance for me
at the close of the week, or whenever I might fix the time. Her" splendid man," a" beautiful gentleman,"
was a coarse, burly headed"

Legree" in appearance." Good Lord do come and help me." Mrs." I resumed visiting and supplying the
wants of the destitute as the white people of the South! The next was queried. They had one hundred and eighty-
five scholars, and were doing a grand work among the white people in that community. At the close
he earnestly exhorted his hearers to purity of life in their new freedom. We borrowed a little
box, upon which a coffee sack of clothing was laid, and we thus made a comparatively comfortable
seat.

I addressed the school, and conversed with those young white men, who seemed in a very tender frame
of mind. Their prayers were marked for their originality and earnestness. Here were seventeen schools
under the charge of the American Missionary Association, which were
taught by eleven lady teachers and six gentlemen.

I went across the cabin to her relief the third time and inquired," What
is the trouble now?"

House- servants and body- servants were more intelligent than those
who lived only in the field. I looked up to see it, when he continued,"'
T ain' t but two miles ahead."

One woman in giving a sketch of slave life, said a young girl went to
a night meeting contrary to orders, and for so doing was stripped
naked and whipped in the presence of the other slaves, the master
himself plying the lash.

While calling on F. C. Beaman, member of Congress, and wife, I was urged to rest three or four
days, at least, before leaving for home. During the day' s ride we passed the place of a large
Sabbath school, which was first opened by a soldier, W. Badger, Jun.,
a faithful laborer in this work.

But I was left behind, with three young men who refused to desert me.( and kept plying the lash).
She sobbed and sighed with quite an effort in commanding her feelings
to speak." in Gloucester, in almost a nude condition."

Were you ever in Gloucester County?" He returned discouraged, as he was unwilling to send me in a
Virginia cart, the only government conveyance. There was as much complaint here as elsewhere
about their unwillingness to work; but the general said it was only
because they got no pay." O yes," he answered," the F. F. V.' s ride in that
way here.

We find there no lines of distinction because of color or condition. There were some old and crippled
people here in the same condition as those whom I had relieved in
other places in this part of the State.

I told him if I could accomplish any good by going, I was more than willing to take the cart- ride,
as I could make a seat with my bale of clothing, and thus I went.

I
attended a large meeting, and listened to a very interesting discourse
by a freedman.

General Howard said Northern humanitarians ought to have a share
in this Christian enterprise of furnishing work for the able- bodied
and assisting to care for these indigent children; and he urged me
to bring as many as practicable."

I am from the State of Michigan," I said," but more directly from Washington." Being somewhat acquainted,
with my work, he said he was ashamed of the vote of the board, in distrusting my ability to
select goods for the little children of the asylums, when I had been
at this work all weeping over their disappointment.""

After we gets the crop in my my life, and constantly during three years
past. Now you have a bill in Congress to rob us of our land, and of
course it will pass.

They entered no complaint at the office of the Freedmen' s Bureau, and
the colored man went about his business unmolested. Robert Bell, aged fifty,
who did not know his letters in March, could now read in the second
reader. You fired upon Sumter; you determined to sever the Union. The above
included seven counties: Norfolk, Princess Ann, Nansemond, Isle of
Wight, Southampton, Accomack, and Northampton, the last two on the
eastern shore of Chesapeake Bay.

It is well to note the income of these confiscated plantations, that
had, up to May 25, 1866, been returned to original owners.

You determined to make slavery the chief corner stone of the Republic, but another stone, Liberty, has ground
it to powder. All she knew was to be a consequential young lady of distinction, full of exalted
qualifying adjectives in the superlative degree. God never designed that we should make merchandise
of human beings. He took us to a large farm of eight hundred and six acres, rented by a Northern
man by the name of Jackson, who said he had worked it three years, and had taken it for two years longer.
But you look too much like my mother to see you go in that style. Twenty- six hundred of their children
were in schools; and thirteen 100 were half or entire orphans, that
drew rations.

With
flushed face and flashing eyes he said," Never, NEVER shall we give
up our rights. Some of them were pitiable cases of outrage, but we
can not report them While in this part of the State, I saw a white woman
who had been cruelly assaulted and beaten with a raw- hide by her
sister and niece for associating with the teachers of our freedmen'
s schools."

Don' t grieve over that," I said; here." If you carry out your position," I rejoined,"
you will unite with some foreign power to break up our government,
or to grind its republican form into powder and scatter it to the
four winds.""

Yes; I' ll stand here," I answered. It is just exactly what we shall do if we have the chance."
I' m so glad my brother ain' t here; I tell you there' d be trouble."

Ole Satan had me, sure, an' I cried,' Massar Jesus, save me from dat
horrible pit,' an' he fotch me out, an' put dese feet on Yes, I'
m your Jesus," retorted the inhuman persecutor, and he continued to
ply the lash until thirty strokes were well laid on.

We enjoyed a beautiful run on the Chesapeake. There were several very
old, crippled people de rock, and here I means to stan'."

We reached far as my means would allow. I could not bear to have your children in Michigan know
that I sent their mother out to ride thirty miles in that way;" and tears filled his eyes, as he
referred to his own mother in his far off Northern home. As usual, I took with me my Bible, for
these colored people had none, because they had never been permitted
to learn to read.

I was told by General Armstrong, commander of the post in Elizabeth City, that twenty- five thousand
inhabitants had been supplied with food, and that more whites than blacks had called for rations.
On May 13th, at four o' clock. M., I found myself back at Old Yorktown. He was engaged all the
morning in hearing complaints on the part of the freedmen and in adjusting
their wrongs. The old wood house in which the treaty was signed is
covered with thick moss."

Sir," he answered," you are slap- jam on to it; only a mile and a
half, sure."

               It was also the head- satisfied with robbing us
               of millions of dollars in slaves, that
               were just as much our property as your horses
               and cattle, but you stole our sheep and
               horses, or any thing else you could get
               hands on; and yet that was not enough. But I told him I was thankful to
get the five hundred dollars, and could waive their notions of woman'
s quarters of the Union generals after it fell into their hands.

We called on six families. The contention was not now with British red-
coats, as in the Revolution, but with our brethren in gray. As the train
halted a few minutes, I left for the bakery, but found that it had
been removed a block further.

The Taylor plantation was the next which we visited. His offense was refusing to work on Sunday afternoon.
Then we' ll go to work and mix up a little cake bake for our families,
and you' ll come and snatch even that away from us."

After taking leave of many dear friends at this place, through the kindness of sister Ailsgood,
the matron of the Teachers' Home, I was conveyed to the boat in
Lieutenant Massy' s carriage. The colonel commanding this post called
on her aunt previous to entering upon her new duties in teaching
a school.

They were attending the school, to which a number of white families
sent their children. But I don' t know how I' ll do. As usual we went
twice the distance; the captain said he always calculated a Virginia
mile to be double the length of ours."

Never mind; don' will t notice him."

EXPERIENCES AMONG FREEDMEN. A few minutes after I saw her weeping bitterly, as if her heart
was nearly broken. The two young men referred to had the ministry in view, and were very earnest
in their exhortations."

Do, Lord, come now; if you ha' n' t time send Jesus." The general
thought it was three miles, at least, before we reached the old colonial
church, built one hundred and twenty- five years ago, out of brick
brought from England."

Yes." I never combed my hair myself."

Do not let us take with us," he said," any habit of drinking-- not
even using tobacco.

They thought she had
disgraced the family; but she said she would not turn away from those
Christian ladies, however her own kindred might treat her."

But I never was so insulted. After a few minutes unpleasant talk of
this sort our soldier in front of the door for me.

Receiving a word of encouragement, she went on:" I reckon I' ll have to try." Won' t you stand
by me?"" Of course we should, and you can' t blame us for doing that. Consequently, a young man
was sent with me to see that wise selections were made for the little
homeless waifs for whom the relief was designed.

But a few moments later I saw her weeping as hard as ever.

There were many of these much more intelligent than I supposed I
should find them, and used as good language as the white people."

He winked at me again, and I never, never was so insulted.

Near of the place was the Zion Methodist Church, that had been used
occasionally for auction sales of slaves.

I stood by her this time till I saw her in the ladies' dressing-
room, by her request remaining between her and the object of her fears,
who was at least fifteen feet from us, sitting in the farthest end
of the cabin.

It contained seventeen thousand acres, seven hundred acres of which
were worked, and ready for renting to freedmen.

In Captain Flagg' s district there were three thousand four hundred
and eighty- six freed children attending day- school, and five hundred
and one scholars in the night- schools."

Well, he winked at me, and I was never so insulted in my life."

We visited Ex- Governor Henry A. Wise' s plantation of five hundred
acres, with fifty cabins in the negro quarters.

And do my eyes look as if I' d been crying?" James Wright did not know his letters at Christmas,
but could now read fluently." You look all right." There were eight difficulties settled within the few hours
that I remained in the office.

I inquired if she was alone. On the report that he had left she returned.
There were many of his former slaves here, aged and helpless, and
a successful school was taught in his dwelling- house.

I
reckon you' ve heard of my pa. Everybody knows him-- Mr. Hampton-- in
Gloucester County, one of the most splendid counties in the State.
I agreed go, and the colonel went to procure a buggy, as his own
was broken; but he failed to get one, though more than a double price
was offered, because he was a Yankee.

Here were kindred spirits, with whom we held sweet communion, and with our Heavenly Father, who
is ever near at hand."

Everybody thinks it' s the best county in the State of Virginia." I replied," Nature has done enough
to make it so."

These earnest Christian girls were emphatically teaching a school
of Christ on week- days as well as on the Sabbath."

Isn' t it the most beautiful county you ever saw?"

But my opinion widely differed from hers.

I have seen them have not, and never will, conquer us; leave wife
and gal can tend it, and I' ll get work by the day while its growin'."

Laura Hampton knew nothing of self- reliance. We had better accept
the situation as we find it, and not call each other thieves and
robbers because your chief corner- stone is no more. The commissioners
having charge of money sent here by all the Free States, for sanitary
purposes, proposed to place five hundred dollars in my hands for the
two orphan asylums in Michigan, out of the nine hundred dollars that
came from our State.

She was to be pitied for her unfortunate surroundings. But as my supplies were out, I wished to
hasten back to Washington. I found in these people a strong attachment
to their own color; hence the unwillingness for a few to go a great
distance without a prospect of others to follow.

Here, I met eighteen teachers, with whom I enjoyed a refreshing prayer-
meeting, led by S. J. Whiting, a missionary, who gave an interesting
sketch of his experience in the Meudi Mission in Africa."

That man will hardly get a meager subsistence from one- fourth of
that land.""

I was there last week," I answered." I wouldn' t look at him."

Now keep de pure stuff, don' t trade it off for de devil.' An' by de
help held o' de Lord, I don' t do any sich tradin'."

CHAPTER XV.

We' ve always had a lady preceptress at our house, besides the nurse,
to take care of us." Many of them gave thrilling sketches of their
experiences in slave- life.

There were six thousand freedmen in this district. Now let us drop slavery and hold it no longer as the bone of
contention, and live henceforward a united nation." They had had no civil court here since March
20th, and no me with a request to go to Gloucester Court- house, to look
after the condition of the freedmen there.

And he inquired of the man if he expected to get his living off the fourth of that lot. She was going
to visit justice was shown to freedmen.

I told him I had frequently seen the wealthiest ladies sitting on straw,
with no other seat in the cart.

A few plantations were rented here by Northerners; but they made no complaint for want of hands, and
had more applications for work than they could furnish. They were to
receive one- fourth of all they raised, and pay the remainder as
rent.

In the written Word we find that God made of one blood all the nations
of the earth." All these people want is fair and kind treatment"
he said," to make good and faithful hands the year around.

He had no difficulty in keeping good help. All of this was the avails of negro help on the government
farms, except the Wise and Taylor plantations, that were still occupied
for the benefit of the aged, sick, blind, and crippled men, women,
and orphans.

It seemed to me one of the darkest and most God- forsaken corners of the earth. Captain Flagg and wife invited
me to take another ride out in the country where colored people had rented land." Ah, I' s played
de fool," he said," in jist dat kind o' tradin'. Two young men were converted
through their instrumentality, and were exerting a powerful influence
over the white people." I never did do any thing of the kind," she
told me;" but pa says I must; now that we have lost all our servants
by this awful war.

It widely differs from all others I have visited In the South."

It was a grand county before the war," she said.

Placing my hand upon her shoulder I inquired if she had heard bad news
that was grieving her? Others Ricks being with them, I was easy as
to their condition. We visited a number of plantations with which
the general was unacquainted.

General O. O. Howard gave transportation for many car- loads to go to
the States of New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and other free States."
O, you' re smash up to it," he said.

They were very imaginative, and talked with God." No; do you see that man yonder with a light
hat on?" After meeting, minister and people gathered around me to shake my hands, until they were lame
a number of days.

General Armstrong secured a carriage, May 18th, to take his wife and myself to the Downey School,
a few miles distant, to see what a noble work the two Stewart sisters
were there doing.

Said the general, as we came opposite a ten- acre lot where a man, his
wife, and daughter were all hard at work grubbing. I gave an account
of the work accomplished through the blessing of God in the Mississippi
Valley, while I was accompanied by my dear sister Backus, and spoke
of trials I had recently passed through.

Among our passengers for Norfolk was a young lady who seemed bright and gay, but had nearly spoiled
herself with affectation." I reckon so," was the answer. But the influence of slavery had its deleterious effects
upon whites as well as blacks. Sunday, May 20th, was a pleasant Sabbath. I crossed York River at Gloucester
Point, and stepped into a store to wait for our soldier driver. I' s an ole backslider. He wanted
to see all filthy habits left behind with bondage.

And she burst again into tears. Let us search ourselves, and see if we are worshiping God
with clean hearts and mouths."

We passed through, a forest of young pines that had been rented three
years to colored people in five and ten acre lots.

Said one," Da' s took de bridle off our heads, an' let us loose to serve God." I know s such a beautiful
gentleman; he was pa' s overseer a good many years; pa thought he couldn' t carry on our plantation without
him; when if my brother was here he' d shoot him, for he' d never stand this." There were thirty
acres here, purchased by colored people, laid out in two- acre lots.
Transportation was secured for fifty- five adults and fifteen orphans.

This was confiscated. A number of them read for me very intelligibly." Not to be noticed," I said. He
was sixty years of age. This debt would never have been contracted,
had not the South brought on the war.

Near this place was the school conducted by the two sisters, Emily
and Jennie Stewart, of South Hill, Steuben County, New York. On our
way we met five carts laden with F. F. V.' s. The captain inquired
of one man how far it was to Providence Church.

A two-
story brick building was Washington' s head- quarters after he took
possession of Yorktown.

Do you think I can teach a small school?" This church had been built one hundred years before
with brick brought from England. Here was the stamping- ground of
two great armies.

Said one woman," I tried hard to serve God forty years ago, but mighty
idle; Massa' s lash so sharp,' peared like we poor creturs never rest
till we drop in our graves."

Our nurse did that always, until six months ago our last servant left us, I
don' t know if it looks well anyhow, for I don' t know how to dress it.
In the evening I visited a school of twenty- five adults, who could
not attend during the day."

O, no, not entirely; pa put me under the care of a splendid man; I reckon he' s on deck; O, he'
I see him I' ll be all right. Said one woman," Oh Lord, do please hitch up your cheer a little
nearer your winder-- draw aside your curtain, an' look down' pon
us poor creturs, an' gib your table- cloth a good shake, dat we may
pick up a few crumbs."

H. C. Perry was the superintendent of schools in Norfolk District. The
colored man told them whipping days were past, and he came out of
the affray with but few scratches.

After she had washed and combed her hair she asked," How does my hair look? One hundred and ninety-
two of these were over sixteen years of age. It was a bargain of your own making. There had been paid
over by Captain Flagg to government toward liquidating the war debt, thirteen thousand dollars.
I can not employ all who come for work. I returned to Washington,
where I found a request that I should take fifteen colored orphans
to our Home in Michigan.

But she was not so much to blame as her parents for her simpering and
tossing the head with overstocked affectation.

This was to be equally divided between Detroit Orphan Asylum and the one in Raisin
Institute, known at that time as Haviland Home. He assented to all the selections
I made, and I arranged to return home with the fifteen orphans and
forty laborers, who wished to go to Cleveland, Ohio, where their friends
had gone for work and reported to them favorably.

And she soon became calm, when I thought it safe to leave." You
Northern people can not be inability very comfortably. A majority of
the commissioners objected to its being placed in the hands of a
woman, to select goods to be purchased at auction rates.

I arrived at Norfolk at four o' clock P. M., and found a pleasant home at the Tyler House. It was a heavy
pressure of persecution that could drive them from their old Southern
homes to Washington for protection, and the heavy pressure of want
staring them in the face that could induce them to leave for Northern
States to find work.

If they had families he said he would help them in building houses
on his own land, and if both were suited he would eventually sell
lots to them.

Hundreds could not get work at ten cents a day, besides rations. He hailed a
passer- by to inquire the distance to the Old Brick Church.

But the freedmen could not be persuaded to go into the former slave States, after having left
them. Here a Southern brigadier- general addressed me in the following
style:" I reckon you are from the North, madam."

Mrs. Ricks knew of fifteen who wished to follow their friends that
had gone to Ohio, and said she would assist me in going through to
Adrian, where Joseph McKenzie had spoken to me for eight or ten strong
men for his brickyard.

Fifteen thousand were then huddled in and about Washington. While
she cried for mercy her master replied," I' ll give you mercy." But
I told them I must hasten home to rest.

Most of them had built little cabins, but others were working out by
the day to earn means to pay for their lots before they built.

Before we reached Altoona I found rations had not been provided for adults, and that we must purchase
at least seventy- five loaves of bread at that town.

Richard Lee, an ex- slave- holder, undertook to whip a colored man with the help of his overseer,
after the old style, but in the struggle he found himself cut in two
or three places, and the blood was flowing pretty freely from the
overseer.

We went on a run, and secured the bread; and I sent the men running with it, so as to reach the
cars before they should start." Yes, I' ll help you" The very men with the bread reached the
cars just as they were beginning to move.

It had flourished ever since. I found I had better keep as quiet as possible, as I was threatened with
an attack of dysentery

.


"No--he doesn't know of the discovery. He went out just before I made it, and I don't expect
him in again to-day." But as Mr. Bell spoke there grew plain in his face the pallor of a new fear.

Martin Hewitt observed it, but kept his thoughts to himself. "Well," he said, "you didn't tell
your partner. Nor the police?"

"No, Mr. Hewitt. You see, of course, the first thing the police attempt is to catch and punish
the thief, and they make the recovery of the property a subsidiary object. But for me, Mr.
Hewitt, the recovery of the property, as I have explained, is the one great consideration.
Punish the thief by all means, but first save me from ruin, Mr. Hewitt! That is why I sent
for you; for that, and because I thought it might be advisable to keep the matter quiet, till
you had taken some steps."

"There is something in that consideration, certainly. So you have told nobody of the loss,
except me?"

"Nobody but Foster, my head clerk--an old and faithful servant. It was he, in fact, who suggested
sending for you. As he put it very forcibly, you can act for me and my interests, while the
police act for themselves, and--very properly, of course, as police--in the interest of the
community."

"Very well. I see you have several clerks in the outer office. Do they ever come into this room?"

"Never, unless they are sent for."

"If you and your partner were out, and one of the clerks came in without being sent for, the
rest would know it, of course?"

"Certainly."

"I observe three private rooms opening out of this. What are they?"

"This is a sort of extra inner room where I have private interviews with clients--I was in
there with a client for half an hour this morning before I discovered the loss. The next is
a mere little box of a room where the correspondence clerk sits and works. The other is a larger
place--it is shared between my partner, Mr. Clarence Dalton, and the head clerk, Mr. Foster."

"Now let me have your broken padlock--and the key. I see you have forced up the front plate
with a screw-driver. I will borrow that screw-driver, if you please, and force it off completely."

Hewitt's client produced a screw-driver from a drawer, and in a very few moments the interior
of the little padlock lay uncovered. Hewitt examined the lock attentively for some few minutes,
trying the key several times against the levers. Then he stood up and said--

"Mr. Bell, you have made a mistake. This is not your lock at all!"

"Not my lock!" exclaimed the broker. "What do you mean? I tell you it is the lock of that box,
and I broke it open myself!"

"Yes," answered Hewitt calmly, "it was on that box, and you broke it open yourself; but all
the same it is not your lock. Let me explain. These are very good little padlocks, with an
excellent lever action, 'dogged against detent,' as the technical phrase goes; so that only
the key properly made for each lock will open it. They are so good, indeed, as locks, that
it would be a waste of time to try picking them, when, because of their small size, it is so
very easy to break them apart, just as you have done yourself, and just as I could probably
have done in half the time, having had rather more experience. Now that is what has been done
with your lock by the person who has your bonds. But of course a broken lock has one disadvantage
as compared with a skilfully picked lock--it shows at the first glance what has happened. In
this case, Mr. Bell, your lock has been broken and taken away, and the thief, having first
provided himself with another padlock of precisely the same make and size, has substituted
that, locked it with its proper key and so left it!"

"What! Then that was why----"

"That, of course, was why you supposed it to be out of order when you attempted to open it
with your key. As a matter of fact, it is even now in perfectly good order, except for the
damage we have jointly committed with the screw-driver. And now, observe! That lock was shut
by another key; if the man that did that is as sharp as I suppose he is, he will have got rid
of that key at once. But perhaps he hasn't; and if not, then the man who has that key is the
thief. At any rate, the key is the clue we must hunt for. Let us have your clerks in one by
one, and look at their keys. Some are out at lunch by this time, probably?"

"No--I said they might be wanted, so kept them. I thought you might prefer to see them before
they went out."

"Very well thought of, but perhaps scarcely judicious, on the whole. Because if there is a
guilty person among them it may give him a hint; and the odds are rather against its being
very useful, considering the possibility--even probability--that the bonds and the collateral
evidence left here days ago. But we'll look at their keys, by all means, and then they may
go to lunch as soon as you please. Let me do the talking, or perhaps you'll start a scare.
Send for the nearest clerks first, then the others. As each comes in, mention his name, so
that I can hear it. Say, 'Oh, Mr. Brown'--or Jones, or what not--'have you some keys about
you?' Don't mention my name, and I will do the rest. Push to the door of the safe, and lock
this drawer in the table."

Mr. Bell did as Hewitt directed, and then called the head clerk, Mr. Foster, from his room,
with the prescribed inquiry about keys.

"Yes, Mr. Foster," Hewitt added pleasantly, "I'm not sure that the lock is quite in order,
but I promised to open it for Mr. Bell, so we'll try."

Mr. Foster, a slim, active old gentleman, grown grey in the firm's service, pulled a bunch
of keys from his pocket, and Hewitt scrutinised each narrowly. "No," he said, "I'm afraid none
of these will do. Stay," he added suddenly, and turning his back, carried the bunch to the
window. "No," he concluded, as he came back to the table and tried one of the keys fruitlessly.
"No, I'm afraid none of those will do. Thank you, Mr. Foster. You don't happen to have any
more, do you?"

No, Mr. Foster hadn't any more, and he retired to his room. Then Mr. Bell called the correspondence
clerk, Mr. Henning. Mr. Henning was a much younger man than the head clerk--twenty-six or so--pale
and blue-eyed, with weak whiskers and a straggling moustache. His keys were just as readily
produced as Mr. Foster's, but again Hewitt's examination was unsuccessful. The only other key
he had belonged to the typewriter, and that did not fit.

Then came Mr. Potter, the book-keeper, round, and tubby, and puffy, and his keys went under
inspection in the same way, taking a little longer this time, with two separate dashes to the
light of the window. Then there was Mr. Robson, young and spruce, Mr. Clancy, older and less
tidy, and four or five more. All the keys were examined, all with the same lack of success,
and all the clerks were sent away to take their turns at lunch.

"No," Hewitt reported, as soon as he and Mr. Bell were alone again, "it was certainly none
of those keys. Though indeed, my little attempt was desperate at best. A man would be a fool
to keep that key longer than he needed it, and especially to string it with his others. Still,
of course, it is by just such blunders as that that nine criminals out of ten are discovered.
And now let me take a good look at that box and its contents."

He lifted the box from the safe to the table, and narrowly scrutinised its exterior, especially
about the hasp, where the padlock had been. "Either the thief was an experienced hand," he
said, "or he took some steady practice with a few such padlocks as this before setting to work.
There are no signs of banging about or slipping of tools anywhere."

"But, of course, banging or anything violent would have been noticed in a place like this,"
Mr. Bell remarked.

"In office hours, yes," responded Hewitt. "But we mustn't forget that office hours are only
seven or eight out of the twenty-four."

"But you don't suspect burglary, do you?"

"I'm afraid, as yet, I've precious little ground for suspecting anything definite," Hewitt
answered; "but we must keep awake to every possibility. Now let us see the dummies." He turned
them over, and loosened them wherever they were tied. "Yes," he remarked, "quite neatly done.
Filled in with ordinary blank foolscap, such as, no doubt, you have in your office--but, then,
it is in every other office, too; every stationer has it by the ream. No marks anywhere--no
old newspapers, nothing that could give the shadow of a clue." He dropped the last of the papers,
and turned to his client. "Mr. Bell," he said, "this thing has been thought out to the last
inch. There is something like genius in this robbery--if genius is the capacity for taking
pains. My advice to you is to call in the Scotland Yard people at once."

"Do you mean you can do nothing?" asked Mr. Bell despairingly. "Don't tell me that, Mr. Hewitt!"

"No, I don't mean that," Hewitt answered. "I mean that until I have had time to think the thing
over very thoroughly I can't tell what I can or ought to do. Meantime, I think the police should
know; not because I think they can see farther into the thing than I can--for, indeed, I don't
think they can; but simply because the thief is getting a longer start every moment, and the
police are armed with powers that are not at my disposal. They can get search warrants, stop
people at ports and railway stations, arrest suspects--do a score of things that will be necessary.
Send to Scotland Yard and get Detective Inspector Plummer, if he's available--he's as good
a man as they have. Tell him that you've engaged me, or, better still, write a note to the
Scotland Yard authorities, and let me have it, to send or not as I think best, after I have
turned the thing over in my mind. I shall take one good look round this office, and then run
back to my rooms for an hour or two's hard consideration of whatever I may see. One or two
small things I have seen already--though I'd rather not mention them till I've made up my mind
how they bear. Matters seem likely to have gone so far that perhaps the regular police course
of catching the thief first will be the best plan, if it can be done. Meantime, it will be
my business to keep my eye first on the recovery of the bonds. But I think we must have the
police, Mr. Bell. Now, I'll take my general look round."

III

After Martin Hewitt had rushed off to St. Augustine's Hospital with the key, the envelope,
and the cypher I had brought him, I heard nothing of him till dusk fell--about six. Then I
received this telegram:--

/#
     "Cypher read. Most interesting case. If you can spare an hour be
     outside 120 Broad Street at six thirty.--<sc>Hewitt</sc>."
#/

I had to be at my office between eight and nine, and to keep Hewitt's appointment I should
probably have to sacrifice my dinner. But I was particularly curious to know the meaning of
that cypher, and just as curious to know how it could be read; and, moreover, I knew that any
case that Hewitt called interesting would probably be interesting above the common. So I took
my hat and sought a cab.

I was first at the meeting-place--indeed, a little before my time. No. 120 Broad Street was
a great new building of offices, most, if not all, closed at this time--a fact indicated by
the shutting of one of the halves of the big front door, where a char-woman was sweeping the
steps under the board which announced that offices were to be let. I waited nearly a quarter
of an hour, and then at last a hansom stopped and deposited Hewitt and another older gentleman
before me.

"Hope we haven't kept you waiting, Brett," Hewitt said. "This is Mr. Bell, of Kingsley, Bell
and Dalton; it took me a little longer than I expected to reach him. His offices are shut,
and the clerks all gone, but we are going to turn up the lights for a bit. The lift man is
gone too, I expect, so we shall have a good long stair-climb."

As to the lift man Hewitt was right, and during our long climb I received, briefly, an account
of the loss Mr. Bell's firm had suffered. "I have told Mr. Bell," Hewitt said, "that it was
you who happened across the key in such an odd fashion, and when I wired I was sure he would
be glad to let you see the upshot of your strange bit of luck. I was also pretty sure that
you would like to see it, too. For I really believe that this case--which I confess seemed
pretty near hopeless a few hours ago--is coming to an issue now, and here."

"Did you get any information out of the man in the hospital?" I asked.

"Not a scrap," Hewitt replied. "He was still insensible, and though I saw his clothes, and
they told me a good deal about the gentleman's personal habits--which are not dazzlingly noble,
to put it mildly--they told me nothing else whatever, except that he had recently been knocked
down in the mud, which I knew already. But the cypher has told me something, as I will explain
presently."

By this time we had reached the high floor in which the offices stood, and Mr. Bell, all wonder
and pale agitation, unlocked the outer door, and turned on the electric light.

"Now," cried Hewitt, "show me your ventilators!"

There were some, it seemed, in the top panes of the windows, but these were not what Hewitt
wanted. There were others in the form of upright chambers or flues, made of metal, and painted
the same colour as the walls about them. They rose from the floor in corners and wall angles,
and could be shut or opened by means of lids over their upper ends. These were more to Hewitt's
mind, and he went about from one to another, groping under the lids, and poking down into the
flues with a walking-stick. There was a wire-grating, or diaphragm, it seemed, in each of them,
two or three feet down, and we could hear the end of the stick raking on this at each investigation.
One after another of these ventilators Hewitt examined, till he had examined them all, in outer
and inner rooms, without result; and I could see that he was disappointed.

"There must be another somewhere," he said, and hunted afresh.

But plainly he had tried them all, and now he could do no more than try them all again, with
as little result.

"It is a ventilator," he said, positively. "Unless----" he broke off thoughtfully and stood
silent for a few moments. "Ah! of course!" he resumed presently. "We'll send for the housekeeper
and a candle. Which is the nearest empty office--the nearest office to let? Is there one on
this floor?"

"I think not," Mr. Bell answered. "But there's one on the floor below, just opposite the lift--I
see the bill on the door every day as I come up."

"We'll try that, then. I'll rake out every ventilator in this palatial edifice before I'll
call myself beaten. Come, call the housekeeper. Is there a speaking tube? Tell him to bring
a light."

The housekeeper came, wonderingly, with a watch-man's oil-lantern, and we all went to the floor
below. Opposite the lift was a glass door from which a bill had recently been torn.

"Why, it's let!" said Mr. Bell.

"Yes, sir," assented the housekeeper. "Let a day or two ago to a Mr. Catherton Hunt. Or, at
least, a deposit was paid."

"But see--the door's not locked," Hewitt observed, pushing it open. "I think we'll trespass
on Mr. Catherton Hunt's new offices, since they seem quite empty, and he hasn't taken possession.
Come--ventilators!"

It was a small office--an outer room of moderate size, and one smaller inner room. Hewitt at
once attacked the ventilators in the larger apartment--there were two of them--but retired
disappointed from each. There was one ventilator only in the small room. Hewitt tilted the
lid, which was at about the level of his eyes, thrust in his hand, and drew forth a bundle
of folded papers; thrust in his hand again and drew forth another bundle; did it again, and
drew forth more!

Mr. Bell fell upon the first bundle almost as a dog falls upon a bone; and now he snatched
eagerly at each successive paper or bundle, till Hewitt raked the grating with his stick, and
declared that there were no more. "Is that all?" he asked.

Mr. Bell went tremblingly from paper to paper, and, at last, said that he believed it really
was. "I can verify it by the list upstairs," he added, "if you are sure there are no more."

"No more," repeated Hewitt, rattling his stick in the ventilator again. "Let us go and verify,
by all means."

We sent the puzzled housekeeper away, and returned to the office above, and presently Mr. Bell,
now beginning so far to recover from his amazement as to express incoherent gratitude, reported
that the bonds were correct and complete to the last and least.

"Very well," said Hewitt, "then my part of the business is done, though I must say I've had
luck, or rather, Brett has had it for me. But the police must come on now. I think, Mr. Bell,
we'll go along to Scotland Yard when we leave here. They'll be wanting to see Mr. Catherton
Hunt, I expect, whoever he is--and somebody in your office, too, if I'm not sadly mistaken."

"Who?" gasped Mr. Bell.

"That, perhaps, you can help to point out. See here--do you know whose figures they are?" and
Hewitt produced the small slip of paper containing the cypher.

"They're very small," remarked Mr. Bell, putting on his glasses; "very small indeed; but I
think--why they're Henning's, I do believe!"

"Ah! one or two other little things seemed to point that way. Henning is your correspondence
clerk, I believe, and I expect this thin little slip is a specimen of your typewriter paper.
Have you any of his written figures for comparison?"

"Well no--I hardly think--you see he typewrites his letters, and although I know his writing
very well I can't at the moment put my hand on any figures of his."

"Never mind--it's mere matter of curiosity; the police will ask him questions in the morning.
What I believe has happened is this. Our friend Henning--if he's the man--has a friend outside
a great deal cleverer than himself--though he would seem to have his share of cunning, too.
Between them they resolved to rob you in the way they have done--temporarily. Henning was to
take advantage of his position in that little inner room to get at the safe some day when it
was open and when you were engaged in your own private inner room with a client, so leaving
the safe unwatched. He was provided with a spare patent padlock and key, of the sort you used
on that black box, and his confederate had drilled him in the trick of breaking that particular
sort of padlock open, with other spare specimens. He got his opportunity this morning."

"Only this morning?"

"This morning, I think, else we should never have got these bonds back, nor even have heard
of them again. I think you said you were engaged with a client for half an hour?"

"Yes, from about half-past ten to eleven."

"That was his chance, and he took it. He broke the padlock, took out the bonds, substituted
the dummies he had already prepared in his own desk, and locked the box again with the new
padlock. Meantime Hunt had paid a deposit, pending references, on the office below--the nearest
empty room. Of course, he wouldn't get the key until the tenancy was finally accepted--which
he never intended it should be. But he easily arranged to have the door left unlocked for a
day or two, on some convenient excuse--arranging decorations, or what not. And the bill was
taken down, so that prospective and prospecting tenants were kept away. The bonds being stolen,
Henning took the first opportunity of carrying them to the empty office--probably piecemeal--a
thing he could easily manage almost under your nose, before you were aware of your loss. There
he was to conceal them, either in the chimney, under the boards, or in the ventilator, as he
might find convenient--and he found the ventilator most convenient. Then he was to apprise
his confederate of the fact that the robbery had been effected in order that Hunt might come
and quietly fetch the plunder away. The message was to take an ingenious form. Hunt was to
have a fellow waiting about in the street, and as soon as Henning could get out--say to lunch--he
was just to send the key by this messenger--the key with which he had locked the new padlock
on the black box. You see the advantages of that simple arrangement. First, the key, which
is evidence, is got rid of in a safe and effectual way--a thing that couldn't be done as well
by merely flinging it away on or near the premises, where it might be found. Next, the message
is perfectly secret--the messenger could never guess what the key meant, nor could any other
person not in the confederate's confidence. And, at the same time, the key tells all that is
necessary; the robbery has been effected--come and remove the plunder.

"But something unforeseen happens. No sooner are the bonds stolen and safely hidden than you
go to the box, find something wrong with the lock, break it open and discover the loss. This
was a thing that they trusted would not happen till after the bonds were safely got away. More,
I am sent for, the clerks are kept in from lunch, and so on. Henning gets into a funk, and
resolves to send a message of special urgency to his confederate. For that purpose he uses
a cypher which the two have agreed upon--the most ingenious cypher I have ever seen used for
the purpose. He doesn't wish to make his message any more conspicuous than he need, so he writes
his cypher on this scrap of paper and rolls it inside the key--probably another expedient agreed
upon in case of necessity. Then the key goes into an envelope, for greater security of the
cypher message, and the messenger gets it when Henning is at last released for lunch. What
happened to the message we know; and here it is.

"Now I will not weary you with a detailed account of the different ways in which I attacked
this cypher, but I will take the shortest possible cut to the true interpretation. A very short
examination of the cryptogram shows that while no number is included above 23, the numbers,
in their relative frequency, roughly agree with the relative frequency of the corresponding
letters of the alphabet, a for 1, b for 2, and so on." "If that were all the thing would be
childishly simple. But you will see that we seem as far from the solution as ever; for the
letters as they stand mean nothing, though in fact they are in normal relative frequency; so
that if they mean other letters, all the rules are upset, and we are at a standstill. I admit
that for a long time the thing bothered me. But a peculiarity struck me. Not only were the
figures, or letters, disposed in groups of eight, but there were also eight such groups--sixty-four
altogether. What did that suggest? What but a chessboard?"

"A chessboard?" I queried.

"Just so--a chessboard. Eight squares each way--sixty-four altogether. So I drew a rough representation
of a chessboard, and set out the letters on it, in their order, like this:--

               i h n d t r e i
               o s t o c i h e
               c w o o e m n s
               s t o o o o f a
               e t o o o o c v
               a o o o o o r e
               a h t k r i e t
               l e w n n a a t

"Now, there was my chessboard with my letters on it. I tried reading them downward, across,
upward and diagonally, in the direction of the moves of different chess pieces--king, queen,
rook and bishop. Nothing came of that, whatever I did; the thing was as unreadable as ever.
But there remained one chess-move to try--the eccentric move of the knight; the move of one
square forward, backward or sideways, and then one square diagonally, or, as it has sometimes
been more concisely expressed, the move to the next square but one of a different colour from
that on which it rests. I tried the knight's move, and I read the cypher.

"I began at the top left-hand corner, just as one does in reading a book. I read the moves
downward--i to w, e and h, and found that led to nothing. So I took the one alternative move,
and, with a little consideration, skipped along from i to t in the second line of squares,
t in the top line, h in the second line, e in the third, r in the top and e in the second.
That gave me an idea. There were the letters i, t, t, followed by the word here. I tried back
from the i again, and taking in the reverse order the w, e and h which I had first given up,
I read my own name, as you can see it, from the h on the bottom line but one, moving upward.
So I had the words Hewitt here. I need not carry you through all the steps, which will now
be plain enough to you. But I found that the message actually began in the right-hand corner,
and read thus, the noughts counting for nothing--

"'Invent loss disc take at once Martin Hewitt here fear watch.'

"The noughts were plainly merely inserted to fill in unneeded squares, and keep the rest of
the figures in their proper relative places when the cypher was written in line. At first I
was a little puzzled to understand what seemed to be the first word invent. But it was quite
clear that loss disc meant 'loss discovered,' so I concluded that here in the beginning was
a contraction also, and that in was a separate word. In that case vent could be a contraction
for no other word but 'ventilator,' in accordance with the sense of the words. So I concluded
that the meaning of the whole sentence was simply this: 'The plunder is in the ventilator,
the loss is discovered, take away the booty at once; Martin Hewitt is here, and I fear I may
be watched.' There is the reading, and our little adventure this evening is what it has led to.

"Of course, the confederate wouldn't go groping about the squares so painfully as I have had
to do. To him the reading would be simple enough, for the order of the moves would be preconcerted.
Each of the conspirators would have, as a guide, both to reading and writing the cypher, a
drawn set of squares, numbered in the order of the moves--1 where we have the i, 2 where we
have the n, 3 where we have the v, and so on. With that before him, either reading or writing
in this extraordinary cryptogram would be easy and quick enough. And now for Scotland Yard!"

IV

We learned late on the following day that Henning had not appeared at the office. From that
we assumed that he must have met his confederate in the evening, and, finding that he had not
received the message sent, conceived that something was wrong, and made himself safe. The confederate,
Hunt, however, made his appearance early next morning, but escaped.

What happened is best told in Plummer's words when he called on Hewitt in the afternoon.

"I went round this morning," he said, "as I said I would last night. I took a good man with
me, and we got the dummy bonds that had been put in Bell's box and popped 'em in the ventilator,
where the real ones had been hidden. You see, we'd got nothing legal against Catherton Hunt
as yet, but if we could only grab him with those dummy bonds on him it might help, with the
other evidence we could scrape up (and especially if we could take Henning), to sustain a charge
of conspiracy to steal. Well, he came so quick he was on us before we were quite ready. We'd
got the dummies in their place, and I was in front of the door telling my man the likeliest
corner to wait in, when suddenly up pops the lift right in front of me, with a gentleman in
it--clean-shaven. I looked at him and he looked at me. I had a sort of distant notion that
I might have seen him before, and it's pretty certain he had something more than a distant
notion about me. 'Down again,' he says to the lift man, before the gate was swung, 'I've forgotten
something!' And down the lift went. You'll understand I had no idea he was the man we wanted;
but as the lift went down and my eyes were on the man's face, I saw who he was! When he stood
straight before me I had no more than a vague notion that I'd seen him somewhere before. But
down the lift went, and in the flash of time when he'd nearly disappeared, and the bottom part
of his face was hidden by the sill of the lift opening--the part of his face where his beard
had been when we met him last--I saw it was Myatt!"

"Myatt? Good heavens!"

"Everard Myatt, Mr. Hewitt, the man that murdered Mr. Jacob Mason! Everard Myatt, for a thousand,
with his beard shaved! And we've lost him again! What could we do? We shouted and ran downstairs,
and that was all. He'd gone, of course. And when we asked the hall porter he told us that Mr.
Catherton Hunt had just come down the lift and hurried out!"

THE CASE OF THE BURNT BARN

I

Everard Myatt--or Catherton Hunt--was lost again. Martin Hewitt had been wholly successful,
for he had recovered Mr. Bell's missing bonds; but the police caught neither of the conspirators.
Investigation at Henning's lodgings showed that careful preparations must have been made for
an immediate flight if it should become necessary, and the flight had taken place. The man
in the hospital, who had been knocked down in carrying from one to the other the extraordinary
message that Hewitt deciphered, remained insensible for a few days, and could not be questioned
till some time later still. Then he professed to have forgotten all about the message on which
he was going when he met his accident, and the medical men in attendance informed the police
that it was quite possible that the fellow's statement was true. He said that he did carry
messages sometimes, when he could get a job, but he could remember nothing of the message of
the key, nor of who had sent him, nor where he was to go. Nevertheless, the police, although
they professed to accept his statement, kept a wary eye on him after his discharge from the
hospital, for they had a very great suspicion that he knew more than he chose to tell. But
nothing more was heard of the accomplices till another case of Martin Hewitt's brought the
news, and that in a manner strange enough.

The matter began, as so many matters of Hewitt's did, with the receipt of a telegram, followed
immediately by another. For the first having been handed in at a country office not very long
before eight the previous evening, it was not delivered at Hewitt's office till the morning,
in accordance with the ancient manners and customs observed in the telegraphic system of this
country. It had been despatched from Throckham, in Middlesex, and it was simply a very urgently
worded request to Hewitt to come at once, signed "Claire Peytral." The second telegram, which
came even as Hewitt was reading the first, on his arrival at his office, ran thus:--

/#
     "Did you receive telegram? See newspapers. Matter life or death.
     Would come personally but cannot leave mother. Pray
     answer.--<sc>Peytral</sc>."
#/

The answer went instantly that Hewitt would come by the next train, for he had seen the morning
paper and from that knew the urgency of the case. But a consultation of the railway guide showed
that trains to Throckham were fewer than one might suppose, considering the proximity of the
village to London, and that the next would leave in about an hour and a quarter; so that I
saw Hewitt before he started. He came up to my rooms, in fact, as I was beginning to breakfast.

"See here," he said, "I am sent for in the Throckham case. Have you seen the report?"

As a leader writer, I had little business with the news side of my paper, and indeed I had
no more than a vague recollection of some such heading as: "Tragedy in a barn," in one evening
paper of the day before, and "Murder at Throckham" in another. So I could claim no very exact
knowledge of the affair.

"Here you have a paper, I see," Hewitt said, reaching for it. "Perhaps their report is fuller
than that in mine." He gave me his own newspaper and began searching in the other. "No," he
said presently, "much the same. News agency report to both papers, no doubt."

The report which I read ran as follows:--

/#
     "<sc>Singular Tragedy</sc>.--An extraordinary occurrence is reported from
     Throckham, a small village within fifteen miles of London,
     involving a tragic fatality that has led to a charge of murder. On
     Thursday evening an old barn, for some time disused, was discovered
     to be on fire, and it was only by extraordinary exertions on the
     part of the villagers that the fire was extinguished. Upon an
     examination of the place yesterday morning the body of Mr. Victor
     Peytral, a gentleman who had lived in the neighbourhood for some
     time, and who had been missing since shortly before the discovery
     of the fire, was found in the ruins. The body was burnt almost
     beyond recognition, but not so much as to conceal the fact that the
     unfortunate gentleman had not perished in the fire, but had been
     the victim of foul play. The throat was very deeply cut, and there
     can be no doubt that the murderer must have fired the barn with the
     object of destroying all traces of the crime. The police have
     arrested Mr. Percy Bowmore, a frequent visitor at the house of the
     deceased."
#/

"My telegram," said Hewitt, "is plainly from a relative of this Mr. Peytral who is dead--perhaps
a daughter, since she speaks of being unable to leave her mother. In that case, probably an
only child, since there is no other to leave."

"Unless the others are too young," I suggested.

"Just so," Hewitt replied. "Well, Brett," he added, "to-day is Saturday."

Saturday was, of course, my "off" day, and I understood Hewitt to hint that if I pleased I
might accompany him to Throckham. "Saturday it is," I said, "and I have no engagements. Would
you care for me to come?"

"As you please, of course. I can guess very little of the case as yet, naturally, beyond what
I have read in the paper; but the subtle sense of my experience tells me that there is all
the chance of an interesting case in this. That's your temptation. As for myself, I don't mind
admitting that--especially in these country cases, where the resources of civilisation are
not always close at hand--I'm never loth to have a friend with me who isn't too proud to be
made use of. That's my temptation!"

No persuasion was needed, and in due time we set out together.

II

It is my experience that places are to be found within twenty miles of London far more rural,
far sleepier, far less influenced by the great city that lies so near, than places thrice and
four times as far away. They are just too far out to be disturbed by suburban traffic, and
too near to feel the influence of the great railway lines. These main lines go by, carrying
their goods and their passengers to places far beyond, and it is only by awkward little branch
lines, with slow and rare trains, that any part of this mid-lying belt is reached, and even
then it is odds but that one must drive a good way to his destination.

Throckham was just such a place as I speak of, and that was the reason why we had such ample
time to catch the first of the half-dozen leisurely trains by which one might reach the neighbourhood
during the day. The station was Redfield, and Throckham was three miles beyond it.

At Redfield a coachman with a dogcart awaited Hewitt--only one gentleman having been expected,
as the man explained, in offering to give either of us the reins. But Hewitt wished to talk
to the coachman, and I willingly took the back seat, understanding very well that my friend
would get better to work if he first had as many of the facts as possible from a calm informant
before discussing them with the dead man's relations, probably confused and distracted with
their natural emotions.

The coachman was a civil and intelligent fellow, and he gave Hewitt all he knew of the case
with perfect clearness, as I could very well hear.

"It isn't much I can tell you, sir," he said, "beyond what I expect you know. I suppose you
didn't know Mr. Peytral, my master, that's dead?"

"No. But he was a foreigner, I suppose--French, from the name."

"Well, no, sir," the coachman replied, thoughtfully; "not French exactly, I think, though sometimes
he talked French to the mistress. They came from somewhere in the West Indies, I believe, and
there's a trifle of--well, of dark blood in 'em, sir, I should think; though, of course, it
ain't for me to say."

"Yes--there are many such families in the French West Indies. Did you ever hear of Alexandre
Dumas?"

"No, sir, can't say I did."

"Well, he was a very great Frenchman indeed, but he had as much 'dark blood' as your master
had--probably more; and it came from the West Indies, too. But go on."

"Mr. Peytral, you must understand, sir, has lived here a year or two--I've only been with him
nine months. He talked English always--as good as you or me; and he was always called Mr. Peytral--not
Monsieur, or Signor, or any o' them foreign titles. I think he was naturalised. Mrs. Peytral,
she's an invalid--came here an invalid, I'm told. She never comes out of her bedroom 'cept
on an invalid couch, which is carried. Miss Claire, she's the daughter, an' the only one, and
she was hoping you'd ha' been down last night, sir, by the last train. She's in an awful state,
as you may expect, sir."

"Naturally, to lose her father in such a terrible way."

"Yes, sir, but it's wuss than that even, for her. You see, this Mr. Bowmore, that they've took
up, he's been sort of keepin' company with Miss Claire for some time, an' there's no doubt
she was very fond of him. That makes it pretty bad for her, takin' it both ways, you see."

"Of course--terrible. But tell me how the thing happened, and why they took this Mr. Bowmore."

"Well, sir, it ain't exactly for me to say, and, of course, I don't know the rights of it,
bein' only a servant, but they say there was a sudden quarrel last night between Mr. Peytral
and Mr. Bowmore. I think myself that Mr. Peytral was getting a bit excitable lately, whatever
it was. On Thursday night, just after dinner, he went strolling off in the dusk, alone, and
presently Mr. Bowmore--he came down in the afternoon--went strolling off after him. It seems
they went down toward the Penn's Meadow barn, Mr. Peytral first, and Mr. Bowmore catching him
up from behind. A man saw them--a gamekeeper. He was lyin' quiet in a little wood just the
other side of Penn's Meadow, an' they didn't see him as they came along together. They were
quarrelling, it seems, though Grant--that's the gamekeeper--couldn't hear exactly what about;
but he heard Mr. Peytral tell Mr. Bowmore to go away. He 'preferred to be alone' and he'd 'had
enough' of Mr. Bowmore, from what Grant could make out. 'Get out o' my sight, sir, I tell you!'
the old gentleman said at last, stamping his foot, and shaking his fist in the young gentleman's
face. And then Bowmore turned and walked away."

"One moment," Hewitt interposed. "You are telling me what Grant saw and heard. How did it come
to your knowledge?"

"Told me hisself, sir--told me every word yesterday. Told me twice, in fact. First thing in
the morning when they found the body, and then again after he'd been to Redfield and had it
took down by the police. It was because of that they arrested Mr. Bowmore, of course."

"Just so. And is this gamekeeper Grant in the same employ as yourself?"

"Oh, no, sir! Mr. Peytral's is only just an acre or two of garden and a paddock. Grant's master
is Colonel White, up at the Hall."

"Very good. You were saying that Mr. Peytral told Mr. Bowmore to get out of his sight, and
that Mr. Bowmore walked away. What then?"

"Well, Grant saw Mr. Bowmore walk away, but it was only a feint--a dodge, you see, sir. He
walked away to the corner of the little wood where Grant was, and then he took a turn into
the wood and began following Mr. Peytral up, watching him from among the trees. Came close
by where Grant was sitting, following up Mr. Peytral and watching him; and so Grant lost sight
of 'em."

"Did Grant say what he was doing in the wood?"

"He said he'd found marks of rabbit-snares there, and he was watching to see if anybody came
to set any more."

"Yes--quite an ordinary part of his duty, of course. What next?"

"Well, Grant didn't see any more. He waited a bit, and then moved off to another part of the
wood, and he didn't notice anything else particular till the barn was on fire. It was dark,
then, of course."

"Yes--you must tell me about the fire. Who discovered it?"

"Oh, a man going home along the lane. He ran and called some people, and they fetched the fire-engine
from the village and pumped out of the horse-pond just close by. It was pretty much of a wreck
by the time they got the fire out, but it wasn't all gone, as you might have expected. You
see, it had been out of use for some time, sir, and there was mostly nothing but old broken
ploughs and lumber there; and what's more, there was a deal of rain early in the week, as you
may remember, sir, so the thatch was pretty sodden, being out o' repair and all--and so was
the timber, for the matter o' that, for there's no telling when it was last painted. So the
fire didn't go quite so fierce as it might, you see; else I should expect it had been all over
before they got to work on it."

"Not at all a likely sort of place to catch fire, it would seem, either," Hewitt commented.
"Old ploughs and such lumber are not very combustible."

"Quite so, sir; that's what makes 'em think it so odd, I suppose. But there was a bundle or
two of old pea-straw there, shied in last summer, they say, being over bundles from the last
load, and there left."

"And when was Mr. Bowmore seen next?"

"He came strolling back, sir, and told the young lady he'd left her father outside, or something
of that sort, I think; said nothing of the quarrel, I believe. But he said the barn was on
fire--which he must have known pretty early, sir, for 'tis a mile from the house off that way;"
and the coachman pointed with his whip.

"Nothing was suspected of the murder, it seems, till yesterday morning?"

"No, sir. Miss Claire got frightful worried when her father didn't come home, as you would
expect, and specially at him not coming home all night. But when the fire was quite put out,
o' course the people went away home to bed, and it wasn't till the morning that anybody went
in to turn the place over. Then they found the body."

"Badly burnt, I believe?"

"Horrid burnt, sir. If it wasn't for Mr. Peytral's being missing, I doubt if they'd have known
it was him at all. It took a doctor's examination to see clear that the throat had been cut.
But cut it had been, and deep, so the doctor said. And now the body's gone over to Redfield
mortuary."

Hewitt asked a few questions more, and got equally direct answers, except where the coachman
had to confess ignorance. But presently we were at the house to which Hewitt had been summoned.

It was a pleasant house enough, standing alone, apart from the village, a little way back from
a loop of road that skirted a patch of open green. As we came in at the front gate, I caught
an instant's glimpse of a pale face at an upper window, and before we could reach the drawing-room
door Miss Claire Peytral had met us.

She was a young lady of singular beauty, which the plain signs of violent grief and anxiety
very little obscured. Her complexion, of a very delicate ivory tinge, was scarcely marred by
the traces of sleeplessness and tears that were nevertheless clear to see. Her eyes were large
and black, and her jetty hair had a slight waviness that was the only distinct sign about her
of the remote blend of blood from an inferior race.

"Oh, Mr. Hewitt," she cried, "I am so glad you have come at last! I have been waiting--waiting
so long! And my poor mother is beginning to suspect!"

"You have not told her, then?"

"No, it will kill her when she knows, I'm sure--kill her on the spot. I have only said that
father is ill at--at Redfield. Oh, what shall I do?"

The poor girl seemed on the point of breakdown, and Hewitt spoke sharply and distinctly.

"What you must do is this," he said. "You must attend to me, and tell me all I want to know
as accurately and as tersely as you can. In that case I will do whatever I can, but if you
give way you will cripple me. It all depends on you, remember. This is my intimate friend,
Mr. Brett, who is good enough to offer to help us. Now, first, I think I know the heads of
the case, from the newspapers, and, more especially, from your coachman. But when you sent
for me, no doubt you had some definite idea or intention in your mind. What was it?"

"Oh, he is innocent, Mr. Hewitt--he is, really! The only friend I have in the world--the only
friend we all have!"

"Steady--steady," Hewitt said, pressing her kindly and firmly into a seat. "You must keep steady,
you know, if I am to do anything. I expected that would be your belief. Now tell me why you
are so sure."

"Mr. Hewitt, if you knew him you wouldn't ask. He would never injure my poor father--he went
out after him purely out of kindness, because I was uneasy. He would never hurt him, Mr. Hewitt,
never, never! I can't say it strongly enough--he never would! Oh! my poor father, and now----"

"Steady again!" cried Hewitt, more sharply still. I could see that he feared the hysterical
breakdown that might come at any moment after the lengthened suspense Miss Peytral had suffered.
"Listen, now--you mustn't frighten yourself too much. If Mr. Bowmore is innocent--and you say
you are so certain of it--then I've no doubt of finding a way to prove it if only you'll make
your best effort to help me, and keep your wits about you. As far as I can see at present there's
nothing against him that we need be afraid of if we tackle it properly, and, of course, the
police make arrests of this sort by way of precaution in a case like this, on the merest hint.
Come now, you say you were uneasy when your father went out after dinner on Thursday night. Why?"

"I don't know, quite, Mr. Hewitt. It was my mother that was uneasy, really, about something
she never explained to me. My father had taken to going out in the evening after dinner, just
in the way he did on Thursday night. I don't know why, but I think it had something to do with
my mother's anxiety."

"Did he dress for dinner?"

"No, not lately. He used to dress always, but he has dropped it of late."

Hewitt paused for a moment, thoughtfully. Then he said, "Mrs. Peytral is an invalid, I know,
and no doubt none the better for her anxiety. But if it could be managed I should like to ask
her a few questions. What do you think?"

But this Miss Peytral was altogether against. Her mother was suffering from spinal complaint,
it appeared, with very serious nervous complications, and there was no answering for the result
of the smallest excitement. She never saw strangers, and, if it could possibly be avoided,
it must be avoided now.

"Very well, Miss Peytral, I will first go and look at some things I must see, and I will do
without your mother's help as long as I possibly can. But now you must answer a few more questions
yourself, please."

Hewitt's questions produced little more substantial information, it seemed to me, than he had
already received. Mr. Peytral had taken the house in which we were sitting--it was called "The
Lodge" simply--two years ago. Before that the family had lived in Surrey, but they had not
moved direct from there; there was a journey to America between, on some business of Mr. Peytral's,
and it was on the return voyage that they had met Mr. Percy Bowmore. Mr. Bowmore had no friends
nearer than Canada, and he was reading for the Bar--in a very desultory way, as I gathered.
Miss Peytral's childhood had been passed in the West Indies, at the town of San Domingo, in
fact, where her father had been a merchant. Her mother had been a helpless invalid ever since
Miss Peytral could remember. As to the engagement with Bowmore, it would seem to have had the
full approval of both parents all along. But a rather curious change had come over her father,
she thought, a few months ago. What it was that had caused it she could not say, but he grew
nervous and moody, often absent-minded, and sometimes even short-tempered and snappish, a thing
she had never known before. Also he read the daily papers with much care and eagerness. It
was plain that Miss Peytral had no idea of any cause which might have led to a quarrel between
Bowmore and her father, and Hewitt's most cunning questions failed to elicit the smallest suggestion
of reason for such an occurrence.

Ten days or so ago, Mr. Peytral had returned from a short walk after dinner, very much agitated;
and from that day he had made a practice of going out immediately after dinner every evening
regularly, walking off across the paddock, and so away in the direction of Penn's Meadow. The
first visit of Percy Bowmore after this practice had begun was on Thursday, but the presence
of the visitor made no difference, as Miss Peytral had expected it would. Her father rose abruptly
after dinner and went off as before; and this time Mrs. Peytral, who had been brought down
to dinner, displayed a singular uneasiness about him. She had experienced the same feeling,
curiously enough, on other occasions, Miss Peytral remarked, when her husband had been unwell
or in difficulties, even at some considerable distance. This time the feeling was so strong
that she begged Bowmore to hurry after Mr. Peytral and accompany him in his walk. This the
young man had done; but he returned alone after a while, saying simply that he had lost sight
of Mr. Peytral, whom he had supposed might have come home by some other way; and mentioning
also that he had been told that Penn's Meadow barn was on fire.

When it grew late, and Mr. Peytral failed to return, Bowmore went out again and made inquiry
in all directions. It grew necessary to concoct a story to appease Mrs. Peytral, who had been
taken back to her bedroom. Bowmore spent the whole night in fruitless search and inquiry, and
then, with the morning, came the terrible news of the discovery in the burnt barn; and late
in the afternoon Bowmore was arrested.

The poor girl had a great struggle to restrain her feelings during the conversation, and, at
its close, Hewitt had to use all his tact to keep her going. Physical exhaustion, as well as
mental trouble, were against her, and stimulus was needed. So Hewitt said, "Now you must try
your best, and if you will keep up as well as you have done a little longer, perhaps I may
have good news for you soon. I must go at once and examine things. First, I should like to
have brought to me every single pair of boots or shoes belonging to your father. Send them,
and then go and look after your mother. Remember, you are helping all the time."

III

Hewitt examined the boots and shoes with great rapidity, but with a singularly quick eye for
peculiarities.

"He liked a light shoe," he said, "and he preferred to wear shoes rather than boots. There
are few boots, and those not much worn, although he was living in the country. Trod square
on the right foot, inward on the left, and wore the left heel more than the right. It's plain
he hated nails, for these are all hand-sewn, with scarcely as much as a peg visible in the
lot; and they are all laced, boots and shoes alike. Come, this is the best-worn pair; it is
also a pair of the same sort the maid tells me he must have been wearing, since they are missing;
low shoes, laced; we'll take them with us."

We left the house and sought our friend the coachman. He pointed out quite clearly the path
by which his master had gone on his last walk; showed us the gate, still fastened, over which
he had climbed to gain the adjoining meadow, and put us in the way of finding the small wood
and the barn.

Both within and without the gate there was a small patch bare of grass, worn by feet; and here
Martin Hewitt picked up his trail at once.

"The ground has hardened since Thursday night," he said; "and so much the better--it keeps
the marks for us. Do you see what is here?"

There were footmarks, certainly, but so beaten and confused that I could make nothing of them.
Hewitt's practised eye, however, read them as I might have read a rather illegibly written letter.

"Here is the right foot, plain enough," he said, carefully fitting the shoe he had brought
in the mark. "He alighted on that as he came over the gate. Half over it is another footmark--Bowmore's,
I expect, for I can see signs of others, in both directions--going and coming. But we shall
know better presently."

He rose, and we followed the irregular track across the meadow. Like most such field-tracks,
its direction was plainly indicated by the thin and beaten grass, with a bare spot here and
there. Hewitt troubled to take no more than a glance at each of these spots as we passed, but
that was all he needed. The meadow was bounded by a hedge, with a stile; and at the farther
side of this stile my friend knelt again, with every sign of attention.

"A little piece of luck," he reported. "The left shoe has picked up a tiny piece of broken
thorn-twig just here. See the mark? The shoe was a little soddened in the sole by this time,
and the thorn stuck. I hope it stuck altogether. If it did it may help us wonderfully when
we get to the barn, for the trouble there will be the trampling all round of the people at
the fire."

So we went on till we reached the edge of the little wood. The field-path skirted this, and
here Hewitt dropped on his knees and set to work with great minuteness.

"Keep away from the track, Brett," he warned me, "or you may make it worse. The police have
been here, I see, and quite recently, coming from the direction of Redfield. Here are two pairs
of unmistakable police boots and another heavy pair with them; no doubt they brought the gamekeeper
along with them, to have things fully explained."

From the corner of the wood to a point forty yards along the path; back to the corner again,
and then into the wood Hewitt went, carefully examining every inch of the ground as he did
so. Then at last he rejoined me.

"I think the gamekeeper has told the truth," he said. "It's pretty plain, thanks to the soft
ground hereabout, notwithstanding the policemen's boots. Here they came together--the thorn-twig
sticks to the shoe still, you see--and here they stopped. The marks face about, and Bowmore's
steps are retraced to the corner of the wood. Peytral's turn again and go on, and Bowmore's
turn into the edge of the wood and come along among the trees. You don't see them in the grassy
parts quite as well as I do, I expect, but there they are. We'll keep after Peytral's prints.
Bowmore's come back in the same track, I see."

The next stile led to Penn's Meadow. This meadow--a large one--stretched over a rather steep
hump of land, at the other side of which the barn stood. From the stile two paths could be
discerned--one rising straight over the meadow in the direction of the barn, and the other
skirting it to the left, parallel with the hedge.

"Here the footprints part," Hewitt observed, musingly; "and what does that mean? Man[oe]uvring--or
what?"

He thought a moment, and then went on: "We'll leave the tracks for the present and see the
barn. That is straight ahead, I take it."

When we reached the top of the rise the barn came in view, a blackened and sinister wreck.
The greater part of the main structure was still standing, and even part of the thatched roof
still held its place, scorched and broken. Off to the right from where we stood the village
roofs were visible, giving indication of the position of the road to Redfield. A single human
figure was in sight--that of a policeman on guard before the barn.

"Now we must get rid of that excellent fellow," said Hewitt, "or he'll be offering objections
to the examination I want to make. I wonder if he knows my name?"

We walked down to the barn, and Hewitt, assuming the largest possible air, addressed the policeman.

"Constable," he said, "I am here officially--here is my card. Of course you will know the name
if you have had any wide experience--London experience especially. I am looking into this case
on behalf of Miss Peytral--co-operating with the police, of course. Where is your inspector?"

He was a rather stupid countryman, this policeman, but he was visibly impressed--even flurried--by
Hewitt's elaborate bumptiousness. He saluted, tried to look unnaturally sagacious, and confessed
that he couldn't exactly say where the inspector was, things being put about so just now. He
might be in Throckham village, but more likely he was at Redfield.

"Ah!" Hewitt replied, with condescension. "Now, if he is in the village, you will oblige me,
constable, by telling him that I am here. If he is not there, you will return at once. I will
be responsible here till you come back. Don't be very long, now."

The man was taken by surprise, and possibly a trifle doubtful. But Hewitt was so extremely
lofty and so very peremptory and official, that the inferior intelligence capitulated feebly,
and presently, after another uneasy salute, the village policeman had vanished in the direction
of the road. The moment he had disappeared Hewitt turned to the ruined barn. The door was gone,
and the scorched and charred lumber that littered the place had a look of absolute ghostliness--perhaps
chiefly the effect of my imagination in the knowledge of the ghastly tragedy that the place
had witnessed. Well in from the doorway was a great scatter of light ashes--plainly the pea-straw
that the coachman had spoken of. And by these ashes and partly among them, marked in some odd
manner on the floor, was a horrible black shape that I shuddered to see, as Hewitt pointed
it out with a moving forefinger, which he made to trace the figure of a prostrate human form.

"Did you never see that before in a burnt house?" Hewitt asked in a hushed voice. "I have,
more than once. That sort of thing always leaves a strange stain under it, like a shadow."

But business claimed Martin Hewitt, and he stepped carefully within. Scarcely had he done so,
when he stood suddenly still, with a low whistle, pointing toward something lying among the
dirt and ashes by the foot of that terrible shape.

"See?" he said. "Don't disturb anything, but look!"

I crept in with all the care I could command, and stooped. The place was filled with such a
vast confusion of lumber and cinder and ash that at first I failed to see at all what had so
startled Hewitt's attention. And even when I understood his direction, all I saw was about
a dozen little wire loops, each a quarter of an inch long or less, lying among a little grey
ash that clung about the ends of some of the loops in clots. Even as I looked another thing
caught Hewitt's eye. Among the straw-ashes there lay some cinders of paper and card, and near
them another cinder, smaller, and plainly of some other substance. Hewitt took my walking-stick,
and turned this cinder over. It broke apart as he did so, and from within it two or three little
charred sticks escaped. Hewitt snatched one up and scrutinised it closely.

"Do you see the tin ferrule?" he said. "It has been a brush; and that was a box of colours!"
He pointed to the cinder at his feet. "That being so," he went on, "that paper and card was
probably a sketch-book. Brett! come outside a bit. There's something amazing here!"

We went outside, and Hewitt faced me with a curious expression that for the life of me I could
not understand.

"Suppose," he said, "that Mr. Victor Peytral is not dead after all?"

"Not dead?" I gasped; "but--but he is! We know----"

"It seems to me," Hewitt pursued, with his eyes still fixed on mine, "that we know very little
indeed of this affair, as yet. The body was unrecognisable, or very near it. You remember what
the coachman said? 'If it wasn't for Mr. Peytral's being missing,' he said, 'I doubt if they'd
have known it was him at all.' I think those were his exact words. More, you must remember
that the body has not been seen by either of Peytral's relatives."

"But then," I protested, "if it isn't his body whose is it?"

"Ah, indeed," Hewitt responded, "whose is it? Don't you see the possibilities of the thing?
There's a colour-box and a sketch-book burned. Who carried a colour-box and a sketch-book?
Not Peytral, or we should have heard of it from his daughter; she made a particular point of
her father's evening strolls being quite aimless, so far as her knowledge or conjecture went;
she knew nothing of any sketching. And another thing--don't you see what those things mean?"
He pointed toward the place of the little wire loops.

"Not at all."

"Man, don't you see they've been boot-buttons? When the boots shrivelled, the threads were
burnt and the buttons dropped off. Boot-buttons are made of a sort of composition that burns
to a grey ash, once the fire really gets hold of them--as you may try yourself, any time you
please. You can see the ash still clinging to some of the shanks; and there the shanks are,
lying in two groups, six and six, as they fell! Now Peytral came out in laced shoes."

"But if Peytral isn't dead, where is he?"

"Precisely," rejoined Hewitt, with the curious expression still in his eyes. "As you say, where
is he? And as you said before, who is the dead man? Who is the dead man, and where is Peytral,
and why has he gone? Don't you see the possibilities of the case now?"

Light broke upon me suddenly. I saw what Hewitt meant. Here was a possible explanation of the
whole thing--Peytral's recent change of temper, his evening prowlings, his driving away of
Bowmore, and lastly, of his disappearance--his flight, as it now seemed probable it was. The
case had taken a strange turn, and we looked at one another with meaning eyes. It might be
that Hewitt, begged by the unhappy girl we had but just left to prove the innocence of her
lover, would by that very act bring her father to the gallows.

"Poor girl!" Hewitt murmured, as we stood staring at one another. "Better she continued to
believe him dead, as she does! Brett, there's many a good man would be disposed to fling these
proofs away for the girl's sake and her mother's, seeing how little there can be to hurt Bowmore.
But justice must be done, though the blow fall--as it commonly does--on innocent and guilty
together. See, now, I've another idea. Stay on guard while I try."

He hurried out toward the farther side of the broad band of trampled ground which surrounded
the burnt barn, and began questing to and fro, this way and that, receding farther from me
as he went, and nearing the horse-pond and the road. At last he vanished altogether, and left
me alone with the burnt barn, my thoughts, and--that dim Shape on the barn floor. It was broad
day, but I felt none too happy; and I should not have been at all anxious to keep the police
watch at night.

Perhaps Hewitt had been gone a quarter of an hour, perhaps a little more, when I saw him again,
hurrying back and beckoning to me. I went to meet him.

"It's right enough," he cried. "I've come on his trail again! There it is, thorn-mark and all,
by the roadside, and at a stile--going to Redfield--probably to the station. Come, we'll follow
it up! Where's that fool of a policeman? Oh, the muddle they can make when they really try!"

"Need we wait for him?" I asked.

"Yes, better now, with those proofs lying there; and we must tell him not to be bounced off
again as I bounced him off. There he comes!"

The heavy figure of the local policeman was visible in the distance, and we shouted and beckoned
to hurry him. Agility was no part of that policeman's nature, however, and beyond a sudden
agitation of his head and his shoulders, which we guessed to be caused by a dignified spasm
of leisurely haste, we saw no apparent acceleration of his pace.

As we stood and waited we were aware of a sound of wheels from the direction of Redfield, and
as the policeman neared us from the right, so the sound of wheels approached us from the left.
Presently a fly hove in sight--the sort of dusty vehicle that plies at every rural railway
station in this country; and as he caught sight of us in the road the driver began waving his
whip in a very singular and excited manner. As he drew nearer still he shouted, though at first
we could not distinguish his words. By this time the policeman, trotting ponderously, was within
a few yards. The passenger in the fly, a thin, dark, elderly man, leaned over the side to look
ahead at us, and with that the policeman pulled up with a great gasp and staggered into the ditch.

"'Ere 'e is!" cried the fly-driver, regardless of the angry remonstrances of his fare. "'Ere
'e is! 'E's all right! It ain't 'im! 'Ere he is!"

"Shut your mouth, you fool!" cried the angry fare. "Will you stop making a show of me?"

"Not me!" cried the eccentric cabman. "I don't want no fare, sir! I'm drivin' you 'ome for
honour an' glory, an' honour an' glory I'll make it! 'Ere 'e is!"

Hewitt took in the case in a flash--the flabbergasted policeman, the excited cabman and the
angry passenger. He sprang into the road and cried to the cabman, who pulled up suddenly before us.

"Mr. Victor Peytral, I believe?" said Martin Hewitt.

"Yes, sir," answered the dark gentleman snappishly, "but I don't know you!"

"There has been a deal of trouble here, Mr. Peytral, over your absence from home, as no doubt
you have become aware; and I was telegraphed for by your daughter. My name is Hewitt--Martin
Hewitt."

Peytral's face changed instantly. "I know your name well, Mr. Hewitt," he said. "There's a
matter--but who is this?"

"My friend, Mr. Brett, who is good enough to help me to-day. If I may detain you a moment,
I should like a word with you aside."

"Certainly."

Mr. Peytral alighted, and the two walked a little apart.

I saw Hewitt talking and pointing toward the burnt barn, and I well guessed what he was saying.
He was giving Peytral warning of what he had discovered in the barn, explaining that he must
give the information to the police, and asking if, in those circumstances, Peytral wished to
go home, or to make other arrangements. Often Hewitt's duty to his clients and his duty as
a law-upholding citizen between them put him in some such delicate position.

But there was no hesitation in Mr. Victor Peytral. Plainly he feared nothing, and he was going
home.

"Very well, then," I heard Hewitt say as they turned towards us, "perhaps we had better go
on slowly and let my friend cut across the fields first to break the news. Brett--I knew you
would be useful, sooner or later."

And so I hurried off, with the happy though delicate mission to restore both father and lover
to Miss Claire Peytral.

IV

Miss Peytral had to be put to bed under care of a nurse, for the revulsion was very great,
and so was her physical prostration. Bowmore, now set free, and in himself a very pleasant
young fellow, came with hurried inquiries and congratulations, and then rushed off to London
to cable to his friends in Canada, for fear of the effect of newspaper telegrams.

When at last Hewitt and I sat with Mr. Peytral in his study, "Mr. Hewitt," said Peytral, "I
am not sure how far explanations may go between us. There is more in that death in the barn
than the police will ever guess."

Peytral was haggard and drawn, for, as he had let slip already, he had scarce slept an hour
since leaving home on Thursday.

"I am tired," he said, "and worn out, but that is not a novelty with me; and I'm not sure but
we may be of use to each other. Did my daughter tell you why she sent Mr. Bowmore after me
on Thursday night?"

Hewitt explained the thing as briefly as possible, just as he had heard it from Miss Peytral.

"Ah," said Peytral, thoughtfully. "So she thought my manner became moody a few months back.
It did, no doubt, for I had memories; and more, I had apprehensions. Mr. Hewitt, I think I
read in the papers that you were in some way engaged in the extraordinary case of the murder
of Mr. Jacob Mason?"

"That is quite correct. I was."

"There was another case, a little while before, which possibly you may not have heard of. A
man was found strangled near the York column, by Pall Mall, with just such a mark on his forehead
as was found on Mr. Mason's."

"I know that case, too, as well as the other."

"Do you know the name of the murderer?"

"I think I do. We speak in confidence, of course, as client and professional man?"

"Of course. What was his name?"

"I have heard two--Everard Myatt and Catherton Hunt."

"Neither is his real name, and I doubt if anybody but himself knows it. Twenty years ago and
more I knew him as Mayes. He was a Jamaican. Mr. Hewitt, that man's foul life has been justly
forfeit a thousand times, but if it belongs to anybody it belongs to me!"

It was terrible to see the sudden fiery change in the old man. His lassitude was gone in a
flash, his eyes blazed and his nostrils dilated.

For a little while he sat so, his mouth awork with passion; then he sank back in his chair
with a sigh.

"I am getting old," he said, more quietly, "and perhaps I am not strong enough to lose my temper....
Well, as I said, Mayes was a Jamaican, a renegade white. Do you remember that in the black
rebellion of 1865, there was a traitorous white man among the negroes? Eyre hanged a few rebels,
and rightly, but the worst creature on all that island escaped--probably escaped by the aid
of that very white skin that should have ensured him a greater punishment than the rest. He
escaped to Hayti. Now you have probably heard something of Hayti, and of the common state of
affairs there?"

We both had heard, and, indeed, the matter had been particularly brought to Hewitt's notice
by the case which I have told elsewhere as "The Affair of the Tortoise." As for me, I had read
Sir Spenser St. John's book on the black republic, and I had been greatly impressed by the
graphic picture it gives of the horrible, blood-stained travesty of regular government there
prevailing. Nothing in the worst of the South American Republics is to be remotely compared
to it. In the worst periods there was not a crime imaginable that could not be, and was not,
committed openly and with impunity by anybody on the right side of the so-called "government";
and the "government" was nothing but an organised crime in itself.

"Well," Peytral pursued, "then I need not expatiate on it, and you will understand the sort
of place that Mayes fled to, and how it suited him. He was a man of far greater ability than
any of the coarse scoundrels in power, and he was worse than all of them. He was not such a
fool as to aim at ostensible political power--that way generally led to assassination. He was
the jackal, the contriver, the power behind the throne, the instigator of half the devilry
set going in that unhappy place, and he profited by it with little risk; he was the confidential
adviser of that horrible creature Domingue. If you know anything of Hayti you will know what
that means.

"At this time I was comparatively a young man, and a merchant at Port-au-Prince. It was a bad
place, of course, and business was risky enough, but, for that very reason, profits were large,
and that was an attraction to a sanguine young man like myself. I did very well, and I had
thoughts of getting out of it with what I had made. But it was a fatal thing to be supposed
wealthy in Port-au-Prince, unless you were a villain in power, or partner with one. I was neither,
and I was judged a suitable victim by Mayes. Not I alone, either--no, nor even only I and my
fortune. Gentlemen, gentlemen, my poor wife, who now lies----"

Peytral's utterance failed him. He rose as if choking, and Hewitt rose to quiet him. "Never
mind," he said, "sit quiet now. We understand. Rest a moment."

The old man sank back in his chair, and for a little while buried his face in his hands. Then
he went on.

"I needn't go into details," he said, huskily. "It is enough to say that every devilish engine
of force and cunning was put in operation against me. So it came that at last, on a hint from
a hanger-on of the police-office, who had enough humanity in him to remember a kindness he
had experienced at my hands, that we took flight in the middle of the night--my poor wife,
myself, and our three children, with nothing in the world but our bare lives and the clothes
we wore. I might have tried to get aboard a foreign ship in the harbour, but I knew that would
be useless. I should have been given up on whatever criminal charge Mayes chose to present,
and my wife and children with me. I had hope of somehow getting to San Cristobel, where I had
a friend--over the border in the other Government of the island, the Dominican Republic. That
was eighty miles away and more, across swamps, and forests and mountains. Well, we did it--we
did it. We did it, Mr. Hewitt, and I dream of it still. They hunted us, sir--hunted us with
dogs. We hid from them a whole day among the rank weeds--up to our shoulders in the water of
a pestilential fever-swamp; Claire, the baby, on her mother's back, and both the boys on mine.
They died--they died next day. My two beautiful boys, gentlemen, died in my arms, and I was
too weak even to bury them!"

There was another long pause, and the man's head was bowed in his hands once more. Presently
he went on again, but at first without lifting his head.

"We did it, gentlemen," he said--"we did it. We crawled into San Cristobel at the end of five
days; and from that moment my dear wife has never once stood upright on her feet. So we came
out of it, and the baby, Claire, was the one that suffered least. She was too young to understand,
and her mother--her mother saved her, when I could not save the boys!"

He paused again, and presently sat up, pale, but in full command of himself. "You will excuse
me, gentlemen, I am sure, and make allowances for my feelings," he said. "There is not a great
deal more to tell. Mayes did not last long in Hayti. Domingue was overthrown, and Mayes left
the island, I was told, and made for another part of the world. Years afterward I heard of
his being in China, though what truth there may have been in the rumour I cannot say.

"My friend in San Cristobel--he was a cousin, in fact--put me on my legs again, and after a
while he helped me to begin business at San Domingo, under my present name, Peytral, which,
in fact, was my mother's maiden name. There came a sudden push in trade with the United States
about this time, and I went into my affairs with the more energy to distract my thoughts. In
fifteen years--to cut a long story short--I had made the small competency which I have brought
to England with me, with the idea of a peaceful end to my life and my wife's; though I doubt
if I am to have that now. I doubt it, and I will tell you why. Mr. Hewitt, when I went away
without warning on Thursday night I was dogging Mayes!"

Hewitt nodded, with no sign of surprise. "And the man killed in the barn?"

"That is one more of his thousand crimes, without a doubt. Though it differs. Do you know what
drew my attention to the murders of the men Denson and Mason, and so set me thinking? In each
case the murder was by strangulation, and the medical evidence at the inquests showed that
it was effected by means of a tourniquet. In fact, in the second case, the tourniquet itself
was left behind."

"Yes," Hewitt replied, "I loosened it myself--but, unfortunately, I was too late."

"Well, now," Peytral went on, "in Hayti, in my time, Mayes's enemies had a habit of dying suddenly
in the night, by strangulation, and a tourniquet was always the instrument. And just as murder
was quite a popular procedure in that accursed place, so strangulation by tourniquet became
for a while the most common form of the crime. It was rapid, effective, and silent, you see.
So that a murder by tourniquet, quite an unknown thing in this country, took my attention at
once, and when another followed it so soon, I felt something like certainty. And the triangle
was suggestive, too."

"Were Mayes's victims marked in that way in Hayti?"

"No, there was no mark. But"--here Mr. Peytral's features assumed a curious expression--"there
are things which are not believed in this country--which are laughed at, in fact, and called
superstition. You know something of Hayti, and therefore you must have heard of Voodoo--the
witchcraft and devil-worship of the West Indies. Well, Mayes was as deep in that as he was
in every other species of wickedness. It sounds foolish, perhaps, here in civilised England,
and you may laugh, but I tell you that Mayes could make men do as he wished, with their consent
or against it! And he used a thing--it was generally known that he used a thing marked with
a triangle--a Red Triangle--by the use of which he could bend men to his will!"

Hewitt was listening intently, with no sign of laughter at all, notwithstanding his client's
apprehension. And I remembered the case of Mr. Jacob Mason, and how that victim had so fervently
expressed his wish to the excellent clergyman, Mr. Potswood, that he had never dabbled in the
strange devilries of Myatt--or Mayes, as we were now learning to call him.

"At any rate," Peytral resumed, "you will understand that the conjunction of the tourniquet
with the Red Triangle in the two cases you know of caused me some excitement. My daughter,
as you have said, noticed a change in my habits from that time; my wife did more--she knew
the reason. Mr. Hewitt, I am an older man, but there is hotter blood in my veins than in yours.
My father was English--though you might scarcely suppose it--but my mother, to whose name I
have reverted, was a French Creole. So perhaps my natural instincts come nearer to those of
our savage ancestry than do yours. Whether or not you will understand me I do not know, but
I can tell you that even now, in cold blood--for my paroxysm has exhausted itself and me--it
seems to me that it would be my duty, not to say my sacred duty, to tear that man to pieces
with my hands whenever and wherever I could put them on him! My old passions may have slept,
I find, but they are alive still, and I found them waking when I realised that Mayes was alive
and in England. The words 'sane' and 'insane' are elastic in their application, but I doubt
if you would have called me strictly sane of late. I evolved mad schemes for the destruction
of this wretch, and I was ready to devote myself and everything I possessed to the purpose.
More than once I contemplated coming to you--seeing that you had met the man in one of his
villainies--with the idea of enlisting your aid. But I reflected that you would probably make
yourself no party to a plan of private revenge, and I hesitated. And then--then, a little more
than a week ago, I saw the man himself! Changed, without doubt, but not half as much changed
as I am myself. Nevertheless, sure as I am of him now, I hesitated then. For it was here in
the meadow that you know, near the barn, and the thing seemed so likely to be illusion that
I almost suspected my senses. It was dusk, and he was walking and talking with another man,
a good deal younger. And presently, while I was still confounded with surprise, and as they
passed behind a clump of trees, Mayes was gone, and I saw his companion alone. He was a young
man--an artist, it would seem, with sketch-book and colours."

I started, and Hewitt and I glanced at each other. Peytral saw it and paused. "Never mind,"
said Hewitt. "Please go on."

"After that I came out every night, in the hope of seeing my enemy again. On several evenings
I saw the young artist waiting by the barn expectantly, but nobody joined him. I found that
this young man was lodging at a cottage in the village, and I resolved not to lose sight of him.

"At last, on Thursday night, I saw Mayes again. Mr. Bowmore was here, and when I left the house
he troubled me much by coming after me. I was obliged to tell him that I wished to be alone,
and I was in a nervously explosive state when I did it. He seemed reluctant to go; my anger
blazed out, and I violently ordered him off. From what he has told me it seems that he followed
me still, but lost sight of me near Penn's Meadow. Well, be that as it may, I saw Mayes and
the young artist again. I watched from a rather awkward spot, and dusk was falling, so that
I could not see all that passed; but presently I was aware that Mayes was making off by the
road alone, and I followed him.

"From that moment I think I really was mad, though my madness did not drive me to attack him
at once. I had a feeling of curiosity to see where he would go, and a curious cruel idea of
letting him run for a little first--as a cat feels, I suppose, with a mouse. You may judge
that I was not in my normal state of mind from the fact that all through yesterday and part
of to-day I never as much as thought of telegraphing home to say that I had gone to London.
For it was to London I followed him. I took no ticket at the station--I got on the platform
by stealth, and entered the train unobserved, for he and one boy were the only passengers,
and I feared attracting attention. It was easy enough, in such a station as Redfield, and I
paid my fare at London. And after all I lost him! Lost him in London!"

"How?"

"Like a fool. I saw him enter a house, and waited. Followed him again, and waited at another.
I might have flung him into the river from the Embankment, and I refrained. And then--whether
it began at a dark corner or in a group of people I cannot tell, but I suddenly discovered
that I was following a stranger--a stranger of about Mayes's form and stature. It was what
I should have expected, and provided for, in London streets at night!

"If I have been mad, it was then I was worst. I suppose by that time it must have been too
late to get back home, but I never thought of that. I ran the streets the whole night, like
a fool, hunting for Mayes. I kept on all day yesterday. I waited and watched hours at the two
houses he had visited; and it was not till early this morning that I flung myself on a bed
in a private hotel in Euston Road. I slept a little, and my paroxysm was over. Perhaps I am
more fortunate than I am disposed to think, since I am as yet in no danger of trial for murder."

This passionate, wayward, stricken man was plainly the object of fascinated interest to Hewitt.
My friend waited a moment, and then said--"The houses he called at--I should like to know them.
And where you lost sight of him."

Peytral sat back, and gazed thoughtfully for fully half a minute in Hewitt's face. "Do you
know," he said at length, "I don't think I'll answer that question now. I'd like to leave it
for a day or two. Yesterday I wouldn't have told you, even on the rack--no, not a word! I should
have said, 'Take your own chances, and get him if you can. As for me, I consider him my prey,
and what scent I have picked up I shall use myself!' A mad fancy, you will think, perhaps.
For me the question is, was I sanest then or now? I will take a day or two to think."

V

In less than a day or two the identity of the victim of the burnt barn was established. For
Hewitt had his idea, and he communicated with Plummer, of Scotland Yard. The man with the buttoned
boots and the sketch-book was the artist who had been staying at the cottage in the village,
but who, singularly enough, had never been seen to draw, and had left no drawings behind him.
He had warned the people of the cottage that he might be away for a night or two, and he had
stayed away for two nights before; so that his disappearance did not disturb them, and when
they heard that Mr. Peytral's body had been found in the barn they accepted the news as fact.
They recognised at once a photograph produced by Plummer as that of their late lodger. And
the photograph had been procured from Messrs. Kingsley, Bell and Dalton, the intended victims
in the bond case, and it was one of Henning, their vanished correspondence clerk!

That his death would be convenient to Mayes, the greater scoundrel, was plain enough. The bond
robbery had been brought to naught, thanks to Martin Hewitt, and Henning was now useless. Worse,
he might be caught, or give himself up, and was thus a perpetual danger. And probably he wanted
money. This being so, it was a singular fact that at the inquest the surgeon who had examined
the wound gave it as his most positive opinion that it had been self-inflicted. And it was
inflicted with a razor, Henning's own, as was very clearly proved after inquiry. For the razor
was found in the barn by the police, entangled with the blackened frame of an old lantern.
Here was still another puzzle; one to which the final revelation of the mystery of the Red
Triangle gave an answer, as will be seen in due place.

THE CASE OF THE ADMIRALTY CODE

I

Quick on the heels of the case of the Burnt Barn followed the next of the Red Triangle affairs.
Indeed, the interval was barely two days. Mr. Victor Peytral, it will be remembered, had declined
to reveal to Hewitt the addresses of the two houses in London which he had seen Mayes visit,
desiring to think the matter over for a few days first; but before any more could be heard
from him, news of another sort was brought by Inspector Plummer.

It may give some clue to the period whereabout the whole mystery of the Red Triangle began
to be cleared up if I say that at the time of Plummer's visit this country was on the very
verge of war with a great European State. It is a State with which the present relations of
England are of the friendliest description, and, since the dreaded collision was happily averted,
there is no need to particularise in the matter now, especially as the name of the country
with which we were at variance matters nothing as regards the course of events I am to relate.
Though most readers will recognise it at once when I say that the war, had it come to that,
would have been a naval war of great magnitude; and that during the time of tension swift but
quiet preparations were going forward at all naval depôts, and movements and dispositions of
our fleet were arranged that extended to the remotest parts of the ocean.

It was at the height of the excitement, and, as I have said, two days after the return of Hewitt
and myself from Throckham, when the case of the Burnt Barn had been disposed of, that Detective-Inspector
Plummer called. I was in Hewitt's office at the time, having, in fact, called in on my way
to learn if he had heard more from Mr. Victor Peytral, for, as may be imagined, I was as eager
to penetrate the mystery of the Triangle as Hewitt himself--perhaps more so, since Hewitt was
a man inured to mysteries. I had hardly had time to learn that Peytral had not yet made up
his mind so far as to write, when Plummer pushed hurriedly into the room.

"Excuse my rushing in like this," he said, "but your lad told me that it was Mr. Brett who
was with you, and the matter needs hurry. You've heard no more of that fellow--Myatt, Hunt,
Mayes, whatever his name is last--since the barn murder, of course? Has Peytral given you the
tip he half promised?"

Hewitt shook his head again. "Brett has this moment come to ask the same question," he said.
"I have heard nothing."

"I must have it," said Plummer, emphatically. "Do you think he will tell me?"

Hewitt shook his head again. "Scarcely likely," he said. "He's an odd fellow, this Mr. Peytral--a
foreigner, with revenge in his blood. I have done him and his daughter some little service,
and he told me all his private history; but he seemed even then disposed to keep Mayes to himself
and let nobody interfere with his own vengeance. But I will wire if you like. What is it?"

"I'll tell you," said Plummer, pushing the door close behind him. "I'll tell you--in confidence,
of course--because you've seen more of this mysterious rascal than I have, and--equally in
confidence, of course--Mr. Brett may hear, too, since he's been in several of the cases already.
Well, of course, we all know well enough that we want this creature--Mayes, we may as well
call him, I suppose, now--for three murders, at least, to say nothing of other things. That's
all very well, and we might have got him with time. But now we want him for something else;
and it's such a thing that we must have him at once, or else"--and Plummer pursed his lips
and snapped his fingers significantly. "We can't wait over this, Mr. Hewitt; we've got to have
that man to-day, if it can be done. And there's more than ordinary depending on it. It's the
country this time. The Admiralty telegraphic code has been stolen!"

"By Mayes?"

Plummer shrugged his shoulders. "That's to be proved," he said; "but he was seen leaving the
office at about the time the loss occurred, and that's enough to set me after him; and there's
not another clue of any sort. Mr. Hewitt, I wish you were in the official service!"

Hewitt smiled. "You flatter me," he said, "as you have done before. But why in this case particularly?"

"It's a case altogether out of the ordinary, and one of a string of such, all of which you
have at your fingers' ends. And I don't mind confessing that this man Mayes is a little too
big a handful for one--for me, at any rate. I wish you could work with me over this; in fact,
in the special circumstances I've a good mind to ask to have you retained, as an exceptional
measure. But the thing's urgent, and there's red-tape!"

Hewitt had taken a glance at his desk tablet, which he now flung down.

"I'll do it for love," he said, "if necessary. My appointment list is uncommonly slack just
now, and even if it weren't, I'd make a considerable sacrifice rather than be out of this.
This fellow Mayes is a dangerous man; and I feel it a point of honour that he shall not continue
to escape. Moreover, I have begun to form a certain theory as to the Red Triangle, and all
there is at the back of it--a theory I would rather keep to myself till I see a little more,
since as it stands it may only strike you as fantastic, and if it is wrong it may lead some
of us off the track; but it is a theory I wish to test to the end. So I'm with you, Plummer,
if you'll allow it; and you can make your official application for a special retainer or not,
just as you please."

Plummer was plainly delighted.

"Most certainly I will," he said. "Shall I give you the heads of the case, or will you come
to the Admiralty and see for yourself?"

"Both, I think," said Hewitt. "But first I will send a telegram to Peytral. Then you can give
me the heads of the case as we go along, and I will look at the place for myself. I am in this
case heart and soul, pay or no pay--and I expect my friend Brett would like to be in it, too.
Is there any objection?"

"Well," Plummer answered, a little doubtfully, "we're glad of outside help, of course, but
I'm not sure, officially----"

"Of course you are always glad of outside help," Hewitt interrupted, "and in this case we may
possibly find Brett more useful than you think. Consider now. He has seen a good deal of these
cases--quite as much as you, in fact--but he is the only one of the three of us whom Mayes
does not know by sight. Remember, Mayes saw us both in the affair of Mr. Jacob Mason, and he
saw you again in the case of the Lever Key--escaped, in fact, because he instantly recognised
you. I'll answer for Brett's discretion, and I'm sure he'll be glad to help, even if, for official
reasons, you may not find it possible to admit him wholly into your counsels."

Of course I willingly assented, and the conditions understood, Plummer offered no further objection.
Hewitt despatched his telegram, and in a very few minutes we were in a cab on the way to the
Admiralty.

"This is the way of it," Plummer said. "You will remember that when we lost Mayes at the end
of the Lever Key case, I was waiting for him in that city office, with an assistant, and that
we only saw him for an instant in the lift. Well, that assistant was a very intelligent man
of mine, named Corder--a fellow with a wonderful memory for a face. Now Corder is on another
case just now, and we'd put him on, dressed like a loafer, to hang about Whitehall and the
neighbourhood, watching for some one we want. Well, this morning there came an urgent message
to the Yard from the Admiralty, to ask for a responsible official at once, and I was sent.
As I came along I saw Corder lounging about, and of course I took no notice--it would not do
for us people from the Yard to recognise each other too readily in the street. But Corder came
up, and made pretence to ask me for a match to light his pipe; and under cover of that he told
me that he had seen Mayes not an hour before, coming out of the Admiralty. At this, of course,
I pricked up my ears. I didn't know what they wanted me for, but if there was mischief, and
that fellow had been there, it was likely at least that he might have been in it. Corder was
quite positive that it was the man, although he had only seen him for a moment in the lift.
He hadn't seen him go into the Admiralty office, but he was passing as he came out, and noted
the time exactly, so that he might report to me at the first opportunity. The time was 11.32,
and Mayes jumped into a hansom and drove off. He walked right out into the middle of the road
to stop the hansom--you know how wide the road is there--so that Corder couldn't hear his direction
to the cabman, but he took the number as the cab went off. Corder ought to have collared him
then and there, I think, but he was in a difficult position. It would have endangered the case
he was on, which is very important; and besides, he didn't realise how much we wanted him for,
having only been brought in as an assistant at the tail of our bond case. Still less did he
guess--any more than myself--what I was going to hear at the Admiralty office."

"At any rate," interrupted Hewitt, "you've got the number of the cab?"

"Here it is," Plummer answered, "and I've already set a man to get hold of the cabman. You'd
better note the number--92,873."

Hewitt duly noted the number, and advised me to do the same, in case I should chance to meet
the cab during the afternoon; and as we neared our destination Plummer gave us the rest of
the case in outline.

"In the office," he said, "I found them in a great state. A copy of the code, or cypher, in
which confidential orders and other messages are sent to the fleet all over the world, and
in which reports and messages are sent back, had disappeared during the morning. It was in
charge of a Mr. Robert Telfer, a clerk of responsibility and undoubted integrity. He kept it
in a small iron safe, which is let into the wall of his private room. It was safe when he arrived
in the morning, and he immediately used it in order to code a telegram, and locked it in the
safe again at 10.20. Two hours later, at 12.20, he went to the safe for it again, in order
to de-code a message just received, and it was gone! And the lock of the safe is one that would
take hours to pick, I should judge. There isn't a shade of a clue, so far as I can see, except
this circumstance of Mayes being seen leaving by Corder--just between Telfer's two visits to
the safe, you perceive. And of course there may be nothing in that, except for the character
of the man. And that's all there is to go on, as far as I can see. I needn't tell you how important
the thing is at a time like this, and how much would be paid for that secret code by a certain
foreign Government. We have made hurried arrangements to have certain places watched, and as
soon as I have taken you to the office I must rush off and make a few more arrangements still.
But here we are."

Mr. Robert Telfer's room was at the side of a long and gloomy corridor on the upper floor,
and the door was distinguished merely by a number and the word "Private" painted thereon. We
found Mr. Telfer sitting alone, and plainly in a state of great nervous tension. He was a man
of forty or thereabout, thin, alert, and using a single eye-glass. Plummer introduced us by
name, and rapidly explained our business.

"I told you the name of the party I am after, Mr. Telfer," Plummer said, "and I went straight
to Mr. Martin Hewitt, as being most likely to have information of him. Mr. Hewitt, whose name
you know already, of course, is kind enough, seeing we're in a bad pinch, and pushed for time,
to come in and give us all the help he can. Both he and his friend, Mr. Brett, know a good
deal of the doings of the person we're after, and their assistance is likely to be of the very
greatest value. Do you mind giving Mr. Hewitt any information he may ask? I must rush over
to the Yard to put some other inquiries on foot, and to set an observation or two, but I'll
be back presently."

"Certainly," Mr. Telfer answered, "I'm only too anxious to give any information whatever--so
long as it is nothing departmentally forbidden--which will help to put this horrible matter
right. Please ask me anything, and be patient if my answers are not very clear. I have been
much overworked lately, as you may imagine, and have had very little sleep; and now this terrible
misfortune has upset me completely; for, of course, I am held responsible for that copy of
the code, and if it isn't recovered, and quickly, I am ruined--to say nothing, of course, of
the far more serious consequences in other directions."

"That is the safe in which it was kept, I presume?" Hewitt said, indicating a small one let
into the wall. "May I examine it?"

"Certainly." Mr. Telfer turned and produced the keys from his pocket. "The code was here, lying
on this shelf when I needed it this morning at ten. I took it out, used it, returned it to
the same place exactly, and locked the safe door. Then I took the draft of the telegram, together
with the copy in cypher, into the Controller's room, gave it into safe hands, and returned here."

Hewitt narrowly examined the lock of the safe with his pocket lens. "There are no signs of
the lock having been picked," he said, "even if that were possible. As a matter of fact, this
is a lock that would take half a day to pick, even with a heavy bag of tools. No, I don't think
that was the way of it. You have no doubt about locking the safe door at 10.20, I suppose,
before you went to the Controller's room?"

"No possible doubt whatever. You see, I left the whole bunch of keys hanging in the lock while
I coded the telegram. It was a short one, and was soon done. Then I returned the code to its
place, locked the safe, and then used another key on the bunch to lock a drawer in this desk.
I had no occasion to go to the safe again till about 12.20, when the Controller's secretary
came here with a telegram to be de-coded. The safe was still locked then, but when it was opened
the code was gone."

"You had had no occasion to go to the safe in the meantime?"

"None at all. I locked it at 10.20, and I unlocked it two hours later, and that was all."

"You were not in the room the whole of the time, of course?"

"Oh, no. I have told you that at 10.20 I went to the Controller's room, and after that I went
out two or three times on one occasion or another. But each time I locked the door of the room."

"Oh, you did? That is important. And you took all your keys with you, I presume?"

"Yes, all. The keys on the bunch I took in my pocket, of course, and the room door key I also
took. There are one or two rather important papers on my desk, you see, and anybody from the
corridor might come in if the door were left unlocked."

"The lock of the door would be a good deal easier to pick than that of the safe," Hewitt observed,
after examining it. "But that would be of no great use with the safe locked. Shortly, then,
the facts are these. You locked the code safely away at 10.20, you left the room two or three
times, but each time the door, as well as the safe, was locked, and the keys in your pocket;
and then, at 12.20, or two hours exactly after the code had been put safely away, you opened
the safe again in presence of the Controller's secretary, and the code had vanished. That is
the whole matter in brief, I take it?"

"Precisely." Mr. Telfer was pallid and bewildered. "It seems a total impossibility," he said;
"a total, absolute, physical impossibility; but there it is."

"But as no such thing as a physical impossibility ever happens," Hewitt replied calmly, "we
must look further. Now, are there any other ways into this room than by that door into the
corridor? I see another door here. What is that?"

"That door has been locked for ages. The room on the other side is one like this, with a door
in the corridor; it is used chiefly to store old documents of no great importance, and I believe
that whole stacks of them, in bundles, are piled against the other side of that same door.
We will send for the key and see, if you like."

The key was sent for, and the door from the corridor opened. As Telfer had led us to expect,
the place was full of old papers in bundles and parcels, thick with ancient dust, and these
things were piled high against the door next his room, and plainly had not been disturbed for
months, or even years.

"There remains the skylight," said Hewitt, "for I perceive, Mr. Telfer, that your room is lighted
from above, and has no window; while the grate is a register. There seems to be no opening
in that skylight but the revolving ventilator. Am I right?"

"Quite so. There is no getting in by the skylight without breaking it, and, as you see, it
has not been broken. Certainly there are men on the roof repairing the leads, but it is plain
enough that nobody has come that way. The thing is wholly inexplicable."

"At present, yes," Hewitt said, musingly. He stood for a few moments in deep thought.

"Plummer is longer away than I expected," he said presently. "By the way, what was the external
appearance of the missing code?" 

Lord D' ABERNON delivered an erudite discourse, from which I gathered that it was at present
about ten shillings and still shrinking. Questioned further he admitted that he had only actually
seen one and that in the dark. The next thing was a single wounded
lancer who happened in about four in the morning with the glad tidings
that any Bosch tanks were advancing on us".

Mr. G. ROBERTS furnished an interesting analysis of the nine shillings
now charged for a bottle of whisky."

It wasn' t any manner of use assuring him that there wasn' t a steam tank on anybody' s front. Wednesday,
March 26th.-- After Lord DESBOROUGH' S vivacious attack upon the
Cippenham Motor Depot, it is doubtful whether anyone could have enabled
the Government to wriggle out of the demand for an independent inquiry.

There' s a family of fairies lives inside our pigeon- cot-- Oh, the
bustle and the" sweeping there has been!"

The Divisional General was properly mystified."

Light was breaking fast, but there were wisps and shreds of fog blowing about which made observation
exceedingly difficult.

You' re an old horse- soldier, I believe?

The idea of presenting Mr. CHAMBERLAIN with a box for The Purse Strings, in the hope that it
would convert him, has unfortunately been frustrated by the withdrawal of the play. Our people
had the edge of the village manned with every rifle they could collect.

We have got a situation."' It' s coming,' he called.

He was supported by Lord LAMBOURNE been charged for the extra water,
but no doubt this will be remedied in the next Budget. that it was
impossible for the Government to do anything to reduce the high prices
now being charged for furniture in the East End."' It' s an armoured
car.

Suddenly one of my patrol shrilled,' There y' are, Sir!' and I saw a monstrous shape loom for
a moment through a thinning of mist, and rock onwards into obscurity
again.

Is it true that he flies every day from Paris to Mentone, to receive
instructions from a Mysterious Nobleman who is shortly to be raised
to ducal honours?' More like a blasted Dreadnought,' grunted another.

My wife burst into the room, her face aglow with the joy of success.
When rather more than half of Europe was seething with unrest, which
might require military intervention, it would be fatal to let our
army disappear; yet the right hon. gentleman seemed to think that
everyone ought to be disarmed except LENIN and TROTSKY."

Then the mists rolled up and revealed what I at first took to be a walking
R. E. dump, but secondly discovered to be a common ordinary domestic
British steam- roller with' LINCOLN URBAN DISTRICT COUNCIL' in dirty
white lettering upon its fuel box, a mountain of duck- boards stacked
on the cab roof, railway sleepers, riveting stakes and odds and ends
of lumber tied on all over it.

Nor could the Government take any direct steps to ameliorate the overcrowding on the Underground
railways.'' Ello,' it said,' seen anythin' o' the lads?'" I was too dumbfounded to say anything
excepting that the lads were in the next village waiting for him.

The Ministry are evidently unwilling to stake their political lives
on Mr. CHURCHILL' S approval of the project, for Mr. BONAR LAW announced
that the Government Whips would not be put on for the forthcoming
division on the subject.*****"' Eh, what?' queried Lawrence in astonishment."'
Oh, ah reckon we' re just keepin' ahead of' em."

Tablemaid( thoroughly experienced) required middle of March; god wages."-- Scots Paper. When,
moved a few brief seasons back, To brave the battle' s brunt, On Britain' s shores I turned
my pack And" somewhere" found a Front; Said I; as my tympanum I heard
the cannon' s roar,"' Twill be a wonder if I come Impervious through
the War."

PATLANDER.
Sir DONALD MACLEAN and others served up a rather insipid réchauffé
of Lord DESBOROUGH' S indictment, and Mr. CHURCHILL repeated Lord
INVERFORTH' S defence, but put a little more ginger into it.( New
Style).' Cheer- o, chaps, the, as was perhaps intended, left Free
Traders' Un fleet' as come out.' But nobody laughed or felt like laughing;
this mysterious monster, thundering westward wrapped in its barrage
of fog, was getting on our nerves."

In the old days, you know, we used to sit in a small room and interview the servants she wanted places
for." Absolutely top- hole, I am sure, my dear; but supposing you let me know what it' s all
about?" I determined to be firm and told her she could go when she liked, and then I marched
straight off to Mrs. Smith' s Registry Office. You had not been gone five minutes when Jane
came up and gave notice." I quite forgot I had not seen you all day, and it happened just after
you left for the office." How silly I am," she murmured as she sank
into a chair.

I found the dear old thing just as amiable and ready to please as ever, but she told me I must
not mind if the methods of her establishment were a bit changed."

Oh, George, isn' t it simply splendid?" Three- and- sixpence represents the cost of the spirit
plus pre- war taxation. I was told to go in and see a nice- looking girl. There' s a family
of fairies lives inside our pigeon- cot, And there' s cooings round
about our chimney- stack, For the pigeons are all sitting there and
talking such a lot And there' s nothing Gard' ner does will drive
them back;"

Why, they' ll choke up those roof- gutters if they start this nesting
fuss; They' ve got a house," he says," so I don' t see--"

But at the sight of civil life, If" life" it can be called, With all its agonising strife,
I simply stand appalled. She snapped me up at once and said she must have at least four, as well
as the whole of every other Sunday.

We believe they are, and if they are the sooner they are told what
is said about their intentions the better."

If you will wait a minute I will have another talk to Mrs. Smith
about you,' and off she' rumbled off down the highway towards Albert,
rearguard of His Britannic Majesty' s Armies in the Field."

The only comfort is that at that rate the National Debt has already been
halved. I said that two a week and every other Sunday was my usual
custom, and that I hoped this would prove agreeable.

And"

Oh!" in utter fear I cry," How horrors never cease;' Twill be a miracle
if I Ever survive the Peace."

Then there is Mr. BONAR LAW.

Monday, March 24th.-- The Archbishop of CANTERBURY sought from the
Government a clear statement of policy regarding the repatriation
of enemy aliens, and incidentally paid a high tribute to the British
Press, which, we were glad to hear, contains" nobody who desires to
fabricate baseless statements.""

A quarter of a mile further on I could hear the roaring and rumbling
myself without lying on the road.

     Lord JERSEY,
     
for the Government, desired to treat even Germans justly, but could
not see why anyone should wish in these times to increase our alien
population.

Tuesday, March 25th.-- The Lords spent three hours of almost unrelieved
gloom in discussing the financial condition of the country.

Still, observation I was out to get, so, spreading my bobbery pack,
I worked closer and closer.

His
own experience as a Cabinet- maker has been entirely confined to
the West End.

As I rode up an elderly head, grimy and perspiring, was thrust between
a couple of duck- boards and nodded pleasantly to me.

But, as it was stated that large quantities of leather are still being purchased on Government
account, there are hopes that more accommodation for strap- hangers may shortly be available. His
speech did not please a batch of noble sentimentalists, drawn from both sides, but seemed to
give great satisfaction to Lord LINCOLNSHIRE, who quoted with approval the brave words on the subject
uttered by the LORD CHANCELLOR at the General Election, before his style had been mollified
by the Woolsack. On that old problem of the economists," What is a pound?" Anyway, in this village
I found a Divisional H. Q., four Brigade H. Q.' s, and oddities of all sorts sitting one on
top of t' other waiting for the next thing to happen. Yet bomb,
shell, bullet and grenade Made no great hit with me; And now I' m--
well, I' ve just been paid My war gratuity.

Let him therefore disclaim the intention promptly and publicly.
Mr. CHURCHILL came down heavily upon Sir DONALD MACLEAN' S attempt
to delay the adoption of compulsion in the new Military Service Bill.

The Horse- master paused and carefully removed the long ash from his cigar. For the first time
since 1914 private Members had an evening to themselves. Incidentally he mentioned that a prolonged
search for the nonagenarian pensioner had produced nobody more venerable
than a comparative youngster of sixty- five.

No, he doesn' t know the secret, and there' s no one does but-- us,
All the pigeons, and the fairy- folk and ME! As to the Government'
s fiscal policy generally it had already been outlined in the PRIME MINISTER'
S letter to himself, and would be definitely declared as soon as the
time was ripe-- a cautious statement which and Protectionists still
guessing.

He said there was, and we couldn' t move him. Probably such an idea
never entered his head.

The
innumerable type- written sheets which he read out laboriously may have contained a complete
reply to Lord DESBOROUGH' S main allegations, even if they included
no refutation of the stones of the bricks imported the hundred thousand
into a district containing some of the best brick- earth in the country,
or of the four pounds a week paid for the services of a railway pensioner
aged ninety- two.********** WHAT EVERY MINISTER SHOULD KNOW.

The Times is much concerned with the chaotic condition of the Air
Ministry and the strange designs with which the political heads of
the Department are credited."' Ah' m right glad o' that,' said he;'
been feeling a bit lonesome- like these last two days;' adding, in
case I might not appreciate the situation,' These yer Germans' ave
been after me, you know, Sir.'"

I replied that my only wonder was that they had not captured him
long since.

But it was the great- grandfather of all tanks, according to the
chap; it stood in particular," if he has no such intentions, to disclaim
them publicly and in a way which will leave no breeding- ground for
future twenty foot high; it' roared and rumbled' in its career, and
it careered by steam.

But now the position is reversed, and the servants interview you and
ask you questions.

The
other five- and- sixpence is made up of interest to manufacturers,
insurance and rent; increased price of bottles and corks; margins
of profit to blenders and bottlers, merchants and other traders; and
increase of taxation.

Is it really true that he has decided, as the brain of the Empire can only be located in Printing
House Square, to resign office and become home editor of The Times,
leaving foreign policy to be controlled by Mr. WICKHAM STEED?

Thursday, March 27th.-- To those who remember the debates on the Parliament Act, circa 1911, it was
amusing to hear Lords CREWE and BUCKMASTER complaining of the unceremonious
manner in which the Lords' amendments to the Rents Bill had been treated
in" another place;" and being entreated not to pick a quarrel with
the Commons by those ancient champions of the Upper Chamber, Lord
CURZON and the LORD CHANCELLOR.

The Times has done a great service by its splendid candour, but it has only gone about one- fortieth
part of the way.

Several Members complained that there is only one woman among them,
and that, pending their report( expected some time next year), the
glaring anomaly by which husband and wife are regarded for taxable
purposes as a single entity is apparently to be continued.

Well, jump on your gee and go scout the thing, will you?'"

I scratched together a rag and bobtail patrol of grooms and pushed
off just before daybreak.

Mr. BONAR LAW' S determination to leave the Cippenham question to
the free judgment of the House led( as possibly he anticipated) to
its expressing no judgment at all.*************** MISTRESS AND MAID.
They utilised it in endeavouring to obtain from the Government a direct
statement of its future fiscal policy.

The papers simply teem with secret histories of the week, diaries of omniscient pundits and so
forth, in which these rumours multiply to an extent that staggers the plain person.** sparks
and smoke.' Then he crumpled slowly on the floor, fast asleep. For
the pigeons didn' t scrub their house( I think they all forgot),
And the fairies like their home so scrup' lous clean; There are fairy
dusters hanging from the sumach as you pass; Tiny drops are dripping
still from overhead; Broken fairy- brooms are lying near the fir-
tree on the grass, Though the fairies went an hour ago to bed.

She was not a bit shy and, after asking me to take a chair, began to put questions-- our income?
your profession? what other servants we kept? wages? margarine or butter in the kitchen? etc."
She seemed quite satisfied with everything until we came to the matter of her afternoons out.
On Imperial Preference Mr. BONAR LAW was quite explicit; the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER was already
considering how to incorporate it in the next Budget. But as hardly anyone
could hear the recital it created little impression."

These suspicions we believe to be without any real foundation, but they are
active, though Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL and General SEELY may be wholly
unconscious of them."

My heart sank, because I did not see how we could possibly give her
all that, so I just said how sorry I was and got up to go-- in fact
I was half- way to the door-- when she called me back and said,' I
like your face, and perhaps for the present two afternoons and the
Sunday will be enough.

So The Times proceeds to describe these nefarious if nebulous designs and appeals
to Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL rumours."

The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER announced the names of the Royal Commissioners who are to consider
how the income- tax can be improved.

There are still, we believe, some eighty Ministers, and all without exception ought to know what is being
said about them, to enable them to confirm or disavow these disquieting speculations. Deprived of this prop
the Opposition felt unequal to walking through the Lobbies. Take Is it true that he meditates appointing
Mr. AUGUSTUS JOHN Minister of Fine Arts? I seed wheels under it,'
gasped one groom.

Is it true that until quite recently he had never heard of JOAN OF
ARC and thought that VICTOR HUGO was a Roman emperor?********** ESSENCE OF
PARLIAMENT. He surely ought to know that it is said by The Job and
The*** THE FAIRIES' FLITTING.

But very great men do not always confide in brothers."' I saw steam coming from it in clouds,' be mumbled,'
and Morning Ghost that he informed Mr. SMILLIE, during one of their recent conversations, that he
hoped, in the event of a general strike, to be allowed to get away
to the small island in the South Pacific which he has purchased as a
refuge in case of such a contingency.

At any rate Lord INVERFORTH was insufficiently agile. But this is what he is supposed to be
planning. Lord MILNER made a fairly cheerful speech in the circumstances; but I hope that potential
strikers will not take too literally his observation that the one thing
most needed at the present moment was" economy of national energy."
Grievous mischief again is being done by the persistent rumours current
about the intention of the LORD CHANCELLOR to take Orders with the
view of becoming Archbishop of Canterbury at the earliest possible
opportunity.

It is always well to know the worst, even about politicians. Lastly, is it true that, although Mr.
went. And if they do, and basely pretend not to, we feel that we have done a truly patriotic service in
rendering it impossible for them to avoid enlightening the public.
You and I have been approved of.

A subaltern lying ear to earth hailed me as I passed.*****" OUT OF THE FRYING- PAN--" Good day to
you, Sir.'" He wrenched at a lever and' t' owd lass AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN is still nominally Chancellor
of the Exchequer, he is really a prisoner in the Tower, conveyed under guard to and from the House,
and that the reprieve of the sentence of capital punishment passed on him by The Daily Mail may expire-- and
he with it-- at any moment? There' s a family of fairies lives inside our pigeon- cot the Advisory
Committee knows all about aliens, and declared that" Repatriate them all" was a foolish cry,
if it meant that we were expected to present Germany with the British wives and children of
the dear deported."', who as a member of single field- gun or even
some gelignite,' he groaned; then turning to me,' I must get the strength
of this; it may be some new frightfulness the Hun is springing.

In the Commons Mr. BONAR LAW regretfully explained the PREMIER to
begin with.

By some oversight nothing appears to have If only I had a, Down the garden, near the great
big sumach- tree, Where the grass has grown across the path and dead leaves lie and rot And no one
hardly ever goes but me; Yes, it' s just the place for fairies, and
they told the pigeons so; They begged to be allowed to move in soon;
It' s a most tremendous honour, as of course the pigeons know; It
was all arranged this very afternoon.

NAPOLEON, as we know, thought poorly of his. Mr. HAROLD SMITH scouts the notion as absurd. These
are only a few of things which are said about them that Ministers ought to know-- if they
don' t know them already." It seemed ages before anyone came, and then old Mrs. Smith walked in,
saying,' I' m glad to tell you, Madam, that you have been approved of.'"
Isn' t it too glorious, George?

There may be absolutely nothing in it.***** WANTED, A HEBE. Well, best be gettin' along now,
s' pose."' Very nearly did once or twice,' he admitted, and wagged
his elderly head;' but t' owd lass is a great one to travel when she'
s sweet, an' ah' ve' ad a lot o' luck pickin' oop these bits o' firin'
along the road;' and he jammed a bunch of riveting stakes into the
furnace.' What are you doing here, my dear?

 Could it be possible
that this man had anything to tell about Mayes? It was scarcely likely, and I made up my mind
that Plummer was merely being detained by some tale of a petty local crime.

But in a few minutes he returned with news of import. "This fellow is most valuable," he said.
"He knows a lot about Mayes, whom, of course, he calls by another name; but the identity's
certain. He saw me looking in at No. 8, he says, and guessed I must be after him. He seems
to have wondered at Mayes's mysterious movements for a long time, and so kept his eye on him
and made inquiries. It seems that Mayes sometimes uses a back way, through the window you saw
on the opposite side of the little area, by way of that ladder you mentioned. It's quite plain
this fellow knows something, from the particulars about that ladder. He wants half a sovereign
to show me the way through a stable passage behind and point out where our man can be trapped
to a certainty. It'll be a cheap ten shillingsworth, and we mustn't waste time. If Hewitt comes,
tell him not to move till I come back or send a message, which I can easily do by this chap
I'm going with. And be sure to keep your eye on the front door of No. 8 while I'm gone."

The thing had begun to grow exciting, and the fascination of the pursuit took full possession
of my imagination. I saw Plummer pass across the end of the street in company with a shuffling,
out-at-elbows-looking man with dirty brown whiskers, and I set myself to watch the door of
the staircase by the packing-case maker's with redoubled attention, hoping fervently that Mayes
might emerge, and so give me the opportunity of capping the extraordinary series of occurrences
connected with the Red Triangle by myself seizing and handing him over to the police.

So I waited and watched for something near another quarter of an hour. Then there came another
thump at the door, and once more I beheld Mr. Moon.

"Man askin' for you in the bar, sir," he said.

"Asking for me?" I asked, a little astonished. "By name?"

"Mr. Brett, 'e said, sir. He's the same chap, you know. He's got a message from Inspector Plummer,
'e says."

"May he come up here?" I asked, mindful of maintaining my watch.

"Certainly, sir, if you like. I'll bring him."

Presently the shuffling man with the dirty whiskers presented himself. He was a shifty, villainous-looking
fellow of middle height, looking a "nark" all over. He pulled off his cap and delivered his
message in a rum-scented whisper. "Inspector Plummer says the front way don't matter now,"
he said. "'E can cop 'im fair the other way if you'll go round to him at once. If Mr. Martin
Hewitt's here 'e'd rather 'ave 'im, but on'y one's to come now."

Naturally, I thought, Plummer would prefer Hewitt; but in this case I should for once be ahead
of my friend, and have the pleasure of relating the circumstances of the capture to him, instead
of listening, as usual, to his own quiet explanations of the manner in which the case had been
brought to a successful issue. So I took my hat and went.

"Best let me go in front," whispered the "nark." "You bein' a toff might be noticed." It was
a reasonable precaution, and I followed him accordingly.

We went a little way down Barbican, and presently, taking a very narrow turning, plunged into
a cluster of alleys, through which, however, I could plainly perceive that our way lay in the
direction of the back of the house in Norbury Row. At length my guide stopped at what seemed
a stable yard, pushed open a wicket gate, and went in, keeping the gate open for me to follow.

It was, indeed, a stable yard, littered with much straw, which the "nark" carefully picked
to walk on as noiselessly as possible, motioning me to do the same. It was a small enough yard,
and dark, and when my guide very carefully opened the door of a stable I saw that that was
darker still.

He pushed the door wide so as to let a little light fall on another door which I now perceived
in the brick wall which formed the side of the stable. After listening intently for a moment
at this door, the guide stepped back and favoured me with another puff of rum and a whisper.
"There's no light in that there passage," he said, "an' we'd better not strike one. I'll catch
hold of your hand."

He pulled the stable door to, and took me by the hand. I heard the inner door open quietly,
and we stepped cautiously forward. We had gone some five or six yards in the darkness when
I felt something cold touch the wrist of the hand by which I was being led. There was a loud
click, my hand was dropped, and I felt my wrist held fast, while I could hear my late guide
shuffling away in the darkness.

I could not guess whether to cry out or remain quiet. I called after the man in a loud whisper,
but got no answer. I used my other hand to feel at my right wrist, and found that it was clipped
in one of a pair of handcuffs, the other being locked in a staple in the wall. I tugged my
hardest to loosen this staple, but it held firm. The thing had been so sudden and stealthy
that I scarce had time to realise that I was in serious danger, and that, doubtless, Plummer
had preceded me, when a light appeared at an angle ahead. It turned the corner, and I perceived,
coming toward me, carrying a lamp, the pale man of the eyes, whom I had encountered not an
hour before--in a word, Mayes.

His eyes searched me still, but he approached me with a curiously polite smile.

"No, Mr. Brett," he said, "my name is not Richardson, and I am not a bookbinder. Not that I
am particular about such a thing as a name, for you have heard of me under more than one already,
and you are quite at liberty to call me Richardson if you like. I am sorry to have to talk
to you in this uncomfortable place, but the circumstances are exceptional. But, at least, I
should give you a chair."

He stepped back a little way and pressed a bell-button. Presently the fellow who had decoyed
me there appeared, and Mayes ordered him to bring me a chair at once, which he did, with stolid
obedience. I sat in it, so that my wrist rested at somewhere near the level of my shoulder.

"Mr. Brett," Mayes pursued, when his man was gone, "I am not so implacable a person as you
perhaps believe me; in fact, I can assure you that my disposition is most friendly."

"Then unfasten this handcuff," I said.

"I am sorry that that is a little precaution I find it necessary to take till we understand
each other better. I am glad to see you, Mr. Brett, though I am sure you will not think me
rude if I say that I should have preferred Mr. Martin Hewitt in your place. But perhaps his
turn will come later. I have a proposition to make, Mr. Brett. I should like you to join me."

"To join you?"

"Exactly." He nodded pleasantly. "You needn't shrink; I shan't ask you to do anything vulgar,
or even anything that, with your present prejudices, you might consider actively criminal.
You can help me, you see, in your own profession as a journalist; and in other ways. And my
enterprise is greater than you may imagine. Join me, and you shall be a great man in an entirely
new sphere. A small matter of initiation is necessary, and that is all. You have only to consent
to that."

I said nothing.

"You seem reluctant. Well, perhaps it is natural, in your present ignorance. This is no vulgar
criminal organisation that I have, understand. I have taken certain measures to provide myself
with the necessary tools in the shape of money, and so forth, but my aims are larger than you
suspect--perhaps larger than you can understand. And I work with a means more wonderful than
you have experience of. For instance, here is to-day's work. You know about the lost Naval
Code, of course--it is what you came about. That document is now lying in the desk you stood
by in the room where we spoke of paste grain book covers and the like. It was there then at
your elbow. It will be sold for many thousands of pounds by to-morrow, and all the puny watchings
and dodgings that have been devised cannot prevent it. The money will go to aid me in the attainment
of the power of which you may have a part, if you wish. The means of attaining this I scruple
no more about than you did to-day about the story of the bookbindings." He bowed with a slight
smile and went on.

"Come now, Mr. Brett, put aside your bourgeois prejudices and join me. Your friend Plummer
is coming gladly, I feel sure, and he will be useful, too. And from what I have seen from Mr.
Martin Hewitt, I have no doubt I can make it right with him. If I can't it will be very bad
for him, I can assure you; you have heard and seen something of my powers, and I need say no
more. But Hewitt is a man of sense, and will come in, of course, and you had better come with
your friends. I want one or two superior men. Mason--you know about Jacob Mason, of course--Mason
was a fool, and he was lost--inevitably. The others"--he made a gesture of contempt--"they
are mere vulgar tools. They will have their rewards if they are faithful, of course; if not--well,
you remember Denson in the Samuel diamond business? He was not faithful, and there was an end
of him. I may tell you that Denson was made an example, for one was needed. I assigned him
a certain operation, and, having brought it to success, he endeavoured to embezzle--did embezzle--the
proceeds. He was made a conspicuous example, in a most conspicuous public place, to impress
the others. They didn't know him, but they knew well enough what the Red Triangle meant! Ah,
my excellent recruit--for so I count you already--there is more in that little sign than you
can imagine! It is more than a sign--it is an implement of very potent power; and you shall
learn its whole secret in that little form of initiation I spoke of. See now, a present example.
Telfer, the Admiralty clerk, gave up that document at my mere spoken word. He will deny it
to his dying day, and he will be ruined for the act; but he gave me the paper himself, at my
mere order. If he were one of my own--if he had passed through the initiation I offer you,
I would have protected him; as it is, he must take his punishment, and though it is only I
who will benefit, he will still deny the fact! Ha! Mr. Brett, do you begin to perceive that
I do not boast when I tell of powers beyond your understanding?"

Truly I was amazed, though I could not half understand. The circumstances of the loss of the
Admiralty code had been so inexplicable, and now these incredible suggestions of the prime
actor in the matter were more mysterious still.

"Ha! you are amazed," he went on, "but if you will come further into my counsels I will amaze
you more. What are you now? A drudge of a journalist, and if ever you make a thousand a year
to feed yourself with you will be lucky. Come to me and you shall be a man of power. There
is a place beyond the sea where I may be king, and you a viceroy. Don't think I am raving!
It is true enough that I am an enthusiast, but I have power, power to do anything I please,
I tell you! What are the greatest powers among men on this earth? Some will say the pen, or
the sword, or love, or what not. Men of the world will say, money and lies; and they will be
very nearly right. Money and lies will move continents, but I have one greater power still--the
very apex of the triangle! That power I revealed to Jacob Mason. He thought to betray it, and
it killed him. That power I will reveal to you, if you will accept the alternative I offer."

"The alternative?"

"Yes, the alternative, for an alternative it is, of course. If you will go through the form
of initiation, I shall keep you here a little till I can trust you--which will be very soon.
But if not--well, Mr. Brett, I wish to be as friendly as you please, but having been at the
trouble of catching you, and having got you here safely, you who know so much now, you who
could be so dangerous if you ever got away--eh? Well, you know my methods, and you have seen
them exemplified, and you will understand."

There was no anger in his voice as he uttered this threat, nor even, I thought, in his eyes.
But what there was was worse.

"But I'm sure you will not make things unpleasant," he concluded. "You will go through the
little form I have arranged, if only for curiosity. Just think over it for a moment, while
I go to close my little office."

He took the lamp and turned away, but as he reached the angle of the passage, there came a
sound that checked his steps. I could hear a noise of feet and hurried voices, and then suddenly
arose a shout in a voice which seemed to be Plummer's. "Here!" it cried. "Help! This way, Hewitt!
Brett!"

I shouted back at the top of my voice, wondering where Plummer was, and what it might all mean.
And with that Mayes turned, and I saw that he was about to make for the door I had entered
by. I resolved he should not pass me if I could prevent it, and I sprang up and seized my chair
in my left hand, shouting aloud for help as I did so.

Mayes came with a bound, and flung his lighted lamp full at my head. It struck the chair and
smashed to a thousand pieces, and in that instant of time Mayes was on me. Plainly he had no
weapon, or he would have used it; but I was at disadvantage enough, with my right wrist chained
to the wall. I clung with all my might, and endeavoured to swing my enemy round against the
wall in order that I might clasp my hands about him, and I shouted my loudest as I did it.
But the chair and the broken glass hampered me, and Mayes was desperate. The agony in my right
wrist was unbearable, and just as I was conscious of a rush of approaching feet a heavy blow
took me full in the face, and I felt Mayes rush over me while I fell and hung from the wrist.

I had a stunned sense of lights and voices and general confusion, and then I remembered nothing.

III

I came to myself on the floor of a lighted room, with Hewitt's face over mine. My wrist seemed
broken, though it was free, there was oil and blood on my clothes, and in my left hand I still
gripped a piece of Mayes's coat.

"Stop him!" I cried. "He's gone by the stable! Have they got him?"

"No good, Brett," Hewitt answered soberly. "You did your best, but he's gone, and Peytral after
him!"

"Peytral?"

"Yes. He brought his own message to town. But see if you can stand up."

I was well enough able to do that, and, indeed, I had only fainted from the pain of the strain
on my wrist. Several policemen were in the room, beside Hewitt and Plummer. Mayes's stronghold
was in the hands of his enemies.

Then I suddenly remembered.

"The Admiralty code!" I cried. "It was in the office desk. Have you got it?"

"No," Hewitt answered. "Come, Plummer, up the ladder!"

Little time was lost in forcing Mayes's desk, and there the document was found, grey cover,
red tape and all intact. The police were left to make a vigorous search for any possible copy,
and the original was handed to Plummer, as chief representative of the law present. He had
been trapped precisely as I had been, except that he had been led further, and shut in a cellar
as well as fastened by the wrist. Mayes, it seemed, had wasted very little time in attempting
to pervert him, and I have no doubt that, whatever fate might have been reserved for me, Plummer
would never have left the place alive had it not been for the timely irruption of Hewitt, with
Peytral and the police.

In half an hour Peytral returned. He had dashed out in chase of the fugitive, but failed even
to see him--lost him wholly in the courts, in fact. For some little while he persevered, but
found it useless.

The dirty-whiskered man made no attempt to escape, though there was talk of another man having
got away in the confusion by way of the stable roof. The police were left in charge of the
place, and we deferred a complete exploration till the next day.

Hewitt's tale was simple enough. He had endued himself in somewhat seedy clothes, and had visited
37 Raven Street, Blackfriars, which he found to be merely a tenement house. It took some time
to make inquiries there, with the necessary caution, because of the number of lodgers; and
then the inquiries led to nothing. It was an experience common enough in his practice, but
none the less an annoying delay, and when he returned to his office he found Mr. Peytral already
awaiting him. Peytral described his following of Mayes at much greater length and detail than
before, and he and Hewitt had come on to Norbury Row at once and asked news of Mr. Moon.

Mr. Moon's description of the successive disappearances of Plummer and myself, and of our continued
absence, so aroused Hewitt's suspicions that he instantly procured help from the nearest station,
and approached the door of Mayes's office. A knock being unanswered, the door was instantly
broken in. The room was found to be unoccupied, but the ladder was still standing at the open
window, by which Mayes had descended to the back premises. Down this ladder Hewitt went, with
the police after him. The rest I had seen myself.

"But what," I said, "what is this mystery? Why did Telfer give up the code, and what is the
power that Mayes talks of?"

"It is a power," replied Hewitt, "that I have suspected for some time, and now I am quite sure
of it. A secret, dangerous and terrible power which I have encountered before, though never
before have I known its possibilities carried so far. It is hypnotism!"

"Hypnotism!" I exclaimed. "But can a person be hypnotised against his will?"

"In a sense, in most cases, he cannot. That is the explanation of Mayes's proposals to you
to go through a 'form of initiation.' If you had consented, the 'form' would have been a process
of hypnotism. Once or twice repeated, and you would have been wholly under his control, so
that if he willed it and forbade you, you could tell nothing of what he wished kept secret,
and you would have committed any crime he might suggest. Consider poor Jacob Mason! Remember
how he struggled to tell what he knew, oppressed by the horror of it, and how it all ended!
And remember Henning the clerk, Mayes's tool in that case of bond robbery! What has happened
to him? He committed suicide, as you know, immediately after Mayes had left him at the barn.
Brett, this power of hypnotism, a power for healing in the hands of a good man, may become
a terrible power for evil in the hands of a villain!"

"But Telfer, to-day? He seems to have known nothing of Mayes, and he was not one of his regular
creatures--Mayes himself told me so."

"About that I don't know. But I expect we shall find that he has been willingly hypnotised
at some time or another, perhaps more than once, by this same scoundrel Mayes. Possibly in
one of Mayes's appearances in respectable society, at an evening party, or the like. In a case
of that sort the hypnotist may impress a certain formula--a word, a name, or a number--on the
subject's mind, by the repetition of which, at any future time, that same subject may be instantly
hypnotised. So that, once having become hypnotised, on any innocent occasion, the subject is
in the power of the hypnotist, more or less, ever after. The hypnotist says: 'When I repeat
such and such a sentence or number to you in future, you will be hypnotised,' and hypnotised
the subject duly is, instantly. Supposing such a case in this matter of Mr. Telfer, it would
only be necessary for Mayes to meet him in the corridor, repeat his formula and command the
victim to bring out the paper he specified. This done he could similarly order him to forget
the whole transaction, and this the victim would do, infallibly."

It is only necessary to say here, parenthetically, that later inquiry proved the truth of Hewitt's
supposition. Twice or three times Mr. Telfer had been hypnotised in a friend's chambers, by
a plausible tall man whose acquaintance his host had made at some public scientific gathering.
And in the end it became possible to identify this man with Mayes.

Mr. Moon, of "The Compasses," was of great comfort to me that evening. My cuts and bruises
were washed in his house, and my inner man revived with his food and drink.

"Allus glad to oblige the p'lice," said Mr. Moon; "allus. 'Cos why? Ain't they the p'lice?
Very well then!"

THE ADVENTURE OF CHANNEL MARSH

I

Mayes's stronghold was taken, but Mayes had escaped us once again; the cage was in our hands,
but the bird had flown.

Martin Hewitt, however, had his plans, as he was soon to show. The recovery of the Admiralty
code was a good stroke, and was a satisfactory ending to an important case; but that, and even
the capture of the curious premises behind the Barbican, made but a halting-place in his pursuit
of Mayes, and as soon as I was in some degree recovered from my struggle, and the captured
place had been hastily searched, the chase was resumed without a moment's delay; and that adventure
was entered upon which saw the end of the Red Triangle and its unholy doings--which came terribly
near to seeing the end of Hewitt himself, in fact.

I have not described the den near the Barbican with any great particularity, but I have said
that the office, accessible from the open street, was only connected with the hidden premises
behind--premises, as was afterwards discovered, held under a separate tenancy--by an easily-shifted
ladder. It was in these hidden premises, approached by the maze of courts and the stable-yard,
that the main evidences of Mayes's way of life were observable. The passage where my wrist
had been locked to the wall, and the room or cellar in which Plummer had been confined, were
the only parts of the lower premises fitted for the detention of prisoners, with the exception
of one very low and wholly unlighted cellar, entered by a trapdoor and a very steep flight
of brick steps. This place smelt horribly faint and stagnant; but it produced on my mind, both
then and when I examined it later, an effect of horror and repulsion more than could be accounted
for by the smell alone. Of its history nothing was discovered, and perhaps the feeling (though
others experienced it as well as myself) was the effect of mere fancy; but I have never got
rid of a conviction that that black cellar, or rather pit--for it was very narrow--had been
the instrument of crimes never to be told.

There were one or two rooms sparely furnished--one as a bedroom, a larger room, with a long
table, a sofa, and several chairs; and in one of the smaller rooms was found a stove, ladles
and crucibles for the melting down of metals--gold or silver. It was in this same room also
that the table stood, in the drawers of which were found papers, letters and formulæ--things
giving more than a hint of the use to which Mayes had put his friendship with Mr. Jacob Mason,
for of every possible manner and detail in which science--more particularly the science of
chemistry--could aid in the commission of crime, there were notes in these same drawers.

But most of these things were observed in detail later. The thing that set us once more on
the trail of Mayes, that very night and that very hour, was found in the isolated office facing
the street. It was a cheque-book, quite full of unused cheques.

"This cheque-book," said Hewitt to Inspector Plummer and myself, "was in the drawer below that
in which we discovered the Admiralty code. The Eastern Consolidated is the bank, as you see--Upper
Holloway branch. Now we must follow this at once, before waiting to search any further. There
may be something more important as a clue, or there may not, but at any rate, while we are
looking for it we are losing time. This may bring us to him at once."

"You mean that he may have some address in Holloway," suggested Plummer, "and we may get it
from the bank?"

"There's that possibility, and another," Hewitt answered. "He has had to bolt without warning
or preparation, with nothing but the clothes he ran in--probably very little money. Money he
will want at once, and he would rather not wait till the morning to get it; if he can get it
at once it will mean thirteen or fourteen hours' start at least. More, he will know very well
that this place will be searched, that this cheque-book will be discovered soon enough, and
that consequently the bank will be watched. This is what he will do--what he is doing now,
very likely. He will knock up the resident manager of that bank and try to get a cheque cashed
to-night. I don't think that can be done; in which case he will probably try to make some arrangement
to have money sent him. Either way, we must be at the Upper Holloway branch of the Eastern
Consolidated Bank as soon as a hansom can get us there."

Thus it was settled, and Hewitt and Plummer went off at once, leaving Plummer's men, with the
City police, in charge of the raided premises; leaving some of them also to make inquiries
in the neighbourhood. Mr. Victor Peytral had shown himself anxious to accompany Hewitt and
Plummer, but had been dissuaded by Hewitt. I guessed that Hewitt feared that some hasty indiscretion
on the part of this terribly wronged man might endanger his plans. Peytral, however, seemed
tractable enough, and left immediately after them; he had business, he said, which he expected
would occupy him for a day or two, and when it was completed he would see us again.

As for myself I only remained long enough to ascertain that the police could find no trace
of the direction of Mayes's flight in the immediate neighbourhood. They had little to aid them.
He had gone without a hat, and his dress was in some degree disordered by his struggle with
me; but the latter defect he might easily have remedied in the courts as he ran, and they could
gather no tidings of a hatless man. So I took my way to my office, my wrist growing stiffer
and more painful as I went, so that I was not sorry to arrange for another member of the staff
to take my duty for the night, and to get to bed a few hours earlier than usual, after the
day's fatigue and excitement.

II

Going to bed uncommonly soon I woke correspondingly early in the morning; but I was no earlier
than Hewitt, who was at my door, in fact, ere my breakfast was well begun.

"Well," I asked eagerly, almost before my friend had entered, "have you got him at last?"

"Not yet," Hewitt answered. "But he did exactly as I had expected. Plummer and I knocked up
the bank manager, who lives over the premises at the Upper Holloway branch. He was a very decent
fellow--rather young for the post--but he was naturally a bit surprised, possibly irritated,
at being bothered by one and another after office hours. I showed him the cheque-book, and
asked him if it belonged to any customer of his.

"'Why, yes,' he said, examining the numbers, 'I remember this because it is the first of a
new series, and we issued it the day before yesterday to a new customer. Where did you get it?'

"'We are very anxious to see that customer,' I said. 'Has he been here this evening?'

"The manager seemed a trifle surprised, but answered readily enough. 'Yes,' he said, 'he was
here not an hour ago.'

"'Wanting to draw money?' I asked. But that the manager wouldn't tell me, of course. So that
it was necessary for Plummer to step in and reveal the facts that this was a police matter,
and that he was a detective-inspector. That made some difference. The manager told us that
our man had opened an account at the bank only two days before; and I'd like you to guess what
name he had opened it under."

"Not Myatt?" I said. "After the chase----"

"No, not Myatt."

"Catherton Hunt?"

"No, nor Catherton Hunt. He had opened it in the name of Mayes!"

"What! his actual name?"

"His actual original name, according to Peytral. The account was transferred, it would seem,
from another bank; and I have an idea we may find that he has been shifting his money about
from one bank to another as safety suggested, using his real name with it. You remember we
could find no trace of a banking account when the police raided and ransacked Calton Lodge
after Mason was killed? Quite probably he has had small current accounts in other names at
various times to aid in his schemes, but his main account has always stood in his real name;
and by that, you see, we get some confirmation of Peytral's story. Well, as I say, the account
was opened in the name of Mayes, and the cheque-book was issued which we discovered last night.
The Upper Holloway branch saw no more of its customer till yesterday evening, long after hours,
when he drove up in a hansom."

"Oh," I said, "in a hansom, was it? The men left behind could get no news of him."

"Yes, we ascertained that last night; we called back, of course, the last thing. I expect he
got the first cab visible and drove off to a hatter's a fair distance away, and then on to
the bank. At any rate, he knocked up the manager and told him that he had a sudden need for
money that very night; could he have some?

"The manager told him it would be impossible. Even if he had been willing to do it, against
all regulations, it would still be impossible. For the strong-room and every cash receptacle
in it was locked with two separate locks with different keys, and though he had one of these
keys himself, it was useless without the other, which was in the possession of his second in
command, who lived some distance out of London. This course is the usual precaution adopted
in branch banks of this sort; opening and closing, morning and evening, have to be done by
chief and assistant together. And I tell you, Brett, I believe that it was only the being informed
of this fact that prevented Mayes from trying some of his hypnotic tricks on the bank manager;
in which case there would have been a big bank robbery--perhaps something worse in addition."

"Murder?"

"Murder with a tourniquet, perhaps--perhaps with some other weapon; but, at any rate, probably
with the Red Triangle. You know, of course--indeed I told you, I think--that in most cases--not
all--it is necessary to get the subject's consent to the first exercise of hypnotism on him.
I told you also it is possible for the practised hypnotist, while the subject is under the
influence of the first experiment, to suggest to him a certain word or formula, or even a silent
sign, which shall bring him under the influence at any other time, whenever the hypnotist chooses
to repeat it--just as must have been done with Mr. Telfer, in the case of the Admiralty code.
The first suggestion would not be the difficult thing it might seem--it would only require
a little time and persuasion. Nothing would be said about hypnotism, of course; perhaps something
about a little physical experiment, or the like, and then in a moment or two the subject would
be in this creature's power for ever. Remember the little 'ceremony of initiation' that the
scoundrel attempted to persuade you to submit to! That meant hypnotism--perhaps death.

"But this is mere speculation. Mayes found that the keys on the premises were not enough to
release his money, even if the strict rules of the bank had permitted the cashing of a cheque
out of hours. But the manager suggested that perhaps some neighbouring tradesman would exchange
cash for a cheque, and, with the view of obliging the new customer, went with him as far as
the shop of Mr. Isaac Trenaman, a grocer and cheesemonger with a rather large shop at the corner
of the road. Mr. Trenaman, introduced and assured by the manager, was willing to give as much
cash as he could find in the till against Mr. Mayes's cheque, and did so to the extent of twenty-seven
pounds, a cheque for which sum was duly drawn on one of the tradesman's own cheque forms, and
left with him. This done, the bank's new customer took himself off, with thanks and apologies;
carrying with him, however, two blank cheque forms from Mr. Trenaman's book, the pennies for
which he punctiliously paid over the counter. Having no cheque forms with him, he explained,
he might find them useful if he could come across some friend who could provide the cash he
wished to use that night. And having completed this business so far, this charming new customer
of the bank made off into the night."

"And is that all you know of his movements?"

"Yes, as yet. He seems to have made no very definite excuse to the manager for wanting the
money in such a hurry--just said something had occurred which made cash necessary, and was
very polite and apologetic, generally. The manager formed a notion that it must be for some
gambling purpose--he fancied that Mayes said something distantly alluding to that, but wasn't
sure."

"Did you ask about the address given to the bank?"

"Of course; but there we gained nothing. The manager couldn't remember it exactly, and the
books, of course, were locked up. But we know it already--for what the manager could remember
was that it was an office address, and somewhere near Barbican! So that we are back at the
Barbican den again, where I am going now, with Plummer, to give a day to a minute investigation
of the whole place. Meanwhile a watch is being set at the bank in Holloway."

"Do you expect him back there, then?"

"Hardly. You see he knows that by this time we must have found his cheque-book, and will be
on the watch. But there is just a chance--a very remote one--that he may send a message; perhaps
send somebody to cash a cheque. Though I don't expect it, for he is no fool--he is, indeed,
a sort of genius--and that would be a mistake, I think. Still, he is bold, and that is where
his money is, and he may make a dash at it. So a couple of Plummer's men are to be waiting
there, this morning, in the manager's office, and if anybody comes from Mayes he will be detained.
Perhaps you would like to be with them? You can't be of much use with me, and the job will
be dull. But there you may have a chance of excitement, and you will be useful to come and
report if anything does happen. Why, you may even bag Mayes himself!"

"Of course--I'll go anywhere you please. They told you last night, I suppose, that Peytral
had business, and had gone off?"

"Yes, and I'm not sorry. He is too dangerous a man to have about us, with his hot blood and
the terrible injuries he keeps in memory. As likely as not, if we get Mayes, we should next
have to collar Peytral for shooting him, or something. So I'm not sorry he is out of it for
a bit. But can you start now? Plummer is in my office and the two men are in a cab outside.
The bank opens at nine, and that is in Upper Holloway."

I seized my hat and made ready.

"You should keep your eyes open," Hewitt hinted, "before you get to the bank and when you leave,
as well as while you're there. Do you remember how poor Mason was watched? Well, there is probably
some watching going on now. Last night, on our way to the bank and back, I believe Plummer
and I were watched pretty closely."

III

Plummer's two plain-clothes men and I reached the neighbourhood of the bank with a quarter
of an hour to spare, or rather more. We dismissed the cab at some little distance from the
spot, and approached singly, so that it was not difficult for us to slip in separately among
the dozen or fifteen clerks as they arrived. We passed directly into the manager's room, the
door of which opened into the space left for the public before the counter. From this room
the whole of the outer office was visible through the glass of the partition. The manager,
Mr. Blockley, a quick, intelligent man of thirty-six or so, gave us chairs and pointed out
how best we could watch the counter without ourselves being observed.

"If a letter is sent," he said, "it will be brought here to me, of course, and I will bring
the messenger in. If a cheque is presented from Mayes, I have told the cashier to slide that
big ledger off his desk accidentally with his elbow. That will be your signal, and then you
can do whatever you think proper. I don't think I can do any more than that."

We took our positions and waited. I felt pretty sure that if Mayes sent at all it would be
early, for obvious reasons. And I was right, for the very first customer was our man.

He stepped in briskly scarcely a minute after the manager had ceased speaking, and I remembered
having seen him waiting at the street corner as I came along. He was a well-dressed, smart
enough looking man, in frock coat and tall hat. He took a letter-case from his pocket, picked
out a cheque from the rest of the papers in it, and passed it under the wire grille of the counter.

The cashier took it, turned it over, and shifted mechanically to post the amount in the book
on his desk. As he did so his elbow touched the heavy ledger which the manager had pointed
out to us, and it fell with a crash. The cashier calmly put his pen behind his ear, and stooped
to pick up the book, but even as he did it the two Scotland Yard men were out before the counter,
and had sidled up to the stranger, one on each side.

"May we see that cheque, if you please?" asked one, and the cashier turned its face toward
him. "Ah, just so; a hundred pounds--Mayes. We must just trouble you to come with us, if you
please. There is some explanation wanted about that cheque."

I had followed the two men from the manager's room, and now I saw that while one had laid his
hand on the stranger's shoulder the other had taken him by the opposite arm. "Why," said the
former, looking into his face, "it's Broady Sims!"

"All right," the man growled resignedly. "It's a cop. I'll go quiet."

But as he spoke I saw the free hand steal out behind him and pitch away a crumpled fragment
of paper. One of the policemen saw it too, followed it with his eyes, and saw me snatch it up.

"That's right, sir," he said, "take care of that; and we'll have a cab, in case anything else
drops accidentally. It's just a turning over, Broady, that's what it is."

I spread out the piece of paper, and was astonished to find inscribed on it just such another
series of figures, in groups of eight, as was found in the cypher message in the Case of the
Lever Key.

Here was a great find--a secret message as clear to me as to Mayes himself, and as likely as
not the scrap of paper that would hang him! I took one of the plain-clothes men aside while
the other kept his hold of Broady Sims.

"This is very important," I said. "It is a cypher message which Mr. Hewitt can read--or I,
myself, in fact, with a little time. Must you take it with you? If so, I'll make a copy now."

"Well, sir, we're responsible, you see," the man said, "so I think we must take it; so perhaps
you'd better make a copy, as you suggest."

"Very well," I said, "that is done in a few seconds. You can take your man off, and I will
go direct to Mr. Hewitt and Inspector Plummer with the copy." And with that I made the copy,
which read thus:--

               23, 19, 15, 1, 9, 14, 9, 2; 20, 8, 1,
               20, 14, 14, 20, 8; 14, 5, 12, 4, 9, 7,
               5, 14; 3, 8, 18, 23, 0, 14, 1, 8; 22,
               9, 6, 1, 18, 3, 5, 1; 19, 14, 15, 21,
               9, 0, 20, 12; 18, 12, 21, 1, 6, 23, 20,
               12; 9, 18, 15, 5, 18, 13, 12, 20.

It struck me to ask the manager if the cheque just presented were one of those procured from
Mr. Trenaman the night before, and I found that it was. Then I left the policemen with their
prisoner and made for the nearest cab-rank. This cypher message, no doubt conveying Mayes's
instructions to the man just captured, was probably of the utmost importance, and Hewitt must
see it at once; and as the cab ambled along towards Barbican I busied myself in deciphering
the figures according to the plan of the knight's move in chess, as Hewitt had explained to
me. I could only see two noughts among the numbers, so plainly it was a longer message than
the one then deciphered--one of sixty-two letters, in fact. I turned the figures into the letters
corresponding in the alphabet, a for 1, b for 2, and so on, as Hewitt had done, and I arranged
these letters in the squares of a roughly drawn chessboard, so that they stood thus:--

               w s o a i n i b
               t h a t n n t h
               n e l d i g e n
               c h r w o n a h
               v i f a r c e a
               s n o u i o t l
               r l u a f w t l
               i r o e r m l t

The letters thus set out, to read off the message was a simple task enough, in view of the
key Hewitt had given me. I began, as in the case of the Lever Key message, at the right-hand
top corner, and taking the knight's move from b to e in the last square but one of the third
line, thence to a at the end of the fifth line, and so to t in the seventh line, and from that
to r (fifth square in bottom line), u in seventh line and so on, in the order shown by the
Lever Key message, a copy of which I kept as a curiosity in my pocket-book. So I read the message
through, and I set it down thus:--

/#
     Be at ruin Channel Marsh to-night twelve; wait in hall for
     instruc. Word final.
#/

The general meaning of this seemed clear enough. The man whom the policeman had recognised
as Broady Sims was to be at some spot--a ruined building, it would seem--in a place called
Channel Marsh, at midnight, there to wait in the hall for instructions; no doubt for instructions
where to take the hundred pounds he was to have got from the bank. "Word final" was not so
clear, though I judged--and I think rightly--that it meant that the word "final" was to be
used as a password by which the two messengers should know each other.

I was almost at my destination, and was cogitating the message and its meaning, when the cab
checked at some traffic in Barbican, just by the "Compasses" public-house, and Mr. Victor Peytral
hailed me and climbed on the step of the cab.

"I was just going to see if Mr. Hewitt was at the place," he said, "and if so to ask him for
news. But I am rather in a hurry, and perhaps you can tell me?"

"We are on the track, I think," I answered, "and I have just come across this, which I am taking
to Hewitt," and with that I showed him my translation of the cypher, and gave him its history
in half a dozen sentences.

"That's good," Peytral answered. "I don't know Channel Marsh, do you? But probably Mr. Hewitt
does. I won't keep you any longer--I see you're hurrying. But I hope to see you again before long."

He dropped off the step and disappeared, and the cab went on round the corner by the "Compasses."

I found Hewitt and Plummer in the office where, on pretence of bookbindery, I had first seen
Mayes face to face the day before. They were near the completion of their examination of this
office and all its contents, and soon would begin as systematically on the premises behind.
I gave Hewitt my copy of the cypher message, and my translation, with an exact account of how
it had come into my possession.

Martin Hewitt studied the message for a minute or two, and then relapsed into grave thought.
So he sat for some little time, while Plummer left the room by the window and descended the
ladder to speak with his men on guard below.

Presently Hewitt looked up and said: "Brett, this message is most important--probably as important
as you suppose it to be. But at the same time I believe you have made a great mistake about it."

"But I haven't misread it, have I? Is there any other way----"

"No, you haven't misread it; you've read every word as it was intended to be read. But it is
a very different thing from what you suppose it to be."

"What is it, then?"

Martin Hewitt put the paper on the table and looked keenly in my face. "It is a trap," he said.
"It is a trap to catch me--unless I flatter myself unduly."

I could not understand. "A trap?" I repeated. "But how?"

"Why should Mayes need to send his confederate instructions by written note? We know the nature
of his hold over his subordinates, and we know that it means personal communication. Also,
the cheque was in Mayes's own hands last night. More, Mayes knows very well that I have read
that cypher--has known it for some time; otherwise how could we have discovered the bonds in
the case of the Lever Key? Also, Mayes knows that we have his cheque-book and know his bank.
Didn't I assure you we were watched last night? I believe he knows all we have done. In such
circumstances he might risk his jackal's liberty by sending him on the desperate chance of
cashing a cheque, but, knowing the risk, he would never have let him come with information
on him. And least of all would he have let him come carrying a vital secret written in that
very cypher which he knows I read many weeks ago. And then see how that message, instead of
being concealed, was positively brought to your notice! That man Broady Sims is a cunning rascal,
and the police know him of old as a skilful swindler and bill-forger. A man like that doesn't
get rid of a compromising scrap of paper by trundling it out under your nose just at the moment
he is arrested, when the attention of everybody is directed to him; no, he would wait his opportunity,
and then he would probably slip it into his mouth and swallow it. As it is, he would seem to
have succeeded in dropping this paper full in your sight, with an elaborate pretence of secrecy.
Now this is what has been done, Brett. That man has been sent to cash a cheque, with very little
hope of success, or none, because the first move that Mayes would anticipate on our part would
be the watching for him and his cheques at the bank in Upper Holloway. If by any chance the
cheques had been cashed, well and good, no harm would have been done, and then Mayes could
have gone on to arrange for drawing the rest of his balance--could probably have quite safely
come himself to draw it. But if on the other hand, as he fully anticipated, Sims was arrested,
what then? Nothing was lost but a penny cheque-form, and even Sims--though Mayes would care
nothing about that--could only be searched and then released, for the cheque was perfectly
genuine, and there was no charge against him. But since he would certainly be searched, that
cypher note was given him, with instructions to make a conspicuous show of attempting to get
rid of it. Now that note was written in a cypher which Mayes knew was as plain as print--to
whom? To me. I am on his trail, and this note is deliberately flung in my way, open as the
day, but with every appearance of secrecy. I am his dangerous enemy, and he knows it--as he
told you, in fact, yesterday. If he can clear me away, he can take breath and make himself
safe. The purpose of this note is to induce me to go, alone, to this place on Channel Marsh
to-night at twelve, in the hope of learning where to find Mayes. There I am to be got rid of--murdered
in some way, for which preparation will be made. Mayes judges my character pretty well. He
knows that, in such circumstances as he represents, Sims being kept away from his appointment,
I should certainly go and take his place, and use his password, to learn what I could. And,
Brett, that is precisely what I shall do!"

"What? You will go?" I exclaimed. "But you mustn't--the danger! We'd better both go together."

Hewitt smiled. "Why not forty of us?" he said. "No. Here is a chance of bagging our man, for,
however I am to be arranged for--whether by shot, steel, or the tourniquet, I make no doubt
it is Mayes himself who is to do it. You shall come, however, you and Plummer at least. But
we will not go in a bunch--you shall follow me and watch, ready to help when needful. This
Channel Marsh is an empty, dark space between two channels of the Lea. It is among the Hackney
Marshes, lying between Stratford and Homerton, and I fancy there is a deserted house there,
though I can't remember ever having seen it. Do you know it?"

"No; not in the least."

"Well, I must reconnoitre to-day, and that with a lot of care. I think I told you I was convinced
of being watched, and that is a thing you can't prevent in a place like London, if it is skilfully
done. Now, Brett, you have done very well this morning. If you want to be on the scene of action
to-night at twelve, you must get leave from your editor, mustn't you? How's your wrist?"

It was still extremely stiff, and I told Hewitt that I doubted my ability to hold a pen for
two or three days.

"Very well, then; get off and convey your excuses as soon as you please. I shall have a talk
with Plummer, and then I shall take a few hours to myself, by myself, in somebody else's clothes.
Be in your rooms all the evening, for you may expect a message."

IV

It was at a little past nine in the evening that I next saw Hewitt. He came into my rooms in
an incongruous get-up. He wore corduroy trousers, a very dirty striped jersey, a particularly
greasy old jacket, and a twisted neckcloth; but over all was an excellent overcoat, and on
his head a tall hat of high polish.

"Brought to me by Kerrett," he said, in explanation of the hat and overcoat. "He's been waiting
with them for a long time in a court by Milford Lane. A good hat and overcoat will cover anything,
and I preferred to enter this building in my own character. I've been wearing that this afternoon,"
and he pulled out of his pocket an old peaked cap with ear-pieces tied over the top.

"You mustn't bring your best clothes," he went on, "or you'll spoil them scrambling about boats
and groping in ditches. I have done my ditch-groping for the day, and I'm going to change.
You had best be putting on older things while I get into newer."

"What sort of place is this Channel Marsh?" I asked.

"Well, I should think there must be a great many better places to spend a night in. It must
be the dreariest, wettest flat within many miles of London, and I should like to see the portrait
of the man who had the idea of building a house there. For a house there is, or rather the
ruins of it--deserted for years, and half carried away by rats and people who wanted slates
and firewood and water pipes."

"Is that the place where you intend waiting to-night?"

"It is. I haven't examined it nearly so closely as I should like, for fear of raising a scare.
Channel Marsh is almost an island, with a narrow neck of an entrance at each end. A foot-track
runs the whole length, and a person in the ruined house can easily see anybody entering the
Marsh from either end. For that reason I reconnoitred from a boat--the boat you will go in
to-night. I think it is the very dirtiest old tub I ever saw, so that it suited my rig out.
I discovered it at a wharf some little way down the river, and I paid a shilling for the hire
of it. Channel Marsh is banked a bit on one side, and I crept up under cover of the bank. I
learned very little, beyond the general lie of the land, because I was so mighty cautious.
I judged it better to be content with half an examination, rather than drive away the game.
And even as it is I've an idea I have been seen. I lay up among some reeds till dark, but after
that I am sure there was somebody on the Marsh--and skulking, too, like me. So after waiting
and scouting for a little I gave it up and paddled quietly back."

"But look here, Hewitt," I said, "this seems a bit mad. Why go and risk yourself as you talk
of doing? You believe Mayes will be there, at the ruin, or will come there at twelve. Very
well, then, why can't the police send enough men to surround the place and capture him for
certain?"

Hewitt smiled and shook his head. "My dear Brett," he said, "you haven't seen the place, and
I have. It will be hard enough job for you and Plummer to get near the spot unobserved, guided
by a man who knows every inch. A trampling crowd of policemen would have as much chance as
a herd of elephants, and on such light nights as we are having now they would be seen a mile
off. And who knows what scouts he may have out? No, as I say, it will be a great piece of luck
if you get through unobserved as it is, and even now I'm not perfectly certain that I couldn't
do best alone. However, arrangements are made now, and you are coming, three of you."

"Then what are the arrangements?" I asked.

"Just these. You are to leave here first. Make the best of your way to Mile End Gate, where
an old inn stands in the middle of the road. Go to the corner of the turning opposite this,
at the south side of the road. At eleven o'clock a four-wheeler will drive up, with Plummer
and one of his men in it. The man is one who knows all the geography of Channel Marsh, and
he also knows exactly where to find the boat I used to-day. You will drive to a little way
beyond Bow Bridge, and then Plummer's man will lead you to the boat. You had better scull and
leave the others to look out. They will know what to do. You will pull along to a place where
you can watch till you see me coming on to the Marsh by the path. As soon as you see me you
will slip quietly along to a place the policeman will show you, close to the ruin, and watch
again. That's all. I don't know whether or not you think it worth while to take a pistol. I
certainly shall; but then I'm most likely to want it. Plummer will have one."

I thought it well worth while, and I took my regulation "Webley"--a relic of my old Volunteer
captaincy. Then, by way of the underground railway, I gained the neighbourhood of Mile End,
and interested myself about its back streets till the time approached to look for Plummer's cab.

Plummer was more than punctual--indeed, he was two or three minutes before his time. The cab
drew near the kerb and scarcely stopped, so quickly did I scramble in.

"Good," said Plummer; "we're well ahead of time. Mr. Hewitt quite right?"

"Yes," I said. "I left him so an hour and a half ago at his office." And we sat silent while
the cab rattled and rumbled over the stony road to Bow Bridge, and the shopkeepers on the way
put up their shutters and extinguished their lights.

Bow Bridge was reached and passed, and presently we stopped the cab and alighted. Here Styles,
Plummer's man, took the lead, and a little way farther along the road we turned into a dark
and muddy lane on the left. We floundered through this for some hundred and fifty yards or
so, and then suddenly drew in at an opening on the right. Here we stood for a few moments while
our guide groped his way down toward the muddy water we could smell, rather than see, a little
way before us.

There were a few broken steps and a broad black thing which was the boat. We got into it as
silently as we could manage, and cast off. It was a clumsy, broad-beamed, leaky old conveyance,
and that it was as dirty as Hewitt had described it I could feel as I groped for the sculls
and got them out. The night was light and dark by turns--changing with the clouds. We shipped
the rudder, and Styles steered, or I should probably have run ashore more than once, for the
banks were not always distinct, and the channel was narrow and dark. We passed the black forms
of several factories with tall chimneys, and then drew out among the Marshes, flat and grey,
with wisps of mist lying here and there. So we went in silence for a while, till at last we
drew in against the bank on the left and laid hold by a post at a landing-place.

"This is the Channel Marsh," whispered Styles, as we climbed cautiously ashore. "We can't see
the house very well from here, but there's where Mr. Hewitt will come through."

Looking over the top of the low bank, we could discern a path which traversed the length of
the marsh, entering it by a broken gate at a neck of land which we must have passed on our
way. Here we crouched and waited. We had heard the half-hour struck on some distant clock soon
after entering the boat, and now we waited anxiously for the three-quarters. So long did the
time seem to my excited perceptions that I had quite decided that the clock must have stopped,
or, at any rate, did not chime quarters, when at last the strokes came, distant and plaintive,
over the misty flats.

"A quarter of an hour," Plummer remarked. "He won't be a minute late, nor a minute too early,
from what I know of him. How long will it take him from that gate to the ruin?"

"Eight or nine minutes, good," Styles answered.

"Then we shall see him in seven minutes or six minutes, as the case may be," Plummer rejoined
in the same low tones.

Slowly the minutes dragged, with not a sound about us save the sucking and lapping of the muddy
river and the occasional flop of a water-rat. The dark clouds were now fewer, and the moon
was high and only partially obscured by the thinner clouds that traversed its face. More than
once I fancied a sound from the direction of the ruin, and then I doubted my fancy; when at
last there was a sound indeed, but from the opposite direction, and in a moment we saw Hewitt,
muffled close about the neck, walking briskly up the path.

We regained the boat with all possible speed and silence, and I pulled my best, regardless
of my stiff wrist. During our watch I had had time to perceive the wisdom of the arrangements
which had been made. We had been watching from a place fairly out of sight from the ruin, yet
sufficiently near it to be able to reach its neighbourhood before Hewitt; and certainly it
was better to approach the actual spot at the same time as Hewitt himself, for then, if he
were being watched for, the attention of the watcher would be diverted from us.

Presently we reached the reed-bed that Hewitt had spoken of, and I could see a sort of little
creek or inlet. Here I ceased to pull, and Styles cautiously punted us into the creek with
one of the sculls. The boat grounded noiselessly in the mud, and we crept ashore one at a time
through mud and sedge.

The creek was edged with a bank of rough, broken ground, grown with coarse grass and bramble,
and as we peeped over this bank the ruined house stood before us--so near as to startle me
by its proximity. It must have been a large house originally--if, indeed, it was ever completed.
Now it stood roofless, dismantled, and windowless, and in many places whole rods of brickwork
had fallen and now littered the ground about. The black gap of the front door stood plain to
see, with a short flight of broken steps before it, and by the side of these a thick timber
shore supported the front wall. It struck me then that the ruin was perhaps largely due to
a failure of the marshy foundation.

The place seemed silent and empty. Hewitt's footsteps were now plain to hear, and presently
he appeared, walking briskly as before. He could not see us, and did not look for us, but made
directly for the broken steps. He mounted these, paused on the topmost, and struck a match.
It seemed a rather large hall, and I caught a momentary glimpse of bare rafters and plasterless
wall. Then the match went out and Hewitt stepped within.

Almost on the instant there came a loud jar, and a noise of falling bricks; and then, in the
same instant of time I heard a terrific crash, and saw Hewitt leap out at the front door--leap
out, as it seemed, from a cloud of dust and splinters.

I sprang to my feet, but Plummer pulled me down again. "Steady!" he said, "lie low! He isn't
hurt. Wait and see before we show ourselves."

It seemed that the floor above had fallen on the spot where Hewitt had been standing. He had
alighted from his leap on hands and knees, but now stood facing the house, revolver in hand,
watching.

There was a moment's pause, a sound of movement from the upper part of the ruin, another quiet
moment, and then a bang and a flash from high on the wall to the right. Hewitt sprang to shelter
behind the heavy shore, and another shot followed him, scoring a white line across the thick
timber.

Plummer was up, and Styles and I were after him.

"There he is!" cried Plummer, "up on the coping!" I pulled out my own pistol.

"Don't shoot!" cried Hewitt. "We'll take him alive!"

Far to the right, on the topmost coping of the front wall, I could see a crouching figure.
I saw it rise to its knees, and once more raise an arm to take aim at Hewitt; and then, with
a sudden cry, another human figure appeared from behind the coping and sprang upon the first.
There was a moment of struggle, and then the rotten coping crumbled, and down, down, came bricks
and men together.

I sickened. I can only explain my feeling by saying that never before had I seen anything that
seemed so long in falling as those two men. And then with a horrid crash they struck the broken
ground, and the pistol fired again with the shock.

We reached them in a dozen strides, and turned them over, limp, oozing, and lifeless. And then
we saw that one was Mayes, and the other--Victor Peytral!

We kept no silence now, but Plummer blew his whistle loud and long, and I fired my revolver
into the air, chamber after chamber. Styles started off at a run along the path towards the
town lights, to fetch what aid he might.

But even then we had doubt if any aid would avail Mayes. He was the under man in the fall,
and he had dropped across a little heap of bricks. He now lay unconscious, breathing heavily,
with a terrible wound at the back of the head, and Hewitt foretold--and rightly--that when
the doctor did come he would find a broken spine. Peytral, on the other hand, though unconscious,
showed no sign of injury, and just before the doctor came sighed heavily and turned on his side.

First there came policemen, and then in a little time a hastily dressed surgeon, and after
him an ambulance. Mayes was carried off to hospital, but with a good deal of rubbing and a
little brandy, Peytral came round well enough to be helped over the Marshes to a cab.

The trap which had been laid for Hewitt was simple, but terribly effective. The floor above
the hall--loose and broken everywhere--was supported on rafters, and the rafters were crossed
underneath and supported at the centre by a stout beam. The rafters had been sawn through at
both ends, and the rotten floor had been piled high with broken brick and stone to a weight
of a ton or more. The end of a loose beam had been wedged obliquely under the end of the one
timber now supporting the whole weight, so that a pull on the opposite end of this long lever
would force away the bricks on which the beam rested and let the whole weight fall. It was
the jar of the beam and the fall of the first few loose bricks that had so far warned Hewitt
as to enable him to leap from under the floor almost as it fell.

Peytral's sudden appearance, when we had time to reflect on it, gave us a suspicion as to some
at least of the espionage to which Hewitt had been subjected--a suspicion confirmed, later,
by Peytral himself after his recovery from the shock of the fall. For fresh news of his enemy
had re-awakened all his passion, and since he alone could not find him, he was willing enough
to let Hewitt do the tracking down, if only he himself might clutch Mayes's throat in the end.
This explained the "business" that had called him away after the Barbican stronghold had been
captured; finding both Hewitt and Plummer somewhat uncommunicative, and himself somewhat "out
of it," he had drawn off, and had followed Hewitt's every movement, confident that he would
be led to his old enemy at last. What I had told him of the cypher message had led him to hunt
out Channel Marsh in the afternoon, and to return at midnight. He, of course, regarded the
message, as I did myself at the time, as a perfectly genuine instruction from Mayes to Sims,
and he came to the rendezvous wholly in ignorance as to what Hewitt was doing, and with no
better hope than that he might hear something that would lead him in the direction of Mayes.
He had entered the marsh after dark from the upper end, and had lain concealed by the other
channel till near midnight; then he had crept to the rear of the ruin and climbed to where
an opening seemed to offer a good chance of hearing what might pass in the hall. He had heard
Hewitt approach from the front, and the crash that followed. The rest we had seen.

V

Mayes never recovered consciousness, and was dead when we visited the hospital the day after;
both skull and spine were badly fractured. And the very last we saw of the Red Triangle was
the implement with which it had been impressed, which was found in his pocket.

It was a small triangular prism of what I believe is called soapstone. It was perhaps four
inches long, and the face at the end corresponded with the mark that Hewitt had seen on the
forehead of Mr. Jacob Mason. It fitted closely in a leather case, in the end of which was a
small, square metal box full of the red, greasy pigment with which the mark had been impressed.

It was from Broady Sims that we learnt the exact use and meaning of this implement: though
he would not say a word till he had seen with his own eyes Mayes lying dead in the mortuary.
Then he gasped his relief and said, "That's the end of something worse than slavery for me!
I'll turn straight after this."

Sims's story was long, and it went over ground that concerns none of Hewitt's adventures. But
what we learned from it was briefly this. It had been Mayes's way to meet clever criminals
as they left gaol after a term of imprisonment. In this manner he had met Sims. He had made
great promises, had spoken of great ideas which they could put into execution together, had
lent him money, and then at last had "initiated" him, as he called it. He had put him to lie
back in a chair and had directed his gaze on the Red Triangle held in the air before him: and
then the Triangle had descended gently, and he felt sleepy, till at the cold touch of the thing
on his forehead his senses had gone. This was done more than once, and in the end the victim
found that Mayes had only to raise the Triangle before him to send him to sleep instantly.
Then he found that he must do certain things, whether he wanted or not. And it ended in complete
subservience; so that Mayes could set him to perpetrate a robbery and then appropriate the
proceeds for himself, for by post-hypnotic suggestion he could force him to bring and hand
over every penny. More, the poor wretch was held in constant terror, for he knew that his very
life depended on the lift of his master's hand. He could be sent into lethargy by a gesture
and killed in that state. That very thing was done, in fact, as we have seen, in two cases.

Sims was but one of a gang of such criminals, brought to heel and made victims. Their minds
and souls, such as they were, had passed into the miscreant's keeping, and terror reinforced
the power of hypnotism. They committed crimes, and when they failed they took the punishment;
when they succeeded Mayes took the gains, or at any rate the greater part of them. He went,
also, among people who were not yet criminals, and by degrees made them so, to his own profit.
The case of Henning, the correspondence clerk, was one that had come under Hewitt's eyes. He
used his faculty also with great cunning in other ways--as we had seen in the matter of the
Admiralty code. And it was even said among the gang that a man he had once hypnotised he could
force by suggestion to commit suicide when he became useless or inconvenient.

Sims and the ragged fellow who had decoyed me into Mayes's den were the only members of the
gang whom we could identify after his death, but many others must have shared their relief;
and I sincerely hope--though I hardly expect--that they all availed themselves of their liberty
to abandon their evil courses. As in fact the two I speak of did, and took to honest work.

All that had remained mysterious in the earlier cases now became clear. In the first, the case
of Samuel's diamonds, Denson had been put into the office where Samuel had found him, by Mayes,
with the express design of effecting a diamond robbery. The robbery was effected, and the unhappy
Denson formed a plan of making a bolt of it himself with the diamonds. He was, perhaps, what
is called a difficult subject in hypnotism--amenable enough to direct influence, but not sufficiently
retentive of post-hypnotic suggestion. He hid the jewels and adopted a disguise, but Mayes
was watching him better than he supposed. The diamonds were lost, but Denson was found and
done to death--probably not in that retreat near Barbican, but at night in some empty street.
The diamonds were not found on him, and the body, with the mark of the Triangle still on it,
was taken by night to a central spot in London and there left. Why all this trouble, one asks,
for no apparent reason, except that old- fashioned shirts opened in front, and no Yankee will wear
a non- patented garment— if he can help it?

There was way. Buttons mostly backed ears into mechanism screwed or clinched
them to their moorings.

Collars and cuffs( integral parts of primitive garment) are now a labyrinth, in which all not a
single accessory to the in that car which behaved in a normal but
the initiated must lose themselves, being place, and made of every
known substance except ways, tail- end foremost( like horses getting
between shafts) within, where some hidden double- decked, detachable,
reversible linen.

The cuff most in favor can be worn four different, and is attached to the shirt
by a instrument three inches long, with nipper at each end.
 Denson had left his lodgings, and
as to the office, that, he would guess, would be in the hands of the police, on Samuel's complaint.
The immediate result of this affair on the only honest member of Mayes's circle I have told
in the case of Mr. Jacob Mason. He was not yet thoroughly in Mayes's hands, but he had "dabbled,"
as he remorsefully confessed, and Mayes had already found him useful. He was dangerous, and
his end came quickly. Another victim who had probably begun innocently enough was Henning,
the clerk to Kingsley, Bell and Dalton, and his death in the Penn's Meadow barn leaves a mystery
that never can be positively cleared up. Was it murder or was it suicide by post-hypnotic suggestion?
It will be remembered that the fire burst out in the barn after Mayes had left it.

The case of Mr. Telfer was explained clearly enough by Hewitt at the time; but it is an example
of the snares that lie open for the most innocent person who allows himself to be made the
subject of hypnotic experiments at the hands of persons with whom, and with whose objects,
he is not thoroughly acquainted. And it must be remembered that at this time there are persons
advertising to teach the practice of hypnotism to anybody who will pay; to anybody who may
use the terrible power as he pleases. More, the danger is so great that it has led two eminent
men of science to issue a public protest and warning, with an urgent plea that the practice
of hypnotism be restricted by law at least as closely as that of vivisection.

As to what would have happened if Plummer and I had yielded to Mayes's threats so far as to
undergo the "initiation" he proposed, at the time we were helpless in his hands--of that I
have little doubt. I cannot suppose that he would have wasted much time over me, once I had
fallen lethargic. When Hewitt burst in he would have found me lying dead, with the Red Triangle
on my forehead. It would have saved Mayes a lot of noise and struggle, at least.

But I often wonder whether or not there was anything in his reference to the place beyond the
sea, where he would make me a great man if I did as he wished. Was it his design, having accumulated
sufficient wealth, to return and take his natural place among the enlightened rulers of Hayti?
He would not have been so much worse than some of the others.

