A few years ago a friend of mine told me of something that happened to him when he was a. young
man and out drilling with some Connaught Fenians. They were but a car-full, and drove along
a hillside until they came to a quiet place. They left the car and went further up the hill
with their rifles, and drilled for a while. As they were coming down again they saw a very
thin, long-legged pig of the old Irish sort, and the pig began to follow them. One of them
cried out as a joke that it was a fairy pig, and they all began to run to keep up the joke.
The pig ran too, and presently, how nobody knew, this mock terror became real terror, and they
ran as for their lives. When they got to the car they made the horse gallop as fast as possible,
but the pig still followed. Then one of them put up his rifle to fire, but when he looked along
the barrel he could see nothing. Presently they turned a corner and came to a village. They
told the people of the village what had happened, and the people of the village took pitchforks
and spades and the like, and went along the road with them to drive the pig away. When they
turned the comer they could not find anything.

1902.

A VOICE

One day I was walking over a bit of marshy ground close to Inchy Wood when I felt, all of a
sudden, and only for a second, an emotion which I said to myself was the root of Christian
mysticism. There had swept over me a sense of weakness, of dependence on a great personal Being
somewhere far off yet near at hand. No thought of mine had prepared me for this emotion, for
I had been pre-occupied with Aengus and Edain, and with Mannanan, son of the sea. That night
I awoke lying upon my back and hearing a voice speaking above me and saying, "No human soul
is like any other human soul, and therefore the love of God for any human soul is infinite,
for no other soul can satisfy the same need in God." A few nights after this I awoke to see
the loveliest people I have ever seen. A young man and a young girl dressed in olive-green
raiment, cut like old Greek raiment, were standing at my bedside. I looked at the girl and
noticed that her dress was gathered about her neck into a kind of chain, or perhaps into some
kind of stiff embroidery which represented ivy-leaves. But what filled me with wonder was the
miraculous mildness of her face. There are no such faces now. It was beautiful, as few faces
are beautiful, but it had neither, one would think, the light that is in desire or in hope
or in fear or in speculation. It was peaceful like the faces of animals, or like mountain pools
at evening, so peaceful that it was a little sad. I thought for a moment that she might be
the beloved of Aengus, but how could that hunted, alluring, happy, immortal wretch have a face
like this? Doubtless she was from among the children of the Moon, but who among them I shall
never know.

1902.

KIDNAPPERS

A little north of the town of Sligo, on the southern side of Ben Bulben, some hundreds of feet
above the plain, is a small white square in the limestone. No mortal has ever touched it with
his hand; no sheep or goat has ever browsed grass beside it. There is no more inaccessible
place upon the earth, and few more encircled by awe to the deep considering. It is the door
of faery-land. In the middle of night it swings open, and the unearthly troop rushes out. All
night the gay rabble sweep to and fro across the land, invisible to all, unless perhaps where,
in some more than commonly "gentle" place--Drumcliff or Drum-a-hair--the nightcapped heads
of faery-doctors may be thrust from their doors to see what mischief the "gentry" are doing.