The road went northward, into dark forests, over the same undulating, yet monotonous country
as before. The ground was rough and hard, and our progress slow, so that we did not reach the
end of the first station (10 miles) until nine o'clock. As we drove into the post-house, three
other travellers, who had the start of us, and consequently the first right to horses, drove
away. I was dismayed to find that my förbud had not been received, but the ostler informed
me that by paying twelve skillings extra I could have horses at once. While the new carts were
getting ready, the postman, wrapped in wolf-skin, and with a face reddened by the wind, came
up, and handed out my förbud ticket. Such was our first experience of förbud.

On the next station, the peasant who was ahead with our luggage left the main road and took
a rough track through the woods. Presently we came to a large inlet of the Bothnian gulf, frozen
solid from shore to shore, and upon this we boldly struck out. The ice was nearly a foot thick,
and as solid as marble. So we drove for at least four miles, and finally came to land on the
opposite side, near a sawmill. At the next post-house we found our predecessors just setting
off again in sleds; the landlord informed us that he had only received my förbud an hour previous,
and, according to law was allowed three hours to get ready his second instalment of horses,
the first being exhausted. There was no help for it: we therefore comforted ourselves with
breakfast. At one o'clock we set out again in low Norrland sleds, but there was little snow
at first, and we were obliged to walk the first few miles. The station was a long one (twenty
English miles), and our horses not the most promising. Coming upon solid snow at last, we travelled
rather more swiftly, but with more risk. The sleds, although so low, rest upon narrow runners,
and the shafts are attached by a hook, upon which they turn in all directions, so that the
sled sways from side to side, entirely independent of them. In going off the main road to get
a little more snow on a side track, I discovered this fact by overturning the sled, and pitching
Braisted and myself out on our heads. There were lakes on either side, and we made many miles
on the hard ice, which split with a dull sound under us. Long after dark, we reached the next
station, Stråtjära, and found our horses in readiness. We started again, by the gleam of a
flashing aurora, going through forests and fields in the uncertain light, blindly following
our leader, Braisted and I driving by turns, and already much fatigued. After a long time,
we descended a steep hill, to the Ljusne River. The water foamed and thundered under the bridge,
and I could barely see that it fell in a series of rapids over the rocks.

At Mo Myskie, which we reached at eight o'clock, our horses had been ready four hours, which
gave us a dollar banco väntapenningar (waiting money) to pay. The landlord, a sturdy, jolly
fellow, with grizzly hair and a prosperous abdomen, asked if we were French, and I addressed
him in that language. He answered in English on finding that we were Americans. On his saying
that he had learned English in Tripoli, I addressed him in Arabic. His eyes flashed, he burst
into a roaring laugh of the profoundest delight, and at once answered in the majestic gutturals
of the Orient. "Allah akhbar!" he cried; "I have been waiting twenty years for some one to
speak to me in Arabic, and you are the first!" He afterwards changed to Italian, which he spoke
perfectly well, and preferred to any foreign language. We were detained half an hour by his
delight, and went off forgetting to pay for a bottle of beer, the price of which I sent back
by the skjutsbonde, or postillion.

This skjutsbonde was a stupid fellow, who took us a long, circuitous road, in order to save
time. We hurried along in the darkness, constantly crying out "Kör på!" (Drive on!) and narrowly
missing a hundred overturns. It was eleven at night before we reached the inn at Kungsgården,
where, fortunately, the people were awake, and the pleasant old landlady soon had our horses
ready. We had yet sixteen English miles to Bro, our lodging-place, where we should have arrived
by eight o'clock. I hardly know how to describe the journey. We were half asleep, tired out,
nearly frozen, (mercury below zero) and dashed along at haphazard, through vast dark forests,
up hill and down, following the sleepy boy who drove ahead with our baggage. A dozen times
the sled, swaying from side to side like a pendulum, tilted, hung in suspense a second, and
then righted itself again. The boy fell back on the hay and slept, until Braisted, creeping
up behind, startled him with terrific yells in his ears. Away then dashed the horse, down steep
declivities, across open, cultivated valleys, and into the woods again. After midnight the
moon rose, and the cold was intenser than ever. The boy having fallen asleep again, the horse
took advantage of it to run off at full speed, we following at the same rate, sometimes losing
sight of him and uncertain of our way, until, after a chase of a few miles, we found the boy
getting his reins out from under the runners. Finally, after two in the morning, we reached Bro.

Here we had ordered a warm room, beds and supper, by förbud, but found neither. A sleepy, stupid
girl, who had just got up to wait on a captain who had arrived before us and was going on,
told us there was nothing to be had. "We must eat, if we have to eat you," I said, savagely,
for we were chilled through and fierce with hunger; but I might as well have tried to hurry
the Venus de Medici. At last we got some cold sausage, a fire, and two couches, on which we
lay down without undressing, and slept. I had scarcely closed my eyes, it seemed, when the
girl, who was to call us at half-past five o'clock, came into the room. "Is it half-past five?"
I asked. "Oh, yes," she coolly answered, "it's much more." We were obliged to hurry off at
once to avoid paying so much waiting money.

At sunrise we passed Hudiksvall, a pretty town at the head of a deep bay, in which several
vessels were frozen up for the winter. There were some handsome country houses in the vicinity,
better cultivation, more taste in building, and a few apple and cherry orchards. The mercury
was still at zero, but we suffered less from the cold than the day previous, and began to enjoy
our mode of travel. The horses were ready at all the stations on our arrival, and we were not
delayed in changing. There was now plenty of snow, and the roads were splendid--the country
undulating, with beautiful, deep valleys, separated by high, wooded hills, and rising to bold
ridges in the interior. The houses were larger and better than we had yet seen--so were the
people--and there was a general air of progress and well-doing. In fact, both country and population
improved in appearance as we went northward.

The night set in very dark and cold, threatening snow. We had an elephant of a horse, which
kicked up his heels and frisked like an awkward bull-pup, dashed down the hills like an avalanche,
and carried us forward at a rapid rate. We coiled ourselves up in the hay, kept warm, and trusted
our safety to Providence, for it was impossible to see the road, and we could barely distinguish
the other sled, a dark speck before us. The old horse soon exhausted his enthusiasm. Braisted
lost the whip, and the zealous boy ahead stopped every now and then to hurry us on. The aurora
gleamed but faintly through the clouds; we were nearly overcome with sleep and fatigue, but
took turns in arousing and amusing each other. The sled vibrated continually from side to side,
and finally went over, spilling ourselves and our guns into a snow-bank. The horse stopped
and waited for us, and then went on until the shafts came off. Toward ten o'clock, the lights
of Sundsvall appeared, and we soon afterwards drove into the yard of the inn, having made one
hundred and fifty-five miles in two days. We were wretchedly tired, and hungry as bears, but
found room in an adjoining house, and succeeded in getting a supper of reindeer steak. I fell
asleep in my chair, before my pipe was half-finished, and awoke the next morning to a sense
of real fatigue. I had had enough of travelling by förbud.

CHAPTER IV.

A SLEIGH RIDE THROUGH NORRLAND.

Sundsvall is a pretty little town of two or three thousand inhabitants, situated at the head
of a broad and magnificent bay. It is the eastern terminus of the only post-road across the
mountains to Trondhjem (Drontheim) in Norway, which passes through the extensive province of
Jemteland. It is, consequently, a lively and bustling place, and has a considerable coasting
trade. The day after our arrival was market-day, and hundreds of the Norrlanders thronged the
streets and public square. They were all fresh, strong, coarse, honest, healthy people--the
men with long yellow hair, large noses and blue eyes, the women with the rosiest of checks
and the fullest development of body and limb. Many of the latter wore basques or jackets of
sheepskin with the wool inside, striped petticoats and bright red stockings. The men were dressed
in shaggy sheepskin coats, or garments of reindeer skin, with the hair outward. There was a
vast collection of low Norrland sleds, laden with butter, cheese, hay, and wild game, and drawn
by the rough and tough little horses of the country. Here was still plenty of life and animation,
although we were already so far north that the sun did not shine upon Sundsvall the whole day,
being hidden by a low hill to the south. The snowy ridges on the north, however, wore a bright
roseate blush from his rays, from ten until two.

We called upon a merchant of the place, to whom I had a letter of introduction. He was almost
the only man I met before undertaking the journey, who encouraged me to push on. "The people
in Stockholm," said he, "know nothing about Northern Sweden." He advised me to give up travelling
by förbud, to purchase a couple of sleds, and take our chance of finding horses: we would have
no trouble in making from forty to fifty English miles per day. On returning to the inn, I
made the landlord understand what we wanted, but could not understand him in return. At this
juncture came in a handsome fellow; with a cosmopolitan air, whom Braisted recognised, by certain
invisible signs, as the mate of a ship, and who explained the matter in very good English.
I purchased two plain but light and strongly made sleds for 50 rigs (about $14), which seemed
very cheap, but I afterwards learned that I paid much more than the current price.

On repacking our effects, we found that everything liquid was frozen--even a camphorated mixture,
which had been carefully wrapped in flannel. The cold, therefore, must have been much more
severe than we supposed. Our supplies, also, were considerably damaged--the lantern broken,
a powder-flask cracked, and the salt, shot, nails, wadding, &c., mixed together in beautiful
confusion. Everything was stowed in one of the sleds, which was driven by the postilion; the
other contained only our two selves. We were off the next morning, as the first streaks of
dawn appeared in the sky. The roads about Sundsvall were very much cut up, and even before
getting out of the town we were pitched over head and ears into a snow-bank.

We climbed slowly up and darted headlong down the ridges which descend from the west toward
the Bothnian Gulf, dividing its tributary rivers; and toward sunrise, came to a broad bay,
completely frozen over and turned into a snowy plain. With some difficulty the skjutsbonde
made me understand that a shorter road led across the ice to the second post-station, Fjäl,
avoiding one change of horses. The way was rough enough at first, over heaped blocks of ice,
but became smoother where the wind had full sweep, and had cleared the water before it froze.
Our road was marked out by a double row of young fir-trees, planted in the ice. The bay was
completely land-locked, embraced by a bold sweep of wooded hills, with rich, populous valleys
between. Before us, three or four miles across, lay the little port of Wifsta-warf, where several
vessels--among them a ship of three or four hundred tuns--were frozen in for the winter. We
crossed, ascended a long hill, and drove on through fir woods to Fjäl, a little hamlet with
a large inn. Here we got breakfast; and though it may be in bad taste to speak of what one
eats, the breakfast was in such good taste that I cannot pass over it without lingering to
enjoy, in memory, its wonderful aroma. Besides, if it be true, as some shockingly gross persons
assert, that the belly is a more important district of the human economy than the brain, a
good meal deserves chronicling no less than an exalted impression. Certain it is, that strong
digestive are to be preferred to strong thinking powers--better live unknown than die of dyspepsia.
This was our first country meal in Norrland, of whose fare the Stockholmers have a horror,
yet that stately capital never furnished a better. We had beefsteak and onions, delicious blood-puddings,
the tenderest of pancakes (no omelette soufflée could be more fragile), with ruby raspberry
jam, and a bottle of genuine English porter. If you think the bill of fare too heavy and solid,
take a drive of fifteen miles in the regions of Zero, and then let your delicate stomach decide.

In a picturesque dell near Fjäl we crossed the rapid Indal River, which comes down from the
mountains of Norway. The country was wild and broken, with occasional superb views over frozen
arms of the Gulf, and the deep rich valleys stretching inland. Leaving Hernösand, the capital
of the province, a few miles to our right, we kept the main northern road, slowly advancing
from station to station with old and tired horses. There was a snow-storm in the afternoon,
after which the sky came out splendidly clear, and gorgeous with the long northern twilight.
In the silence of the hour and the deepening shadows of the forest through which we drove,
it was startling to hear, all at once the sound of voices singing a solemn hymn. My first idea
was, that some of those fanatical Dissenters of Norrland who meet, as once the Scotch Covenanters,
among the hills, were having a refreshing winter meeting in the woods; but on proceeding further
we found that the choristers were a company of peasants returning from market with their empty
sleds.

It was already dark at four o'clock, and our last horses were so slow that the postilion, a
handsome, lively boy, whose pride was a little touched by my remonstrances, failed, in spite
of all his efforts, to bring us to the station before seven. We stopped at Weda, on the Angermann
River, the largest stream in Northern Sweden. Angermannland, the country which it drains, is
said to be a very wild and beautiful region, where some traces of the old, original Asiatic
type which peopled Scandinavia are yet to be traced in the features of its secluded population.
At Weda, we found excellent quarters. A neat, quiet, old-fashioned little servant-girl, of
twelve or fourteen, took charge of us, and attended to all our wants with the greatest assiduity.
We had a good supper, a small but neat room, clean beds, and coffee in the morning, beside
a plentiful provision for breakfast on the way, for a sum equal to seventy-five cents.

We left at half-past seven, the waning moon hanging on the horizon, and the first almost imperceptible
signs of the morning twilight in the east. The Angermann River which is here a mile broad,
was frozen, and our road led directly across its surface. The wind blew down it, across the
snow-covered ice, making our faces tingle with premonitory signs of freezing, as the mercury
was a little below zero. My hands were chilled inside the fur mittens, and I was obliged to
rub my nose frequently, to prevent it from being nipped. The day was raw and chilly, and the
temperature rose very little, although the hills occasionally sheltered us from the wind. The
scenery, also, grew darker and wilder as we advanced. The fir-trees were shorter and stunted,
and of a dark greenish-brown, which at a little distance appeared completely black. Nothing
could exceed the bleak, inhospitable character of these landscapes. The inlets of the Bothnian
Gulf were hard, snow-covered plains, inclosed by bold, rugged headlands, covered with ink-black
forests. The more distant ridges faded into a dull indigo hue, flecked with patches of ghastly
white, under the lowering, sullen, short-lived daylight.

Our road was much rougher than hitherto. We climbed long ridges, only to descend by as steep
declivities on the northern side, to cross the bed of an inland stream, and then ascend again.
The valleys, however, were inhabited and apparently well cultivated, for the houses were large
and comfortable, and the people had a thrifty, prosperous and satisfied air. Beside the farmhouses
were immense racks, twenty feet high, for the purpose of drying flax and grain, and at the
stations the people offered for sale very fine and beautiful linen of their own manufacture.
This is the staple production of Norrland, where the short summers are frequently insufficient
to mature the grain crops. The inns were all comfortable buildings, with very fair accommodations
for travellers. We had bad luck with horses this day, however, two or three travellers having
been in advance and had the pick. On one stage our baggage-sled was driven by a poike of not
more than ten years old--a darling fellow, with a face as round, fresh and sweet as a damask
rose, the bluest of eyes, and a cloud of silky golden hair. His successor was a tall, lazy
lout, who stopped so frequently to talk with the drivers of sleds behind us, that we lost all
patience, drove past and pushed ahead in the darkness, trusting our horse to find the way.
His horse followed, leaving him in the lurch, and we gave him a long-winded chase astern before
we allowed him to overtake us. This so exasperated him that we had no trouble the rest of the
way. Mem.--If you wish to travel with speed, make your postilion angry.

At Hörnäs they gave us a supper of ale and cold pig's feet, admirable beds, and were only deficient
in the matter of water for washing. We awoke with headaches, on account of gas from the tight
Russian stove. The temperature, at starting, was 22° below zero--colder than either of us had
ever before known. We were a little curious, at first, to know how we should endure it, but,
to our delight, found ourselves quite warm and comfortable. The air was still, dry, and delicious
to inhale. My nose occasionally required friction, and my beard and moustache became a solid
mass of ice, frozen together so that I could scarcely open my mouth, and firmly fastened to
my fur collar. We travelled forty-nine miles, and were twelve hours on the way, yet felt no
inconvenience from the temperature.

