The Captain was to set off on the fourth day, to purchase or seize some hay and grain that
were stacked at neighboring farms. We prepared to go at eight o'clock, but were detained somewhat
by reason of Skyhiski being inebriated the night before, and thereby delaying the breakfast,
and afterward the fact that the black stallion had laid open the black-boy's leg. However,
at a quarter past nine, the Captain, Sergeant Clover, Fogg, Owen, and myself, with six four-horse
wagons, filed down the railroad track until we came to a bridge that some laborers were repairing,
where we turned to the left through some soggy fields, and forded Difficult Creek. As there
was no road to follow, we kept straight through a wood of young maples and chestnut-trees.
Occasionally a trunk or projecting branch stopped the wagons, when the teamsters opened the
way with their axes. After two hours of slow advance, we came to the end of the wood, and climbed
a succession of hilly fields. From the summit of the last of these, a splendid sweep of farm
country was revealed, dotted with quaint Virginia dwellings, stackyards, and negro-cabins,
and divided by miles of tortuous worm-fence. The eyes of the Quartermaster brightened at the
prospect, though I am afraid that he thought only of the abundant forage; but my own grew hazy
as I spoke of the peaceful people and the neglected fields. The plough had furrowed none of
these acres, and some crows, that screamed gutturally from a neighboring ash-tree, seemed lean
and pinched for lack of their plunder of corn.

Many of the dwellings were guarded by soldiers; but of the resident citizens only the women
and the old men remained. I did not need to ask where the young men were exiled. The residue
that prayed with their faces toward Richmond, told me the story with their eyes. There was,
nevertheless, no melodramatic exhibition of feeling among the bereaved. I did not see any defiant
postures, nor hear any melting apostrophies. Marius was not mouthing by the ruins of Carthage,
nor even Rachel weeping for her Hebrew children. But there were on every hand manifestations
of adherence to the Southern cause, except among a few males who feared unutterable things,
and were disposed to cringe and prevaricate. The women were not generally handsome; their face
was indolent, their dress slovenly, and their manner embarrassed. They lopped off the beginnings
and the ends of their sentences, generally commencing with a verb, as thus: "Told soldiers
not to carr' off the rye; declared they would; said they bound do jest what they pleased. Let
'em go!"

The Captain stopped at a spruce residence, approached by a long lane, and on knocking at the
porch with his ponderous fist, a woman came timidly to the kitchen window.

"Who's thar?" she said, after a moment.

"Come out young woman," said the Captain, soothingly; "we don't intend to murder or rob you,
ma'am!"

There dropped from the doorsill into the yard, not one, but three young women, followed by
a very deaf old man, who appeared to think that the Captain's visit bore some reference to
the hencoop.

"I wish to buy for the use of the United States Government," said the Captain, "some stacks
of hay and corn fodder, that lie in one of your fields."

"The last hen was toted off this morning before breakfast," said the old man; "they took the
turkeys yesterday, and I was obliged to kill the ducks or I shouldn't have had anything to eat."

Here Fogg so misdemeaned himself, as to laugh through his nose, and the man Clover appeared
to be suddenly interested in something that lay in a mulberry-tree opposite.

"I am provided with money to pay liberally for your produce, and you cannot do better than
to let me take the stacks: leaving you, of course, enough for your own horses and cattle."

Here the old man pricked up his ears, and said that he hadn't heard of any recent battle; for
his part, he had never been a politician; but thought that both parties were a little wrong;
and wished that peace would return: for he was a very old man, and was sorry that folks couldn't
let quiet folks' property alone. How far his garrulity might have betrayed him, could be conjectured
only by one of the girls taking his hand and leading him submissively into the house.

The eldest daughter said that the Captain might take the stacks at his own valuation, but trusted
to his honor as a soldier, and as he seemed, a gentleman, to deal justly by them. There could
be no crop harvested for a twelvemonth, and beggary looked them in the face. I have never beheld
anything more chivalrously gallant, than the sturdy old quartermaster's attitude. He blended
in tone and face the politeness of a diplomat and the gentleness of a father. They asked him
to return to the house, with his officers, when he had loaded the wagons; for dinner was being
prepared, and they hoped that Virginians could be hospitable, even to their enemies. As to
the hay and fodder, none need be left; for the Confederates had seized their horses some months
before, and driven off their cows when they retired from the neighborhood.

I so admired the queer gables and great brick ovens of the house, that I resolved to tie my
horse, and rest under the crooked porch. The eldest young lady had taken me to be a prisoner,
and was greatly astonished that the Quartermaster permitted me to go at large. She asked me
to have a chair in the parlor, but when I made my appearance there, the two younger sisters
fled precipitately. The old man was shaking his head sadly by the fireplace. Some logs burned
on the andirons with a red flame. The furniture consisted of a mahogany sideboard, table, and
chairs,--ponderous in pattern; and a series of family portraits, in a sprawling style of art,
smirked and postured on the wall. The floor was bare, but shone by reason of repeated scrubbing,
and the black mantel-piece was a fine specimen of colonial carving in the staunchest of walnut-wood.

Directly the two younger girls--though the youngest must have been twenty years of age--came
back with averted eyes and the silliest of giggles. They sat a little distance apart, and occasionally
nodded or signalled like school children.

"Wish you would stop, Bell!" said one of these misses,--whose flaxen hair was plastered across
her eyebrows, and who was very tall and slender.

"See if I don't tell on you," said the other,--a dark miss with roguish eyes and fat, plump
figure, and curls that shook ever so merrily about her shoulders.

"Declar' I never said so, if he asks me; declar' I will."

"Tell on you,--you see! Won't he be jealous? How he will car' on!"

I made out that these young ladies were intent upon publishing their obligations to certain
sweethearts of theirs, who, as it afterward seemed, were in the army at Manassas Junction.
I said to the curly-haired miss, that she was endangering the life of her enamored; for it
would become an object with all the anxious troops in the vicinity to shorten his days. The
old man roused up here, and remarked that his health certainly was declining; but he hoped
to survive a while longer for the sake of his children; that he was no politician, and always
said that the negroes were very ungrateful people. He caught his daughter's eye finally, and
cowered stupidly, nodding at the fire.

I remarked to the eldest young woman,--called Prissy (Priscilla) by her sister,--that the country
hereabout was pleasantly wooded. She said, in substance, that every part of Virginia was beautiful,
and that she did not wish to survive the disgrace of the old commonwealth.

"Become right down hateful since Yankees invaded it!" exclaimed Miss Bell. "Some Yankee's handsome
sister," said Miss Bessie, the proprietor of the curls, "think some Yankees puffick gentlemen!"

"Oh, you traitor!" said the other,--"wish Henry heard you say that!"

Miss Bell intimated that she should take the first opportunity of telling him the same, and
I eulogized her good judgment. Priscilla now begged to be excused for a moment, as, since the
flight of the negro property, the care of the table had devolved mainly upon her. A single
aged servant, too feeble or too faithful to decamp, still attended to the menial functions,
and two mulatto children remained to relieve them of light labor. She was a dignified, matronly
young lady, and, as one of the sisters informed me, plighted to a Major in the Confederate
service. The others chattered flippantly for an hour, and said that the old place was dreadfully
lonesome of late. Miss Bell was sure she should die if another winter, similar to the last,
occurred. She loved company, and had always found it so lively in Loudon before; whereas she
had positively been but twice to a neighbor's for a twelvemonth, and had quite forgotten the
road to the mill. She said, finally, that, rather than undergo another such isolation, she
would become a Vivandiere in the Yankee army. The slender sister was altogether wedded to the
idea of her lover's. "Wouldn't she tell Henry? and shouldn't she write to Jeems? and oh, Bessie,
you would not dare to repeat that before him." In short, I was at first amused, and afterwards
annoyed, by this young lady, whereas the roguish-eyed miss improved greatly upon acquaintance.

After a while, Captain Kingwalt came in, trailing his spurs over the floor, and leaving sunshine
in his wake. There was something galvanic in his gentleness, and infectious in his merriment.
He told them at dinner of his own daughters on the Brandywine, and invented stories of Fogg's
courtships, till that young gentleman first blushed, and afterward dropped his plate. Our meal
was a frugal one, consisting mainly of the ducks referred to, some vegetables, corn-bread,
and coffee made of wasted rye. There were neither sugar, spices, nor tea, on the premises,
and the salt before us was the last in the dwelling. The Captain promised to send them both
coffee and salt, and Fogg volunteered to bring the same to the house, whereat the Captain teased
him till he left the table.

At this time, a little boy, who was ostensibly a waiter, cried: "Miss Prissy, soldiers is climbin'
in de hog-pen."

"I knew we should lose the last living thing on the property," said this young lady, much distressed.

The Captain went to the door, and found three strolling Bucktails looking covetously at the
swine. They were a little discomposed at his appearance, and edged off suspiciously.

"Halt!" said the old man in his great voice, "where are you men going?"

"Just makin' reconnoissance," said one of the freebooters; "s'pose a feller has a right to
walk around, hain't he?"

"Not unless he has a pass," said the Quartermaster; "have you written permission to leave camp?"

"Left'nant s'posed we might. Don't know as it's your business. Never see you in the regiment."

"It is my business, as an officer of the United States, to see that no soldier strays from
camp unauthorizedly, or depredates upon private property. I will take your names, and report
you, first for straggling, secondly for insolence!"

"Put to it, Bill!" said the speaker of the foragers; "run, Bob! go it hearties!" And they took
to their heels, cleared a pair of fences, and were lost behind some outbuildings. The Captain
could be harsh as well as generous, and was about mounting his horse impulsively, to overtake
and punish the fugitives, when Priscilla begged him to refrain, as an enforcement of discipline
on his part might bring insult upon her helpless household. I availed myself of a pause in
the Captain's wrath, to ask Miss Priscilla if she would allow me to lodge in the dwelling.
Five nights' experience in camp had somewhat reduced my enthusiasm, and I already wearied of
the damp beds, the hard fare, and the coarse conversation of the bivouac. The young lady assented
willingly, as she stated that the presence of a young man would both amuse and protect the
family. For several nights she had not slept, and had imagined footsteps on the porch and the
drawing of window-bolts. There was a bed, formerly occupied by her brother, that I might take,
but must depend upon rather laggard attendance. I had the satisfaction, therefore, of seeing
the Captain and retinue mount their horses, and wave me a temporary good by. Poor Fogg looked
back so often and so seriously that I expected to see him fall from the saddle. The young ladies
were much impressed with the Captain's manliness, and Miss Bell wondered how such a puffick
gentleman could reconcile himself to the Yankee cause. She had felt a desire to speak to him
upon that point as she was sure he was of fine stock, and entirely averse to the invasion of
such territory as that of dear old Virginia. There was something in his manner that so reminded
her of some one who should be nameless for the present; but the "nameless" was, of course,
young, handsome, and so brave. I ruthlessly dissipated her theory of the Captain's origin,
by stating that he was of humble German descent, so far as I knew, and had probably never beheld
Virginia till preceded by the bayonets of his neighbors.

After tea Miss Bessie produced a pitcher of rare cider, that came from a certain mysterious
quarter of the cellar. A chessboard was forthcoming at a later hour, when we amused ourselves
with a couple of games, facetiously dubbing our chessman Federals and Confederates. Miss Bell,
meanwhile, betook herself to a diary, wherein she minutely related the incidents and sentiments
of successive days. The quantity of words underscored in the same autobiography would have
speedily exhausted the case of italics, if the printer had obtained it. I was so beguiled by
these patriarchal people, that I several times asked myself if the circumstances were real.
Was I in a hostile country, surrounded by thousands of armed men? Were the incidents of this
evening portions of an historic era, and the ground about me to be commemorated by bloodshed?
Was this, in fact, revolution, and were these simple country girls and their lovers revolutionists?
The logs burned cheerily upon the hearth, and the ancestral portraits glowered contemplatively
from the walls. Miss Prissy looked dreamily into the fire, and the old man snored wheezily
in a corner. A gray cat purred in Miss Bell's lap, and Miss Bessie was writing some nonsense
in my note-book.

A sharp knock fell upon the door, and something that sounded like the butt of a musket shook
the porch without. The girls turned pale, and I think that Miss Bessie seized my arm and clung
to it. I think also, that Miss Bell attempted to take the other arm, to which I demurred.

"Those brutal soldiers again!" said Priscilla, faintly.

"I think one of the andirons has fallen down, darter!" said the old man, rousing up.

"Tremble for my life," said Miss Bell; "sure shall die if it's a man."

I opened the door after a little pause, when a couple of rough privates in uniform confronted me.

"We're two guards that General Meade sent to protect the house and property," said the tallest
of these men; "might a feller come in and warm his feet!"

I understood at once that the Quartermaster had obtained these persons; and the other man coming
forward, said--

"I fetched some coffee over, and a bag o' salt, with Corporal Fogg's compliments."

They deposited their muskets in a corner, and balanced their boots on the fender. Nothing was
said for a time.

"Did you lose yer poultry?" said the tall man, at length.

"All," said Miss Priscilla.

"Fellers loves poultry!" said the man, smacking his lips.

"Did you lose yer sheep?" said the same man, after a little silence.

"The Bucktails cut their throats the first day that they encamped at the mill," said Miss Priscilla.

"Them Bucktails great fellers," said the tall man; "them Bucktails awful on sheep: they loves
'em so!"

He relapsed again for a few minutes, when he continued: "You don't like fellers to bag yer
poultry and sheep, do you?"

Miss Priscilla replied that it was both dishonest and cruel. Miss Bell intimated that none
but Yankees would do it.

"P'raps not," said the tall soldier, drily; "did you ever grub on fat pork, Miss? No? Did you
ever gnaw yer hard tack after a spell o' sickness, and a ten-hour march? No? P'raps you might
like a streak o' mutton arterwards! P'raps you might take a notion for a couple o' chickens
or so! No? How's that, Ike? What do you think, pardner? (to me) I ain't over and above cruel,
mum. I don't think the Bucktails is over and above dishonest to home, mum. But, gosh hang it,
I think I would bag a chicken any day! I say that above board. Hey, Ike?"

When the tall man and his inferior satellite had warmed their boots till they smoked, they
rose, recovered their muskets, and bowed themselves into the yard. Soon afterward I bade the
young ladies good night, and repaired to my room. The tall man and his associate were pacing
up and down the grass-plot, and they looked very cold and comfortless, I thought. I should
have liked to obtain for them a draught of cider, but prudently abstained; for every man in
the army would thereby become cognizant of its existence. So I placed my head once more upon
a soft pillow, and pitied the chilled soldiers who slept upon the turf. I thought of Miss Bessie
with her roguish eyes, and wondered what themes were now engrossing her. I asked myself if
this was the romance of war, and if it would bear relating to one's children when he grew as
old and as deaf as the wheezy gentleman down-stairs. In fine, I was a little sentimental, somewhat
reflective, and very drowsy. So, after a while, processions of freebooting soldiers, foraging
Quartermasters, deaf gentlemen, Fogg's regiment, and multitudes of ghosts from Manassas, drifted
by in my dreams. And, in the end, Miss Bessie's long curls brushed into my eyes, and I found
the morning, ruddy as her cheeks, blushing at the window.

CHAPTER V.

WHAT A MARCH IS IN FACT.

I found at breakfast, that Miss Bessie had been placed beside me, and I so far forgot myself
as to forget all other persons at the table. Miss Priscilla asked to be helped to the corn-bread,
and I deposited a quantity of the same upon Miss Bessie's plate. Miss Bell asked if I did not
love dear old Virginia, and I replied to Miss Bessie that it had lately become very attractive,
and that, in fact, I was decidedly rebellious in my sympathy with the distressed Virginians.
I did except, however, the man darkly mooted as "Henry," and hoped that he would be disfigured--not
killed--at the earliest engagement. The deaf old gentleman bristled up here and asked who had
been killed at the recent engagement. There was a man named Jeems Lee,--a distant connection
of the Lightfoots,--not the Hampshire Lightfoots, but the Fauquier Lightfoots,--who had distinctly
appeared to the old gentleman for several nights, robed in black, and carrying a coffin under
his arm. Since I had mentioned his name, he recalled the circumstance, and hoped that Jeems
Lightfoot had not disgraced his ancestry. Nevertheless, the deaf gentleman was not to be understood
as expressing any opinion upon the merits of the war. For his part he thought both sides a
little wrong, and the crops were really in a dreadful state. The negroes were very ungrateful
people and property should be held sacred by all belligerents.

At this point he caught Miss Priscilla's eye, and was transfixed with conscious guilt.

I had, meantime, been infringing upon Miss Bessie's feet,--very pretty feet they were!--which
expressive but not very refined method of correspondence caused her to blush to the eyes. Miss
Bell, noticing the same, was determined to tell 'Henry' at once, and I hoped in my heart that
she would set out for Manassas to further that purpose.

The door opened here, and the rubicund visage of Mr. Fogg appeared like the head of the Medusa.
He said that 'Captain' had ordered the blue roan to be saddled and brought over to me, but
I knew that this was a cunning device on his part, to revisit the dwelling. Miss Bell, somehow
caught the idea that Fogg was enamored of her, and the poor fellow was subjected to a volley
of tender innuendos and languishing glances, that by turn mortified and enraged him.

I bade the good people adieu at eight o'clock, promising to return for dinner at five; and
Miss Bessie accompanied me to the lane, where I took leave of her with a secret whisper and
a warm grasp of the hand. One of her rings had somehow adhered to my finger, which Fogg remarked
with a bilious expression of countenance. I had no sooner got astride of the blue roan than
he darted off like the wind, and subjected me to great terror, alternating to chagrin, when
I turned back and beheld all the young ladies waving their handkerchiefs. They evidently thought
me an unrivalled equestrian.

I rode to a picket post two miles from the mill, passing over the spot where the Confederate
soldier had fallen. The picket consisted of two companies or one hundred and sixty men. Half
of them were sitting around a fire concealed in the woods, and the rest were scattered along
the edges of a piece of close timber. I climbed a lookout-tree by means of cross-strips nailed
to the trunk, and beheld from the summit a long succession of hazy hills, valleys, and forests,
with the Blue Ridge Mountains bounding the distance, like some mighty monster, enclosing the
world in its coils. This was the country of the enemy, and a Lieutenant obligingly pointed
out to me the curling smoke of their pickets, a few miles away. The cleft of Manassas was plainly
visible, and I traced the line of the Gap Railway to its junction with the Orange and Alexandria
road, below Bull Run. For aught that I knew, some concealed observer might now be watching
me from the pine-tops on the nearest knoll. Some rifleman might be running his practised eye
down the deadly groove, to topple me from my perch, and send me crashing through the boughs.
The uncertainty, the hazard, the novelty of my position had at this time an indescribable charm:
but subsequent exposures dissipated the romance and taught me the folly of such adventures.

The afternoon went dryly by: for a drizzling rain fell at noon; but at four o'clock I saddled
the blue roan and went to ride with Fogg. We retraced the road to Colonel T----s, and crossing
a boggy brook, turned up the hills and passed toward the Potomac. Fogg had been a schoolmaster,
and many of his narrations indicated keen perception and clever comprehension. He so amused
me on this particular occasion that I quite forgot my engagement for dinner, and unwittingly
strolled beyond the farthest brigade.

Suddenly, we heard a bugle-call from the picket-post before us, and, at the same moment, the
drums beat from the camp behind. Our horses pricked up their ears and Fogg stared inquiringly.
As we turned back we heard approaching hoofs and the blue roan exhibited intentions of running
away. I pulled his rein in vain. He would neither be soothed nor commanded. A whole company
of cavalry closed up with him at length, and the sabres clattered in their scabbards as they
galloped toward camp at the top of their speed. With a spring that almost shook me from the
saddle and drove the stirrups flying from my feet, the blue roan dashed the dust into the eyes
of Fogg, and led the race.

Not the wild yager on his gait to perdition, rode so fearfully. Trees, bogs, huts, bushes,
went by like lightning. The hot breath of the nag rose to my nostrils and at every leap I seemed
vaulting among the spheres.

I speak thus flippantly now, of what was then the agony of death. I grasped the pommel of my
saddle, mechanically winding the lines about my wrist, and clung with the tenacity of sin clutching
the world. Some soldiers looked wonderingly from the wayside, but did not heed my shriek of
"stop him, for God's sake!" A ditch crossed the lane,--deep and wide,--and I felt that my moment
had come: with a spring that seemed to break thew and sinew, the blue roan cleared it, pitching
upon his knees, but recovered directly and darted onward again. I knew that I should fall headlong
now, to be trampled by the fierce horsemen behind, but retained my grasp though my heart was
choking me. The camps were in confusion as I swept past them. A sharp clearness of sense and
thought enabled me to note distinctly the minutest occurrences. I marked long lines of men
cloaked, and carrying knapsacks, drummer-boys beating music that I had whistled in many a ramble,--field-officers
shouting orders from their saddles, and cannon limbered up as if ready to move,--tents taken
down and teams waiting to be loaded; all the evidences of an advance, that I alas should never
witness, lying bruised and mangled by the roadside. A cheer saluted me as I passed some of
Meade's regiments. "It is the scout that fetched the orders for an advance!" said several,
and one man remarked that "that feller was the most reckless rider he had ever beheld." The
crisis came at length: a wagon had stopped the way; my horse in turning it, stepped upon a
stake, and slipping rolled heavily upon his side, tossing me like an acrobat, over his head,
but without further injury than a terrible nervous shock and a rent in my pantaloons.

I employed a small boy to lead the blue roan to Captain Kingwalt's quarters, and as I limped
wearily after, some regiments came toward me through the fields. General McCall responded to
my salute; he rode in the advance. The Quartermaster's party was loading the tents and utensils.
The rain fell smartly as dusk deepened into night, and the brush tents now deserted by the
soldiers, were set on fire. Being composed of dry combustible material, they burned rapidly
and with an intense flame. The fields in every direction were revealed, swarming with men,
horses, batteries, and wagons. Some of the regiments began the march in silence; others sang
familiar ballads as they moved in column. A few, riotously disposed, shrieked, whistled, and
cheered. The standards were folded; the drums did not mark time; the orders were few and short.
The cannoneers sat moodily upon the caissons, and the cavalry-men walked their horses sedately.
Although fifteen thousand men comprised the whole corps, each of its three brigades would have
seemed as numerous to a novice. The teams of each brigade closed up the rear, and a quartermaster's
guard was detailed from each regiment to march beside its own wagons. When the troops were
fairly under way, and the brush burning along from continuous miles of road, the effect was
grand beyond all that I had witnessed. The country people gathered in fright at the cottage
doors, and the farm-dogs bayed dismally at the unwonted scene. I refused to ride the blue roan
again, but transferred my saddle to a team horse that appeared to be given to a sort of equine
somnambulism, and once or twice attempted to lie down by the roadside. At nine o'clock I set
out with Fogg, who slipped a flask of spirits into my haversack. Following the tardy movement
of the teams, we turned our faces toward Washington. I was soon wet to the skin, and my saddle
cushion was soaking with water. The streams crossing the road were swollen with rain, and the
great team wheels clogged on the slimy banks. We were sometimes delayed a half hour by a single
wagon, the storm beating pitilessly in our faces the while. During the stoppages, the Quartermaster's
guards burned all the fence rails in the vicinity, and some of the more indurated sat round
the fagots and gamed with cards.

Cold, taciturn, miserable, I thought of the quiet farm, house, the ruddy hearth-place, and
the smoking supper. I wondered if the roguish eyes were not a little sad, and the trim feet
a little restless, the chessmen somewhat stupid, and the good old house a trifle lonesome.
Alas! the intimacy so pleasantly commenced, was never to be renewed. With the thousand and
one airy palaces that youth builds and time annihilates, my first romance of war towered to
the stars in a day, and crumbled to earth in a night.

At two o'clock in the morning we halted at Metropolitan Mills, on the Alexandria and Leesburg
turnpike. A bridge had been destroyed below, and the creek was so swollen that neither artillery
nor cavalry could ford it. The meadows were submerged and the rain still descended in torrents.
The chilled troops made bonfires of some new panel fence, and stormed all the henroosts in
the vicinity. Some pigs, that betrayed their whereabouts by inoportune whines and grunts, were
speedily confiscated, slaughtered, and spitted. We erected our tarpaulin in a ploughed field,
and Fogg laid some sharp rails upon the ground to make us a dry bed. Skyhiski fried a quantity
of fresh beef, and boiled some coffee; but while we ate heartily, theorizing as to the destination
of the corps, the poor Captain was terribly shaken by his ague.

I woke in the morning with inflamed throat, rheumatic limbs, and every indication of chills
and fever. Fogg whispered to me at breakfast that two men of Reynold's brigade had died during
the night, from fatigue and exposure. He advised me to push forward to Washington and await
the arrival of the division, as, unused to the hardships of a march, I might, after another
day's experience, become dangerously ill. I set out at five o'clock, resolving to ford the
creek, resume the turnpike, and reach Long Bridge at noon. Passing over some dozen fields in
which my horse at every step sank to the fetlocks, I travelled along the brink of the stream
till I finally reached a place that seemed to be shallow. Bracing myself firmly in the saddle,
I urged my unwilling horse into the waters, and emerged half drowned on the other side. It
happened, however, that I had crossed only a branch of the creek and gained an island. The
main channel was yet to be attempted, and I saw that it was deep, broad, and violent. I followed
the margin despairingly for a half-mile, when I came to a log footbridge, where I dismounted
and swam my horse through the turbulent waters. I had now so far diverged from the turnpike
that I was at a loss to recover it, but straying forlornly through the woods, struck a wagon
track at last, and pursued it hopefully, until, to my confusion, it resolved itself to two
tracks, that went in contrary directions. My horse preferred taking to the left, but after
riding a full hour, I came to some felled trees, beyond which the traces did not go. Returning,
weak and bewildered, I adopted the discarded route, which led me to a worm-fence at the edge
of the woods. A house lay some distance off, but a wheat-field intervened, and I might bring
the vengeance of the proprietor upon me by invading his domain. There was no choice, however;
so I removed the rails, and rode directly across the wheat to some negro quarters, a little
removed from the mansion. They were deserted, all save one, where a black boy was singing some
negro hymns in an uproarious manner. The words, as I made them out, were these:--

    "Stephen came a runnin',
      His Marster fur to see;
    But Gabriel says he is not yar';
      He gone to Calvary!
          O,--O,--Stephen, Stephen,
                Fur to see;
          Stephen, Stephen, get along up Calvary!"

I learned from this person two mortifying facts,--that I was farther from Washington than at
the beginning of my journey, and that the morrow was Sunday. War, alas! knows no Sabbaths,
and the negro said, apologetically--

"I was a seyin' some ole hymns, young Mars'r. Sence dis yer war we don't have no more meetin's,
and a body mos' forgits his pra'rs. Dere hain't been no church in all Fairfax, sah, fur nigh
six months."

Washington was nineteen miles distant, and another creek was to be forded before gaining the
turnpike. The negro sauntered down the lane, and opened the gate for me. "You jes keep from
de creek, take de mill road, and enqua' as ye get furder up," said he; "it's mighty easy, sah,
an' you can't miss de way."

I missed the way at once, however, by confounding the mill road with the mill lane, and a shaggy
dog that lay in a wagon shed pursued me about a mile. The road was full of mire; no dwellings
adjoined it, and nothing human was to be seen in any direction. I came to a crumbling negro
cabin after two plodding hours, and, seeing a figure flit by the window, called aloud for information.
Nobody replied, and when, dismounting, I looked into the den, it was, to my confusion, vacant.

The soil, hereabout, was of a sterile red clay, spotted with scrub cedars. Country more bleak
and desolate I have never known, and when, at noon, the rain ceased, a keen wind blew dismally
across the barriers. I reached a turnpike at length, and, turning, as I thought, toward Alexandria,
goaded my horse into a canter. An hour's ride brought me to a wretched hamlet, whose designation
I inquired of a cadaverous old woman--

"Drainesville," said she.

"Then I am not upon the Alexandria turnpike?"

"No. You're sot for Leesburg. This is the Georgetown and Chain Bridge road."

With a heavy heart, I retraced my steps, crossed Chain Bridge at five o'clock, and halted at
Kirkwood's at seven. After dinner, falling in with the manager of the Washington Sunday morning
Chronicle, I penned, at his request, a few lines relative to the movements of the Reserves;
and, learning in the morning that they had arrived at Alexandria, set out on horseback for
that city.

Many hamlets and towns have been destroyed during the war. But, of all that in some form survive,
Alexandria has most suffered. It has been in the uninterrupted possession of the Federals for
twenty-two months, and has become essentially a military city. Its streets, its docks, its
warehouses, its dwellings, and its suburbs, have been absorbed to the thousand uses of war.

I was challenged thrice on the Long Bridge, and five times on the road, before reaching the
city. I rode under the shadows of five earthworks, and saw lines of white tents sweeping to
the horizon. Gayly caparisoned officers passed me, to spend their Sabbath in Washington, and
trains laden with troops, ambulances, and batteries, sped along the line of railway, toward
the rendezvous at Alexandria. A wagoner, looking forlornly at his splintered wheels; a slovenly
guard, watching some bales of hay; a sombre negro, dozing upon his mule; a slatternly Irish
woman gossiping with a sergeant at her cottage door; a sutler in his "dear-born," running his
keen eye down the limbs of my beast; a spruce civilian riding for curiosity; a gray-haired
gentleman, in a threadbare suit, going to camp on foot, to say good by to his boy,--these were
some of the personages that I remarked, and each was a study, a sermon, and a story. The Potomac,
below me, was dotted with steamers and shipping. The bluffs above were trodden bare, and a
line of dismal marsh bordered some stagnant pools that blistered at their bases. At points
along the river-shore, troops were embarking on board steamers; transports were taking in tons
of baggage and subsistence. There was a schooner, laden to the water-line with locomotive engines
and burden carriages; there, a brig, shipping artillery horses by a steam derrick, that lifted
them bodily from the shore and deposited them in the hold of the vessel. Steamers, from whose
spacious saloons the tourist and the bride have watched the picturesque margin of the Hudson,
were now black with clusters of rollicking volunteers, who climbed into the yards, and pitched
headlong from the wheel-houses. The "grand movement," for which the people had waited so long,
and which McClellan had promised so often, was at length to be made. The Army of the Potomac
was to be transferred to Fortress Monroe, at the foot of the Chesapeake, and to advance by
the peninsula of the James and the York, upon the city of Richmond.

I rode through Washington Street, the seat of some ancient residences, and found it lined with
freshly arrived troops. The grave-slabs in a fine old churchyard were strewn with weary cavalry-men,
and they lay in some side yards, soundly sleeping. Some artillery-men chatted at doorsteps,
with idle house-girls; some courtesans flaunted in furs and ostrich feathers, through a group
of coarse engineers; some sergeants of artillery, in red trimmings, and caps gilded with cannon,
were reining their horses to leer at some ladies, who were taking the air in their gardens;
and at a wide place in the street, a Provost-Major was manoeuvring some companies, to the sound
of the drum and fife. There was much drunkenness, among both soldiers and civilians; and the
people of Alexandria were, in many cases, crushed and demoralized by reason of their troubles.
One man of this sort led me to a sawmill, now run by Government, and pointed to the implements.

"I bought 'em and earned 'em," he said. "My labor and enterprise set 'em there; and while my
mill and machinery are ruined to fill the pockets o' Federal sharpers, I go drunk, ragged,
and poor about the streets o' my native town. My daughter starves in Richmond; God knows I
can't get to her. I wish to h----l I was dead."

Further inquiry developed the facts that my acquaintance had been a thriving builder, who had
dotted all Northeastern Virginia with evidences of his handicraft. At the commencement of the
war, he took certain contracts from the Confederate government, for the construction of barracks
at Richmond and Manassas Junction; returning inopportunely to Alexandria, he was arrested,
and kept some time in Capitol-Hill prison; he had not taken the oath of allegiance, consequently,
he could obtain no recompense for the loss of his mill property. Domestic misfortunes, happening
at the same time, so embittered his days that he resorted to dissipation. Alexandria is filled
with like ruined people; they walk as strangers through their ancient streets, and their property
is no longer theirs to possess, but has passed into the hands of the dominant nationalists.
My informant pointed out the residences of many leading citizens: some were now hospitals,
others armories and arsenals; others offices for inspectors, superintendents, and civil officials.
The few people that remained upon their properties, obtained partial immunity, by courting
the acquaintance of Federal officers, and, in many cases, extending the hospitalities of their
homes to the invaders. I do not know that any Federal functionary was accused of tyranny, or
wantonness, but these things ensued, as the natural results of civil war; and one's sympathies
were everywhere enlisted for the poor, the exiled, and the bereaved.

My dinner at the City Hotel was scant and badly prepared. I gave a negro lad who waited upon
me a few cents, but a burly negro carver, who seemed to be his father, boxed the boy's ears
and put the coppers into his pocket. The proprietor of the place had voluntarily taken the
oath of allegiance, and had made more money since the date of Federal occupation than during
his whole life previously. He said to me, curtly, that if by any chance the Confederates should
reoccupy Alexandria, he could very well afford to relinquish his property. He employed a smart
barkeeper, who led guests by a retired way to the drinking-rooms. Here, with the gas burning
at a taper point, cobblers, cocktails, and juleps were mixed stealthily and swallowed in the
darkness. The bar was like a mint to the proprietor; he only feared discovery and prohibition.
It would not accord with the chaste pages of this narrative to tell how some of the noblest
residences in Alexandria had been desecrated to licentious purposes; nor how, by night, the
parlors of cosey homes flamed with riot and orgie. I stayed but a little time, having written
an indiscreet paragraph in the Washington Chronicle, for which I was pursued by the War Department,
and the management of my paper, lacking heart, I went home in a pet.

CHAPTER VI.

DOWN THE CHESAPEAKE.

Disappointed in the unlucky termination of my adventures afield, I now looked ambitiously toward
New York. As London stands to the provinces, so stands the empire city to America. Its journals
circulate by hundreds of thousands; its means are only rivalled by its enterprise; it is the
end of every young American's aspiration, and the New Bohemia for the restless, the brilliant,
and the industrious. It seemed a great way off when I first beheld it, but I did not therefore
despair. Small matters of news that I gathered in my modest city, obtained space in the columns
of the great metropolitan journal, the----. After a time I was delegated to travel in search
of special incidents, and finally, when the noted Tennessee Unionist, "Parson" Brownlow, journeyed
eastward, I joined his suite, and accompanied him to New York. The dream of many months now
came to be realized. A correspondent on the ----'s staff had been derelict, and I was appointed
to his division. His horse, saddle, field-glasses, blankets, and pistols were to be transferred,
and I was to proceed without delay to Fortress Monroe, to keep with the advancing columns of
McClellan.

At six in the morning I embarked; at eleven I was whirled through my own city, without a glimpse
of my friends; at three o'clock I dismounted at Baltimore, and at five was gliding down the
Patapsco, under the shadows of Fort Federal Hill, and the white walls of Fort McHenry. The
latter defence is renowned for its gallant resistance to a British fleet in 1813, and the American
national anthem, "The Star-Spangled Banner," was written to commemorate that bombardment. Fort
Carroll, a massive structure of hewn stone, with arched bomb-proof and three tiers of mounted
ordnance, its smooth walls washed by the waves, and its unfinished floors still ringing with
the trowel and the adze,--lies some miles below, at a narrow passage in the stream. Below,
the shores diverge, and at dusk we were fairly in the Chesapeake, under steam and sail, speeding
due southward.

The Adelaide was one of a series of boats making daily trips between Baltimore and Old Point.
Fourteen hours were required to accomplish the passage, and we were not to arrive till seven
o'clock next morning. I was so fortunate as to obtain a state-room, but many passengers were
obliged to sleep upon sofas or the cabin floor. These boats monopolized the civil traffic between
the North and the army, although they were reputed to be owned and managed by Secessionists.
None were allowed to embark unless provided with Federal passes; but there were, nevertheless,
three or four hundred people on board. About one fourth of these were officers and soldiers;
one half sutlers, traders, contractors, newsmen, and idle civilians, anxious to witness a battle,
or stroll over the fields of Big Bethel, Lee's Mills, Yorktown, Gloucester, Williamsburg, or
West Point; the rest were females on missions of mercy, on visits to sons, brothers, and husbands,
and on the way to their homes at Norfolk, Suffolk, or Hampton. Some of these were citizens
of Richmond, who believed that the Federals would occupy the city in a few days, and enable
them to resume their professions and homes. The lower decks were occupied by negroes. The boat
was heavily freighted, and among the parcels that littered the hold and steerage, I noticed
scores of box coffins for the removal of corpses from the field to the North. There were quantities
of spirits, consigned mainly to Quartermasters, but evidently the property of certain Shylocks,
who watched the barrels greedily. An embalmer was also on board, with his ghostly implements.
He was a sallow man, shabbily attired, and appeared to look at all the passengers as so many
subjects for the development of his art. He was called "Doctor" by his admirers, and conversed
in the blandest manner of the triumphs of his system.

"There are certain pretenders," he said, "who are at this moment imposing upon the Government.
I regret that it is necessary to repeat it, but the fact exists that the Government is the
prey of harpies. And in the art of which I am an humble disciple,--that of injecting, commonly
called embalming,--the frauds are most deplorable. There was Major Montague,--a splendid subject,
I assure you,--a subject that any Professor would have beautifully preserved,--a subject that
one esteems it a favor to obtain,--a subject that I in particular would have been proud to
receive! But what were the circumstances? I do assure you that a person named Wigwart,--who
I have since ascertained to be a veterinary butcher; in plain language, a doctor of horses
and asses,--imposed upon the relatives of the deceased, obtained the body, and absolutely ruined
it!--absolutely mangled it! I may say, shamefully disfigured it! He was a man, sir, six feet
two,--about your height, I think! (to a bystander.) About your weight, also! Indeed quite like
you! And allow me to say that, if you should fall into my hands, I would leave your friends
no cause for offence! (Here the bystander trembled perceptibly, and I thought that the doctor
was about to take his life.) Well! I should have operated thus:--"

Then followed a description of the process, narrated with horrible circumstantiality. A fluid
holding in solution pounded glass and certain chemicals, was, by the doctor's "system," injected
into the bloodvessels, and the subject at the same time bled at the neck. The body thus became
hard and stony, and would retain its form for years. He had, by his account, experimented for
a lifetime, and said that little "Willie," the son of President Lincoln, had been so preserved
that his fond parents must have enjoyed his decease.

It seemed to me that the late lamented practitioners, Messrs. Burke and Hare, were likely to
fade into insignificance, beside this new light of science.

I went upon deck for some moments, and marked the beating of the waves; the glitter of sea-lights
pulsing on the ripples; the sweep of belated gulls through the creaking rigging; the dark hull
of a passing vessel with a grinning topmast lantern; the vigilant pilot, whose eyes glared
like a fiend's upon the waste of blackness; the foam that the panting screw threw against the
cabin windows; the flap of fishes caught in the threads of moonlight; the depths over which
one bent, peering half wistfully, half abstractedly, almost crazily, till he longed to drop
into their coolness, and let the volumes of billow roll musically above him.

A woman approached me, as I stood against the great anchor, thus absorbed. She had a pale,
thin face, and was scantily clothed, and spoke with a distrustful, timorous voice:--

"You don't know the name of the surgeon-general, do you sir!"

"At Washington, ma'am?"

"No, sir; at Old Point."

I offered to inquire of the Captain: but she stopped me, agitatedly. "It's of no consequence,"
she said,--"that is, it is of great consequence to me; but perhaps it would be best to wait."
I answered, as obligingly as I could, that any service on my part would be cheerfully rendered.

"The fact is, sir," she said, after a pause, "I am going to Williamsburg, to--find--the--the
body--of my--boy."

Here her speech was broken, and she put a thin, white hand tremulously to her eyes. I thought
that any person in the Federal service would willingly assist her, and said so.

"He was not a Federal soldier, sir. He was a Confederate!"

This considerably altered the chances of success, and I was obliged to undeceive her somewhat.
"I am sure it was not my fault," she continued, "that he joined the Rebellion. You don't think
they'll refuse to let me take his bones to Baltimore, do you, sir? He was my oldest boy, and
his brother, my second son, was killed at Ball's Bluff: He was in the Federal service. I hardly
think they will refuse me the poor favor of laying them in the same grave."

I spoke of the difficulty of recognition, of the remoteness of the field, and of the expense
attending the recovery of any remains, particularly those of the enemy, that, left hastily
behind in retreat, were commonly buried in trenches without headboard or record. She said,
sadly, that she had very little money, and that she could barely afford the journey to the
Fortress and return. But she esteemed her means well invested if her object could be attained.

"They were both brave boys, sir; but I could never get them to agree politically. William was
a Northerner by education, and took up with the New England views, and James was in business
at Richmond when the war commenced. So he joined the Southern army. It's a sad thing to know
that one's children died enemies, isn't it? And what troubles me more than all, sir, is that
James was at Ball's Bluff where his brother fell. It makes me shudder to think, sometimes,
that his might have been the ball that killed him."

The tremor of the poor creature here was painful to behold. I spoke soothingly and encouragingly,
but with a presentiment that she must be disappointed. While I was speaking the supper-bell
rang, and I proposed to get her a seat at the table.

"No, thank you," she replied, "I shall take no meals on the vessel; I must travel economically,
and have prepared some lunch that will serve me. Good by, sir!"

Poor mothers looking for dead sons! God help them! I have met them often since; but the figure
of that pale, frail creature flitting about the open deck,--alone, hungry, very poor,--troubles
me still, as I write. I found, afterward, that she had denied herself a state-room, and intended
to sleep in a saloon chair. I persuaded her to accept my berth, but a German, who occupied
the same apartment, was unwilling to relinquish his bed, and I had the power only to give her
my pillow.

Supper was spread in the forecabin, and at the signal to assemble the men rushed to the tables
like as many beasts of prey. A captain opposite me bolted a whole mackerel in a twinkling,
and spread the half-pound of butter that was to serve the entire vicinity upon a single slice
of bread. A sutler beside me reached his fork across my neck, and plucked a young chicken bodily,
which he ate, to the great disgust of some others who were eyeing it. The waiter advanced with
some steak, but before he reached the table, a couple of Zouaves dragged it from the tray,
and laughed brutally at their success. The motion of the vessel caused a general unsteadiness,
and it was absolutely dangerous to move one's coffee to his lips. The inveterate hate with
which corporations are regarded in America was here evidenced by a general desire to empty
the ship's larder.

"Eat all you can," said a soldier, ferociously,--"fare's amazin' high. Must make it out in grub."

"I always gorges," said another, "on a railroad or a steamboat. Cause why? You must eat out
your passage, you know!"

Among the passengers were a young officer and his bride. They had been married only a few days,
and she had obtained permission to accompany him to Old Point. Very pretty, she seemed, in
her travelling hat and flowing robes; and he wore a handsome new uniform with prodigious shoulder-bars.
There was a piano in the saloon, where another young lady of the party performed during the
evening, and the bride and groom accompanied her with a song. It was the popular Federal parody
of "Gay and Happy:"

    "Then let the South fling aloft what it will,--
    We are for the Union still!
        For the Union! For the Union!
    We are for the Union still!"

The bride and groom sang alternate stanzas, and the concourse of soldiers, civilians, and females
swelled the chorus. The reserve being thus broken, the young officer sang the "Star-Spangled
Banner," and the refrain must have called up the mermaids. Dancing ensued, and a soldier volunteered
a hornpipe. A young man with an astonishing compass of lungs repeated something from Shakespeare,
and the night passed by gleefully and reputably. One could hardly realize, in the cheerful
eyes and active figures of the dance, the sad uncertainties of the time. Youth trips lightest,
somehow, on the brink of the grave.

The hilarities of the evening so influenced the German quartered with me, that he sang snatches
of foreign ballads during most of the night, and obliged me, at last, to call the steward and
insist upon his good behavior.

In the gray of the morning I ventured on deck, and, following the silvery line of beach, made
out the shipping at anchor in Hampton Roads. The Minnesota flag-ship lay across the horizon,
and after a time I remarked the low walls and black derricks of the Rip Raps. The white tents
at Hampton were then revealed, and finally I distinguished Fortress Monroe, the key of the
Chesapeake, bristling with guns, and floating the Federal flag. As we rounded to off the quay,
I studied with intense interest the scene of so many historic events. Sewall's Point lay to
the south, a stretch of woody beach, around whose western tip the dreaded Merrimac had so often
moved slowly to the encounter. The spars of the Congress and the Cumberland still floated along
the strand, but, like them, the invulnerable monster had become the prey of the waves. The
guns of the Rip Raps and the terrible broadsides of the Federal gunboats, had swept the Confederates
from Sewall's Point,--their flag and battery were gone,--and farther seaward, at Willoughby
Spit, some figures upon the beach marked the route of the victorious Federals to the city of
Norfolk.

The mouth of the James and the York were visible from the deck, and long lines of shipping
stretched from each to the Fortress. The quay itself was like the pool in the Thames, a mass
of spars, smoke-stacks, ensigns and swelling hills. The low deck and quaint cupola of the famous
Monitor appeared close into shore, and near at hand rose the thick body of the Galena. Long
boats and flat boats went hither and thither across the blue waves: the grim ports of the men
of war were open and the guns frowned darkly from their coverts; the seamen were gathering
for muster on the flagship, and drums beat from the barracks on shore; the Lincoln gun, a fearful
piece of ordnance, rose like the Sphynx from the Fortress sands, and the sodded parapet, the
winding stone walls, the tops of the brick quarters within the Fort, were some of the features
of a strangely animated scene, that has yet to be perpetuated upon canvas, and made historic.

At eight o'clock the passengers were allowed to land, and a provost guard marched them to the
Hygeia House,--of old a watering-place hotel,--where, by groups, they were ushered into a small
room, and the oath of allegiance administered to them. The young officer who officiated, repeated
the words of the oath, with a broad grin upon his face, and the passengers were required to
assent by word and by gesture. Among those who took the oath in this way, was a very old sailor,
who had been in the Federal service for the better part of his life, and whose five sons were
now in the army. He called "Amen" very loudly and fervently, and there was some perceptible
disposition on the part of other ardent patriots, to celebrate the occasion with three cheers.
The quartermaster, stationed at the Fortress gave me a pass to go by steamer up the York to
White House, and as there were three hours to elapse before departure, I strolled about the
place with our agent. In times of peace, Old Point was simply a stone fortification, and one
of the strongest of its kind in the world. Many years and many millions of dollars were required
to build it, but it was, in general, feebly garrisoned, and was, altogether, a stupid, tedious
locality, except in the bathing months, when the beauty and fashion of Virginia resorted to
its hotel. A few cottages had grown up around it, tenanted only in "the season;" and a little
way off, on the mainland, stood the pretty village of Hampton.

By a strange oversight, the South failed to seize Fortress Monroe at the beginning of the Rebellion;
the Federals soon made it the basis for their armies and a leading naval station. The battle
of Big Bethel was one of the first occurrences in the vicinity. Then the dwellings of Hampton
were burned and its people exiled. In rapid succession followed the naval battles in the Roads,
the siege and surrender of Yorktown, the flight of the Confederates up the Peninsula to Richmond,
and finally the battles of Williamsburg, and West Point, and the capture of Norfolk. These
things had already transpired; it was now the month of May; and the victorious army, following
up its vantages, had pursued the fugitives by land and water to "White House," at the head
of navigation on the Pamunkey river. Thither it was my lot to go, and witness the turning-point
of their fortunes, and their subsequent calamity and repulse.

I found Old Point a weary place of resort, even in the busy era of civil war. The bar at the
Hygeia House was beset with thirsty and idle people, who swore instinctively, and drank raw
spirits passionately. The quantity of shell, ball, ordnance, camp equipage, and war munitions
of every description piled around the fort, was marvellously great. It seemed to me that Xerxes,
the first Napoleon, or the greediest of conquerors, ancient or modern, would have beheld with
amazement the gigantic preparations at command of the Federal Government. Energy and enterprise
displayed their implements of death on every hand. One was startled at the prodigal outlay
of means, and the reckless summoning of men. I looked at the starred and striped ensign that
flaunted above the Fort, and thought of Madame Roland's appeal to the statue by the guillotine.

The settlers were numbered by regiments here. Their places of business were mainly structures
or "shanties" of rough plank, and most of them were the owners of sloops, or schooners, for
the transportation of freight from New York, Philadelphia, or Baltimore, to their depots at
Old Point. Some possessed a dozen wagons, that plied regularly between these stores and camps.
The traffic was not confined to men; for women and children kept pace with the army, trading
in every possible article of necessity or luxury. For these--disciples of the dime and the
dollar--war had no terrors. They took their muck-rakes, like the man in Bunyan, and gathered
the almighty coppers, from the pestilential camp and the reeking battle-field.

CHAPTER VII.

ON TO RICHMOND.

Yorktown lies twenty-one miles northwestward from Old Point, and thither I turned my face at
noon, resolving to delay my journey to "White House," till next day morning. Crossing an estuary
of the bay upon a narrow causeway, I passed Hampton,--half burned, half desolate,--and at three
o'clock came to "Big Bethel," the scene of the battle of June 11, 1861. A small earthwork marks
the site of Magruder's field-pieces, and hard by the slain were buried. The spot was noteworthy
to me, since Lieutenant Greble, a fellow alumnus, had perished here, and likewise, Theodore
Winthrop, the gifted author of "Cecil Dreeme" and "John Brent." The latter did not live to
know his exaltation. That morning never came whereon he "woke, and found himself famous."

The road ran parallel with the deserted defences of the Confederates for some distance. The
country was flat and full of swamps, but marked at intervals by relics of camps. The farm-houses
were untenanted, the fences laid flat or destroyed, the fields strewn with discarded clothing,
arms, and utensils. By and by, we entered the outer line of Federal parallels, and wound among
lunettes, crémaillères, redoubts, and rifle-pits. Marks of shell and ball were frequent, in
furrows and holes, where the clay had been upheaved. Every foot of ground, for fifteen miles
henceforward, had been touched by the shovel and the pick. My companion suggested that as much
digging, concentred upon one point, would have taken the Federals to China. The sappers and
miners had made their stealthy trenches, rod by rod, each morning appearing closer to their
adversaries, and finally, completed their work, at less than a hundred yards from the Confederate
defences. Three minutes would have sufficed from the final position, to hurl columns upon the
opposing outworks, and sweep them with the bayonet. Ten days only had elapsed since the evacuation
(May 4), and the siege guns still remained in some of the batteries. McClellan worshipped great
ordnance, and some of his columbiads, that were mounted in the water battery, yawned cavernously
through their embrasures, and might have furnished sleeping accommodations to the gunners.
A few mortars stood in position by the river side, and there were Parrott, Griffin, and Dahlgren
pieces in the shore batteries.

However numerous and powerful were the Federal fortifications, they bore no comparison, in
either respect, to those relinquished by the revolutionists. Miniature mountain ranges they
seemed, deeply ditched, and revetted with sods, fascines, hurdles, gabions or sand bags. Along
the York riverside there were water batteries of surpassing beauty, that seemed, at a little
distance, successions of gentle terraces. Their pieces were likewise of enormous calibre, and
their number almost incredible. The advanced line of fortifications, sketched from the mouth
of Warwick creek, on the South, to a point fifteen miles distant on the York: one hundred and
forty guns were planted along this chain of defences; but there were two other concentric lines,
mounting, each, one hundred and twenty, and two hundred and forty guns. The remote series consisted
of six forts of massive size and height, fronted by swamps and flooded meadows, with frequent
creeks and ravines interposing; sharp fraise and abattis planted against scarp and slope, pointed
cruelly eastward. There were two water batteries, of six and four thirty-two columbiads respectively,
and the town itself, which stands upon a red clay bluff, was encircled by a series of immense
rifled and smooth-bore pieces, including a powerful pivot-gun, that one of McClellan's shells
struck during the first day's bombardment, and split it into fragments. At Gloucester Point,
across the York river, the great guns of the Merrimac were planted, it is said, and a fleet
of fire-rafts and torpedo-ships were moored in the stream. By all accounts, there could have
been no less than five hundred guns behind the Confederate entrenchments, the greater portion,
of course, field-pieces, and, as the defending army was composed of one hundred thousand men,
we must add that number of small arms to the list of ordnance. If we compute the Federals at
so high a figure,--and they could scarcely have had less than a hundred thousand men afield,--we
must increase the enormous amount of their field, siege, and small ordnance, by the naval guns
of the fleet, that stood anchored in the bay. It is probable that a thousand cannon and two
hundred thousand muskets were assembled in and around Yorktown during this memorable siege.
The mind shudders to see the terrible deductions of these statistics. The monster, who wished
that the world had but one neck, that he might sever it, would have gloated at such realization!
How many days or hours would have here sufficed to annihilate all the races of men? Happily,
the world was spared the spectacle of these deadly mouths at once aflame. Beautiful but awful
must have been the scene, and the earth must have staggered with the shock. One might almost
have imagined that man, in his ambition, had shut his God in heaven, and besieged him there.

While the fortifications defending it amazed me, the village of Yorktown disappointed me. I
marvelled that so paltry a settlement should have been twice made historic. Here, in the year
1783, Lord Cornwallis surrendered his starving command to the American colonists and their
French allies. But the entrenchments of that earlier day had been almost obliterated by these
recent labors. The field, where the Earl delivered up his sword, was trodden bare, and dotted
with ditches and ramparts; while a small monument, that marked the event, had been hacked to
fragments by the Southerners, and carried away piecemeal. Yet, strange to say, relics of the
first bombardment had just been discovered, and, among them, a gold-hilted sword.

I visited, in the evening, the late quarters of General Hill, a small white house with green
shutters, and also the famous "Nelson House," a roomy mansion where, of old, Cornwallis slept,
and where, a few days past, Jefferson Davis and General Lee had held with Magruder, and his
associates, a council of war. It had been also used for hospital purposes, but some negroes
were now the only occupants.

The Confederates left behind them seventy spiked and shattered cannon, some powder, and a few
splintered wagons; but in all material respects, their evacuation was thorough and creditable.
Some deserters took the first tidings of the retreat to the astonished Federals, and they raised
the national flag within the fortifications, in the gray of the morning of the 4th of May.
Many negroes also escaped the vigilance of their taskmasters, and remained to welcome the victors.
The fine works of Yorktown are monuments to negro labor, for they were the hewers and the diggers.
Every slave-owner in Eastern Virginia was obliged to send one half of his male servants between
the ages of sixteen and fifty to the Confederate camps, and they were organized into gangs
and set to work. In some cases they were put to military service and made excellent sharpshooters.
The last gun discharged from the town was said to have been fired by a negro.

I slept on board a barge at the wharf that evening, and my dreams ran upon a thousand themes.
To every American this was hallowed ground. It had been celebrated by the pencil of Trumbull,
the pen of Franklin, and the eloquence of Jefferson. Scarce eighty years had elapsed since
those great minds established a fraternal government; but the site of their crowning glory
was now the scene of their children's shame. Discord had stolen upon their councils and blood
had profaned their shrine.

I visited next day a bomb-proof postern, or subterranean passage, connecting the citadel with
the outworks, and loitered about the fortifications till noon, when I took passage on the mail
steamer, which left the Fortress at eleven o'clock, and reached White House at dusk the same
evening. The whole river as I ascended was filled with merchant and naval craft. They made
a continuous line from Old Point to the mouth of York River, and the masts and spars environing
Yorktown and Gloucester, reminded one of a scene on the Mersey or the Clyde. At West Point,
there was an array of shipping scarcely less formidable, and the windings of the interminably
crooked Pamunkey were marked for leagues by sails, smoke-stacks, and masts. The landings and
wharves were besieged by flat-boats and sloops, and Zouaves were hoisting forage and commissary
stores up the red bluffs at every turn of our vessel.

The Pamunkey was a beautiful stream, densely wooded, and occasional vistas opened up along
its borders of wheat-fields and meadows, with Virginia farm-houses and negro quarters on the
hilltops. Some of the houses on the river banks appeared to be tenanted by white people, but
the majority had a haunted, desolate appearance, the only signs of life being strolling soldiers,
who thrust their legs through the second story windows, or contemplated the river from the
chimney-tops, and groups of negroes who sunned themselves on the piazza, or rushed to the margin
to gaze and grin at the passing steamers. There were occasional residences not unworthy of
old manorial and baronial times, and these were attended at a little distance by negro quarters
of logs, arranged in rows, and provided with mud chimneys built against their gables. Few of
the Northern navigable rivers were so picturesque and varied.

We passed two Confederate gunboats, that had been half completed, and burned on the stocks.
Their charred elbows and ribs, stared out, like the remains of some extinct monsters; a little
delay might have found each of them armed and manned, and carrying havoc upon the rivers and
the seas. West Point was simply a tongue, or spit of land, dividing the Mattapony from the
Pamunkey river at their junction; a few houses were built upon the shallow, and some wharves,
half demolished, marked the terminus of the York and Richmond railroad. A paltry water-battery
was the sole defence. Below Cumberland (a collection of huts and a wharf), a number of schooners
had been sunk across the river, and, with the aid of an island in the middle, these constituted
a rather rigid blockade. The steamboat passed through, steering carefully, but some sailing
vessels that followed required to be towed between the narrow apertures. The tops only of the
sunken masts could be discerned above the surface, and much time and labor must have been required
to place the boats in line and sink them. Vessels were counted by scores above and below this
blockade, and at Cumberland the masts were like a forest; clusters of pontoons were here anchored
in the river, and a short distance below we found three of the light-draught Federal gunboats
moored in the stream. It was growing dark as we rounded to at "White House;" the camp fires
of the grand army lit up the sky, and edged the tree-boughs on the margin with ribands of silver.
Some drums beat in the distance; sentries paced the strand; the hum of men, and the lowing
of commissary cattle, were borne towards us confusedly; soldiers were bathing in the river;
team-horses were drinking at the brink; a throng of motley people were crowding about the landing
to receive the papers and mails. I had at last arrived at the seat of war, and my ambition
to chronicle battles and bloodshed was about to be gratified.

At first, I was troubled to make my way; the tents had just been pitched; none knew the location
of divisions other than their own, and it was now so dark that I did not care to venture far.
After a vain attempt to find some flat-boats where there were lodgings and meals to be had,
I struck out for general head-quarters, and, undergoing repeated snubbings from pert members
of staff, fell in at length, with a very tall, spare, and angular young officer, who spoke
broken English, and who heard my inquiries, courteously; he stepped into General Marcy's tent,
but the Chief of Staff did not know the direction of Smith's division; he then repaired to
Gen. Van Vleet, the chief Quartermaster, but with ill success. A party of officers were smoking
under a "fly," and some of these called to him, thus--

"Captain! Duke! De Chartres! What do you wish?"

It was, then, the Orleans Prince who had befriended me, and I had the good fortune to hear
that the division, of which I was in search, lay a half mile up the river. I never spoke to
the Bourbon afterward, but saw him often; and that he was as chivalrous as he was kind, all
testimony proved.

A private escorted me to a Captain Mott's tent, and this officer introduced me to General Hancock.
I was at once invited to mess with the General's staff, and in the course of an hour felt perfectly
at home. Hancock was one of the handsomest officers in the army; he had served in the Mexican
war, and was subsequently a Captain in the Quartermaster's department. But the Rebellion placed
stars in many shoulder-bars, and few were more worthily designated than this young Pennsylvanian.
His first laurels were gained at Williamsburg; but the story of a celebrated charge that won
him the day's applause, and McClellan's encomium of the "Superb Hancock," was altogether fictitious.
The musket, not the bayonet, gave him the victory. I may doubt, in this place, that any extensive
bayonet charge has been known during the war. Some have gone so far as to deny that the bayonet
has ever been used at all.

Hancock's regiments were the 5th Wisconsin, 49th Pennsylvanian, 43d New York, and 6th Maine.
They represented widely different characteristics, and I esteemed myself fortunate to obtain
a position where I could so eligibly study men, habits, and warfare. During the evening I fell
in with the Colonel of each of these regiments, and from the conversation that ensued, I gleaned
a fair idea of them all.

The Wisconsin regiment was from a new and ambitious State of the Northwest. The men were rough-mannered,
great-hearted farmers, wood-choppers, and tradesmen. They had all the impulsiveness of the
Yankee, with less selfishness, and quite as much bravery. The Colonel was named Cobb, and he
had held some leading offices in Wisconsin. A part of his life had been adventurously spent,
and he had participated in the Mexican war. He was an ardent Republican in politics, and had
been Speaker of a branch of the State Legislature. He was an attorney in a small county town
when the war commenced, and his name had been broached for the Governorship. In person he was
small, lithe, and capable of enduring great fatigue. His hair was a little gray, and he had
no beard. He did not respect appearances, and his sword, as I saw, was antique and quite different
in shape from the regulation weapon. He had penetrating gray eyes, and his manners were generally
reserved. One had not to regard him twice to see that he was both cautious and resolute. He
was too ambitious to be frank, and too passionate not to be brave. In the formula of learning
he was not always correct; but few were of quicker perception or more practical and philosophic.
He might not, in an emergency, be nicely scrupulous as to means, but he never wavered in respect
to objects. His will was the written law to his regiment, and I believed his executive abilities
superior to those of any officer in the brigade, not excepting the General's.

The New York regiment was commanded by a young officer named Vinton. He was not more than thirty-five
years of age, and was a graduate of the United States Military Academy. Passionately devoted
to engineering, he withdrew from the army, and passed five years in Paris, at the study of
his art. Returning homeward by way of the West Indies, he visited Honduras, and projected a
filibustering expedition to its shores from the States. While perfecting the design, the Rebellion
commenced, and his old patron, General Scott, secured him the colonelcy of a volunteer regiment.
He still cherished his scheme of "Colonization," and half of his men were promised to accompany
him. Personally, Colonel Vinton was straight, dark, and handsome. He was courteous, affable,
and brave,--but wedded to his peculiar views, and, as I thought, a thorough "Young American."

The Maine regiment was fathered by Colonel Burnham, a staunch old yeoman and soldier, who has
since been made a General. His probity and good-nature were adjuncts of his valor, and his
men were of the better class of New Englanders. The fourth regiment fell into the hands of
a lawyer from Lewistown, Pennsylvania. He had been also in the Mexican war, and was remarkable
mainly for strictness with regard to the sanitary regulations of his camps. He had wells dug
at every stoppage, and his tents were generally fenced and canopied with cedar arbors. General
Hancock's staff was composed of a number of young men, most of whom had been called from civil
life. His brigade constituted one of three commanded by General Smith. Four batteries were
annexed to the division so formed; the entire number of muskets was perhaps eight thousand.
The Chief of Artillery was a Captain Ayres, whose battery saved the three months' army at Bull
Run. It so happened that he came into the General's during the evening, and recited the particulars
of a gunboat excursion, thirty miles up the Pamunkey, wherein he had landed his men, and burned
a quantity of grain, some warehouses, and shipping. I pencilled the facts at once, made up
my letter, and mailed it early in the morning.

CHAPTER VIII.

RUSTICS IN REBELLION.

At White House, I met some of the mixed Indians and negroes from Indiantown Island, which lies
among the osiers in the stream. One of these ferried me over, and the people received me obsequiously,
touching their straw hats, and saying, "Sar, at your service!" They were all anxious to hear
something of the war, and asked, solicitously, if they were to be protected. Some of them had
been to Richmond the previous day, and gave me some unimportant items happening in the city.
I found that they had Richmond papers of that date, and purchased them for a few cents. They
knew little or nothing of their own history, and had preserved no traditions of their tribe.
There was, however, I understood, a very old woman extant, named "Mag," of great repute at
medicines, pow-wows, and divination. I expressed a desire to speak with her, and was conducted
to a log-house, more ricketty and ruined than any of the others. About fifty half-breeds followed
me in respectful curiosity, and they formed a semicircle around the cabin. The old woman sat
in the threshold, barefooted, and smoking a stump of clay pipe.

"Yaw's one o' dem Nawden soldiers, Aunt Mag!" said my conductor. "He wants to talk wid ye."

"Sot down, honey," said the old woman, producing a wooden stool; "is you a Yankee, honey? Does
you want you fauchun told by de ole 'oman?"

I perceived that the daughter of the Delawares smelt strongly of fire-water, and the fumes
of her calumet were most unwholesome. She was greatly disappointed that I did not require her
prophetic services, and said, appealingly--

"Why, sar, all de gen'elmen an' ladies from Richmond has dere fauchuns told. I tells 'em true.
All my fauchuns comes out true. Ain't dat so, chillen?"

A low murmur of assent ran round the group, and I was obviously losing caste in the settlement.

"Here is a dime," said I, "that I will give you, to tell me the result of the war. Shall the
North be victorious in the next battle? Will Richmond surrender within a week? Shall I take
my cigar at the Spotswood on Sunday fortnight?"

"I'se been a lookin' into dat," she said, cunningly; "I'se had dreams on dat ar'. Le'um see
how de armies stand!"

She brought from the house a cup of painted earthenware containing sediments of coffee. I saw
her crafty white eyes look up to mine as she muttered some jargon, and pretended to read the
arrangement of the grains.

"Honey," she said, "gi' me de money, and let de ole 'oman dream on it once mo'! It ain't quite
clar' yit, young massar. Tank you, honey! Tank you! Let de old 'oman dream! Let de ole 'oman
dream!"

She disappeared into the house, chuckling and chattering, and the sons of the forest, loitering
awhile, dispersed in various directions. As I followed my conductor to the riverside, and he
parted the close bushes and boughs to give us exit, the glare of the camp-fires broke all at
once upon us. The ship-lights quivered on the water; the figures of men moved to and fro before
the fagots; the stars peeped timorously from the vault; the woods and steep banks were blackly
shadowed in the river. Here was I, among the aborigines; and as my dusky acquaintance sent
his canoe skimming across the ripples, I thought how inexplicable were the decrees of Time
and the justice of God. Two races united in these people, and both of them we had wronged.
From the one we had taken lands; from the other liberties. Two centuries had now elapsed. But
the little remnant of the African and the American were to look from their Island Home upon
the clash of our armies and the murder of our braves.

By the 19th of May the skirts of the grand army had been gathered up, and on the 20th the march
to Richmond was resumed. The troops moved along two main roads, of which the right led to New
Mechanicsville and Meadow Bridges, and the left to the railroad and Bottom Bridges. My division
formed the right centre, and although the Chickahominy fords were but eighteen miles distant,
we did not reach them for three days. On the first night we encamped at Tunstalls, a railroad-station
on Black Creek; on the second at New Cold Harbor, a little country tavern, kept by a cripple;
and on the night of the third day at Hogan's farm, on the north hills of the Chickahominy.
The railroad was opened to Despatch Station at the same time, but the right and centre were
still compelled to "team" their supplies from White House. In the new position, the army extended
ten miles along the Chickahominy hills; and while the engineers were driving pile, tressel,
pontoon, and corduroy bridges, the cavalry was scouring the country, on both flanks, far and wide.

The advance was full of incident, and I learned to keep as far in front as possible, that I
might communicate with scouts, contrabands, and citizens. Many odd personages were revealed
to me at the farm-houses on the way, and I studied, with curious interest, the native Virginian
character. They appeared to be compounds of the cavalier and the boor. There was no old gentleman
who owned a thousand barren acres, spotted with scrub timber; who lived in a weather-beaten
barn, with a multiplicity of porch and a quantity of chimney; whose means bore no proportion
to his pride, and neither to his indolence,--that did not talk of his ancestry, proffer his
hospitality, and defy me to an argument. I was a civilian,--they had no hostility to me,--but
the blue-coats of the soldiers seared their eyeballs. In some cases their daughters remained
upon the property; but the sons and the negroes always fled,--though in contrary directions.
The old men used to peep through the windows at the passing columns; and as their gates were
wrenched from the hinges, their rails used to pry wagons out of the mud, their pump-handles
shaken till the buckets splintered in the shaft, and their barns invaded by greasy agrarians,
they walked to and fro, half-weakly, half-wrathfully, but with a pluck, fortitude, and devotion
that wrung my respect. Some aged negro women commonly remained, but these were rather incumbrances
than aids, and they used the family meal to cook bread for the troops. An old, toothless, grinning
African stood at every lane and gate, selling buttermilk and corn-cakes. Poor mortal, sinful
old women! They had worked for nothing through their three-score and ten, but avarice glared
from their shrivelled pupils, and their last but greatest delight lay in the coppers and the
dimes. One would have thought that they had outlived the greed of gold; but wages deferred
make the dying miserly.

The lords of the manors were troubled to know the number of our troops. For several days the
columns passed with their interminable teams, batteries, and adjuncts, and the old gentlemen
were loth to compute us at less than several millions.

"Why, look yonder," said one, pointing to a brigade; "I declar' to gracious, there ain't no
less than ten thousand in them!"

"Tousands an' tousands!" said a wondering negro at his elbow. "I wonda if dey'll take Richmond
dis yer day?"

Many of them hung white flags at their gate-posts, implying neutrality; but nobody displayed
the Federal colors. If there were any covert sympathizers with the purposes of the army, they
remembered the vengeance of the neighbors and made no demonstrations. There was a prodigious
number of stragglers from the Federal lines, as these were the bane of the country people.
They sauntered along by twos and threes, rambling into all the fields and green-apple orchards,
intruding their noses into old cabins, prying into smoke-houses, and cellars, looking at the
stock in the stables, and peeping on tiptoe into the windows of dwellings. These stragglers
were true exponents of Yankee character,--always wanting to know,--averse to discipline, eccentric
in their orbits, entertaining profound contempt for everything that was not up to the measure
of "to hum."

"Look here, Bill, I say!" said one, with a great grin on his face; "did you ever, neow! I swan!
they call that a plough down in these parts."

"Devilishest people I ever see!" said Bill, "stick their meetin'-houses square in the woods!
Build their chimneys first and move the houses up to 'em! All the houses breakin' out in perspiration
of porch! All their machinery with Noah in the ark! Pump the soil dry! Go to sleep a milkin'
a keow! Depend entirely on Providence and the nigger!"

There was a mill on the New Bridge road, ten miles from White House, with a tidy farm-house,
stacks, and cabins adjoining. The road crossed the mill-race by a log bridge, and a spreading
pond or dam lay to the left,--the water black as ink, the shore sandy, and the stream disappearing
in a grove of straight pines. A youngish woman, with several small children, occupied the dwelling,
and there remained, besides, her fat sister-in-law and four or five faithful negroes. I begged
the favor of a meal and bed in the place one night, and shall not forget the hospitable table
with its steaming biscuit; the chubby baby, perched upon his high stool; the talkative elderly
woman, who took snuff at the fireplace; the contented black-girl, who played the Hebe; and
above all, the trim, plump, pretty hostess, with her brown eyes and hair, her dignity and her
fondness, sitting at the head of the board. When she poured the bright coffee into the capacious
bowl, she revealed the neatest of hands and arms, and her dialect was softer and more musical
than that of most Southerners. In short, I fell almost in love with her; though she might have
been a younger playmate of my mother's, and though she was the wife of a Quartermaster in a
Virginia regiment. For, somehow, a woman seems very handsome when one is afield; and the contact
of rough soldiers, gives him a partiality for females. It must have required some courage to
remain upon the farm; but she hoped thereby to save the property from spoliation. I played
a game of whist with the sister-in-law, arguing all the while; and at nine o'clock the servant
produced some hard cider, shellbarks, and apples. We drank a cheery toast: "an early peace
and old fellowship!"--to which the wife added a sentiment of "always welcome," and the baby
laughed at her knee. How brightly glowed the fire! I wanted to linger for a week, a month,
a year,--as I do now, thinking it all over,--and when I strolled to the porch,--hearing the
pigeons cooing at the barn; the water streaming down the dam; the melancholy monotony of the
pine boughs;--there only lacked the humming mill-wheel, and the strong grip of the miller's
hand, to fill the void corner of one's happy heart.

But this was a time of war, when dreams are rudely broken, and mine could not last. The next
day some great wheels beat down the bridge, and the teams clogged the road for miles; the waiting
teamsters saw the miller's sheep, and the geese, chickens, and pigs, rashly exposed themselves
in the barnyard; these were killed and eaten, the mill stripped of flour and meal, and the
garden despoiled of its vegetables. A quartermaster's horse foundered, and he demanded the
miller's, giving therefor a receipt, but specifying upon the same the owner's relation to the
Rebellion; and, to crown all, a group of stragglers, butchered the cows, and heaped the beef
in their wagons to feed their regimental friends. When I presented myself, late in the afternoon,
the yard and porches were filled with soldiers; the wife sat within, her head thrown upon the
window, her bright hair unbound, and her eyes red with weeping. The baby had cried itself to
sleep, the sister-in-law took snuff fiercely, at the fire; the black girl cowered in a corner.

"There is not bread in the house for my children," she said; "but I did not think they could
make me shed a tear."

If there were Spartan women, as the story-books say, I wonder if their blood died with them!
I hardly think so.

If I learned anything from my quiet study of this and subsequent campaigns, it was the heartlessness
of war. War brutalizes! The most pitiful become pitiless afield, and those who are not callous,
must do cruel duties. If the quartermaster had not seized the horses, he would have been accountable
for his conduct; had he failed to state the miller's disloyalty in the receipt, he would have
been punished. The men were thieves and brutes, to take the meal and meat; but they were perhaps
hungry and weary, and sick of camp food; on the whole, I became a devotee of the George Fox
faith, and hated warfare, though I knew nothing to substitute for it, in crises.

Besides, the optimist might have seen much to admire. Individual merits were developed around
me; I saw shop-keepers and mechanics in the ranks, and they looked to be better men. Here were
triumphs of engineering; there perfections of applied ingenuity. I saw how the weakest natures
girt themselves for great resolves, and how fortitude outstripped itself. It is a noble thing
to put by the fear of death. It was a grand spectacle, this civil soldiery of both sections,
supporting their principles, ambitions, or whatever instigated them, with their bodies; and
their bones, lie where they will, must be severed, when the plough-share some day heaves them
to the ploughman.

One morning a friend asked me to go upon a scout.

"Where are your companies?" said I.

"There are four behind, and we shall be joined by six at Old Cold Harbor."

I saw, in the rear, filing through a belt of woods, the tall figures of the horsemen, approaching
at a canter.

"Do you command?" said I again.

"No! the Major has charge of the scout, and his orders are secret."

I wheeled beside him, as the cavalry closed up, waved my hand to Plumley, and the girls, and
went forward to the rendezvous, about six miles distant. The remaining companies of the regiment
were here drawn up, watering their nags. The Major was a thick, sunburnt man, with grizzled
beard, and as he saw us rounding a corner of hilly road, his voice rang out--

"Attention! Prepare to mount!"

Every rider sprang to his nag; every nag walked instinctively to his place; every horseman
made fast his girths, strapped his blankets tightly, and lay his hands upon bridle-rein and pommel.

"Attention! Mount!"

The riders sprang to their seats; the bugles blew a lively strain; the horses pricked up their
ears; and the long array moved briskly forward, with the Captain, the Major, and myself at
the head. We were joined in a moment by two pieces of flying artillery, and five fresh companies
of cavalry. In a moment more we were underway again, galloping due northward, and, as I surmised,
toward Hanover Court House. If any branch of the military service is feverish, adventurous,
and exciting, it is that of the cavalry. One's heart beats as fast as the hoof-falls; there
is no music like the winding of the bugle, and no monotone so full of meaning as the clink
of sabres rising and falling with the dashing pace. Horse and rider become one,--a new race
of Centaurs,--and the charge, the stroke, the crack of carbines, are so quick, vehement, and
dramatic, that we seem to be watching the joust of tournaments or following fierce Saladins
and Crusaders again. We had ridden two hours at a fair canter, when we came to a small stream
that crossed the road obliquely, and gurgled away through a sandy valley into the deepnesses
of the woods. A cart-track, half obliterated, here diverged, running parallel with the creek,
and the Major held up his sword as a signal to halt; at the same moment the bugle blew a quick,
shrill note.

"There are hoof-marks here!" grunted the Major,--"five of 'em. The Dutchman has gone into the
thicket. Hulloo!" he added, precipitately--"there go the carbines!"

I heard, clearly, two explosions in rapid succession; then a general discharge, as of several
persons firing at once, and at last, five continuous reports, fainter, but more regular, and
like the several emptyings of a revolver. I had scarcely time to note these things, and the
effect produced upon the troop, when strange noises came from the woods to the right: the floundering
of steeds, the cries and curses of men, and the ringing of steel striking steel. Directly the
boughs crackled, the leaves quivered, and a horse and rider plunged into the road, not five
rods from my feet. The man was bareheaded, and his face and clothing were torn with briars
and branches. He was at first riding fairly upon our troops, when he beheld the uniform and
standards, and with a sharp oath flung up his sword and hands.

"I surrender!" he said; "I give in! Don't shoot!"

The scores of carbines that were levelled upon him at once dropped to their rests at the saddles;
but some unseen avenger had not heeded the shriek; a ball whistled from the woods, and the
man fell from his cushion like a stone. In another instant, the German sergeant bounded through
the gap, holding his sabre aloft in his right hand; but the left hung stiff and shattered at
his side, and his face was deathly white. He glared an instant at the dead man by the roadside,
leered grimly, and called aloud--

"Come on, Major! Dis vay! Dere are a squad of dem ahead!"

The bugle at once sounded a charge, the Major rose in the stirrups, and thundered "Forward!"
I reined aside, intuitively, and the column dashed hotly past me. With a glance at the heap
of mortality littering the way, I spurred my nag sharply, and followed hard behind. The riderless
horse seemed to catch the fever of the moment, and closed up with me, leaving his master the
solitary tenant of the dell. For perhaps three miles we galloped like the wind, and my brave
little traveller overtook the hindmost of the troop, and retained the position. Thrice there
were discharges ahead; I caught glimpses of the Major, the Captain, and the wolfish sergeant,
far in the advance; and once saw, through the cloud of dust that beset them, the pursued and
their individual pursuers, turning the top of a hill. But for the most part, I saw nothing;
I felt all the intense, consuming, burning ardor of the time and the event. I thought that
my hand clutched a sabre, and despised myself that it was not there. I stood in the stirrups,
and held some invisible enemy by the throat. In a word, the bloodiness of the chase was upon
me. I realized the fierce infatuation of matching life with life, and standing arbiter upon
my fellow's body and soul. It seemed but a moment, when we halted, red and panting, in the
paltry Court House village of Hanover; the field-pieces hurled a few shells at the escaping
Confederates, and the men were ordered to dismount.

It seemed that a Confederate picket had been occupying the village, and the creek memorized
by the skirmish was an outpost merely. Two of the man Otto's party had been slain in the woods,
where also lay as many Southerners.

Hanover Court House is renowned as the birthplace of Patrick Henry, the colonial orator, called
by Byron the "forest Demosthenes." In a little tavern, opposite the old Court House building,
he began his humble career as a measurer of gills to convivials, and in the Court House,--a
small stone edifice, plainly but quaintly constructed,--he gave the first exhibitions of his
matchless eloquence. Not far away, on a by-road, the more modern but not less famous orator,
Henry Clay, was born. The region adjacent to his father's was called the "Slashes of Hanover,"
and thence came his appellation of the "Mill Boy of the Slashes." I had often longed to visit
these shrines; but never dreamed that the booming of cannon would announce me. The soldiers
broke into both the tavern and court-house, and splintered some chairs in the former to obtain
relics of Henry. I secured Richmond newspapers of the same morning, and also some items of
intelligence. With these I decided to repair at once to White House, and formed the rash determination
of taking the direct or Pamunkey road, which I had never travelled, and which might be beset
by Confederates. The distance to White House, by this course, was only twenty miles; whereas
it was nearly as far to head-quarters; and I believed that my horse had still the persistence
to carry me. It was past four o'clock; but I thought to ride six miles an hour while daylight
lasted, and, by good luck, get to the depot at nine. The Major said that it was foolhardiness;
the Captain bantered me to go. I turned my back upon both, and bade them good by.

CHAPTER IX.

PUT UNDER ARREST.

While daylight remained, I had little reason to repent my wayward resolve. The Pamunkey lay
to my left, and the residences between it and the road were of a better order than others that
I had seen. This part of the country had not been overrun, and the wheat and young corn were
waving in the river-breeze. I saw few negroes, but the porches were frequently occupied by
women and white men, who looked wonderingly toward me. There were some hoof-marks in the clay,
and traces of a broad tire that I thought belonged to a gun-carriage. The hills of King William
County were but a little way off, and through the wood that darkened them, sunny glimpses of
vari-colored fields and dwellings now and then appeared. I came to a shabby settlement called
New Castle, at six o'clock, where an evil-looking man walked out from a frame-house, and inquired
the meaning of the firing at Hanover.

I explained hurriedly, as some of his neighbors meantime gathered around me. They asked if
I was not a soldier in the Yankee army, and as I rode away, followed me suspiciously with their
eyes and wagged their heads. To end the matter I spurred my pony and soon galloped out of sight.
Henceforward I met only stern, surprised glances, and seemed to read "murder" in the faces
of the inhabitants. A wide creek crossed the road about five miles further on, where I stopped
to water my horse. The shades of night were gathering now; there was no moon; and for the first
time I realized the loneliness of my position. Hitherto, adventure had laughed down fear; hereafter
my mind was to be darkened like the gloaming, and peopled with ghastly shadows.

I was yet young in the experience of death, and the toppled corpse of the slain cavalry-man
on the scout, somehow haunted me. I heard his hoof-falls chiming with my own, and imagined,
with a cold thrill, that his steed was still following me; then, his white rigid face and uplifted
arms menaced my way; and, at last, the ruffianly form of his slayer pursued him along the wood.
They glided like shadows over the foliage, and flashed across the surfaces of pools and rivulets.
I heard their steel ringing in the underbrush, and they flitted around me, pursuing and retreating,
till my brain began to whirl with the motion. Suddenly my horse stumbled, and I reined him
to a halt.

The cold drops were standing on my forehead. I found my knees a-quiver and my breathing convulsive.
With an expletive upon my unmanliness, I touched the nag with my heel, and whistled encouragingly.
Poor pony! Fifty miles of almost uninterrupted travel had broken his spirit. He leaped into
his accustomed pace: but his legs were unsteady and he floundered at every bound. There were
pools, ruts, and boughs across the way, with here and there stretches of slippery corduroy;
but the thick blackness concealed these, and I expected momentarily to be thrown from the saddle.
By and by he dropped from a canter into a rock; from a rock to an amble; then into a walk,
and finally to a slow painful limp. I dismounted and took him perplexedly by the bit. A light
shone from the window of a dwelling across some open fields to the left, and I thought of repairing
thither; but some deep-mouthed dogs began to bay directly, and then the lamp went out. A tiny
stream sang at the roadside, flowing toward some deeper tributary; lighting a cigar, I made
out, by its fitful illuminings, to wash the limbs of the jaded nag. Then I led him for an hour,
till my own limbs were weary, troubled all the time by weird imaginings, doubts, and regrets.
When I resumed the saddle the horse had a firmer step and walked pleasantly. I ventured after
a time to incite him to a trot, and was going nicely forward, when a deep voice, that almost
took my breath, called from the gloom--

"Who comes there? Halt, or I fire! Guard, turn out!"

Directly the road was full of men, and a bull's-eye lantern flashed upon my face. A group of
foot-soldiery, with drawn pistols and sabres, gathered around me, and I heard the neigh of
steeds from some imperceptible vicinity. "Who is it, Sergeant?" said one. "Is there but one
of 'em?" said another. "Cuss him!" said a third; "I was takin' a bully snooze." "Who are yeou?"
said the Sergeant, sternly; "what are yeou deouin' aout at this hour o' the night? Are yeou
a rebbil?"

"No!" I answered, greatly relieved; "I am a newspaper correspondent of Smith's division, and
there's my pass!"

I was taken over to a place in the woods, where some fagots were smouldering, and, stirring
them to a blaze, the Sergeant read the document and pronounced it right.

"Yeou hain't got no business, nevertheless, to be roamin' araound outside o' picket; but seein'
as it's yeou, I reckon yeou may trot along!"

I offered to exchange my information for a biscuit and a drop of coffee, for I was wellnigh
worn out; while one of the privates produced a canteen more wholesome than cleanly, another
gave me a lump of fat pork and a piece of corn bread. They gathered sleepily about me, while
I told of the scout, and the Sergeant said that my individual ride was "game enough, but nothin'
but darn nonsense." Then they fed my horse with a trifle of oats, and after awhile I climbed,
stiff and bruised, to the saddle again, and bade them good night.

I knew now that I was at "Putney's," a ford on the Pamunkey, and an hour later I came in sight
of the ship-lights at White House, and heard the steaming of tugs and draught-boats, going
and coming by night. I hitched my horse to a tree, pilfered some hay and fodder from two or
three nags tied adjacent, and picked my way across a gangway, several barge-decks, and a floating
landing, to the mail steamer that lay outside. Her deck and cabin were filled with people,
stretched lengthwise and crosswise, tangled, grouped, and snoring, but all apparently fast
asleep. I coolly took a blanket from a man that looked as though he did not need it, and wrapped
myself cosily under a bench in a corner. The cabin light flared dimly, half irradiating the
forms below, and the boat heaved a little on the river-swells. The night was cold, the floor
hard, and I almost dead with fatigue. But what of that! I felt the newspapers in my breast
pocket, and knew that the mail could not leave me in the morning. Blessed be the news-gatherer's
sleep! I think he earned it.

It was very pleasant, at dawn, to receive the congratulations of our agent, with whom I breakfasted,
and to whom I consigned a hastily written letter and all the Richmond papers of the preceding
day. He was a shrewd, sanguine, middle-aged man, of large experience and good standing in our
establishment. He was sent through the South at the beginning of the Rebellion, and introduced
into all public bodies and social circles, that he might fathom the designs of Secession, and
comprehend its spirit. Afterward he accompanied the Hatteras and Port Royal expeditions, and
witnessed those celebrated bombardments. Such a thorough individual abnegation I never knew.
He was a part of the establishment, body and soul. He agreed with its politics, adhered to
all its policies, defended it, upheld it, revered it. The Federal Government was, to his eye,
merely an adjunct of the paper. Battles and sieges were simply occurrences for its columns.
Good men, brave men, bad men, died to give it obituaries. The whole world was to him a Reporter's
district, and all human mutations plain matters of news. I hardly think that any city, other
than New York, contains such characters. The journals there are full of fever, and the profession
of journalism is a disease.

He cashed me a draft for a hundred dollars, and I filled my saddle-bags with smoking-tobacco,
spirits, a meerschaum pipe, packages of sardines, a box of cigars, and some cheap publications.
Then we adjourned to the quay, where the steamer was taking in mails, freight and passengers.
The papers were in his side-pocket, and he was about to commit them to a steward for transmission
to Fortress Monroe, when my name was called from the strand by a young mounted officer, connected
with one of the staffs of my division. I thought that he wished to exchange salutations or
make some inquiries, and tripped to his side.

"General McClellan wants those newspapers that you obtained at Hanover yesterday!"

A thunderbolt would not have more transfixed me. I could not speak for a moment. Finally, I
stammered that they were out of my possession.

"Then, sir, I arrest you, by order of General McClellan. Get your horse!"

"Stop!" said I, agitatedly, "--it may not be too late. I can recover them yet. Here is our
agent,--I gave them to him."

I turned, at the word, to the landing where he stood a moment before. To my dismay, he had
disappeared.

"This is some frivolous pretext to escape," said the Lieutenant; "you correspondents are slippery
fellows, but I shall take care that you do not play any pranks with me. The General is irritated
already, and if you prevaricate relative to those papers he may make a signal example of you."

I begged to be allowed to look for----; but he answered cunningly, that I had better mount
and ride on. An acquaintance of mine here interfered, and testified to the existency of the
agent and his probable connection with the journals. Pale, flurried, excited, I started to
discover him, the Lieutenant following me closely meantime. We entered every booth and tent,
went from craft to craft, sought among the thick clusters of people, and even at the Commissary's
and Quartermaster's pounds, that lay some distance up the railroad.

"I am sorry for you, old fellow," said the Lieutenant, "but your accomplice has probably escaped.
It's very sneaking of him, as it makes it harder for you; but I have no authority to deal with
him, though I shall take care to report his conduct at head-quarters."

I found that the Lieutenant was greatly gratified with the duty entrusted to him. He had been
at the cavalry quarters on the return of the scouting party, and had overheard the Major muttering
something as to McClellan's displeasure at receiving no Richmond journals. The Major had added
that one of the correspondents took them to White House, and, mentioning me by name, this young
and aspiring satellite had blurted out that he knew me, and could doubtless overtake me at
the mail-boat in the morning. The Commanding General authorised him to arrest me with the papers,
and report at head-quarters. This was then a journey to recommend him to authority, and it
involved no personal danger. I was not so intimidated that I failed to see how the Lieutenant
would lose his gayest feather by failing to recover the journals, and I dexterously insinuated
that it would be well to recommence the search. This time we were successful. The shrewd, sanguine,
middle-aged man was coolly contemplating the river from an outside barge, concealed from the
shore by piled boxes of ammunition. He was reading a phonetic pamphlet, and appeared to take
his apprehension as a pleasant morning call. I caught one meaning glance, however, that satisfied
me how clearly he understood the case.

"Ha! Townsend," said he, smilingly, "back already? I thought we had lost you. One of your military
friends? Good-day, Lieutenant."

"I am under arrest, my boy," said I, "and you will much aggravate General McClellan, if you
do not consign those Richmond journals to his deputy here."

"Under arrest? You surprise me! I am sorry, Lieutenant that you have had so fatiguing a ride,
but the fact is, those papers have gone down the river. If the General is not in a great hurry,
he will see their columns reproduced by us in a few days."

"How did they go?" said the Lieutenant, with an oath, "if by the mail-boat I will have General
Van Vliet despatch a tug to overhaul her."

"I am very sorry again," said the bland civilian, smoothing his hands: "but they went by the
South America at a much earlier hour."

I looked appealingly to him; the satellite stared down the river perplexedly, but suddenly
his eye fell upon something that absorbed it; and he turned like a madman to----

"By! ---- sir, you are lying to me. There is the South America moored to a barge, and her steam
is not up!"

"Those words are utterly uncalled for," said the agent,--"but you cannot irritate me, my dear
sir! I know that youth is hot,--particularly military youth yet inexperienced; and therefore
I pardon you. I made a mistake. It was not the South America, it was--it was--upon my word
I cannot recall the name!"

"You do not mean to!" thundered the young Ajax, to whose vanity, ----'s speech had been gall;
"my powers are discretionary: I arrest you in the name of General McClellan."

"Indeed! Be sure you understand your orders! It isn't probable that such a fiery blade is allowed
much discretionary margin. The General himself would not assume such airs. Why don't you shoot
me? It might contribute to your promotion, and that is, no doubt, your object. I know General
McClellan very well. He is a personal friend of mine."

His manner was so self-possessed, his tone so cutting, that the young man of fustian--whose
name was Kenty--fingered his sword hilt, and foamed at the lips.

"March on," said he,--"I will report this insolence word for word."

He motioned us to the quay; we preceded him. The sanguine gentleman keeping up a running fire
of malevolent sarcasm.

"Stop!" said he quietly, as we reached his tent,--"I have not sent them at all. They are here.
And you have made all this exhibition of yourself for nothing. I am the better soldier, you
see. You are a drummer-boy, not an officer. Take off your shoulder-bars, and go to school again."

He disappeared a minute, returned with two journals, and looking at me, meaningly, turned to
their titles.

"Let me see!" he said, smoothly,--"Richmond Examiner, May 28, Richmond Enquirer, May 22. There!
You have them! Go in peace! Give my respects to General McClellan! Townsend, old fellow, you
have done your full duty. Don't let this young person frighten you. Good by."

He gave me his hand, with a sinister glance, and left something in my palm when his own was
withdrawn. I examined it hastily when I girt up my saddle. It said: "Your budget got off safe,
old fellow." He had given Kenty some old journals that were of no value to anybody. When we
were mounted and about to start, the Lieutenant looked witheringly upon his persecutor--

"Allow me to say, sir," he exclaimed, "that you are the most unblushing liar I ever knew."

"Thank you, kindly," said----, taking off his hat, "you do me honor!"

Our route was silent and weary enough. The young man at my side, unconscious of his wily antagonist's
deception, boasted for some time that he had attained his purposes. As I could not undeceive
him, I held my tongue; but feared that when this trick should be made manifest, the vengeance
would fall on me alone. I heartily wished the unlucky papers at the bottom of the sea. To gratify
an adventurous whim, and obtain a day's popularity at New York, I had exposed my life, crippled
my nag, and was now to be disgraced and punished. What might or might not befall me, I gloomily
debated. The least penalty would be expulsion from the army; but imprisonment till the close
of the war, was a favorite amusement with the War Office. How my newspaper connection would
be embarrassed was a more grievous inquiry. It stung me to think that I had blundered twice
on the very threshold of my career. Was I not acquiring a reputation for rashness that would
hinder all future promotion and cast me from the courts of the press. Here the iron entered
into my soul; for be it known, I loved Bohemia! This roving commission, these vagabond habits,
this life in the open air among the armies, the white tents, the cannon, and the drums, they
were my elysium, my heart! But to be driven away, as one who had broken his trust, forfeited
favor and confidence, and that too on the eve of grand events, was something that would embitter
my existence.

We passed the familiar objects that I had so often buoyantly beheld,--deserted encampments,
cross-roads, rills, farm-houses, fields, and at last came to Daker's. I called out to them,
and explained my woful circumstances with rueful conciseness.

It was growing dark when we came to general headquarters, two miles beyond Gaines's Mill. The
tents were scattered over the surface of a hill, and most of them were illumined by candles.

The Lieutenant gave our horses to an orderly, and led the way through two outer circles of
wall-tents, between which and the inner circle, guards were pacing, to deny all vulgar ingress.

A staff officer took in our names, and directly returned with the reply of "Pass in!" We were
now in the sacred enclosure, secured by flaming swords. Four tents stood in a row, allotted
respectively to the Chief of Staff, the Adjutant-General, the telegraph operators, and the
select staff officers. Just behind them, embowered by a covering of cedar boughs, stood the
tent of General McClellan. Close by, from an open plot or area of ground, towered a pine trunk,
floating the national flag. Lights burned in three of the tents: low voices, as of subdued
conversation, were heard from the first.

A little flutter of my heart, a drawing aside of canvas, two steps, an uncovering, and a bow,--I
stood at my tribunal! A couple of candles were placed upon a table, whereat sat a fine specimen
of man, with kindly features, dark, grayish, flowing hair, and slight marks of years upon his
full, purplish face. He looked to be a well-to-do citizen, whose success had taught him sedentary
convivialities. A fuming cigar lay before him; some empty champagne bottles sat upon a pine
desk; tumblers and a decanter rested upon a camp-stool; a bucket, filled with water and a great
block of ice, was visible under the table. Five other gentlemen, each with a star in his shoulder-bar,
were dispersed upon chairs and along a camp bedside. The tall, angular, dignified gentleman
with compressed lips and a "character" nose, was General Barry, Chief of Artillery. The lithe,
severe, gristly, sanguine person, whose eyes flashed even in repose, was General Stoneman,
Chief of Cavalry. The large, sleepy-eyed, lymphatic, elderly man, clad in dark, civil gray,
whose ears turned up habitually as from deafness, was Prince de Joinville, brother to Louis
Philippe, King of France. The little man with red hair and beard, who moved quickly and who
spoke sharply, was Seth Williams, Adjutant-General. The stout person with florid face, large,
blue eyes, and white, straight hair, was General Van Vliet, Quartermaster-General. And the
man at the table, was General Marcy, father-in-law to McClellan, and Executive officer of the army.

Maps, papers, books, and luggage lay around the room; all the gentlemen were smoking and wine
sparkled in most of the glasses. Some swords were lying upon the floor, a pair of spurs glistened
by the bed, and three of the officers had their feet in the air.

"What is it you wish, Lieutenant?" said General Marcy, gravely.

The boor in uniform at my side, related his errand and order, gave the particulars of my arrest,
declaimed against our agent, and submitted the journals. He told his story stammeringly, and
I heard one of the officers in the background mutter contemptuously when he had finished.

"Were you aware of the order prohibiting correspondents from keeping with the advance?" said
the General, looking up.

"I had not been notified from head-quarters. I have been with the army only a week."

"You knew that you had no business upon scouts, forages, or reconnoissances; why did you go?"

"I went by invitation."

"Who invited you?"

"I would prefer not to state, since it would do him an injury."

Here the voices in the background muttered, as I thought, applaudingly. Gaining confidence
as I proceeded, I spoke more boldly--

"I am sure I regret that I have disobeyed any order of General McClellan's; but there can nothing
occur in the rear of an army. Obedience, in this case, would be indolence and incompetence;
for only the reliable would stay behind and the reckless go ahead. If I am accredited here
as a correspondent, I must keep up with the events. And the rivalries of our tribe, General,
are so many, that the best of us sometimes forget what is right for what is expedient. I hope
that General McClellan will pass by this offence."

He heard my rambling defence quietly, excused the Lieutenant, and whistled for an orderly.

"I don't think that you meant to offend General McClellan," he said, "but he wishes you to
be detained. Give me your pass. Orderly, take this gentleman to General Porter, and tell him
to treat him kindly. Good night."

When we got outside of the tent, I slipped a silver half-dollar into the orderly's hand, and
asked him if he understood the General's final remark. He said, in reply, that I was directed
to be treated with courtesy, kindness, and care, and asked me, in conclusion, if there were
any adjectives that might intensify the recommendation. When we came to General Porter, the
Provost-Marshal, however, he pooh-poohed the qualifications, and said that his business was
merely to put me under surveillance. This unamiable man ordered me to be taken to Major Willard,
the deputy Provost, whose tent we found after a long search. The Major was absent, but some
young officers of his mess were taking supper at his table, and with these I at once engaged
in conversation.

I knew that if I was to be spared an immersion in the common guardhouse, with drunkards, deserters,
and prisoners of war, I must win the favor of these men. I gave them the story of my arrest,
spoke lightly of the offence and jestingly of the punishment, and, in fact, so improved my
cause that, when the Major appeared, and the Sergeant consigned me to his custody, one of the
young officers took him aside, and, I am sure, said some good words in my favor.

The Major was a bronzed, indurated gentleman, scrupulously attired, and courteously stern.
He looked at me twice or thrice, to my confusion; for I was dusty, wan, and running over with
perspiration. His first remark had, naturally, reference to the lavatory, and, so far as my
face and hair were concerned, I was soon rejuvenated. I found on my return to the tent, a clean
plate and a cup of steaming coffee placed for me, and I ate with a full heart though pleading
covertly the while. When I had done, and the tent became deserted by all save him and me, he
said, simply--

"What am I to do with you, Mr. Townsend?"

"Treat me as a gentleman, I hope, Major."

"We have but one place of confinement," said he, "the guardhouse; but I am loth to send you
there. Light your pipe, and I will think the matter over."

He took a turn in front, consulted with some of his associates, and directly returning, said
that I was to be quartered in his office-tent, adjoining. A horror being thus lifted from my
mind, I heard with sincere interest many revelations of his military career. He had been a
common soldier in the Mexican war, and had fought his way, step by step, to repeated commissions.
He had garrisoned Fort Yuma, and other posts on the far plains, and at the beginning of the
war was tendered a volunteer brigade, which he modestly declined. His tastes were refined,
and a warm fancy, approaching poetry, enhanced his personal reminiscences. His face softened,
his eyes grew milder, his large, commanding mouth relaxed,--he was young again, living his
adventures over. We talked thus till almost midnight, when two regulars appeared in front,--stiff,
ramrodish figures, that came to a jerking "present," tapped their caps with two fingers, and
said, explosively; "Sergeant of Guard, Number Five!"

The Major rose, gave me his hand, and said that I would find a candle in my tent, with waterproof
and blankets on the ground. I was to give myself no concern about the nag, and might, if I
chose, sit for an hour to write, but must, on no account, attempt to leave the canvas, for
the guard would instantly shoot me down. The guard in question had a doppel-ganger,--counterpart
of himself in inflexibility,--and both were appendages of their muskets. He was not probably
a sentient being, certainly not a conversational one. He knew the length of a stride, and the
manual of bayonet exercise, but was, during his natural life, a blind idolater of a deity,
called "Orders." The said "Orders," for the present evening, were walking, not talking, and
he was dumb to all conciliatory words. He took a position at one end of my tent, and his double
at the other end. They carried their muskets at "support arms," and paced up and down, measuredly,
like two cloaked and solemn ghosts. I wrapped myself in the damp blankets, and slept through
the bangs of four or five court-martials and several executions. At three o'clock, they changed
ramrods,--the old doppel-gangers going away, and two new ones fulfilling their functions.

CHAPTER X.

AFTER THE VICTORY.

The two ramrods were still pacing to and fro, when I aroused in the gray of the morning; but
they looked very misty and moist, as if they were impalpables that were shortly to evaporate.
The Major poked his head between the flaps at eight o'clock, and said that breakfast was ready;
but the ramrod nearest me kept vigilantly alongside, and I thought he had been invited also.
The other ramrod guarded the empty tent, and I think that he believed me a doppel-ganger likewise.

I wondered what was to be done with me, as the hours slipped rapidly by. The guards were relieved
again at ten o'clock, and Quartermaster's men commenced to take down the tents. Camps were
to be moved, and I inquired solicitously if I was to be moved also. The Major replied that
prisoners were commonly made to walk along the road, escorted by horsemen, and I imagined,
with dread, the companionship of negroes, estrays, ragged Confederates, and such folk, while
the whole army should witness my degradation. Finally, all the tents were lifted and packed
in wagons, as well as the furniture. I adhered to a stool, at which the teamster looked wistfully,
and the implacable sentinels walked to and fro. A rumor became current among the private soldiers,
that I was the nephew of the southern General Lee, whose wife had been meantime captured at
Hanover Court House. Curious groups sauntered around me, and talked behind their hands. One
man was overheard to say that I had fought desperately, and covered myself with glory, and
another thought that I favored my uncle somewhat, and might succeed to his military virtues.

"I guess I'll take that cheer, if you ain't got no objection," said the teamster, and he slung
it into the wagon. What to do now troubled me materially; but one of the soldiers brought a
piece of rail, and I "squatted" lugubriously on the turf.

"If you ever get to Richmond," said I, "you shall be considerately treated." (Profound sensation.)

"Thankee!" replied the man, touching his cap; "but I'm werry well pleased out o' Richmond,
Captain."

Here the Major was seen approaching, a humorous smile playing about his eyes.

"You are discharged," said he; "General Marcy will return your pass, and perhaps your papers."

I wrung his hand with indescribable relief, and he sent the "ramrod" on guard, to saddle my
horse. In a few minutes, I was mounted again, much to the surprise of the observers of young
Lee, and directly I stood before the kindly Chief of Staff. At my request, he wrote a note
to the division commander, specifying my good behavior, and restoring to me all privileges
and immunities. He said nothing whatever as to the mistake in the papers, and told me that,
on special occasions, I might keep with advances, by procuring an extraordinary pass at head-quarters.
In short, my arrest conduced greatly to my efficiency. I invariably carried my Richmond despatches
to General Marcy, thereafter, and, if there was information of a legitimate description, he
gave me the benefit of it.

My own brigade lay at Dr. Gaines's house, during this time, and we did not lack for excitement.
Just behind the house lay several batteries of rifled guns, and these threw shells at hourly
intervals, at certain Confederate batteries across the river. The distance was two miles or
less; but the firing was generally wretched. Crowds of soldiers gathered around, to watch the
practice, and they threw up their hats applaudingly at successful hits. Occasionally a great
round shot would bound up the hill, and a boy, one day, seeing one of these spent balls rolling
along the ground, put out his foot to stop it, but shattered his leg so dreadfully that it
had to be amputated. Dr. Gaines was a rich, aristocratic, and indolent old Virginian, whose
stables, summerhouses, orchards, and negro-quarters were the finest in their district. The
shooting so annoyed him that he used to resort to the cellar; several shots passed through
his roof, and one of the chimneys was knocked off. His family carriages were five in number,
and as his stables were turned into hospitals, these were all hauled into his lawn, where their
obsolete trimmings and queer shape constantly amused the soldiers. About this time I became
acquainted with some officers of the 5th Maine regiment, and by permission, accompanied them
to Mechanicsville. I was here, on the afternoon of Thursday, May 27, when the battle of Hanover
Court House was fought. We heard the rapid growl of guns, and continuous volleys of musketry,
though the place was fourteen miles distant. At evening, a report was current that the Federals
had gained a great victory, and captured seven hundred prisoners. The truth of this was established
next morning; for detachments of prisoners were from time to time brought in, and the ambulances
came to camp, laden with the wounded. I took this opportunity of observing the Confederate
soldiers, as they lay at the Provost quarters, in a roped pen, perhaps one hundred rods square.

It was evening, as I hitched my horse to a stake near-by, and pressed up to the receptacle
for the unfortunates. Sentries enclosed the pen, walking to-and-fro with loaded muskets; a
throng of officers and soldiers had assembled to gratify their curiosity; and new detachments
of captives came in hourly, encircled by sabremen, the Southerners being disarmed and on foot.
The scene within the area was ludicrously moving. It reminded me of the witch-scene in Macbeth,
or pictures of brigands or Bohemian gypsies at rendezvous, not less than five hundred men,
in motley, ragged costumes, with long hair, and lean, wild, haggard faces, were gathered in
groups or in pairs, around some fagot fires. In the growing darkness their expressions were
imperfectly visible; but I could see that most of them were weary, and hungry, and all were
depressed and ashamed. Some were wrapped in blankets of rag-carpet, and others wore shoes of
rough, untanned hide. Others were without either shoes or jackets, and their heads were bound
with red handkerchiefs. Some appeared in red shirts; some in stiff beaver hats; some were attired
in shreds and patches of cloth; and a few wore the soiled garments of citizen gentlemen; but
the mass adhered to homespun suits of gray, or "butternut," and the coarse blue kersey common
to slaves. In places I caught glimpses of red Zouave breeches and leggings; blue Federal caps,
Federal buttons, or Federal blouses; these were the spoils of anterior battles, and had been
stripped from the slain. Most of the captives were of the appearances denominated "scraggy"
or "knotty." They were brown, brawny, and wiry, and their countenances were intense, fierce,
and animal. They came from North Carolina, the poorest and least enterprising Southern State,
and ignorance, with its attendant virtues, were the common facial manifestations. Some lay
on the bare ground, fast asleep; others chatted nervously as if doubtful of their future treatment;
a few were boisterous, and anxious to beg tobacco or coffee from idle Federals; the rest--and
they comprehended the greater number--were silent, sullen, and vindictive. They met curiosity
with scorn, and spite with imprecations. A child--not more than four years of age, I think--sat
sleeping in a corner upon an older comrade's lap. A gray-bearded pard was staunching a gash
in his cheek with the tail of his coat. A fine-looking young fellow sat with his face in his
hands, as if his heart were far off, and he wished to shut out this bitter scene. In a corner,
lying morosely apart, were a Major, three Captains, and three Lieutenants,--young athletic
fellows, dressed in rich gray cassimere, trimmed with black, and wearing soft black hats adorned
with black ostrich-feathers. Their spurs were strapped upon elegantly fitting boots, and they
looked as far above the needy, seedy privates, as lords above their vassals.

After a time, couples and squads of the prisoners were marched off to cut and carry some firewood,
and water, for the use of their pen, and then each Confederate received coffee, pork, and crackers;
they were obliged to prepare their own meals, but some were so hungry that they gnawed the
raw pork, like beasts of prey. Those who were not provided with blankets, shivered through
the night, though the rain was falling, and the succession of choking coughs that ran through
the ranks, told how ill they could afford the exposure. Major Willard had charge of these men,
and he sent a young officer to get me admittance to the pen, that I might speak with them.

"Good evening, Major," I said, to the ranking Confederate officer, and extended my hand. He
shook it, embarrassedly, and ran me over with his eye, as if to learn my avocation. "Can I
obtain any facts from you," I continued, "as to the battle of Hanover?"

"Fuh what puhpose?" he said, in his strong southern dialect.

"For publication, sir."

He sat up at once, and said that he should be happy to tell me anything that would not be a
violation of military honor. I asked him, therefore, the Confederate Commandant at Hanover,
the number of brigades, regiments, and batteries engaged, the disposition of forces, the character
of the battle, and the losses, so far as he knew, upon his own side. Much of this he revealed,
but unguardedly let out other matters, that direct inquiry could not have discovered. I took
notes of the legitimate passages, trusting to memory for the rest; and think that I possessed
his whole stock of information, in the course of an hour's manoeuvring. It seemed that General
Branch, formerly a member of the Federal congress, had been sent with some thousands of Carolina
troops across the upper Chickahominy, to see if it would not be possible to turn the Federal
right, and cut off one of its brigades; but a stronger Federal reconnoissance had gone northward
the day before, and discovering Branch's camp-fires, sent, during the night, for reinforcements.
In the end, the "North State" volunteers were routed, their cannon silenced or broken, and
seven hundred of their number captured. The Federals lost a large number of men killed, and
the wounded upon both sides, were numerous.

The Confederate Major was of the class referred to in polite American parlance, as a "blatherskite."
He boasted after the manner of his fellow-citizens from the county of "Bunkum," but nevertheless
feared and trembled, to the manifest disgust of one of the young Captains.

"Majuh!" said this young man, "what you doin' thah! That fellow's makin' notes of all your
slack; keep your tongue! aftah awhile you'll tell the nombah of the foces! Don't you s'pose
he'll prent it all?"

The Major had, in fact, been telling me how many regiments the "old Nawth State, suh," had
furnished to the "suhvice," and I had the names of some thirty colonels, in order. The young
Captain gave me a sketch of General Branch, and was anxious that I should publish something
in extenuation of North Carolina valor.

"We have lost mo' men," said he, "than any otha' Commonwealth; but these Vuhginians, whose
soil, by----! suh, we defend suh! Yes, suh! whose soil we defend; these Vuhginians, stigmatize
us as cowads! We, suh! yes suh, we, that nevah wanted to leave the Union,--we cowads! Look
at ou' blood, suh, ou' blood! That's it, by----! look at that! shed on every field of the ole
Dominion,--killed, muhdud, captued, crippled! We cowads! I want you prent that!"

I was able to give each of the officers a drop of whiskey from my flask, and I never saw men
drink so thirstily. Their hands and lips trembled as they took it, and their eyes shone like
lunacy, as the hot drops sank to the cold vitals, and pricked the frozen blood. Mingling with
the privates, I stirred up some native specimens of patriotism, that appeared to be in great
doubt as to the causes and ends of the war. They were very much in the political condition
of a short, thick, sententious man, in blue drilling breeches, who said--

"Damn the country! What's to be done with us?"

One person said that he enlisted for the honor of his family, that "fit in the American Revolution;"
and another came out to "hev a squint et the fightin'." Several were northern and foreign lads,
that were working on Carolina railroads, and could not leave the section, and some labored
under the impression that they were to have a "slice" of land and a "nigger," in the event
of Southern independence. A few comprehended the spirit of the contest, and took up arms from
principle; a few, also, declared their enmity to "Yankee institutions," and had seized the
occasion to "polish them off," and "give them a ropein' in;" but many said it was "dull in
our deestreeks, an' the niggers was runnin' away, so I thought I'ud jine the foces." The great
mass said, that they never contemplated "this box," or "this fix," or "these suckemstances,"
and all wanted the war to close, that they might return to their families. Indeed, my romantic
ideas of rebellion were ruthlessly profaned and dissipated. I knew that there was much selfishness,
peculation, and "Hessianism" in the Federal lines, but I had imagined a lofty patriotism, a
dignified purpose, and an inflexible love of personal liberty among the Confederates. Yet here
were men who knew little of the principles for which they staked their lives;--who enlisted
from the commonest motives of convenience, whim, pelf, adventure, and foray; and who repented,
after their first misfortune, with the salt rheum in their eyes. I think that all "great uprisings"
resolve to this complexion. With due reverence for my own ancestry, I think that they sometimes
stooped from greatness to littleness. I must confess that certain admissions in my revolutionary
textbook are much clearer, now that I have followed a campaign. And if, as I had proposed,
I could have witnessed the further fortunes of the illustrious Garibaldi, I think that some
of his compatriots would have been found equally inconsistent. Let no man believe that the
noblest cause is fought out alone by the unerring motives of duty and devotion. The masses
are never so constant. They cannot appreciate an abstraction, however divine. Any of the gentlemen
in question would have preferred their biscuit and fat pork before the political enfranchisement
of the whole world!

I rode across the fields to the Hogan, Curtis, and Gaines mansions; for some of the wounded
had meantime been deposited in each of them. All the cow-houses, wagon-sheds, hay-barracks,
hen-coops, negro cabins, and barns were turned into hospitals. The floors were littered with
"corn-shucks" and fodder; and the maimed, gashed, and dying lay confusedly together. A few,
slightly wounded, stood at windows, relating incidents of the battle; but at the doors sentries
stood with crossed muskets, to keep out idlers and gossips. The mention of my vocation was
an "open sesame," and I went unrestrained, into all the largest hospitals. In the first of
these an amputation was being performed, and at the door lay a little heap of human fingers,
feet, legs, and arms. I shall not soon forget the bare-armed surgeons, with bloody instruments,
that leaned over the rigid and insensible figure, while the comrades of the subject looked
horrifiedly at the scene. The grating of the murderous saw drove me into the open air, but
in the second hospital which I visited, a wounded man had just expired, and I encountered his
body at the threshold. Within, the sickening smell of mortality was almost insupportable, but
by degrees I became accustomed to it. The lanterns hanging around the room streamed fitfully
upon the red eyes, and half-naked figures. All were looking up, and saying, in pleading monotone:
"Is that you, doctor?" Men with their arms in slings went restlessly up and down, smarting
with fever. Those who were wounded in the lower extremities, body, or head, lay upon their
backs, tossing even in sleep. They listened peevishly to the wind whistling through the chinks
of the barn. They followed one with their rolling eyes. They turned away from the lantern,
for it seemed to sear them. Soldiers sat by the severely wounded, laving their sores with water.
In many wounds the balls still remained, and the discolored flesh was swollen unnaturally.
There were some who had been shot in the bowels, and now and then they were frightfully convulsed,
breaking into shrieks and shouts. Some of them iterated a single word, as, "doctor," or "help,"
or "God," or "oh!" commencing with a loud spasmodic cry, and continuing the same word till
it died away in cadence. The act of calling seemed to lull the pain. Many were unconscious
and lethargic, moving their fingers and lips mechanically, but never more to open their eyes
upon the light; they were already going through the valley and the shadow. I think, still,
with a shudder, of the faces of those who were told mercifully that they could not live. The
unutterable agony; the plea for somebody on whom to call; the longing eyes that poured out
prayers; the looking on mortal as if its resources were infinite; the fearful looking to the
immortal as if it were so far off, so implacable, that the dying appeal would be in vain; the
open lips, through which one could almost look at the quaking heart below; the ghastliness
of brow and tangled hair; the closing pangs; the awful quietus. I thought of Parrhasius, in
the poem, as I looked at these things:--

                         "Gods!
    Could I but paint a dying groan----."

And how the keen eye of West would have turned from the reeking cockpit of the Victory, or
the tomb of the Dead Man Restored, to this old barn, peopled with horrors. I rambled in and
out, learning to look at death, studying the manifestations of pain,--quivering and sickening
at times, but plying my avocation, and jotting the names for my column of mortalities.

At eleven o'clock there was music along the high-road, and a general rushing from camps. The
victorious regiments were returning from Hanover, under escort, and all the bands were pealing
national airs. As they turned down the fields towards their old encampments, the several brigades
stood under arms to welcome them, and the cheers were many and vigorous. But the solemn ambulances
still followed after, and the red flag of the hospitals flaunted bloodily in the blue midnight.

Both the prisoners and the wounded were removed between midnight and morning to White House,
and as I had despatches to forward by the mail-boat, I rode down in an ambulance, that contained
six wounded men besides. The wounded were to be consigned to hospital boats, and forwarded
to hospitals in northern cities, and the prisoners were to be placed in a transport, under
guard, and conveyed to Fort Delaware, near Philadelphia.

Ambulances, it may be said, incidentally, are either two-wheeled or four-wheeled. Two-wheeled
ambulances are commonly called "hop, step, and jumps." They are so constructed that the forepart
is either very high or very low, and may be both at intervals. The wounded occupants may be
compelled to ride for hours in these carriages, with their heels elevated above their heads,
and may finally be shaken out, or have their bones broken by the terrible jolting. The four-wheeled
ambulances are built in shelves, or compartments, but the wounded are in danger of being smothered
in them. It was in one of these latter that I rode, sitting with the driver. We had four horses,
but were thrice "swamped" on the road, and had to take out the wounded men once, till we could
start the wheels. Two of these men were wounded in the face, one of them having his nose completely
severed, and the other having a fragment of his jaw knocked out. A third had received a ball
among the thews and muscles behind his knee, and his whole body appeared to be paralyzed. Two
were wounded in the shoulders, and the sixth was shot in the breast, and was believed to be
injured inwardly, as he spat blood, and suffered almost the pain of death. The ride with these
men, over twenty miles of hilly, woody country, was like one of Dante's excursions into the
Shades. In the awful stillness of the dark pines, their screams frightened the hooting owls,
and the whirring insects in the leaves and tree-tops quieted their songs. They heard the gurgle
of the rills, and called aloud for water to quench their insatiate thirst. One of them sang
a shrill, fierce, fiendish ballad, in an interval of relief, but plunged, at a sudden relapse,
in prayers and curses. We heard them groaning to themselves, as we sat in front, and one man,
it seemed, was quite out of his mind. These were the outward manifestations; but what chords
trembled and smarted within, we could only guess. What regrets for good resolves unfulfilled,
and remorse for years misspent, made hideous these sore and panting hearts? The moonlight pierced
through the thick foliage of the wood, and streamed into our faces, like invitations to a better
life. But the crippled and bleeding could not see or feel it,--buried in the shelves of the
ambulance.

CHAPTER XI.

BALLOON BATTLES.

Some days ago, as I was sitting in Central Park, under a tree no bigger than Jonah's gourd,
broiling nicely brown, and seasoning the process by reading what the lesser weeklies said about
me, I saw at the Park gate a great phantasm, like a distended sausage, swaying to and fro as
if striving to burst, and directly the horrible thing blew upwards, spilling all the stuffing
from the case.

I saw in a moment that the apparition was a balloon, and that the aeronaut was only emptying
ballast.

Straight toward me the floating vessel came, so close to the ground that I could hear the silk
crackle and the ropes creak, till, directly, a man leaned over the side and shouted--

"Is that you, Townsend?"

"Hallo, Lowe!"

"I want you to get on your feet and be spry about it: we have a literary party here, and wish
you to write it up. I'll let one bag of ballast go, as we touch the grass, and you must leap
in simultaneously. Thump!"

Here the car collided with the ground, and in another instant, I found quantities of dirt spilled
down my back, and two or three people lying beneath me. The world slid away, and the clouds
opened to receive me. Lowe was opening a bottle of Heidsick, and three or four gentlemen with
heads sick were unclosing the petals of their lips to get the afternoon dew.

These were the various critics and fugitive writers of the weekly and daily press. They looked
as if they wanted to put each other over the side of the car, but smothered their invective
at my advent, as if I were so much pearl-ash.

It was just seven o'clock, and the Park lay like a veined and mottled blood-stone in the red
sunset. The city wilted to the littleness of a rare mosaic pin, its glittering point parting
the blue scarf of the bay, and the white bosom of the ocean swelling afar, all draped with
purple clouds like golden hair, in which the entangled gems were the sails of the white ships.

I said this aloud, and all the party drew their lead pencils. They forgot the occasion in my
eloquence, and wanted to report me.

Just here, I drew a field-glass from the aeronaut, and reconnoitred the streets of the city.
To my dismay there was nobody visible on Broadway but gentlemen. I called everybody's attention
to the fact, and it was accounted for on the supposition that the late bank forgeries and defalcations,
growing out of the extravagance of womankind, had prompted all the husbands to make of their
homes nunneries.

We observed, however, close by every gentleman, something that resembled a black dog with his
tail curled over his back.

"Stuff!" said one, "they're hay wagons."

"No!" cried Lowe, "they're nothing of the sort; they are waterfalls, and the ladies are, of
course, invisible under them."

We accepted the explanation, and thought the trip very melancholy. No landscape is complete
without a woman. Very soon we struck the great polar current, and passed Harlem river; the
foliage of the trees, by some strange anomaly, began to ascend towards us, but Lowe caught
two or three of the supposed leaves, and they proved to be greenbacks.

There was at once a tremendous sensation in the car; we knew that we were on the track of Ketchum
and his carpet-bag of bank-notes.

"Is there any reward out?" cried Lowe.

"Not yet!"

"Then we won't pursue him."

As we slowly drifted to the left, the Hudson shone through the trees, and before dusk we swept
across Lake Mahopec. I heard a voice singing to the dip of oars, and had to be held down by
five men to restrain an involuntary impulse to quit my company.

"Townsend," said Lowe, "have you the copy of that matter you printed about me in England? This
is the time to call you to account for it. We are two or three miles above terra firma, and
I might like to drop you for a parachute."

I felt Lowe's muscle, and knew myself secure. Then I unrolled the pages, which I fortunately
carried with me, and told him the following news about himself:--

The aeronaut of the Army of the Potomac was Mr. S. T. C. Lowe; he had made seven thousand ascensions,
and his army companion was invariably either an artist, a correspondent, or a telegrapher.

A minute insulated wire reached from the car to headquarters, and McClellan was thus informed
of all that could be seen within the Confederate works. Sometimes they remained aloft for hours,
making observations with powerful glasses, and once or twice the enemy tested their distance
with shell.

On the 13th of April, the Confederates sent up a balloon, the first they had employed, at which
Lowe was infinitely amused. He said that it had neither shape nor buoyancy, and predicted that
it would burst or fall apart after a week. It certainly occurred that, after a few fitful appearances,
the stranger was seen no more, till, on the 28th of June, it floated, like a thing of omen,
over the spires of Richmond. At that time the Federals were in full retreat, and all the acres
were covered with their dead.

On the 11th of April, at five o'clock, an event at once amusing and thrilling occurred at our
quarters. The commander-in-chief had appointed his personal and confidential friend, General
Fitz John Porter, to conduct the siege of Yorktown. Porter was a polite, soldierly gentleman,
and a native of New Hampshire, who had been in the regular army since early manhood. He fought
gallantly in the Mexican war, being thrice promoted and once seriously wounded, and he was
now forty years of age,--handsome, enthusiastic, ambitious, and popular. He made frequent ascensions
with Lowe, and learned to go aloft alone. One day he ascended thrice, and finally seemed as
cosily at home in the firmament as upon the solid earth. It is needless to say that he grew
careless, and on this particular morning leaped into the car and demanded the cables to be
let out with all speed. I saw with some surprise that the flurried assistants were sending
up the great straining canvas with a single rope attached. The enormous bag was only partially
inflated, and the loose folds opened and shut with a crack like that of a musket. Noisily,
fitfully, the yellow mass rose into the sky, the basket rocking like a leather in the zephyr;
and just as I turned aside to speak to a comrade, a sound came from overhead, like the explosion
of a shell, and something striking me across the face laid me flat upon the ground.

Half blind and stunned, I staggered to my feet, but the air seemed full of cries and curses.
Opening my eyes ruefully, I saw all faces turned upwards, and when I looked above,--the balloon
was adrift.

The treacherous cable, rotted with vitriol, had snapped in twain; one fragment had been the
cause of my downfall, and the other trailed, like a great entrail, from the receding car, where
Fitz John Porter was bounding upward upon a Pegasus that he could neither check nor direct.

The whole army was agitated by the unwonted occurrence. From battery No. 1, on the brink of
the York, to the mouth of Warwick river, every soldier and officer was absorbed. Far within
the Confederate lines the confusion extended. We heard the enemy's alarm-guns, and directly
the signal flags were waving up and down our front.

The General appeared directly over the edge of the car. He was tossing his hands frightenedly,
and shouting something that we could not comprehend.

"O--pen--the--valve!" called Lowe, in his shrill tones; "climb--to--the--netting--and--reach--the--valve--rope."

"The valve!--the valve!" repeated a multitude of tongues, and all gazed with thrilling interest
at the retreating hulk that still kept straight upward, swerving neither to the east nor the west.

It was a weird spectacle,--that frail, fading oval, gliding against the sky, floating in the
serene azure, the little vessel swinging silently beneath, and a hundred thousand martial men
watching the loss of their brother in arms, but powerless to relieve or recover him. Had Fitz
John Porter been drifting down the rapids of Niagara, he could not have been so far from human
assistance. But we saw him directly, no bigger than a child's toy, clambering up the netting
and reaching for the cord.

"He can't do it," muttered a man beside me; "the wind blows the valve-rope to and fro, and
only a spry, cool-headed fellow can catch it."

We saw the General descend, and appearing again over the edge of the basket, he seemed to be
motioning to the breathless hordes below, the story of his failure. Then he dropped out of
sight, and when we next saw him, he was reconnoitring the Confederate works through a long
black spy-glass. A great laugh went up and down the lines as this cool procedure was observed,
and then a cheer of applause ran from group to group. For a moment it was doubtful that the
balloon would float in either direction; it seemed to falter, like an irresolute being, and
moved reluctantly southeastward, towards Fortress Monroe. A huzza, half uttered, quivered on
every lip. All eyes glistened, and some were dim with tears of joy. But the wayward canvas
now turned due westward, and was blown rapidly toward the Confederate works. Its course was
fitfully direct, and the wind seemed to veer often, as if contrary currents, conscious of the
opportunity, were struggling for the possession of the daring navigator. The south wind held
mastery for awhile, and the balloon passed the Federal front amid a howl of despair from the
soldiery. It kept right on, over sharpshooters, rifle-pits, and outworks, and finally passed,
as if to deliver up its freight, directly over the heights of Yorktown. The cool courage, either
of heroism or despair, had seized upon Fitz John Porter. He turned his black glass upon the
ramparts and masked cannon below, upon the remote camps, upon the beleaguered town, upon the
guns of Gloucester Point, and upon distant Norfolk. Had he been reconnoitring from a secure
perch at the tip of the moon, he could not have been more vigilant, and the Confederates probably
thought this some Yankee device to peer into their sanctuary in despite of ball or shell. None
of their great guns could be brought to bear upon the balloon; but there were some discharges
of musketry that appeared to have no effect, and finally even these demonstrations ceased.
Both armies in solemn silence were gazing aloft, while the imperturbable mariner continued
to spy out the land.

The sun was now rising behind us, and roseate rays struggled up to the zenith, like the arcs
made by showery bombs. They threw a hazy atmosphere upon the balloon, and the light shone through
the network like the sun through the ribs of the skeleton ship in the Ancient Mariner. Then,
as all looked agape, the air-craft "plunged, and tacked, and veered," and drifted rapidly toward
the Federal lines again.

The allelujah that now went up shook the spheres, and when he had regained our camp limits,
the General was seen clambering up again to clutch the valve-rope. This time he was successful,
and the balloon fell like a stone, so that all hearts once more leaped up, and the cheers were
hushed. Cavalry rode pell-mell from several directions, to reach the place of descent, and
the General's personal staff galloped past me like the wind, to be the first at his debarkation.
I followed the throng of soldiery with due haste, and came up to the horsemen in a few minutes.
The balloon had struck a canvas tent with great violence, felling it as by a bolt, and the
General, unharmed, had disentangled himself from innumerable folds of oiled canvas, and was
now the cynosure of an immense group of people. While the officers shook his hands, the rabble
bawled their satisfaction in hurrahs, and a band of music marching up directly, the throng
on foot and horse gave him a vociferous escort to his quarters.

Five miles east of Richmond, in the middle of May, we found the balloon already partially inflated,
resting behind a ploughed hill that formed one of a ridge or chain of hills, bordering the
Chickahominy. The stream was only a half-mile distant, but the balloon was sheltered from observation
by reason of its position in the hollow.

Heretofore the ascensions had been made from remote places, for there was good reason to believe
that batteries lined the opposite hills; but now, for the first time, Lowe intended to make
an ascent whereby he could look into Richmond, count the forts encircling it, and note the
number and position of the camps that intervened. The balloon was named the "Constitution,"
and looked like a semi-distended boa-constrictor, as it flapped with a jerking sound, and shook
its oiled and painted folds. It was anchored to the ground by stout ropes affixed to stakes,
and also by sand-bags which hooked to its netting. The basket lay alongside; the generators
were contained in blue wooden wagons, marked "U. S.;" and the gas was fed to the balloon through
rubber and metallic pipes. A tent or two, a quantity of vitriol in green and wicker carboys,
some horses and transportation teams, and several men that assisted the inflation, were the
only objects to be remarked. As some time was to transpire before the arrangements were completed,
I resorted to one of the tents and took a comfortable nap. The "Professor" aroused me at three
o'clock, when I found the canvas straining its bonds, and emitting a hollow sound, as of escaping
gas. The basket was made fast directly, the telescopes tossed into place; the Professor climbed
to the side, holding by the network; and I coiled up in a rope at the bottom.

"Stand by your cables," he said, and the bags of ballast were at once cut away. Twelve men
took each a rope in hand, and played out slowly, letting us glide gently upward. The earth
seemed to be falling away, and we poised motionless in the blue ether. The tree-tops sank downward,
the hills dropped noiselessly through space, and directly the Chickahominy was visible beyond
us, winding like a ribbon of silver through the ridgy landscape.

Far and wide stretched the Federal camps. We saw faces turned upwards gazing at our ascent,
and heard clearly, as in a vacuum, the voices of soldiers. At every second the prospect widened,
the belt of horizon enlarged, remote farmhouses came in view; the earth was like a perfectly
flat surface, painted with blue woods, and streaked with pictures of roads, fields, fences,
and streams. As we climbed higher, the river seemed directly beneath us, the farms on the opposite
bank were plainly discernible, and Richmond lay only a little way off, enthroned on its many
hills, with the James stretching white and sinuous from its feet to the horizon. We could see
the streets, the suburbs, the bridges, the outlaying roads, nay, the moving masses of people.
The Capitol sat white and colossal on Shockoe Hill, the dingy buildings of the Tredegar works
blackened the river-side above, the hovels of rockets clustered at the hither limits, and one
by one we made out familiar hotels, public edifices, and vicinities. The fortifications were
revealed in part only, for they took the hue of the soil, and blended with it; but many camps
were plainly discernible, and by means of the glasses we separated tent from tent, and hut
from hut. The Confederates were seen running to the cover of the woods, that we might not discover
their numbers, but we knew the location of their camp-fires by the smoke that curled toward us.

A panorama so beautiful would have been rare at any time, but this was thrice interesting from
its past and coming associations. Across those plains the hordes at our feet were either to
advance victoriously, or be driven eastward with dusty banners and dripping hands. Those white
farm-houses were to be receptacles for the groaning and the mangled; thousands were to be received
beneath the turf of those pasture fields; and no rod of ground on any side, should not, sooner
or later, smoke with the blood of the slain.

"Guess I got 'em now, jest where I want 'em," said Lowe, with a gratified laugh; "jest keep
still as you mind to, and squint your eye through my glass, while I make a sketch of the roads
and the country. Hold hard there, and anchor fast!" he screamed to the people below. Then he
fell imperturbably to work, sweeping the country with his hawk-eye, and escaping nothing that
could contribute to the completeness of his jotting.

We had been but a few minutes thus poised, when close below, from the edge of a timber stretch,
puffed a volume of white smoke. A second afterward, the air quivered with the peal of a cannon.
A third, and we heard the splitting shriek of a shell, that passed a little to our left, but
in exact range, and burst beyond us in the ploughed field, heaving up the clay as it exploded.

"Ha!" said Lowe, "they have got us foul! Haul in the cables--quick!" he shouted, in a fierce tone.

At the same instant, the puff, the report, and the shriek were repeated; but this time the
shell burst to our right in mid-air, and scattered fragments around and below us.

"Another shot will do our business," said Lowe, between his teeth; "it isn't a mile, and they
have got the range."

Again the puff and the whizzing shock. I closed my eyes, and held my breath hard. The explosion
was so close, that the pieces of shell seemed driven across my face, and my ears quivered with
the sound. I looked at Lowe, to see if he was struck. He had sprung to his feet, and clutched
the cordage frantically.

"Are you pulling in there, you men?" he bellowed, with a loud imprecation.

"Puff! bang! whiz-z-z-z! splutter!" broke a third shell, and my heart was wedged in my throat.

I saw at a glimpse the whole bright landscape again. I hoard the voices of soldiers below,
and saw them running across fields, fences, and ditches, to reach our anchorage. I saw some
drummer-boys digging in the field beneath for one of the buried shells. I saw the waving of
signal flags, the commotion through the camps,--officers galloping their horses, teamsters
whipping their mules, regiments turning out, drums beaten, and batteries limbered up. I remarked,
last of all, the site of the battery that alarmed us, and, by a strange sharpness of sight
and sense, believed that I saw the gunners swabbing, ramming, and aiming the pieces.

"Puff! bang! whiz-z-z-z! splutter! crash!"

"Puff! bang! whiz-z-z-z! splutter! crash!"

"My God!" said Lowe, hissing the words slowly and terribly, "they have opened upon us from
another battery!"

The scene seemed to dissolve. A cold dew broke from my forehead. I grew blind and deaf. I had
fainted.

"Pitch some water in his face," said somebody. "He ain't used to it. Hallo! there he comes to."

I staggered to my feet. There must have been a thousand men about us. They were looking curiously
at the aeronaut and me. The balloon lay fuming and struggling on the clods.

"Three cheers for the Union bal-loon!" called a little fellow at my side.

"Hip, hip--hoorooar! hoorooar! hoorooar!"

"Tiger-r-r--yah! whoop!"

CHAPTER XII.

SEVEN PINES AND FAIROAKS.

Returning from White House on Saturday, May 29, I heard the cannon of "Seven Pines." The roar
of artillery came faintly upon the ear in the dells and woods, but in the open stretches of
country, or from cleared hill-tops, I could hear also the volleys of musketry. It was the battle
sound that assured me of bloody work; for the musket, as I had learned by experience, was the
only certain signification of battle. It is seldom brought into requisition but at close quarters,
when results are intended; whereas, cannon may peal for a fortnight, and involve no other destruction
than that of shell and powder. I do not think that any throb of my heart was unattended by
some volley or discharge. Dull, hoarse, uninterrupted, the whole afternoon was shaken by the
sound. It was with a shudder that I thought how every peal announced flesh and bone riven asunder.
The country people, on the way, stood in their side yards, anxiously listening. Riders or teamsters
coming from the field, were beset with inquiries; but in the main they knew nothing. As I stopped
at Daker's for dinner, the concussion of the battle rattled our plates, and the girls entirely
lost their appetites, so that Glumley, who listened and speculated, observed that the baby
face was losing all the lines of art, and was quite flat and faded in color. Resuming our way,
we encountered a sallow, shabby person, driving a covered wagon, who recognized me at once.
It was the "Doctor" who had lightened the journey down the Chesapeake, by a discourse upon
embalming. He pointed toward the field with a long bony finger, and called aloud, with a smirk
upon his face--

"I have the apparatus here, you see. They will need me out yonder, you know. There's opportunity
there for the development of the 'system.'"

I did not reach my own camp at Gaines's Farm, till late in the day. The firing had almost entirely
ceased, but occasional discharges still broke the repose of evening, and at night signal rockets
hissed and showered in every direction. Next day the contest recommenced; but although not
farther in a direct line, than seven miles, from our encampment, I could not cross the Chickahominy,
and was compelled to lie in my tent all day.

These two battles were offered by the Confederates, in the hope of capturing that portion of
the Federal army that lay upon the Richmond side of the river. Some days previously, McClellan
had ordered Keyes's corps, consisting of perhaps twelve thousand men, to cross Bottom Bridge,
eight miles down the Chickahominy, and occupy an advanced position on the York River railroad,
six miles east of Richmond. Keyes's two divisions, commanded by Generals Couch and Casey, were
thus encamped in a belt of woods remote from the body of the army, and little more than a mile
from the enemy's line. Heintzelman's corps was lying at the Bridge, several miles in their
rear, and the three finest corps in the army were separated from them by a broad, rapid river,
which could be crossed at two places only. The troops of Keyes were mainly inexperienced, undisciplined
volunteers from the Middle States. When their adversaries advanced, therefore, in force, on
the twenty-ninth instant, they made a fitful, irregular resistance, and at evening retired
in panic and disorder. The victorious enemy followed them so closely, that many of the Federals
were slain in their tents. During that night, the Chickahominy, swollen by rains, overflowed
its banks, and swept away the bridges. The beaten and disorganized relic of the fight of "Seven
Pines," was thus completely isolated, and apparently to be annihilated at daybreak. But during
the night, twenty thousand fresh men of Sumner's corps, forded the river, carrying their artillery,
piece by piece across, and at dawn they assumed the offensive, seconded by the encouraged columns
of Keyes. The fight was one of desperation; at night the Federals reoccupied their old ground
at Fairoaks, and the Confederates retired, leaving their dead and wounded on the field. They
lost, among their prisoners, General Pettigrew, of South Carolina, who was severely wounded,
and with whom I talked as he lay in bed at Gaines's Mansion. He appeared to be a chivalrous,
gossipy old gentleman, and said that he was the last South Carolinian to stand by the Union.

On the succeeding day, Monday, June 2, I rode to "Grape-Vine Bridge," and attempted to force
my horse through the swamp and stream; but the drowned mules that momentarily floated down
the current, admonished me of the folly of the hazard. The bridge itself was a swimming mass
of poles and logs, that yielded with every pressure; yet I saw many wounded men, who waded
through the water, or stepped lightly from log to log, and so gained the shore, wet from head
to foot. Long lines of supply teams and ambulances were wedged in the depth of the thick wood,
bordering the river; but so narrow were the corduroy approaches to the bridge, and so fathomless
the swamp on either hand, that they could neither go forward, nor return. The straggling troops
brought the unwelcome intelligence, that their comrades on the other side were starving, as
they had crossed with a single ration of food, and had long ago eaten their last morsels. While
I was standing close by the bridge, General McClellan, and staff, rode through the swamp, and
attempted to make the passage. The "young Napoleon," urged his horse upon the floating timber,
and at once sank over neck and saddle. His staff dashed after him, floundering in the same
way; and when they had splashed and shouted, till I believed them all drowned, they turned
and came to shore, dripping and discomfited. There was another Napoleon, who, I am informed,
slid down the Alps into Italy; the present descendant did not slide so far, and he shook himself,
after the manner of a dog. I remarked with some surprise, that he was growing obese; whereas,
the active labors of the campaign had reduced the dimensions of most of the Generals.

I secured my horse, and placed a drummer-boy beside him, to prevent abduction or mistake; then
stripping from top to toe, and holding my garments above my head, I essayed the difficult passage;
as a commencement, I dropped my watch, but the guard-hook caught in a log and held it fast.
Afterward, I slipped from the smooth butt of a tree, and thoroughly soused myself and clothing;
a lumber-man from Maine, beheld my ill luck, and kindly took my burden to the other side. An
estuary of the Chickahominy again intervened, but a rough scow floated upon it, which the Captain
of Engineers sent for me, with a soldier to man the oars. I neglected to "trim boat," I am
sorry to add, although admonished to that effect repeatedly by the mariner; and we swamped
in four feet of water. I resembled a being of one of the antediluvian eras, when I came to
land, finally, and might have been taken for a slimy Iguanodon. I sacrificed some of my under
clothing to the process of cleansing and drying, and so started with soaking boots, and a deficiency
of dress, in the direction of Savage's. Passing the "bottom," or swamp-land, I ascended a hill,
and following a lane, stopped after a half hour at a frame-mansion, unpainted, with some barns
and negro-quarters contiguous, and a fine grove of young oaks, shading the porch. An elderly
gentleman sat in the porch, sipping a julep, with his feet upon the railing, and conversing
with a stout, ruddy officer, of decidedly Milesian physiognomy. When I approached, the latter
hurriedly placed a chair between himself and me, and said, with a stare--

"Bloodanowns! And where have ye been? Among the hogs, I think?" I assured him that I did not
intend to come to close quarters, and that it would be no object on my part to contaminate
him. The old gentleman called for "William," a tall, consumptive servant, whose walk reminded
me of a stubborn convict's, in the treadmill, and ordered him to scrape me, which was done,
accordingly, with a case-knife. The young officer proposed to dip me in the well and wring
me well out, but I demurred, mainly on the ground that some time would be so consumed, and
that my horse was waiting on the other side. He at once said that he would send for it, and
called "Pat," a civilian servant, in military blue, who was nursing a negro baby with an eye,
it seemed, to obtain favor with the mother. The willingness of the man surprised me, but he
said that it was a short cut of four miles to the railroad bridge, which had been repaired
and floored, and that he could readily recover the animal and return at three o'clock. My benefactor,
the officer, then mixed a julep, which brought a comfortable glow to my face, and said, without
parley--

"You're a reporter, on the----"

He said further, that he had been Coroner's Surgeon in New York for many years, and had learned
to know the representatives of newspapers, one from the other, by generic manner and appearance.
Three correspondents rode by at the time, neither of whom he knew personally, but designated
them promptly, with their precise connections. In short, we became familiar directly, and he
told me that his name was O'Gamlon, Quartermaster of Meagher's Irish brigade, Sumner's corps.
He was established with the elderly gentleman,--whose name was Michie,--and had two horses
in the stable, at hand. He proposed to send me to the field, with a note of introduction to
the General, and another to Colonel Baker, of the New York 88th (Irish), who could show me
the lines and relics of battle, and give me the lists of killed, wounded, and missing. I repaired
to his room, and arrayed myself in a fatigue officer's suit, with clean underclothing, after
which, descending, I climbed into his saddle, and dashed off, with a mettlesome, dapper pony.
The railroad track was about a mile from the house, and the whole country, hereabout, was sappy,
dank, and almost barren. Scrub pines covered much of the soil, and the cleared fields were
dotted with charred stumps. The houses were small and rude; the wild pigs ran like deer through
the bushes and across my path; vultures sailed by hundreds between me and the sky; the lane
was slippery and wound about slimy pools; the tree-tops, in many places, were splintered by
ball and shell. I crossed the railroad, cut by a high bridge, and saw below the depot, at Savage's,
now the head-quarters of General Heintzelman. Above, in full view, were the commands at Peach
Orchard and Fairoaks, and to the south, a few furlongs distant, the Williamsburg and Richmond
turnpike ran, parallel with the railway, toward the field of Seven Pines. The latter site,
was simply the junction of the turnpike with a roundabout way to Richmond, called the "Nine
Mile Road," and Fairoaks was the junction of the diverging road with the railroad. Toward the
latter I proceeded, and soon came to the Irish brigade, located on both sides of the way, at
Peach Orchard.

They occupied the site of the most desperate fighting.

A small farm hollowed in the swampy thicket and wood, was here divided by the track, and a
little farm-house, with a barn, granary, and a couple of cabins, lay on the left side. In a
hut to the right General Thomas Francis Meagher made his head-quarters, and a little beyond,
in the edges of the swamp timber, lay his four regiments, under arms.

A guard admonished me, in curt, lithe speech, that my horse must come no further; for the brigade
held the advance post, and I was even now within easy musket range of the imperceptible enemy.
An Irish boy volunteered to hold the rein, while I paid my respects to the Commander. I encountered
him on the threshold of the hut, and he welcomed me in the richest and most musical of brogues.
Large, corpulent, and powerful of body; plump and ruddy--or as some would say, bloated--of
face; with resolute mouth and heavy animal jaws; expressive nose, and piercing blue-eyes; brown
hair, mustache, and eyebrows; a fair forehead, and short sinewy neck, a man of apparently thirty
years of age, stood in the doorway, smoking a cigar, and trotting his sword fretfully in the
scabbard. He wore the regulation blue cap, but trimmed plentifully with gold lace, and his
sleeves were slashed in the same manner. A star glistened in his oblong shoulder-bar; a delicate
gold cord seamed his breeches from his Hessian boots to his red tasselled sword-sash; a seal-ring
shone from the hand with which he grasped his gauntlets, and his spurs were set upon small
aristocratic feet.

A tolerable physiognomist would have resolved his temperament to an intense sanguine. He was
fitfully impulsive, as all his movements attested, and liable to fluctuations of peevishness,
melancholy, and enthusiasm. This was "Meagher of the Sword," the stripling who made issue with
the renowned O'Connell, and divided his applauses; the "revolutionist," who had outlived exile
to become the darling of the "Young Ireland" populace in his adopted country; the partisan,
whose fierce, impassioned oratory had wheeled his factious element of the Democracy into the
war cause; and the soldier, whose gallant bearing at Bull Run had won him a brigadiership.
He was, to my mind, a realization of the Knight of Gwynne, or any of the rash, impolitic, poetic
personages in Lever and Griffin. Ambitious without a name; an adventurer without a definite
cause; an orator without policy; a General without caution or experience, he had led the Irish
brigade through the hottest battles, and associated them with the most brilliant episodes of
the war.

Every adjunct of the place was strictly Hibernian. The emerald green standard entwined with
the red, white, and blue; the gilt eagles on the flag-poles held the Shamrock sprig in their
beaks; the soldiers lounging on guard, had "69" or "88" the numbers of their regiments, stamped
on a green hat-band; the brogue of every county from Down to Wexford fell upon the ear; one
might have supposed that the "year '98" had been revived, and that these brawny Celts were
again afield against their Saxon countrymen. The class of lads upon the staff of Meagher, was
an odd contrast to the mass of staff officers in the "Grand Army." Fox-hunters they all seemed
to me, and there was one, who wore a long, twisted, pomatumed moustache, who talked of steeple
chases, all the while, and wanted to have "a healthy dash" of some kind. A class of Irish exquisites,
they appeared to be,--good for a fight, a card-party, or a hurdle jumping,--but entirely too
Quixotic for the sober requirements of Yankee warfare. When anything absurd, forlorn, or desperate
was to be attempted, the Irish brigade was called upon. But, ordinarily, they were regarded,
as a party of mad fellows, more ornamental than useful, and entirely too clannish and factious
to be entrusted with power. Meagher himself seemed to be less erratic than his subordinates;
for he had married a New York lady, and had learned, by observation, the superiority of the
pelfish, plodding native before his own fitful, impracticable race. His address was infatuating:
but there was a certain airiness, indicative of vanity, that revealed his great characteristic.
He loved applause, and to obtain it had frittered away his fine abilities, upon petty, splendid,
momentary triumphs. He was generous to folly, and, I have no doubt, maintained his whole staff.

When I requested to be shown the field, and its relics, Meagher said, in his musical brogue,
that I need only look around.

"From the edge of that wood," he said, "the Irish brigade charged across this field, and fell
upon their faces in the railway cutting below. A regiment of Alabamians lay in the timber beyond,
with other Southerners in their rear, and on both flanks. They thought that we were charging
bayonets, and reserved their fire till we should approach within butchering distance. On the
contrary, I ordered the boys to lie down, and load and fire at will. In the end, sir, we cut
them to pieces, and five hundred of them were left along the swamp fence, that you see. There
isn't fifty killed and wounded in the whole Irish brigade."

A young staff officer took me over the field. We visited first the cottage and barns across
the road, and found the house occupied by some thirty wounded Federals. They lay in their blankets
upon the floors,--pale, helpless, hollow-eyed, making low moans at every breath. Two or three
were feverishly sleeping, and, as the flies revelled upon their gashes, they stirred uneasily
and moved their hands to and fro. By the flatness of the covering at the extremities, I could
see that several had only stumps of legs. They had lost the sweet enjoyment of walking afield,
and were but fragments of men, to limp forever through a painful life. Such wrecks of power
I never beheld. Broad, brawny, buoyant, a few hours ago, the loss of blood, and the nervous
shock, attendant upon amputation, has wellnigh drained them to the last drop. Their faces were
as white as the tidy ceiling; they were whining like babies; and only their rolling eyes distinguished
them from mutilated corpses. Some seemed quite broken in spirit, and one, who could speak,
observing my pitiful glances toward his severed thigh, drew up his mouth and chin, and wept
as if with the loss of comeliness all his ambitions were frustrated. A few attendants were
brushing off the insects with boughs of cedar, laving the sores, or administering cooling draughts.
The second story of the dwelling was likewise occupied by wounded, but in a corner clustered
the terrified farmer and his family, vainly attempting to turn their eyes from the horrible
spectacle. The farmer's wife had a baby at her breast, and its little blue eyes were straying
over the room, half wonderingly, half delightedly. I thought, with a shudder, of babyhood thus
surrounded, and how, in the long future, its first recollections of existence should be of
booming guns and dying soldiers! The cow-shed contained seven corpses, scarcely yet cold, lying
upon their backs, in a row, and fast losing all resemblance to man. The farthest removed, seemed
to be a diminutive boy, and I thought if he had a mother, that she might sometime like to speak
with me. When I took their names, I thought what terrible agencies I was fulfilling. Beyond
my record, falsely spelled, perhaps, they would have no history. And people call such deaths
glorious!

Upon a pile of lumber and some heaps of fence-rails, close by, sat some dozens of wounded men,
mainly Federals, with bandaged arms and faces, and torn clothing. There was one, shot in the
foot, who howled at every effort to remove his boot; the blood leaked from a rent in the side,
and at last, the leather was cut, piecemeal from the flesh. These ate voraciously, though in
pain and fear; for a little soup and meat was being doled out to them.

The most horrible of all these scenes--which I have described perhaps too circumstantially--was
presented in the stable or barn, on the premises, where a bare dingy floor--the planks of which
tilted and shook, as one made his way over them--was strewn with suffering people. Just at
the entrance sat a boy, totally blind, both eyes having been torn out by a minnie-ball, and
the entire bridge of the nose shot away. He crouched against the gable, in darkness and agony,
tremulously fingering his knees. Near at hand, sat another, who had been shot through the middle
of the forehead, but singular to relate, he still lived, though lunatic, and evidently beyond
hope. Death had drawn blue and yellow circles beneath his eyes, and he muttered incomprehensibly,
wagging his head. Two men, perfectly naked, lay in the middle of the place, wounded in bowels
and loins; and at a niche in the weather-boarding, where some pale light peeped in, four mutilated
wretches were gaming with cards. I was now led a little way down the railroad, to see the Confederates.
The rain began to fall at this time, and the poor fellows shut their eyes to avoid the pelting
of the drops. There was no shelter for them within a mile, and the mud absolutely reached half
way up their bodies. Nearly one third had suffered amputation above the knee. There were about
thirty at this spot, and I was told that they were being taken to Meadow Station on hand cars.
As soon as the locomotive could pass the Chickahominy, they would be removed to White House,
and comfortably quartered in the Sanitary and hospital boats. Some of them were fine, athletic,
and youthful, and I was directed to one who had been married only three days before.

"Doctor," said one, feebly, "I feel very cold: do you think that this is death? It seems to
be creeping to my heart. I have no feeling, in my feet, and my thighs are numb."

A Federal soldier came along with a bucket of soup, and proceeded to fill the canteens and
plates. He appeared to be a relative of Mark Tapley, and possessed much of that estimable person's
jollity--

"Come, pardner," he said, "drink yer sup! now, old boy, this'ill warm ye; sock it down and
ye'll see yer sweetheart soon. You dead, Ally-bammy? Go way, now. You'll live a hundred years,
you will. That's wot you'll do. Won't he, lad? What? Not any? Get out! You'll be slap on your
legs next week and hev another shot at me the week a'ter that. You know you will! Oh! you Rebil!
You, with the butternut trousers! Say! Wake up and take some o' this. Hello! lad, pardner.
Wake up!"

He stirred him gently with his foot; he bent down to touch his face. A grimness came over his
merriment. The man was stiff and dumb.

Colonel Baker, commanding the 88th New York, was a tall, martial Irishman, who opened his heart
and bottle at the same welcome, and took me into the woods, where some of the slain still remained.
He had slept not longer than an hour, continuously, for seventy hours, and during the past
night had been called up by eight alarums. His men lay in the dark thickets, without fires
or blankets, as they had crossed the Chickahominy in light marching order.

"Many a lad," said he, "will escape the bullet for a lingering consumption."

We had proceeded but a very little way, when we came to a trodden place beneath the pines,
where a scalp lay in the leaves, and the imprint of a body was plainly visible. The bayonet
scabbard lay at one side, the canteen at the other. We saw no corpses, however, as fatigue
parties had been burying the slain, and the whole wood was dotted with heaps of clay, where
the dead slept below in the oozy trenches. Quantities of cartridges were scattered here and
there, dropped by the retreating Confederates. Some of the cartridge-pouches that I examined
were completely filled, showing that their possessors had not fired a single round; others
had but one cartridge missing. There were fragments of clothing, hair, blankets, murderous
bowie and dirk knives, spurs, flasks, caps, and plumes, dropped all the way through the thicket,
and the trees on every hand were riddled with balls. I came upon a squirrel, unwittingly shot
during the fight. Not those alone who make the war must feel the war! At one of the mounds
the burying party had just completed their work, and the men were throwing the last clods upon
the remains. They had dug pits of not more than two feet depth, and dragged the bodies heedlessly
to the edges, whence they were toppled down and scantily covered. Much of the interring had
been done by night, and the flare of lanterns upon the discolored faces and dead eyes must
have been hideously effective. The grave-diggers, however, were practical personages, and had
probably little care for dramatic effects. They leaned upon their spades, when the rites were
finished, and a large, dry person, who appeared to be privileged upon all occasions, said,
grinningly--

"Colonel, your honor, them boys 'ill niver stand forninst the Irish brigade again. If they'd
ha' known it was us, sur, begorra! they 'ud ha' brought coffins wid 'em."

"No, niver!" "They got their ticket for soup!" "We kivered them, fait', will inough!" shouted
the other grave-diggers.

"Do ye belave, Colonel," said the dry person, again, "that thim ribals'll lave us a chance
to catch them. Be me sowl! I'm jist wishin to war-rum me hands wid rifle practice."

The others echoed loudly, that they were anxious to be ordered up, and some said that "Little
Mac'll give 'em his big whack now." The presence of death seemed to have added no fear of death
to these people. Having tasted blood, they now thirsted for it, and I asked myself, forebodingly,
if a return to civil life would find them less ferocious.

I dined with Colonel Owen of the 69th Pennsylvania (Irish) volunteers. He had been a Philadelphia
lawyer, and was, by all odds, the most consistent and intelligent soldier in the brigade. He
had been also a schoolmaster for many years, but appeared to be in his element at the head
of a regiment, and was generally admitted to be an efficient officer. He shared the prevailing
antipathy to West Point graduates; for at this time the arrogance of the regular officers,
and the pride of the volunteers, had embittered each against the other. His theory of military
education was, the establishment of State institutions, and the reorganization of citizenship
upon a strict militia basis. After dinner, I rode to "Seven Pines," and examined some of the
rifle pits used during the engagement. A portion of this ground only had been retaken, and
I was warned to keep under cover; for sharpshooters lay close by, in the underbrush. A visit
to the graves of some Federal soldiers completed the inspection. Some of the regiments had
interred their dead in trenches; but the New Englanders were all buried separately, and smooth
slabs were driven at the heads of the mounds, whereon were inscribed the names and ages of
the deceased. Some of the graves were freshly sodded, and enclosed by rails and logs. They
evidenced the orderly, religious habits of the sons of the Puritans; for, with all his hardness
of manner and selfishness of purpose, I am inclined to think that the Yankee is the best manifestation
of Northern character. He loves his home, at least, and he reveres his deceased comrades.

When I returned to Michie's, at six o'clock, the man "Pat," with a glowing face, came out to
the gate.

"That's a splendid baste of yours, sur," he said,--"and sich a boi to gallop."

"My horse doesn't generally gallop," I returned, doubtfully.

When I passed to the barn in the rear, I found to my astonishment, a sorrel stallion, magnificently
accoutred. He thrust his foot at me savagely, as I stood behind him, and neighed till he frightened
the spiders.

"Pat," said I, wrathfully, "you have stolen some Colonel's nag, and I shall be hanged for the
theft."

"Fait, sur," said Pat, "my ligs was gone intirely, wid long walkin', and I sazed the furst
iligant baste I come to."

CHAPTER XIII.

STUART'S RAID.

The old Chickahominy bridges were soon repaired, and the whole of Franklin's corps crossed
to the south side. McClellan moved his head-quarters to Dr. Trent's farm, a half-mile from
Michie's, and the latter gentleman's fields and lawn were made white with tents. Among others,
the Chief of Cavalry, Stoneman, pitched his canopy under the young oaks, and the whole reserve
artillery was parked in the woods, close to the house. The engineer brigade encamped in the
adjacent peach-orchard and corn-field, and the wheat was trampled by battery and team-horses.
Smith's division now occupied the hills on the south side of the Chickahominy, and the Federal
line stretched southeastward, through Fairoaks, to White Oak Swamp, seven miles away. Porter's
corps still lay between Mechanicsville and New Bridge, on the north bank of the river, and
my old acquaintances, the Pennsylvania Reserves, had joined the army, and now formed its extreme
right wing. This odd arrangement of forces was a subject of frequent comment: for the right
was thus four miles, and the left fourteen miles, from Richmond. The four corps at once commenced
to entrench, and from Smith's redoubt on the river bluffs, to Casey's entrenched hill at White
Oak, a continuous line of moderately strong earthworks extended. But Porter and the Reserves
were not entrenched at all, and only a few horsemen were picketed across the long reach of
country from Meadow Bridge to Hanover Court House. Both flanks, in fact, were open, and the
left was a day's march from the right. We were, meantime, drawing our supplies from White House,
twenty miles in the rear; there were no railroad guards along the entire line, and about five
companies protected the grand depot. Two gunboats lay in the river, however, and as the teams
still went to and fro, a second depot was established at a place called Putney's or "Garlic,"
five miles above White House. I went often, and at all hours of the day and night, over this
exposed and lonely route. My horse had been, meantime, returned to the Provost Quarters, and
the rightful owner had obtained his stallion in exchange. I rode the said stallion but once,
when he proceeded to walk sideways, and several times rivalled the renowned Pegasus in his
aerial flights. The man named "Pat" essayed to show his paces one day, but the stallion took
him straight into Stoneman's wall-tent, and that officer shook the Irishman blind. My little
bob-tailed brownie was thrice endeared to me by our separation; but I warned the man "Pat"
to keep clear of him thereafter. The man "Pat" was a very eccentric person, who slept on the
porch at Michie's, and used to wake up the house in the small hours, with the story that somebody
was taking the chickens and the horses. He was the most impulsive person that I ever knew,
and when I entrusted despatches to him once, he put them on the hospital boat by mistake, and
they got to New York at the close of the campaign.

Michie's soon became a correspondents' rendezvous, and we have had at one time, at dinner,
twelve representatives of five journals. The Hon. Henry J. Raymond, Ex-Lieutenant Governor
of New York, and proprietor of the Times newspaper, was one of our family for several weeks.
He had been a New Hampshire lad, and, strolling to New York, took to journalism at the age
of nineteen years. His industry and probity obtained him both means and credit, and, also,
what few young journalists obtain, social position. He was the founder of Harper's Magazine,
one of the most successful serials in America, and many English authors are indebted to him
for a trans-Atlantic recognition of their works. He edited an American edition of Jane Eyre
before it had attracted attention in England, and conducted the Courier and Enquirer with great
success for many years. The Times is now the most reputable of the great New York dailies,
and Mr. Raymond has made it influential both at home and abroad. He has retained, amidst his
social and political successes, a predilection for "Bohemia," and became an indefatigable correspondent.
I rode out with him sometimes, and heard, with interest, his accounts of the Italian war, whither
he also went in furtherance of journalism. Among our quill cavalry-men was a fat gentleman
from Philadelphia, who had great fear of death, and who used to "tear" to White House, if the
man "Pat" shot a duck in the garden. He was a hearty, humorous person, however, and an adept
at searching for news.

O'Ganlon rode with me several times to White House, and we have crossed the railroad bridge
together, a hundred feet in the air, when the planks were slippery, the sides sloping, and
the way so narrow that two horses could not pass abreast. He was a true Irishman, and leaped
barricades and ditches without regard to his neck. He had, also, a partiality for by-roads
that led through swamps and close timber. He discovered one day a cow-path between Daker's
and an old Mill at Grapevine Bridge. The long arms of oaks and beech trees reached across it,
and young Absalom might have been ensnared by the locks at every rod therein. Through this
devious and dangerous way, O'Ganlon used to dash, whooping, guiding his horse with marvellous
dexterity, and bantering me to follow. I so far forgot myself generally, as to behave quite
as irrationally, and once returned to Michie's with a bump above my right eye, that rivalled
my head in size. At other times I rode alone, and my favorite route was an unfrequented lane
called the "Quaker Road," that extended from Despatch Station, on the line of rail, to Daker's,
on the New Bridge Road. Much of this way was shut in by thick woods and dreary pine barrens;
but the road was hard and light, and a few quiet farms lay by the roadside. There was a mill,
also, three miles from Daker's, where a turbulent creek crossed the route, and at an oak-wood,
near by, I used to frighten the squirrels, so that they started up by pairs and families; I
have chased them in this way a full mile, and they seemed to know me after a time. We used
to be on the best of terms, and they would, at length, stand their ground saucily, and chatter,
the one with the other, flourishing their bushy appendages, like so many straggling "Bucktails."
When I turned from the beaten road, where the ruts were like a ditch and parapet, and dead
horses blackened the fields; where teams went creaking day and night, and squads of sabremen
drove pale, barefooted prisoners to and fro like swine or cattle, the silence and solitude
of this by-lane were beautiful as sleep. Many of the old people living in this direction had
not seen even a soldier or a sutler, save some mounted scouts that vanished in clouds of dust;
but they had listened with awe to the music of cannon, though they did not know either the
place or the result of the fighting. If fate has ordained me to survive the Rebellion, I shall
some day revisit these localities; they are stamped legibly upon my mind, and I know almost
every old couple in New Kent or Hanover counties. I have lunched at all the little springs
on the road, and eaten corn-bread and bacon at most of the cabins. I have swam the Pamunkey
at dozens of places, and when my finances were low, and my nag hungry, have organized myself
into a company of foragers, and broken into the good people's granaries. I do not know any
position that admitted of as much adventure and variety. There was always enough danger to
make my journeys precariously pleasant, and, when wearied of the saddle, my friends at Daker's
and Michie's had a savory julep and a comfortable bed always prepared. I had more liberty than
General McClellan, and a great deal more comfort.

Mrs. Michie was a warm-hearted, impulsive Virginia lady, with almost New England industry,
and from very scanty materials she contrived to spread a bountiful table. Her coffee was bubbling
with rich cream, and her "yellow pone" was overrunning with butter. A cleanly black girl shook
a fly-brush over our shoulders as we ate, and the curious custom was maintained of sending
a julep to our bedrooms before we rose in the mornings. Our hostess was too hospitable to be
a bitter partisan, and during five weeks of tenure at her residence, we never held an hour's
controversy. She had troubles, but she endured them patiently. She saw, one by one, articles
of property sacrificed or stolen; she heard the servants speaking impudently; and her daughters
and son were in a remote part of the State. The young man was a Confederate Surgeon at Lynchburg,
and the young ladies had taken refuge in Rockbridge County. The latter were, from all accounts,
pretty and intelligent, and one day, as I examined some parcels of books in the parlors, I
found a volume of amateur poems that some laboring bard had dedicated to the youngest of them.
Mr. Michie was a fine old Virginia gentleman, who remembered Thomas Jefferson well, as he had
been reared in that great statesman's village, Charlottesville. He told me many anecdotes of
Patrick Henry, John Randolph, and other distinguished patriots.

I wrote in one of the absent daughter's albums the following lines:--

    Alas! for the pleasant peace we knew,
      In the happy summers of long ago,
    When the rivers were bright, and the skies were blue,
      By the homes of Henrico:
    We dreamed of wars that were far away,
      And read, as in fable, of blood that ran,
    Where the James and Chickahominy stray,
      Through the groves of Powhattan.

    'Tis a dream come true; for the afternoons
      Blow bugles of war, by our fields of grain,
    And the sabres clink, as the dark dragoons
      Come galloping up the lane;
    The pigeons have flown from the eves and tiles,
      The oat-blades have grown to blades of steel,
    And the Huns swarm down the leafy aisles
      Of the grand old Commonweal.

    They have torn the Indian fisher's nets,
      Where flows Pamunkey toward the sea,
    And blood runs red in the rivulets,
      That babbled and brawled in glee;
    The corpses are strewn in Fairoak glades,
      The hoarse guns thunder from Drury's Ridge,
    The fishes that played in the cove, deep shades,
      Are frightened from Bottom Bridge.

    I would that the year were blotted away,
      And the strawberry grew in the hedge again;
    That the scythe might swing in the tangled hay,
      And the squirrel romp in the glen;
    The walnut sprinkle the clover slopes,
      Where graze the sheep and the spotted steer;
    And the winter restore the golden hopes,
      That were trampled in a year.

On Friday, June 13, I made one of my customary trips to White House, in the company of O'Ganlon.
The latter individual, in the course of a "healthy dash" that he made down the railroad ties,--whereby
two shoes shied from his mare's hoofs,--reined into a quicksand that threatened to swallow
his steed. He afterward left his sword at Summit Station, and I, obligingly, rode back three
miles to recover it. We dined at Daker's, where Glumley sat beside the baby-face, pursuant
to his art-duties, and the plump, red-cheeked miss sat beside me. O'Ganlon was entertained
by the talkative daughter, who drove him quite mad; so that, when we resumed our horses, he
insisted upon a second "healthy dash," and disappeared through a strip of woods. I followed,
rationally, and had come to a blacksmith's shop, at the corner of a diverging road, when I
was made aware of some startling occurrence in my rear. A mounted officer dashed past me, shouting
some unintelligible tidings, and he was followed in quick succession by a dozen cavalry-men,
who rode as if the foul fiend was at their heels. Then came a teamster, bare-backed, whose
rent harness trailed in the road, and directly some wagons that were halted before the blacksmith's,
wheeled smartly, and rattled off towards White House.

"What is the matter, my man?" I said to one of these lunatics, hurriedly.

"The Rebels are behind!" he screamed, with white lips, and vanished.

I thought that it might be as well to take some other road, and so struck off, at a dapper
pace, in the direction of the new landing at Putney's or "Garlic." At the same instant I heard
the crack of carbines behind, and they had a magical influence upon my speed. I rode along
a stretch of chestnut and oak wood, attached to the famous Webb estate, and when I came to
a rill that passed by a little bridge, under the way, turned up its sandy bed and buried myself
in the under-brush. A few breathless moments only had intervened, when the roadway seemed shaken
by a hundred hoofs. The imperceptible horsemen yelled like a war-party of Camanches, and when
they had passed, the carbines rang ahead, as if some bloody work was being done at every rod.

I remained a full hour under cover; but as no fresh approaches added to my mystery and fear,
I sallied forth, and kept the route to Putney's, with ears erect and expectant pulses. I had
gone but a quarter of a mile, when I discerned, through the gathering gloom, a black, misshapen
object, standing in the middle of the road. As it seemed motionless, I ventured closer, when
the thing resolved to a sutler's wagon, charred and broken, and still smoking from the incendiaries'
torch. Further on, more of these burned wagons littered the way, and in one place two slain
horses marked the roadside. When I emerged upon the Hanover road, sounds of shrieks and shot
issued from the landing at "Garlic," and, in a moment, flames rose from the woody shores and
reddened the evening. I knew by the gliding blaze that vessels had been fired and set adrift,
and from my place could see the devouring element climbing rope and shroud. In a twinkling,
a second light appeared behind the woods to my right, and the intelligence dawned upon me that
the cars and houses at Tunstall's Station had been burned. By the fitful illumination, I rode
tremulously to the old head-quarters at Black Creek, and as I conjectured, the depot and train
were luridly consuming. The vicinity was marked by wrecked sutler's stores, the embers of wagons,
and toppled steeds. Below Black Creek the ruin did not extend: but when I came to White House
the greatest confusion existed. Sutlers were taking down their booths, transports were slipping
their cables, steamers moving down the stream. Stuart had made the circuit of the Grand Army
to show Lee where the infantry could follow.

CHAPTER XIV.

FEVER DREAMS IN WAR.

A subtle enemy had of late joined the Confederate cause against the invaders. He was known
as Pestilence, and his footsteps were so soft that neither scout nor picket could bar his entrance.
His paths were subterranean,--through the tepid swamp water, the shallow graves of the dead;
and aerial,--through the stench of rotting animals, the nightly miasms of bog and fen. His
victims were not pierced, or crushed, or mangled, but their deaths were not less terrible,
because more lingering. They seemed to wither and shrivel away; their eyes became at first
very bright, and afterward lustreless; their skins grew hard and sallow; their lips faded to
a dry whiteness; all the fluids of the body were consumed; and they crumbled to corruption
before life had fairly gone from them.

This visitation has been, by common consent, dubbed "the Chickahominy fever," and some have
called it the typhus fever. The troops called it the "camp fever," and it was frequently aggravated
by affections of the bowels and throat. The number of persons that died with it was fabulous.
Some have gone so far as to say that the army could have better afforded the slaughter of twenty
thousand men, than the delay on the Chickahominy. The embalmers were now enjoying their millennium,
and a steam coffin manufactory was erected at White House, where twenty men worked day and
night, turning out hundreds of pine boxes. I had, occasion, in one of my visits to the depot,
to repair to the tent of one of the embalmers. He was a sedate, grave person, and when I saw
him, standing over the nude, hard corpse, he reminded me of the implacable vulture, looking
into the eyes of Prometheus. His battery and tube were pulsing, like one's heart and lungs,
and the subject was being drained at the neck. I compared the discolored body with the figure
of Ianthe, as revealed in Queen Mab, but failed to see the beautifulness of death.

"If you could only make him breathe, Professor," said an officer standing by.

The dry skin of the embalmer broke into chalky dimples, and he grinned very much as a corpse
might do:--

"Ah!" he said, "then there would be money made."

To hear these embalmers converse with each other was like listening to the witch sayings in
Macbeth. It appeared that the arch-fiend of embalming was a Frenchman named Sonça, or something
of that kind, and all these worthies professed to have purchased his "system." They told grisly
anecdotes of "operations," and experimented with chemicals, and congratulated each other upon
the fever. They would, I think, have piled the whole earth with catacombs of stony corpses,
and we should have no more green graves, but keep our dead with us as household ornaments.

The negroes did not suffer with the fever, although their quarters were close and filthy. Their
Elysium had come; there was no more work. They slept and danced and grinned, and these three
actions made up the sum of their existence. Such people to increase and multiply I never beheld.
There were scores of new babies every day; they appeared to be born by twins and triplets;
they learned to walk in twenty-four hours; and their mothers were strong and hearty in less
time. Such soulless, lost, degraded men and women did nowhere else exist. The divinity they
never had; the human they had forgotten; they did no great wrongs,--thieving, quarrelling,
deceiving,--but they failed to do any rights, and their worship was animal, and almost profane.
They sang incongruous mixtures of hymns and field songs:--

    "Oh! bruddern, watch an' pray, watch an' pray!
    De harvest am a ripenin' our Lord an' Marser say!
      Oh! ho! yo! dat ole coon, de serpent, ho! oh!
                        Watch an' pray!"

I have heard them sing such medleys with tears in their eyes, apparently fervid and rapt. A
very gray old man would lead off, keeping time to the words with his head and hands; the mass
joining in at intervals, and raising a screaming alleluja. Directly they would all rise, link
hands, and proceed to dance the accompaniment. The motion would be slow at first, and the method
of singing maintained; after a time they would move more rapidly, shouting the lines together;
and suddenly becoming convulsed with strange excitement, they would toss up their arms, leap,
fall, groan, and, seemingly, lose consciousness. Their prayers were earnest and vehement, but
often degenerated to mere howls and noises. Some of both sexes had grand voices, that rang
like bugles, and the very impropriety of their music made it fascinating. It used to seem to
me that any of the great composers might have borrowed advantageously some of those original
negro airs. In many cases, their owners came within the lines, registered their allegiance,
and recovered the negroes. These were often veritable Shylocks, that claimed their pounds of
flesh, with unblushing reference to the law. The poor Africs went back cowed and tearful, and
it is probable that they were afterward sent to the far South, that terrible terra incognita
to a border slave.

Among the houses to which I resorted was that of a Mr. Hill, one mile from White House. He
had a thousand acres of land and a valuable fishery on the Pamunkey. The latter was worth,
in good seasons, two thousand dollars a year. He had fished and farmed with negroes; but these
had leagued to run away, and he sent them across the river to a second farm that he owned in
King William County. It was at Hill's house that the widow Custis was visiting when young Washington
reined at the gate, on his road to Williamsburg. With reverent feelings I used to regard the
old place, and Hill frequently stole away from his formidable military household, to talk with
me on the front porch. Perhaps in the same moonlights, with the river shimmering at their feet,
and the grapevine shadowing the creaky corners,--their voices softened, their chairs drawn
very close, their hands touching with a thrill,--the young soldier and his affianced had made
their courtship. I sometimes sat breathless, thinking that their figures had come back, and
that I heard them whispering.

Hill was a Virginian,--large, hospitable, severe, proud,--and once I ventured to speak upon
the policy of slavery, with a view to develop his own relation to the "institution." He said,
with the swaggering manner of his class, that slavery was a "domestic" institution, and that
therefore no political law could reach it. I insinuated, quietly, that no political law should
therefore sustain it, and took exception to the idea that what was domestic was therefore without
the province of legislation. When I exampled polygamy, Hill became passionate, and asked if
I was an abolitionist. I opined that I was not, and he so far relented as to say that slavery
was sanctioned by divine and human laws; that it was ultimately to be embraced by all white
nationalities, and that the Caucasian was certain, in the end, to subjugate and possess every
other race. He pointed, with some shrewdness, to the condition of the Chinese in California
and Australia, and epitomized the gradual enslaving of the Mongol and Malay in various quarters
of the world.

"As to our treatment of niggers," he said, curtly, "I never prevaricate, as some masters do,
in that respect. I whip my niggers when they want it! If they are saucy, or careless, or lazy,
I have 'em flogged. About twice a year every nigger has to be punished. If they ain't roped
over twice a year, they take on airs and want to be gentlemen. A nigger is bound by no sentiment
of duty or affection. You must keep him in trim by fear."

Among the victims of the swamp fever, were Major Larrabee, and Lieutenant-Colonel Emory, of
the Fifth Wisconsin regiment; I had been indebted to them for many a meal and draught of spirits.
I had talked with each of them, when the camps were darkened and the soldiery asleep. Larrabee
was a soldier by nature,--adventurous, energetic, intrepid, aggressive. He had been a country
Judge in Wisconsin, and afterwards a member of Congress. When the war commenced, he enlisted
as a common soldier, but public sentiment forced the State Government to make him a Major.
Emory was a mild, reflective, unimpassioned gentleman,--too modest to be eminent, too scrupulous
to be ambitious. The men were opposites, but both capital companions, and they were seized
with the fever about the same time. The Major was removed to White House, and I visited him
one day in the hospital quarters. Surgeon General Watson, hospital commandant, took me through
the quarters; there was quite a town of sick men; they lay in wall-tents--about twenty in a
tent,--and there were daily deaths; those that caught the fever, were afterwards unfit for
duty, as they took relapses on resuming the field. The tents were pitched in a damp cornfield;
for the Federals so reverenced their national shrines, that they forbade White House and lawn
to be used for hospital purposes. Under the best circumstances, a field hospital is a comfortless
place; but here the sun shone like a furnace upon the tents, and the rains drowned out the
inmates. If a man can possibly avoid it, let him never go to the hospital: for he will be called
a "skulker," or a "shyster," that desires to escape the impending battle. Twenty hot, feverish,
tossing men, confined in a small tent, like an oven, and exposed to contumely and bad food,
should get a wholesome horror of war and glory.

So far as I could observe and learn, the authorities at White House carried high heads, and
covetous hands. In brief, they lived like princes, and behaved like knaves. There was one--whose
conduct has never been investigated--who furnished one of the deserted mansions near by, and
brought a lady from the North to keep it in order. He drove a span that rivalled anything in
Broadway, and his wines were luscious. His establishment reminded me of that of Napoleon III.
in the late Italian war, and yet, this man was receiving merely a Colonel's pay. My impression
is that everybody at White House robbed the Government, and in the end, to cover their delinquencies,
these scoundrels set fire to an immense quantity of stores, and squared their accounts thus:
"Burned on the Pamunkey, June 28, commissary, quartermaster's, and hospital stores, one million
dollars."

The time was now drawing to a close that I should pass amid the familiar scenes of this region.
The good people at Daker's were still kindly; but having climbed into the great bed one night,
I found my legs aching, my brain violently throbbing, my chest full of pain and my eyes weak.
When I woke in the morning my lips were fevered, I could eat nothing, and when I reached my
saddle, it seemed that I should faint. In a word, the Chickahominy fever had seized upon me.
My ride to New Bridge was marked by great agony, and during much of the time I was quite blind.
I turned off, at Gaines's Mill, to rest at Captain Kingwalt's; but the old gentleman was in
the grip of the ague, and I forebore to trouble him with a statement of my grievances. Skyhiski
made me a cup of tea, which I could not drink, and Fogg made me lie on his "poncho." It was
like old times come back, to hear them all speak cheerfully, and the man Clover said that if
there "warn't" a battle soon, he knew what he'd do, he did! he'd go home, straight as a buck!

"Becoz," said the man Clover, flourishing his hands, "I volunteered to fight. To fight, sir!
not to dig and drive team. Here we air, sir, stuck in the mud, burnin' with fever, livin' on
hardtack. And thair's Richmond! Just thair! You can chuck a stone at it, if you mind to. A'ter
awhile them rebbils'll pop out, and fix us. Why ain't we led up, sa-a-y?"

The man Clover represented common sentiment among the troops at this time; but I told him that
in all probability he would soon be gratified with a battle. My prediction was so far correct,
that when I met the man Clover on the James River, a week afterward, he said, with a rueful
countenance--

"Sa-a-a-y! It never rains but it pours, does it?"

As I rode from the camp of the Pennsylvania Reserves, at noon, on the 21st of June, I seemed
to feel a gloomy premonition of the calamities that were shortly to fall upon the "Army of
the Potomac." I passed in front of Hogan house; through the wood above the mill; along Gaines's
Lane, between his mansion and his barn; across a creek, tributary to the Chickahominy; and
up the ploughed hills by a military road, toward Grapevine Bridge. Lieutenant-Colonel Heath,
of the Fifth Maine Regiment, was riding with me, and we stopped at the tip of an elevated field
to look back upon the scene. I was very sick and weary, and I lay my head upon the mane of
my nag, while Heath threw a leg across his saddle pommel, and straightened his slight figure;
we both gazed earnestly.

The river lay in the hollow or ravine to the left, and a few farm-houses sat among the trees
on the hill-tops beyond. A battery was planted at each house, and we could see the lines of
red-clay parapets marking the sites. From the roof of one of the houses floated a speck of
canvas,--the revolutionary flag. A horseman or two moved shadow-like across a slope of yellow
grain. Before and back the woods belted the landscape, and some pickets of both sides paced
the river brink: they did not fire upon each other.

Our side of the Chickahominy was not less peaceful. A couple of batteries lay below us, in
the meadows; but the horses were dozing in the harness, and the gunners, standing bolt upright
at the breech, seemed parts of their pieces; the teamsters lay grouped in the long grass. Immediately
in front, Gaines's Mansion and outhouses spotted a hillside, and we could note beyond a few
white tents shining through the trees. The roof of the old mill crouched between a medley of
wavy fields and woods, to our right, and just at our feet a tiny rill divided Gaines's Mill
from our own. Behind us, over the wilderness of swamp and bog-timber, rose Smith's redoubt,
with the Federal flag flaunting from the rampart.

"Townsend," said Heath, as he swept the whole country with his keen eye, "do you know that
we are standing upon historic ground?"

He had been a poet and an orator, and he seemed to feel the solemnity of the place.

"It may become historic to-morrow," I replied.

"It is so to-day," he said, earnestly; "not from battle as yet; that may or may not happen;
but in the pause before the storm there is something grand; and this is the pause."

He took his soft beaver in his hand, and his short red hair stood pugnaciously back from his
fine forehead.

"The men that have been here already," he added, "consecrated the place; young McClellan, and
bluff, bull-headed Franklin; the one-armed devil, Kearney, and handsome Joe Hooker; gray, gristly
Heintzelman; white-bearded, insane Sumner; Stuart, Lee, Johnston, the Hills----"

"Why not," said I, laughingly, "Eric the red,--the redoubtable Heath!"

"Why not?" he said, with a flourish; "Fate may have something in store for me, as well as for
these."

I have thought, since, how terribly our light conversation found verification in fact. If I
had said to Heath, that, at the very moment, Jefferson Davis and his Commander-in-chief were
sitting in the dwelling opposite, reconnoitring and consulting; that, even now, their telescopes
were directed upon us; that the effect of their counsel was to be manifest in less than a week;
that one of the bloodiest battles of modern times was to be fought beside and around us; that
six days of the most terrible fighting known in history were to ensue; that my friend and comrade
was standing upon the same clods which would be reddened, at his next coming, with his heart's
blood; and that the trenches were to yawn beneath his hoofs, to swallow himself and his steed,--if
I had foretold these things as they were to occur, I wonder if the "pause before the storm"
would have been less awful, and our ride campward less sedate. Poor Heath! Gallant New Englander!
he called at my bedside, the sixth day following, as I lay full of pain, fear, and fever, and
after he bade me good by, I heard his horse's hoofs ringing down the lane. Ten minutes afterward
he was shot through the head.

When I reached Michie's, at three o'clock, I had to be helped from the saddle, and the fever
was raging in my whole body before nightfall. My hands were flushed, my face hot, but my feet
were quite cold, and I was seized with chills that seemed to shake my teeth from my head. Mrs.
Michie made me a bowl of scorching tea, and one of the black-girls bathed my limbs in boiling
water. The fever dreams came to me that night, in snatches of burning sleep, and toward morning
I lay restlessly awake, moving from side to side, famishing for drink, but rejecting it, when
they brought it to my lips. The next day, my kind hostess gave me some nourishing soup, but
after a vain effort to partake of it, I was compelled to put it aside. O'Ganlon procured some
pickled fruit and vegetables from a sutler, which I ate voraciously, quaffing the vinegar like
wine. Some of my regimental friends heard of my illness, and they sent me quiet luxuries, which
gladdened me, though I did not eat. During the day I had some moments of ease, when I tried
to read. There was a copy of Wordsworth's poems in the house, and I used to repeat stanzas
from "Peter Bell," till they rang, in eddies of rhyme, through my weak brain, and continued
to scan and jangle far into the nights. Some of these fever-dreams were like delusions in delirium:
peopled with monsters, that grinned and growled. Little black globules used to leer from corners,
and after a time they began to revolve toward me, increasing as they came, and at length rolling
like mountains of surge. I frequently woke with a scream, and found my body in profuse perspiration.
There were fiery snakes, also, that, at first, moved slowly around me, and I followed them
with red and terrified eyes. After awhile they flashed in circles of lightning, and hissed
showers of sparks, until I became quite crazed with fear. The most horrible apparitions used
to come to my bedside, and if I dropped to sleep with any thought half formed or half developed,
the odd half of that thought became impregnated, somehow, and straightway loomed up a goblin,
or a giant, or a grotesque something, that proceeded to torture me, like a sort of Frankenstein,
for having made it. Amid all these ghastly things, there came beautiful glimpses of form, scene,
and sensation, that straightway changed to horrors. I remember, for example, that I was gliding
down a stream, where the boughs overhead were as shady as the waters, and there were holy eyes
that seemed to cool my fever; but suddenly the stream became choked with corpses, that entangled
their dead limbs with mine, until I strangled and called aloud,--waking up O'Ganlon and some
reporters who proposed to give me morphine, that I might not alarm the house.

How the poor soldiers fared, in the hot hospitals, I shudder to think; but a more merciful
decree spared my life, and kind treatment met me at every hand. Otherwise, I believe, I should
not be alive to-day to write this story; for the fever had seized me in its severest form,
and I had almost tutored myself to look upon my end, far from my home and on the very eve of
my manhood.

O'Ganlon, at last, resolved to send me to White House, and started thither one day, to obtain
a berth for me upon a Sanitary steamer. The next day an ambulance came to the door. I tried
to sit up in bed, and succeeded; I feebly robed myself and staggered to the stairs. I crawled,
rather than walked, to the hall below; but when I took a chair, and felt the cool breeze from
the oaks fanning my hair, I seemed to know that I should get well.

"Boom! Boom! Boom!" pealed some cannon at the moment, and all the windows shook with the concussion.

Directly we heard volleys of musketry, and then the camps were astir. Horses went hither and
thither; signal flags flashed to-and-fro; a battery of the Reserve Artillery dashed down the lane.

I felt my strength coming back with the excitement; I even smiled feebly as the guns thundered
past.

"Take away your ambulance, old fellow," I said, "I shan't go home till I see a battle."

CHAPTER XV.

TWO DAYS OF BATTLE.

The Confederates had been waiting two months for McClellan's advance. Emboldened by his delay
they had gathered the whole of their available strength from remote Tennessee, from the Mississippi,
and from the coast, until, confident and powerful, they crossed Meadow Bridge on the 26th of
June, 1862, and drove in our right wing at Mechanicsville. The reserves of Gen. McCall were
stationed here; they made a wavering resistance,--wherein four companies of Bucktails were
captured bodily,--and fell back at nightfall upon Porter's Corps, at Gaines's Mill. Fitz John
Porter commanded the brigades of Gens. Sykes and Morrell,--the former made up solely of regulars.
He appeared to have been ignorant of the strength of the attacking party, and he telegraphed
to McClellan, early on Thursday evening, that he required no reinforcements, and that he could
hold his ground. The next morning he was attacked in front and flank; Stewart's cavalry fell
on his right, and turned it at Old Church. He formed at noon in new line of battle, from Gaines's
House, along the Mill Road to New Coal Harbor; but stubbornly persisted in the belief that
he could not be beaten. By three o'clock he had been driven back two miles, and all his energies
were unavailing to recover a foot of ground. He hurled lancers and cavalry upon the masses
of Jackson and the Hills, but the butternut infantry formed impenetrable squares, hemmed in
with rods of steel, and as the horsemen galloped around them, searching for previous points,
they were swept from their saddles with volleys of musketry. He directed the terrible fire
of his artillery upon them, but though the gray footmen fell in heaps, they steadily advanced,
closing up the gaps, and their lines were like long stretches of blaze and ball. Their fire
never slackened nor abated. They loaded and moved forward, column on column, like so many immortals
that could not be vanquished. The scene from the balloon, as Lowe informed me, was awful beyond
all comparison,--of puffing shells and shrieking shrapnel, with volleys that shattered the
hills and filled the air with deathly whispers. Infantry, artillery, and horse turned the Federal
right from time to time, and to preserve their order of battle the whole line fell back toward
Grapevine Bridge. At five o'clock Slocum's Division of volunteers crossed the creek from the
south side, and made a desperate dash upon the solid columns of the Confederates. At the same
time Toombs's Georgia Brigade charged Smith's redoubt from the south side, and there was a
probability of the whole of both armies engaging before dark.

My fever of body had so much relinquished to my fever of mind, that at three o'clock I called
for my horse, and determined to cross the bridge, that I might witness the battle.

It was with difficulty that I could make my way along the narrow corduroy, for hundreds of
wounded were limping from the field to the safe side, and ammunition wagons were passing the
other way, driven by reckless drivers who should have been blown up momentarily. Before I had
reached the north side of the creek, an immense throng of panic-stricken people came surging
down the slippery bridge. A few carried muskets, but I saw several wantonly throw their pieces
into the flood, and as the mass were unarmed, I inferred that they had made similar dispositions.
Fear, anguish, cowardice, despair, disgust, were the predominant expressions of the upturned
faces. The gaunt trees, towering from the current, cast a solemn shadow upon the moving throng,
and as the evening dimness was falling around them, it almost seemed that they were engulfed
in some cataract. I reined my horse close to the side of a team, that I might not be borne
backward by the crowd; but some of the lawless fugitives seized him by the bridle, and others
attempted to pull me from the saddle.

"Gi' up that hoss!" said one, "what business you got wi' a hoss?"

"That's my critter, and I am in for a ride; so you get off!" said another.

I spurred my pony vigorously with the left foot, and with the right struck the man at the bridle
under the chin. The thick column parted left and right, and though a howl of hate pursued me,
I kept straight to the bank, cleared the swamp, and took the military route parallel with the
creek, toward the nearest eminence. At every step of the way I met wounded persons. A horseman
rode past me, leaning over his pommel, with blood streaming from his mouth and hanging in gouts
from his saturated beard. The day had been intensely hot and black boys were besetting the
wounded with buckets of cool lemonade. It was a common occurrence for the couples that carried
the wounded on stretchers to stop on the way, purchase a glass of the beverage, and drink it.
Sometimes the blankets on the stretchers were closely folded, and then I knew that the man
within was dead. A little fellow, who used his sword for a cane, stopped me on the road, and said--

"See yer! This is the ball that jes' fell out o' my boot."

He handed me a lump of lead as big as my thumb, and pointed to a rent in his pantaloons, whence
the drops rolled down his boots.

"I wouldn't part with that for suthin' handsome," he said; "it'll be nice to hev to hum."

As I cantered away he shouted after me--

"Be sure you spell my name right! it's Smith, with an 'E'--S-M-I-T-H-E."

In one place I met five drunken men escorting a wounded sergeant; the latter had been shot
in the jaw, and when he attempted to speak, the blood choked his articulation.

"You let go him, pardner," said one of the staggering brutes, "he's not your sergeant. Go 'way!"

"Now, sergeant," said the other, idiotically, "I'll see you all right, sergeant. Come, Bill,
fetch him over to the corn-crib and we'll give him a drink."

Here the first speaker struck the second, and the sergeant, in wrath, knocked them both down.
All this time the enemy's cannon were booming close at hand.

I came to an officer of rank, whose shoulder-emblem I could not distinguish, riding upon a
limping field-horse. Four men held him to his seat, and a fifth led the animal. The officer
was evidently wounded, though he did not seem to be bleeding, and the dust of battle had settled
upon his blanched, stiffening face, like grave-mould upon a corpse. He was swaying in the saddle,
and his hair--for he was bare-headed--shook across his white eyeballs. He reminded me of the
famous Cid, whose body was sent forth to scare the Saracens.

A mile or more from Grapevine Bridge, on a hill-top, lay a frame farm-house, with cherry trees
encircling it, and along the declivity of the hill were some cabins, corn-sheds, and corn-bins.
The house was now a Surgeon's headquarters, and the wounded lay in the yard and lane, under
the shade, waiting their turns to be hacked and maimed. I caught a glimpse through the door,
of the butchers and their victims; some curious people were peeping through the windows at
the operation. As the processions of freshly wounded went by, the poor fellows, lying on their
backs, looked mutely at me, and their great eyes smote my heart.

Something has been written in the course of the war upon straggling from the ranks, during
battle. But I have seen nothing that conveys an adequate idea of the number of cowards and
idlers that so stroll off. In this instance, I met squads, companies, almost regiments of them.
Some came boldly along the road; others skulked in woods, and made long detours to escape detection;
a few were composedly playing cards, or heating their coffee, or discussing the order and consequences
of the fight. The rolling drums, the constant clatter of file and volley-firing,--nothing could
remind them of the requirements of the time and their own infamy. Their appreciation of duty
and honor seemed to have been forgotten; neither hate, ambition, nor patriotism could force
them back; but when the columns of mounted provosts charged upon them, they sullenly resumed
their muskets and returned to the field. At the foot of the hill to which I have referred the
ammunition wagons lay in long lines, with the horses' heads turned from the fight. A little
beyond stood the ambulances; and between both sets of vehicles, fatigue-parties were going
and returning to and from the field. At the top of the next hill sat many of the Federal batteries,
and I was admonished by the shriek of shells that passed over my head and burst far behind
me, that I was again to look upon carnage and share the perils of the soldier.

The question at once occurred to me: Can I stand fire? Having for some months penned daily
paragraphs relative to death, courage, and victory, I was surprised to find that those words
were now unusually significant. "Death" was a syllable to me before; it was a whole dictionary
now. "Courage" was natural to every man a week ago; it was rarer than genius to-day. "Victory"
was the first word in the lexicon of youth yesterday noon; "discretion" and "safety" were at
present of infinitely more consequence. I resolved, notwithstanding these qualms, to venture
to the hill-top: but at every step flitting projectiles took my breath. The music of the battle-field,
I have often thought, should be introduced in opera. Not the drum, the bugle, or the fife,
though these are thrilling, after their fashion; but the music of modern ordnance and projectile,
the beautiful whistle of the minie-ball, the howl of shell that makes unearthly havoc with
the air, the whiz-z-z of solid shot, the chirp of bullets, the scream of grape and canister,
the yell of immense conical cylinders, that fall like redhot stoves and spout burning coals.

All these passed over, beside, beneath, before, behind me. I seemed to be an invulnerable something
at whom some cunning juggler was tossing steel, with an intent to impinge upon, not to strike
him. I rode like one with his life in his hand, and, so far as I remember, seemed to think
of nothing. No fear, per se; no regret; no adventure; only expectancy. It was the expectancy
of a shot, a choking, a loud cry, a stiffening, a dead, dull tumble, a quiver, and--blindness.
But with this was mingled a sort of enjoyment, like that of the daring gamester, who has played
his soul and is waiting for the decision of the cards. I felt all his suspense, more than his
hope; and withal, there was excitement in the play. Now a whistling ball seemed to pass just
under my ear, and before I commenced to congratulate myself upon the escape, a shell, with
a showery and revolving fuse, appeared to take the top off my head. Then my heart expanded
and contracted, and somehow I found myself conning rhymes. At each clipping ball,--for I could
hear them coming,--a sort of coldness and paleness rose to the very roots of my hair, and was
then replaced by a hot flush. I caught myself laughing, syllabically, and shrugging my shoulders,
fitfully. Once, the rhyme that came to my lips--for I am sure there was no mind in the iteration--was
the simple nursery prayer--

    "Now I lay me down to sleep,"

I continued to say "down to sleep," "down to sleep," "down to sleep," till I discovered myself,
when I ceased. Then a shell, apparently just in range, dashed toward me, and the words spasmodically
leaped up: "Now's your time. This is your billet." With the same insane pertinacity I continued
to repeat "Now's your time, now's your time," and "billet, billet, billet," till at last I
came up to the nearest battery, where I could look over the crest of the hill; and as if I
had looked into the crater of a volcano, or down the fabled abyss into hell, the whole grand
horror of a battle burst upon my sight. For a moment I could neither feel nor think. I scarcely
beheld, or beholding did not understand or perceive. Only the roar of guns, the blaze that
flashed along a zigzag line and was straightway smothered in smoke, the creek lying glassily
beneath me, the gathering twilight, and the brownish blue of woods! I only knew that some thousands
of fiends, were playing with fire and tossing brands at heaven,--that some pleasant slopes,
dells, and highlands were lit as if the conflagration of universes had commenced.

"And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth."--Revelation, ix. 2, 3.

In a few moments, when I was able to compose myself, the veil of cloud blew away or dissolved,
and I could see fragments of the long columns of infantry. Then from the far end of the lines
puffed smoke, and from man to man the puff ran down each line, enveloping the columns again,
so that they were alternately visible and invisible. At points between the masses of infantry
lay field-pieces, throbbing with rapid deliveries, and emitting volumes of white steam. Now
and then the firing slackened for a short time, when I could remark the Federal line, fringed
with bayonets, stretching from the low meadow on the left, up the slope, over the ridge, up
and down the crest, until its right disappeared in the gloaming of wood and distance. Standards
flapped here and there above the column, and I knew, from the fact that the line became momentarily
more distinct, that the Federals were falling stubbornly back. At times a battery would dash
a hundred yards forward, unlimber, and fire a score of times, and directly would return two
hundred yards and blaze again. I saw a regiment of lancers gather at the foot of a protecting
swell of field; the bugle rang thrice, the red pennons went upward like so many song birds,
the mass turned the crest and disappeared, then the whole artillery belched and bellowed. In
twenty minutes a broken, straggling, feeble group of horsemen returned; the red pennons still
fluttered, but I knew that they were redder for the blood that dyed them. Finally, the Federal
infantry fell back to the foot of the hill on which I stood; all the batteries were clustering
around me, and suddenly a column of men shot up from the long sweep of the abandoned hill,
with batteries on the left and right. Their muskets were turned towards us, a crash and a whiff
of smoke swept from flank to flank, and the air around me rained buck, slug, bullet, and ball!

The incidents that now occurred in rapid succession were so thrilling and absorbing that my
solicitude was lost in their grandeur. I sat like one dumb, with my soul in my eyes and my
ears stunned, watching the terrible column of Confederates. Each party was now straining every
energy,--the one for victory, the other against annihilation. The darkness was closing in,
and neither cared to prolong the contest after night. The Confederates, therefore, aimed to
finish their success with the rout or capture of the Federals, and the Federals aimed to maintain
their ground till nightfall. The musketry was close, accurate, and uninterrupted. Every second
was marked by a discharge,--the one firing, the other replying promptly. No attempt was now
made to remove the wounded; the coolness of the fight had gone by, and we witnessed only its
fury. The stragglers seemed to appreciate the desperate emergency, and came voluntarily back
to relieve their comrades. The cavalry was massed, and collected for another grand charge.
Like a black shadow gliding up the darkening hillside, they precipitated themselves upon the
columns: the musketry ceased for the time, and shrieks, steel strokes, the crack of carbines
and revolvers succeeded. Shattered, humiliated, sullen, the horse wheeled and returned. Then
the guns thundered again, and by the blaze of the pieces, the clods and turf were revealed,
fitfully strewn with men and horses.

The vicinity of my position now exhibited traces of the battle. A caisson burst close by, and
I heard the howl of dying wretches, as the fires flashed like meteors. A solid shot struck
a field-carriage not thirty yards from my feet, and one of the flying splinters spitted a gunner
as if he had been pierced by an arrow. An artillery-man was standing with folded arms so near
that I could have reached to touch him; a whistle and a thumping shock and he fell beneath
my nag's head. I wonder, as I calmly recall these episodes now, how I escaped the death that
played about me, chilled me, thrilled me,--but spared me! "They are fixing bayonets for a charge.
My God! See them come down the hill."

In the gathering darkness, through the thick smoke, I saw or seemed to see the interminable
column roll steadily downward. I fancied that I beheld great gaps cut in their ranks though
closing solidly up, like the imperishable Gorgon. I may have heard some of this next day, and
so confounded the testimonies of eye and ear. But I knew that there was a charge, and that
the drivers were ordered to stand by their saddles, to run off the guns at any moment. The
descent and bottom below me, were now all ablaze, and directly above the din of cannon, rifle,
and pistol, I heard a great cheer, as of some salvation achieved.

"The Rebels are repulsed! We have saved the guns!"

A cheer greeted this announcement from the battery-men around me. They reloaded, rammed, swabbed,
and fired, with naked arms, and drops of sweat furrowed the powder-stains upon their faces.
The horses stood motionless, quivering not half so much as the pieces. The gristly officers
held to their match-strings, smothering the excitement of the time. All at once there was a
running hither and thither, a pause in the thunder, a quick consultation--

"'Sdeath! They have flanked us again."

In an instant I seemed overwhelmed with men. For a moment I thought the enemy had surrounded us.

"It's all up," said one; "I shall cross the river."

I wheeled my horse, fell in with the stream of fugitives, and was borne swiftly through field
and lane and trampled fence to the swampy margin of the Chickahominy. At every step the shell
fell in and among the fugitives, adding to their panic. I saw officers who had forgotten their
regiments or had been deserted by them, wending with the mass. The wounded fell and were trodden
upon. Personal exhibitions of valor and determination there were; but the main body had lost
heart, and were weary and hungry.

As we approached the bridge, there was confusion and altercation ahead. The people were borne
back upon me. Curses and threats ensued.

"It is the Provost-guard," said a fugitive, "driving back the boys."

"Go back!" called a voice ahead. "I'll blow you to h--ll, if you don't go back! Not a man shall
cross the bridge without orders!"

The stragglers were variously affected by this intelligence. Some cursed and threatened; some
of the wounded blubbered as they leaned languidly upon the shoulders of their comrades. Others
stoically threw themselves on the ground and tried to sleep. One man called aloud that the
"boys" were stronger than the Provosts, and that, therefore, the "boys" ought to "go in and win."

"Where's the man that wants to mutiny?" said the voice ahead; "let me see him!"

The man slipped away; for the Provost officer spoke as though he meant all he said.

"Nobody wants to mutiny!" called others.

"Three cheers for the Union."

The wounded and well threw up their hats together, and made a sickly hurrah. The grim officer
relented, and he shouted stentoriously that he would take the responsibility of passing the
wounded. These gathered themselves up and pushed through the throng; but many skulkers plead
injuries, and so escaped. When I attempted to follow, on horseback, hands were laid upon me
and I was refused exit. In that hour of terror and sadness, there were yet jests and loud laughter.
However keenly I felt these things, I had learned that modesty amounted to little in the army;
so I pushed my nag steadily forward and scattered the camp vernacular, in the shape of imprecations,
left and right.

"Colonel," I called to the officer in command, as the line of bayonets edged me in, "may I
pass out? I am a civilian!"

"No!" said the Colonel, wrathfully. "This is no place for a civilian."

"That's why I want to get away."

"Pass out!"

I followed the winding of the woods to Woodbury's Bridge,--the next above Grapevine Bridge.
The approaches were clogged with wagons and field-pieces, and I understood that some panic-stricken
people had pulled up some of the timbers to prevent a fancied pursuit. Along the sides of the
bridge many of the wounded were washing their wounds in the water, and the cries of the teamsters
echoed weirdly through the trees that grew in the river. At nine o'clock, we got under way,--horsemen,
batteries, ambulances, ammunition teams, infantry, and finally some great siege 32s. that had
been hauled from Gaines's House. One of these pieces broke down the timbers again, and my impression
is that it was cast into the current. When we emerged from the swamp timber, the hills before
us were found brilliantly illuminated with burning camps. I made toward head-quarters, in one
of Trent's fields; but all the tents save one had been taken down, and lines of white-covered
wagons stretched southward until they were lost in the shadows. The tent of General McClellan
alone remained, and beneath an arbor of pine boughs, close at hand, he sat, with his Corps
Commanders and Aides, holding a council of war. A ruddy fire lit up the historical group, and
I thought at the time, as I have said a hundred times since, that the consultation might be
selected for a grand national painting. The crisis, the hour, the adjuncts, the renowned participants,
peculiarly fit it for pictorial commemoration.

The young commander sat in a chair, in full uniform, uncovered. Heintzelman was kneeling upon
a fagot, earnestly speaking. De Joinville sat apart, by the fire, examining a map. Fitz John
Porter was standing back of McClellan, leaning upon his chair. Keyes, Franklin, and Sumner,
were listening attentively. Some sentries paced to and fro, to keep out vulgar curiosity. Suddenly,
there was a nodding of heads, as of some policy decided; they threw themselves upon their steeds,
and galloped off toward Michie's.

As I reined at Michie's porch, at ten o'clock, the bridges behind me were blown up, with a
flare that seemed a blazing of the Northern Lights. The family were sitting upon the porch,
and Mrs. Michie was greatly alarmed with the idea that a battle would be fought round her house
next day.

O'Ganlon, of Meagher's staff, had taken the fever, and sent anxiously for me, to compare our
symptoms.

I bade the good people adieu before I went to bed, and gave the man "Pat" a dollar to stand
by my horse while I slept, and to awake me at any disturbance, that I might be ready to scamper.
The man "Pat," I am bound to say, woke me up thrice by the exclamation of--

"Sure, yer honor, there's--well--to pay in the yard! I think ye and the Doctor had better ride
off."

On each of those occasions, I found that the man Pat had been lonesome, and wanted somebody
to speak to.

What a sleep was mine that night! I forgot my fever. But another and a hotter fever burned
my temples,--the fearful excitement of the time! Whither were we to go, cut off from the York,
beaten before Richmond,--perhaps even now surrounded,--and to be butchered to-morrow, till
the clouds should rain blood? Were we to retreat one hundred miles down the hostile Peninsula,--a
battle at every rod, a grave at every footstep? Then I remembered the wounded heaped at Gaines's
Mill, and how they were groaning without remedy, ebbing at every pulse, counting the flashing
drops, calling for water, for mercy, for death. So I found heart; for I was not buried yet.
And somehow I felt that fate was to take me, as the great poet took Dante, through other and
greater horrors.

CHAPTER XVI.

M'CLELLAN'S RETREAT.

The scene presented in Michie's lawn and oak grove, on Saturday morning, was terribly picturesque,
and characteristic of the calamity of war. The well was beset by crowds of wounded men, perishing
of thirst, who made frantic efforts to reach the bucket, but were borne back by the stronger
desperadoes. The kitchen was swarming with hungry soldiers who begged corn-bread and half-cooked
dough from the negroes. The shady side-yard was dotted with pale, bruised, and bleeding people,
who slept out their weariness upon the damp grass, forgetful, for the moment, of their sores.
Ambulances poured through the lane, in solemn procession, and now and then, couples of privates
bore by some wounded officer, upon a canvas "stretcher." The lane proving too narrow, at length,
for the passing vehicles, the gate-posts and fence were torn up, and finally, the soldiers
made a footway of the hall of the dwelling.

The retreat had been in progress all night, as I had heard the wagons through my open windows.
By daylight the whole army was acquainted with the facts, that we were to resign our depot
at White House, relinquish the North bank of the river, and retire precipitately to the shores
of the James. A rumor--indignantly denied, but as often repeated--prevailed among the teamsters,
surgeons, and drivers, that the wounded were to be left in the enemy's hands. It shortly transpired
that we were already cut off from the Pamunkey. A train had departed for White House at dawn,
and had delivered its cargo of mortality safely; but a second train, attempting the passage,
at seven o'clock had been fired into, and compelled to return. A tremendous explosion, and
a shaft of white smoke that flashed to the zenith, informed us, soon afterward, that the railroad
bridge had been blown up.

About the same time, the roar of artillery recommenced in front, and regiments that had not
slept for twenty hours, were hurried past us, to take position at the entrenchments. A universal
fear now found expression, and helpless people asked of each other, with pale lips--

"How far have we to walk to reach the James?"

It was doubtful, at this time, that any one knew the route to that river. A few members of
the signal corps had adventured thither to open communication with the gunboats, and a small
cavalry party of Casey's division had made a foray to New Market and Charles City Court House.
But it was rumored that Wise's brigade of Confederates was now posted at Malvern Hills, closing
up the avenue of escape, and that the whole right wing of the Confederate army was pushing
toward Charles City. Malvern Hills, the nearest point that could be gained, was about twenty
miles distant, and Harrison's Landing--presumed to be our final destination--was thirty miles
away. To retreat over this distance, encumbered with baggage, the wounded and the sick, was
discarded as involving pursuit, and certain calamity. Cavalry might fall upon us at every turning,
since the greater portion of our own horse had been scouting between White House and Hanover,
when the bridges were destroyed, and was therefore separated from the main army. At eight o'clock--weak
with fever and scarcely able to keep in the saddle--I joined Mr. Anderson of the Herald, and
rode toward the front, that I might discover the whereabouts of the new engagement. Winding
through a cart-track in Michie's Woods, we came upon fully one third of the whole army, or
the remnant of all that portion engaged at Gaines's Mill;--the Reserves, Porter's Corps, Slocum's
division, and Meagher's brigade,--perhaps thirty-thousand men. They covered the whole of Tent's
farm, and were drawn up in line, heavily equipped, with their colors in position, field officers
dismounted, and detachments from each regiment preparing hot coffee at certain fires. A very
few wagons--and these containing only ammunition--stood harnessed beside each regiment. In
many cases the men lay or knelt upon the ground. Such hot, hungry, weary wretches, I never
beheld. During the whole night long they had been crossing the Chickahominy, and the little
sleep vouchsafed them had been taken in snatches upon the bare clay. Travelling from place
to place, I saw the surviving heroes of the defeat: Meagher looking very yellow and prosaic;
Slocum,--small, indomitable, active; Newton,--a little gray, a trifle proud, very mercurial,
and curiously enough, a Virginian; Meade,--lithe, spectacled, sanguine; and finally General
McCall, as grave, kindly odd and absent, as I had found him four months before. The latter
worthy was one of the first of the Federal Generals to visit Richmond. He was taken prisoner
the second day afterward, and the half of his command was slain or disabled.

I went to and fro, obtaining the names of killed, wounded and missing, with incidents of the
battle as well as its general plan. These I scrawled upon bits of newspaper, upon envelopes,
upon the lining of my hat, and finally upon my shirt wristbands. I was literally filled with
notes before noon, and if I had been shot at that time, endeavors to obtain my name would have
been extremely difficult. I should have had more titles than some of the Chinese princes; some
parts of me would have been found fatally wounded, and others italicized for gallant behavior.
Indeed, I should have been shot in every part, taken prisoner at every place, killed outright
in every skirmish, and marvellously saved through every peril. My tombstone would have been
some hundreds of muster-rolls and my obituary a fortune to a newspaper. I recollect, with some
amusement, the credit that each regiment took upon itself for distinguished behavior. There
were few Colonels that did not claim all the honors. I fell in with a New Jersey brigade, that
had been decimated of nearly half its quota, and a spruce young Major attempted to convey an
idea of the battle to me. He said, in brief, that the New Jersey brigade, composed mainly of
himself and his regiment, and some few organizations of little consequence,--although numbering
ten thousand odd soldiers,--had received the whole shock of a quantity of "Rebels." The said
"Rebels" appeared to make up one fourth part of the population of the globe. There was no end
to them. They seemed to be several miles deep, longer and more crooked than the Pamunkey, and
stood with their rear against Richmond, so that they couldn't fall back, even if they wanted
to. In vain did the New Jersey brigade and his regiment attack them with ball and bayonet.
How the "Rebels" ever withstood the celebrated charge of his regiment was altogether inexplicable.

In the language of the Major,--"the New Jersey brigade,--and my regiment,--fit, and fit, and
fit, and give 'em 'get out!' But sir, may I be----, well there (expression inadequate), we
couldn't budge 'em. No, sir! (very violently,) not budge 'em, sir! I told the boys to walk
at 'em with cold steel. Says I: 'Boys, steel'ill fetch 'em, or nothin' under heaven!' Well,
sir, at 'em we went,--me and the boys. There ain't been no sich charge in the whole war! Not
in the whole war, sir! (intensely fervid;) leave it to any impartial observer if there has
been! We went up the hill, square in the face of all their artillery, musketry, cavalry, sharpshooters,
riflemen,--everything, sir! Everything! (energetically.) One o' my men overheard the Rebel
General say, as we came up: says he,--'that's the gamest thing I ever see.' Well! we butchered
'em frightful. We must a killed a thousand or two of 'em, don't you think so, Adjutant? But,
sir,--it was all in vain. No go, sir! no, sir, no go! (impressively.) And the New Jersey brigade
and my regiment fell back, inch by inch, with our feet to the foe (rhetorically.) Is that so,
boys?"

The "boys," who had meantime gathered around, exclaimed loudly, that it was "true as preachin,"
and the Major added, in an undertone that his name was spelled * * *.

"But where were Porter's columns?" said I, "and the Pennsylvania Reserves?"

"I didn't see 'em," said the Major: "I don't think they was there. If they had a been, why
wa'n't they on hand to save my regiment, and the New Jersey brigade?"

It would be wrong to infer from these vauntings, that the Federals did not fight bravely and
endure defeat unshrinkingly. On the contrary, I have never read of higher exemplifications
of personal and moral courage, than I witnessed during this memorable retreat. And the young
Major's boasting did not a whit reduce my estimate of his efficiency. For in America, swaggering
does not necessarily indicate cowardice. I knew a Captain of artillery in Smith's division,
who was wordier than Gratiano, and who exaggerated like Falstaff. But he was a lion in action,
and at Lee's Mills and Williamsburg his battery was handled with consummate skill.

From Trent's farm the roadway led by a strip of corduroy, through sloppy, swampy woods, to
an open place, beyond a brook, where Smith's division lay. The firing had almost entirely ceased,
and we heard loud cheers running up and down the lines, as we again ventured within cannon
range. On this spot, for the second time, the Federals had won a decided success. And in so
far as a cosmopolitan could feel elated, I was proud, for a moment, of the valor of my division.
The victors had given me meals and a bed, and they had fed my pony when both of us were hungry.
But the sight of the prisoners and the collected dead, saddened me somewhat.

These two engagements have received the name of the First and Second battles of Golding's Farm.
They resulted from an effort of Toombs's Georgia brigade to carry the redoubt and breastworks
of General Smith. Toombs was a civilian, and formerly a senator from Georgia. He had no military
ability, and his troops were driven back with great slaughter, both on Friday and Saturday.
Among the prisoners taken was Colonel Lamar of (I think) the 7th Georgia regiment. He passed
me, in a litter, wounded, as I rode toward the redoubt.

Lamar was a beautiful man, shaped like a woman, and his hair was long, glossy, and wavy with
ringlets. He was a tiger, in his love of blood, and in character self-willed and vehement.
He was of that remarkable class of Southern men, of which the noted "Filibuster" Walker was
the great exponent. I think I may call him an apostle of slavery. He believed it to be the
destiny of our pale race to subdue all the dusky tribes of the earth, and to evangelize, with
the sword, the whole Western continent, to the uses of master and man. Such people were called
disciples of "manifest destiny." He threw his whole heart into the war; but when I saw him,
bloodless, panting, quivering, I thought how little the wrath of man availed against the justice
of God. From Smith's on the right, I kept along a military road, in the woods, to Sedgwick's
and Richardson's divisions, at Fairoaks. Richardson was subsequently slain, at the second battle
of Bull Run. He was called "Fighting Dick," and on this particular morning was talking composedly
to his wife, as she was about to climb to the saddle. His tent had been taken down, and soldiers
were placing his furniture in a wagon. A greater contrast I never remarked, than the ungainly,
awkward, and rough General, with his slight, trim, pretty companion. She had come to visit
him and had remained until commanded to retire. I fancied, though I was separated some distance,
that the little woman wept, as she kissed him good by, and he followed her, with frequent gestures
of good-hap, till she disappeared behind the woods. I do not know that such prosaic old soldiers
are influenced by the blandishments of love; but "Fighting Dick" never wooed death so recklessly
as in the succeeding engagements of New Market and Malvern Hills.

From Seven Pines to the right of Richardson's head-quarters, ran a line of alternate breastwork,
redoubt, and stockade. The best of these redoubts was held by Captain Petit, with a New York
Volunteer battery. I had often talked with Petit, for he embodied, as well as any man in the
army, the martial qualifications of a volunteer. He despised order. Nobody cared less for dress
and dirt. I have seen him, sitting in a hole that he hollowed with his hands, tossing pebbles
and dust over his head, like another Job. He had profound contempt for any man and any system
that was not "American." I remember asking him, one day, the meaning of the gold lace upon
the staff hats of the Irish brigade.

"Means run like shell!" said Petit, covering me with dirt.

"Don't the Irish make the best soldiers?" I ventured.

"No!" said Petit, raining pebbles, "I had rather have one American than ten Irishmen."

The fighting of Petit was contrary to all rule; but I think that he was a splendid artillery-man.
He generally mounted the rampart, shook his fist at the enemy, flung up his hat, jumped down,
sighted the guns himself, threw shells with wonderful accuracy, screamed at the gunners, mounted
the rampart again, halloed, and, in short, managed to do more execution, make more noise, attract
more attention and throw more dirt than anybody in the army. His redoubt was small, but beautifully
constructed, and the parapet was heaped with double rows of sandbags. It mounted rifled field-pieces,
and, at most times, the gunners were lying under the pieces, asleep. Not any of the entrenched
posts among the frontier Indians were more enveloped in wilderness than this. The trees had
been felled in front to give the cannon play, but behind and on each side belts of dense, dwarf
timber covered the boggy soil. To the left of Petit, on the old field of Seven Pines, lay the
divisions of Hooker and Kearney, and thither I journeyed, after leaving the redoubtable volunteer.
Hooker was a New Englander, reputed to be the handsomest man in the army. He fought bravely
in the Mexican war, and afterwards retired to San Francisco, where he passed a Bohemian existence
at the Union Club House. He disliked McClellan, was beloved by his men, and was generally known
as "Old Joe." He has been one of the most successful Federal leaders, and seems to hold a charmed
life. In all probability he will become Commander-in-chief of one of the grand armies.

Kearney has passed away since the date of which I speak. He was known as the "one-armed Devil,"
and was, by odds, the best educated of all the Federal military chiefs. But, singularly enough,
he departed from all tactics, when hotly afield. His personal energy and courage have given
him renown, and he loved to lead forlorn hopes, or head storming-parties, or ride upon desperate
adventures. He was rich from childhood, and spent much of his life in Europe. For a part of
this time he served as a cavalry-man with the French, in Algiers. In private life he was equally
reckless, but his tastes were scholarly, and he was generous to a fault. Both Kearney and Hooker
were kind to the reporters, and I owe the dead man many a favor. General Daniel Sickles commanded
a brigade in this corps. To the left, and in the rear of Heintzelman's corps, lay the divisions
of Casey and Couch, that had relapsed into silence since their disgrace at Seven Pines. General
Casey was a thin-haired old gentleman, too gracious to be a soldier, although I believe that
he is still in the service. His division comprised the extreme left of the Grand Army, and
bordered upon a deep, impenetrable bog called "White Oak Swamp." It was the purpose of McClellan
to place this swamp between him and the enemy, and defend its passage till his baggage and
siege artillery had obtained the shelter of the gunboats, on the shores of the James. I rode
along this whole line, to renew my impressions of the position, and found that sharp skirmishing
was going on at every point. When I returned to Savage's, where McClellan's headquarters had
temporarily been pitched, I found the last of the wagons creaking across the track, and filing
slowly southward. The wounded lay in the out-houses, in the trains of cars, beside the hedge,
and in shade of the trees about the dwelling. A little back, beside a wood, lay Lowe's balloon
traps, and the infantry "guard," and cavalry "escort" of the Commander-in-chief were encamped
close to the new provost quarters, in a field beyond the orchard. An ambulance passed me, as
I rode into the lane; it was filled with sufferers, and two men with bloody feet, crouched
in the trail. From the roof of Savage's house floated the red hospital flag. Savage himself
was a quiet Virginia farmer, and a magistrate. His name is now coupled with a grand battle.

