The great argument of despots against free governments is, that large bodies of men are incapable
of self-rule, and that the inevitable and rapid tendency of such a government as ours is to
faction, strife, anarchy and dissolution. Let it be our effort to give, to the expecting world,
a great, practical and splendid refutation of this charge. If we cannot do this, the world
may despair. To what other nation can we look to do it? We claim no natural superiority to
other nations. We have not the folly to think of it. We claim nothing more than a natural equality.
But circumstances have conspired to give us an advantage in making this great political experiment
which no other modern nation enjoys. The government under which the fathers of our revolution
were born was the freest in Europe. They were rocked in the cradle and nurtured in the principles
of British liberty: and the transition from those institutions to our own was extremely easy.
They were maturely prepared for the change both by birth and education, and came into existence
as a republic under the happiest auspices that can ever again be expected to arise. If, therefore,
our experiment shall fail, I say again that the world may well despair. Warned as we are by
the taunts of European monarchists, and by the mournful example of all the ancient republics,
are we willing to split on the same rock on which we have seen them shipwrecked? Are we willing
to give our enemies such a triumph as to fulfil their prophecy and convince the world that
self-government is impracticable--a mere chimera--and that man is fit only to be a slave to
his fellow man? Are we willing to teach the nations of the earth to despair, and resign themselves
at once to the power that crushes them? Shall we forfeit all the bright honors that we have
hitherto won by our example, and now admit by our conduct, that, although free government may
subsist for a while, under the pressure of extrinsic and momentary causes, yet that it cannot
bear a long season of peace and prosperity; but that as soon as thus left to itself, it speedily
hastens to faction, demoralization, anarchy and ruin? Are we prepared to make this practical
admission by our conduct, and extinguish, ourselves, the sacred light of liberty which has
been entrusted to our keeping? Or, shall we not rather show ourselves worthy of this high trust,
maintain the advanced post which we have hitherto occupied with so much honor, prove, by our
example, that a free government is the best pledge for peace and order and human happiness,
and thus continue to light the other nations of the earth on their way to liberty? Who can
hesitate between these two alternatives? Who that looks upon that monument that decks the Park,
and observes the statue by which it is surmounted, or on this that graces our square, and recalls
the occasion on which it was erected, is willing to admit that men are incapable of self-government,
and unworthy of the blessing of liberty? No man, I am sure, who has an American heart in his bosom.

