In the morning I was awaked by three or four drums, which Banter had placed under the window;
upon which I withdrew the curtain, and enjoyed the unspeakable satisfaction of contemplating
those angelic charms which were now in my possession! Beauty! which, whether sleeping or awake,
shot forth peculiar graces! The light darting upon my Narcissa's eyes, she awoke also, and
recollecting her situation, hid her blushes in my bosom. I was distracted with joy! I could
not believe the evidence of my senses, and looked upon all that had happened as the fictions
of a dream! In the meantime my uncle knocked at the door, and bade me turn out, for I had had
a long spell. I rose accordingly, and sent Miss Williams to her mistress, myself receiving
the congratulation of Captain Bowling, who rallied me in his sea phrase with great success.
In less than an hour, Don Rodrigo led my wife into breakfast, where she received the compliments
of the company on her looks, which, they said, if possible, were improved by matrimony. As
her delicate ears were offended with none of those indecent ambiguities which are too often
spoken on such occasions, she behaved with dignity, unaffected modesty, and ease; and, as a
testimony of my affection and esteem, I presented her, in presence of them all, with a deed,
by which I settled the whole fortune I was possessed of on her and her heirs for ever. She
accepted it with a glance of most tender acknowledgment, observed, that she could not be surprised
at anything of this kind I should do, and desired my father to take the trouble of keeping
it, saying, "Next to my own Mr. Random, you are the person in whom I ought to have the greatest
confidence." Charmed with her prudent and ingenuous manner of proceeding, he took the paper,
and assured her that it should not lose its value while in his custody.

As we had not many visits to give and receive, the little time we stayed in town was spent
in going to public diversions, where I have the vanity to think Narcissa was seldom eclipsed.
One night, in particular, we sent our footman to keep one of the stage boxes, which we no sooner
entered, than we perceived in the opposite box the squire and his lady, who seemed not a little
surprised at seeing us. I was pleased at this opportunity of confronting them; the more, because
Melinda was robbed of all her admirers by my wife, who happened that night to outshine her
sister both in beauty and dress. She was piqued at Narcissa's victory, tossed her head a thousand
different ways, flirted her fan, looked at us with disdain, then whispered to her husband,
and broke out into an affected giggle; but all her arts proved ineffectual, either to discompose
Mrs. Random, or to conceal her own mortification, which at length forced her away long before
the play was done. The news of our marriage being spread, with many circumstances to our disadvantage,
by the industry of this malignant creature, a certain set of persons fond of scandal began
to inquire into the particulars of my fortune, which they no sooner understood to be independent,
than the tables were turned, and our acquaintance was courted as much as it had been despised
before: but she had too much dignity of pride to encourage this change of conduct, especially
in her relations, whom she could never be prevailed upon to see, after the malicious reports
they had raised to her prejudice.

CHAPTER LXIX

My father intends to revisit the Place of his Nativity--we propose to accompany him--my Uncle
renews his will in my favour, determining to go to sea again--we set out for Scotland--arrive
at Edinburgh--purchase our paternal Estate--proceed to it--halt at the Town where I was educated--take
up my bond to Crab--the Behaviour of Potion and his Wife, and one of our Female Cousins--our
Reception at the Estate--Strap marries Miss Williams, and is settled by my Father to his own
satisfaction--I am more and more happy.

My father intending to revisit his native country, and pay the tribute of a few tears at my
mother's grave, Narcissa and I resolved to accompany him in the execution of his pious office,
and accordingly prepared for the journey, in which, however, my uncle would not engage, being
resolved to try his fortune once more at sea. In the meantime he renewed his will in favour
of my wife and me, and deposited it in the hands of his brother-in-law: while I (that I might
not be wanting to my own interest) summoned the squire to produce his father's will at Doctors'
Commons, and employed a proctor to manage the affair in my absence.

Everything being thus settled, we took leave of all our friends in London, and set out for
Scotland, Don Rodrigo, Narcissa, Miss Williams, and I, in the coach, and Strap, with two men
in livery, on horseback; as we made easy stages, my charmer held it out very well, till we
arrived at Edinburgh, where we proposed to rest ourselves some weeks.

Here Don Rodrigo having intelligence that the foxhunter had spoilt his estate, which was to
be exposed to sale by public auction, he determined to make a purchase of the spot where he
was born, and actually bought all the land that belonged to his father.

In a few days after this bargain was made, we left Edinburgh, in order to go and take possession;
and by the way halted one night in that town where I was educated. Upon inquiry, I found that
Mr. Crab was dead; whereupon I sent for his executor, paid the sum I owed with interest, and
took up my bond. Mr. Potion and his wife, hearing of my arrival, had the assurance to come
to the inn where we lodged, and send up their names, with the desire of being permitted to
pay their respects to my father and me: but their sordid behaviour towards me, when I was an
orphan, had made too deep an impression on my mind to be effaced by this mean mercenary piece
of condescension: I therefore rejected their message with disdain, and bade Strap tell them,
that my father and I desired to have no communication with such low-minded wretches as they were.

They had not been gone half-an-hour, when a woman, without any ceremony, opened the door of
the room where we sat, and, making towards my father, accosted him with, "Uncle, your servant--I
am glad to see you." This was no other than one of my female cousins, mentioned in the first
part of my memoirs, to whom Don Rodrigo replied, "Pray, who are you, madam?" "Oh!" cried she,
"my cousin Rory there knows me very well. Don't you remember me, Rory?" "Yes, madam," said
I; "for my own part, I shall never forget you. Sir, this is one of the young ladies, who (as
I have formerly told you) treated me so humanely in my childhood!" When I pronounced these
words, my father's resentment glowed in his visage, and he ordered her to be gone, with such
a commanding aspect, that she retired in a fright, muttering curses as she went downstairs.
We afterwards learned that she was married to an ensign, who had already spent all her fortune;
and that her sister had borne a child to her mother's footman, who is now her husband, and
keeps a petty alehouse in the country.

The fame of our flourishing condition having arrived at this place before us, we got notice
that the magistrates intended next day to compliment us with the freedom of their town; upon
which my father, considering their complaisance in the right point of view, ordered the horses
to the coach early in the morning.

