Lay with my wife at my Lord's lodgings, where I have been these two nights, till 10 o'clock
with great pleasure talking, then I rose and to White Hall, where I spent a little time walking
among the courtiers, which I perceive I shall be able to do with great confidence, being now
beginning to be pretty well known among them.  Then to my wife again, and found Mrs. Sarah
with us in the chamber we lay in. In fine, I find that there is nothing almost but bawdry at
Court from top to bottom, as, if it were fit, I could instance, but it is not necessary; only
they say my Lord Chesterfield, groom of the stole to the Queen, is either gone or put away
from the Court upon the score of his lady's having smitten the Duke of York, so as that he
is watched by the Duchess of York, and his lady is retired into the country upon it.  How much
of this is true, God knows, but it is common talk.  After dinner I did reckon with Mrs. Sarah
for what we have eat and drank here, and gave her a crown, and so took coach, and to the Duke's
House, where we saw "The Villaine" again; and the more I see it, the more I am offended at
my first undervaluing the play, it being very good and pleasant, and yet a true and allowable
tragedy.  The house was full of citizens, and so the less pleasant, but that I was willing
to make an end of my gaddings, and to set to my business for all the year again tomorrow. 
Here we saw the old Roxalana in the chief box, in a velvet gown, as the fashion is, and very
handsome, at which I was glad. Hence by coach home, where I find all well, only Sir W. Pen
they say ill again.  So to my office to set down these two or three days' journall, and to
close the last year therein, and so that being done, home to supper, and to bed, with great
pleasure talking and discoursing with my wife of our late observations abroad.

2nd.  Lay long in bed, and so up and to the office, where all the morning alone doing something
or another.  So dined at home with my wife, and in the afternoon to the Treasury office, where
Sir W. Batten was paying off tickets, but so simply and arbitrarily, upon a dull pretence of
doing right to the King, though to the wrong of poor people (when I know there is no man that
means the King less right than he, or would trouble himself less about it, but only that he
sees me stir, and so he would appear doing something, though to little purpose), that I was
weary of it.  At last we broke up, and walk home together, and I to see Sir W. Pen, who is
fallen sick again.  I staid a while talking with him, and so to my office, practising some
arithmetique, and so home to supper and bed, having sat up late talking to my poor wife with
great content.

3rd.  Up and to the office all the morning, and dined alone with my wife at noon, and then
to my office all the afternoon till night, putting business in order with great content in
my mind.  Having nothing now in my mind of trouble in the world, but quite the contrary, much
joy, except only the ending of our difference with my uncle Thomas, and the getting of the
bills well over for my building of my house here, which however are as small and less than
any of the others.  Sir W. Pen it seems is fallen very ill again.  At dinner my wife did propound
my having of my sister Pall at my house again to be her woman, since one we must have, hoping
that in that quality possibly she may prove better than she did before, which I take very well
of her, and will consider of it, it being a very great trouble to me that I should have a sister
of so ill a nature, that I must be forced to spend money upon a stranger when it might better
be upon her, if she were good for anything.  After dinner I and she walked, though it was dirty,
to White Hall (in the way calling at the Wardrobe to see how Mr. Moore do, who is pretty well,
but not cured yet), being much afeard of being seen by anybody, and was, I think, of Mr. Coventry,
which so troubled me that I made her go before, and I ever after loitered behind.  She to Mr.
Hunt's, and I to White Hall Chappell, and then up to walk up and down the house, which now
I am well known there, I shall forbear to do, because I would not be thought a lazy body by
Mr. Coventry and others by being seen, as I have lately been, to walk up and down doing nothing.
So to Mr. Hunt's, and there was most prettily and kindly entertained by him and her, who are
two as good people as I hardly know any, and so neat and kind one to another.  Here we staid
late, and so to my Lord's to bed.  And I took Sir W. Batten and Captain Allen into the wine
cellar to my tenant (as I call him, Serjeant Dalton), and there drank a great deal of variety
of wines, more than I have drunk at one time, or shall again a great while, when I come to
return to my oaths, which I intend in a day or two.  Thence to my Lord's lodging, where Mr.
Hunt and Mr. Creed dined with us, and were very merry.  And after dinner he and I to White
Hall, where the Duke and the Commissioners for Tangier met, but did not do much: my Lord Sandwich
not being in town, nobody making it their business.  So up, and Creed and I to my wife again,
and after a game or two at cards, to the Cockpitt, where we saw "Claracilla," a poor play,
done by the King's house (but neither the King nor Queen were there, but only the Duke and
Duchess, who did show some impertinent and, methought, unnatural dalliances there, before the
whole world, such as kissing, and leaning upon one another); but to my very little content,
they not acting in any degree like the Duke's people.  So home (there being here this night
Mrs. Turner and Mrs. Martha Batten of our office) to my Lord's lodgings again, and to a game
at cards, we three and Sarah, and so to supper and some apples and ale, and to bed with great
pleasure, blessed be God!

6th (Twelfth Day).  Up and Mr. Creed brought a pot of chocolate ready made for our morning
draft, and then he and I to the Duke's, but I was not very willing to be seen at this end of
the town, and so returned to our lodgings, and took my wife by coach to my brother's, where
I set her down, and Creed and I to St. Paul's Church-yard, to my bookseller's, and looked over
several books with good discourse, and then into St. Paul's Church, and there finding Elborough,
my old schoolfellow at Paul's, now a parson, whom I know to be a silly fellow, I took him out
and walked with him, making Creed and myself sport with talking with him, and so sent him away,
and we to my office and house to see all well, and thence to the Exchange, where we met with
Major Thomson, formerly of our office, who do talk very highly of liberty of conscience, which
now he hopes for by the King's declaration, and that he doubts not that if he will give him,
he will find more and better friends than the Bishopps can be to him, and that if he do not,
there will many thousands in a little time go out of England, where they may have it.  But
he says that they are well contented that if the King thinks it good, the Papists may have
the same liberty with them. Thence into Wood Street, and there bought a fine table for my dining-room,
cost me 50s.; and while we were buying it, there was a scare-fire

     [Scar-fire or scarefire.  An alarm of fire.  One of the little
     pieces in Herrick's "Hesperides" is entitled "The Scar-fire," but
     the word sometimes was used, as in the text, for the fire itself.
     Fuller, in his "Worthies," speaks of quenching scare-fires.]

in an ally over against us, but they quenched it.  So to my brother's, where Creed and I and
my wife dined with Tom, and after dinner to the Duke's house, and there saw "Twelfth Night"

     [Pepys saw "Twelfth Night" for the first time on September 11th,
     1661, when he supposed it was a new play, and "took no pleasure at
     all in it."]

acted well, though it be but a silly play, and not related at all to the name or day.  Thence
Mr. Battersby the apothecary, his wife, and I and mine by coach together, and setting him down
at his house, he paying his share, my wife and I home, and found all well, only myself somewhat
vexed at my wife's neglect in leaving of her scarf, waistcoat, and night-dressings in the coach
today that brought us from Westminster, though, I confess, she did give them to me to look
after, yet it was her fault not to see that I did take them out of the coach.  I believe it
might be as good as 25s. loss or thereabouts.  So to my office, however, to set down my last
three days' journall, and writing to my Lord Sandwich to give him an account of Sir J. Lawson's
being come home, and to my father about my sending him some wine and things this week, for
his making an entertainment of some friends in the country, and so home.  This night making
an end wholly of Christmas, with a mind fully satisfied with the great pleasures we have had
by being abroad from home, and I do find my mind so apt to run to its old want of pleasures,
that it is high time to betake myself to my late vows, which I will to-morrow, God willing,
perfect and bind myself to, that so I may, for a great while, do my duty, as I have well begun,
and increase my good name and esteem in the world, and get money, which sweetens all things,
and whereof I have much need. So home to supper and to bed, blessing God for his mercy to bring
me home, after much pleasure, to my house and business with health and resolution to fall hard
to work again.

7th.  Up pretty early, that is by seven o'clock, it being not yet light before or then.  So
to my office all the morning, signing the Treasurer's ledger, part of it where I have not put
my hand, and then eat a mouthful of pye at home to stay my stomach, and so with Mr. Waith by
water to Deptford, and there among other things viewed old pay-books, and found that the Commanders
did never heretofore receive any pay for the rigging time, but only for seatime, contrary to
what Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten told the Duke the other day.  I also searched all the
ships in the Wett Dock for fire, and found all in good order, it being very dangerous for the
King that so many of his ships lie together there.  I was among the canvass in stores also,
with Mr. Harris, the saylemaker, and learnt the difference between one sort and another, to
my great content, and so by water home again, where my wife tells me stories how she hears
that by Sarah's going to live at Sir W. Pen's, all our affairs of my family are made known
and discoursed of there and theirs by my people, which do trouble me much, and I shall take
a time to let Sir W. Pen know how he has dealt in taking her without our full consent.  So
to my office, and by and by home to supper, and so to prayers and bed.

8th.  Up pretty early, and sent my boy to the carrier's with some wine for my father, for to
make his feast among his Brampton friends this Christmas, and my muff to my mother, sent as
from my wife.  But before I sent my boy out with them, I beat him for a lie he told me, at
which his sister, with whom we have of late been highly displeased, and warned her to be gone,
was angry, which vexed me, to see the girl I loved so well, and my wife, should at last turn
so much a fool and unthankful to us. So to the office, and there all the morning, and though
without and a little against the advice of the officers did, to gratify him, send Thomas Hater
to-day towards Portsmouth a day or two before the rest of the clerks, against the Pay next
week.  So home; with much ado in an hour getting a coach home, and, after writing letters at
my office, I went home to supper and to bed, now resolving to set up my rest as to plays till
Easter, if not Whitsuntide next, excepting plays at Court.

9th.  Waking in the morning, my wife I found also awake, and begun to speak to me with great
trouble and tears, and by degrees from one discourse to another at last it appears that Sarah
has told somebody that has told my wife of my meeting her at my brother's and making her sit
down by me while she told me stories of my wife, about her giving her scallop to her brother,
and other things, which I am much vexed at, for I am sure I never spoke any thing of it, nor
could any body tell her but by Sarah's own words.  I endeavoured to excuse my silence herein
hitherto by not believing any thing she told me, only that of the scallop which she herself
told me of.  At last we pretty good friends, and my wife begun to speak again of the necessity
of her keeping somebody to bear her company; for her familiarity with her other servants is
it that spoils them all, and other company she hath none, which is too true, and called for
Jane to reach her out of her trunk, giving her the keys to that purpose, a bundle of papers,
and pulls out a paper, a copy of what, a pretty while since, she had wrote in a discontent
to me, which I would not read, but burnt. She now read it, and it was so piquant, and wrote
in English, and most of it true, of the retiredness of her life, and how unpleasant it was;
that being wrote in English, and so in danger of being met with and read by others, I was vexed
at it, and desired her and then commanded her to tear it.  When she desired to be excused it,
I forced it from her, and tore it, and withal took her other bundle of papers from her, and
leapt out of the bed and in my shirt clapped them into the pocket of my breeches, that she
might not get them from me, and having got on my stockings and breeches and gown, I pulled
them out one by one and tore them all before her face, though it went against my heart to do
it, she crying and desiring me not to do it, but such was my passion and trouble to see the
letters of my love to her, and my Will wherein I had given her all I have in the world, when
I went to sea with my Lord Sandwich, to be joyned with a paper of so much disgrace to me and
dishonour, if it should have been found by any body.  Having torn them all, saving a bond of
my uncle Robert's, which she hath long had in her hands, and our marriage license, and the
first letter that ever I sent her when I was her servant,

     [The usual word at this time for a lover.  We have continued the
     correlative term "mistress," but rejected that of "servant."]

I took up the pieces and carried them into my chamber, and there, after many disputes with
myself whether I should burn them or no, and having picked up, the pieces of the paper she
read to-day, and of my Will which I tore, I burnt all the rest, and so went out to my office
troubled in mind. Hither comes Major Tolhurst, one of my old acquaintance in Cromwell's time,
and sometimes of our clubb, to see me, and I could do no less than carry him to the Mitre,
and having sent for Mr. Beane, a merchant, a neighbour of mine, we sat and talked, Tolhurst
telling me the manner of their collierys in the north.  We broke up, and I home to dinner.
And to see my folly, as discontented as I am, when my wife came I could not forbear smiling
all dinner till she began to speak bad words again, and then I began to be angry again, and
so to my office.  Mr. Bland came in the evening to me hither, and sat talking to me about many
things of merchandise, and I should be very happy in his discourse, durst I confess my ignorance
to him, which is not so fit for me to do.  There coming a letter to me from Mr. Pierce, the
surgeon, by my desire appointing his and Dr. Clerke's coming to dine with me next Monday, I
went to my wife and agreed upon matters, and at last for my honour am forced to make her presently
a new Moyre gown to be seen by Mrs. Clerke, which troubles me to part with so much money, but,
however, it sets my wife and I to friends again, though I and she never were so heartily angry
in our lives as to-day almost, and I doubt the heartburning will not [be] soon over, and the
truth is I am sorry for the tearing of so many poor loving letters of mine from sea and elsewhere
to her.  So to my office again, and there the Scrivener brought me the end of the manuscript
which I am going to get together of things of the Navy, which pleases me much.  So home, and
mighty friends with my wife again, and so to bed.

10th.  Up and to the office.  From thence, before we sat, Sir W. Pen sent for me to his bedside
to talk (indeed to reproach me with my not owning to Sir J. Minnes that he had my advice in
the blocking up of the garden door the other day, which is now by him out of fear to Sir J.
Minnes opened again), to which I answered him so indifferently that I think he and I shall
be at a distance, at least to one another, better than ever we did and love one another less,
which for my part I think I need not care for. So to the office, and sat till noon, then rose
and to dinner, and then to the office again, where Mr. Creed sat with me till late talking
very good discourse, as he is full of it, though a cunning knave in his heart, at least not
to be too much trusted, till Sir J. Minnes came in, which at last he did, and so beyond my
expectation he was willing to sign his accounts, notwithstanding all his objections, which
really were very material, and yet how like a doting coxcomb he signs the accounts without
the least satisfaction, for which we both sufficiently laughed at him and Sir W. Batten after
they had signed them and were gone, and so sat talking together till 11 o'clock at night, and
so home and to bed.

11th (Lord's day).  Lay long talking pleasant with my wife, then up and to church, the pew
being quite full with strangers come along with Sir W. Batten and Sir J. Minnes, so after a
pitifull sermon of the young Scott, home to dinner.  After dinner comes a footman of my Lord
Sandwich's (my Lord being come to town last night) with a letter from my father, in which he
presses me to carry on the business for Tom with his late mistress, which I am sorry to see
my father do, it being so much out of our power or for his advantage, as it is clear to me
it is, which I shall think of and answer in my next.  So to my office all the afternoon writing
orders myself to have ready against to-morrow, that I might not appear negligent to Mr. Coventry.
In the evening to Sir W. Pen's, where Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten, and afterwards came
Sir G. Carteret. There talked about business, and afterwards to Sir W. Batten's, where we staid
talking and drinking Syder, and so I went away to my office a little, and so home and to bed.

12th.  Up, and to Sir W. Batten's to bid him and Sir J. Minnes adieu, they going this day towards
Portsmouth, and then to Sir W. Pen's to see Sir J. Lawson, who I heard was there, where I found
him the same plain man that he was, after all his success in the Straights, with which he is
come loaded home.  Thence to Sir G. Carteret, and with him in his coach to White Hall, and
first I to see my Lord Sandwich (being come now from Hinchingbrooke), and after talking a little
with him, he and I to the Duke's chamber, where Mr. Coventry and he and I into the Duke's closett
and Sir J. Lawson discoursing upon business of the Navy, and particularly got his consent to
the ending some difficulties in Mr. Creed's accounts. Thence to my Lord's lodgings, and with
Mr. Creed to the King's Head ordinary, but people being set down, we went to two or three places;
at last found some meat at a Welch cook's at Charing Cross, and here dined and our boys.  After
dinner to the 'Change to buy some linen for my wife, and going back met our two boys.  Mine
had struck down Creed's boy in the dirt, with his new suit on, and the boy taken by a gentlewoman
into a house to make clean, but the poor boy was in a pitifull taking and pickle; but I basted
my rogue soundly.  Thence to my Lord's lodging, and Creed to his, for his papers against the
Committee.  So I went to the Committee, where we spent all this night attending to Sir J. Lawson's
description of Tangier and the place for the Mole,

     [The construction of this Mole or breakwater turned out a very
     costly undertaking.  In April, 1663, it was found that the charge
     for one year's work was L13,000.  In March, 1665, L36,000 had been
     spent upon it.  The wind and sea exerted a very destructive
     influence over this structure, although it was very strongly built,
     and Colonel Norwood reported in 1668 that a breach had been made in
     the Mole, which cost a considerable sum to repair.]

of which he brought a very pretty draught.  Concerning the making of the Mole, Mr. Cholmely
did also discourse very well, having had some experience in it.  Being broke up, I home by
coach to Mr. Bland's, and there discoursed about sending away of the merchant ship which hangs
so long on hand for Tangier.  So to my Lady Batten's, and sat with her awhile, Sir W. Batten
being gone out of town; but I did it out of design to get some oranges for my feast to-morrow
of her, which I did.  So home, and found my wife's new gown come home, and she mightily pleased
with it. But I appeared very angry that there were no more things got ready against to-morrow's
feast, and in that passion sat up long, and went discontented to bed.

13th.  So my poor wife rose by five o'clock in the morning, before day, and went to market
and bought fowls and many other things for dinner, with which I was highly pleased, and the
chine of beef was down also before six o'clock, and my own jack, of which I was doubtfull,
do carry it very well. Things being put in order, and the cook come, I went to the office,
where we sat till noon and then broke up, and I home, whither by and by comes Dr. Clerke and
his lady, his sister, and a she-cozen, and Mr. Pierce and his wife, which was all my guests.
My dinner was noble and enough.  I had my house mighty clean and neat; my room below with a
good fire in it; my dining-room above, and my chamber being made a withdrawing-chamber; and
my wife's a good fire also.  I find my new table very proper, and will hold nine or ten people
well, but eight with great room.  After dinner the women to cards in my wife's chamber, and
the Dr. and Mr. Pierce in mine, because the dining-room smokes unless I keep a good charcoal
fire, which I was not then provided with.  At night to supper, had a good sack posset and cold
meat, and sent my guests away about ten o'clock at night, both them and myself highly pleased
with our management of this day; and indeed their company was very fine, and Mrs. Clerke a
very witty, fine lady, though a little conceited and proud.  So weary, so to bed.  I believe
this day's feast will cost me near L5.

14th.  Lay very long in bed, till with shame forced to rise, being called up by Mr. Bland about
business.  He being gone I went and staid upon business at the office and then home to dinner,
and after dinner staid a little talking pleasant with my wife, who tells me of another woman
offered by her brother that is pretty and can sing, to which I do listen but will not appear
over forward, but I see I must keep somebody for company sake to my wife, for I am ashamed
she should live as she do. So to the office till 10 at night upon business, and numbering and
examining part of my sea-manuscript with great pleasure, my wife sitting working by me.  So
home to supper and to bed.

15th.  Up and to my office preparing things, by and by we met and sat Mr. Coventry and I till
noon, and then I took him to dine with me, I having a wild goose roasted, and a cold chine
of beef and a barrel of oysters.  We dined alone in my chamber, and then he and I to fit ourselves
for horseback, he having brought me a horse; and so to Deptford, the ways being very dirty.
There we walked up and down the Yard and Wett Dock, and did our main business, which was to
examine the proof of our new way of the call-books, which we think will be of great use.  And
so to horse again, and I home with his horse, leaving him to go over the fields to Lambeth,
his boy at my house taking home his horse. I vexed, having left my keys in my other pocket
in my chamber, and my door is shut, so that I was forced to set my boy in at the window, which
done I shifted myself, and so to my office till late, and then home to supper, my mind being
troubled about Field's business and my uncle's, which the term coming on I must think to follow
again.  So to prayers and to bed, and much troubled in mind this night in my dreams about my
uncle Thomas and his son going to law with us.

16th.  Lay long talking in bed with my wife.  Up, and Mr. Battersby, the apothecary, coming
to see me, I called for the cold chine of beef and made him eat, and drink wine, and talked,
there being with us Captain Brewer, the paynter, who tells me how highly the Presbyters do
talk in the coffeehouses still, which I wonder at.  They being gone I walked two or three hours
with my brother Tom, telling him my mind how it is troubled about my father's concernments,
and how things would be with them all if it should please God that I should die, and therefore
desire him to be a good husband and follow his business, which I hope he do. At noon to dinner,
and after dinner my wife began to talk of a woman again, which I have a mind to have, and would
be glad Pall might please us, but she is quite against having her, nor have I any great mind
to it, but only for her good and to save money flung away upon a stranger. So to my office
till 9 o'clock about my navy manuscripts, and there troubled in my mind more and more about
my uncle's business from a letter come this day from my father that tells me that all his tenants
are sued by my uncle, which will cost me some new trouble, I went home to supper and so to bed.

17th.  Waked early with my mind troubled about our law matters, but it came into my mind that
[sayings] of Epictetus, which did put me to a great deal of ease, it being a saying of great
reason.  Up to the office, and there sat Mr. Coventry, Mr. Pett, new come to town, and I. 
I was sorry for signing a bill and guiding Mr. Coventry to sign a bill to Mr. Creed for his
pay as Deputy Treasurer to this day, though the service ended 5 or 6 months ago, which he perceiving
did blot out his name afterwards, but I will clear myself to him from design in it.  Sat till
two o'clock and then home to dinner, and Creed with me, and after dinner, to put off my mind's
trouble, I took Creed by coach and to the Duke's playhouse, where we did see "The Five Hours"
entertainment again, which indeed is a very fine play, though, through my being out of order,
it did not seem so good as at first; but I could discern it was not any fault in the play.
Thence with him to the China alehouse, and there drank a bottle or two, and so home, where
I found my wife and her brother discoursing about Mr. Ashwell's daughter, whom we are like
to have for my wife's woman, and I hope it may do very well, seeing there is a necessity of
having one.  So to the office to write letters, and then home to supper and to bed.

18th (Lord's day).  Up, and after the barber had done, and I had spoke with Mr. Smith (whom
I sent for on purpose to speak of Field's business, who stands upon L250 before he will release
us, which do trouble me highly), and also Major Allen of the Victualling Office about his ship
to be hired for Tangier, I went to church, and thence home to dinner alone with my wife, very
pleasant, and after dinner to church again, and heard a dull, drowsy sermon, and so home and
to my office, perfecting my vows again for the next year, which I have now done, and sworn
to in the presence of Almighty God to observe upon the respective penalties thereto annexed,
and then to Sir W. Pen's (though much against my will, for I cannot bear him, but only to keep
him from complaint to others that I do not see him) to see how he do, and find him pretty well,
and ready to go abroad again.

19th.  Up and to White Hall, and while the Duke is dressing himself I went to wait on my Lord
Sandwich, whom I found not very well, and Dr. Clerke with him.  He is feverish, and hath sent
for Mr. Pierce to let him blood, but not being in the way he puts it off till night, but he
stirs not abroad to-day.  Then to the Duke, and in his closett discoursed as we use to do,
and then broke up.  We were interrupted by the Duke, who called Mr. Coventry aside for half
an hour, walking with him in the gallery, and then in the garden, and then going away I ended
my discourse with Mr. Coventry.  But by the way Mr. Coventry was saying that there remained
nothing now in our office to be amended but what would do of itself every day better and better,
for as much as he that was slowest, Sir W. Batten, do now begin to look about him and to mind
business.  At which, God forgive me! I was a little moved with envy, but yet I am glad, and
ought to be, though it do lessen a little my care to see that the King's service is like to
be better attended than it was heretofore.  Thence by coach to Mr. Povy's, being invited thither
by [him] came a messenger this morning from him, where really he made a most excellent and
large dinner, of their variety, even to admiration, he bidding us, in a frolique, to call for
what we had a mind, and he would undertake to give it us: and we did for prawns, swan, venison,
after I had thought the dinner was quite done, and he did immediately produce it, which I thought
great plenty, and he seems to set off his rest in this plenty and the neatness of his house,
which he after dinner showed me, from room to room, so beset with delicate pictures, and above
all, a piece of perspective in his closett in the low parler; his stable, where was some most
delicate horses, and the very-racks painted, and mangers, with a neat leaden painted cistern,
and the walls done with Dutch tiles, like my chimnies.  But still, above all things, he bid
me go down into his wine-cellar, where upon several shelves there stood bottles of all sorts
of wine, new and old, with labells pasted upon each bottle, and in the order and plenty as
I never saw books in a bookseller's shop; and herein, I observe, he puts his highest content,
and will accordingly commend all that he hath, but still they deserve to be so.  Here dined
with me Dr. Whore and Mr. Scawen.  So home, where I found Mrs. Lodum speaking with my wife
about her kinswoman which is offered my wife to come as a woman to her.  So to the office and
put things in order, and then home and to bed, it being my great comfort that every day I understand
more and more the pleasure of following of business and the credit that a man gets by it, which
I hope at last too will end in profit.  This noon I did find out Mr. Dixon at Whitehall, and
discoursed with him about Mrs. Wheatly's daughter for a wife for my brother Tom, and have committed
it to him to enquire the pleasure of her father and mother concerning it.  I demanded L300.

20th.  Up betimes and to the office, where all the morning.  Dined at home, and Mr. Deane of
Woolwich with me, talking about the abuses of the yard.  Then to the office about business
all the afternoon with great pleasure, seeing myself observed by every body to be the only
man of business of us all, but Mr. Coventry.  So till late at night, and then home to supper
and bed.

21st.  Up early leaving my wife very ill in bed .  .  .  and to my office till eight o'clock,
there coming Ch. Pepys

     [Charles Pepys was second son of Thomas Pepys, elder brother of
     Samuel's father.  Samuel paid part of the legacy to Charles and his
     elder brother Thomas on May 25th, 1664.]

to demand his legacy of me, which I denied him upon good reason of his father and brother's
suing us, and so he went away.  Then came Commissioner Pett, and he and I by agreement went
to Deptford, and after a turn or two in the yard, to Greenwich, and thence walked to Woolwich.
Here we did business, and I on board the Tangier-merchant, a ship freighted by us, that has
long lain on hand in her despatch to Tangier, but is now ready for sailing.  Back, and dined
at Mr. Ackworth's, where a pretty dinner, and she a pretty, modest woman; but above all things
we saw her Rocke, which is one of the finest things done by a woman that ever I saw. I must
have my wife to see it.  After dinner on board the Elias, and found the timber brought by her
from the forest of Deane to be exceeding good. The Captain gave each of us two barrels of pickled
oysters put up for the Queen mother.  So to the Dock again, and took in Mrs. Ackworth and another
gentlewoman, and carried them to London, and at the Globe tavern, in Eastcheap, did give them
a glass of wine, and so parted.  I home, where I found my wife ill in bed all day, and her
face swelled with pain.  My Will has received my last two quarters salary, of which I am glad.
So to my office till late and then home, and after the barber had done, to bed.

22nd.  To the office, where Sir W. Batten and Sir J. Minnes are come from Portsmouth.  We sat
till dinner time.  Then home, and Mr. Dixon by agreement came to dine, to give me an account
of his success with Mr. Wheatly for his daughter for my brother; and in short it is, that his
daughter cannot fancy my brother because of his imperfection in his speech, which I am sorry
for, but there the business must die, and we must look out for another.  There came in also
Mrs. Lodum, with an answer from her brother Ashwell's daughter, who is likely to come to me,
and with her my wife's brother, and I carried Commissioner Pett in with me, so I feared want
of victuals, but I had a good dinner, and mirth, and so rose and broke up, and with the rest
of the officers to Mr. Russell's buriall, where we had wine and rings, and a great and good
company of aldermen and the livery of the Skinners' Company.  We went to St. Dunstan's in the
East church, where a sermon, but I staid not, but went home, and, after writing letters, I
took coach to Mr. Povy's, but he not within I left a letter there of Tangier business, and
so to my Lord's, and there find him not sick, but expecting his fit to-night of an ague. Here
was Sir W. Compton, Mr. Povy, Mr. Bland, Mr. Gawden and myself; we were very busy about getting
provisions sent forthwith to Tangier, fearing that by Mr. Gawden's neglect they might want
bread.  So among other ways thought of to supply them I was empowered by the Commissioners
of Tangier that were present to write to Plymouth and direct Mr. Lanyon to take up vessels
great or small to the quantity of 150 tons, and fill them with bread of Mr. Gawden's lying
ready there for Tangier, which they undertake to bear me out in, and to see the freight paid.
This I did. About 10 o'clock we broke up, and my Lord's fit was coming upon him, and so we
parted, and I with Mr. Creed, Mr. Pierce, Win. Howe and Captn. Ferrers, who was got almost
drunk this afternoon, and was mighty capricious and ready to fall out with any body, supped
together in the little chamber that was mine heretofore upon some fowls sent by Mr. Shepley,
so we were very merry till 12 at night, and so away, and I lay with Mr. Creed at his lodgings,
and slept well.

23rd.  Up and hastened him in despatching some business relating to Tangier, and I away homewards,
hearing that my Lord had a bad fit to-night, called at my brother's, and found him sick in
bed, of a pain in the sole of one of his feet, without swelling, knowing not how it came, but
it will not suffer him to stand these two days.  So to Mr. Moore, and Mr. Lovell, our proctor,
being there, discoursed of my law business. Thence to Mr. Grant, to bid him come for money
for Mr. Barlow, and he and I to a coffee-house, where Sir J. Cutler was;

     [Citizen and grocer of London; most severely handled by Pope.  Two
     statues were erected to his memory--one in the College of
     Physicians, and the other in the Grocers' Hall.  They were erected
     and one removed (that in the College of Physicians) before Pope
     stigmatized "sage Cutler."  His discourse was well worth hearing. Thence homewards, and meeting Sir W. Batten, turned back
again to a coffee-house, and there drunk more till I was almost sick, and
here much discourse, but little to be learned, but of a design in the
north of a rising, which is discovered, among some men of condition, and
they sent for up.  Thence to the 'Change, and so home with him by coach,
and I to see how my wife do, who is pretty well again, and so to dinner to
Sir W. Batten's to a cod's head, and so to my office, and after stopping
to see Sir W. Pen, where was Sir J. Lawson and his lady and daughter,
which is pretty enough, I came back to my office, and there set to
business pretty late, finishing the margenting my Navy-Manuscript.  So
home and to bed.

24th.  Lay pretty long, and by lying with my sheet upon my lip, as I have of old observed it,
my upper lip was blistered in the morning.  To the office all the morning, sat till noon, then
to the Exchange to look out for a ship for Tangier, and delivered my manuscript to be bound
at the stationer's.  So to dinner at home, and then down to Redriffe, to see a ship hired for
Tangier, what readiness she was in, and found her ready to sail.  Then home, and so by coach
to Mr. Povy's, where Sir W. Compton, Mr. Bland, Gawden, Sir J. Lawson and myself met to settle
the victualling of Tangier for the time past, which with much ado we did, and for a six months'
supply more.  So home in Mr. Gawden's coach, and to my office till late about business, and
find that it is business that must and do every day bring me to something.--[In earlier days
Pepys noted for us each few pounds or shillings of graft which he annexed at each transaction
in his office.]--So home to supper and to bed.

25th (Lord's day).  Lay till 9 a-bed, then up, and being trimmed by the
barber, I walked towards White Hall, calling upon Mr. Moore, whom I found
still very ill of his ague.  I discoursed with him about my Lord's estate
against I speak with my Lord this day.  Thence to the King's Head ordinary
at Charing Cross, and sent for Mr. Creed, where we dined very finely and
good company, good discourse.  Louis, as in the case of D'Estrades, took prompt measures.
     He ordered the papal nuncio forthwith to quit France; he seized upon
     Avignon, and his army prepared to enter Italy.  Alexander found it
     necessary to submit.  In fulfilment of a treaty signed at Pisa in
     1664, Cardinal Chigi, the pope's nephew, came to Paris, to tender
     the pope's apology to Louis.  The guilty individuals were punished;
     the Corsicans banished for ever from the Roman States; and in front
     of the guard-house which they had occupied a pyramid was erected,
     bearing an inscription which embodied the pope's apology.  This
     pyramid Louis permitted Clement IX. to destroy on his accession.-B.]

and banish the Cardinall Imperiall,

     [Lorenzo Imperiali, of Genoa.  He had been appointed Governor of
     Rome by Innocent X., and he had acted in that capacity at
     the time of the tumult.--B.]

which I understand this day is not meant the Cardinall belonging or chosen by the Emperor,
but the name of his family is Imperiali.  Thence to walk in the Park, which we did two hours,
it being a pleasant sunshine day though cold.  Our discourse upon the rise of most men that
we know, and observing them to be the results of chance, not policy, in any of them, particularly
Sir J. Lawson's, from his declaring against Charles Stuart in the river of Thames, and for
the Rump. By and by comes in my Lady Wright, and so I went away, end after talking with Captn.
So walk to my brother's and talked with him, who tells me that this day a messenger is come,
that tells us how Collonel Honiwood, who was well yesterday at Canterbury, was flung by his
horse in getting up, and broke his scull, and so is dead.  So home and to the office, despatching
some business, and so home to supper, and then to prayers and to bed.

26th.  Up and by water with Sir W. Batten to White Hall, drinking a glass of wormewood wine
at the Stillyard, and so up to the Duke, and with the rest of the officers did our common service;
thence to my Lord Sandwich's, but he was in bed, and had a bad fit last night, and so I went
to, Westminster Hall, it being Term time, it troubling me to think that I should have any business
there to trouble myself and thoughts with.  Here I met with Monsieur Raby, who is lately come
from France. [He] tells me that my Lord Hinchingbroke and his brother do little improve there,
and are much neglected in their habits and other things; but I do believe he hath a mind to
go over as their tutour, and so I am not apt to believe what he says therein.  Having discoursed
long with him, I took him by coach and set him down at my Lord Crew's, and myself went and
dined at Mr. Povy's, where Orlando Massam, Mr. Wilks, a Wardrobe man, myself and Mr. Gawden,
and had just such another dinner as I had the other day there.  But above all things I do the
most admire his piece of perspective especially, he opening me the closett door, and there
I saw that there is nothing but only a plain picture hung upon the wall. After dinner Mr. Gauden
and I to settle the business of the Tangier victualling, which I perceive none of them yet
have hitherto understood but myself.  Thence by coach to White Hall, and met upon the Tangier
Commission, our greatest business the discoursing of getting things ready for my Lord Rutherford
to go about the middle of March next, and a proposal of Sir J. Lawson's and Mr. Cholmely's
concerning undertaking the Mole, which is referred to another time.  So by coach home, being
melancholy, overcharged with business, and methinks I fear that I have some ill offices done
to Mr. Coventry, or else he observes that of late I have not despatched business so as I did
use to do, which I confess I do acknowledge.  But it may be it is but my fear only, he is not
so fond as he used to be of me.  But I do believe that Sir W. Batten has made him believe that
I do too much crow upon having his kindness, and so he may on purpose to countenance him seem
a little more strange to me, but I will study hard to bring him back again to the same degree
of kindness.  So home, and after a little talk with my wife, to the office, and did a great
deal of business there till very late, and then home to supper and to bed.

27th.  Up and to the office, where sat till two o'clock, and then home to dinner, whither by
and by comes Mr. Creed, and he and I talked of our Tangier business, and do find that there
is nothing in the world done with true integrity, but there is design along with it, as in
my Lord Rutherford, who designs to have the profit of victualling of the garrison himself,
and others to have the benefit of making the Mole, so that I am almost discouraged from coming
any more to the Committee, were it not that it will possibly hereafter bring me to some acquaintance
of great men. Then to the office again, where very busy till past ten at night, and so home
to supper and to bed.  I have news this day from Cambridge that my brother hath had his bachelor's
cap put on; but that which troubles me is, that he hath the pain of the stone, and makes bloody
water with great pain, it beginning just as mine did.  I pray God help him.

28th.  Up and all the morning at my office doing business, and at home seeing my painters'
work measured.  So to dinner and abroad with my wife, carrying her to Unthank's, where she
alights, and I to my Lord Sandwich's, whom I find missing his ague fit to-day, and is pretty
well, playing at dice (and by this I see how time and example may alter a man; he being now
acquainted with all sorts of pleasures and vanities, which heretofore he never thought of nor
loved, nor, it may be, hath allowed) with Ned Pickering and his page Laud.  Thence to the Temple
to my cozen Roger Pepys, and thence to Serjt. Bernard to advise with him and retain him against
my uncle, my heart and head being very heavy with the business. Thence to Wotton's, the shoemaker,
and there bought another pair of new boots, for the other I bought my last would not fit me,
and here I drank with him and his wife, a pretty woman, they broaching a vessel of syder a-purpose
for me.  So home, and there found my wife come home, and seeming to cry; for bringing home
in a coach her new ferrandin

     [Ferrandin, which was sometimes spelt farendon, was a stuff made of
     silk mixed with some other material, like what is now called poplin.
     Both mohair and farendon are generally cheap materials; for in the
     case of Manby v. Scott, decided in the Exchequer Chamber in 1663,
     and reported in the first volume of "Modern Reports," the question
     being as to the liability of a husband to pay for goods supplied
     against his consent to his wife, who had separated from him, Mr.
     Justice Hyde (whose judgment is most amusing) observes, in putting
     various supposed cases, that "The wife will have a velvet gown and a
     satin petticoat, and the husband thinks a mohair or farendon for a
     gown, and watered tabby for a petticoat, is as fashionable, and
     fitter for her quality."--B.]

waistecoate, in Cheapside, a man asked her whether that was the way to the Tower; and while
she was answering him, another, on the other side, snatched away her bundle out of her lap,
and could not be recovered, but ran away with it, which vexes me cruelly, but it cannot be
helped.  So to my office, and there till almost 12 at night with Mr. Lewes, learning to understand
the manner of a purser's account, which is very hard and little understood by my fellow officers,
and yet mighty necessary.  So at last with great content broke up and home to supper and bed.

29th.  Lay chiding, and then pleased with my wife in bed, and did consent to her having a new
waistcoate made her for that which she lost yesterday. So to the office, and sat all the morning.
At noon dined with Mr. Coventry at Sir J. Minnes his lodgings, the first time that ever I did
yet, and am sorry for doing it now, because of obliging me to do the like to him again.  Here
dined old Captn. Marsh of the Tower with us. So to visit Sir W. Pen, and then to the office,
and there late upon business by myself, my wife being sick to-day.  So home and to supper and
to bed.

30th.  A solemn fast for the King's murther, and we were forced to keep it more than we would
have done, having forgot to take any victuals into the house.  I to church in the forenoon,
and Mr. Mills made a good sermon upon David's heart smiting him for cutting off the garment
of Saul.

     [Samuel, chap.  xxiv.  v. 5, "And it came to pass afterward, that
     David's heart smote him, because he bad cut off Saul's skirt."]

Home, and whiled away some of the afternoon at home talking with my wife. So to my office,
and all alone making up my month's accounts, which to my great trouble I find that I am got
no further than L640.  But I have had great expenses this month.  I pray God the next may be
a little better, as I hope it will.  So home and eat something such as we have, bread and butter
and milk, and so to bed.

31st.  Up and to my office, and there we sat till noon.  I home to dinner, and there found
my plate of the Soverayne with the table to it come from Mr. Christopher Pett, of which I am
very glad.  So to dinner late, and not very good, only a rabbit not half roasted, which made
me angry with my wife.  So to the office, and there till late, busy all the while.  In the
evening examining my wife's letter intended to my Lady, and another to Mademoiselle; they were
so false spelt that I was ashamed of them, and took occasion to fall out about them with my
wife, and so she wrote none, at which, however, I was, sorry, because it was in answer to a
letter of Madam about business.  Late home to supper and to bed.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                FEBRUARY
                                1662-1663

February 1st (Lord's day).  Up and to church, where Mr. Mills, a good sermon, and so home and
had a good dinner with my wife, with which I was pleased to see it neatly done, and this troubled
me to think of parting with Jane, that is come to be a very good cook.  After dinner walked
to my Lord Sandwich, and staid with him in the chamber talking almost all the afternoon, he
being not yet got abroad since his sickness.  Many discourses we had; but, among others, how
Sir R. Bernard is turned out of his Recordership of Huntingdon by the Commissioners for Regulation,
&c., at which I am troubled, because he, thinking it is done by my Lord Sandwich, will act
some of his revenge, it is likely, upon me in my business, so that I must cast about me to
get some other counsel to rely upon.  In the evening came Mr. Povey and others to see my Lord,
and they gone, my Lord and I and Povey fell to the business of Tangier, as to the victualling,
and so broke up, and I, it being a fine frost, my boy lighting me I walked home, and after
supper up to prayers, and then alone with my wife and Jane did fall to tell her what I did
expect would become of her since, after so long being my servant, she had carried herself so
as to make us be willing to put her away, and desired God to bless [her], but bid her never
to let me hear what became of her, for that I could never pardon ingratitude.  So I to bed,
my mind much troubled for the poor girl that she leaves us, and yet she not submitting herself,
for some words she spoke boldly and yet I believe innocently and out of familiarity to her
mistress about us weeks ago, I could not recall my words that she should stay with me.  Up,
and after paying Jane her wages, I went away, because I could hardly forbear weeping, and she
cried, saying it was not her fault that she went away, and indeed it is hard to say what it
is, but only her not desiring to stay that she do now go.  Thence Mr. Povey and I walked to
White Hall, it being a great frost still, and after a turn in the Park seeing them slide, we
met at the Committee for Tangier, a good full Committee, and agreed how to proceed in the dispatching
of my Lord Rutherford, and treating about this business of Mr. Cholmely and Sir J. Lawson's
proposal for the Mole.  Thence walking with Mr. Creed homewards we turned into a house and
drank a cup of Cock ale and so parted, and I to the Temple, where at my cozen Roger's chamber
I met Madam Turner, and after a little stay led her home and there left her, she and her daughter
having been at the play to-day at the Temple, it being a revelling time with them.

     [The revels were held in the Inner Temple Hall.  The last revel in
     any of the Inns of Court was held in the Inner Temple in 1733.]

Thence called at my brother's, who is at church, at the buriall of young Cumberland, a lusty
young man.  So home and there found Jane gone, for which my wife and I are very much troubled,
and myself could hardly forbear shedding tears for fear the poor wench should come to any ill
condition after her being so long with me.  So to my office and setting papers to rights, and
then home to supper and to bed.  This day at my Lord's I sent for Mr. Ashwell, and his wife
came to me, and by discourse I perceive their daughter is very fit for my turn if my family
may be as much for hers, but I doubt it will be to her loss to come to me for so small wages,
but that will be considered of.

3rd.  To the office all the morning, at noon to dinner, where Mr. Creed dined with me, and
Mr. Ashwell, with whom after dinner I discoursed concerning his daughter coming to live with
us.  I find that his daughter will be very fit, I think, as any for our turn, but the conditions
I know not what they will be, he leaving it wholly to her, which will be agreed on a while
hence when my wife sees her.  After an hour's discourse after dinner with them, I to my office
again, and there about business of the office till late, and then home to supper and to bed.

4th.  So down to the school, where Dr. Crumlum did me much honour by telling many what a present
I had made to the school, shewing my Stephanus, in four volumes, cost me L4 10s.  He also shewed
us, upon my desire, an old edition of the grammar of Colett's, where his epistle to the children
is very pretty; and in rehearsing the creed it is said "borne of the cleane Virgin Mary." 
Thence with Mr. Elborough (he being all of my old acquaintance that I could meet with here)
to a cook's shop to dinner, but I found him a fool, as he ever was, or worse.  Thence to my
cozen Roger Pepys and Mr. Phillips about my law businesses, which stand very bad, and so home
to the office, where after doing some business I went home, where I found our new mayde Mary,
that is come in Jane's place.

5th.  Up and to the office, where we sat all the morning, and then home to dinner, and found
it so well done, above what I did expect from my mayde Susan, now Jane is gone, that I did
call her in and give her sixpence. Thence walked to the Temple, and there at my cozen Roger
Pepys's chamber met by appointment with my uncle Thomas and his son Thomas, and there I shewing
them a true state of my uncle's estate as he has left it with the debts, &c., lying upon it,
we did come to some quiett talk and fair offers against an agreement on both sides, though
I do offer quite to the losing of the profit of the whole estate for 8 or 10 years together,
yet if we can gain peace, and set my mind at a little liberty, I shall be glad of it.  I did
give them a copy of this state, and we are to meet tomorrow with their answer.  So walked home,
it being a very great frost still, and to my office, there late writing letters of office business,
and so home to supper and to bed.

6th.  Up and to my office about business, examining people what they could swear against Field,
and the whole is, that he has called us cheating rogues and cheating knaves, for which we hope
to be even with him. Thence, after dinner, to the Temple, to my cozen Roger Pepys, where met
us my uncle Thomas and his son; and, after many high demands, we at last came to a kind of
agreement upon very hard terms, which are to be prepared in writing against Tuesday next. 
But by the way promising them to pay my cozen Mary's' legacys at the time of her marriage,
they afterwards told me that she was already married, and married very well, so that I must
be forced to pay it in some time.  My cozen Roger was so sensible of our coming to agreement
that he could not forbear weeping, and, indeed, though it is very hard, yet I am glad to my
heart that we are like to end our trouble.  So we parted for to-night, and I to my Lord Sandwich
and there staid, there being a Committee to sit upon the contract for the Mole, which I dare
say none of us that were there understood, but yet they agreed of things as Mr. Cholmely and
Sir J. Lawson demanded, who are the undertakers, and so I left them to go on to agree, for
I understood it not.  So home, and being called by a coachman who had a fare in him, he carried
me beyond the Old Exchange, and there set down his fare, who would not pay him what was his
due, because he carried a stranger with him, and so after wrangling he was fain to be content
with 6d., and being vexed the coachman would not carry me home a great while, but set me down
there for the other 6d., but with fair words he was willing to it, and so I came home and to
my office, setting business in order, and so to supper and to bed, my mind being in disorder
as to the greatness of this day's business that I have done, but yet glad that my trouble therein
is like to be over.

7th.  Up and to my office, whither by agreement Mr. Coventry came before the time of sitting
to confer about preparing an account of the extraordinary charge of the Navy since the King's
coming, more than is properly to be applied and called the Navy charge.  So by and by we sat,
and so till noon.  Then home to dinner, and in the afternoon some of us met again upon something
relating to the victualling, and thence to my writing of letters late, and making my Alphabet
to my new Navy book very pretty.  And so after writing to my father by the post about the endeavour
to come to a composition with my uncle, though a very bad one, desiring him to be contented
therewith, I went home to supper and to bed.

8th (Lord's day).  Up, and it being a very great frost, I walked to White
Hall, and to my Lord Sandwich's by the fireside till chapel time, and so
to chappell, where there preached little Dr. Duport, of Cambridge, upon
Josiah's words,--"But I and my house, we will serve the Lord."  But though
a great scholler, he made the most flat dead sermon, both for matter and
manner of delivery, that ever I heard, and very long beyond his hour,
which made it worse.  By and by to my Lord's, and with him a good while talking
upon his want of money, and ways of his borrowing some, &c., and then by
other visitants, I withdrew and away, Creed and I and Captn.  The king is supposed to have been father of the
     child.  A similar adventure is told of Mary Kirke (afterwards
     married to Sir Thomas Vernon), who figures in the "Grammont Memoirs"
     as Miss Warmestre.]

fell sick that afternoon, and hath disappeared ever since, so that it is concluded that it
was her.  Another story was how my Lady Castlemaine, a few days since, had Mrs. Stuart to an
entertainment, and at night began a frolique that they two must be married, and married they
were, with ring and all other ceremonies of church service, and ribbands and a sack posset
in bed, and flinging the stocking; but in the close, it is said that my Lady Castlemaine, who
was the bridegroom, rose, and the King came and took her place with pretty Mrs. Stuart.  This
is said to be very true.  Another story was how Captain Ferrers and W. Howe both have often,
through my Lady Castlemaine's window, seen her go to bed and Sir Charles Barkeley in the chamber
all the while with her.  But the other day Captn. Ferrers going to Sir Charles to excuse his
not being so timely at his arms the other day, Sir Charles swearing and cursing told him before
a great many other gentlemen that he would not suffer any man of the King's Guards to be absent
from his lodging a night without leave.  Not but that, says he, once a week or so I know a
gentleman must go .  .  ., and I am not for denying it to any man, but however he shall be
bound to ask leave to lie abroad, and to give account of his absence, that we may know what
guard the King has to depend upon.  Whether the wind and the cold did cause it or no I know
not, but having been this day or two mightily troubled with an itching all over my body' which
I took to be a louse or two that might bite me, I found this afternoon that all my body is
inflamed, and my face in a sad redness and swelling and pimpled, so that I was before we had
done walking not only sick but ashamed of myself to see myself so changed in my countenance,
so that after we had thus talked we parted and I walked home with much ado (Captn. Ferrers
with me as far as Ludgate Hill towards Mr. Moore at the Wardrobe), the ways being so full of
ice and water by peoples' trampling.  At last got home and to bed presently, and had a very
bad night of it, in great pain in my stomach, and in great fever.

9th.  Could not rise and go to the Duke, as I should have done with the rest, but keep my bed
and by the Apothecary's advice, Mr. Battersby, I am to sweat soundly, and that will carry all
this matter away which nature would of itself eject, but they will assist nature, it being
some disorder given the blood, but by what I know not, unless it be by my late quantitys of
Dantzic-girkins that I have eaten.  In the evening came Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten to
see me, and Sir J. Minnes advises me to the same thing, but would not have me take anything
from the apothecary, but from him, his Venice treacle being better than the others, which I
did consent to and did anon take and fell into a great sweat, and about 10 or 11 o'clock came
out of it and shifted myself, and slept pretty well alone, my wife lying in the red chamber above.

10th.  In the morning most of my disease, that is, itching and pimples, were gone.  In the
morning visited by Mr. Coventry and others, and very glad I am to see that I am so much inquired
after and my sickness taken notice of as I did.  I keep my bed all day and sweat again at night,
by which I expect to be very well to-morrow.  This evening Sir W. Warren came himself to the
door and left a letter and box for me, and went his way. His letter mentions his giving me
and my wife a pair of gloves; but, opening the box, we found a pair of plain white gloves for
my hand, and a fair state dish of silver, and cup, with my arms, ready cut upon them, worth,
I believe, about L18, which is a very noble present, and the best I ever had yet.  So after
some contentful talk with my wife, she to bed and I to rest.

11th.  Took a clyster in the morning and rose in the afternoon.  My wife and I dined on a pullet
and I eat heartily, having eat nothing since Sunday but water gruel and posset drink, but must
needs say that our new maid Mary has played her part very well in her readiness and discretion
in attending me, of which I am very glad.  In the afternoon several people came to see me,
my uncle Thomas, Mr. Creed, Sir J. Minnes (who has been, God knows to what end, mighty kind
to me and careful of me in my sickness).  At night my wife read Sir H. Vane's tryall to me,
which she began last night, and I find it a very excellent thing, worth reading, and him to
have been a very wise man.  So to supper and to bed.

12th.  Up and find myself pretty well, and so to the office, and there all the morning.  Rose
at noon and home to dinner in my green chamber, having a good fire.  Thither there came my
wife's brother and brought Mary Ashwell with him, whom we find a very likely person to please
us, both for person, discourse, and other qualitys.  She dined with us, and after dinner went
away again, being agreed to come to us about three weeks or a month hence.  My wife and I well
pleased with our choice, only I pray God I may be able to maintain it.  Then came an old man
from Mr. Povy, to give me some advice about his experience in the stone, which I [am] beholden
to him for, and was well pleased with it, his chief remedy being Castle soap in a posset. 
Then in the evening to the office, late writing letters and my Journall since Saturday, and
so home to supper and to bed.

13th.  Lay very long with my wife in bed talking with great pleasure, and then rose.  This
morning Mr. Cole, our timber merchant, sent me five couple of ducks.  Our maid Susan is very
ill, and so the whole trouble of the house lies upon our maid Mary, who do it very contentedly
and mighty well, but I am sorry she is forced to it.  Dined upon one couple of ducks to-day,
and after dinner my wife and I by coach to Tom's, and I to the Temple to discourse with my
cozen Roger Pepys about my law business, and so back again, it being a monstrous thaw after
the long great frost, so that there is no passing but by coach in the streets, and hardly that.
Took my wife home, and I to my office.  So home to supper and to bed.  This day I bought the
second part of Dr. Bates's Elenchus, which reaches to the fall of Richard, and no further,
for which I am sorry. This evening my wife had a great mind to choose Valentines against to-morrow,
I Mrs. Clerke, or Pierce, she Mr. Hunt or Captain Ferrers, but I would not because of getting
charge both to me for mine and to them for her, which did not please her.

14th.  Up and to my office, where we met and sate all the morning, only Mr. Coventry, which
I think is the first or second time he has missed since he came to the office, was forced to
be absent.  So home to dinner, my wife and I upon a couple of ducks, and then by coach to the
Temple, where my uncle Thomas, and his sons both, and I, did meet at my cozen Roger's and there
sign and seal to an agreement.  Wherein I was displeased at nothing but my cozen Roger's insisting
upon my being obliged to settle upon them as the will do all my uncle's estate that he has
left, without power of selling any for the payment of debts, but I would not yield to it without
leave of selling, my Lord Sandwich himself and my cozen Thos. Pepys being judges of the necessity
thereof, which was done.  One thing more that troubles me was my being forced to promise to
give half of what personal estate could be found more than L372, which I reported to them,
which though I do not know it to be less than what we really have found, yet he would have
been glad to have been at liberty for that, but at last I did agree to it under my own handwriting
on the backside of the report I did make and did give them of the estate, and have taken a
copy of it upon the backside of one that I have.  All being done I took the father and his
son Thos. home by coach, and did pay them L30, the arrears of the father's annuity, and with
great seeming love parted, and I presently to bed, my head akeing mightily with the hot dispute
I did hold with my cozen Roger and them in the business.

15th (Lord's day).  This morning my wife did wake me being frighted with the noise I made in
my sleep, being a dream that one of our sea maisters did desire to see the St. John's Isle
of my drawing, which methought I showed him, but methought he did handle it so hard that it
put me to very horrid pain .  .  .  .  Which what a strange extravagant dream it was. So to
sleep again and lay long in bed, and then trimmed by the barber, and so sending Will to church,
myself staid at home, hanging up in my green chamber my picture of the Soveraigne, and putting
some things in order there.  So to dinner, to three more ducks and two teals, my wife and I.
Then to Church, where a dull sermon, and so home, and after walking about the house awhile
discoursing with my wife, I to my office there to set down something and to prepare businesses
for tomorrow, having in the morning read over my vows, which through sicknesse I could not
do the last Lord's day, and not through forgetfulness or negligence, so that I hope it is no
breach of my vow not to pay my forfeiture.  So home, and after prayers to bed, talking long
with my wife and teaching her things in astronomy.

16th.  Up and by coach with Sir W. Batten and Sir J. Minnes to White Hall, and, after we had
done our usual business with the Duke, to my Lord Sandwich and by his desire to Sir W. Wheeler,
who was brought down in a sedan chair from his chamber, being lame of the gout, to borrow L1000
of him for my Lord's occasions, but he gave me a very kind denial that he could not, but if
any body else would, he would be bond with my Lord for it.  Thence to my Lord Crew's and dined
there, there being much company, and the above-said matter is now the present publique discourse.
Thence about several businesses to Mr. Phillips my attorney, to stop all proceedings at law,
and so to the Temple, where at the Solicitor General's I found Mr. Cholmely and Creed reading
to him the agreement for him to put into form about the contract for the Mole at Tangier, which
is done at 13s. the Cubical yard, though upon my conscience not one of the Committee, besides
the parties concerned, do understand what they do therein, whether they give too much or too
little.  Thence with Mr. Creed to see Mr. Moore, who continues sick still, within doors, and
here I staid a good while after him talking of all the things either business or no that came
into my mind, and so home and to see Sir W. Pen, and sat and played at cards with him, his
daughter, and Mrs. Rooth, and so to my office a while, and then home and to bed.

17th.  He did keep my Lord at the window, thus reviling and braving him above an hour, my Lady
Wright being by; but my Lord tells me she could not hear every word, but did well know what
their discourse was; she could hear enough to know that.  So that he commands me to keep it
as the greatest secret in the world, and bids me beware of speaking words against Mr. Montagu,
for fear I should suffer by his passion thereby.  After he had told me this I took coach and
home, where I found my wife come home and in bed with her sister in law in the chamber with
her, she not being able to stay to see the wassel, being so ill .  .  ., which I was sorry
for. Hither we sent for her sister's viall, upon which she plays pretty well for a girl, but
my expectation is much deceived in her, not only for that, but in her spirit, she being I perceive
a very subtle witty jade, and one that will give her husband trouble enough as little as she
is, whereas I took her heretofore for a very child and a simple fool.  I played also, which
I have not done this long time before upon any instrument, and at last broke up and I to my
office a little while, being fearful of being too much taken with musique, for fear of returning
to my old dotage thereon, and so neglect my business as I used to do.  Then home and to bed.
And that the Queen-Mother's Court is now the greatest of all; and that our own Queen hath little
or no company come to her, which I know also to be very true, and am sorry to see it.

18th.  Up, leaving my wife sick as last night in bed.  I to my office all the morning, casting
up with Captain Cocke their accounts of 500 tons of hemp brought from Riga, and bought by him
and partners upon account, wherein are many things worth my knowledge.  I made an end by eleven
o'clock at night, and so home to bed almost weary.  Up and to my office, where abundance of
business all the morning. Dined by my wife's bedside, she not being yet well.  We fell out
almost upon my discourse of delaying the having of Ashwell, where my wife believing that I
have a mind to have Pall, which I have not, though I could wish she did deserve to be had.
So to my office, where by and by we sat, this afternoon being the first we have met upon a
great while, our times being changed because of the parliament sitting.  Being rose, I to my
office till twelve at night, drawing out copies of the overcharge of the Navy, one to send
to Mr. Coventry early to-morrow.  So home and to bed, being weary, sleepy, and my eyes begin
to fail me, looking so long by candlelight upon white paper.

20th.  Up and by water with Commissioner Pett to Deptford, and there looked over the yard,
and had a call, wherein I am very highly pleased with our new manner of call-books, being my
invention.  Thence thinking to have gone down to Woolwich in the Charles pleasure boat, but
she run aground, it being almost low water, and so by oars to the town, and there dined, and
then to the yard at Mr. Ackworth's, discoursing with the officers of the yard about their stores
of masts, which was our chief business, and having done something therein, took boat and to
the pleasure boat, which was come down to fetch us back, and I could have been sick if I would
in going, the wind being very fresh, but very pleasant it was, and the first time I have sailed
in any one of them.  It carried us to Cuckold's Point, and so by oars to the Temple, it raining
hard, where missed speaking with my cosen Roger, and so walked home and to my office; there
spent the night till bed time, and so home to supper and to bed.  Being met by Captn. To my
office and set down this day's journall, and so home with my mind out of order, though not
very sad with it, but ashamed for myself something, and for the honour of the office much more.
So home and to bed.

22d (Lord's day).  So at night discontented to prayers, and to bed.

23d.  While my wife dressed herself, Creed and I walked out to see what play was acted to-day,
and we find it "The Slighted Mayde."  But, Lord!  to see that though I did know myself to be
out of danger, yet I durst not go through the street, but round by the garden into Tower Street.
By and by took coach, and to the Duke's house, where we saw it well acted, though the play
hath little good in it, being most pleased to see the little girl dance in boy's apparel, she
having very fine legs, only bends in the hams, as I perceive all women do.  It being done,
we got a coach and got well home about 12 at night.  Now as my mind was but very ill satisfied
with these two plays themselves, so was I in the midst of them sad to think of the spending
so much money and venturing upon the breach of my vow, which I found myself sorry for, I bless
God, though my nature would well be contented to follow the pleasure still.  But I did make
payment of my forfeiture presently, though I hope to save it back again by forbearing two plays
at Court for this one at the Theatre, or else to forbear that to the Theatre which I am to
have at Easter.  But it being my birthday and my day of liberty regained to me, and lastly,
the last play that is likely to be acted at Court before Easter, because of the Lent coming
in, I was the easier content to fling away so much money. So to bed.

24th.  Slept hard till 8 o'clock, then waked by Mr. Clerke's being come to consult me about
Field's business, which we did by calling him up to my bedside, and he says we shall trounce
him.  Then up, and to the office, and at 11 o'clock by water to Westminster, and to Sir W.
Wheeler's about my Lord's borrowing of money that I was lately upon with him, and then to my
Lord, who continues ill, but will do well I doubt not.  Thence home again by water presently,
and with a bad dinner, being not looked for, to the office, and there we sat, and then Captn.
Cocke and I upon his hemp accounts till 9 at night, and then, I not very well, home to supper
and to bed.  My late distemper of heat and itching being come upon me again, so that I must
think of sweating again as I did before.

25th.  Up and to my office, where with Captain Cocke making an end of his last night's accounts
till noon, and so home to dinner, my wife being come in from laying out about L4 in provision
of several things against Lent. In the afternoon to the Temple, my brother's, the Wardrobe,
to Mr. Moore, and other places, called at about small businesses, and so at night home to my
office and then to supper and to bed.  Up and drinking a draft of wormewood wine with Sir W.
Batten at the Steelyard, he and I by water to the Parliament-house: he went in, and I walked
up and down the Hall.  Thence to my Lord's, who, I hear, has his ague again, for which I am
sorry, and Creed and I to the King's Head ordinary, where much good company.  Among the rest
a young gallant lately come from France, who was full of his French, but methought not very
good, but he had enough to make him think himself a wise man a great while.  Thence by water
from the New Exchange home to the Tower, and so sat at the office, and then writing letters
till 11 at night.  Troubled this evening that my wife is not come home from Chelsey, whither
she is gone to see the play at the school where Ashwell is, but she came at last, it seems,
by water, and tells me she is much pleased with Ashwell's acting and carriage, which I am glad
of.  So home and to supper and bed.

27th.  Up and to my office, whither several persons came to me about office business.  I did
touch the dead body with my bare hand: it felt cold, but methought it was a very unpleasant
sight.  Thence we went into a private room, where I perceive they prepare the bodies, and there
were the kidneys, ureters [&c.], upon which he read to-day, and Dr. Scarborough upon my desire
and the company's did show very clearly the manner of the disease of the stone and the cutting
and all other questions that I could think of .  .  . how the water [comes] into the bladder
through the three skins or coats just as poor Dr. Jolly has heretofore told me. Thence with
great satisfaction to me back to the Company, where I heard good discourse, and so to the afternoon
Lecture upon the heart and lungs, &c., and that being done we broke up, took leave, and back
to the office, we two, Sir W. Batten, who dined here also, being gone before.  All this I am
glad to see fall out between them and myself safe, and yet I hope the King's service well done
for all this, for I would not that should be hindered by any of our private differences.  So
to my office, and then home to supper and to bed.

28th.  Waked with great pain in my right ear (which I find myself much subject to) having taken
cold.  Up and to my office, where we sat all the morning, and I dined with Sir W. Batten by
chance, being in business together about a bargain of New England masts.  Then to the Temple
to meet my uncle Thomas, who I found there, but my cozen Roger not being come home I took boat
and to Westminster, where I found him in Parliament this afternoon.  Thence he and I to my
Lord Sandwich, who continues troubled with his cold.  Our discourse most upon the outing of
Sir R. Bernard, and my Lord's being made Recorder of Huntingdon in his stead, which he seems
well contented with, saying, that it may be for his convenience to have the chief officer of
the town dependent upon him, which is very true.  Thence he and I to the Temple, but my uncle
being gone we parted, and I walked home, and to my office, and at nine o'clock had a good supper
of an oxe's cheek, of my wife's dressing and baking, and so to my office again till past eleven
at night, making up my month's account, and find that I am at a stay with what I was last,
that is L640. So home and to bed.

     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     After oysters, at first course, a hash of rabbits, a lamb
     At last we pretty good friends
     Before I sent my boy out with them, I beat him for a lie
     Dr. Calamy is this day sent to Newgate for preaching
     Eat a mouthful of pye at home to stay my stomach
     Familiarity with her other servants is it that spoils them all
     Feverish, and hath sent for Mr. Pierce to let him blood
     Found him a fool, as he ever was, or worse
     Goes down the wind in honour as well as every thing else
     Had a good supper of an oxe's cheek
     Hanged with a silken halter
     How highly the Presbyters do talk in the coffeehouses still
     I and she never were so heartily angry in our lives as to-day
     Ill humour to be so against that which all the world cries up
     Lady Castlemaine hath all the King's Christmas presents
     Lay chiding, and then pleased with my wife in bed
     Lay very long with my wife in bed talking with great pleasure
     Liability of a husband to pay for goods supplied his wife
     Many thousands in a little time go out of England
     Money, which sweetens all things
     Most flat dead sermon, both for matter and manner of delivery
     Much discourse, but little to be learned
     Nor will yield that the Papists have any ground given them
     Nothing in the world done with true integrity
     Once a week or so I know a gentleman must go .  .  .  .
     Pain of the stone, and makes bloody water with great pain
     Rabbit not half roasted, which made me angry with my wife
     Scholler, but, it may be, thinks himself to be too much so
     See how time and example may alter a man
     Servant of the King's pleasures too, as well as business
     So home, and mighty friends with my wife again
     So neat and kind one to another
     Sorry for doing it now, because of obliging me to do the like
     Talk very highly of liberty of conscience
     The house was full of citizens, and so the less pleasant
     There is no passing but by coach in the streets, and hardly that
     These young Lords are not fit to do any service abroad
     They were so false spelt that I was ashamed of them
     Vexed at my wife's neglect in leaving of her scarf
     Wine, new and old, with labells pasted upon each bottle
     With much ado in an hour getting a coach home
     Yet it was her fault not to see that I did take them

