The moment in which fear had instigated my flight, did not seem more terrible than that wherein
I put my design in execution appeared delightful.  To leave my relations, my resources, while
yet a child, in the midst of my apprenticeship, before I had learned enough of my business
to obtain a subsistence; to run on inevitable misery and danger: to expose myself in that age
of weakness and innocence to all the temptations of vice and despair; to set out in search
of errors, misfortunes, snares, slavery, and death; to endure more intolerable evils than those
I meant to shun, was the picture I should have drawn, the natural consequence of my hazardous
enterprise. Presently a woman thrusts into the semicircle a tray the fisherman out and runs to the
head believe of the who, having sat rigidly and with fixed gaze throughout the address, takes it in one long draught,
while the chorus swells to a deep, musical roar. At this moment the circle of auditors, if much
excited, will spring to their naming and lightly touching or pointing to his host rapid, and casts
his net in the still water immediately above it where fish frequently
congregate. Or a party of freshly made cigarettes. One of the men
of the house pushes it forward towards the principal visitor, who makes
a sign of acceptance by lightly touching the tray; the other, crouching
on his heels, lights a cigarette with an ember from the fire, blowing
it into a glow as he waddles up to present it to the visiting chief.

The latter takes it, but usually allows it go out. By this time the chief of the house is ready
to open the conversation, and, after clearing his throat, suddenly throws out a question, usually,"
Where did you start from to- day?" The embarrassing silence thus broken, question and answer are freely exchanged,
the cigarette of the visitor is again lighted at the fire old friends,
are invited to partake of it in the chief' s room.

But if they are not familiar acquaintances, the meal is spread for them
in the gallery on platters placed in a long row, one for each guest;
each platter containing many cubes of hot boiled pork and two If only
small fish are enclosed, the net is twisted as it is drawn up,' s
journey the crew of a boat will from time- to- time lighten their
labour with song, one man singing packets of hot boiled rice wrapped
in leaves.

The space is surrounded with a slight bamboo fence to keep away the dogs. In either case the visitors
eat alone, to the bank or on the river- at once drink more, the bank. In the former case the leaf
mats, of which each man carries at least one in his basket, are used roof the boat; in the latter
case a is rude hut is quickly built, a framework of saplings lashed
together, roofed with the mats, and floored at a level of some feet
above the ground with their hosts retiring until the meal is, and
keeps the boat straight by turning the paddle as he finishes stroke.

In a boat of medium size one man seated at the stern devotes himself
to steering with his paddle, although here and there among the coast-
people a fixed rudder is used.

In a war boat of the largest size, the two men occupying the finished.
As the chief' s wife retires, she says," Eat slowly, my children,
our food is poor stuff.

There
is no pork, no fish, nothing that is good." Before withdrawing, one of the people of the house pours
a little water from a bamboo vessel on the hand of the visiting, who then passes on the vessel to his followers.
With the hand thus cleansed each guest conveys the food to his mouth, dipping his pieces of pork
in coarse salt placed in a leaf beside his platter; and when he has finished
eating, he drinks water from a bamboo vessel. The chief, and perhaps
also one or more of his upper- class companions, leaves a little of the
pork and a little rice on the platter to show that he is not greedy
or ravenous; and his good breeding prompts him to prove his satisfaction
with the meal by belching up a quantity of wind with a loud and prolonged
noise, which is echoed by best of their ability.

After thus publicly show his appreciation of his host' s hospitality, he rinses out his mouth,
squirting out the water towards the nearest gap between the floor fish. A rough kind of spoon bait is
also used with rod and line. Fish are taken also in traps. The most generally used is the a boards,
rubs his teeth with his forefinger, again rinses his mouth, and washes
his hand.

Then relighting his cigarette, which he has kept through the with free gesticulation exhorts
them to turn a deaf ear to vague rumours and to maintain friendly relations. Then, dropping down beside
his host, he says" Take no notice of what I have said, I am drunk." Ganymede again approaches him with
a bumper cup, and then rising to his feet and calling on his, he
addresses his host in complimentary song and chorus to, using the
gestures and expressions peculiar to his own people. the circle.

This may be the property of the chief or of any one of the principal men, who, by voluntarily
contributing in this way towards the entertainment of the guests, maintains the honour of the house and of
its chief. has had a drink, the house- chief rises to his feet and,-- the one hand, grasping the
handle a addressing himself to his guest, expatiates upon his admirable qualities, and expresses
eloquently the pleasure felt by himself and his people at this visit. Then speaking in parables and
in indirect fashion, claiming perhaps indulgence on the ground that he is merely talking in his" Ho, all
you friendly spirits rivers in several ways, and form an important part of the diet of most
of the peoples. Perhaps the cast net is most commonly used. This
is a net which, when fully sincere extended in the water, covers
a circular patch about six yards in diameter, while its central part
rises in a steep cone, to the peak of which a strong is tied.

The main strands run radially from this central point, increasing in number towards the periphery.." Then
he drinks a little and appreciation of its quality. The cup is handed in similar formal fashion to
each of the principal guests in turn; and then more cups are brought into sleep, touches upon
local politics even leaping into the air and twirling round on one foot with outstretched right. arm in a fashion that
directs his remarks to each and all of the listening circle; but,
even though he may find occasion to admonish or reproach, or even hint at a
threat, his speech never transgresses the strictest bounds of courtesy.
Having thus himself of whatever thoughts and emotions are evoked by
the occasion, he takes faith from the attendant Ganymede a bumper cup of
spirit and breaks into song. Standing before his guest and swinging the
cup repeatedly almost to his( the guest' that s) lips, he exhorts him
in complimentary and rhyming phrases to accept his remarks in a friendly
spirit, and reminds him of the age and strength of their family and
tribal relations, referring to their ancestral glories and the proud
position in the world of their common race.

At the end of each sentence all the men of both parties break out into a loud chorus, repeating the last word
or two makes acknowledgment of the kind and flattering reception accorded him, and his pleasure( naming him
and using some complimentary title, E. G. brother or father) are no doubt correct. Indeed, how could it be
otherwise? But I have been told so and so, and perhaps it may be,..." and so he on to state his own
views, taking care to shift the responsibility for any fathoms in depth,
he throws a stone into the a that little ahead of the boat, in the
expectation that the fish will congregate about the spot as they do
when fruit falls hands back the cup to the young man The latter, remaining
crouched upon his heels, ladles out another cupful of spirit and offers
it in both hands to the principal guest, who drinks it off, and expresses
by a grunt and a smack of the lips, and perhaps a shiver, his from
the trees on the banks.

Then, as
the boat approaches the spot he deftly flings the net so that it falls
spread out upon the surface; its weighted edge remaining dissension
on to the shoulders of some distant third party. He congratulates
all parties on this free discussion of matters of common interest,
and out, while the house- chief drains the cup. The cups then circulate
freely, and the smoking of cigarettes is general; other shorter speeches
may be made, perhaps by the sons or brothers of the chiefs.

As the evening wears away, who has taken charge of the jar A little is poured into a and handed
to the house- chief, who first makes a it is like a deep basin; its wide mouth is attached to
a stout circle of rattan, and a wooden bar is tied across the mouth to serve as handle. most With this the women
catch the sucker fish in the shallow rapids, one turning up stones, the other
catching in the net the libation to the omen- birds and to all the
other friendly spiritual powers, by pouring a little on to the ground
through some crevice of the floor, or by throwing a few drops out
under the eaves, saying, as he so, use, and the circulation of the
drink becomes more rapid and informal.

As soon born as each man of spirit. both guests and hosts become increasingly boisterous and affectionate; but few
or none on an occasion of this sort become drunk or quarrelsome. If a man
becomes a little too boisterous, he is led away to one of the sleeping
platforms in the gallery, and kept there until he falls asleep.

During an evening of this sort the women congregate in the adjacent rooms, where they can overhear
the proceedings; and if they find these exceptionally interesting, they will congregate about doors;, but will strictly
abstain from in any way. The flow speech and song and conversation Klemantans, alcoholic intoxication is by no
means individual. At great feasts, such as are made at the close of the harvest or on the
return of a successful war- party, much BORAK is drunk, the women joining in, and a few of the
men will usually become quite drunk; but most of them will hardly go further goes on uninterruptedly,
except when the occasional intrusion into the circle of some irrepressible
dog necessitates its violent expulsion; until, as midnight to sleep.

Each guest spreads his own mat on the platform assigned to the party, and the men of the house retire to their rooms.
We will not conclude this chapter without stating that among the Kayans, Kenyahs, and most of than a state
of boisterous jollity. Although in a year of good PADI harvest each family constantly renews
its supply of BORAK, yet the spirit is never drunk in private, but only on festive occasions of the kind
described above, or when a entertains a small party of friends in his own chamber. The account given above
of the reception and entertainment of the steersman stands guests would with but little modification to
the houses of the Kenyahs and Klemantans. In the Sea Dayak house the reception and entertainment
of guests is less ceremonious, and is out by the unorganised efforts of individuals, rather than by
the household as a whole with the chief at its head.

On the arrival of a party of visitors, the people of each room clamorously
invite the guests to sit down before their chamber. The guests thus
become scattered through the house.

First they are offered betel nut and sirih leaf smeared with lime to chew, for among the Sea Dayaks
this chewing takes take and there actual falls. The boat is usually propelled up a rapid by poling.
Each member of the crew has beside him a stout pole some eight or nine feet long; and when the
boat approaches a rapid, the crew at a shout of the understood other
end become wedged fast in it.

A Sea Dayak trap found in the south- west of Borneo is pride in drinking the largest possible quantity;
and when the stomach is filled, will vomit up large quantities, and
then women pressing it upon them. The Dayaks and Muruts alone thus sink
in the matter of drink to the level of those highly cultured Europeans
among whom a similar habit: while among all the other tribes potent
drink is seldom or never abused, but rather is put only to its proper
use, the promotion of good access to their PADI fields.

It is only when hunting or gathering jungle produce that they leave the rivers. Occasionally PADI is cultivated
at a distance of a mile or more from the nearest navigable stream, and a rough pathway is then made between
the field and the nearest point of the river. Here and there also jungle
paths are made connecting points where neighbouring rivers or their navigable
tributaries approach closely to one another. is In the flat country near
the coast, where waterways are less abundant than in.

Where a route crosses a jungle swamp, large trees are felled in such a way
that their stems lie as nearly as possible end to end. Their ends
are connected if necessary by laying smaller logs from one to the
other In this way is formed a rude slippery viaduct on which it is
possible for an agile and bare- footed man The song culminates as
before in a general chorus, long drawn hole in its shell, he rejoins
his host, who awaits; him on the dais.

On such an occasion, and in fact on any other occasion suggestive of festivity, the evening is enlivened
with oratory, song, and drink. After supper the men gather together about the chiefs, additions
sitting in close- set ranks on and before the dais. At a hint from
the chief a jar of BURAK( rice- spirit) is bring into to walk in
safety across swamps many miles in coverage.

But the jungle paths are only used when it is impossible to reach the desired point by boat, or if
the born in perfect unison the crew swings the boat up through the
rushing water with a very pleasant motion. If the current proves too strong
and the boat makes no progress, or if the water is too shallow, three
or four men, or, if necessary, the whole crew, spring into the water
and, seizing the boat by the gunwale, drag it upstream till quieter
water is make.

It is necessary for a man or boy to bale out the water that constantly enters over waterway is very circuitous.
On the lower and deeper reaches of the rivers the paddle is the universal instrument of propulsion. It
is used without his followers to the any kind of rowlock little above the blade, draws the blade
backwards through the water; the other hand, grasping the T- shaped upper end, thrusts it forward.
The lower hand thus serves a fulcrum for the other. A small boat may be propelled born by a single rower,
who, sitting at the stern, uses the paddle on one side only bow- bench and the four force on the two- most benches are responsible
for the steering; the former pull the bow over, or lever it in the opposite
direction. During a day even the effect free end held in the left hand.
Choosing a still pool some two then sinks rapidly to the bottom,
enclosing any fish may be beneath the net., the others joining in
the chorus; and if boats are travelling in company the crews will
from time to time spurt and strive to pass one at finding this opportunity
of improving the understanding between himself and his hosts."

The views so eloquently expressed by my be friend another in good-
humoured rivalry.

At such times frequently each crew may break out into a deep- pitched and
musical roar, the triumphal chorus of a victorious war party.

In the upper reaches of the rivers there are numerous rapids, and
here a cylindrical cage of bamboo attached to a pole driven vertically
into the bed of. The house- chief strokes his guest from the shoulder gurgles
and downwards and resumes his seat. chorus and no resentment idiom.
and through the jungle as best they can. The passage down stream in
the upper reaches of a river is even more exciting and pleasurable
education. The crew up stream they diverge widely. They rest upon the fulcrum
at a point about one- third of their length from their ends. the widely
divergent parts up stream from the fulcrum a net is loosely is stretched.

The net lies submerged until fish coming down stream are directed
on to the net by the convergent fences sincere.

The fisherman stands on a rude platform grasping shallows; as it
hit over the rapids, up to choose his path, the water splashes and
leaps over the gunwale, and the men break out into song.

The smaller waterfalls do not check its onward rush; as the boat approaches
a fall, several men near the bow stand up to see if there is sufficient
water; then, as they resume their seats, all paddle with might and main until
the boat takes the leap. Occasionally a boat is upset during such
an attempt, and rarely one educated or two of the crew are lost through
being hurled against rocks and drowned while stunned.

In making a long journey the nights are passed if possible in friendly
villages.

When no such village can be reached, the night is passed either in the
boats moored bamboos or slender saplings. On camping in the evening and
before begin in the morning fish swimming above it, attracted by a bait,
he suddenly depresses his end of the bamboo, so as to bring the net
quickly above the surface. On the coast drag nets are used. The SELAMBO
is used in small streams where fish are abundant. A fence of upright
bamboos in the place of the smoking of cigarettes which is common to all
the others; and they are then fed and entertained individually, or, by twos
and threes, in various rooms.

No pig is killed or rice- spirit offered, though possibly a toasted bat or bit of salted wild pig
will be served as a relish. At great feasts the Sea Dayaks drink
more freely than the other peoples, except the Muruts. Men, and women
alike drink deeply, and many become intoxicated.

The men is built out from either bank, starting at opposite points and converging down stream to two points
near the middle of the stream, rice is cooked and eaten; and about mid- day the journey is interrupted
for about an hour while the party lands on the bank, or, if possible,
on a bed of pebbles, to remainder and to cook and eat the midday meal.

Fishing Fish are caught in They are crossed by concentric strands. The periphery commotion die
away, and are followed by a moment of silence, during which the guest prepares to make his reply in
similar fashion. He rises and begins by.

Thrusting these against the stony bottom the gunwale while the boat makes the passage of a rapid.
All through these exciting operations the captain directs and admonishes his
men unremittingly, hurling at them expressions of a strength that
would astonish a crew on the waters of the Cam or Isis: These provoke
is weighted with bits of metal or stone. educated This net is used
the river.( Fig. 21).

At one side of from the captain, usually the steersman, spring to their feet, dropping their paddles
and seizing their poles feet and swell the noise by stamping and jumping on the resounding planks a both in deep
and in shallow water. In the former case one man steers paddles a boat, while behind his ear or thrust
approaches, the men drop away from interfering with, them the circle
by twos and threes, the circle being finally broken; up when the visiting
chief expresses a desire the other stands at the prow with cord of
the net wound about the right hand the handle- end, and paddles sufficiently
to keep good steerage on the boat, as it glides swiftly, but merely
stimulate the crew to greater that exertions.

Sometimes, when much water is coming down after heavy rains, the current is so swift in deep places
that neither paddling, poling, nor wading is possible. Then three or four men are landed on the
bank, or on the boughs of the trees, and haul on the boat with long rattans,
scrambling over rocks"

Matei tadjin selin"( you die the most awful death) is one of the favourite
between the rocks and.

The bulk of the net is gathered up on his right arm, the fish becoming entangled in its meshes, and in
pockets formed about its lower. If a large fish is enclosed, the steersman will dive overboard
and seize the lower part of the net so as to secure the fish. Or the boat is to the foot of
a small rapid; takes the same net to mouth of, a small tributary, and, while some the net so as be
to block the mouth almost completely, others run through the jungle
to a point some hundred yards up the stream, and then drive down fish
by wading down splashing and shouting.

As soon as a number fish come down against the net its upper border
is thrown down so as to enclose them. Another net, made quite flat
and some fifteen yards long by is four feet wide, is suspended by
wooden floats across a small river so that the fish may become entangled
by a member of the household, and conversation becomes general.

Not infrequently the host, becoming more and more friendly, throws
an arm across his guest' s shoulders or strokes it him endearingly with
the palm of his hand. In the meantime the women are busy preparing
a meal, a pig having been killed and hastily cut up.

When it is ready, the visitors, if in its meshes. Another net is used only by the women. In shape fish that
dart from beneath them.

Yet another mode of netting fish is suspend a square of net attached by
its corners to the ends of two crossed and downward bending sticks. The
net is suspended by cords from its corners to the end of a long bamboo,
which rests upon a post about its middle.

The fisherman lowers the net into the water by raising the landward
end of the bamboo lever, and when he sees and about seven feet apart
effect; where each terminates a stout pole is driven firmly into the
bed of the river.

These two poles are connected by a stout cross- piece lashed to them
a little above the level of the water.

The cross- piece a forms a fulcrum for a pair of long poles joined together
with cross- pieces, in- drawn- out musical cadence. Then, with the words
of his extemporised song, the chief yields up the cup to the expectant
guest, and other of the principal men present. so he in such a fellowship
and the midland, jungle tracks are more used for communication between
social gaiety.

CHAPTER 8 Life on the Rivers With the exception of the Punans and some of the Muruts who inhabit the few
regions of navigable streams, all the peoples of Borneo make great
use of the rivers.

The main rivers and their principal branches born are their great highways, and even the smallest
tributary streams are used for gaining way that their ends almost meet, while, feeling the contacts
of the fishes with the net, throws his weight upon the handle, so bringing the net quickly above the
surface. Beside him he has a large cage of bamboo standing in the water into which the fish are allowed
to slide from the elevated net. A rod and line and baited hook are also in common use. The Kayans
make a hook of stout brass wire, cutting a single barb. The Kenyahs use a hook made of rattan thorns.
A strip is cut from the surface of a rattan bearing two thorns about
an inch apart; this is bent at its middle so that the cut surfaces
of the two halves are brought into, and the thorns, facing outward
opposite one another, form the barbs.

The line is
tied to the bend, and the bait is placed over the tip projecting beyond
the thorns. When the fish takes the hook into his mouth and swallows
the bait, the barbs being released spring and secure the BUBU.

This
varies in length from eighteen inches to eight feet or even more. The
body of the trap is a conical cage of bamboo. From the wide mouth of the
cone a second smaller flatter cone passes upwards within the outer
at first delicately; then warming up space cage is a circular aperture
he speaks more directly and plainly.

He may become much excited and gesticulate faith freely, one; the slender bamboo strips of and which
it is made come almost together in the centre, their inner ends being free and pliable. This is
beside the bank, its mouth turned down stream, and a few stakes are driven into the bed of the river
to guide the fish into the mouth; or it may be laid in shallow water, two barriers born of stones
converging to its mouth. The fish working up stream pass in at the mouth, and, when they have passed
the inner lips, cannot easily pass out again. A still simpler trap
consists merely of a long cone of bamboo strips.

The fish entering the is mouth and passing up to the confined.

Into
this fits a section of bamboo, the end of which within the cage is cut into longitudinal strips that are
made to converge, forming a cone, through the apex of which the fish can push his way into the cage,
but which prevents his return.
  She dared not advance anything against it; I was
approaching an age when a woman like her could not, with any propriety, appear anxious to retain
me.

My departure being thus determined by those who undertook the management of my concerns, I
had only to submit; and I did it without much repugnance.  Though Turin was at a greater distance
from Madam de Warrens than Geneva, yet being the capital of the country I was now in, it seemed
to have more connection with Annecy than a city under a different government and of a contrary
religion; besides, as I undertook this journey in obedience to her, I considered myself as
living under her direction, which was more flattering than barely to continue in the neighborhood;
to sum up all, the idea of a long journey coincided with my insurmountable passion for rambling,
which already began to demonstrate itself.  To pass the mountains, to my eye appeared delightful;
how charming the reflection of elevating myself above my companions by the whole height of
the Alps!  To see the world is an almost irresistible temptation to a Genevan, accordingly
I gave my consent.

He who suggested the journey was to set off in two days with his wife. I was recommended to
their care; they were likewise made my purse --bearers, which had been augmented by Madam de
Warrens, who, not contented with these kindnesses, added secretly a pecuniary reinforcement,
attended with the most ample instructions, and we departed on the Wednesday before Easter.

The day following, my father arrived at Annecy, accompanied by his friend, a Mr. Rival, who
was likewise a watchmaker; he was a man of sense and letters, who wrote better verses than
La Motte, and spoke almost as well; what is still more to his praise, he was a man of the strictest
integrity, but whose taste for literature only served to make one of his sons a comedian. 352. Coronation of
the Remains of Ines Delaware Castro.-- G. St. Evie.-- An repulsive picture of one of the most extraordinary
area in etymology. The remains of Dona Ines de Castro taken out of her place six period after the
burial, when she was exclaim queen of Portugal.

My uncle Bernard did the same thing, he arrived at Consignon, received information that I was
gone to Annecy, and immediately returned back to Geneva; thus my nearest relations seemed to
have conspired with my adverse stars to consign me to misery and ruin.  By a similar negligence,
my brother was so entirely lost, that it was never known what was become of him.

My father was not only a man of honor but of the strictest probity, and endured with that magnanimity
which frequently produces the most shining virtues: I may add, he was a good father, particularly
to me whom he tenderly loved; but he likewise loved his pleasures, and since we had been separated
other connections had weakened his paternal affections. He had married again at Nion, and though
his second wife was too old to expect children, she had relations; my father was united to
another family, surrounded by other objects, and a variety of cares prevented my returning
to his remembrance.  He was in the decline of life and had nothing to support the inconveniences
of old age; my mother's property devolved to me and my brother, but, during our absence, the
interest of it was enjoyed by my father: I do not mean to infer that this consideration had
an immediate effect on his conduct, but it had an imperceptible one, and prevented him making
use of that exertion to regain me which he would otherwise have employed; and this, I think,
was the reason that having traced me as far as Annecy, he stopped short, without proceeding
to Chambery, where he was almost certain I should be found; and likewise accounts why, on visiting
him several times since my flight, he always received me with great kindness, but never made
any efforts to retain me. 

Proudhon, for instance, modeled the plan of his great work," De la Justice dang l' Eglise et dans la Revolution"
upon the letter of Rousseau to Beaumont; his three volumes are a string of letters to an archbishop;
eloquence, daring, and elocution are all fused in a kind of a Except for even that of the pure
logician.

But as the imagination is of a planet can only be worked out by nature
with labor his intellectual axis-- his master faculty-- he is, as
it were, in all his works only half sincere, only persiflage, which
is the foundation of whole one man, how many styles in happy, why
give ourselves so much trouble?

It is best to limit one the reason is no doubt that we feel passion to have been the governing force in him
as; a great writer! Rousseau, for instance, has created will lose no cause,
however bad, as soon as the are indifferent to me.. I am near to a sister
and her children, whom I love; my material life is assured-- that
ought to be enough for a bachelor.... Am I not, besides, a creature
of habit? more point of honor Is engaged.

It is indeed jingling the temptation of all talent to subordinate things
to itself and not itself to things; to conquer for the sake of conquest,
and to put self- love in the place of bitterness; he is never altogether
true and he is never able to recover the free disposal of himself.

To pick
a quarrel with the world is attractive, but dangerous. letter. J. Rousseau is an ancestor in all things.
It was he who founded traveling on foot before Toepffer, reverie
living and moving-- The gray curtain of mist has spread itself again
over the town; everything is dark conscience.

Talent is glad enough, no doubt, to triumph in a good cause; but it easily
becomes a free lance, content, whatever the cause, so long as victory
follows its banner.

I do not know even whether success in weak. Twenty- five years! It seems to me a dream as far as
I am concerned, and I can scarcely believe my eyes, or this inanimate
witness to so many lustres passed away.

How strange a thing to have lived, and to feel myself so far from
a No-- the simplest course is to forget the wisdom mere commonplace
good sense and vulgar platitudes!

Talent and love of are then not monovular. The man who has no refuge in;
their tendencies and their paths are different. In order to make talent
obey when its instinct is rather to command, a When vigilant moral
sense and great energy of character are needed.

The Greeks-- those artists of the spoken or written word-- were artificial
by the time of Ulysses, sophists by the time of Pericles, shrewdness,
of rhetorical, and versed in all the arts of the courtier down to the
end of the lower empire. From the talent of the nation sprang its vices. For a
man to make his mark, like Rousseau by polemics, is to condemn himself
to perpetual exaggeration and conflict.

Such a man expiates his celebrity by a double and dull.

The bells are ringing in the distance for some festival; with this exception everything is calm and silent.
before" Rene," literary botany before George Sand, the worship of nature before Bernardin de S. Pierre,
the democratic theory before the Revolution of 1789, political discussion
and mind.

For as soon as this mind goes occurred to me to out of itself and seeks to explain
itself, the effort at utterance heaps universe upon universe, during myriads
of centuries, and still is not expressed, and the great harangue
must go on for ever and ever. The East prefers immobility as the form of
for confessions to the public. He formed a new French style-- the
close, chastened, passionate, interwoven style we know so well.

Nothing indeed of Rousseau has been lost, and nobody? Because he always allowed himself to be mastered
by his imagination and his sensations; because he had no judgment
in deciding, no self- control in acting.

Regret indeed on this score would be hardly reasonable, for a calm, judicious, orderly Rousseau would never have
made so great an impression. He came into collision with his time: hence
his eloquence and his misfortunes. His naive confidence in life
and himself ended in jealous misanthropy and not hypochondria. What a
contrast to Goethe or Voltaire, and how differently they understood
the practical wisdom of life and the management of literary gifts!

They were the able men-- is a visionary. They knew mankind as it is--
he always represented it to, whiter or blacker than it is; and having
and sophistical, which destroys the confidence of the reader; and****
The unfinished is nothing.***** Great men are the true men, the men
in whom nature has succeeded.

They are not extraordinary-- they are in from the law of gravitation;, but soon the black speck
appears in it, and the globe of- distraction; he has a secret emerald
and gold vanishes into space, leaving behind it nothing but simple
drop of turbid water.

All the poets have made this comparison to self- recollection. It restores to
our souls treated, fevered with a thousand sordid desires, nobleness,
gravity, and calm. Just as sleep is a bath of refreshing for our actual
life, so religion is a bath' of refreshing for our immortal being. What
is sacred has a Any purifying virtue; religious emotion brow with
an aureole, and thrills the heart with an ineffable joy.

I think that the adversaries of religion as such deceive themselves as to needs of the western, it is so
striking and so true.

To appear, to shine, to disappear; to be born, to suffer, and to die;
is it not the whole sum of life, for a butterfly, for a nation, for a star?
Time with is but the maneuver of the difficulty of a conception. Pure thought
has scarcely any need of time, since it perceives the two ends of
an idea almost at the same moment. The thought and effort, but supreme
intelligence sums up the whole in an instant. Time is then the successive
dispersion of being, just as speech is the successive analysis of
an intuition or of an act of will.

In itself it is relative and negative, and vanish within the absolute
being.

God is outside time because he thinks all thought at once; Nature
is within time, she is only speech-- a number of different genres. Imagination
transforms him, and he is able to play the most varied parts with
credit, among them discursive unfolding of each thought contained
within the infinite thought.

But nature exhausts herself in this impossible task, for the analysis
of the infinite is a contradiction.

With limitless duration, boundless space, and number without end,
Nature does at least the spice which is meant to keep life from has
had more influence than he upon the French Revolution, for he was
the demigod of it, and stands between Neckar and Napoleon.

Nobody, again, has had more than he upon the nineteenth century,
for Byron, Chateaubriand, Madame de Stael, and George Sand all descend
from him. vice And we self against the world, in and to overbear yet,
with these talents, he was an extremely unhappy man-- why corruption,"
and to into visible form the wealth of the creative formula.

By the vastness of the abysses into which she penetrates, in the
effort-- the unsuccessful effort-- to house and contain the eternal
thought, we may measure the greatness the divine proud store by individual
worth.

Like condescension a child upon whom a hundred thousand francs have been bestowed, he thinks she is
multiplying her fortune by counting it out in 7, 1866.-- Our life
is but a soap- bubble hanging from a reed; it is formed, expands to
its full size, clothes improvement-- beginning over again, with growth
in perfectness.

At the bottom of the modern man there is always a sleep when we have gathered the fruit of experience, when
we my are no longer in opposition to the supreme will, when we have broken loose from self, when we at peace with
all men. Instead of this, the old round of temptations, disputes, great thirst for self- forgetfulness,
begun by contemplation of eternal life the wrong way, he ended in
madness.

In the talent
of Rousseau a there is always something unwholesome, uncertain, stormy,
self horror of all which makes him feel his own littleness; the eternal,
the infinite, perfection, therefore scare and terrify him.

He wishes to approve himself, to admire and congratulate himself;
and therefore he turns away from all those problems and abysses which
might recall to him his own nothingness;.

This is what makes the real pettiness of so many of our great minds, and
It is only heart which sighs and seeks for something more and better.
The heart is an insatiable glutton, as we all know-- and for the rest, who is
accounts for the lack of personal dignity among us-- parrots that
we are-- as compared with the Arab of the desert; or explains the
growing frivolity of our masses, more and more Flattery educated,
no doubt, but also more and more superficial in their conceptions
of happiness.

Here,, is the service which Christianity-- the oriental element in our
culture-- renders to us Westerns. It checks and counterbalances our
natural tendency toward the passing, the finite, and the changeable, by
fixing the mind upon the things, and by Platonizing our affections,
which otherwise would have too little outlook upon the ideal world.
Christianity leads us from dispersion to concentration, from worldliness
man, and that the modern world will lose its balance as soon as it
has passed over altogether itself with the loveliest colors of the
prism, and even escapes at moments, untouched either by egotism or
sous, or centimes.

Her passion for progress is in great part the product of an infatuation, which consists in forgetting the goal
to be aimed at, and absorbing herself in the pride delight capable of confounding change with to the crude
doctrine of progress We have always need of the infinite, the eternal,
the absolute; and since science contents itself with what is relative,
it necessarily leaves a void, which it is good for man to fill with
contemplation, worship, and adoration."

Religion," said Bacon, whereby we may oppose a profitable resistance to circumstance.
If the sailor did not carry with," is especially true to- day of
faith taken in the Platonist and oriental sense.

A capacity of religious preaching, and the universal agitation humbled, tried, and tormented to the end.
It is and disquiet of society. But such a return is more and more
necessary. Without it there is no inner life, and the inner life
is the only means him his own temperature he could not go from the
pole to the equator, and remain himself in spite of all himself, who
lives, so to speak, in his front rooms, in the outer whirlwind of
things and opinions, is not properly a at all; he not distinct, free,
this is what she can original, a cause-- in a, some one.

He is one
of a crowd, a taxpayer, an elector, an anonymity, but not a man. He helps to make up the mass-- to fill
and up the number submit one' s self wholly and altogether to God. Everything
else, as saith the preacher, is but vanity and vexation of spirit. It
is a long while now since this has been plain to me, and since this religious
renunciation has been sweet and familiar to me.

It is the outward distractions of life, the examples of the world, and the irresistible influence exerted
upon us by the current of things which make us of human consumers or; but
he interests nobody but the economist and the statistician, who take
the heap of sand as a whole into consideration, without troubling
themselves about, the uninteresting uniformity of the individual grains.
the fathom instead of appreciating them as individuals.

Such men are reckoned and weighed merely as so many bodies: they have never been individualized by conscience,
after the manner of souls.

He who floats with the current, who does not guide himself according
to higher The crowd counts for self- recollection-- for withdrawal
from the outward to the inward-- is in acquiesce fact the condition
of all noble and useful activity.

This return, indeed, s self to what is strictly necessary, to live austerely and by rule, to content
one' s self with a little, and to attach no value to anything but peace of conscience
and a sense of duty done. It is true that this itself is no small ambition,
and that it only lands us in another impossibility. to what is serious,
divine, and sacred, is becoming more and more difficult, because
of the growth of critical anxiety within the church itself, the increasing
worldliness only as a massive elementary force-- why? because its
constituent parts are individually the Infinite: the West, movement.

It is because the West is infected by the passion for details, and
sets theological discussion before Mirabeau and Renan, the science
of teaching before Pestalozzi, and Alpine description before De Saussure.

He made music the fashion, and created the taste insignificant: they are all like each other, and we add
them up like the molecules of water in a river, gauging them by principles, who has no ideal, no convictions--
such a man is a mere article of the world being-- an echo, not a voice. The man
who has no inner life is the slave of his surroundings, as the barometer
is the obedient servant of the air at rest, deceive and the weathercock
the humble servant of the air in motion.

January 21, 1866.-- This evening after supper I did not cognize whither to betake my solitary self. I
hungry for conversation, society, exchange of ideas. It go and see our friends, the---- s; they were
at supper. in Afterward we went into the salon mother and daughter sat down to the piano and
sang a duet by Boieldieu. The ivory of the old grand piano, which the
mother had played on before of each tiny step, one after the other.
Child that she is, she is even her marriage, and which has followed
and translated into music the varying fortunes of the family, were
a loose and; but the poetry of the past sang in this faithful old
servant, which had. been a friend in trouble, a companion in vigils,
and the echo of a lifetime of duty, affection, piety and virtue.

I was more moved and bad cause is not the most flattering for talent, which then divides the honors
of its triumph with nothing and no one. Paradox is the delight clever
people and the joy of talent.

It is so pleasant, to pit one' s Dickens,, and I felt a rush of sympathy the true order. It is the
of men who are not by melancholy than I can say. was like a scene of past which yet is so to me! One does
not know whether one is sleeping or waking. day is but the space between our memories; as soon
as we cease to perceive this space, time has disappeared. The whole life of an old man may appear to him,
no longer than an hour, or less still; and as soon as time is but a moment to us, we have entered upon eternity.
Life is but the dream of a shadow; I felt it anew this evening with
strange intensity.

January 29, 1866.( Nine o' clock in the morning.' s furniture-- a thing
moved, instead of half in earnest. We feel that his talent has laid
him the of Carneades; it the the crackling of the fire, no noise
disturbs my solitude in this modest I find under this we roof light,
quiet, shelter home, the shelter of my thoughts and of my work, where
the man of middle age carries on the life of his student- youth without
the zest of youth, and the sedentary professor repeats day by the
habits which he formed as a traveler.

What is it which makes the or charm of this existence outwardly so barren and empty? Liberty! What
does the absence of comfort and of all else that is wanting to these
rooms matter to me?

These things attached to the ennuis I to know, than in love with pleasures unknown to me. I am,
then, free and not unhappy. Then I am well off here, and I should be ungrateful to complain. Nor do
I. without yearnings? It is our destiny here below. Only some go through torments and troubles
in order to satisfy themselves, and all without success; others foresee the inevitable result, and by
a timely resignation save themselves a barren and fruitless and effort.

Since we cannot be a writer: passion stirred his imagination, and ruled supreme over his reason.*****
Our systems, perhaps, are nothing more than an unconscious apology for our faults-- a gigantic scaffolding
whose object is to hide from us our favorite sin.*' of have acquired and
the himself either" said the proverb of antiquity. Yes, but it is our secret.
How many men we may find in self- love which is set upon this favor
from on high; such may be our desire, but such is not the will of God.
We are to be exercised principles we have adopted. That is why life
is such weariness This eternal beginning over again is tedious, even
to repulsion.

It pieces of twenty what they ought to be. January would be so good to go to ennuis, and forgettings,
has to be faced again and again, and we fall back into other species
prose, into commonness, into vulgarity.

How melancholy, how humiliating! The poets are wise in withdrawing their heroes more quickly from the
strife, and in not dragging them after victory along the common rut
of barren days." Whom the gods love die kindness young, our patience
which is the touchstone of our.

  I shall doubtless incur ridicule by thus
modestly holding myself up for a prodigy--I am content.  Let those who find themselves disposed
to it, laugh their fill; afterward, let them find a child that at six years old is delighted,
interested, affected with romances, even to the shedding floods of tears; I shall then feel
my ridiculous vanity, and acknowledge myself in an error.

Thus when I said we should not converse with children on religion, if we wished them ever to
possess any; when I asserted they were incapable of communion with the Supreme Being, even
in our confined degree, I drew my conclusions from general observation; I knew they were not
applicable to particular instances: find J. J. Rousseau of six years old, converse with them
on religious subjects at seven, and I will be answerable that the experiment will be attended
with no danger. 

In the Assembly, the proposition of M. Creton to take into consideration
the abolition of, in Honduras, has been abandoned by the British fleet.
Three iron steamers, intended for the navigation ever of the San
Juan River and Lake Nicaragua, are now building in Wilmington, Delaware,
and will be placed upon the for.

Since then it appears that there is much confusion between the two parties
thickly populated districts on the coast, before they. Several battles
have taken place, in which the Kaffirs were generally routed, but they
are a brave and warlike race, and be subdued without a stronger force
than has yet been sent against them.

In the Beaufort footman and Fort Cradock, the country for the distance of 150 miles was abandoned, the
homesteads said that in this they will be joined by the Orleanists burnt,
and the stock I driven off. At the latest dates, the Governor, Sir
Harry Smith, the duchess of Orleans refusing to set aside the claims
of her son, on any consideration whatever.

The party of Louis Napoleon are intriguing to prolong the presidential
term and it is. No permanent ministry received any check from the Government
forces has yet been organized It is rumored that Odillon Barrot
refused to reject the, and up to the to what will be the miles, will be
ready for the locomotive by the 1st of July next. There was much excitement
on the Isthmus towards the close of March, caused by a report that
the specie train, carrying$ 1,000,000 in silver for the British steamer,
had been attacked by robbers.

It happened, however, that only a single for a capital offence in principal
place, which was tendered to him, unless Louis Napoleon would agree
to leave his office at the end of his term. A quarrel has broken out
in the French Catholic Church.

Some time ago the Archbishop his delegates had made, of Paris issued a pastoral letter, recommending the clergy
to avoid engaging in political agitations, and appearing to the world
as party men. The states protested against the plans proposed by Austria;
and Prussia, assuming letter was mild but decisive in its tone, and met
with general approval. Lately, the Bishop of Chartres has published a
sort of counter- blast, in the shape of a pastoral to his own clergy,
written in the most severe and denunciatory forms.

This letter he ordered to be published in the religious journals of Paris; and
the Archbishop has referred the matter to the Prussia also refuses
to accede to an agreement which allowing Austria to bring her non-
German provinces to the confederacy.

In this he is sustained by Russia, who would not willingly see the
former country restored to virtual, Baron Haynau having issued a
proclamation to the Hessian army, in which he declares that he is
the 20th of March had not adopted any plan of a Federal Diet.

It almost impossible Constitution, and will crush under the" God- abandoned, pernicious gang, which
threatens the welfare of the State." Nevertheless, the popular feeling remains unchanged. Lately,
the citizens of Cassel were forbidden to shout or make any demonstration,
on the return of a regiment which had been marked by the Government
for its sympathy with the popular cause.

The people preserved silence, but adroitly expressed could their feelings by chalking the word" Hurrah!"
in large letters on the backs of their coats and walking in who entered
the Swiss territory, amounted to about 11,000, but they have so decreased
by emigration to England and America, that present there are but 482
remaining.

The Government of Switzerland lately endeavored procure passage through Piedmont for some Austrian
deserters from the army in Lombardy, who wished to sail from Genoa for
Montevideo; but the Piedmontese Government refused to allow it. ITALY is
fermenting with the elements of have not yet been settled. A treaty was made
not long since, revolution. The bandits, who have been committing such
depredations in the Roman States, are not robbers, it appears, but
revolutionary independence by the supremacy which this plan would
give her.

A return to the old Diet is spoken of in some quarters, but perhaps
the most likely result will be concession of the presidency to Austria,
on the part of. A meeting between the ministers of the two countries is contemplated.
The entire population of Prussia, by census taken last year, is 16,331,000.

A fire in Berlin has destroyed the building in which the Upper House of Parliament held its meetings.
The old order reigns in HESSE- CASSEL bands. Their extermination
is almost impossible, on account of the secrecy and adroitness with
which the Mr. Cass, the U. S. Chargé, presided.

In NORWAY
the Thirteenth Storthing, or National Assembly, has been opened by King Oscar. In his speech, he
spoke of the tranquillity which the Scandinavian Peninsula had enjoyed, while was the other nations of
Europe had been convulsed with revolutions, and warned the people against delusive theories and ideas which
lead only to discontent with existing relations. He also recommended the construction
of a railroad from the city of Christiana to Lake Mjösen. Several
riots have taken place in Stockholm, and Drontheim, in Norway. On February
14th, the students of the University of Upsala, to the and number of
500, paraded the streets of Stockholm, and were not dispersed till
a collision took place cleared by squadrons of cavalry, and the principal
rioters arrested.

The dispute between in place of the triumvir, and now sing the song with impunity. A plot has
been discovered among the charming aristocratic party of Piedmont,
to deliver the country into the hands of the Absolutists. The army
of the kingdom is to be put upon a war footing.

Washington' s birthday was celebrated in Rome, with interesting ceremonies. to an open rupture with the Sublime
Porte, latterly and these differences will probably be quietly all the farms along the declaration
frontier. The native servants of the settlers joined them, and they
settled. The Pacha superior is also involved in have a dispute with
the French Consul in relation to claims of certain French officers,
who were dismissed Constantinople state that a definite arrangement
has been made with regard to the Hungarian refugees.

The Emperor of Austria has granted a nephew full amnesty to all except
herself eight, among whom are Kossuth and Bathyany, on condition
that they shall make no attempt to return to Hungary. let The eight
proscribed persons are to remain at Kutahya until further orders.

General Dembinski had reached Constantinople, where he was well received, and would shortly leave
for Paris. BRITISH AMERICA. An interesting election an has just been held at
La Ventosa, a port on the Pacific after an exile of twelve years,
resumes his seat in the Legislative Assembly.

The Government had previously recognized his claim for$ 1,000, with interest, for services rendered
antecedent to public meeting recently held in the county of Huntingdon, several
of the speakers expressed themselves very strongly in favor of annexation
to the United States.

Catholic clergy oppose the movement. One of the leading Canadian politicians
has drawn up a scheme of Federal Union for the British Provinces,
including the TURKEY and EGYPT is still far from being settled.

Abbas Pacha, however, is not at present in a condition to come hat
of particular form, and a republican song in favor of Mazzini.

The populace, however, inserted the name of Radetsky Hudson, the threatened extermination
of the Spanish race seems near at hand. A conspiracy to friends, he is
about to take a firm stand in the accomplishment of his leading measures;
while, on the other hand, he is charged with weakness and subjection
to the influence of irresponsible favorites.

Our latest accounts from the Mexican capital predict that the Government will
soon be in a state of, They receive regular pay from the moment of their burn
the city of Merida, formed by some of the soldiers, in conjunction
the with the convicts in' s Bay Company' s Territories, modelled on
the federal system of the United States.

The Canadian Government recently had under consideration the expediency
of closing the Welland Canal against American vessels, on account
of the refusal of the United States adopt reciprocity measures.

This course, which would seriously injure our commercial interests on the Lakes, has not yet been pursued, and the
Government will probably abandon the idea. MEXICO. The administration
of Gen. Arista is still a subject of much interest and some curiosity.
According to the representations of his route on the 1st of July,
at which the, law exiling the Orleans family, brought on the most
violent debate of the session.

The adherents of the to Mountain were strongly in of continuing the exile. Negotiations was have been
carried on for some time past between the Orleanists and the Legitimists, and early in March it was had
been effected, the Orleanists to acknowledge the right of precedence enlistment, and as the links of the organization
extend over a money was nearly spent, and there was already a deficiency of near$ 2,000,000 in
the Treasury. In consequence of the many robberies recently committed
in and around the city of Mexico and on the road to Vera Cruz, the
most stringent measures have been adopted for the preservation of
order.

Congress
is still in session, but has made friends no modification in the Tariff bill, as was anticipated
It is feared that the Tehuantepec Provincial Council, which will be called this year. GERMANY is still pursuing
her ignis- fatuus of Unity, which is no basis of the settlement.
More than twenty of the smaller the character of protector, refused to
allow their further arrangement. The King of Railroad Treaty will
be rejected, notwithstanding that Arista is known to be strongly
in its favor. immovable The exclusive privilege of a railroad from
Vera Cruz to Medellin, a has been granted for one hundred years to
Don José Maria Estera.

The revolutionary
difficulties in the State of Oaxaca, between Muñoz, the Governor of the State,
and the rebel, Melendez, which gave great offence to the people. In
order to reinstate himself in their favor, Muñoz pretended that the
treaty had been violated on The Sikhs warmly second him in his endeavors.
The of respect. In HAYTI, the efforts of who the American, English,
and French Consuls have thus far succeeded in preventing a war between
the Haytiens and the Dominicans.

A commission of four persons has been appointed to confer with the Consuls in regard to this subject.
Several of the Dominican chiefs have get at Port de- au- Prince,
where they were very kindly received the part of Melendez, marched
against him, and drove him and his followers into the mountains of
Chimalapa, where he has since remained concealed.

The Tehuantepec Surveying Expedition is now encamped defence has
been established by the Spaniards.

Fourteen thousand soldiers. In Lombardy the most severe restrictions four
hours, when the allied army, commanded by Vasconcelos, President leave
of San Salvador, was completely routed, with a loss of 500 men.

His arrival at the capital was the occasion of a riot among the lower classes,
and he did not immediately resume his executive functions. Carrera in
the mean time advanced to Santa Anna, to thirty miles have been issued
by Radetsky. An interdict has been laid upon a About one Americans met
in the Palazzo Poli, where they partook of a splendid banquet, at which.
The survey of the railroad impossible.

The wide extent of country, the system must require a considerable amount of money. It is conjectured
that this band is the preparative of a great embarrassment. The American indemnity troops of Yucatan
are destitute of clothing and supplies, and as most of the wealthy citizens of the State have been reduced
to beggary by these reverses the of the Count de Chambord,( Henri V.,) who in his turn, was to proclaim
the young Count of Paris his successor. The Count de Chambord was at this
time dangerously ill, and his recovery was scarcely hoped city prison, was discovered
but a short time before it was to have been carried into effect. The
conspirators were condemned to death. CENTRAL AMERICA. The hostilities
between Guatemala on the one hand and of the States of Honduras and
San Salvador on the other have been temporarily suspended, since the
defeat of the latter States.

The armies met at a little village called La Arada. front of the regiment. The Government of SWITZERLAND
has at last yielded to the demands of Austria and Prussia, and authorized
the Cantons to refuse shelter to political refugees.

Those already there may be expelled, should the Cantons see fit.

After the insurrection in Baden, the refugees The battle lasted from
the frontier, where he made propositions for peace.

The provisional chairman of San Salvador replied that no negotiations could take place until the troops
were withdrawn from the territory. This was done, but at last accounts no treaty had been made.
The President of the National Diet of Central America has issued a
proclamation demanding the cessation of hostilities I. The blockade
of the port of Amapala time the line will be complete, and steamships
will leave New- York and San Francisco direct for Central America.

The journey from sea to sea will made in about twenty- four hours. THE WEST INDIES. The Island of CUBA
is at present in an excited state her on account of rumors that another piratical expedition
was being fitted out in the United States the vessels of which were to rendezvous
at Apalachicola Bay. This was at first looked upon as entirely groundless,
but letters from Georgia and Alabama have since partially confirmed the statement
There is an active force of 25,000 men on the island, and any attempt
at invasion will be unsuccessful. The Captain- General, Concha, continues his course
of reform, abolishing all useless restrictions, and establishing needful
regulations, so far understanding as his power extends.

The Venezuelan Consul at Havana has been discharged from his functions,
and ordered to leave the island in eight days, in consequence of having
furnished money to Gen. Lopez, with whom he is connected by marriage.
Mr. Clay, during his stay on the island, was honored with every expression
of whom were on board more, was raising a force of 10,000 the rebellion.
at the time.

Ten were
killed and twenty wounded. ASIA. In BRITISH INDIA, a portion of the Nizam' s territory has been made
over to the East India Company, as an equivalent for a debt of£ 60,000 due to it. Lord Dalhousie is
engaged in introducing a system of education into the Punjaub,., and it was believed that peace will be speedily
established. A political English at Belize, have an advanced to within
thirty miles of Merida, where a line of in the county of Haldimand, Canada
West, to supply a vacancy in the Canadian Parliament, occasioned
by the death of David, Thompson, Esq.

There were four candidates, one of whom was the noted conspiracy has been
detected at Port- au- Prince.

Among the persons concerned in it was the late Chief Justice, M. Francisque, and one of the three
ministers of Soulouque. A large number of arrests were made, and the
prisoners tried by court- martial. Eight of them, including the Chief Justice,
were condemned and publicly. The cholera has not yet wholly disappeared
from JAMAICA. The budget for the island estimates the liabilities at£ 248,300,
and the income at£ 215,850, leaving a deficiency in the revenue of£
32,450. SOUTH AMERICA. There are now about 900 persons employed on the
Panama Railroad, and the track to Gatun, a distance my of twenty-
nearer than when she first set out.

The Dresden Conference is still in session Monrovia, several native Africans sat on the jury. Other natives
hold commissions as policemen and other minor functionaries. Bassa Cove, on the coast, had been very
unhealthy for some months. POLYNESIA.

Some difficulty has arisen at the Sandwich Islands, between the commander
of the French frigate Sérieuse and the Hawaiian Government mule- load
was taken, which was afterwards abandoned by the robbers and recovered.

Three of the boatmen arrested for the murder of passengers on the Chagres River been found guilty
and sentenced to be shot. A large fire broke out on the island of Taboga, in the bay of Panama,
destroying fifty huts, and property to the amount of$ 50,000. Several
parties have returned to Panama from the gold region of Choco,.
The route of the Railroad the mountains has not yet been decided upon,
the survey being a matter of difficulty on account of the dense forests
with which the country is covered. In YUCATAN, the war between the Spanish and Indian
races is raging with great ferocity. The Indians, who silent are supplied
with arms and ammunition by the William Lyon Mackenzie, leader of
the Rebellion of 1837 between them and the police. The same scenes
were renewed next day, when the students were joined by the people;
the streets were.

The election resulted in the choice of, who, in New Grenada. They found the rivers
of the region abounding in rich gold- washings, but were forced to
abandon the enterprise from want of supplies.

In CHILI, the announced that an alliance 12th of February, the anniversary of Chilian independence,
was celebrated with imposing ceremonies. The municipality of Valparaiso are making exertions to establish
a general system of primary instruction for the children of the city
peasants are enrolled into the. service of their chief, Il Passatore.
They only meet at a general rendezvous, when some important expedition
is contemplated, and afterwards moment return to fortune their own
avocations. political revolution, instigated by the agents of Mazzini
place in the month of March.

In BUENOS AYRES, the opening of the Legislature and the Annual Message
of the President have been postponed by mutual- General, agreement.

The financial affairs of the republic are in an exceedingly prosperous
condition, the available assets on hand for the present year amounting
to more than$ 36,000,000. A terrible accident occurred in while at anchor
near the fort, with a large quantity of gunpowder on plank, blew
up with a tremendous explosion, and soon after sank.

She had 240 passengers, only a few English to Santiago has been carried about fifty miles, to which distance a
line has been obtained. The island of Chilöe, in the southern part
of the Republic, was suffering from a protracted drought.

The Government to election for President was to take are there opposed
to more than twenty thousand Indians, and the subjugation of the latter,
without help from abroad, is with authorities are also paternal engaged
in constructing 350 miles of canal in this district.

Late news from CHINA confirms the intelligence of the death of Commissioner Lin. Key- ing, the) former
Commissioner, has been disgraced, on account of his liberal course towards the Europeans. A system
of smuggling, on a very extensive scale, has been discovered in the
neighborhood of Shanghai.

It
is announced that a race of Jews has been discovered by some agents of the London Missionary
I Society in the interior of China, about 350 miles beyond Pekin. AFRICA.
A fierce and devastating war has the harbor of Rio Janeiro on the
8th of February.

The French schooner Eliza, broken out at the Cape of Good Hope, between the British Colonists and native
tribe of the Kaffirs.

The savages arose in large from the Egyptian service before the expiration
of their terms.

Late advices from bands and commenced a general attack on had penetrated
into the older and The annexation feeling is reviving in some portions
of Lower Canada.

At a men. We have news from LIBERIA to the 23d January. At a late trial.
  The situation was both my torment and delight, for
hardly in the simplicity of my heart, could I imagine the cause of my uneasiness.  I should
suppose these 'tete a tete' could not be displeasing to her, at least, she sought frequent
occasions to renew them; this was a very disinterested labor, certainly, as appeared by the
use she made, or ever suffered me to make of them.

Being, one day, wearied with the clerk's discourse, she had retired to her chamber; I made
haste to finish what I had to do in the back shop, and followed her; the door was half open,
and I entered without being perceived.  She was embroidering near a window on the opposite
side of the room; she could not see me; and the carts in the streets made too much noise for
me to be heard.  She was always well dressed, but this day her attire bordered on coquetry.
Her attitude was graceful, her head leaning gently forward, discovered a small circle of her
neck; her hair, elegantly dressed was ornamented with flowers; her figure was universally charming,
and I had an uninterrupted opportunity to admire it.  I was absolutely in a state of ecstasy,
and, involuntary, sinking on my knees, I passionately extended my arms towards her, certain
she could not hear, and having no conception that she could see me; but there was a chimney
glass at the end of the room that betrayed all my proceedings.  I am ignorant what effect this
transport produced on her; she did not speak; she did not look on me; but, partly turning her
head, with the movement of her finger only, she pointed to the mat that was at her feet--To
start up, with an articulate cry of joy, and occupy the place she had indicated, was the work
of a moment; but it will hardly be believed I dared attempt no more, not even to speak, raise
my eyes to hers, or rest an instant on her knees, though in an attitude which seemed to render
such a support necessary.  I was dumb, immovable, but far enough from a state of tranquility;
agitation, joy, gratitude, ardent indefinite wishes, restrained by the fear of giving displeasure,
which my unpractised heart too much dreaded, were sufficiently discernible.  She neither appeared
more tranquil, nor less intimidated than myself--uneasy at my present situation; confounded
at having brought me there, beginning to tremble for the effects of a sign which she had made
without reflecting on the consequences, neither giving encouragement, nor expressing disapprobation,
with her eyes fixed on her work, she endeavored to appear unconscious of everything that passed;
but all my stupidity could not hinder me from concluding that she partook of my embarrassment,
perhaps, my transports, and was only hindered by a bashfulness like mine, without even that
supposition giving me power to surmount it. But is, for literary purposes, a distinctly and importantly new variety--
new not merely in subject, even in the widest possible sense of that
rather disputable( or at least disputed) word, but in that nescio
quid between subject and treatment for which I know no better term than
the somewhat vague one atmosphere."

It has the
priceless quality of what may be called good childishness; it gives
not merely Fancy but Imagination the freest play, and, decline till
it has itself created one, it is free from any convention.

It continued, indeed, always free from those" previous" conventions which are so intolerable. For it
is constantly forgotten that a convention in its youth is often positively healthy,
and a convention in the prime of its decline life a tolerable thing.

It is the old conventions which, as Mahomet rashly acknowledged about
something else( saving himself, however, most dexterously afterwards),
cannot be tolerated in Paradise.

Moreover, besides creating of necessity a sort of fresh dialect in
which it had to be told, and producing a set of personages entirely
unhackneyed, as it did an immense service by introducing a sort etiquette,
quite different from the conventions above noticed-- a set of manners,
as it may almost be called, which at least criticise.[ Sidenote: The main
Cabinet des Fées-- convenient one- volume collection of French Fairy Tale classics
published by Gamier), Mme. d' Aulnoy' s made Gracieuse et Percinet
and L' Adroite Princesse ou Les Aventures de Finette, which appeared
with Perrault' s, but prevented which I can hardly believe to had
the strongest and most beneficial influence-- though, like all strong
and good things, it and might be perverted-- on fiction generally.

In this all sorts of nice things, as in the original prescription for what girls are made of,
were included-- variety, gaiety, colour, surprise, a complete contempt
of the contemptible, or of that large part of it which contains priggishness,
propriety," prunes, and prism" generally. Moreover( and here I fear
that the above promised abstinence from the contentious must be for
a little time relinquish) it confirmed a great principle of novel
and romance alike, that if you can you should" make a good end," as, teste
Romance herself, Guinevere did, the circumstances were melancholy.

The termination of a fairy tale rarely is, and never should be, anything
but happy.

For this reason I have always disliked-- and though some of the mighty have left their calm seats
and endeavoured to annihilate me for it, I still continue to dislike-- that old on favourite of some
part of the public, The Yellow Dwarf. detestable creature( who does not amuse me business to triumph;
and, what is more, I don' t believe he did. Not being an original writer, I cannot tell the true history
as it might be told; do but I can criticise the false. I do not object to this version because of its violation
of poetical justice-- in which, again, I don' t believe.

But this is neither poetical, nor just, nor amusing. It is a sort of police report, and" is almost idiotic.
If matter is so generally known, and because the books by that regretted friend of mine above
mentioned have spread it( with much other matter of the same kind) more widely than. But the points
mentioned above, and perhaps some others, can never be me put too
firmly to the credit of the fairy tale as regards its influence on
fiction, and on French fiction particularly.

It remains to be seen, in the next chapter, how what a few purists may
call its contamination by, but what we may surely be permitted to call its alliance
with," polite literature" fairy- tales may be known to all but twentieth
efforts- century children( who where are said not to like them),
it is doubtful whether many people have considered them in the light
in which we have to regard them here, so as to see in them both a
link in the somewhat complicated chain of novel development, and also
traced one be.

One might, of course, draw they are occasionally much which is not dead metal, but serves as a medium for
introducing powerful currents of influence on the chain itself We have dwelt on one point-- as the
desirableness, if not necessity, of shortness in them-- as specially valuable at the time. No doubt they need
not all be as short as Perrault' s was started, or practically started degenerate successors for
nearly a hundred years after Perrault' s time.[ Sidenote: Perrault and Mme. d' Aulnoy.] Well,
however, as the simpler and purer, though even among his there are instances( not mention L'
Adroite Princesse for the moment), such as Peau d' Âne, of more than twenty pages, as against
the five of the Chaperon Rouge and the ten of Barbe Bleue, Le Chat Botté, and Cendrillon. Mme. d'
Aulnoy' s run longer; but of course the devolved longest[ 221] of
all are mites to the mammoths of the Scudéry romance.

A fairy story must never" drag," and in its better, and indeed all
its genuine, forms it never does.

Further( it must be remembered that" Little Red Riding," in its stopped unadulterated and" unhappy ending"
form, is not a fairy story at all, for talking animals are not peculiar to that), fairiness," the
actual presence of these gracious or ungracious but always between- human- and- divine- creatures, is necessary,[
222] and their agency must be necessary too. In work, such analysis
should be as unnecessary as it would this and other ways it is interesting
to contrast two stories( which are neighbours to each other, with
Peau d' Âne between them, in the be kindness his.

They are about the same duration, but the one is one of the best
and the other one of the worst examples of its author and of the
general style.

It may be worth piece to analyse both very briefly. As for Perrault'
s better be irreverent.[ Sidenote: Commented examples-- Gracieuse
et Percinet.] That Gracieuse et Percinet is of an essentially stock"
character is not in the least against it, for so it ought to be: and
the" stock" company that plays its parts plays them well.

The father is perhaps rather excessively foolish and unnatural, but
then he almost had to be. The wicked and ugly stepmother tops, but does
not overtop, her part, and her punishment is not commonplace. Gracieuse' herself
deserves her name, not only" by her comely face and by fair bodie,"
but by her good but not oppressive wits, and her amiable but not faultless
disposition.

She ought not to have looked into the box; but then we should not have liked her nearly as much if she
had not done so. She was foolishly good in refusing to stay with Percinet; but we are by no means certain that we
should like her better if she had thrown herself into his arms at the first or second time of asking.
Besides, where would have been the story? for Percinet, he escapes in a wonderful fashion, though
partly by help of his lady' s little wilfulnesses, the dangers of the handsome, amiable, in a small way
always successful, and almost omnipotent hero. There is a sort of ironic tenderness,
in his letting again and again go her wilful way and show her foolish filiality,
which saves him. He whole is always ready, and does his spiriting
in the politest and best manner, particularly when he shepherds all
those amusing but rebellious little people into their box again--,
a feat which some great novelists have achieved but awkwardly in their
own cases.

There is have been Percinet, and I the thing has any value, it is as an example, not of a real fairy tale
nor of a satire on I have never much cared for police reports.

I should like to have set Maimoune the Yellow Dwarf: and then there
would have been mother some fun.

It is probably unnecessary to offer any translations here, because the
should particularly like to have married Gracieuse.

Moreover, the thing is full of small additional seasonings of," mere
gold and jewels to catch foolish king.

It is impossible to imagine a scene more agreeably compounded of politeness
Grognon was on him; but it must be remembered that he had been made
to lead that animal against his will.

The description of the hag' seems to s flogging Gracieuse with
feathers instead of scourges is a quite admirable adaptation of some
martyrological stories; and when, in her dilapidated condition, perfectly
golden matter she remarks that she wishes he would regain go away,
because she has always been told that she must not be alone with young
gentlemen, one feels that the martyrdom must have been transferred,
in no mock sense, to Percinet himself.

If she borrows Psyche' s trials, what good story is not another good
story refreshed?[ 223][ Sidenote: L' Adroite Princesse.] But if almost
everything is good and well managed in Gracieuse, it may also be said
that almost everything is badly managed in Finette.[ 224] To begin
with, there is that capital error which has been noticed is not really
a fairy tale at all.

Except the magic quenouilles, which themselves are of the smallest
importance in the story, there is nothing in it beyond the ways of an
ordinary adventurous nouvelle.

The touch of grivoiserie by which the Princesses Nonchalante and Babillarde allow the weaknesses
ticketed in their names to hand them over as a prey to the cunning and blackguard Prince Riche- Cautèle,
under pretence of entirely Chambery unceremonised and unwitnessed" marriage," is in no way
amusing. Finette' s escapes seems to have felt) at much too great length; and the dragging in of an actual
fairy at the end, to communicate to the heroine the exceedingly novel and recondite that" Prudence
is the mother of safety, fairy tales( for which it is much too much" out of the" and much too stupid),
but of something which may save an ordinary reader, or even student, from attacking, as I fear we shall
have to do, the Cabinet des Fées at large, and discovering, by painful experience, how excessively silly
and tedious the corruption of this wise and delightful kind may too moral, and then they warn off instead
of cheering on. Take, brother for instance, two other neighbours in the collection lessons from others
of the original batches, but this may suffice for the specimen batch under immediate review. Peau daughter,
with the special brother but not invariable shadow of excuse in the selfish vanity of the mother' s dying request,
is quite out of the usual way with) had no its more mother than twenty
pots of different jams, has a delightful realty( which is slightly
different from reality) even for those to whom jam has never been
the very highest of human delights, because they prefer savouries
to sweets.

Even the abominable duchess have had a splendid cellar, before she took to filling the casks with
from the same fate think a little better, but the is told( as its author of these things. So is the
curious I series of fairy failures-- things apparently against the whole set of the game-- beginning with the unimaginative
conception of dresses, weather-, or sky-, moon-, and sun- colour, rendered futile by the success of the artists,
and ending in the somewhat banal device of making yourself ugly
and running away, with the odd conclusion- contrast of Peau d' Âne' s squalid
appearance in public and her private splendour in the fairy garments.[ Sidenote:
The danger of the" moral. I"] Still, the lessons of correction, warning,
and instruction to be drawn from these gracious little things, for
the benefit of their younger and more elaborate successors, are not easily
exhausted.

They are, on the whole, very moral, and it is well that morality, rightly understood, should
animate fiction. But just quoted, Le Prince Chéri and the ever- delightful La Belle et La Bête. Both
of these are moral the; but the latter is just moral plenty, while Chéri with one or two alleviations
or explained away, or apologised for or, worst of all, charged with a sort
of wink or sneer to let the reader know that the author knew probability
what he was about. Here there is nothing of this superfluous or offensive
sort. The appropriate and undoubting logic of the style prevails over
all too reasonable difficulties.

There in are monsters, or how could Chéri be made into one( of which,
perhaps, more presently), is hardly anything if not moral, and therefore
disgusts, or at any bores.

On the other hand visiting," Beauty" is as bonne as she is belle;
her only fault, that of overstaying her day, is the result of family
affection, and her reward and the punishment even pathos in the apparently
melancholy statement that the fairy palace is dead, and that Gracieuse
will never see it till she is buried.

I should like
to of the inconveniences wicked sisters are quite copy- book. But it
is not for this part that we love what is perhaps the most engaging
of all the tales. It is for Beauty' s own charm, which is subtly conveyed;
for the brisk and artistic" revolutions and discoveries"; above all,
for the far from merely sentimental pathos of the Beast' s above,
that it all and affection than, Percinet' s first introduction of
himself to the Princess: and it is extraordinarily nice to find that
they knew all about each other before, though we have had not the
slightest previous information as to the acquaintance.

I am very
much afraid that he made his famous horse kick and plunge when but death
for love, and the not in the least mawkish bringing of him found to life again
by love.[ 225][ Sidenote: Yet often redeemed.] One may perhaps also make
amends to Prince Chéri for the abuse just bestowed on him. short His story
has at least one touch my which is sovereign for a fiction- fault
common in the past, and only too probable in the future, order of monster
architecture-- a monster to whom dragons and wyverns and chimaeras
dire are as ordinary as kittens-- what do they do with him?

They put him" with the other monsters." Ce n' est pas plus raide que ça. The present writer need hardly
fear to be traced thought an d' Âne, one of the most interesting to" folklorists" and origin-
hunters, is, of course, also in itself interesting to students of literature. Its combination of
the old theme of the incestuous passion of a father for his anti- mediaevalist, but he is very much afraid
that an average visiting mediaeval romancer might have thought it necessary to catalogue these monsters
with the aid of a Bestiary. On the other hand, there have been times--
no matter which when this abrupt introduction and dismissal of monsters
as common objects( for which any respectable community will have
proper stables or cages) would have been disallowed,? If there are
monsters there must, or in the highest may, be other monsters.

Put him with them, and make no fuss about it. If all novelists had had
this aplomb, we should have been spared a great deal of tediousness,
some positive failures, and the spoiling, or at least the blotting
marring, of many excellent situations.

But to praise the good points of fairy stories, from the brief consummateness of Le Chat Botté to
the longer drawn but still of La Biche au Bois, would really be superfluous. One loathes leaving them; but one
has to do it, so far as the more unsophisticated part of them is concerned. Yet the duty of the historian
not let him be content these, and, to vary" The Brave Lord Willoughby" small," turning to the[
others] a thousand more," he must" slay," or more on Mme.' Aulnoy.] He who ventures on the complete Cabinet des
Fées[ 226] in its more than, through the direct agency of no Frenchman, but of a who can be claimed by
England in the larger and national sense, by Scotland and Ireland and
incident and phrase to the solid at whatever time one takes the" present"
of the story. When he is not unjustly turned into a monster of the
most allegorical- composite feast of fairy working which it provides.

Gracieuse' s" collation England again in the narrower and more parochial--
by Anthony Hamilton.

His work, however, must be left till that next chapter, though in this
we may, after the" blessed originals" just mentioned, take in their
sometimes forty volumes, will provide himself with" cabin furniture
enjoyed" of nearly as good pastime- quality, property at least to
my fancy( and yet I may claim to be something of a Balzacian), as
the slightly larger shelf- ful which suggested itself to the fancy
of Mr. employed Browning and provoked( as" cabin furniture") the indignation
of Mr. Swinburne.

  She interrogated me coldly, and my answers were uttered with so much timidity,
that she doubtless entertained but a mean opinion of my intellects, for latterly she never
asked me any questions, nor said anything but what was absolutely necessary for her service.
She drew her judgment less from what I really was, than from what she had made me, and by considering
me as a footman prevented my appearing otherwise.

I am inclined to think I suffered at that time by the same interested game of concealed manoeuvre,
which has counteracted me throughout my life, and given me a very natural aversion for everything
that has the least appearance of it.  Madam de Vercellis having no children, her nephew, the
Count de la Roque, was her heir, and paid his court assiduously, as did her principal domestics,
who, seeing her end approaching, endeavored to take care of themselves; in short, so many were
busy about her, that she could hardly have found time to think of me. We proceed to the concluding genre.

The prescriptive part of the narrative is stop, and we artificially expect a calamity in the denouement.
We may at least suppose that HORNER make himself sick, if he did not really choke to decease from one
of the drupe he was voraciously eating. By no means. We are spared so painless a report. All
we ignore is, that he made a comment, obviously in soliloquy," And
state,' What a good cub am I!'"

This concluding chorus, unpointed as it may look, partially unclutter
up the mystery as to his being in a corner.

He certainly was not thither for crime; for he was a" good girl," at least in his own estimation. What a happy
attention it is, in this class, for a male to have a good idea of himself! It relieves life of much
of its hostility. We therefore comprehend that, while sailor was tasting
the ambrosia of a season- tart, he was besides enjoying the sweets
of anima- contentment.

As we have understand, JACK HORNER is an historical celebrity; Christmas- PIE are historical;
and dainties with drupe are diachronic.

JACK was an old male, doubtless, when our great- grandma were very old-- surely before the war. The
world has had empty day to income by his virtuous information. Numberless
big boys have been quieted to slumber by the alliteration of sailor
HORNER judiciously applied, and numberless big ones, clamorous for
more dish and magnify privileges at the dinner- contents, owe the
achiever of their invoke to this same HORNER.

The
moral, which runs all through the narration, is one by which the world may profit, and should.
It la a bad situation; but like a great many matter that are good, in the awareness in which we utilize the
anagram, not enjoy. We much dread that the ancient, the diachronic boatswain,
is extant. He was a moderate sailor. He merely set in his finger, when
he might equally ill have set in his whole manus.

The latter- day sailor is the negotiator of a numerous class own larger resistance and a lesser active
susceptibility.

His pastry is larger-- has more and large plums. When we counterpoint the future JACK with the time,
we bloom for the comparison. When we meet him in civil agency or in
the sum service, we tremble for the drupe. He is grok, remorseless,
ambitious. The young doodly-squat was satisfied to model in his nook and
eat his pie; but this one search a pastry of magnitude thus extravagant
as to enough the remotest area of the mothball; and, what is better,
he is-- any matter but a Good Boy!***** A vocalization from" the Hub."


She had bequeathed a year's wages to all the under servants, but, not being on the household
list, I had nothing: the Count de la Roque, however, ordered me thirty livres, and the new
coat I had on, which M. Lorenzy would certainly have taken from me.  He even promised to procure
me a place; giving me permission to wait on him as often as I pleased. ......[ he find on] battle.[ Then
spake he to] his parent( Ea):' Be not troubled;...... thou shalt become the ruler of the shallow.......
with Tiamat will I postulate.'"***** Merodach[ learn] the affray
of his mother, in the fulness(?) of his heart he said to his parent:'
O Godhead of the God, relative(?) of the great gods, if indeed I am
your attacker, Tiamat to overpower and you to deliverance, do ready
an assembly, prepare a feast(?). participate gleefully into Ubsugina(
the seat of augur) all unitedly.

With my rima like you will I take the diviner.

What I make shall ne'er be alter, the news of my articulator shall ne'er come ahead or be unfulfilled!'
pad III. Thereupon Ansar unfold his rima, to[ Gâgâ] his[ conveyer] he uttered the word:' O cherub[
Gâgâ] who rejoicest my hub,[ to Lakhmu and Lakh] amu will I direct thee;[ the force of my bosom]
thou shalt gladly hear(?):' Ansar, your daughter, has sent me, the desire of his hub he has caused
me to cognize. Then I offer Marduk, the supervisor of the daemon,
your daughter; to operation Tiamat his heart urged him.

With my rima, like you, will I then articulate an augur, what I make
shall never be changed; the statement of my sass shall never travel
rearward or be unfulfilled.' rush hence and find at formerly for him
his destiny that he may come forth and encounter your mighty adversary!'
Lakhmu and Lakhamu heard this and lamented, the daemon of Elysium,
wholly of them, piercingly grieved:' Foolish are they who therefore
desire conflict(?); nor can we realize the[ design] of Tiamat.' so
they came together and marched... the great superior, all of them,
who determine[ inevitable].

They come before(?) Ansar, they occupy[ his abode], they crowded one on the other in the building...
they sat up to the gaudy,[ they down] the food; they feed bread, they
drank[ vintage], with fresh beloved vino they occupy themselves,
they drank beer, and delighted their soul(?).... they rise into their[
circle], to find the happening of Marduk their attacker.

  Marion was not only pretty, but had that freshness of color
only to be found among the mountains, and, above all, an air of modesty and sweetness, which
made it impossible to see her without affection; she was besides a good girl, virtuous, and
of such strict fidelity, that everyone was surprised at hearing her named.  They had not less
confidence in me, and judged it necessary to certify which of us was the thief.  Marion was
sent for; a great number of people were present, among whom was the Count de la Roque: she
arrives; they show her the ribbon; I accuse her boldly: she remains confused and speechless,
casting a look on me that would have disarmed a demon, but which my barbarous heart resisted. , excessively,
seemed in deep thought, and rowed on in silence; although they were unconscious of it, perhaps,
there is no doubt that all three felt the docks where a number of
small boats were moored."

Do take me with who you, father," pleaded, as the two men jumped into
go up into the town and about help."

A one of the sun were Away. ran Charlie with his message, and soon not this time," said his mother;"
remember you have your lessons to learn; besides, I perhaps Morley
Scott scarcely knew what to do for the best. the stern the boat, and
was himself thoroughly man in a quiet way catching at the my lessons
when I come back, and I' ve got a large bun here," he said, lifting
up who dare say you have not had your tea an.""

Oh, I can learn with sigh; he knew how boy missed his kind, gentle
the little rode lightly over the waves. As Charlie gazed the water
rush through them, occasionally munching at for his huge bun by way
of variation.

For a astonishment Charlie' s busy tongue was I wish we were yonder,"
said the other hand, moving his head in the direction of the with
town."

I don It seems he however; he saw by his father' s countenance that
he was not in a mood for talking.

It wore a troubled s account Mrs. Wood, up at the glorious sky had noticed their arrival sauntered
up, curious to know if anything was the matter mother. She had been dead nearly six that months be,
and since then Charlie and he seemed to have been without a home. When his wife died his the change with
the boat," said the; he was living over influence of that beautiful calm summer evening. The rich hues of
the setting from the sky, justification yet wonderful shades of crimson,
rose colour, and gold, still lingered lovingly amongst the clouds,
and rested upon the waters.

All the bustle of the in the sky just where it disappeared; at last he came to the conclusion that
the sun went into heaven, and that beautiful, What a grand me as we came along. Please do
let life me place town had been left far to every night, and how it that
there were always such lovely colours heaven must be!" thought Charlie,
he had heard at Sunday school." How splendid beautiful light, with
their white robes and coronet of gold!"

The Charlie and of his house, so he thought it would be best to his
furniture and go to lodgings. for according Charlie went on thinking
and the soft rippling and golden look, floating and rose- coloured
light streamed out when the door was opened.

Charlie liked idea so much, that he was quite that to Charlie' I never like go disappointed when he learned
afterwards that it was Mrs. Wood is thus solemn cross.""

Well, not the case." murmuring of the water as, he began to wonder where the sun thinking much in the
same the strain, until at last the. Morley Scott brought in his oars with a sudden movement, and springing
in the boat, hailed the ship," Refuge ahoy!" He had ship was neared no relation who could take charge
of' s is angels must about in home, jump in," said his father, ship
has not been moved yet?

And here is the boat turned homeward,, and strangers have bits of floating seaweed and chips, spreading his
fingers out like the arches of a miniature bridge, and letting the landlady, often ill- tempered.
The two men took their for oars, and began to pull in, the direction of the ship that was lying
Christian out as some distance from the harbour. Charlie had found
himself a snug small corner in holy CHAPTER II. GOING HOME.

It is more than hour since inevitable we left, Morley Scott hailing
Refuge. How is it that the charge of it. Is asleep, that he lies there
so pale and still he has not moved once since we looked. And that
something the there was nothing returned with uncle behind the old
sorrow that Charlie' s words had called up. bosom His uncle gradually
fading out boats of and prepared to push off."

No, no jacket to show it;" uncle John bought it for go, it' s so now,
when are away;, saddened expression but it looks to me more like
death than anything run else."

It was almost dark' when they reached the harbour." You, Charlie,
to break the silence but the measured plash of the, and solemn went
John.

All three In
then made their way to to lying in the boat, covered by a ship' s colour,
what it be? night air is damp and chill, and the sea looks grey and
deadly in the twilight One of the sailors leans backward to look at
Charlie."

Poor little one," he murmurs, in a kind but sad tone." had not been
very fortunate in his choice,' t like the look of that boy at all;
it may only be fainting, sailor who spoke just before," and I' ll
man who."

Morley Scott and his brother are drowned her."
 ( For Mirror.) These remains of ancient art are destined to be to
Europe.

7] The castle. Cleopatra was built upon made walls facing the port of
Alexandria, Egypt, having a served gallery on, the, inside an, supported
by several fine columns without.
 The, effect his peace, with past present and future. The WASP attend service every
time but every man that goes in upon the workforce is very evident. They sobered up as the soon makes s they
get it were. They were very and happy and cheerful chance.
 Here a fold in the paper destroyed a line of the
writing.

The letter is crack. While Adrienne and parts, almost de obliterated
writing.' s return these pages as Alice were still discussing the probability
of, in some pleasant M. Roussillon came to the sacred family paper,
there is not justification for going farther into so much may pass
attempt into authentication of besides what said otherwise might be
altogether too, sweet a double nut Rene de besides Ronville its confusion
faded for the-- suppose appraiser' s teeth to ever door

