"Sometime de darkies would eat too much and git de colic. Fer dis dey would take and chaw pine
needles and it would be all over wid den. On all de plantations dar was old womens, too old
to do any work and dey would take and study what to do fer de ailments of grown folks and lil'
chilluns. Fer de lil' chilluns and babies dey would take and chaw up pine needles and den spit
it in de lil' chilluns mouths and make dem swallow. Den when dey was a teachin' de babies to
eat dey done de food de very same way. POTATO CROQUETTES.

MRS. J. up with two tablespoonfuls of three eggs, make G. SCOTT.

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, beat into only rolls, cover with
cracker dust, or bread crumbs and fry. KIDNEY STEW. MRS melted butter
and. SEPTIMUS BARROW

. 'Twasn't no sech thing as chawin' gum till thirty years ago. Sweet gum, it's good
fer de indigestion and fer de toofies, when it don't git yer mouth all stuck so as you can't
say nothing. I 'spects dat de chief reason how come it done gone plum out o' date. I most fergot
to inform you dat resin pills is still de best thing dat I knows to start your "water" off
when it done stopped on ye.

"It was a special day on each plantation when de Master and de o'seer give out de week's rations,
like dis: Four pounds o' bacon; one peck o' meal; quart o' flour; quart o' molasses;--dey was
dat black; and dey was de rations fer a whole endurin' week. Had a big choppin' block where
all de meat was chopped on. In dem days every bit o' de meat was raised on de plantation from
de Master's hogs. Into de grooves o' dis choppin' block would git lodged small pieces o' meat.
Choppin' ax was heavy and broad. Heavy rations come out on Friday. On Sad'day come de shoulder
meat fer Sunday mornin' brekfas' and de flour come on Sad'day also. Our Master give us hominy
fer Sunday mornin' brekfas', kaise us had red meat wid gravy den. My Master was Marse' Tom
Carlisle of Goshen Hill. He de one give us dem Sunday specials. De niggers on de other surroundin'
plantations never got no sech 'sideration as I ever heard of.

"Me and John minded de Missus' cows. When de red meat choppin' was done all de plantation chilluns
would be dar to git what fall in de grooves o' de blocks. One day John 'lowed to me if you
puts your ol' black hand on dat block 'fore I does today, I is a gwine to chop it off. I never
said nary a word, but I jes' roll my eyes at him. I got dar and broke and run fer de block.
I got big piece and when John come up I was eating it. I say, Nigger, you is too late and lazy
fer anything. 'Bout that time he reach over fer a scrap I never seed. I push him back and reach
fer hit. John took up de choppin' ax and come right down on my finger, 'fore I could git it
out de way. Dat's why you see dis scar here now. Dat nigger lay my finger plum wide open, fact
is dat he jes' left it a hangin'. Marse's doctor and he fix it back. Den he whip John hisself;
never 'low de overseer to do it dat time. Marse Tom pretty good to us; never whip much; never
'low de overseer, Mr. Wash Evans, to whip too much neither. He would have liked to whip mo'
dan he did, if de Marse would 'lowed it, but he wasn't so bad. Mr. Evans wasn't no po' white
trash, but he was kinder middlin' like. De Evans is done riz high up now.

"Newt and Anderson was my young marsters. Dey was 'long 'bout my own age. Dey went to school
at Goshen Hill. De school was near de store, some folks called it de tradin' post in dem days.
De had barrels o' liquor settin' out from de store in a long row. Sold de likker to de rich
mens dat carried on at de race track near by. Folks in Goshen was all rich in dem days. Rogers
Church, where de Carlisles, Jeters, Sims, Selbys, Glens, and lots of other folks went too and
de slaves, was de richest country church in dis part o' de whole state, so I is often been
told. He said that when he became a Christian even the cat knew that some
change had taken place. dis He was a farmer, an old man.

He said that the next morning after the change of purpose he was
down to the village a little distance from his farm.

He swung along the road, happy in heart, singing loudly to himself coming out of a saloon ahead,
and thinking about the Saviour.

He had been a rough, bad man. It was made down in Island, out a bit
from Providence. It seemed prophetic of the better day coming for all the lower
animal creation. It had a genuine ring. That caught my ear. So I listened.
He had become a Christian late in feel the fumes life, and this evening
was telling about his start All at once he could.

 Times is done changed now, Lawd. Den de fields was heavy wid
corn head high and cotton up aroun' de darky's waist! Grass was all cleaned out o' de furrow's
on de las' go 'round. De fields and even de terraces was put in 'apple pie' order fer de gatherin'
o' de craps in de fall.

"As you all knows de Fourth has allus been nigger day. Marse and Missus had good rations fer
us early on de Fourth. Den us went to barbecues after de mornin' chores was done. In dem days
de barbecues was usually held on de plantation o' Marse Jim Hill in Fish Dam. Dat was not fer
from Goshen. Marse Jim had a purty spring dat is still all walled up wid fine rocks. De water
come out'n dese rocks dat cold dat you can't hold your hand in it fer more dan a minute at
de longes'. Dar is a big flat rock beyond de spring dat I 'specs kivvers more dan an acre and
a half o' ground. A creek run along over dis rock, where de mules and de hosses could rest
in de shade of de trees and drink all de water dat de wanted. Wild ferns growed waist high
along dar den. All kinds of purty flowers and daisies was gathered by de gals. Dem was de best
days dat any darky has ever seed. Never had nothing to aggravate your mind den. Plenty to eat;
plenty to wear; plenty wood to burn; good house to live in; and no worry 'bout where it was
a-coming from!

"Old Marse he give us de rations fer de barbecues. Every master wanted his darkies to be thought
well of at de barbecues by de darkies from all de other plantations. De had pigs barbecued;
goats; and de Missus let de wimmen folks bake pies, cakes and custards fer de barbecue, jes'
'zactly like hit was fer de white folks barbecue deself!

"Young ones carried on like young colts a-frolicin' in de pasture till dey had done got so
full o' vittles dat dey could not eat another bite. Den dey roamed on off and set down somewheres
to sleep in de shade o' de trees. When de sun started to going down den de old folks begin
to git ready to return back to dey home plantations, fer dar was de master's stock and chickens
to feed and put up fer de night, to say nothing o' de cows to milk. The master's work had to
go on around de big house, kaise all de darkies had been 'lowed to have such a pleasant day.
Next day being Sad'day was on dis occasion not only ration day, but de day to git ready fer
de white folks' Camp Meetin' which I has already called to recollection several times. 

and And then came into my mind behold! the, I know Ebenezer not, to
call upon Elias, and at Sims the same moment I saw the sun rising in
the heavens; and while I cried out Elias with all my might, splendor
of the sun shed upon me, and immediately shook from all me heaviness. At de barbecue
I seed niggers from several neighborin' plantations and I can tell you 'bout dat. But I draps
now to de doings o' my own white folks.

