 Strangers have taken me, my risk of his life on the frontier associated with. But soon, soon I will tell
you all this verbally at one of these letters should only prepare you before you wiedersiehst me.
Your strong spirit will endure it if I tell you what happened to me. The Russians have committed
cruel revenge on me, when I wanted to position the Germans did not
betray them.

Mother, they gave me made the sight. I am blind. And not only that, I am, I know, a horrible
sight, and this worries me especially at the thought of my young,
soft, finely perceptive woman who can not bear anything.

"The reading was interrupted by a painful cry: "O mother, how terrible!" According to Helen sobbing
pressed both hands over her face, as if they wanted to cover up what they saw in the right
spirit.

She wept bitterly, it was not possible to read on. Compassionately saw the mother to the Dismal.
"Compose yourself, Helene; not true, we knew a long time that he was in the hands of cruel
enemies, and we had prepared for the worst." "I do not, Mother, I have such horrible thoughts
always kept away.

"The woman could not understand Stegemann. lay in its very nature it finds to contemplate what
must come." Helene, "she said reproachfully," you wanted to be brave,
""

Forgive! I can not, it's too horrible! "Before the door could be
heard a voice."

Grandmother, may I come?

"And Gebhard entered, he saw his dear mother in tears next to the grandmother with the severe expression
he knew.

To him he was familiar, but the mother was afraid of him, he knew.

And when he saw it as in sorrow, it excited him, he forgot himself and said with an angry expression,
while it increased the redness of the face, "grandmother, we may not talk to the mother that she must
cry so that the father is not suffering!

"The grandmother, who he otherwise go to such occurrence was never unruly, overlooked it this time,
for gallant defense of the mother liked to be her." I have made your mother is not sad, "she
said," but that letter, although it is certain that the father is
coming soon.

Now see just how they are comforting you. Share with her the letter read it! "She gave the paper
in his hand and left the two.

Gebhard was perplexed with the letter because it was a strange handwriting still a difficult task."
I can not read aloud, "he said, "and not console also" As gathered. Helene together: "No, my
poor, dear boy, thou shalt not comfort me, you do me even so sorry. I'll tell you why I cry, Behold,
the father, your darling father is blind, his love, beautiful eyes
have been destroyed him out of revenge because he wanted to Germans
not to betray the Russians.

"She drew him to her, how terrible it had to the faithful at his
father hung so this message be!

But it was different than she thought. No tears came into his eyes,
they shone and proud of it sounded almost exultantly: "Now we must
all believe that the father is not a traitor, everyone, including
his uncle and aunt!

Mother write that you do like them, today? "" Yes, yes. Now they have
the evidence they wanted! Such a terrible show! "She shuddered again.
But Gebhard, this child, the months of the war among the comrades
of many dreadful part in all sorts of seriously wounded and had seen
more in the hospital, could not feel the rain."

Mother, "he said , "up in the hospital is a soldier, the grenade has
a torn both eyes.

But he has many times with the dog and me talked and was quite delighted,"
"How he looks, Gebhard?" sounded quite anxious question.

" I do not know, I have not exactly looked at him like that. "" Did he not terrible pain? "" No,
he never complained and I think it will not hurt her father, too. "" Perhaps it is something in the letter,
"she reached it, for the little man she had comforted, she was again
taken and read. from pain was nothing in it.

Confident it sounded:" Soon I must go, first I'm not even to your house but with other wounded to
a hospital, where you will, brave mother, I see my. I do not know if my friends are with you, and leave
it to you if you want to tell the whole sad truth Helene. Go to gently with her soft heart, it's
hard to think of their misery to me.

But one message I know you will be pleased, Gebhard above all: It was me, I was not allowed to fight
for his country, the Iron Cross awarded for the one hour in which
I could prove my loyalty when I turned aside, the enemies of the track
leading from which they were looking for and took her revenge on me.

Recently facts is the whole knowledge of the army command had to.

"Cross of Iron, how lit Gebhards eyes and what glory came over the
face of the young woman!"

She breathed deeply.

Could never now longer the old remorse they attacked, never allowed any
anyone doubting his honor.

As a loyal, brave hero, who had taken upon himself the hardest, her husband stood before God and
the world, and their own weakness had not honored its harm. Mächtig her desire grew for him, as they wanted
love and care for him and with him be happy! "As stated in the letter?
Soon I may travel. What is soon? "Come, we must ask the grandmother,
and my brother, I must write, right now, come Gebhard, come!"

Hand in hand, in a same, the joy she hurried out, seek out the grandmother. The living room
was they are not found, only the little one was sitting in low chairs
for the children beside her Grete, her evening soup was that.

At the moment, Helene knelt beside the child. "Gebhard, we need the
Jüngferlein also say that father comes. hear you Jüngferlein?

Say: "Papa!" "Mam-ma!" Cried the little girl. "Papa," repeated the mother, "Papa," asked Gebhard,
"Papa" Else said before. Amazed, the child looked from one to the other
pricked, and finally the mouth was, obviously a great effort and said
- "Mama!" Then all laughed together. Dr. Stegemann was next door and heard
the laughter, bright and cheerful sounded the voice of the young
woman in tears before long, she had resolved to leave .

'O youth, "said the grandmother down in front, but her serious face
brightened."

It is a good thing. Come, my poor blind man, there are still heartfelt joy for you. Thank God, hear
this laugh so you too, as well as we, and many heartfelt words of love you whisper to your wife,
you'll hear, "Chapter Ten. That afternoon, as Gebhard went to the hospital in order to soldiers pick
up the sample with Leo, the trained medical dog, hold would last one, accompanied him Helen.
On the way she confided to Gebhard, that they not only because of
the dog with him was going. she had before No, to visit the wounded,
The shrapnel had come to his eyes by.

She shuddered at the sight of him, but she would get used to it, before the father came. So they
went together before the city out to the hospital and she entered
it with fear.

Gebhard led the mother up the stairs. top they met the nursing sister.

"is now mother to think," said Gebhard, and Helene brought shy and timid desire before to see
the blind.

"You come just in time," said the sister, " before he goes to the
classroom, the institution in respect.

"They entered a small room with several beds, most were empty, because the wounded were so far made
already that they could stay in the garden, but one stood at the
window wide open , by the scent of blossoming linden trees streamed.

"This is the blind," said Gebhard, and led him to the mother. Helene looked up at him. No, it was
no worse sight: a ribbon was tied around his forehead and this were
at two small cloth attached to the eye sockets hidden.

She gave the wounded man's hand.

"My husband has both eyes lost," she said with deep emotion.

The blind man heard her tone. "It is indeed sad," he said "Even for women. The mine has also complained.
But we'll just accept it and trust in God. If one has learned to work until the time is one not so long.
I have lessons every afternoon. ""

May I come to you sometimes in the morning and something to read to you? "" Yes, I would probably
be right. "A wounded man, his arm in a sling, came, he led the blind
companion to the course.

Helene said goodbye. Outside, they spoke with the nurse. "May I come more often," said she,
"I would love to hear from him anymore," and added that she timidly,
"I want it without the blindfold and see."

Yes, you are only as often as you want. The bandage he wears only when he goes on the road.
You'll quickly get used to the sight - we think not more like sisters and his comrades because this
is not so bad!

"Lighter heart Helene left the building.

The blind , the comrades, the sister, they had all been so quiet. It was not as hard as they had imagined,
certainly not. Just come back tomorrow they wanted, because who could know when their beloved
blind man would be private? Every day could be longer and he should
not look weak and cowardly, no, really, he made a brave woman, and
she wanted to be him!

In the court below was waiting for his new master standing next to Leo, the medical dog. He carried
the day for the first field-gray, adorned with the red cross blanket. With a joyous bark
he jumped Gebhard on. "Today you shall masterpiece to see his Gebhard," said the dog handler.
"Morning's but seriously, we travel very early on in, just off the
front!"

Three soldiers had been preceded by the mission of the small hill in the nearby forest to hide
on a. You should think of the wounded, who were visiting. Another way was now the leader with
the dog. He joined and Gebhard to Helene. "In the barracks we have similar exercises with the
dog made already," said the officer, "but in the forest before.

But I am sure he will do his job well too." Once at the top, he
let go of the dog off the leash and called him encouragingly: "Leo,
wounded such" zealous dog racing at the first moment of the straight.
Then he seemed to recollect, sniffing here and there, excited, always
a step on the ground.

Gradually he approached the Forest. "at the edge of a creek," said
the leader.

"The bridge is above.

The soldiers will not be passed over the bridge safely, but through
the water." "But in the water He loses the track! "" Yes, of course,
but that's in the box as well.

Wait, his instincts will drive him already, on the other bank to seek the track. " True, Leo
suddenly disappeared in the depths, emerged the other side of the creek again on shaking the water
off the head, tried and disappeared in the woods. They then went to the creek along to the bridge
and across to the woods. There they stood for quite a while tense and listening. Suddenly there
was a rustling in the leaves and Leo turned up.

"He brings a hat!"

Gebhard cried and ran in bright fun brave animal, contrary to the
extended run, therefore, came rushing in and soldier's cap at the
feet of his master took off the.

"Well done, Leo, well," praised the leaders and tied the leash to the collar. "Lead me, Leo!"
The dog dressed, went ahead, the little party came into the forest, through thick and thin,
a good distance; dog then gave the sound and stopped. Hidden in the
undergrowth as possible was a soldier without a cap.

The leader spoke calmly and friendly to the soldiers, as he seems, gave him up. "Hund The must
realize that there are good friends, which we seek," he said, stroking the dog soon, now the soldiers
and led this arm continued on.

The exercise was repeated, the new medical dog proved to be brilliant, he found all the hidden.
In the evening light returned the soldiers to the hospital back in, the leader accompanied mother and
son still up in the city. Then came the farewell . "Reut you not?" he asked, looking serious for
the little man, stroking his dog for the last time.

"No, I do not regret it. I also think that Leo understands now why I give him. He knows he has to
look wounded. Gelt Leo?"

The animal wagged his tail, and it certainly did so much that from him
speech was.

Now turned Gebhard, leaders quickly gave the hand and asked the mother: "We now want to go but
better."

She understood him and made the short farewell: "Good luck!" she
cried.

"Much thanks," replied the field gray, "come Leo!" So they parted.

Helene and Gebhard went hand in hand through the suburb. The streets were almost unknown and yet
familiar with them what was happening in front of him. In the middle of the road moved in, accompanied
by two armed soldiers, a troop of captured French. They pulled and pushed a cart full of bread
up at the prison camp. no one cared much about the familiar sight .-- A
few women came by road, everyone was hanging over her arm a pack
of gray clothes, you know: these are women whose husbands are at war
and now sew for the military to earn money for themselves and their
children .-- In a shop window, stuck a sheet of paper, The latest
official reports.

A small group stands in front, and Helene and Gebhard try to read it to, but not in his right.
"Nothing special," says one to the other, "is just back to Arras
and Ypres." - Two temporary women chat with each other, you hear only
three words, only the weighty exclamation, "the 14 cent piece!" but
you know, from the eggs they speak .-- Also what two elderly ladies
mine, so worried look, complemented each man, if he only hears: "Tomorrow's
are already three weeks!" that no message has arrived from the son
more .-- A few gay girls rush over to a boast: "Oh, we have in the
last ten months left over," bread of course cards.

And suddenly all look, listen all - three shots? A victory?

Here and there goes to a window, people call the street: What is it?
And where does any of the response and reproduces itself, "Przemysl
is fallen!"

A joy to fly through the whole city.

Our two, mother and son, hurry, can hardly wait to get home, and
when she reached the house, catching just the bells ringing, the flags
come out, high above the grandmother's window at both German for the
first time, the black-yellow Austrian, for one can satisfy never,
to the joy of victory to express in this unique large, difficult time.

Months Helene had long lived with all their thoughts in the past. Again and again she had to think
back to the day that their luck had destroyed.

But now, through the letter of her husband teamed up again on a future
before her and all her thoughts went away like it should be, if he
returned.

His point, he could not fill, yes, the lodge was no longer a home for them. Some time ago already,
the mother had sent a request, find out whether the furniture had remained intact and could
be brought in the forester's house. Today it was official notification
arrived.

It said that as a result of Russian looting had destroyed all the furniture and household appliances,
beds and cut the stained, burned and Written books.

Probably
the house was destroyed yet been searched by thieves later because it was not the slightest
longer exists. Painful was this message. Helene bride had a rich artistic
decor in the lodge marketed as - well, the whole beautiful body was
lost.

And all that father and son possessed of cherished objects, each memory of earlier times, the
games, the Children's Gebhard had agreed everything was hands raw companions fallen and been destroyed
in the. Helene was deeply bent over this complete impoverishment. Not long ago she would have
worried so much, but just now that she expected her husband, it
hurt them bitter. Nothing was gone from her household, she could
not, like other women, returning in-house to receive.

But she knew her mother would make room for her beloved son to his mother he had indeed turned, not
her; the understanding she could: but his mother understood him best,
they alone had never doubted his honor ; to her he would be happy
and you had to be thankful that this was possible.

So she went to her mother and asked humbly: "How will it be when Rudolf the
hospital come from?"

       I know you will take with him joy, but when I am with the children attending,
it is not too much to you then? ""

Of course it is too much for me, "was the answer." What do you mean, mother? " asked Helen .--
shocked "I mean a lot for me, because too little is left for you. I've thought about it much
and would like to bring out that your one, simple apartment for you alone can take up to run.
But that is enough you women are not young. is to Because everything
and a capella be together.

This it is not enough. It would have very modest 3 bedroom flat to
be one or old furniture is used, we could join forces already there
to ride with, and then you were four together, so it would be best
before I am.

"" And me! " cried the young woman, and in an outburst of happiness she hugged her mother and shouted
in exuberant joy: "Without any style to our homes are, I promise
you, mother, so inartistic as you want to.

A very cozy nest is's still, oh mother , we see the same apartments?
"

The mother looked happy on the radiant joy, the young woman's eyes
gleamed.

And she thought of her son. The best treasure was he had stayed.

In the next few days were added from two letters that had influence on this future plan. The first
was Helen's brother. He said, welcoming participation from the fate of the blind man, but also pride
and joy of the Iron Cross, which would add to the glory of the whole
family. the nurse may help to He asked for the creation of a new home.

The second letter contained an official letter and said that thanks to the large sums that Germany
for the displaced East Prussia had been received from all, to compensation for the lost property
shall be authorized could, once the request would be made. was moved to tears Helene on this voluntary
help from all sides. Now it did not need more, they could all so
beautiful and richly buy again, as once as a bride.

But she was strangely thought of to go to shop and ask about: heart, what do you desire? more
happy they do not. In wartime, where so much destitution prevailed, it should satisfy all needs?
She was happy and was so eager at the thought of everything simply so
and modest as possible to set up. For a while they began to think,
then she came to her mother. "You've calculated that we serve, if we
set ourselves economically. Then I would rather accept anything from the
sum is intended for the displaced. It is usually from poorer to. I mean,
Rudolf is also so take it. What do you think, mother? "I think you
have the heart in the right spot," was the reply. This good word
Helen said in an upbeat mood, which was also her while she chose
the modest apartment and outfitted with simple furniture.

Preparing a cheerful, she fulfilled a nuptial expectations these days. CHAPTER XI. At his school
notebooks Gebhard sat and sighed.

He was waiting for her father unbearably long.

The mother had it good - their days were completely filled with preparations
for his father's coming and they flat turned for him, it was because
of him almost daily to the hospital to the eyes of suffering and the
blind and helped with their care.

And the grandmother was morning to night in all kinds of military assistance act, many poor women
came to her and she gave them work, they rarely had a little leisure for her grandson. Else
Grete and were all free hours on the way, they collected a gold for his country which, by
the even more anxious and thoughtless people stuck with. The sister
course, played like the brother, but more as a "cuckoo" could not
fall for that.

The playmate was better but Leo was missing and now. Once, when the mother came home from the hospital,
he complained to her: "It takes so long, so terribly long, up comes
the father!"

She comforted him. "Now he will surely come soon. Just wait a little while, then it becomes more
beautiful with us." From the nearest exit they brought him a book that he repeat the offense
over the period of rapid reading. But the book was soon over. He came to the grandmother. "I wonder
when at last the father, I can not wait!" "So, can not you wait? We and our soldiers out there have
to wait at home but all of them!" "Yes, but it is not a good time if one waits, grandmother. ""
Will you then have a nice time in the war, while many suffer so? Be glad you something must
suffer, if it's just a severe test of patience is.
 You know the
kind that closes by a snap at the top. Then he whispered to me softly in his ear: 'You have nothing to fear
your competitors by, best Referendarius, the work that brought the small cinnabar are pathetic!
" The examination began, not a question I left unanswered by the Council. Cinnabar knew nothing,
absolutely nothing, rather than respond, he snored and squeaked inaudible stuff that no one understood
was, even by the unruly legs kicked a couple of times from the high chair down, so I had him back
hinaufheben that. However, I but through the hard collisions, which here
existed, car was hurled back and forth in the so that my head is full of bumps a bag filled with
walnuts was not dissimilar, but I awoke from deep sleep into which I sunk, not stop until I a horrible
jolt out of the car out on the hard ground with crashed. The sun was
shining brightly into my face, and through the barrier, which stood
close to me, I saw the high towers of a considerable town.

The truck driver lamented much, as not only the pole, but a rear wheel of the car at the big stone
that lay in the middle of the road, broken, and seemed little or nothing to take care of me.
I held, as befits the wise, my anger, and called back only to the meek guy, he was a damned
rascal, he should remember that Ptolemy Philadelphus, the most famous scholars of his day, were
sitting on the St-, and pole shaft and bike wheel can be. You know,
my dear Rufin, the violence, which I Uebe about the human heart, and
so it happened that the truck driver instantly unwatchable complain
to me and with the help of Chausseeinnehmers, before whose cottage
the accident gone, helped on their feet.

I was lucky no particular harm suffered and was able to slow the road fortzuwandeln on, while the
broken truck driver dragged the car Muehsam. Not far from the gate of the city I saw in the blue distance, met me
but now many people from such fantastical creatures, and in such strange clothes, I rubbed my
eyes, to explore whether I really awake or if not perhaps a great neckhafter dream me just in a
foreign fabulous land transfer. - these people I right for residents of the city, from whose gate
I saw get hold was carried with long, very wide pants, sort of Japanese adapted to, from delicious
witness, velvet, Manchester, fine cloth, or even probably bunt-embroidered linen, with lace or
pretty cords and ropes richly, with small Kinderroecklein, hardly the abdomen covering, mostly from
sun light color, a few were black. The hair was uncombed in natural
savagery on shoulders and back down, and on his head sat a little strange
hats. Some had their necks completely denuded after the manner of
the modern Greeks and Turks, while others wore neck and chest a little
piece silver screens, nearly one Hemdekragen similar to how you , dear
Rufin, they'll have seen pictures of our ancestors on the. to be young
people all seemed very Notwithstanding this was, but her deep and
rough language, their clumsy movements each, and many had a small
shadow under the nose as I sit there a Stutzbaertchen. from the buttocks
of small skirts some sticking out a long tube, the large silk tassels
dangling from.

Others had Roehr pulled them and small - bigger - sometimes very large
strangely shaped heads below it fixed, from which it up quite a tapering
tube blowing into, by way clouds of steam rise up to be aware artificial
skillful at.

Andre wore wide flashing swords in the hands, as if to entgegenziehen
the enemy, yet others had containers of leather or metal slung over small
or the Standing strapped. You can imagine, my dear Rufin, that I, who
have each new appearance to me to enrich my knowledge by looking
solicitous look, stood still and my eyes firmly fixed on the strange
people.

As they gathered around me, shouting quite enormous: 'Philistines
- Philistines! " - And pitched a terrible pool. - That annoyed me. Because,
dear Rufin, there is a great scholar for something offensive, for one
of the people to be held as the means of many thousands of years
before one was killed Eselkinnbackens? - I took together in the innate
dignity to me and said loudly to the strange people around me, that
I hope me being in a civilized state, and that I would turn to the
police and courts, caused me to avenge the injustice.

As they buzzed all, even those who have not yet gedampft machinery pulled the designated out of his
pocket, and all I blew the thick clouds of steam in the face, which I only now realized how completely
unbearable stench and numbed my senses. Then they language to a kind of curse over me, whose
words I hideousness of their half to you, dear Rufin, do not like to repeat. Only with a deep dread
I can even think about it.

Finally they left me with loud jeers, and I felt as if the word whip in the air Verhalle! - My driver,
who heard everything, seen by, wringing her hands and said, 'Oh my dear Lord! Now this has happened,
what happened, you certainly do not go into that town!
 He consumed an incredible amount of larks and drank and Goldwasser confused Malaga and
snarled and growled between the teeth and fumbled, he nosed over the table pointed rich could
hardly huge with the hands and legs.

The breakfast ended when, called both the prince and the minister: "He is an English man, this
Spezialrat Secret!" - "You see," Fabian said to his friend Balthasar,
"you look so cheerful, your eyes light up in specific fire. - You feel
happy? - Oh, Balthazar, you may be dreaming a beautiful dream, but
I need it yourself inspiring friend's duty is done! "What did you know
what?" asked Balthasar consternation.

"Yes," said Fabian, "yes - I tell it you must!

Pull yourself, my friend - Keep in mind, perhaps no accident in the world painfully true that
and get over easier yet, just as this! - Candida "-" To God, "cried Balthasar horrified," Candida!
- what about Candida? - she is gone - is she dead?

"" Quiet, "said Fabian continued," still, my friend - not Candida is dead, but as good as
dead for you! - Know that the little tin Spezialrat and become as
good as promised is privy to the beautiful Candida, which, God knows
how to be very fond of him.

"Fabian believed that Balthasar would break loose now in headlong, desperate complaints and
curses. Instead, he spoke with a quiet smile: "Is it nothing more than that, so there is no accident that
could sadden me." "You love more Candida not?" asked Fabian in astonishment.
"I love you," said Balthasar, "I love the sky child, the beautiful
girl with all the passion, with all the enthusiasm, that of a youth's
chest ignite can only And I know - oh I know that Candida loves me
again, that only a wicked spell she ensnared holds, but I soon loose
the bands of witchcraft, I soon destroy the monster, the poor are
deceived by.

" - Balthasar friends then told in detail the of the wonderful man he met the strangest Wagon
in the woods in. It concluded therefore that, from the stock knob of the magical essence, a
beam in his breast sparkled as well, the firm thought he absorbed
into that cinnabar is nothing but a Hexenmaennlein, whose power to
destroy will man the other.

"But," said Fabian, as the friend had finished, "but Balthasar, as
you can on such a great, strange things just fall? - the man you think
is a magician is none other than the Doctor Prosper Alpanus of our
city to his country house resides.

True is that the strangest rumors disseminated by him, so that you almost want to keep for a second
Cagliostro him, but because he himself is to blame. He likes to wrap itself in mystical darkness,
the appearance of the deepest secrets of the Nature trusted man to assume the unknown forces
commands, and he has the most bizarre ideas. is, for example, his wagon strange in such a way
that a man who animated fiery imagination is, like you, my friend
brought can then probably , for all for some great fairy tale to keep
an appearance.

Listen, then! - Its Convertible has the shape of a shell and is silver plated over and over, between
the wheels is an appropriate organ, which as well as the car goes, of course plays. The what
you are for silver pheasant were holding one, was certain his little white-clad jockey, as you surely
the leaves of ausgespreiteten umbrella the Fluegeldecken a gold bugs
were holding for. two white horses makes his big horns Screw it, make
it very appearance is fabulous only.

Besides, right there that the doctor Alpanus nice Spanish cane carried
on, with one a glorious sparkling crystal, which is sitting up than
on button and the strange effect of a lot of tells, or Fabulous contrary
is lying. The ray of this crystal should be namely an eye unbearable.
Shroud him to the doctor with a thin veil, and to set a firm look
at it now, so will the image of the person that wears it in the innermost
thoughts, as in a concave mirror to appear outside.

" "In fact," his friend Balthasar fell into the word, "indeed? Spread the it? - Why because we probably
even further from the Doctor Prosper Alpanus" "Ah," said Fabian, "ask not only that I have
great faces and antics to the much talked of. You know that there are still far adventurous are people of
common sense, contrary to all the so-called miracle silly old wives' tales believe. "" I will confess
to you, "said Balthasar "that I am compelled, even the lot of these adventurous people with
no sound reason to beat me.
 Most time
they went to bed when they could. Now the teacher came near him and sent a question to him. Gebhard
got up slowly, breathing deeply as if he had to lift into the air
with a load.

The teacher laughed. 'Well, is it such a tough question? You sigh so neat! " Of compressed heart
came the reply: "Because maybe even father arrives mine and I school'm
in!"

"Your father is coming? Morning? You it would have gladly welcomed Yes! On Want and you say no?
Is it still time?" Gebhard could hardly reply with excitement.

"Silly boy! Something I allow it! this Spring!" Now life came into the little man, he drove to his
place of, the door to.

"Your hat!" Some people were shouting and laughing.

He turned again, she now saw all his radiant face.

The cap from the nail, and away, the station on.

Heading It struck nine clock, three hours, he could need to wait outside the station when, though
he was missing home. As long as he wanted to hold out, oh light and
happy!

At the station square was not as usual before the arrival of hospital
trains a crowd. Rotkreuz also drove car no. Only one was empty and
abandoned the hall. If only the school friend was right.

Perhaps it was a wrong message.
He looked around. His eyes fell on two women with baskets on his arm,
standing there and talking. He spoke to them, I wonder if soon the wounded
were up.
 Finally, he confided, his brother was orderly,
Gebhard on that this morning a train of wounded were up, he should really say no one, not so curious
people came to the station the. They would all be brought into the hospital, but one that would
pick up his brother and take in the eye clinic, who had lost both eyes. Whether the father could
be Gebhards not? "Of course he can be!" Gebhard said almost frightened
by the sudden hope of reunion.
 Heh!
Heh! Yessir my ol' husban' sayed he sure was scared that day.

