STRADELLA

STRADELLA

BY

F. MARION CRAWFORD AUTHOR OF "SARACINESCA," "FAIR MARGARET," ETC., ETC.

ILLUSTRATED

New York THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

1909

All rights reserved

COPYRIGHT, 1908, BY F. MARION CRAWFORD.

COPYRIGHT, 1908, BY BUTTERICK PUBLISHING CO.

COPYRIGHT, 1909. BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

Set up and electrotyped. Published October, 1909.

Norwood Press J. S. Cushing Co.--Berwick & Smith Co. Norwood, Mass., U.S.A.

                         LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

'But Ortensia did not even hear him, and sat quite still
  in her chair'                                     Frontispiece

                                                       FACING PAGE

'"This is the celebrated Maestro Alessandro Stradella
  of Naples"'                                                   11

'The footman came back at last with a white face'               87

'The two Bravi faced the watch side by side'                   243

'"The profession has two branches. We take lives, you
  take purses"'                                                282

'He began to look about for lodgings'                          307

'Trombin advanced upon him slowly, looking more like an
  avenging demon than a man'                                   373

'She sat up in his arms and framed his face in her hands'      406

CHAPTER I

The Senator Michele Pignaver, being a childless widower of several years' standing and a personage
of wealth and worth in Venice, made up his mind one day that he would marry his niece Ortensia,
as soon as her education was completed. For he was a man of culture and of refined tastes,
fond of music, much given to writing sonnets and to reading the works of the elegant Politian,
as well as to composing sentimental airs for the voice and lute. He patronised arts and letters
with vast credit and secret economy; for he never gave anything more than a supper and a recommendation
to the poets, musicians, and artists who paid their court to him and dedicated to him their
choicest productions. The supper was generally a frugal affair, but his reputation in æsthetic
matters was so great that a word from him to a leader of fashion, or a letter of introduction
to a Venetian Ambassador abroad, often proved to be worth more than the gold he abstained from
giving. He spoke Latin, he could read Greek, and his taste in poetry was so highly cultivated
that he called Dante's verse rough, uncouth, and vulgar--precisely as Horace Walpole, seventy
or eighty years later, could not conceive how any one could prefer Shakespeare's rude lines
to the elegant verses of Mr. Pope. For the Senator lived in the age when Louis XIV. was young,
and Charles II. had been restored to the throne only a few years before the beginning of this
story.

Pignaver was about fifty years old. There is no good reason why a widower of that age, robust
and temperate, and hardly grey, should not take a wife; perhaps there is really no reason,
either, why he should not marry a girl of eighteen, if she will have him, and where neither
usage nor ecclesiastical ordinances are opposed to it, the young lady may even be his niece.
Besides, in the present case, the Senator would appear to his peers and associates to be conferring
a favour on the object of his elderly affections, and to be crowning the series of favours
he had already conferred. For Ortensia was the penniless child of his brother-in-law, a scapegrace
who had come to a bad end in Crete. The Senator's wife had taken the child to her heart, having
none of her own, and had brought her up lovingly and wisely, little dreaming that she was educating
her own successor. If she had known it, she might have behaved differently, for her lord had
never succeeded in winning her affections, and she regarded him to the end with mingled distrust
and dislike, while he looked upon her as an affliction and a thorn in his side. Yet they were
both very good people in their way. She died comparatively young, and he deemed it only just
that after enduring the thorn so long, he should enjoy the rose for the rest of his life.

When Ortensia was seventeen and a half her uncle announced his matrimonial intentions to her,
fastened a fine string of pearls round her throat, kissed her on the forehead, and left her
alone to meditate on her good fortune.

Her reflections were of a mixed character, however, and not all pleasant. The idea that she
could disobey or resist did not occur to her, of course, for the Senator had always appeared
to her as the absolute lord of his household, against whose will it was useless to make any
opposition, and she knew what an important person he was considered to be amongst his equals.

But in her inmost heart she knew that he was not really what he made people think he was. She
had a ready sense of humour, and she felt that under his ponderous disguise of importance he
was quite a ridiculous person. He was miserly to meanness; he was as vain as an ape; he was
a man who had flattered himself, and had been flattered by others, into a sort of artificially
inflated doll that imposed on many people and deceived almost all. And yet Ortensia was aware
of something in him that frightened her a little, though she could not quite tell what it was.
Possibly, like many externally artificial people, there was a cruel side to his character.
There are men who become ridiculous as soon as they cease to be dangerous, and who are most
dangerous when they fear that they are just going to become a laughing-stock.

Ortensia reflected on these things after her uncle had given her the pearls and had kissed
her on the forehead. The pearls were very beautiful, but the kiss had been distinctly disagreeable.
The Senator waxed his moustaches to make them stay up, as many men did then, and she thought
that if a cold hard-boiled egg, surrounded with bristles like a hair-brush, had touched her
forehead, the sensation would have been very much the same, and she shook her delicate shoulders
in disgust at the thought, and slowly rubbed the offended spot with two fingers, while her
other hand played with the string of pearls in her lap.

It would be a great thing, of course, to be a senator's wife and the mistress of such a house
as the Palazzo Pignaver, which she had first entered as a little orphan waif ten years ago.
But to be kissed daily, even on the forehead, by her Uncle Michele, would be a high price to
pay for greatness. She supposed that he would kiss her every day when she was married, for
that was probably a part of marriage, which had always seemed to her a mysterious affair at
best. Young girls looked forward to it with delight, and old women seemed to look back on it
with disappointment, while those who were neither old nor young never said anything about it,
but often seemed to be on bad terms with their husbands. 

The immense "Salt Valley" of Dasht-Beyad by Khorasson covers the most ancient civilizations
of the world; while the Shamo desert has had time to change from sea to land, and from fertile
land to a dead desert, since the day when the first civilization of the Fifth Race left its
now invisible, and perhaps for ever hidden, "traces" under its beds of sand.

Times have changed, are changing. Proofs of the old civilizations
and the archaic wisdom are accumulating.

Though soldier-bigots and priestly schemers have burnt books and converted old libraries to
base uses; though the dry rot and the insect have destroyed inestimably precious records; though
within the historic period the Spanish brigands made bonfires of the works of the refined archaic
American races, which, if spared, would have solved many a riddle of history; though Omar lit the
fires of the Alexandrian baths for months with the literary treasures of the Serapeum; though
the Sybilline and other mystical books of Rome and Greece were destroyed in war; though the South Indian
invaders of Ceylon "heaped into piles as high as the tops of the cocoanut trees" the ollas
of the Buddhists, and set them ablaze to light their victory--thus obliterating from the world's
knowledge early Buddhist annals and treatises of great importance: though this hateful and senseless
Vandalism has disgraced the career of most fighting nations--still, despite everything, there
are extant abundant proofs of the history of mankind, and bits and scraps come to light from
time to time by what science has often called "most curious coincidences." Europe has no very
trustworthy history of her own vicissitudes and mutations, her successive
races and their doings.

What with their savage wars, the barbaric habits of the historic Goths, Huns, Franks, and other
warrior nations, and the interested literary Vandalism of the shaveling priests who for centuries
sat upon its intellectual life like a nightmare, an antiquity could not exist for Europe. And,
having no Past to record themselves, the European critics, historians and archeologists have
not scrupled to deny one to others--whenever the concession excited a sacrifice of biblical
prestige.

No "traces of old civilizations" we are told! And what about the Pelasgi--the direct forefathers
of the Hellenes, according to Herodotus? What about the Etruscans--the race mysterious and wonderful,
if any, for the historian, and whose origin is the most insoluble of problems? That which
is known of them only shows that could something more be known, a whole series of prehistoric
civilizations might be discovered. A people described as are the Pelasgi--a highly intellectual,
receptive, active people, chiefly occupied with agriculture, warlike when necessary, though
preferring peace; a people who built canals as no one else, subterranean water-works, dams,
walls, and Cyclopean buildings of the most astounding strength; who
are even suspected of having been the inventors of the so-called Cadmean
or Phoenician writing characters from which all European alphabets
are derived--who were they?

Could they be shown by any possible means as the descendants of the biblical Peleg (Gen. x.
25) their high civilization would have been thereby demonstrated,
though their antiquity would still have to be dwarfed to 2247 "B.C.."

And who were the Etruscans?

Shall the Easterns like the Westerns be made to believe that between the high civilizations of the
pre-Roman (and we say--prehistoric) Tursenoi of the Greeks, with their twelve great cities
known to history; their Cyclopean buildings, their plastic and pictorial arts, and the time when
they were a nomadic tribe "first descended into Italy from their northern latitudes"--only
a few centuries elapsed? Shall it be still urged that the Phoenicians with their Tyre 2750 "B.C."
(a chronology, accepted by Western history), their commerce, fleet, learning, arts, and civilization,
were only a few centuries before the building of Tyre but "a small tribe of Semitic fishermen"?
Or, that the Trojan war could not have been earlier than 1184 B.C., and thus Magna Graecia must
be fixed somewhere between the eighth and the ninth Century "B.C.," and by no means thousands of
years before, as was claimed by Plato and Aristotle, Homer and the Cyclic Poems, derived from,
and based upon, other records millenniums older? If the Christian historian, hampered by his
chronology, and the freethinker by lack of necessary data, feel bound to stigmatize every non-Christian
or non-Western chronology as "obviously fanciful," "purely mythical," and "not worthy of a moment's
consideration," how shall one, wholly dependent upon Western guides get at the truth? And if these
incompetent builders of Universal History can persuade their public to accept as authoritative
their chronological and ethnological reveries, why should the Eastern student, who has access
to quite different--and we make bold to say, more trustworthy-- materials,
be expected to join in the blind belief of those who defend Western
historical infallibility?

He believes--on the strength of the documentary evidence, left by Yavanacharya (Pythagoras)
607 "B.C." in India, and that of his own national "temple records," that instead of giving hundreds
we may safely give thousands of years to the foundation of Cumaea and Magna Graecia, of which
it was the pioneer settlement. That the civilization of the latter had already become effete
when Pythagoras, the great pupil of Aryan Masters went to Crotone. And, having no biblical bias
to overcome, he feels persuaded that, if it took the Celtic and Gaelic
tribes Britannicae Insulae, with the ready-made civilizations of Rome
before their eyes, and acquaintance with that of the Phoenicians whose
trade with them began a thousand years before the Christian era; and
to crown all with the definite help later of the Normans and Saxons--two
thousand years before they could build their medieval cities, not
even remotely comparable with those of the Romans; and it took them
two thousand five hundred years to get half as civilized; then, that
instead of that hypothetical period, benevolently styled the childhood
of the race, being within easy reach of the Apostles and the early
Fathers, it must be relegated to an enormously earlier time.

Surely if it took the barbarians of Western Europe so many centuries to develop a language and
create empires, then the nomadic tribes of the "mythical" periods
ought in common fairness--since they never came under the fructifying
energy of that Christian influence to which we are asked to ascribe
all the scientific enlightenment of this age--about ten thousand years
to build their Tyres and their Veii, their Sidons and Carthagenes.

As other Troys lie under the surface of the topmost one in the Troad; and other and higher
civilizations were exhumed by Mariette Bey under the stratum of sand from which the archeological
collections of Lepsius, Abbott, and the British Museum were taken; and six Hindu "Delhis,"
superposed and hidden away out of sight, formed the pedestal upon which the Mogul conqueror built
the gorgeous capital whose ruins still attest the splendour of his
Delhi; so when the fury of critical bigotry has quite subsided, and
Western men are prepared to write history in the interest of truth
alone, will the proofs be found of the cyclic law of civilization.

Modern Florence lifts her beautiful form above the tomb of Etruscan Florentia, which in her
turn rose upon the hidden vestiges of anterior towns.

And so also Arezzo, Perugia, Lucca, and many other European sites now occupied by modern towns
and cities, are based upon the relics of archaic civilizations whose period covers ages incomputable,
and whose names Echo has forgotten to even whisper through "the corridors
of Time."

When the Western historian has finally and Unanswerably proven who were the Pelasgi, at least,
and who the Etruscans, and the as mysterious Iapygians, who seem also to have had an earlier acquaintance
with writing--as proved by their inscriptions--than the Phoenicians, then only may he menace the
Asiatic into acceptance of his own arbitrary data and dogmas.

More easily than was many another civilization. Europe has neither the titanic and Cyclopean masonry
of the ancients, nor even its parchments, to preserve the records of its "existing arts and languages."
Its civilization is too recent, too rapidly growing, to leave any
positively indestructible relics of either its architecture, arts
or sciences.

What is there in the whole Europe that could be regarded as even approximately indestructible,
without mentioning the debacle of the geological upheaval that follows generally such cataclysms?
Is it its ephemeral Crystal Palaces, its theatres, railways, modern fragile furniture: or its
electric telegraphs, phonographs, telephones, and micrographs? While each of the former is at
the mercy of fire and cyclone, the last enumerated marvels of modern
science can be destroyed by a child breaking them to atoms.

When we know of the destruction of the "Seven World's Wonders," of Thebes, Tyre, the Labyrinth,
and the Egyptian pyramids and temples and giant palaces, as we now see slowly crumbling into
the dust of the deserts, being reduced to atoms by the hand of Time--lighter
and far more merciful than any cataclysm--the question seems to us
rather the outcome of modern pride than of stern reasoning.

Is it your daily newspapers and periodicals, rags of a few days; your fragile books bearing
the records of all your grand civilization, withal liable to become annihilated after a few meals
are made on them by the white ants, that are regarded as invulnerable?

And why should European civilization escape the common lot? It is from the lower classes, the
units of the great masses who form the majorities in nations, that survivors will escape in greater
numbers; and these know nothing of the arts, sciences, or languages except their own, and those very
imperfectly. The arts and sciences are like the phoenix of old: they
die but to revive.

And when the question found on page 58 of "Esoteric Buddhism" concerning "the curious rush of
human progress within the last two thousand years," was first propounded, Mr. Sinnett's correspondent
might have made his answer more complete by saying: "This rush, this progress, and the abnormal
rapidity with which one discovery follows the other, ought to be a sign to human intuition
that what you look upon in the light of 'discoveries' are merely
rediscoveries, which, following the law of gradual progress, you make
more perfect, yet in enunciating, you are not the first to explain
them."

We learn more easily that which we have heard about, or learnt in childhood. If, as averred, the
Western nations have separated themselves from the great Aryan stock,
it becomes evident that the races that first peopled Europe were inferior
to the root-race which had the Vedas and the pre-historic Rishis.

That which your far-distant forefathers had heard in the secrecy of the temples was not lost.
It reached their posterity, which is now simply improving upon details.

Question IV.--Is the Moon immersed in matter?

No "Adept," so far as the writers know, has ever given to "Lay Chela" his "views of the moon," for
publication. With Selenography, modern science is far better acquainted than any humble Asiatic
ascetic may ever hope to become. It is to be feared the speculations on pp. 104 and 105 of
"Esoteric Buddhism," besides being hazy, are somewhat premature.

Therefore, it may be as well to pass on to--

Question V.--About the mineral monad.

Any English expression that correctly translates the idea given is "authorized by the Adepts."
Why not? The term "monad" applies to the latent life in the mineral as much as it does to the life
in the vegetable and the animal. The monogenist may take exception to the term and especially
to the idea while the polygenist, unless he be a corporealist, may
not.

As to the other class of scientists, they would take objection to the idea even of a human monad,
and call it "unscientific." What relation does the monad bear to
the atom?

None whatever to the atom or molecule as in the scientific conception at present. It can neither
be compared with the microscopic organism classed once among polygastric infusoria, and now regarded
as vegetable and ranked among algae; nor is it quite the monas of
the Peripatetics.

Physically or constitutionally the mineral monad differs, of course, from that of the human monad, which
is neither physical, nor can its constitution be rendered by chemical symbols and elements.
In short, the mineral monad is one--the higher animal and human monads
are countless.

Otherwise, how could one account for and explain mathematically the evolutionary and spiral
progress of the four kingdoms? The "monad" is the combination of the last two Principles in
man, the 6th and the 7th, and, properly speaking, the term "human monad" applies only to the
Spiritual Soul, not to its highest spiritual vivifying Principle. But since divorced from the
latter the Spiritual Soul could have no existence, no being, it has thus been called. The composition
(if such a word, which would shock an Asiatic, seems necessary to help European conception) of
Buddhi or the 6th principle is made up of the essence of what you would call matter (or perchance
a centre of Spiritual Force) in its 6th and 7th condition or state; the animating ATMAN being
part of the ONE LIFE or Parabrahm.

Now the Monadic Essence (if such a term be permitted) in the mineral, vegetable and animal, though the
same throughout the series of cycles from the lowest elemental up to the Deva kingdom, yet differs
in the scale of progression.

It would be very misleading to imagine a monad as a separate entity trailing its slow way in a distinct
path through the lower kingdoms, and after an incalculable series of transmigrations flowering
into a human being; in short, that the monad of a Humboldt dates
back to the monad of an atom of hornblende.

Instead of saying a mineral monad, the correcter phraseology in physical science which differentiates
every atom, would of course have been to call it the Monad manifesting in that form of Prakriti
called the mineral kingdom. Each atom or molecule of ordinary scientific hypotheses is not
a particle of something, animated by a psychic something, destined to blossom as a man after aeons.
But it is a concrete manifestation of the Universal Energy which itself has not yet become individualized:
a sequential manifestation of the one Universal Monas. The ocean does not divide into its potential
and constituent drops until the sweep of the life-impulse reaches the evolutionary stage of man-birth.
The tendency towards segregation into individual monads is gradual,
and in the higher animals comes almost to the point.

The Peripatetics applied the word Monas to the whole Cosmos, in the pantheistic sense; and the
Occultists while accepting this thought for convenience' sake, distinguish the progressive
stages of the evolution of the Concrete from the Abstract by terms of which the "Mineral Monad"
is one.

The term merely means that the tidal wave of spiritual evolution is passing through that arc
of its circuit.

The "Monadic Essence" begins to imperceptibly differentiate in the vegetable kingdom. As the
monads are uncompounded things, as correctly defined by Leibnitz, it is the spiritual essence
which vivifies them in their degrees of differentiation which constitutes
properly the monad--not the atomic aggregation which is only the vehicle
and the substance through which thrill the lower and higher degrees
of intelligence.

And though, as shown by those plants that are known as sensitives, there are a few among them that
may be regarded as possessing that conscious perception which is called by Leibnitz apperception,
while the rest are endowed but with that internal activity which
may be called vegetable nerve-sensation (to call it perception would
be wrong), yet even the vegetable monad is still the Monad in its
second degree of awakening sensation.

Leibnitz came several times very near the truth, but defined the monadic evolution incorrectly and
often greatly blundered. There are seven kingdoms. The first group comprises three degrees of elementals,
or nascent centres of forces--from the first stage of the differentiation of Mulaprakriti to
its third degree--i.e., from full unconsciousness to semi-perception;
the second or higher group embraces the kingdoms from vegetable to
man; the mineral kingdom thus forming the central or turning-point
in the degrees of the "Monadic Essence"-- considered as an Evoluting
Energy.

Three stages in the elemental side; the mineral kingdom; three stages in the objective physical
side--these are the seven links of the evolutionary chain.

A descent of spirit into matter, equivalent to an ascent in physical evolution; a re-ascent from
the deepest depths of materiality (the mineral) towards its status
quo ante, with a corresponding dissipation of concrete organisms up
to Nirvana--the vanishing point of differentiated matter.

Perhaps a simple diagram will aid us:--

[[Diagram here]]

The line A D represents the gradual obscuration of spirit as it passes into concrete matter; the
point D indicates the evolutionary position of the mineral kingdom from its incipient (d) to
its ultimate concretion (a); c, b, a, on the left-hand side of the
figure, are the three stages of elemental evolution; i.e., the three
successive stages passed by the spiritual impulse (through the elementals--of
which little is permitted to be said) before they are imprisoned in
the most concrete form of matter; and a, b, c, on the right-hand side,
are the three stages of organic life, vegetable, animal, human.

What is total obscuration of spirit is complete perfection of its polar antithesis--matter; and
this idea is conveyed in the lines A D and D A. The arrows show the line of travel of the
evolutionary impulse in entering its vortex and expanding again into the subjectivity of the
ABSOLUTE. The central thickest line, d d, is the Mineral Kingdom.

The monogenists have had their day. Man is the end towards which all the animal creation has
tended from the first appearance of the first Palaeozoic fishes"

("Principles of Zoology," pp. 205-6). The mineral "monad" is not an individuality latent, but an
all-pervading Force which has for its Present vehicle matter in its
lowest and most concrete terrestrial state; in man the monad is fully
developed, potential, and either passive or absolutely active, according
to its vehicle, the five lower and more physical human principles.

In the Deva kingdom it is fully liberated and in its highest state--but
one degree lower than the ONE Universal Life.*

---------- * The above
diagram represents a logical section of the scheme of evolution, and
not the evolutionary history of a unit of consciousness.

----------

Question VIII.--Sri Sankaracharya's Date

It is always difficult to determine with precision the date of any particular event in the ancient
history of India; and this difficulty is considerably enhanced by the speculations of European
Orientalists, whose labours in this direction have but tended to thicken the confusion already
existing in popular legends and traditions, which were often altered or modified to suit the
necessities of sectarian controversy.

The causes that have produced this result will be fully ascertained on examining the assumptions
on which these speculations are based.

The writings of many of these Orientalists are often characterized by an imperfect knowledge of
Indian literature, philosophy and religion, and of Hindu traditions, and a contemptuous disregard
for the opinions of Hindu writers and pundits.
 His face, his tone, his gestures, the way
he held his lute, were all as familiar to her already as if he had given her half-a-dozen lessons;
and when he was gone and she sat once more in her chair looking at the top of the cypress tree
against the noonday sky, she saw and heard all again, and then again; but she neither saw nor
heard her nurse, who had laid aside the lace-pillow and was standing at her elbow telling her
that it was time for the mid-day meal and that her uncle did not like to be kept waiting. The
nurse spoke three times before Ortensia heard her and looked up.

'They say well that music is a thief,' observed the middle-aged woman in grey, enigmatically,
as she stood with her hands folded under her black apron, gazing intently at Ortensia's face.

The young girl laughed as she rose.

'Poor old Pina!' she answered, tapping her forehead with one finger as if to say that the nurse
was weak-minded.

But Pina smiled, and made three gestures, without saying a word: first she pointed to herself,
then she shook her forefinger, and lastly she jerked her thumb back in the direction of the
door that led to the Senator's apartments. The weak-minded body was not Pina, but her master,
since he had brought that handsome singer to teach Ortensia, who had never before exchanged
two words with any young man, handsome or plain, except under the nose of the Senator himself;
and that had always been at those great festivals to which the Venetian nobles took their wives
and daughters, even when the latter were very young, to show off their fine clothes and jewels,
though it meant comparing them publicly with quite another class of beauties.

For the Venetian maxim was that women and girls were safe in public or under lock and key,
but that there was no salvation for them between those two extremes.

But, in the eyes of Pignaver, a musician was not a man, any more than a servant or a gondolier
could be. Where a Venetian lady was concerned, nothing was a man that had not a seat in the
Grand Council; that was the limit, below which the male population consisted of sexless creatures
like domestics, shopkeepers, and workmen.

Furthermore, the vanity of Pignaver raised him above all other competitors as high as the Campanile
stood above Saint Mark's and the Ducal Palace, not to mention the rest of Venice, and the idea
that Ortensia, who had been informed that she was to be the wife of his transcendently gifted
and desirable self, could stoop to look at a Sicilian music-master, would have struck him as
superlatively comic, though his sense of humour was imperfect, to say the least of it.

Even if the great man could have set aside all these considerations for a moment, so as to
look upon Stradella as a possible rival, he would still have believed that the presence of
Pina during the lessons was a trustworthy safeguard against any 'accident to Ortensia's affections,'
as he would have expressed the danger. He had unbounded faith in Pina's devotion to him and
in her severity as a chaperon. On the rare occasions when the young girl was allowed to leave
the palace without her uncle, Pina accompanied her in the gondola, and sometimes on foot as
far as the church of the Frari, where she went to confession once a month; but, as a rule,
she had her daily airing with the Senator himself, meekly sitting on his left, and pretending
to keep her eyes fixed on an imaginary point directly ahead, as he insisted that she must,
lest she should look at any of the handsome young nobles who were only too anxious to pass
as near as possible on her side of the gondola.

For, though she was not eighteen years old, the reputation of her beauty was already abroad;
and as it was said that she was to inherit her uncle's vast wealth, there were at least three
hundred young gentlemen of high degree who desired her now, since no one knew that the Senator
had determined to marry her himself. Their offers were constantly presented to him, sometimes
by their fathers or mothers, and sometimes by ingenious elderly friends who undertook such
negotiations for a financial consideration. But Pignaver always returned the same answer, politely
expressing his thanks for the honour done his niece, but saying that he had 'other views for her.'

Pina, however, hated him for reasons of her own, which he had either forgotten, or which he
disregarded because, in his opinion, she was under the greatest obligation to the house. Pina's
hatred of her master was more sincere, if possible, than her affection for Ortensia, and her
contempt for his intelligence was almost as profound as his own belief in its superiority over
that of other men.

These facts explain why Pina acted as she did, though they could not possibly excuse her evil
conduct in the eyes of righteous persons like the Senator and others of his class, who would
have thought it a monstrous and unnatural thing that a noble Venetian girl should fall in love
with a music-master, though he were the most talented and famous musician of his day.

This was what Pina did. In the middle of the fourth lesson she deliberately laid aside her
lace-pillow and left the room, well knowing that her master would have her thrown out of the
house at once, and ducked in the canal besides, if he ever heard of it. But he was a man of
unchanging habits. Each time that Stradella came he led him in, sat down, listened while Ortensia
sang one of his own pieces, and then went away, not to return that morning. So when Pina was
quite sure that his coming and going had settled to a habit, she boldly ran the risk, if it
was one, and left the two together.

Alessandro Stradella was a Sicilian on both sides, though he had been born in Naples, and he
wasted no time when his chance came. He tried no little trick of word or glance, he did not
gaze into Ortensia's eyes and sigh, still less did he boldly try to take her hand and pour
out a fervid declaration of his love; for by this time, without the exchange of a word, the
girl had taken hold of his heart, and he saw her eyes before him everywhere, in the sunlit
streets and canals, and at night, in the dark, and in his dreams.

He did none of these things. He was the master singer of his age, and he himself had made divine
melodies that still live; he knew his power, and he trusted to that alone. The velvet curtain
had scarcely fallen behind Pina as she went out, when he bent over his lute, and with one look
at Ortensia began to sing. But it was not one of those ninety-seven compositions on which the
Senator prided himself: it was a love-song of Stradella's own that he had made within the week
in the secrecy of his own room, and no one had heard it yet; and it was his masterpiece.

Ortensia felt that it was hers. That strange voice of his that was not deep, yet never seemed
high-pitched, breathed softly through and through her being, as a spring breeze through young
leaves, more felt than heard, yet a wonder to hear. The notes vibrated, but did not tremble;
they swelled and grew strong and rang out fiercely, but were never loud; and again they died
away, but were not quite silent, and lingered musically in the air, though a whisper would
have drowned them.

The girl's eyes grew dark under their drooping lids, and her face was luminously pale; her
delicate young lips moved now and then unconsciously, and they were icy cold; but she felt
a wild pulse beating at her throat, as if her heart were there and breaking to be free.

She felt his look on her too, but she could not answer it, and when the song ended she turned
from him and laid her white cheek against the high back of the chair, looking out at the cypress
against the sky. She could not tell whether it was pain or pleasure she felt, but it was almost
more than she could bear, and her hands strained upon each other, clasped together just on
her two knees.

In the silence the velvet curtain was lifted and fell again, and Pina's step was heard on the
marble floor.

'I have brought you some water to drink,' said the nurse quietly; and speaking to both, 'Your
throats must be dry with so much singing!'

Ortensia took one of the tall glasses and drank eagerly before she turned her face from the window.

'Thank you,' she said, recovering herself and smiling at Pina.

'And you, Maestro?' asked the latter, offering Stradella the drink.

'Thank you,' he said, 'but it is too much. With your permission!'

And then, with the effrontery of youth in love, he deliberately took the almost empty glass
from which Ortensia had drunk, poured a little into it from the other, and drank out of it
with a look of undisguised gratitude on his handsome face. Thereupon a little colour came to
Ortensia's ivory-pale cheek, and Pina smiled pleasantly. Instead of setting down the salver,
however, she took it away, leaving the room again.

'How beautiful that song is!' Ortensia said in a low voice, and glancing at Stradella almost
timidly, when they were again alone. 'How more than beautiful!'

'It is yours,' answered the musician. 'I made it for you--it is not even written down yet.'

'For me!' The exquisite colour deepened twice in her face and faded again as her heart fluttered.

'For you,' Stradella answered, so softly that she barely heard.

The nurse came back just then, having merely left the salver outside to be taken away. In her
judgment things had gone far enough for the present. Then the mid-day bells clanged out, and
it was time to end the lesson, and Stradella put his lute into its purple bag and bowed himself
out as he always did; but to-day he kept his eyes on Ortensia's, and hers did not turn from
him while she could see his face.

CHAPTER II

Love-dealings and Deceit, says an ancient poet, were born into the world together, daughters
of Night; and several dry-hearted old critics, who never were in love and perhaps never deceived
anybody in their lives, have had so much trouble in understanding why these divinities should
have made their appearance in the world at the same time, that they have suspected the passage
and written pages of learned trash about what Hesiod probably wrote instead of 'Love-dealings,'
or the pretty word for which I can think of no better translation.

Pignaver was not a particularly truthful person himself, but he exacted strict truthfulness
from others, which is good business if it is bad morality; and Ortensia had been brought up
rigidly in the practice of veracity as a prime virtue. She had not hitherto been tempted to
tell fibs, indeed; but she had always looked upon doing so as a great sin, which, if committed,
would require penance.

Yet no sooner had she fallen in love with Alessandro Stradella than she found herself telling
the most glaring untruths every day, with a readiness and self-possession that were nothing
short of terrifying. For instance, her uncle often asked her to tell him exactly what she had
been studying with the music-master, and he inquired especially whether the latter ever sang
any of his own music to her. To these questions she answered that she was too anxious to profit
by the lessons she was receiving, through her uncle's kindness, to waste the precious time
in which she might be studying his immortal works.

She used those very words, without a blink, and Pignaver swallowed the flattery as a dog bolts
a gobbet of meat. She added that the Maestro himself was so enthusiastic about the Senator's
songs that he now cared for nothing else.

Yet the truth was that Stradella had summed up his criticism in a few words.

'They are all so much alike that they almost produce the impression of having been written
by the same person.'

That was what he had really said, and Ortensia had laughed sweetly and cruelly; and even Pina,
busy with her lace-pillow, had smiled with evil satisfaction in her corner, for she was a clever
woman, who had been educated above her present station, and she understood.

Further, the Senator asked whether Stradella ever attempted to enter into conversation with
his pupil, between one piece of music and the next.

'Conversation!' cried the young girl indignantly. 'He would not dare!'

If Pignaver noticed the slight blush that came with the words, he set it down to just anger
at the mere suggestion that his future wife could stoop to talk with a music-master. Yet, being
of a suspicious nature, he also made inquiries of Pina, whom he unwisely trusted even more
than Ortensia herself.

'Conversation, Excellency? Your Excellency's niece in conversation with a fiddler, a public
singer, a creature little better than a mountebank! My lady Ortensia would as soon talk with
a footman! Shame, my lord! The suspicion is unworthy! I would scarcely answer to the young
man himself, if he spoke to me, though I am only a poor servant! A fiddler, indeed! A lute-strummer,
a catgut-pincher, and a Neapolitan into the bargain!'

Thus did Pina express herself, and while her rather hard grey eyes seemed to flash with anger,
her mouth, that had once been handsome, curved in lines of scorn that were almost aristocratic.

It is as easy to deceive a very vain person in matters where vanity has a part to play as it
is to cheat a blind man, and Pignaver was hoodwinked without difficulty by his niece and her
nurse, and the love that had sprung up between the two young people almost at first sight grew
at an amazing rate while they sang and looked at one another over their lutes.

But the first word had not been spoken yet, though it had been sung many times by both, separately
and together. It was not that Stradella doubted how it would be received, if he spoke it when
Pina was out of the room, nor was Ortensia not eager for it long before it came. Yet she could
not be the first, and he would not, for reasons she understood so little that at last she began
to resent his silence as if it were a slight. Few Italian girls of her age have ever known
that sensation, which is familiar enough to many women of the world.

Stradella found himself faced by a most unexpected circumstance. He was not only in love; that
had happened to him at regular intervals ever since he had been barely fourteen years old,
when a beautiful Neapolitan princess heard him sing and threw her magnificent arms round his
neck, kissing him, and laughing when he kissed her in return; and she had made him the spoilt
darling of her villa at Posilippo for more than three weeks.

Since then he had regarded his love affairs very much as he looked upon the weather, as an
irregular succession of fine days, dark days, and stormy days. When he was happily in love,
it was a fine day; when unhappily, it was stormy; when not at all, it was dull--very dull.
But hitherto it had never occurred to him that any one of the three conditions could last.
Like Goethe, he had never begun a love-affair without instinctively foreseeing the end, and
hoping that it might be painless.

But to his amazement, though he had been prepared to be as cheerfully cynical and as keen after
enjoyment as usual, he now felt, almost from the first, that there was no end in sight, or
even to be imagined. The beginnings had not been new to him; it was not the first time that
beauty had stirred his pulse, or that a face had awakened sympathy in that romantic region
of feeling between heart and soul which is as far above the brute animal as it is below the
pure spirit. Before now his voice had brought fire to a woman's eyes, and her lips had parted
with unspoken promises of delight. That was what had happened on the first day when Pina had
left him alone with Ortensia and he had sung to her; that had all been normal and natural,
and only not dull because the fountain of youth was full and overflowing; that might have happened
to any man between twenty and thirty.

He had gone away light-hearted after the first lesson, with music in his heart and ears. Was
not every beginning of new love a spring that promised summer, and sometimes a rich autumn
too, all in a few weeks, and with only a dull day or two to follow at the end, instead of winter?

But the next time he saw Ortensia it was a little different, and after that the difference
became greater, and at last very great indeed, till he no longer recognised the familiar turnings
in light love's short path, and the pretty flowers he had so often plucked by the way did not
grow on each side within easy reach, and the fruit of the garden seemed endlessly far away,
though he knew it was hidden somewhere, far sweeter than any he had tasted yet. For it was
a maiden's garden in which no man had trod before; and the maiden was of high degree, and could
not wander along the path with him, yielding her will to his.

His light-heartedness left him then, his face grew grave, and his temper became melancholy,
for the first time in his life. He was only to give her a few lessons, after all, and Pina
would leave him with her for ten minutes, scarcely more, each time he came. One minute would
be enough, it was true; if he spoke she would listen, if he took her hand she would let him
hold it. But what would be the end of that? A kiss or two, and nothing more. When the lessons
were finished he would be told by the Senator that his teaching was no longer needed, and after
that there would be nothing. He might see her once a week in her gondola, at a little distance;
but as for ever being alone with her again in his life for five minutes, that would be out
of the question. Could he, a musician and an artist, a man sprung from the people, even think
of aspiring to the hand of a Venetian senator's niece? In those days the idea was ludicrous.
And as for her, though she might be in love with him--and he felt that she was--would she entertain
for a moment the idea of escaping from her uncle's house, from Venice, to join her lot with
a wandering singer's? That was still greater nonsense, he thought. Then what could come of
it all but a cruel parting and a heartache, since this was real love and could not end in a
laugh, like the lighter sort he had known so well? She was a mere child yet, she would forget
in a few weeks; and he was a grown man, who had seen the world, and could doubtless forget
if he chose, provided there were never anything to be forgotten beyond what there was already.

But if he should speak to her in one of those short intervals when they were alone, if she
stretched out her hand, if he clasped her to him, if their lips met, things would not end so
easily nor be so soon forgotten. He had the careless knowledge of himself that many gifted
men have even when they are still very young; he knew how far he could answer for his own coolness
and sense, and that if he allowed himself to cross the limit he would behave like a madman
and perhaps like a criminal.

Therefore he set himself to be prudent till the lessons should be over, and he even thought
of ending them abruptly and leaving Venice. His acquaintance with Ortensia would always be
a beautiful recollection in his life, he thought, and one in which there could be no element
of remorse or bitterness. He was not a libertine. Few great artists have ever been that; for
in every great painter, or sculptor, or musician there is a poet, and true poetry is the refutation
of vulgar materialism. In all the nobler arts the second-rate men have invariably been the
sensualists; but the masters, even in their love affairs, have always hankered after an ideal,
and have sometimes found it.

When the Senator ushered in Stradella one morning and quietly announced that the lesson was
to be the last, Ortensia felt faint, and turned her back quite to the open window, against
the light, so that the two men could not see how she changed colour. The nurse's hard grey
eyes scrutinised Pignaver's face for an instant, and then turned to Stradella; he was paler
than usual, but grave and collected, for the Senator had already informed him that his services
would be no longer needed after that day.

Everything was to take place as usual. As usual, Ortensia was to sing one of her uncle's ninety-seven
compositions to him while Stradella accompanied her; as usual, Pignaver would then go away;
lastly, at the customary time, Pina would go out for ten minutes and reappear with water and
sherbet.

Ortensia was shaking with emotion when the ordeal began, and for a moment she felt that it
was hopeless to try to sing. Some sharp discordant sound would surely break from her lips,
and she would faint outright in her misery.

She was on the very point of saying that she felt a sudden hoarseness, or was taken ill, when
her pride awoke in a flash with a strength that amazed her, the more because she had never
dreamed she had any of that sort. Stradella should not guess that she was hurt; she would rather
die than let him know that her heart was breaking; more than that, she would break his, if
there was time, and if she could!

She stood up by her chair and sang far better than she had ever sung before in Pignaver's hearing;
she threw life and fire and passion into his mild composition, and she remembered every effective
little trick Stradella had taught her for improving the dull melody and for emphasising the
commonplace verses it was meant to adorn.

The Senator was surprised and delighted, and Stradella softly clapped his hands. She hated
him for applauding her, yet she was pleased with the applause.

'What music, eh?' cried the Senator, with a grin of satisfied vanity.

'It is music indeed!' answered Stradella with a grave emphasis that gave the words great weight.
'It has been my endeavour to do justice to it, in instructing your gifted niece.'

'You have succeeded very well, dear Maestro,' Pignaver answered with immense condescension.
'The world will be much your debtor when it hears my melodies so charmingly sung!'

With this elephantine compliment the Senator nodded in a patronising way and took himself off,
while Stradella bowed politely at his departing back.

When the curtain fell before the door, the singer turned to his pupil and sat down in his accustomed
seat, with great apparent self-possession. Ortensia watched him, and her new-born resentment
increased quickly.

'What will it please you to study to-day?' he inquired, just as easily as if it were not the
very last time.

She felt much inclined to answer 'Nothing,' and to turn her back on him, but somehow her pride
found a voice for her, as indifferent as his own, though she avoided his eyes and looked out
of the window.

'It does not matter which song we take,' she answered. 'They are very much alike, as you have
often said!' She even laughed, quite lightly and carelessly.

It was his turn to be surprised. Her tone was as natural and unstrained as a child's. At the
sound of it, he asked himself whether this slip of a thing of seventeen years had not been
acting emotions she had not felt, and laughing at him while he had been singing his heart out
to her. Any clever girl could twist herself on her chair, and lay her cheek to the back of
it, turning away as if she were really suffering, and twining her hands together till the little
joints strained and turned even whiter than the fingers themselves.

At the thought that she had perhaps made a fool of him, Stradella nearly laughed, and he came
near being cured then and there of his latest and most serious love-sickness. His lute was
lying on his knees; he began to strum the opening chords of Pignaver's dullest composition,
in the dull mechanical way the music deserved. He thought the effect might be to make Ortensia
laugh and to change her mood.

But, to his annoyance, she rose, laid one hand on the back of the chair, and proceeded to sing
the song with the greatest care for details, though by no means with the dashing spirit that
had made him applaud her first performance that morning. She was evidently singing for study,
as if she meant to profit by his teaching to the very last moment.

He accompanied her mechanically, wondering what was going to happen next, and when she had
finished he eyed her with curiosity, but said nothing. She seemed completely changed.

'Why do you look at me in that way?' she asked with great calmness. 'Did I make any bad mistake?'

He smiled, but not very gaily.

'No,' he answered, 'you made no mistakes at all. You are admirable to-day! I quite understand
that my services are no longer needed, for I can teach you nothing more!'

'I have done my best to improve under your instructions,' answered Ortensia primly.

She rested both her elbows on the back of the chair now and looked calmly out of the window
at her favourite tree. Stradella pretended that his lute needed tuning, turned a peg or two
and then turned each back again, and struck idle chords.

'When you are rested,' he said, 'I am at your service for another song.'

'I am ready,' Ortensia answered with a calmness quite equal to his own.

Pina, watching them from a distance and neglecting her lace-pillow, saw that something was
the matter, and got up to leave the room at least half-an-hour earlier than usual; but because
the Senator might come back unexpectedly during this last lesson, she went out through the
other door beyond which a broad corridor led to his own apartments, and she stood where she
could not fail to hear his steps in the distance if he should return.

Ortensia was still standing by her chair when Stradella left his seat and came towards her,
holding his lute in one hand. It did not suit his male dignity to take leave of her without
finding out whether she had been playing with him or not, though half-an-hour earlier he would
not have believed it possible that vanity could enter into any thought he had of her.

He stood quite near her, and she met his eyes; she was rather frightened by his sudden advance,
and shrank back behind the chair.

'You will find me in your loggia to-night, outside that window,' he said, pointing as he spoke.
'I shall be there an hour before midnight, and I shall wait till it is almost dawn.'

He paused, keeping his eyes on hers. She had started back at the first words, and now a deep
colour had risen in her cheeks; he could not tell whether it meant anger or pleasure.

'I shall be there,' he repeated; 'I shall be there to say good-bye, if you will have it so,
or to come again if you will. But if you do not open the window, I will come twice again at
the same hour, to-morrow and the night after that, and wait for you till dawn.'

Ortensia turned from him without speaking and went out into the covered loggia. It was her
instinct to look at the place where he was to be, and for the moment she could not answer him,
for she did not know what to say; she herself could not have told whether she was angry or
pleased, she only felt that something new was happening to her. Her mood had changed again
in a few seconds.

He followed her to the threshold of the window, and stood behind her in the flood of sunshine,
so near that he could whisper in her ear and be heard.

'There is love between us,' he said. 'We have seen it in each other's eyes ever since we first
met, we have heard it in one another's voices every day! I will not leave you without saying
it for us both, just as much for you as for myself! But I must say it all many times, and I
must hear it from you too. Therefore I shall be here an hour before midnight to wait, and you
will come, and you will open the window when you see me standing outside, and we shall be together!
And if you will, we need never part again, for the world is as wide as heaven itself, for those
who love to find a safe resting-place.'

She raised one hand as if to stop him, without turning round. While he spoke, she had turned
pale again by soft degrees, and she drew her breath sharply once or twice, with an effort.
He caught the hand she put out and kissed it slowly three times, as if he would leave the print
of his young lips on the smooth white skin for a memory. She let him have his way, though she
shook her head, and would not turn to him.

He was so near her that he could have bent and kissed her, just above the broad lace collar,
behind her little ear, where the strong auburn hair sprang in silken waves from the ivory of
her neck. The scent of lavender and violets rose from her dress to his nostrils in the warmth.

'You will come,' he whispered.

'How can I?' she asked, very low.

Then they heard Pina's voice behind them, not loud, but sharp and imperative.

'The Senator is coming back!' she called to them, as she dropped the curtain after entering
and hastened to her seat.

Stradella crossed to the other side of the window in an instant, raising the lute he still
carried in one hand.

'Sing!' he commanded, and he was already playing the accompaniment to one of Pignaver's everlasting
songs.

As pride had helped her before, sheer desperation strengthened her now, and, without moving
from her place, she began to sing, not very steadily at first, for her heart was beating terribly
fast, but carefully, as if she were studying.

A moment later Pignaver noiselessly lifted the velvet curtain and looked in, confident that
he had surprised them, and perfectly satisfied with the result. Beyond the fact that they were
standing in the sunshine to sing and play, on opposite sides of the great window, everything
was precisely as he had expected. When the song was ended, he revealed his presence by a word
of approbation, and he installed himself to hear the rest of the lesson. When it was over,
he himself accompanied Stradella to the stairs.

CHAPTER III

Ortensia heard the bells strike midnight. She was lying on her back, her eyes wide open, and
staring at the rosette in the middle of the pink canopy over her head. She could see it plainly
by the dim light of the tiny oil-lamp that hung above the kneeling-stool at which she said
her prayers. She had said them with great fervour to-night, and had gone to bed with the firm
intention of repeating the last one over and over to herself till she fell asleep.

But in this she had not succeeded. She had heard the bells at eleven o'clock and had been wide
awake; at that moment Stradella was stepping over the marble balustrade into the loggia. She
tried to say her prayer again, but it was of no use at all; she knew that he was standing there
just outside the great closed window, waiting, and that to see him she had only to pass through
her dressing-room, where Pina slept on a trestle-bed, which was taken away every morning. There
was only one door to Ortensia's bedroom, which was the last on that floor of the house; for
it was proper that a noble Venetian girl should be safely guarded, and every night the Senator
locked both the outer doors of the sitting-room where she had her lessons, and he kept the
key under his pillow. Pina and Ortensia were in prison together from ten o'clock at night till
seven every morning, and the girl could not leave her own room without passing Pina.

To the Senator's insufficient imagination two things were out of the question; he was convinced
that no one could get up into the loggia from below, and he was persuaded that Pina, unswerving
in her devotion to his interests and honour, would guard Ortensia as jealously as the dragon
guarded the Golden Fleece. Moreover, as to getting in by the window, a man would first have
to get access to the walled garden below, which Pignaver regarded as another impossibility,
for the wall was high, he himself kept the key of the postern that opened on the canal, and
the gardener entered through the house.

Nevertheless Stradella was standing in the loggia at eleven o'clock; Ortensia was sure he was
there, and at midnight she was still lying on her back, staring up at the canopy, with outstretched
hands that clutched the edges of the bed on each side. Her idea of what was possible was quite
different from her uncle's; the one thing which seemed to her out of the question was that
she should lie where she was much longer, and she only succeeded by giving herself the illusion
that her own hands held her down by main force. By and by they would be tired, she supposed,
and then she would have to go to him.

She held fast and listened, hoping to hear the bells again, as if an hour could slip by as
in a moment while she was awake; and suddenly she started, and one hand left its hold, for
she heard a noise at her own window, a sharp tap, followed by another and another. Then there
came a sharp rattling, and she knew that it was only raining, and tried to laugh at herself.
The first big drops of the squall had struck the panes like little pebbles. Her hand went down
to the edge of the bed again and clutched the mattress desperately, while she listened.

He was in the loggia, and the rain was driving in upon him as it was driving against her window.
He would not move; he would wait there in the wet till dawn, for he had said so and she believed
him. It was hard to hold herself down now, knowing that he was being wet through. He must have
left his cloak behind, too, for he could not have been able to climb if hampered by the folds.

It was pouring now, and there was wind with the rain, since otherwise it could not have made
such a noise against the glass. She had often stood inside the closed window of the sitting-room
when it was raining from the same quarter, and she had seen how the gusts drove the water in
sheets against the panes, till it ran down and made a river along the loggia and boiled at
the grated gutter-sinks through which it ran off. He was perhaps nearly up to his ankles in
the little flood by this time, but he would not go away for that. She knew he would wait.

Her hands let go and she was suddenly sitting on the edge of the bed, feeling for her slippers
with her bare feet; with bare arms raised, she instinctively put up both hands to her hair
at the same time, to be sure that it would not come down, for Pina always did it up at night
in a thick coil on the top of her head.

She heard the rain even more distinctly now; it was coming down in torrents. She looked up
at the little lamp burning quietly before Robbia's blue and white bas-relief of the infant
Christ, and she thought of her prayers again; but it was positively wicked to let any one stand
outside in the rain for hours, to catch his death of cold.

She slipped a silk skirt over her thin night-dress and put on her fur-edged dressing-gown over
that, for those were the days of wonderful dressing-gowns, quilted with down, bordered with
sable or ermine, and trimmed with lace. She drew the cords tightly round her slim waist, and
she was ready.

For a moment she hesitated; there was no night-light where Pina slept, nor in the day-room
beyond; the stormy night must be so dark that she would not be able to find her way to the
windows. That thought decided her, and she stopped to light a small hand-lamp. Then she cautiously
opened the door, shaded the flame from Pina's face with one hand, and passed quickly through
the dressing-room. The nurse lay in her trestle-bed, well covered up, and did not move, and
Ortensia shut the next door noiselessly.

She hastened to the window, and when she got there she started; his dripping face was flattened
against the pane, so white and ghostly that it was like a vision of him dead, but his eyes
were alive and were watching her, and when she was quite near the window he smiled. She set
down her lamp on the floor at a little distance and began to undo the fastenings with the greatest
caution, fearing to make any noise; but as soon as the bolt was drawn the wind forced the frame
open so violently that it almost knocked her down. Stradella sprang in with the driving wet
and only succeeded in shutting the window after several efforts, during which the lamp was
almost blown out.

He stood before her then bare-headed, and the water ran down upon the marble floor from his
drenched clothes. He had neither hat nor cloak, and his dark hair was matted with the rain;
but his face was radiant.

'You are frozen! you are soaked through and through!' she cried anxiously. 'You will get an
illness, and I can do nothing! There is not even a little wine here to warm you.'

He smiled and shook his head.

'Never mind me,' he answered. 'Or let me take your hand in mine for a moment and the chill
will pass!'

He put out his own, and when she felt that it was cold and wet, she took it in both of hers
and tried to dry it, and chafed it between her palms, till he drew it away rather suddenly
with a low laugh.

'Thank you,' he said. 'That is enough!'

'No, let me warm it better, or give me the other!'

'There is too much fire in your touch,' he answered. 'It burns through cold and wet. It would
burn through ice itself!'

His tone made her forget her first anxiety for him; but she felt that she must explain why
she was there, if only to quiet her own conscience.

'I would not have come if it had not rained,' she said, avoiding his eyes, 'and now I must
not stay with you. As soon as it stops you must let yourself out and go away. It was only when
I heard the rain----'

'Blessings on the rain!' answered Stradella devoutly. 'I never loved it before!'

'You should not have come on such a night--I mean----'

She stopped and he saw her blush in the faint light that came up from the lamp on the floor.

'I had no choice, since I had promised,' he answered. 'And I promise you I will come to-morrow
again----'

'Oh, do not promise--please!' She seemed distressed.

'Yes, I will come to-morrow and every night, until you come away with me. I will bring you
a disguise in which you can travel safely till we are over the Venetian border and free.'

'But I cannot--I will not!' she protested. 'You speak as if--as if----'

'As if we loved each other, heart and soul, for life or death,' he said, not letting her go
on, and taking her hand again. 'I speak as if we had been born into the world only for that,
to love and live and die together! As if there were no woman for me but you in all the earth,
and no man for you but me! As if our lips had promised and had met!'

She was drinking his words, and her eyes were in his as he bent to her face. But then she started,
in returning consciousness, and tried to draw back.

'No, no!' she cried, in sudden maiden distress. 'Not yet! It is too soon!'

He drew her nearer to him in spite of herself, with both her hands in his, till he could speak
close to her ear.

'Tell me you do not love me, love! Tell me you will not feel one little regret if you never
see me again! Come, say it in my ear, sweetheart! Say that if I fall and am killed in climbing
down when I leave you, it will make no more difference to you than if a dog were drowned in
the canal! Is it not true, dear? Then say it quickly! Only whisper it in my ear, and I will
go away and never come back. But you must say it----'

'Yes--please go!' she answered faintly. 'Go at once----'

'No, you must say the rest first,' he insisted, and his lips were almost touching her ear.
'Say it after me: "I hate you, I despise you, I loathe you, I do not care whether you live
or die." Why do you not begin to repeat the words, heart of my heart?'

She turned suddenly in his hold, holding her head far back, wide-eyed and very pale. But she
could not speak, or would not, foreknowing what must happen now that had never happened to
her before.

He smiled faintly, and when he spoke again it was a sweet breath she felt, rather than a sound
that reached her ear.

'Will you not say it?' he said, and his face came slowly nearer to hers. 'Would it not be true?
No? Then say "I love you, love," or speak no word aloud but let your lips make syllables on
mine, and, like the blind, the touch will tell me what you say.'

Her eyes closed of themselves, the speaking breath came nearer, and then, as lightning flashes
through a summer's night, flame ran from her lips to her feet, and to her heart from her hands
that lay in his and felt his life stirring.

It was innocent enough, a girl's first love-kiss, and the kiss of a man who loved in earnest
for the first time, but it seemed a great and a fearful thing to her, irrevocable as lost innocence
itself; and he, whose masculine light-heartedness made not much of mere kisses, and laughed
at the thought that love could do much wrong, felt that he had given a pledge he must redeem
and a promise he must honourably keep.

It was innocent enough. He held her by the hands as he bent and kissed her, for the water was
still trickling down his drenched clothes, and her pretty dressing-gown would have been spoiled
if he had even put one arm round her waist. There was a dash of the ridiculous in that, which
would have made them both laugh if they had not been so simply and utterly in earnest. And
then when he let her hands go and she sank upon a chair, he could not even sit down beside
her, because the velvet seat would have been ruined. So he stood bolt upright in the midst
of the little puddle the water had made round his feet.

She covered her face with her hands for a moment, not in any shame, but trying to make herself
think.

'You must go now,' she said presently, looking up at him. 'It is enough to make the strongest
man fall ill, to be drenched as you are. You will lose your voice----'

'What does that matter, if I have found you?' he asked. 'But I will do as you wish, for it
has stopped raining at last, and it is growing late--you will lose half your sleep to-night.'

'Or all of it!' she answered softly, thinking of his kiss. 'How did you get up to the loggia?
Have you a ladder?'

He had none. He had got over the outer wall by means of a rope with a grappling-hook fastened
to it, which he had thrown up from the canal. Thence he had reached the loggia without much
difficulty, for in the short intervals during the lessons he had more than once looked down
and had seen that it was quite possible, and more a question of steady nerves than of great
strength and activity. At the level of the loggia a stone ledge ran round the palace, and along
this it was easy to creep on hands and knees. He had drawn himself up to it from the top of
the wall, which joined the building at the corner of the garden.

'It is easy enough,' Stradella answered. 'And now good-bye. To-morrow night again, love, an
hour before midnight.'

She rose and they joined hands again.

'I ought to tell you not to come,' she said in a weak voice, like a child's. 'But how can I
say it--now--now that----'

If any other word would have followed, it could not. Once more her closed eyes saw sweet summer
lightnings, and the thrill of the flame ran from her lips through every vital part.

He turned from her at last to unfasten the window, and for a moment she was too dazed to stop
him, though she would have kept him still. Then she tried to follow him out into the loggia,
but he would not let her.

'No, love,' he said, 'your wet shoes would tell tales.'

'But there is danger!' answered Ortensia, holding him by his drenched sleeve. 'I must know
you are safe!'

'When I reach my boat I will whistle softly,' he said.

He was gone in the dark, and she was listening by the open window, her heart beating so that
it seemed as if it must drown any other sound. But he made no noise as he crept along the ledge
to the corner, and then cautiously let himself down upon the top of the wall, dropping astride
of it then to pull himself along in that position by his hands till he found the grappling-hook
of his rope. The wall rose perpendicularly from the canal, and he had moored his little skiff
to the only ring he could find at the base of it, some distance from the corner.

Ortensia listened anxiously for the promised signal, and peered into the darkness, her hand
on the window, ready to close it as soon as she knew he was safe.

But suddenly she heard the sound of oars striking the water, and a yellow glare rose above
the wall from the other side.

'Who goes there?' asked a deep voice.

No one answered, but instantly there was a heavy splash, as of a body falling into the canal.

Half-an-hour later Ortensia was lying on her back again, staring up at the rosette in the canopy.
But her face was distorted with horror now, and was whiter than the pillow itself.

In the day-room, by the light of Ortensia's little lamp, Pina was on her knees, carefully mopping
up the water that had run down from Stradella's clothes, and drying the marble floor.

CHAPTER IV

Soon after sunrise the Senator came and unlocked the doors of Ortensia's day-room. That had
always been his custom, for he kept the key under his pillow, as has been said, and he would
as soon have thought of sending a servant to liberate the girl and the woman in the morning
as of letting any one but himself lock them in at night.

'The master's eye fattens the horse,' he said to himself, quoting a Spanish proverb without
much regard for metaphors.

It was his wont to open the door, and to look into the large room before going away, for he
was sure that his eye would at once detect the slightest disarrangement of the furniture, or
anything else unusual which might warrant suspicion.

But this morning he did more: he entered the room, shut the door behind him and looked about.
He went to the window and examined the fastenings carefully, opened it wide, went out into
the loggia and looked down into the garden. Everything was in order there, not one flower-pot
had been upset by the squall, not a branch of the cypress-tree was broken or even bent.

Then he came in again and tapped sharply at the door of the dressing-room where Pina slept.
She appeared instantly, already dressed; but she laid one finger on her lips, to keep him silent,
and came out into the room before she spoke.

She said that Ortensia had been kept awake half the night by the storm, and was now sound asleep.

'A thief tried to get into the house after midnight,' said Pignaver. 'Did you hear any noise?'

'I should think I did!' cried Pina promptly. 'I was going to tell your lordship of it. I was
up with the young lady, and when the first squall was over and she was more quiet, I thought
I would just come in here to see if any water had run in under the window as it sometimes does.
Just then I saw a glare of light beyond the garden wall, and I opened the window at once and
heard the Signor of the Night challenging a thief, and directly afterwards there was a splash
in the canal, and then silence, and the light went away slowly. I hope the man was drowned,
my lord!'

While she was speaking, Pignaver had nodded repeatedly, for her little story bore the stamp
of truth.

'I grieve to say that the villain got away,' he answered. 'At daybreak an officer from the
Signors of the Night was waiting downstairs to inform me of the attempt. The Signors' boat
searched the canal for the body of the man during more than an hour, but found nothing. He
must have been on the garden wall when he was seen, and he threw himself into the water to
escape, leaving the rope by which he had climbed up.'

'Mercy!' cried Pina. 'We might have all been murdered in our beds!'

'No one shall get upon that wall again,' answered the master of the house. 'I will have the
coping stuck full of broken glass from end to end before night.'

'Would it not be well to set a watch in the garden, too, my lord? We should sleep soundly then!'

'We shall see, we shall see,' answered Pignaver, repeating the words slowly, as he went off.
'We shall see,' he said once more, as he went out.

As soon as he was gone, Pina hastened to Ortensia's room.

'He is safe!' she cried as she entered. 'They searched the canal for a whole hour, and could
not find him!'

Ortensia uttered a little cry and sat up in bed suddenly; but she could scarcely believe the
news, till Pina had repeated all that the Senator had said. When she heard that the wall was
to be crowned with broken glass, however, her face fell, for she saw in a flash of imagination
how Stradella would climb up confidently in the dark and would cut his hand to the bone when
he grasped the jagged points on the top.

'You must warn him!' cried Ortensia. 'You must go out and find him, and tell him not to come
again!'

'I will find him,' answered Pina.

They had never spoken of Stradella before the night that was just past. Day after day, while
the lessons were going on, Pina had left the two together, and Ortensia had silently accepted
the nurse's conduct without understanding its cause; she was too proud to speak of it when
they were together, or too shy, but she was sure from the first that Pina would stand by her,
though it was the woman's sole business never to let her be out of her sight for a moment.

'And what shall I tell him?' Pina asked. 'What message shall he have from you? I will faithfully
deliver your words.'

Ortensia covered her eyes with one hand, leaning on the other behind her, to steady herself
as she sat up.

'Tell him that--that we must wait--and hope----'

'For what?' asked Pina bluntly. 'For the end of the world?'

Ortensia uncovered her eyes and looked up, surprised at the change of tone.

'Will you wait till you are the Senator's wife?' Pina asked, her grey eyes hardening suddenly.
'Will you hope that by that time the broken glass on the wall will have softened in the rain
till it will not cut his hands? Or that you will be more free when you are married? You will
not be. That is not the way in Venice. I am a serving-woman, and, besides, I am neither young
nor pretty--I was once!--so I may go and come on your business and walk alone from the Piazza
to Santa Maria dell' Orto. But you noble ladies, you are born in a cage, you live in bondage,
and you die in prison! Will you wait? Will you hope? What for?'

'What do you mean?' asked Ortensia in a frightened voice. 'Am I never to see him again? Is
my message to him to be a good-bye?'

'Good-bye is easily said,' Pina answered, shaking her head enigmatically.

The young girl let herself sink back on her pillow, and turned her face against her bare arm,
so that at least her eyes were hidden from the nurse.

'I cannot!' she whispered to herself, drawing a breath that almost choked her.

'Yes,' Pina repeated harshly, 'it is easy to say farewell; and as for any hope after that,
the devil lends it us at usury, and if we cannot pay on the day of reckoning he takes possession!'

'What cruel things you say!' Ortensia cried in a half-broken tone, turning her head slowly
from side to side, with her face hidden in the soft hollow of her elbow.

'What hope will there be for you, child, when you are your uncle's wife? The hope of dying
young--that is all the hope you will have left!'

The woman laughed bitterly, and Ortensia felt that she was going to cry, or wished that she
could, she was not quite sure which.

'Therefore I say it is folly to send a man such a message. "Wait and hope," indeed! How long?
His lifetime? Yours? You are both young, and you may wait and hope fifty years, till your hair
and teeth fall out, and you discover that there is nothing in hope after all! Better say good-bye
outright, though it kill you! Better try and forget than make a martyrdom of remembering! Better
anything than hope!'

The grey-eyed woman's voice shook with an emotion which Ortensia could not have understood
if she had noticed it, for she was dreadfully miserable just then. Pina bent down over her,
smoothed her hair and patted her bare arm softly.

'Why hope for what you can take, if you have the courage?' she asked, dropping her voice to
a whisper, as she glanced behind her towards the door.

Ortensia lifted her head and looked up, her lips parting in surprise.

'Why should you waste time in waiting?' Pina asked, still whispering. 'That is the message
I would send if I were you,' she added. 'Shall I take it?'

'But how?--I do not understand--he cannot come to me here.'

'We can go to him,' answered the nurse. 'Is it not easy? The next time you confess at the Frari
he will meet us. It is simple enough. Two long brown cloaks with hoods, such as old women wear,
a few hundred yards to walk from the Frari to the Tolentini, his gondola there, and out by
Santa Chiara to the mainland and Padua--who shall catch us then? You are young and strong,
and I am tough; we shall not die of the fatigue; and by the next morning we shall all three
be out of Venetian territory. What is easier?'

Ortensia listened to this bold plan in silence, too much surprised to ask why Pina was so ready
to propose it, and a little frightened too, for she was a mere girl, and all the world beyond
Venice was a mysterious immensity of Cimmerian gloom in the midst of which little pools of
brilliant light marked the great and wonderful places she had heard described, such as Rome,
Florence, and Milan, and royal Paris, and imperial Vienna.

'But my uncle would send men after us,' Ortensia objected. 'The Council of Ten will do anything
he asks! They will give him soldiers, ships, anything! How can we possibly escape from him?
We shall be caught and brought back!'

Pina smiled at such fears.

'Beyond the Venetian border they can do nothing,' she said. 'Do we mean to rob the Senator
or murder him, that Venice should send an ambassador to claim us for trial under the laws of
the Republic? Is it a crime for young people to love, and to run away and marry?'

'You do not know how powerful my uncle is,' Ortensia said.

Pina's face changed at once, and her expression became stony and impenetrable.

'You are wrong,' she answered in a hard voice. 'I know he is powerful. But if you fear him,
as I do not, then wait and hope! Wait and hope!'

She laughed very strangely as she repeated the words, and her voice cracked on the last one,
with a discordant note that frightened Ortensia, who was weary and overwrought.

'What is it, Pina?' asked the young girl quickly. 'What has happened?'

The nurse was already herself again, and pretended to cough a little.

'It is nothing,' she said presently. 'Something in my throat, just as I was speaking. It often
happens. And as for what we were speaking of, there is no hurry. I will find the Maestro Alessandro
before noon, and warn him not to come near our garden wall again, and I will tell him from
you anything you wish, except that you do not care what becomes of him, for that would not
be true!'

She laughed again, but quite gently this time, and began to busy herself about the room, making
preparations for Ortensia to dress. The girl had laid her head on her pillow again, looking
up at the little pink silk rosette in the middle of the canopy, and she was sure that it had
a much less sad look now than it had worn in the small hours by the flickering night light.
This seemed quite natural to Ortensia, for the familiar little objects in a girl's own room
have a different expression for every hour of her life, to sympathise with each joy and sorrow,
great or small, and with every hope, and surprise, and disappointment.

But Ortensia herself could not have told what she felt just then, for it was a sensation of
startled unrest, in which great happiness and great fear were striving with each other to possess
her; and she knew that if she yielded to the fear, she would lose the happiness, but that if
she opened her heart to the happiness, the fear would at once become a terror so awful that
she must certainly die of it.

She did not ask why her nurse was so ready to help her to run away. The fact was enough. The
plan looked easy, and Stradella was the man to carry it out. She had only to consent, and in
a week, or less, all would be done, and she would be joined to him for ever. If she refused,
she must inevitably become the wife of Pignaver in a few months. She writhed on her pillow
at the mere thought.

Two hours later she was standing before the big open window, watching three masons who were
working on the top of the garden wall; they spread thick layers of stiff grey mortar over the
old coping, and then stuck in sharp bits of broken glass, patting and pressing down the cement
against each piece, to make the hold quite firm. The murderous splinters gleamed in the sunshine,
and the men set them so near together that one could hardly have laid a finger anywhere between
them.

Ortensia watched the work, and now and then she looked at the top of the cypress-tree, half-unconsciously
wondering how many days would pass before she saw it for the last time. But in the broad daylight
she lived over and over again every instant of that short night meeting that was the greatest
event in all her life. If she only drooped her lids a little she saw Stradella there before
her in his dripping clothes by the rays of the little lamp, his face was close to hers again,
her lips touched his, and a delicate thrill ran through all her body and reminded her faintly
but very sweetly of what she had felt when he kissed her.

Meanwhile, Pina had found the musician's lodging, near Santa Maria dell' Orto, which was a
long way from the Senator's palace, for that quarter lies on the extreme outer edge of Venice,
looking across the lagoon towards Murano. The door was opened for her by a hunchback, with
a large, intellectual face, beardless and strongly modelled, such a face as Giotto would have
taken as a model for a Doctor of the Church. The sad blue eyes looked up to Pina's with cold
gravity; but when she explained that she came from the Palazzo Pignaver with a message, they
brightened a little, and the man at once stood aside for her to enter.

She touched his hump lightly for luck in passing, as every Italian woman will to this day if
she finds herself close to a hunchback in the street, and this act is rarely resented. Pina
thought it a piece of unexampled good-fortune and of the best possible augury that the door
should have been opened by a 'bringer-of-fortune,' and the deformed servant smiled gently at
her touch, quite understanding. As he led the way in, after shutting the outer door, Pina saw
that nature had meant him for a man of large proportions, and that his short stature was chiefly
due to the terrible deformity of his back and chest, for his slightly bowed legs looked as
sturdy as a street porter's, and his powerful arms were so long that his hands swung well below
his knees when he walked. He wore plain brown clothes, and a broad white collar, and Pina,
who was observant, noticed the neatness of his dress.

Stradella received her with a politeness to which, as a serving-woman, she was little accustomed,
and he made her sit down in a comfortable chair before asking for news of Ortensia. He himself
was none the worse for his wetting. The hunchback waited a moment as if expecting some order,
but Stradella only nodded to him, and he went out.

'My young lady is well, and greets you, sir,' Pina said in answer to the Maestro's question,
when the door was shut. 'She bids you be warned and not try to climb the wall again, for it
is already being crowned with broken glass, which would cut your hands; and, moreover, the
Senator will probably set a watch in the garden, since you were fortunately mistaken for a
thief last night.'

Stradella listened to this business-like statement attentively, and watched Pina's face while
she was speaking. Her hard grey eyes met his with perfect frankness.

'I see that you know everything,' he said. 'Tell me, then, how can I see the lady Ortensia?
Surely you are not come to tell me that I am not to see her again.'

Pina unfolded her plan with a clearness and precision that first surprised him, and then roused
his suspicion. For a few moments after she had ceased speaking he was silent, and examined
his left hand with thoughtful interest, gently rubbing with his thumb the callous places made
on the tips of his fingers by playing on stringed instruments. The woman puzzled him, for he
understood well enough from her tone that she was not moved to help him merely by affection
for her mistress, and she could certainly not be supposed to be actuated by any sudden devotion
to himself. Besides, she must be aware that he was not a rich man, and could not requite with
any large sum of money such a service as she offered. Her motive was a mystery. At last he spoke.

'Listen to me,' he said, watching her eyes. 'Your plan is good, and perfectly feasible. If
you are in earnest, it can be carried out to-morrow, or whenever the lady Ortensia is ready.
I will reward you as well as I can, but you must remember that I am a poor musician and not
a Venetian senator----'

Pina's grey eyes were like steel, and her tone was cold, and not without a certain dignity.

'Have I asked money of you, sir?'

'Oh, no!' answered Stradella readily. 'I only wished----'

She interrupted him, as if she were his equal.

'Even a servant may love something better than a bribe!' she said.

'I beg your pardon,' Stradella found himself saying, a good deal to his own surprise, for he
had not expected to hurt a serving-woman's feelings by speaking of money. 'I misunderstood you.'

'You did indeed, sir!' answered Pina. 'All I ask of you is that you will take me with you in
your flight, for the Senator will certainly have me murdered if I am left behind. Afterwards,
if my lady does not want me, I will look for another place, or live by lace-making.'

Stradella did not like the answer. The Sicilian character has grave defects: it is revengeful,
over-proud, violent, and sometimes cruel; but it is generally truthful, and it is, above all,
direct.

'You talk lightly of leaving your mistress,' said the musician. 'It is not for love of her
that you are ready to help us.'

Pina faced him fearlessly.

'You are right,' she answered. 'And yet she is the one living being I love at all. Affection
is not the only motive one may have, sir.'

'Nor love of money either,' Stradella said thoughtfully. 'The third is hate. Last of all comes
charity!'

'I am not a saint, sir,' said Pina. 'So you are answered. I hate my master, and I have the
right to hate him. That is my affair. If I dared kill him, I would, but I should not have the
courage to bear being tortured if I were arrested and tried. I am only a woman, and I fear
bodily pain more than anything. That is why I did not kill the Senator twenty years ago.'

The musician watched the cold, resentful face that had once been so handsome, and though he
could not guess her story he partly understood her.

'You are frank,' he said. 'I see that you are in earnest, and that I can trust you.'

'Trust me for anything, sir, except to resist torture,' Pina answered. 'I know what it is,'
she added in a low voice, and avoiding his eyes as if she were suddenly ashamed. 'As for my
master,' she went on, turning to Stradella again a moment later, 'I believe he would rather
die than be made a laughing-stock. I know that he yesterday announced to his friends his betrothal
to his niece, which has been a secret for several weeks. I can hear the fine ladies and gentlemen
laughing at him when they learn that she has run away with her music-master on the eve of her
marriage! I can fancy the jests and the sarcasms the Senator will have to put up with!'

She laughed herself, rather savagely, and Stradella smiled. Provided he could carry off Ortensia,
he did not even object to becoming the instrument of a serving-woman's vengeance.

They agreed upon the details of the flight. On the next day but one, being the feast of one
of the many Franciscan saints, Stradella was to sing an air at Vespers in the Church of the
Frari. It was therefore arranged that Ortensia and Pina should go to the church at that hour
on pretence of confession. At the monument of Pietro Bernardini, near the main entrance, Stradella's
hunchback servant would be waiting for them with two brown cloaks and hoods, which they were
to put on immediately. They were then to kneel down quietly in the shadow and to wait till
Stradella had finished singing, when they were to leave the church without waiting for him;
his man would lead them through by-ways to the gondola, which was to wait on the farther side
of the Tolentini. Stradella himself would slip away from the loft as soon as the Benediction
began, after Vespers, just when all the other musicians would be very busy. He would probably
reach the gondola almost as soon as Ortensia and the two servants, and in five minutes they
would be well out of the city.

'And pray, sir,' asked Pina, 'what is your man's name?'

'Cucurullo,' Stradella answered.

'What a strange name!' Pina exclaimed.

'It is common enough in Naples.'

CHAPTER V

The Benediction was over, and the music had died away; the deep colours of the ancient windows
already blended into luminous purple stains, like red wine spilt on velvet just before dusk;
on the altar of the Sacrament and all about it hundreds of wax candles were burning steadily,
arranged in dazzling concentric rings and shining curves. A young Dominican monk had prostrated
himself before the shrine, a motionless figure, half kneeling and half lying on the steps.

The service was ended and the priests were gone. Some five hundred feet shuffled slowly away
from the blaze of light into the gloom and out through the western door, and the brighter part
of the church was already deserted; but the young monk remained motionless, prostrate upon
the steps.

Two men stood by the choir screen, the broad-brimmed black hats they held in their hands hanging
so low that the draggled feathers swept the pavement, their eyes directed towards the retiring
crowd. They were two shabby gentlemen of thirty years or under; though their clothes were not
yet actually torn or patched, most of their garments were already in that premonitory state
which warns the wearer of old breeches to sit down with deliberation and grace, rather than
with rash haste, and to make no uselessly quick movements whereby an old sewing may rip open,
or the silk or cloth itself may split and gape in an unseemly manner, furnishing a cause for
mirth in better-clad men.

These two poor gentlemen were very unlike in appearance, except as to their well-worn clothes
and in respect of their rapiers, which were so exactly similar that they might have been made
for a duelling pair. Each had a beautifully chiselled and polished bell-guard, with the Italian
cross-bar for the middle finger; each was sheathed in a good brown leather sheath, with a chiselled
steel shoe to drag on the pavement, and each weapon hung from the wearer's shoulder-belt by
two short chains of well-furbished steel. The weapons looked serviceable, though they made
little pretence to beauty, in an age when most things worn by men and women were adorned too
much rather than too little.

But the men themselves were not alike. The shorter of the two was very fair, with the complexion
of a Saxon child, and unnaturally pink cheeks; his nose turned up to a sharp point in the most
extraordinary manner, so that the pink openings of the nostrils seemed to stand upright above
the flaxen moustache, reminding one of the muzzles of certain wild cats. His blue eyes were
large, perfectly round, and often aggressively fixed, and the long yellow lashes that bristled
all round them might have passed for rays. He wore a short pointed beard, and his very thick
fair hair was parted exactly in the middle and hung down below his dingy collar on each side,
perfectly straight and completely hiding his ears. There was something both comic and disturbing
in his aspect.

His companion was much less extraordinary in appearance, though any one would have noticed
him in a crowd as an unusual type. Instead of being fair, he was as dark as a Moor; instead
of turning up, his immensely long and melancholy nose curved downwards over his thin lips like
a vulture's beak as if trying to peck at his chin. His eyes were shadowy and uncertain under
his prominent forehead and bushy eyebrows. His beard was a mere black wisp, and the points
of his scant moustaches were waxed and stood up stiffly. He was the taller of the two, but
his hat hung lower in his hand than his friend's, for he had unnaturally long arms, with a
long body and short legs, whereas the fair man with the turned-up nose was remarkably well-proportioned.

'Who says we have no good music in Venice?' inquired the latter at last, fixing his round eyes
on the other's face angrily, and pressing down the hilt of his sword so as to make the point
stick up behind.

His mouth looked ridiculously small, and his pink cheeks were very large and round. His companion
had long ago come to the conclusion that he was very like one of those rosy cherubs that roll
about the clouds in the religious pictures painted in those times, blowing their trumpets till
they look as if their red cheeks must burst. Accordingly, he had nicknamed his friend 'Trombin,'
short for 'trombino,' a 'little trumpeter.'

The dark man had always gone by the name of Gambardella, and seemed quite satisfied with the
appellation. The two had been companions in their profession for several years, but neither
knew much of the other's antecedents, and both were far too proud, or too tactful, or too prudent,
to ask questions. They wore the dress and weapons of gentlemen, and were extremely ticklish
as to the point of honour; but they did not now sit in the Grand Council of the Venetian Republic,
though each perceived that the other had once enjoyed that privilege, and had forfeited it
for the good of his native city. They travelled a great deal, always together, and their friends
knew that they met with frequent and sudden changes of fortune. Their clothes were shabby now,
yet scarcely six months ago they had been seen strolling arm in arm in Florence, in the Piazza
della Signoria, arrayed in silks and satins and fine linen. Only their weapons were never replaced
in prosperity by handsomer swords with gilded hilts, nor exchanged in adversity for others
of less perfect balance and temper.

'This Stradella sings like an angel,' said Gambardella after a moment. 'I hear that he composes
good music himself, and that his new oratorio will be performed before the Doge in Saint Mark's
next Sunday.'

'If we had any money,' observed Trombin regretfully, 'we would hire a house and ask him to supper.'

'Yes,' answered Gambardella in a melancholy tone. 'Our Venetians do not understand these things.
To them a man of genius like Alessandro Stradella is just a music-master, and nothing else,
a mountebank or a strolling minstrel, to be hired and paid for his work, and dismissed with
a cool nod, like a servant. Trombin, let us leave Venice.'

'After we have heard the oratorio on Sunday----'

'Of course! Do you think I would miss that? But there is nothing for us to do here just now,
whereas in Genoa, or Florence, or even Rome, we should not be always idle.'

'Venice is a dull place, compared with what it used to be,' Trombin admitted, and he raised
his right forearm, turning it till he could examine the threadbare elbow of his coat in the
glare of the candles. 'Another week will do it,' he added, after a careful examination. 'I
can already perceive the direction which the split will take.'

'I never sit down, if I can help it,' said Gambardella mournfully.

'It is a strange fact,' answered Trombin thoughtfully, 'that only those nations that wear breeches
sit upon chairs; the others squat on their heels, though they have no breeches to save. This
is a most contradictory world.'

'I never could see any sense in it myself,' returned the other. 'Shall we go to supper?'

'It pleases you to be humorous,' Trombin observed, and they moved away from the great choir screen.

As they passed the blazing chapel of the Sacrament, each bent his knee and crossed himself
devoutly. The young monk was still prostrate before the altar. Trombin looked at him sharply,
and the two went on towards the open door, through which the fading twilight outside admitted
barely enough light to distinguish the great pillars and tombs.

The two shabby gentlemen left the church and strolled slowly along the edge of the canal. In
the open air it was quite light still, and the warm afterglow of the sunset had not quite paled
yet.

'Supper!' said Trombin presently, dwelling on the one word in a musical tone, and with the
deepest feeling.

'That is the worst of Venice,' answered Gambardella, gloomily pulling his soft hat over his
eyes. 'One cannot even eat here without paying. Now in Florence or Rome the people are more
simple, and when you have made your necessary debts, and creditors talk of imprisoning you,
why, then, you need only appeal to the Venetian Ambassador for protection, and you are perfectly
safe! But here! On the word of a gentleman, it is enough to drive a man to highway robbery!'

Trombin laughed softly.

'Supper!' he said again, as musically and feelingly as before.

'You will make me mad with your whining!' cried Gambardella angrily. 'You will drive me to
commit a crime!'

'One more will make no difference,' returned Trombin, with great coolness. 'After the first,
which sullied the virgin lustre of your spotless soul, my dear friend, it is of no use to count
the others, till you come to the last--and may you enjoy many long years of health, activity,
and happiness before that is reached!'

'The same to you!' answered the melancholic man morosely, for he was hungry, and in no humour
for banter.

They stopped where a wooden bridge spanned the narrow canal, for all bridges in Venice were
not yet built of stone in the year 1670.

They had only one thought, and Trombin had already expressed it twice with longing and regret.
So far as mere hunger and thirst went, they could satisfy themselves with bread, salt fish
and cheese, and a draught of water. They were not such imprudent gentlemen as to risk absolute
starvation in their native city, where they could get no credit, and though they often lived
riotously for months together, they invariably set aside a sum which would furnish them with
the merest necessities for a considerable time. There was a system in their way of living,
and they stuck to it with a laudable determination which would have done honour to better men.
Enough was not as good as a feast, and since their income was always uncertain, the only way
to get any real enjoyment out of life was to feast recklessly while they could, though only
for a few days, and then to pay for extravagance with the strictest asceticism, till a rain
of gold once more gladdened the garret to which they had retired to fast.

They stood by the end of the bridge in silence a long time while it grew dark, Gambardella
gazing sadly at the dark water of the still canal at his feet, while Trombin, who was of a
more hopeful disposition, looked at the evening star, just visible in the darkening west, between
the long lines of tall houses on each side of the canal. The reason why they stopped just then
with one accord was that to cross the bridge meant to go home to their wretched lodging, though
it was still so early; and the prospect was not attractive. But they knew their weakness, and
long ago had bound themselves together by promises they would not break. If they turned away
from the bridge and followed the narrow street, they would come in time to Saint Mark's Square,
and they would breathe the intoxicating air of pleasure that hung over it as the scent of flowers
over a garden at evening, and temptation would assail them in one of at least twenty delightful
shapes; and then and there the little sum that stood between them and starvation would melt
away in a night, leaving them in a very bad way indeed.

Yet now they lingered just a few moments by the wooden bridge, dreaming of riotous nights and
glorious suppers, before going home to bread and cheese and cold water. And just then fate
sent to them the young Dominican monk they had left prostrate before the altar in the church
when they came out; at all events it seemed natural to suppose that it was he, though they
had hardly caught sight of his youthful face before and now could not see it all, for he had
pulled his white hood well down over his eyes.

He was evidently about to cross the bridge, when he unexpectedly found Trombin in front of
him, stopping the way. The street and the canal were deserted, and not a sound broke the stillness.
The monk stood still. He was short and slight, and could have slipped through a very narrow
space, but Trombin seemed to swell himself out till he filled the bridge from side to side,
and kept his hand on the hilt of his rapier.

Gambardella looked on indifferently, supposing that his companion meant to indulge in some
witticism or practical joke at the expense of the young monk.

'Your reverence must pay toll at this bridge,' said Trombin.

'Toll?' cried a youthful voice from under the cowl.

'The decree has just been passed by the Ten,' answered Trombin. 'My friend and I are stationed
here by the Signors of the Night to exact payment.'

Gambardella did not clearly understand, but he moved up behind the monk, so that the latter
could not get back.

'I understand,' said the Dominican in his sweet voice, after a moment's hesitation. 'But I
have no money. I am only a poor monk----'

'The Fathers of the Order of Preachers do not take vows of poverty, your reverence,' said Gambardella
in deep tones, behind the youth.

'That is true, but I have no money with me,' protested the latter.

'That emerald ring you wear on your left hand will do quite as well,' answered Trombin. 'We
shall not ask you for anything else this evening.'

Now the monk's hands were thrust deep into the two slits in the front of his frock, as in a
muff; but Trombin's eyes were good, and they had caught sight of the jewel unwarily exposed
while the young man was performing his devotions in the church. He seemed disturbed, hesitated,
and hung his head.

Standing behind him, Gambardella laid a heavy hand on the slight shoulder, while Trombin, in
front, grasped his left wrist roughly, to draw it out of his frock.

At this the young monk suddenly burst into a flood of tears under his cowl, and began to sob
bitterly.

'What fish have we caught here?' asked Gambardella, laughing for the first time that day, and
he seized the point of the hood at the back to pull it off the head and face.

But instantly the monk's right hand went up and held it down in front desperately.

'No, no! Please--you shall have the ring--anything--only let me go!'

There was no mistaking the feminine voice now, broken as it was with sobbing, and Trombin made
one step backward on the bridge and bowed to the ground.

'Madam,' he said, with a grand air, 'we are not ruffians, but Venetian gentlemen. We will respect
your disguise, and shall be delighted and honoured to see you safely to your own door. For
this little service we shall be more than rewarded if you will leave us your ring in recollection
of our auspicious meeting!'

'As a further return for your kindness,' added Gambardella, speaking over the disguised lady's
shoulder, 'we are at your service, to rid you of any obnoxious friends or relations.'

'I see that you are Bravi,' the lady said, keeping her face closely concealed under the hood.
'I am the less unwilling to part with my ring since I may have need of you. But where can I
find you in that case?'

'When we are unoccupied, you will find us at our devotions in the Church of the Frari during
the Benediction, any day,' answered Trombin, receiving the ring from the delicate white fingers
that held it out to him.

He bowed as he took it, and flattened himself against the rail of the wooden bridge, hat in
hand, to let the disguised lady go by.

'Shall we follow you, Madam, for your greater safety?' asked Gambardella.

'No, I pray you! I will go alone. I live near here.'

'We wish your ladyship a very happy night,' Trombin answered.

'The same to you,' said the young voice.

She was out of sight in a few seconds in spite of her white monk's frock, which might have
been seen at a considerable distance even in the gloom of the narrow lane beyond the bridge.
Trombin, who tried to follow her with his sharp eyes, was sure that she had turned into a cross
alley that led to the large court in which the Palazzo Pignaver then stood.

But that was a matter of speculation, whereas the emerald ring was a matter of fact, and could
be converted into a number of things which the two adventurous gentlemen very much wanted just
then. Their vow of economy now no longer bade them cross the bridge and return to their wretched
lodging and frugal supper. The ring would pay for many suppers, and for good clothes too. They
did not even exchange a word as they turned in the direction of the Rialto with a light step,
and they felt that delightful sensation which fills the being of a man who loves eating at
the moment when brutal hunger, that has expected only prison fare, turns into keen appetite
at the sudden vision of boundless good things to eat in half an hour.

Gambardella's melancholy face relaxed in the dark, and the lines that had before turned down
now all turned upwards, except those of his long hooked nose; and the formidable beak seemed
to stand sentinel over his thin lips, so that no good thing should enter between them on the
way to his stomach without sending up its toll of rich savour to his nostrils.

Trombin's small pursed-up mouth also widened to a set smile, and he softly hummed snatches
from the beautiful air Alessandro Stradella had sung during the Benediction service. It was
a mere thread of a squeak of a falsetto voice, but it had at least the merit of being perfectly
in tune, and his musical memory was faultless.

'You are a great man,' said Gambardella thoughtfully, when they had walked some distance and
were nearing their destination.

'You flatter me!' laughed Trombin. 'What is easier than to guess that a Dominican monk with
a small white hand and an emerald ring may be a lady in disguise? Besides, my dear friend,
with your exquisite sense of all that is feminine, you must surely have noticed her walk as
she came up to the bridge. I am not a judge of women myself, but as soon as I saw the monk
walking, I was sure of the truth.'

'I did not see her coming, but she has a delicious voice,' answered Gambardella thoughtfully.
'I wish I had seen her face.'

'Perhaps you may, some day. Here we are.'

They stopped before a low arched door not fifty yards from the Rialto. A large dry bush, sticking
out of a narrow grated window beside the forbidding entrance, showed that wine was sold within.
The faint yellow light from the lamp of a shrine, built in the wall on the opposite side of
the street, just overcame the darkness. Trombin tried the door and found it ajar; both men
entered, and Gambardella pushed it back to its original position.

It was quite dark within, and the place smelt like a wine-cellar, but the two evidently knew
their way and they walked quickly forward, half a dozen paces or so, till a wide space suddenly
opened on the right, and a wretched little earthenware oil-lamp appeared, high up, dimly lighting
the first landing of a damp stone staircase. The friends began to mount at once.

As they went up the air became drier, the smell of the cellar turned into a complex odour of
grilled meats, savoury sauces, rich wine, and spring fruits, which the companions snuffed and
breathed in with greedy delight; sounds of laughing voices were heard, the stairs were better
lighted, and now and then the idle tinkling of a lute or of a deep-voiced, double-stringed
guitar made an improvised accompaniment to the cheerful echoes.

Gambardella and Trombin entered a brightly lighted vestibule at the head of the stair and were
greeted by the host in person, a broad-shouldered, black-haired Samian with brilliant red cheeks;
he was showily dressed in blue cloth trimmed with gold braid, wore a tall fez and spotless
linen, and had a perfect arsenal of weapons stuck in his belt, all richly ornamented with silver
work, in which were set pieces of coral, carbuncles, and turquoises. He had a look of tremendous
vitality and health, and the tawny light danced and played in his eyes when he laughed. He
spoke the Venetian dialect fluently, but with a strong Greek accent, and an evident difficulty
in pronouncing the letter B.

'Welcome, young gentlemen!' he cried in a formidably cheerful voice, as he rose from the little
table at which he had been busy with his accounts. 'Here is old Markos, your faithful friend!
What can Markos do for your lordships to-day? Do you desire money of Markos? It is yours, all
his poor store! Or do you come for supper, to taste a real pilaf and a brace of quails roasted
in fig leaves, with a jar of old wine of Samos and a sweetmeat, and some liquor brewed by the
monks of Mount Athos? Markos is here to serve you!'

He looked as broad as he was long as he stood there bawling out his noisy greetings, his thumbs
stuck into his broad red leather belt, his legs apart, and his white teeth gleaming like a
young boar's tusks in the midst of his shiny black beard.

Trombin nodded gravely at each phrase, keeping his hat on his head, and making his rapier stick
up behind him. From the rooms beyond the vestibule the rich steam of good things floated through
the half-closed door, and the ring of merry voices, clinking glasses, and tinkling strings
was delightful to the ears of men who had supped in a garret on bread and salt fish for three
weeks.

'Markos,' said Trombin, 'apply your excellent sight and your money-lender's intelligence to
this marvellous ring, with which unfortunate circumstances now oblige me to part. It belonged
to my sainted aunt, the Abbess of Acquaviva, who left it to me with her blessing when I was
young and innocent. It was once blessed by His Holiness Saint Pius the Fifth, who thereby endowed
it with efficacious power to protect the virtue of those who should wear it. My sainted aunt
wore it for forty years, and she was indeed virtuous to the end of her life. I remember that
she was cross-eyed and had bad teeth and a sallow complexion. For my own part, I must confess
that I have not always----'

'How much do you want on it?' interrupted Markos, who had been examining the stone as well
as he could by the light of the oil-lamp, while Trombin was talking in his grand style.

'A hundred ducats down, and no wine,' answered Gambardella, without hesitation, in his deep voice.

'We would accept half a dozen jars of Samos, to be drunk here,' suggested Trombin, 'if we sealed
them ourselves.'

Markos grinned from ear to ear.

'Twenty ducats,' he said quietly, 'and a hogshead of "rezinato," worth ten ducats more! That
is all I can give.'

'Rezinato at ten ducats!' sneered Gambardella.

'It costs me that,' retorted the money-lender, 'so it must be worth it. Possibly I might make
the cash twenty-five ducats, but that would only be out of old friendship. I shall lose by
it if you do not redeem the ring.'

'I wish you might lose something for once!' cried Trombin devoutly.

They bargained long. In those days, and long before and afterwards, the money-lenders of Venice
were Greek and Eastern eating-house keepers and sellers of wine, and it was impossible to pawn
any object with them without accepting at least one-third of the advance in the shape of wine
more or less sour, or watered, or both.

But the two shabbily-dressed gentlemen who had taken the emerald ring from the disguised lady
were not ordinary customers. Trombin inspired present terror, and Gambardella apprehension
for the future, and though Markos was as broad as he was long and had a dozen pistols and knives
in his belt, his courage was not equal to his ferocious appearance. From a business point of
view, the Venetian Bravi were children in his hands; but when they came quite near to him,
one on each side, and spoke slowly and clearly in their determined way, the tremendous Markos
felt his bravery shrink within him till it seemed to rattle like a dry pea shaken in a steel
cuirass, and the amount of money he actually advanced on the ring was considerable; he even
consented to let Gambardella seal the six jars of Samos wine, which formed part of the loan,
with the heavy brass seal ring the Bravo wore, on which was engraved the Bear of the Ursuline
Order of Nuns, with a few words in Gothic characters. One of many things which Trombin did
not know about his companion was the story of that ring and how Gambardella had become possessed
of it.

So the transaction was duly terminated, and when Markos had at last parted with his money and
his fine old wine, his jolly face cleared once more; for, after all, he had not lost by the
bargain, though he had not made much, and the good-will of the two most famous and dangerous
cut-throats in all the Venetian territory was worth something to a man who always lived more
or less on the outer edge of the law.

Half-an-hour later bliss descended upon the companions as they sat at table in their favourite
place, a sort of alcove or niche in the general hall of the eating-house, whence they could
see and hear all that went on, without being too much disturbed in their enjoyment of the good
things set before them. The place was brightly lighted by several scores of lamps fed with
mingled oil, tallow, and camphor, and fastened on large wooden rings that hung from the high
ceiling. The smoke floated up to the blackened beams, and found its way out through a small
clere-story window at one end, and the light below was clear and soft. Thirty or forty guests
were seated at tables of different sizes, and amongst them was a fair scattering of handsome
women, mostly dressed in silks and satins of bright colours, and wearing jewels that sparkled
when they moved. The men were of all sorts: there were a few good-looking young Venetian nobles,
who had laid aside their cloaks and outer coats, and sat in their doublets and lace collars;
there were two rich English travellers, in dark velvet, their long fair locks carefully combed
and curled in the manner of the cavaliers, their hands conspicuously white, and their fingers
adorned with magnificent rings; with them sat two auburn-haired Venetian beauties, radiant
and laughing, and sipping Eastern wines from tall goblets of Murano glass. At one long table
near the wall a serenading party was installed, their pretty instruments hanging on pegs behind
them, together with their hats and cloaks. Beyond, in a corner, a pale young Florentine, with
a spiritual profile, was supping with a lady who turned her back to the hall, and whose head
and shoulders were almost hidden in a cloud of priceless lace. These two spoke little and ate
delicately, and now and then their dark eyes met and flashed upon each other.

The air was hot, and heavy with the fumes of Greek wines and savoury dishes. At the farther
end of the hall a large door opened now and then, and showed the bright kitchen where the host's
wife presided, and whence neatly dressed youths brought dishes to the guests. Considering what
the place was, an eating-house kept by a foreign money-lender, there was an air of luxury about
it, and an appearance of orderly and temperate behaviour among the guests, that would have
surprised a stranger who knew nothing of Venice, if he had been suddenly introduced by the
gloomy entrance from the street through which Trombin and Gambardella had made their way.

CHAPTER VI

The lady who chose to go about Venice at dusk in the disguise of a monk encountered no further
adventures after the loss of her ring; but she met with a very grave disappointment, of which
the consequences directly concern this tale. After leaving the Bravi who had robbed her, she
threaded the narrow ways northwards with a quick step till she came to a point near to the
Fondaco dei Turchi on the Grand Canal. There she took the gondola that waited for passengers
at the old traghetto, and she was quickly ferried over to the landing by the Palazzo Grimani.
A few minutes later she was knocking at the door of Alessandro Stradella's lodgings near Santa
Maria dell' Orto.

She knocked firmly and confidently, like a person quite sure of admittance. But no one came
to open, and she heard no sound from within; so she knocked again, and after a shorter interval
a third time. There was no answer, and nothing broke the stillness. With small regard for her
disguise, the lady stamped twice in a most feminine way, then tried to shake the solid door
with her hands, and finally turned away in disgust. It was almost dark in the staircase, and
she descended the two flights slowly, drawing her hand along the wall to steady herself. The
exercise of some caution, to avoid a fall, momentarily cooled her anger a little, and when
she reached the entrance of the house she reflected that she had perhaps been hasty, and that
the Maestro had possibly been detained by the other musicians, and would come home before long.
She waited some time under the shadow of the archway, though several persons passed her, some
going in, others going out. No one is ever surprised to see a monk waiting at the door of a
large house. The disguised lady walked slowly up and down, her hood drawn well over her eyes,
and her hands hidden in the slits of the frock.

But when the clocks struck the hour, and it had grown quite dark, she gave up all hope, and
went away, returning in the direction whence she had come, and revolving plans of vengeance
on the ungrateful singer as she walked.

She could not call him faithless, even in her mortification, for she had never exchanged a
word with him in her life; and if that seems strange to any who read this story, let them learn
something, if they can, of what constantly happens nowadays to popular operatic tenors. The
disguised lady was of a romantic disposition; she was the respected wife of a rich citizen,
by no means noble; her husband was absent in the East, and she had foolishly fallen in love
with Alessandro Stradella's voice. She had written him the most silly letters he had ever received,
setting forth the searing passion that devoured her, and apparently certain that he already
shared it and only wanted an opportunity in order to tell her so. As he never answered her
letters, she made up her mind that he feared her husband, though she had repeatedly assured
him that the latter was absent and had left no Argus-eyed relation in charge of her and responsible
for her acts. She wrote again and again, and even descended to promising that she would make
him a rich man if he would only take courage and answer her pressing invitation.

Still he did not answer; and at last, despairing of any other means of moving him, she had
written that she would come disguised to his dwelling on that evening, after the music in the
Frari. For she always knew where he was to sing, and she never missed an opportunity of hearing
him. She had accordingly gone to the church, and before leaving it she had prostrated herself
and offered up the most sincere prayers for the success of her amorous enterprise, as if Saint
Francis and Saint Anthony of Padua had power to suspend the rule of the Ten Commandments for
her benefit during the evening.

These, in few words, are the facts which had preceded her visit to Stradella's lodging, and
which resulted in the maddening disappointment and humiliation she felt when she turned her
steps homewards.

At the same hour no one at the Palazzo Pignaver had yet noticed the absence of Ortensia and
Pina. The gondolier waited by the landing at the Frari till it was dark, and then returned
to the palace, supposing that the two had walked home and had forgotten to dismiss him, for
this had happened once or twice already. He ran his gondola in between the painted piles by
the steps of the palace, without inquiring whether his mistress and the nurse had entered by
the postern; for almost every Venetian palace has two entrances, the main one being on the
canal and approachable only in a boat, while the other opens upon the street at the back.

Ortensia was not missed till supper-time, and that was fully two hours after sunset; for it
was the Senator's custom to leave his niece to herself or to Pina's company from the time when
he brought her home, if she had been out with him in the gondola, until the evening meal; and
if she asked leave to go to confession, as she had to-day, she returned before dark and retired
to her own rooms without seeing him until she joined him at supper.

He required the most extreme punctuality of her and of all his household. Excessive exactness
in regard to time is often the delight and the torment of people who have nothing to do of
any importance. The time which some punctual persons waste in waiting for others would be enough
to make them notable men if they used it better.

The Senator waited for Ortensia at least two minutes with equanimity, but after that his brow
darkened, he paced the room impatiently, and he began to compose the scolding he meant to give
her as soon as she came. This occupied him satisfactorily for at least five minutes, for he
was always very nice in the choosing of his words on such occasions. His scoldings were administered
in classical Italian, and not in the Venetian dialect of everyday life; they were constructed
like short orations, with an exordium, an exposition of the fault committed, and a peroration,
and they were followed by a long silence, during which they were supposed to work and take
effect on the mind of the delinquent. Pignaver mentally reached the end of the intended admonition,
and yet Ortensia did not come.

Then he lost his temper and sent one of the two servants to call her; and at the same time
it occurred to him that he was making himself ridiculous in the eyes of the others by waiting
for a mere chit of a girl. He therefore sat down rather hastily at the supper-table in the
middle of the room and attacked the preliminary appetisers, shrimps, caviare, and thin slices
of raw ham, and the chief butler poured a light white wine of Germany into his large glass;
for the Senator was fond of good eating and drinking.

But to-night he was not to enjoy his supper, though the caviare had arrived that very day from
Constantinople, and the shrimps were precisely of the right size, which is very important to
a true epicure. The footman came back at last with a white face and said, in a trembling tone,
that neither the young lady nor Pina were in the house.

The Senator dropped his two-pronged fork, his jaw fell at the same time, and at least four
seconds passed before he recovered his breath. Then he sprang up, overturned his heavy chair
in his excitement, and rushed from the room, followed by both the servants.

He searched the palace himself, he stormed, he raved, he cursed, he threatened, but Ortensia
was not to be found. Everything in her rooms was in order, just as usual; she had gone to confession
with her nurse as she had gone scores of times before, but she had not come home. That was
all there was to be said about it.

At first no suspicion of the truth crossed Pignaver's brain. He believed she had been kidnapped
either for her beauty, or by miscreants who would hold her for a ransom. Then he remembered
the gondola and asked if it had come back. Yes, it was below; the old head gondolier had taken
Ortensia to the Frari as usual, but he said she had returned on foot. The Senator sent for
him, but no one could find him now, though the porter had been talking with him only ten minutes
ago.

Nothing remained but to search Venice, and to inform the Signor of the Night that the girl
and her nurse were missing from the palace. Pignaver forgot his supper altogether in his anxiety
to lose no time.

The Signor was in his office, and was a distant cousin of the Senator's; for the Signors of
the Night were noblemen who served in turn, superintending the police from sunset to sunrise.
Only forty-eight hours had passed since this same gentleman had sent word to Pignaver of the
attempt made by a supposed thief to get over the garden wall.

'He was not a burglar, my friend,' the Signor now said with conviction. 'If you will allow
me to say so, with the most profound respect for your honour, I am sure that the man was your
niece's lover, and that he has now succeeded in carrying her off, with the help of the serving-woman.'

Pignaver groaned and turned pale. But the Signor, who knew his business, asked him questions,
and elicited enough information about Stradella and the singing lessons to convince him that
the famous singer was at the bottom of the mischief. He said so plainly.

'A music-master!' cried Pignaver in a black rage, for he saw that the other was probably right.
'A singer! A catgut-pincher! A villainous low lute-strummer! No, sir, no! A thousand times
no! The niece of Michele Pignaver is incapable of demeaning herself with a mountebank, sir!
I must assure you----'

'The young lady,' interrupted the Signor, with a faint smile, 'is not your own niece, Senator,
but the daughter of your late wife's brother.'

'No matter!' cried the Senator. 'Do you mean to imply, sir, that my late honoured wife would
have been capable of demeaning herself with----'

'Heaven forbid!' ejaculated the other, interrupting again. 'You might as well suggest that
Eve was herself a murderess because one of her sons killed the other. I suggest nothing, Senator--certainly
nothing in the least derogatory to the honour of your house.'

'What do you advise me to do?' asked Pignaver, suddenly appeased.

He had changed his tone and spoke almost calmly, for his anger, like most things he did, was
a matter of acting. The Signor understood, and again he smiled faintly. Before he answered
he carefully snuffed and trimmed the three wicks of the tall brass lamp on the table. It had
a big metal shade in the shape of a butterfly, which he turned so that it screened the light
from his eyes and reflected it into his visitor's face.

'You will naturally wish to avoid a scandal,' he said, watching the Senator. 'Yes, I thought
so. Very well, if Stradella has carried off your niece, as I am almost sure he has, they are
beyond pursuit by this time. They have reached the mainland and are riding away as fast as
they can towards the frontier. There is not the slightest chance of catching them. You must
say that you have sent the young lady to the country for her health.'

At this Pignaver made a dramatic gesture. He raised both his hands on each side of his head,
clenched his fingers, turned up his eyes, and pretended to be trembling with almost uncontrollable
fury. The Signor knew his weakness and looked on with quiet amusement.

'I will have the city thoroughly searched during the next few days for two persons resembling
your niece and the woman,' he continued. 'But if they have already fled, and if you insist
upon finding them, you will have to employ private agents.'

'Yes, yes,' answered Pignaver thoughtfully. 'That will be best. Can you recommend any person
to undertake such a delicate business, sir? I suppose that, in your position, you are acquainted
at least with the names of some such men.'

The Signor, who was an amiable man, smiled pleasantly now.

'The truth is,' he said, 'we have some of them under supervision, and I chance to know of two
who would suit your purpose well, and are unemployed at present, and badly in need of money.
I have no doubt but that they will be glad to serve you. They have earned the reputation of
being conscientious in carrying out their engagements, and intrepid in danger.'

Pignaver had listened attentively, and at once asked for the names and the address of the Bravi.

'They are known as Trombin and Gambardella,' said the Signor; 'they are now in Venice, and
are generally to be heard of at the eating-house of Markos, the Samian money-lender and wine-dealer.
I dare say you know where his place is? Not far from the Rialto, on this side----'

'In what is left of the old Quirini Palace, where they sell poultry downstairs?' asked Pignaver.

'Precisely. I see you are acquainted with the resort. I have, in fact, been there myself--on
a matter of duty, of course.'

'Of course,' echoed the Senator. 'I have only heard of it, but I think I can find it.'

'I am sure you can,' assented the Signor, without a smile.

Pignaver had not only heard of the eating-house, but he had been there more than once, and
knew the taste of the famous pilaf and the flavour of the old wine of Samos as well as anybody.
He had even sat in the recess where the two gentlemen of fortune were at that moment supping.
He had worn a mask, it is true, and by some mistake a lady had sat down at the same small table
a moment after he had come, and he had fallen into conversation with her. But it was not necessary
to tell this to the Signor.

The latter promised again to have a thorough search made through the city for Ortensia and
Pina, and wrote down the descriptions Pignaver gave him. The nurse was described as 'a serving-woman,
with grey eyes, and black hair turning grey at the temples, whose manners were rather above
her station, and who had once been handsome. Age: forty-three. Mark: the thumb of the right
hand had been broken and was distorted.'

'By the thumb-screw, I suppose,' observed the Signor in a business-like tone.

'It certainly looks like it,' answered the Senator indifferently.

He took his departure after a few more words and went out by the back door; he then walked
in the direction of the Rialto, muffling himself in his great cloak, of which he threw one
corner over his shoulder, so that it almost covered his face. He had left his gondola waiting
in the narrow canal, and if he chose to come back and take it again, he could reach it without
going through the low building in which the Signors of the Night had their office, and the
city watch its headquarters.

The Signor had promised to continue the search during three days, and to inform him of any
clue he found. Meanwhile, Pignaver thought it would be as well to find the two gentlemen who
had been so highly recommended to him, and he hastened to the half-ruined Palazzo Quirini.
He went in by a more convenient entrance than the two Bravi had chosen for reasons of their
own, but he found Markos where they had found him, still busy with his accounts in the bright
little vestibule. When the Senator entered, he had already slipped on the little velvet mask
which most Venetians carried about them in the evening, but the Samian either recognised his
voice or knew instinctively that his visitor was a person of quality, for he bowed to the ground,
rubbed his large hands as if washing them before serving his guest, and answered the Senator's
brief salutation in a profoundly obsequious tone.

Pignaver now laid one finger on his lips and spoke in a whisper, asking whether Markos was
acquainted with two honest gentlemen named respectively Signor Trombin and Signor Gambardella.

By an almost miraculous coincidence the two honest gentlemen were at that very moment supping
within. Markos offered to call them out.

'Unless,' he added, 'your lordship is in need of supper, and will join them.'

The Senator remembered that he had eaten only a few mouthfuls since dinner, and the savoury
fumes from the hall further sharpened his appetite.

'The gentlemen are eating together at the little table in the recess,' Markos added, as he
detected signs of hesitation. 'You can turn your back to the room, my lord, if you do not wish
to be watched.'

Pignaver nodded and followed the host, who at once led the way in. Some of the people who had
been supping when the Bravi had entered were gone away, but others had taken their places.
The young Florentine and his beautiful guest had disappeared, and their table was occupied
by a noisily gay party, of whom more than half wore masks. The two fair Englishmen in velvet
were still gravely drinking with their laughing companions, but their eyes were growing rather
dull. The serenaders had finished their meal, and were making soft music in their corner, trying
over the songs they were going to sing.

'Gentlemen,' said Markos to the Bravi, 'allow me to introduce a highly respectable personage
who has business with you, and would like to join you at supper.'

Trombin and Gambardella rose with a courtesy which showed where they had been bred, in spite
of their present profession. Though they had been at supper two hours and had done well by
a jar of old Samian, they were as cool and steady as when they had sat down, a fact which predisposed
Pignaver in their favour.

'Will you do us the honour to be our guest, sir?' asked Gambardella at once.

'But you have already supped, gentlemen,' answered the Senator.

'That is a trifle, sir,' Trombin said. 'We have not quite finished, and if you will join us
we shall be delighted to begin again from the beginning. A clean cloth, Markos,' he went on
at once, turning to the host, 'and the same dishes over again!'

'Your hospitality confounds me, sirs,' protested the Senator. 'I can but accept your gracious
invitation.'

He sat down at the end of the small table, turning his back to the hall. Markos was already
making preparations, and in a few minutes the board was set again, and with the very same delicacies
which the Senator had just begun to taste at his own supper when Ortensia's flight had been
discovered. He ate in silence, with solemn greediness, while his two companions each took one
shrimp and a taste of the caviare, and exchanged an occasional glance. When he had consumed
everything except the bread, Pignaver spoke.

'I believe I am not mistaken in thinking that you two gentlemen occasionally undertake little
matters of private business,' he began. 'If I am wrong, pray correct me.'

'You are rightly informed, sir,' answered Trombin; 'we do, though only on certain conditions,
which, again, so far as they are favourable or unfavourable, depend on circumstances; and these
circumstances themselves, as your experience of life has made you well aware, sir, are often
the result of that element of chance, which, under Providence, plays such an important part
in the affairs of men.'

This was rather vague, and Pignaver, who read the classics and prided himself on his memory,
was reminded of those Lacedæmonians who answered the wordy fugitives from Samos by saying that
they had already forgotten the first half of their speech and did not understand the second.
When Trombin had finished speaking, he waited for an answer and looked steadily at the Senator,
opening his eyes wider and wider till they were perfectly round and the lashes stood out in
a circle like yellow rays, and he puckered his lips in the most ridiculous manner, as if he
were just going to whistle. Gambardella, on the other hand, took a minute quantity of caviare
on the end of his fork and tasted it delicately, looking unconcernedly at the guests in the hall.

Pignaver reflected a moment and drank wine before speaking.

'I attribute my presence here,' he said, 'to the direct intervention of Providence.'

'We share your view,' answered Gambardella with gravity.

'In fact,' added Trombin, 'the elements of acquaintance all agree admirably well--the circumstances,
the conditions, chance, and Providence itself. For if, as I gather from your own words, sir,
you stand in need of a little friendly assistance from us, we, on our side, are weary of wasting
our wits in conversation and our strength in luxurious idleness. It is our mission to benefit
mankind both here and hereafter, by despatching useless persons to Paradise and thus cheering
the lives of the friends they leave on earth. Assured of this, as we are, all inactivity is
unbearable to us. At the present moment we are, so to say, unemployed philanthropists; we are
but a potential and passive blessing to our fellow-creatures, though we burn to be doing good
to all! I appeal to my friend, Count Gambardella, here. Is this not the exact truth?'

'Absolutely,' answered the other, toying with a shrimp. 'What my friend, Count Trombin, says
is always strictly true.'

'How could it be otherwise?' asked Pignaver. 'But I must apologise for not having addressed
you gentlemen by your proper titles, which are foreign, though I had taken you both for Venetian
nobles.'

'We are, sir,' Trombin answered, 'but it pleased his Majesty the King of France to confer titles
of French nobility on us, after we had rendered him a trifling service. We should likewise
esteem ourselves your debtors, sir, if you would inform us of your own name, since we are fortunate
enough to be entertaining you as our guest.'

Again the round eyes opened wide, like those of an angry cat, and the mouth was all puckered
in the midst of the cherubic face, while Trombin waited for the answer. The Senator saw that
he had no choice.

'My name is Pignaver,' he said slowly, and dwelling proudly on each syllable, 'and I am a Senator.
You will understand at once why I wear a mask here. I am well known by sight to many, and I
have many friends----'

'One too many, I presume,' suggested Gambardella, interrupting softly.

'I shall communicate my business at once,' said Pignaver, 'for the person in question could
never have been my friend any more than he could be my enemy.'

'We understand your meaning,' said Gambardella; 'he is of low birth. Shall we say that he is
"superfluous"?'

'A weed,' suggested Trombin, 'a parasite, a wart, an overgrowth, a thing to be eradicated before
it does greater harm! Do you take me, my lord? Have I fitted the word to the definition and
suited the definition to the man?'

'Admirably, Count,' assented Pignaver. 'Your command of language fills me with envy. "Eradicate"
is good, very good!'

'Does the weed flourish in Venice, my lord?' asked Gambardella, who was bored and wished to
settle the preliminaries of the business at once.

'If I did not detest false metaphors,' said Pignaver, 'I should say that the weed has just
flown, or, as I might say, fled, taking with it the finest flower of my garden. But since elegant
speech must not be submitted to such outrages, I will speak plainly.'

At this point the conversation was interrupted by the appearance of the steaming pilaf, brought
on by a neatly clad youth, whose companion set down beside it a dish of quails roasted in young
vine leaves, and emitting a deliciously aromatic odour. Trombin and his friend helped the Senator
generously, and filled his glass again. He was so hungry by this time that he ate several mouthfuls
before he spoke again.

'I have always found the emotions to be great appetisers,' observed Trombin, watching him.
'Men feast at a wedding, and gorge themselves after a funeral. A fit of anger whets the appetite,
for I have seen a man fly into a towering passion with the cook and then immediately devour
the very dish he has found fault with, to the last scraping. As for the passion of love, a
French proverb says well that happiness makes an empty stomach. I can only hope, my lord, that
in a week's time you may enjoy your supper as much, with satisfaction for a relish instead
of annoyance. As for me, the mere thought of doing some good in the world makes me hungry.'

And as he spoke he began to eat another quail which he had already taken on his plate. But
Gambardella was more and more bored, and went to the point, as soon as the Senator looked up
from his plate.

'We understand,' he said, 'that some low-born fellow has carried off a lady of your lordship's
household. Do you know where they are?'

'No. I know nothing, except that they have either left Venice already or will escape before
morning.'

'That means a wide search,' said Gambardella.

'But an easy one,' the Senator replied. 'The man is Alessandro Stradella, the singer, and may
the devil get him!'

'He will be safer in our hands, my lord. The lady's name, and some description of her, if you
please.'

'Ortensia is her name. She is only seventeen years old, but is very beautiful, for she is fair,
and her hair is of a true auburn colour, such as the lamented Titian often painted. Indeed,
the young lady much resembles that master's "Bella," though younger and thinner. With her is
fled also her nurse, a woman called Filippina, of middle age, with grey eyes and greyish hair,
once not bad-looking, and whose manners are above her station.'

'I suppose she is commonly called Pina,' observed Gambardella. 'Let us understand each other,
my lord. I presume you wish the young lady and the woman to be brought back to you, when the
singer is dead.'

'Precisely. I shall say that she has been spending a week with a relation of her mother's who
is the Abbess of the Ursuline Nuns in Ravenna.'

'Did you say the Ursulines in Ravenna, my lord?' asked Gambardella slowly.

'Yes,' answered Pignaver, at first a little surprised by the question, for he had spoken clearly,
although the whole conversation was carried on in low tones. The Bravo saw his expression,
and hastened to explain.

'My left ear is a little deaf,' he said, turning his head so as to present the other. 'Nothing
remains but to agree on the price of the service,' he continued in a business-like tone. 'When
we are told exactly where we shall find our man, it is simple enough. But in this case we may
have to travel far. We shall require two gold ducats daily for our expenses till we find the
opportunity we need for such a difficult business, and five hundred gold ducats when we hand
over to you the young lady and her nurse. One hundred gold ducats must be advanced before we
start, on account of expenses.'

Pignaver's sour face twitched at the mention of such sums.

'You set a high price on your services, gentlemen,' he said.

'"Service" is not precisely the word, my lord,' said Trombin, desisting from picking the leg
of a quail, and staring intently at the masked Senator. 'It is, as I may say, a false metaphor,
which is an outrage upon elegant speech--forgive me for borrowing your own expressions!'

And suddenly Trombin's eyes glared in such a way that the Senator was cowed.

'I assure you, I had no intention of giving you offence, Count,' he said. 'If you will, choose
the word you prefer; I will use it with pleasure.'

'"Benefit," my lord, or, if you prefer the longer form, "benefaction." Either will do very well.'

Trombin thereupon resumed operations on the leg of the quail, and when his absurd little mouth
showed his teeth the Senator observed they were as white and sharp as a cat's. It was clear
that he was the talker in the partnership, and left all business arrangements to his companion.

'I have named the sum we require, my lord,' the latter said calmly, 'and we are not accustomed
to argue such matters. You would give ten times as much for your own life any day, and Alessandro
Stradella would certainly find a thousand or two to save his, if the matter were laid before him.'

Pignaver saw that he must agree to the demand, for if he refused and sought help elsewhere
the Bravi would warn the musician and offer the latter their protection. The Senator was uncomfortable
in their company, as many of his friends would have been; for if a born coward ever comes into
contact with such men, he regards them much as a timid woman looks on a loaded gun. Though
the two cut-throats behaved with the outward courtesy of gentlemen, there was something terrifying
in their looks which it would have been hard to define, and the highly refined Venetian noble,
who admired the elegant works of Politian and composed scores of polished inanities, shuddered
from time to time as he glanced at Gambardella's sinewy brown hand or Trombin's strong pink
fingers and thought of the stains that must often have been on both.

A silence followed the Bravo's last speech, during which Trombin consumed more pilaf, and his
companion thoughtfully salted a small bit of bread-crust, ate it slowly, and then sipped the
old Samian wine from the blue and white glass beaker which he kept constantly quite full. And
immediately, though he had only drunk a few drops, he re-filled the glass exactly to the brim.
Trombin drank at much longer intervals, but always emptied his tumbler before replenishing
it. Nor were these opposite habits of the two men mere matters of preference or taste; for
the nose of the one turned up in such a convenient manner that he could drain the smallest
glass or cup with ease, but the other's portentous beak turned down and then hooked itself
in towards his lips, so that wherever his mouth went, there it was also, always in the way;
and if he ever tried to drink like ordinary people, its tip was wetted before he had tasted
the wine.

The Senator was reflecting before giving an answer which must be final. Was Ortensia worth
the six or seven hundred ducats which the whole affair would cost him? That was really the
question, for he looked upon the murder of Stradella merely as a necessary and just consequence
of his niece's capture, and though the thought of vengeance was agreeable to his nature, he
would not have been willing to pay such a price for it. Ortensia herself was certainly not
worth so much, in his estimation, for the sake of her beauty, seeing that he could buy a Georgian
girl almost or quite as pretty, in the Fondaco dei Turchi, for much less. Besides, though Stradella
would be dead and buried, it would always be humiliating to feel that she had belonged to him
first, though the truth need never be known in Venice. 

History catches a misty glimpse of these particular autochthones thousands of years only after
they had been settled in old Greece--namely, at the moment when the Epireans cross the Pindus
bent on expelling the black magicians from their home to Boeotia. But history never listened
to the popular legends which speak of the "accursed sorcerers" who departed, leaving as an inheritance
behind them more than one secret of their infernal arts, the fame of which crossing the ages
has now passed into history--or, classical Greek and Roman fable, if so preferred. To this day
a popular tradition narrates how the ancient forefathers of the Thessalonians, so renowned for their
magicians, had come from behind the Pillars, asking for help and refuge from the great Zeus, and imploring
the father of the gods to save them from the deluge. But the "Father" expelled them from the
Olympus, allowing their tribe to settle only at the foot of the mountain, in the valleys, and
by the shores of the Aegean Sea.

Such is the oldest fable of the ancient Thessalonians. And now, what was the language spoken
by the Atlantean Aeolians? History cannot answer us. Nevertheless, the reader has only to be
reminded of some of the accepted and a few of the as yet unknown facts, to cause the light to enter
any intuitional brain. It is now proved that man was universally conceived in antiquity as born of the
earth. Such is now the profane explanation of the term autochthones. In nearly every vulgarized
popular fable, from the Sanskrit Arya "born of the earth," or Lord of the Soil in one sense; the
Erechtheus of the archaic Greeks, worshiped in the earliest days
of the Akropolis and shown by Homer as "he whom the earth bore"

( Il. ii. 548); down to Adam fashioned of "red earth," the genetical story has a deep occult meaning,
and an indirect connection with the origin of man and of the subsequent races. Thus, the fables
of Helen, the son of Pyrrha the red--the oldest name of Thessaly; and of Mannus, the reputed ancestor
of the Germans, himself the son of Tuisco, "the red son of the earth," have not only a direct bearing
upon our Atlantis fable, but they explain moreover the division of mankind into geological groups
as made by the Occultists.

It is only this, their division, that is able to explain to Western teachers the apparently strange,
if not absurd, coincidence of the Semitic Adam--a divinely revealed personage--being connected
with red earth, in company with the Aryan Pyrrha, Tuisco, &c.--the
mythical heroes of "foolish" fables.

Nor will that division made by the Eastern Occultists, who call the 5th race people "the Brown-white,"
and the 4th race the "Red-yellow," Root-races--connecting them with geological strata--appear
at all fantastic to those who understood verse iii.

34-9 of the Veda and its occult meaning, and another verse in which the Dasyus are called "Yellow."
Hatvi Dasyun pra aryam varanam avat is said of Indra who, by killing
the Dasyus, protected the colour of the Aryans; and again, Indra "unveiled
the light for the Aryas and the Dasyus was left on the left hand"

(ii. III 18). Let the student of Occultism bear in mind that the Greek Noah, Deukalion, the husband
of Pyrrha, was the reputed son of Prometheus who robbed Heaven of
its fire (i.e., of secret Wisdom "of the right hand," or occult knowledge);
that Prometheus is the brother of Atlas; that he is also the son of
Asia and of the Titan Iapetus--the antetype from which the Jews borrowed
their Japhet for the exigencies of their own popular legend to mask
its kabalistic, Chaldean meaning; and that he is also the antetype
of Deukalion.

Prometheus is the creator of man out of earth and water,* who after stealing fire from Olympus--a
mountain in Greece--is chained on a mount in the far-off Caucasus.

From Olympus to Mount Kazbek there is a considerable distance.

The Occultists say that while the 4th race was generated and developed on the Atlantean continent--our
Antipodes in a certain sense--the 5th was generated and developed in Asia. (The ancient Greek
geographer Strabo, for one, calls by the name of Ariana, the land of the Aryas, the whole country
between the Indian Ocean in the south, the Hindu Kush and Parapamisis in the north, the Indus
on the east, and the Caspian Gates, Karamania and the mouth of the Persian Gulf, on the west.)
The fable of Prometheus relates to the extinction of the civilized
portions of the 4th race, whom Zeus, in order to create a new race,
would destroy entirely, and Prometheus (who had the sacred fire of
knowledge) saved partially "for future seed."

But the origin of the fable antecedes the destruction of Poseidonis by more than seventy thousand
years, however incredible it may seem.

The seven great continents of the world, spoken of in the Vishnu Purana (B. II., cap. 2) include
Atlantis, though, of course, under another name.

Ila and Ira are synonymous Sanskrit terms (see Amarakosha), and both
mean earth or native soil; and Ilavrita is a portion of Ila, the central
point of India (Jambudvipa), the latter being itself the centre of
the seven great continents before the submersion of the great continent
of Atlantis, of which Poseidonis was but an insignificant remnant.

And now, while every Brahmin will understand the meaning, we may help the Europeans with a few more
explanations.

-------- * Behold Moses saying that it requires earth and water to make a living man. --------

If,
in that generally tabooed work, "Isis Unveiled," the "English F.T.S." turns to page 589, vol. I.,
he may find therein narrated another old Eastern legend. An island .... (where now the Gobi desert
lies) was inhabited by the last remnants of the race that preceded ours: a handful of "Adepts"--the
"Sons of God," now referred to as the Brahman Pitris; called by another yet synonymous name
in the Chaldean Kabala.

"Isis Unveiled" may appear very puzzling and contradictory to those who know nothing of Occult
Sciences. To the Occultist it is correct, and while perhaps left purposely sinning (for it was the
first cautious attempt to let into the West a faint streak of Eastern esoteric light), it reveals
more facts than were ever given before its appearance. Let any one read these pages and he may
comprehend. The "six such races" in Manu refer to the sub-races of the fourth race (p. 590).
In addition to this the reader must turn to the paper on "The Septenary Principle in Esotericism"
(p. 187 ante), study the list of the "Manus" of our fourth Round (p. 254), and between this
and "Isis" light may, perchance, be focused. On pages 590-6 of the work mentioned above, he will
find that Atlantis is mentioned in the "Secret Books of the East" (as yet virgin of Western spoliating
hand) under another name in the sacred hieratic or sacerdotal language. And then it will be shown
to him that Atlantis was not merely the name of one island but that
of a whole continent, of whose isles and islets many have to this
day survived.

The remotest ancestors of some of the inhabitants of the now miserable fisherman's hovel "Aclo"
(once Atlan), near the gulf of Uraha, were allied at one time as closely with the old Greeks and
Romans as they were with the "true inland China-man," mentioned on
p. 57 Of "Esoteric Buddhism."

Until the appearance of a map, published at Basle in 1522, wherein the name of America appears
for the first time, the latter was believed to be part of India; and strange to him who does not
follow the mysterious working of the human mind and its unconscious approximations to hidden truths--even
the aborigines of the new continent, the Red-skinned tribes, the
"Mongoloids" of Mr. Huxley, were named Indians.

Names now attributed to chance: elastic word that! Strange coincidence, indeed, to him who
does not know--science refusing yet to sanction the wild hypothesis--that there was a time when the
Indian peninsula was at one end of the line, and South America at the other, connected by a
belt of islands and continents.

The India of the prehistoric ages was not only within the region at the sources of the Oxus
and Jaxartes, but there was even in the days of history, and within its memory, an upper, a
lower, and a western India: and still earlier it was doubly connected with the two Americas.
The lands of the ancestors of those whom Ammianus Marcellinus calls
the "Brahmans of Upper India" stretched from Kashmir far into the
(now) deserts of Schamo.

A pedestrian from the north might then have reached--hardly wetting
his feet--the Alaskan Peninsula, through Manchooria, across the future
Gulf of Tartary, the Kurile and Aleutian Islands; while another traveler,
furnished with a canoe and starting from the south, could have walked
over from Siam, crossed the Polynesian Islands and trudged into any
part of the continent of South America.

On pp. 592-3 of "Isis," vol. I., the Thevetatas--the evil, mischievous gods that have survived
in the Etruscan Pantheon--are mentioned, along with the "sons of God" or Brahman Pitris. The
Involute, the hidden or shrouded gods, the Consentes, Complices,
and Novensiles, are all disguised relics of the Atlanteans; while
the Etruscan arts of soothsaying their Disciplina revealed by Tages
comes direct and in undisguised form from the Atlantean king Thevetat,
the "invisible"

Dragon, whose name survives to this day among the Siamese and Burmese, as also, in the Jataka allegorical
stories of the Buddhists as the opposing power under the name of
Devadat.

And Tages was the son of Thevetat, before he became the grandson of the Etruscan Jupiter-Tinia.
Have the Western Orientalists tried to find out the connection between
all these Dragons and Serpents; between the "powers of Evil" in the
cycles of epic legends, the Persian and the Indian, the Greek and
the Jewish; between the contests of Indra and the giant; the Aryan
Nagas and the Iranian Aji Dahaka; the Guatemalian Dragon and the Serpent
of Genesis--&c. &c. &c.?

Professor Max Muller discredits the connection. So be it. But the fourth race of men, "men" whose
sight was unlimited and who knew all things at once, the hidden as the unrevealed, is mentioned
in the Popol-Vuh, the sacred books of the Guatemalians; and the Babylonian
Xisuthrus, the far later Jewish Noah, the Hindu Vaivaswata, and the
Greek Deukalion, are all identical with the great Father of the Thlinkithians,
of Popol-Vuh who, like the rest of these allegorical (not mythical)
Patriarchs, escaped in his turn and in his days, in a large boat at
the time of the last great Deluge--the submersion of Atlantis.

To have been an Indo-Aryan, Vaivaswata had not, of necessity, to meet with his Saviour (Vishnu,
under the form of a fish) within the precincts of the present India, or even anywhere on the Asian continent;
nor is it necessary to concede that he was the seventh great Manu himself (see catalogue of
the Manus, in the paper on "The Septenary Principle in Esotericism" cited above), but simply
that the Hindu Noah belonged to the clan of Vaivaswata and typifies the fifth race. Now the
last of the Atlantean islands perished some 11,000 years ago; and the fifth race headed by
the Aryans began its evolution, to the certain knowledge of the "Adepts" nearer one million than
900,000 years ago. But the historian and the anthropologist with their utmost stretch of liberality
are unable to give more than from twenty to one hundred thousand years for all our human evolution.
Hence we put it to them as a fair question: at what point during
their own conjectural lakh of years do they fix the root-germ of the
ancestral line of the "old Greeks and Romans?"

Who were they? What is known or even "conjectured" about their territorial habitat after the division
of the Aryan nations?

And where were the ancestors of the Semitic and Turanian races?

It is not enough for purposes of refutation of other peoples' statements
to say that the latter lived separate from the former, and then come
to a full stop--a fresh hiatus in the ethnological history of mankind.

Since Asia is sometimes called the Cradle of Humanity, and it is an ascertained fact that Central
Asia was likewise the cradle of the Semitic and Turanian races (for
thus it is taught in Genesis), and we find the Turans agreeably to
the theory evolved by the Assyriologists preceding the Babylonian
Semitists, where, at what spot of the globe, did these Semito-Turanian
nations break away from the parent stock, and what has become of the
latter?

It cannot be the small Jewish tribe of Patriarchs; and unless it
can be shown that the garden of Eden was also on the Oxus or the Euphrates,
fenced off from the soil inhabited by the children of Cain, philologists
who undertake to fill in the gaps in Universal History with their
made-up conjectures, may be regarded as ignorant of this detail as
those they would enlighten.

Logically, if the ancestors of these various groups had been at that
remote period massed together, then the self-same roots of a parent
common stock would have been equally traceable in their perfected
languages as they are in those of the Judo-Europeans.

And so, since whichever way one turns, one is met with the same troubled sea of speculation,
margined by the treacherous quicksands of hypothesis, and every horizon bounded by inferential
landmarks inscribed with imaginary dates.

Again, the "Adepts" ask why should any one be awed into accepting
as final criterion that which passes for science of high authority
in Europe?

For all this is known to the Asiatic scholar--in every case save the purely mathematical and physical
sciences--as little better than a secret league for mutual support,
and, perhaps, admiration.

He bows with profound respect before the Royal Societies of Physicists, Chemists, and, to a degree,
even of Naturalists.

He refuses to pay the slightest attention to the merely speculative and conjectural so-called "sciences"
of the modern Physiologist, Ethnologist, Philologist, &c., and the
mob of self-styling Oedipuses to whom it is not given to unriddle
the Sphynx of Nature, and who therefore throttle her.

With an eye to the above, as also with a certain prevision of the
future, the defendants in the cases under examination believe that
the "historical difficulty" with reference to the non-historical statement,
necessitated more than a simple reaffirmation of the fact.

They knew that with no better claims to a hearing than may be accorded by the confidence of
a few, and in view of the decided antagonism of the many, it would never do for them to say
"we maintain" while Western professors maintained to the contrary. For a body of, so to say,
unlicensed preachers and students of unauthorized and unrecognized sciences to offer to fight
an August body of universally recognized oracles, would be an unprecedented piece of impertinence.
Hence their respective claims had to be examined on however small a scale to begin with (in
this as in all other cases) on other than psychological grounds. The "Adepts" in Occult Arts
had better keep silence when confronted with the "A.C.S.'s"--Adepts in Conjectural Sciences--unless
they could show, partially at least, how weak is the authority of the latter and on what foundations
of shifting sands their scientific dicta are often built. They may thus make it a thinkable conjecture
that the former may be right after all. Absolute silence, moreover, as at present advised, would
have been fatal.

Besides risking to be construed into inability to answer, it might have given rise to new complaints
among the faithful few, and lead to fresh charges of selfishness against the writers. Therefore
have the "Adepts" agreed to smooth in part at least a few of the
most glaring difficulties and showing a highway to avoid them in future
by studying the non-historical but actual, instead of the historical
but mythical, portions of Universal History.

And this they have achieved, they believe (at any rate with a few of their querists), by simply
showing, or rather reminding them, that since no historical fact can stand as such against
the "assumption" of the "Adepts"-- historians being confessedly ignorant of pre-Roman and Greek
origins beyond the ghostly shadows of the Etruscans and Pelasgians--no
real historical difficulty can be possibly involved in their statement.

From objectors outside the Society, the writers neither demand nor do they expect mercy. The "Adept"
has no favours to ask at the hands of conjectural science, nor does
he exact from any member of the "London Lodge" blind faith: it being
his cardinal maxim that faith should only follow inquiry.

The "Adept" is more than content to be allowed to remain silent, keeping what he may know to
himself, unless worthy seekers wish to share it. He has so done for
ages, and can do so for a little longer.

Moreover, he would rather not "arrest attention" or "command respect" at present. Thus he leaves
his audience to first verify his statements in every case by the
brilliant though rather wavering light of modern science: after which
his facts may be either accepted or rejected, at the option of the
willing student.

In short, the "Adept"--if one indeed--has to remain utterly unconcerned
with, and unmoved by, the issue.

He imparts that which it is lawful for him to give out, and deals
but with facts.

The philological and archeological "difficulties" next demand attention.

Philological

and Archeological "Difficulties"

Two questions are blended into one. Having shown the reasons why the Asiatic student is prompted
to decline the guidance of Western History, it remains to explain his contumacious obstinacy
in the same direction with regard to philology and archeology. While expressing the sincerest
admiration for the clever modern methods of reading the past histories of nations now mostly
extinct, and following the progress and evolution of their respective languages, now dead,
the student of Eastern occultism, and even the profane Hindu scholar acquainted with his national
literature, can hardly be made to share the confidence felt by Western
philologists in these conglutinative methods, when practically applied
to his own country and Sanskrit literature.

Three facts, at least, out of many are well calculated to undermine his faith in these Western
methods:--

1. Of some dozens of eminent Orientalists, no two agree, even in their verbatim translation of
Sanskrit texts. Nor is there more harmony shown in their interpretation of the possible meaning
of doubtful passages.

2. Though Numismatics is a less conjectural branch of science, and when starting from well-established
basic dates, so to say, an exact one (since it can hardly fail to yield correct chronological
data, in our case, namely, Indian antiquities); archeologists have
hitherto failed to obtain any such position.

On their own confession, they are hardly justified in accepting the Samvat and Salivahana
eras as their guiding lights, the real initial points of both being beyond the power of the
European Orientalists to verify; yet all the same, the respective dates "of 57 B.C. and 78 A.D."
are accepted implicitly, and fanciful ages thereupon ascribed to archeological remains.

3. The greatest authorities upon Indian archeology and architecture-- General Cunningham and Mr.
Fergusson--represent in their conclusions the two opposite poles. The province of archeology
is to provide trustworthy canons of criticism, and not, it should seem, to perplex or puzzle.
The Western critic is invited to point to one single relic of the past in India, whether written
record or inscribed or uninscribed monument, the age of which is not disputed. No sooner has
one archeologist determined a date--say the first century--than another tries to pull it forward
to the 10th or perhaps the 14th century of the Christian era. While General Cunningham ascribes
the construction of the present Buddha Gaya temple to the 1st century after Christ--the opinion
of Mr. Fergusson is that its external form belongs to the 14th century;
and so the unfortunate outsider is as wise as ever.

Noticing this discrepancy in a "Report on the Archeological Survey of India" (vol. viii. p.
60), the conscientious and capable Buddha-Gaya Chief Engineer, Mr. J.D. Beglar, observes that
"notwithstanding his (Fergusson's) high authority, this opinion must be unhesitatingly set aside,"
and forthwith assigns the building under notice to the 6th century. While the conjectures of
one archeologist are termed by another "hopelessly wrong," the identifications of Buddhist relics
by this other are in their turn denounced as "quite untenable." And so in the case of every
relic of whatever age.

When the "recognized" authorities agree--among themselves at least--then will it be time to show them
collectively in the wrong. Until then, since their respective conjectures can lay no claim to
the character of history, the "Adepts" have neither the leisure nor the disposition to leave weightier
business to combat empty speculations, in number as many as there
are pretended authorities.

Let the blind lead the blind, if they will not accept the light.*

-------- * However, it will be shown elsewhere that General Cunningham's
latest conclusions about the date of Buddha's death are not all supported
by the inscriptions newly discovered.--T. Subba Row.

---------

As in the "historical," so in this new "archeological difficulty,"
namely, the apparent anachronism as to the date of our Lord's birth,
the point at issue is again concerned with the "old Greeks and Romans."

Less ancient than our Atlantean friends, they seem more dangerous inasmuch as they have become
the direct allies of philologists in our dispute over Buddhist annals. We are notified by Prof.
Max Muller, by sympathy the most fair of Sanskritists as well as the most learned--and with whom,
for a wonder, most of his rivals are found siding in this particular question--that "everything
in Indian chronology depends on the date of Chandragupta,"--the Greek Sandracottus.


Cucurullo sprang up and ran on tip-toe to the window, instantly fearing the arrival of mounted
pursuers; but he only saw the stablemen leading out the post-horses to be watered and groomed.
When he turned to come back he saw that he had waked Stradella, who was sitting up, yawning
prodigiously, and rubbing his eyes like a sleepy boy. He raised his hand to stop his man, and
then got up without noise and joined him near the window.

'What is it?' he asked in a whisper, not without some anxiety.

'Only the post-horses, sir, but I was afraid of something else.'

'I wish we were already in Florence. This is too near Venice!'

'Better still in Rome,' said Cucurullo, gloomily. 'Still better in Sicily, and altogether much
better in Africa; but best of all in heaven, sir, if you can manage to get there!'

'It is not the first time you and I have run a risk together,' observed Stradella, slowly moving
the back of his hand up and down against his unshaven cheek.

'It is the first time you have risked the life of a lady,' answered Cucurullo quietly, for
he understood his master very well.

'We had better go down and see about getting horses,' Stradella answered, and he led the way
to the stairs, his man following in his footsteps.

The sun was rising now, and there was much bustling and clattering in the yard, and sousing
and splashing of cold water about the fountain; a dozen horses were tied up to rings in the
wall on one side, and the stablemen were grooming some of them industriously while others waited
their turn, stamping now and then upon the cobble-stones, and turning their heads as far as
they could to see what was going on behind them and on each side. Three men were washing the
huge coach that ran to Rovigo one day and back the next, and several smaller conveyances stood
beyond it in a row, still covered with dust from yesterday, for the weather had been dry.

As in many inns of that time, the innkeeper was also the postmaster. Stradella found him under
the arched entrance to the yard, giving instructions to the cook, who was just going to the
market accompanied by a scullion; the latter carried three empty baskets on his head, one inside
of the other.

'You can have no horses to-day,' said the host, in answer to Stradella's demand, and he shook
his head emphatically.

'No horses! It is impossible! It is absolutely necessary that we should go on at once.'

The innkeeper was a square-shouldered Romagnole with grey hair, red cheeks, and sharp black
eyes. He shook his head again.

'I have not a horse to give you,' he said. 'Everything in my stable was engaged beforehand
for the Nuncio. I cannot give you the Government's horses from the Rovigo coach, can I? Patience!
That is all I can say.'

Stradella began to ask questions. The Nuncio, on his way to Verona and Austria, had spent three
days in the inn, both to rest himself and also to be sure of having enough horses ahead to
go on with, and word had been sent to Mantua to make all the necessary arrangements. He should
have gone by Modena, but the road was in a bad state. A bridge had broken down, and he had
been forced to pass through Ferrara.

'But surely,' said the musician, 'I can hire a pair of horses of some sort in the town, by
paying a good price for them!'

No. The Nuncio had hired everything. Did the gentleman suppose that a Papal Nuncio could travel
with as few as eight or ten horses? He needed about fifty in all. That was why he proceeded
so slowly. There was not another animal to be had in the town, horse or mule, that could be
put to a wheeled vehicle--not one! The gentleman might hire a riding-horse or two, but the
innkeeper had been told that he had a lady and her tire-woman with him. Patience! A day would
soon pass, Ferrara was a fine town, well worth seeing, and he could go on to-morrow morning
in the Bologna coach, which would arrive from that city at noon to-day.

Clearly there was not the smallest possibility of being able to get on during the next twenty-four
hours. Stradella's face was very grave as he turned away, and Cucurullo was paler than before.

Upstairs Ortensia had wakened just then and had called Pina, who got up and opened the window
wide, letting in the air with the morning sun. Utterly unprovided as the two women were, they
had slept half-dressed, and as Ortensia rose the nurse threw one of the two brown cloaks over
her bare shoulders and fastened it round her neck.

For a few moments after she had opened her eyes the young girl had not quite understood where
she was, for she had lain down exhausted, and sleep had come to her as her head touched the
pillow. Now, in the broad daylight, when she had plunged her face into cold water, she realised
everything, and the colour rose slowly to her throat and cheeks. She went to the window and
stood there, turned away from Pina and looked out. Below her lay the chief public square of
the city; on the left rose the huge castle, the most gloomy and forbidding she had ever seen.
She had never heard of Nicholas Third of Este nor of his wife Parisina, fair, evil, and ill-fated,
nor of handsome Ugo, who died an hour before her for his sins and hers, in the dark chamber
at the foot of the Lion Tower; but if Pina had known the story and had told it to her in all
its horror, Ortensia would have felt that it must be true, and that only such tragedies as
that could happen within such walls. They were so stern, so square, so dark; the towers rose
so grimly out of the black waters of the moat! It was of bad augury to look at them, she thought,
and she drew back from the window and sat down where she could see only the sky.

Pina was making such preparations for her mistress's toilet as were possible. Being a prudent
woman she had brought in her pocket three objects of the highest usefulness, a piece of white
Spanish soap, a comb, and a shabby little old rolling work-case of yellow leather, in which
there were needles and thread and pins. The figure of a wild animal, which might have been
meant for a bear, was embroidered in black thread on the outer flap of the case. Pina had used
it ever since Ortensia could remember, and seemed to value it as much as any of her few possessions.
It was a very useful little thing, and she kept it always well filled with sewing materials.

As the young girl did not move and showed no inclination to dress herself, Pina came behind
her and began to let down and comb her hair, which she had not even taken down on the previous
night, being far too much exhausted to think of such a thing. She submitted her head willingly
to the skilled hands of her nurse.

'Where is he?' she asked after a time, and she felt that she was blushing again.

'They slept on the floor in the passage,' Pina answered. 'Perhaps they are asleep still. You
shut your eyes as soon as you lay down, but I opened the door again and looked out before I
went to bed. Signor Alessandro asked me if we needed anything, and then said good-night.'

'Will you go and see if they are still there, please?'

Pina crossed the room, drew back the bolt, and put out her head, looking up and down the passage.
There was no one to be seen, and she shut the door again without bolting it. She came back
and again began to comb out the girl's hair.

'They are not there,' she said. 'Probably Signor Alessandro is ordering the horses. He will
come in a few minutes and tell us at what time we are to start.'

A short silence followed.

'Have you ever been here before?' Ortensia asked presently.

'Yes,' Pina answered, 'I have been here before. I do not like Ferrara.'

'Why not? Have you any particular reason for not liking it?'

'It was here that my thumb was hurt,' said the nurse. 'That is a fair reason, is it not?' She
laughed rather harshly. 'To hate a place because one has had an accident in it! The men would
say that is just like a woman!'

'I hope I may never come here again, either,' Ortensia answered. 'How did you hurt your thumb?'

'That is a long story, my lady. But why do you also dislike the place already? You have only
looked out of the window once.'

'I saw the castle, and I thought it was of bad augury, for it looks like a great prison.'

'There are prisons in it without any light, very deep down,' said Pina quietly. 'The Pope's
Legate lives in the upper part. The Legate is the Papal Governor, you know, my lady.'

'I did not know. But the ugly castle is not the real reason why I do not like Ferrara. I could
not tell any one else, but I think I can tell you, Pina.'

She turned her head half round under the nurse's hands, looked up sideways, and then hesitated.
It was not easy to explain.

'What is it, my lady?' asked the serving-woman. 'You can tell old Pina anything.'

'It is all so different from what I thought it would be,' Ortensia said in a rather low voice,
and again a blush rose in her cheek.

'I think I understand,' Pina said, steadily combing out the heavy auburn hair.

'You see,' Ortensia explained, 'we all four got into the gondola together, and there was that
long row to the land, and that dreadful night in the cart on the road to Padua--and then the
half-hour at daybreak, while he was getting the carriage, and then the journey here--and last
night--and now----'

She did not finish the sentence, hoping that Pina would really understand.

'Yes,' the woman said quietly. 'You have not been alone together for a moment since we left
Venice, and that is not what you expected.'

'No,' Ortensia answered in the hurt tone of a disappointed child, 'I thought it was going to
be quite different! And now we shall start again and drive all day and half the night, and
then it will be just the same, I suppose!'

'Once in Florence, or even in Bologna, there will be no more hurry,' said Pina in a consoling
tone. 'Besides, my lady, you can be properly married then.'

'Of course, of course! We shall be married as soon as we can, but all the same----'

'All the same, it would be pleasant to spend half-an-hour together without old Pina always
listening and looking on!'

The nurse smiled and shook her head, but Ortensia could not see her, and did not think her
tone was very encouraging; it sounded as if 'old Pina' thought it was going to be her duty
to play chaperon two or three days longer, which was not at all what Ortensia wished.

'If he had even shown that he was a little disappointed, too----' the girl began, and then
she stopped.

'That would not have been good manners, my lady,' Pina said primly. 'When a gentleman has carried
off a young lady, with her own consent, the least he can do is to look pleased, I am sure!'

'I thought you would understand better,' Ortensia answered in a tone of disappointment.

Some one knocked at the door, not loudly but sharply, and as if in a hurry; Pina went at once
to see who it was, and found Stradella himself outside.

'May I come in?' he asked quickly.

Beyond Pina, as he looked in, he saw Ortensia in her brown cloak, with her hair down and all
combed out over her shoulders, and without waiting for an answer he pushed past the nurse and
went to her. Instinctively she drew the cloak more closely round her, but she looked up with
a bright smile, which vanished when she saw his expression in the strong light. He spoke anxiously,
without even a word of greeting.

'There are no horses to be had,' he said. 'I have done my best, but the Pope's Nuncio is passing
through and has engaged everything there was. There is not even a public coach to Bologna till
to-morrow morning. I am more distressed than I can tell you! I have sent my man out to see
if he can find anything, and he will if there is a beast to be had. If not, we shall have to
wait here.'

While he was speaking, the door had closed softly and Pina was gone. Ortensia saw her go out
and put out one hand timidly between the folds of the cloak, for her arm was bare, and she
tried to cover it. At the same time the glorious colour rose in her face, the third time since
she had opened her eyes that morning.

'I am glad,' she said simply, as soon as her hand was in his.

He glanced behind him and saw that Pina had disappeared. Then without a word he drew the lovely
girl up to him, and for a while they stood clasped in each other's arms; and she forgot that
hers were bare, and he scarcely knew it; and if their faces drew back one from the other for
a few seconds, it was that their eyes might meet in one another's depths; and the broad morning
sun shone full upon the two through the open window, making the girl's auburn hair blaze like
dark red gold, and a white radiance glowed in her pure forehead and snowy arms.

Stradella shivered a little, even in the sunshine, as he let her go, and she sank upon her
chair, finding his hand again and holding it fast as if she feared lest he should leave her.
It had been a strange wooing, in which song had played a greater part than words; and as for
anything else, he had kissed her twice on that night when he had climbed into the loggia, and
not again till now. Had he loved her less, he would have laughed at himself for the innocence
of such a love-making; but it was all unlike anything that had ever happened to him before,
and, moreover, he had no time for such reflections at the present moment, since every hour
of delay might mean the nearer approach of danger, not to him only, but to Ortensia herself.

'We are not far enough from Venice,' he said, when he spoke at last. 'I would give the world
to have you safe in Florence!'

'My uncle will not even try to catch us,' Ortensia said calmly. 'You do not know him. When
he finds out that we are gone together he will fear a scandal, and he fears ridicule still
more. He will tell his friends that he has sent me to the country, or to a convent, and by
and by he will tell them that I am dead. He dreads nothing in the world so much as being laughed
at!'

She was so sure that she laughed herself as she thought of him, and almost wished that he might
hear her, though he was certainly the very last person she wished to see just then. But Stradella
thought otherwise.

'No one would laugh at him if he had you assassinated,' he said.

'I am not afraid of that!' Ortensia smiled at the mere idea of such a thing. 'Why are you standing?
Come, bring that chair and sit down beside me, for we are alone at last!'

He was well used to women's ways, but the ways of grown women of the world are not those of
innocent maidens of seventeen; her perfect simplicity and fearlessness were quite new to him,
and had a wonderful charm of their own. He drew a chair to the window and sat down close to
her, and afterwards he was glad that he had done as she wished.

It was all very strange, he thought even then. As yet, a love-affair had mostly meant for him
a round of more or less dangerous adventures by night, such as climbing of balconies, unlocking
of forbidden doors with stolen keys, imprisonment in dark closets and wardrobes, and sometimes
flight in break-neck haste. That had usually been the material side, whereas now, reckoning
up his risks, he had only climbed once to a loggia at night, and once he had been taken for
a thief and chased, and that was all, excepting the actual escape from Venice, which had been
without danger until now. On the other hand, there had stood to love's credit, as against those
insignificant perils, only two kisses and no more, exchanged when he had been so drenched with
rain that it had been quite out of the question to put a dripping arm round his lady's waist.

And now, for the first time in his life, he was suddenly alone with an innocent girl of seventeen
who loved him, and whom he loved even to the point of having carried her off out of her house;
he was alone with her, in her own room, when she had but just risen from sleep, and she was
sitting beside him in the early sunshine, that wove a blaze of glory round her young beauty,
and her soft white hand held his; and he was not satisfied as she was, but wished it were night
instead of day, and wished the sun were the moon, and that there were sweet silence without
instead of the thousand cries and echoes of a waking Italian city. For all he had ever known
of joy on earth, or ever hoped for, he would not have wished that Ortensia's face could change
into any that had once been dear to him under the summer moonlight of the south; yet he felt
strangely constrained and awkward, like a schoolboy in love, not knowing what to do or say
in the overwhelming daylight.

'You are not glad, as I am,' Ortensia said after the long silence.

At the sound of her voice he found himself again, and he lifted her hand and pressed it to
his lips.

'I am afraid for you,' he answered. 'When a man has taken the most precious thing in the whole
world, and carries it with him through an enemy's country, he may well be afraid lest some
harm come to it on the way.'

'But this is not the enemy's country!' laughed Ortensia, too happy to be serious. 'Are we not
a hundred miles from Venice and my uncle?'

'They say the Republic has long arms, love, and the Senator can count on every one of the Ten
to help him. The law cannot touch us merely for having run away together, it is true, but what
if he invents a crime? What if he swears that we have robbed him? The Pope's Government will
not harbour thieves nor shelter criminals against the justice of Venice! We should be arrested
and given up, that is all, and then sent back! This is what I fear much more than that he should
have us tracked and murdered by assassins, as many Venetians would do in this civilised age!'

'But we have taken nothing,' Ortensia objected, quite unable to be afraid of anything while
her hand was in his. 'How can he accuse us of robbing him? Pina and I have a comb and piece
of soap between us! As for money, she may have a little small change, for all I know, but I
have nothing.'

'I have a good deal,' Stradella answered; 'quite enough to justify such an accusation as that.
But, after all, nothing can hinder such a thing, if it is going to be. I dare say you are right--it
is my anxiety for you that makes me think of everything that might happen.'

'Nothing will happen,' Ortensia said softly, 'nothing will happen to part us!'

Still holding his hand, she gazed into his eyes with an expression of ecstatic happiness, and
she could not have found another word, even if she had needed speech; then suddenly her bare
arm circled his neck like a flash of white light, for he was very close to her, and she took
him unawares and kissed him first.

She laid her head upon his breast a moment later, and he pressed her to him and buried his
face in her sweet auburn hair. His heart overflowed in many soft and loving words.

The door opened while he was speaking, and both started and sat upright, expecting to see Pina,
and ashamed to be surprised even by her. Then Ortensia uttered a sharp cry and Stradella sprang
to his feet.

Two big men in rusty black and long boots had entered the room, and were advancing. They were
broad-shouldered men, of a determined bearing, with sinister faces, and both wore swords and
kept their slouch hats on their heads. Stradella was unarmed, and could only stand before Ortensia,
awaiting their onset, for he had not a doubt but that they were Bravi sent by Pignaver to murder
him. To his surprise they stopped before him, and one of them spoke.

'You had better come quietly with us,' the man said.

Stradella understood at once that the two intruders were sbirri, come to arrest him, and he
was sure that Pignaver had pursued precisely the course he had explained to Ortensia, and that
he was going to be accused of robbery.

'I am a Sicilian and a Spanish subject,' he said. 'By what right do you dare to arrest me?'

'We know very well that you are a Sicilian, Master Bartolo,' answered the man. 'And as for
the rest, it is known to you, so come with us and make no trouble, or it will be the worse
for you.'

'My name is not Bartolo!' cried the musician indignantly. 'I am Alessandro Stradella, the singer.'

'Any one can say that,' replied the man. 'Come along! No nonsense, now!'

'I tell you, I am Stradella----'

But the man glanced at his companion, and the two had him by his arms in an instant, though
he struggled desperately. They were very strong fellows, and between them could have thrown
a horse, and though Stradella was supple and quick, he was powerless between them.

During the short exchange of words Ortensia had leaned back against the window-sill in frightened
surprise, but when she saw her lover suddenly pinioned and dragged towards the door, she flew
at the sbirri like a tigress, and buried her fingers in the throat of the nearest, springing
upon him from behind. The fellow shook her off as a bull-terrier would a rat, and, while keeping
his hold on the prisoner with one hand, he tripped her roughly with his foot and the other,
by a common professional trick, throwing her heavily upon the brick floor. Before she could
rise, the men had got Stradella outside, and as she struggled to her feet she heard the key
turned, and knew that she was locked in. In wild despair she beat upon the solid panels with
her small fists, but no one answered her. Stradella's man was scouring the town for horses,
and Pina was not within hearing.

Meanwhile the singer had submitted, as soon as he realised that he had no chance of escape,
and that, unless the men were acting a part, he had been taken for a man called Bartolo, and
would be able to explain the mistake as soon as he was brought before a responsible officer
or magistrate. Indeed, when this view presented itself to him, he was only anxious to facilitate
the course of events as much as possible, and spoke civilly to his captors, while walking quietly
downstairs between them; but they did not let go of his arms for that reason.

Below, in the arched entrance, the innkeeper was waiting, in conversation with three other
sbirri, dressed and armed much in the same manner as the two who had made the arrest.

'It is a mistake,' Stradella said to the host. 'I am taken for another man, and as soon as
I have explained who I am, I shall return. I shall be obliged if you will attend to the wants
of the lady and her serving-woman.'

'Guests who quit the house without paying their score generally leave their luggage as security,'
answered the host with an insulting sneer, and pointing towards the entrance.

There, to his surprise, Stradella saw two sturdy porters, laden with his valises, his cloak,
and his lute, and evidently waiting to accompany him.

'What are you doing, you scoundrels?' he cried. 'Put down my things!'

But they only grinned and began to move on, and as he was hurried out of the door into the
square, they jogged across the square at a trot with their burdens. A few moments later he
followed them across the drawbridge of the castle and in under the great gate where a papal
soldier, armed with halberd and broadsword, was pacing up and down on guard.

Just as he disappeared, Pina emerged upon the square from a narrow street at its northern end,
and hastened to the entrance of the inn. The host was standing there, his legs apart, his arms
crossed, and his small black cap on one side of his head. He stopped Pina.

'Your master has changed his lodgings,' he said in a jocular tone, and pointing with his thumb
towards the castle. 'His Excellency the Legate has just taken him in free.'

Pina understood instantly, and drew back a step in consternation.

'If you mean to stay here, you must pay in advance,' continued the host, 'for your master has
taken all the luggage with him. Perhaps he expects to spend some time with the Legate.'

'But we have no money of our own!' Pina cried in great distress. 'What are we to do?'

'That is your affair,' answered the innkeeper. 'You have had your night's lodging from me,
and that is all you will get for nothing; so, unless you can pay, take your mistress somewhere
else.'

Pina bent her head, and went upstairs without more words. A quarter of an hour later she and
Ortensia left the inn, with the hoods of their brown cloaks drawn over their heads. The young
girl leaned on her nurse's arm, and walked unsteadily.

Their worldly possessions, besides the clothes they wore, consisted of a piece of Castile soap,
a comb, and Pina's work-case.

CHAPTER VIII

The Nuncio departed amidst a tremendous clatter of hoofs and rumbling of wheels, after being
accompanied to his coach by the Legate of Ferrara himself. The second coach was occupied by
his chaplains, and a third by his body-servants; in his own he took only his secretary; each
vehicle carried a part of his voluminous luggage. After the coaches rode the footmen, mounted
on all sorts of beasts, such as could be had, but wearing good liveries and all well armed.
A dozen papal troopers commanded by a sergeant brought up the rear.

The wizened little Legate bowed to the ground as the noisy procession started, for though he
wore a clerical dress he was only a layman, and the Nuncio was Archbishop of Kerasund, 'in
partibus infidelium,' and returned the Governor's salutations with a magnificent benediction
from the window of his coach. The papal halberdiers of the castle, all drawn up in line outside
the moat, saluted by laying their long halberds to the left at a sharp angle.

The Legate put on his three-cornered hat as the escort trotted away after the coaches, and
he stood rubbing his hands and watching the fast-disappearing procession of travellers, while
the guard formed in double file and awaited his pleasure, ready to follow him in.

He had scarcely reached middle age, but he looked like a dried-up little old man, with his
wrinkled face, his small red eyes, and his withered hands. No one who did not know him would
have taken him to be the tremendous personage he really was in Ferrara, invested with full
powers to represent his sovereign master, Pope Clement the Tenth; or rather the Pope's adopted
'nephew,' who was not his nephew at all, Cardinal Paluzzo Altieri, the real and visible power
in Rome. The truth was that the aged Pontiff was almost bedridden and was scarcely ever seen,
and he was only too glad to be relieved of all care and responsibility.

Monsignor Pelagatti, for that was the Legate's name, was a man of no distinguished extraction;
indeed, it would be more true to say that he had extracted himself from his original surroundings.
For it was by dint of laudable hard work as well as by virtue of certain useful gifts of mind
and character that he had raised himself above his family to a really important position. It
was commonly said in Rome that his father had been a highway robber and his mother a washerwoman,
and that his brother was even now a footman in service; but it is quite possible that the Roman
gossips knew more of his people than he did, seeing that he had declined to have anything to
do with his family ever since he had got his first place as assistant steward in the Paluzzo
household, before that family had been adopted and had received the name of Altieri from the
Pope; and this is all that need be said about his beginnings for the present.

In due time he went upstairs again, installed himself behind the long oak table in his office,
and took up the business of the day. A brown wooden crucifix stood before him, and at the foot
of it was placed his large leaden inkstand, well provided with pens, ink, and red sand for
blotting. At each end of the table sat a clerk; of these two, one was an untidy old man with
a weary face and snuff-stained fingers, the other was a particularly spruce young fellow, with
smug pink cheeks and carefully trimmed nails. The room had one high window to the north, from
which a cold and dreary light fell upon the table and the three men.

The Legate proceeded to transact current business, receiving in turn a number of officials
and citizens who came of their own accord, or were summoned, for various reasons, mostly connected
with the revenue. When he had dismissed them all, more or less satisfied or dissatisfied, as
the papal interests required, he ordered the officer at the door to send for the prisoner who
had been taken at the inn that morning.

'Let us see this famous Sicilian coiner,' he said, rubbing his hands and screwing up his little
red eyes. 'Bring up his effects, too, and send for a goldsmith with his touchstone and acids.'

He leaned back in his high chair to wait, and mentally ran over the questions he meant to ask.
The shabby old clerk took snuff, and sprinkled a liberal quantity of it on his spotted black
clothes and on the edge of the paper before him. His colleague at the other end occupied himself
in improving the point of his quill pen. In the silence, a huge spotted cat sprang upon the
table and calmly seated itself upright beside the crucifix, facing the Legate, who paid no
attention whatever to it. From time to time it blinked and slowly moved the yellow tip of its tail.

Presently Stradella was led in by the gaoler and his assistant. On his wrists there were manacles,
joined with each other by a strong chain which was highly polished by constant use. He was
bare-headed, of course, and he seemed perfectly cool and self-possessed. Immediately after
him, two men entered bringing his luggage, which was set down on the floor before the table.
The cat did not even turn to look at the people who had entered.

'What is your name?' asked the Legate, eyeing him sharply.

'Alessandro Stradella.'

Instead of writing down the answer the two clerks looked at their superior for instructions.

'His name is Bartolo,' the Legate said, in a decided tone.

'By your worship's leave, my name is Stradella,' protested the musician.

'You may note that this fellow Bartolo persists in calling himself Stradella,' said the Legate,
looking first at one clerk and then at the other.

'I am not Bartolo!' cried the musician indignantly. 'I am Alessandro Stradella, the singer,
well known to hundreds of people in Rome.'

'You see how he persists,' answered the Legate with an ironical smile. 'Write down what he
says as correctly as you can.'

Stradella saw that it was useless to protest, and that vehemence might be dangerous.

'By your leave,' he said more quietly, 'if you will loosen my hands and let me have my lute
there, I will prove what I say, by singing and playing to you.'

'Anybody can sing,' retorted Monsignor Pelagatti with profound contempt, and without even looking
at him. 'Write down that he has insulted this tribunal by offering to sing to the Legate and
his clerks--which low jesting is contempt of court, and nothing else. The man is either drunk
or insane.'

Stradella was speechless with anger and disgust, and his face grew very pale.

'Open his effects,' the Legate said, when the clerks' pens stopped moving.

Two of the sbirri at once unstrapped the valises, and laid out the contents on the long table
on each side of the Legate, neatly and in order. One of the bags contained clothes and personal
effects, but the other was almost entirely filled with manuscript compositions and a supply
of paper ruled for writing music. It also contained a leathern pouch stuffed full of gold ducats.

'There we have it!' exclaimed Monsignor Pelagatti. 'Is the goldsmith come?'

'He is waiting, your worship,' answered the officer at the door.

The goldsmith was ushered in, a grey-haired man, who still stooped when he had finished his
bow to the Legate. The latter ordered him to sit at the table and test the gold coins one by one.

'This fellow,' said Monsignor Pelagatti, by way of explanation, 'is the famous Sicilian coiner
of counterfeit money, Bartolo. Push the good ducats towards me, if you find any, and the false
coin towards the clerk at your elbow.'

The goldsmith glanced curiously at Stradella, and then took his small block of basalt and a
stoneware bottle of nitric acid from a leathern bag he carried, slung on his arm. The spotted
cat seemed interested in these objects, and after having gazed at them placidly for half a
minute, rose with deliberation, walked along the edge of the table, and sniffed at the stone
and the goldsmith's fingers. It then crossed to the Legate and sat down on his left, surveying
the prisoner with apparent satisfaction.

The Legate's eyes followed with keen interest the operations of the expert, who took one coin
after another from the pouch, rubbed it on the basalt, poured a drop of acid on the yellow
mark made by the gold, and then examined the wet spot closely to see how the colour changed;
and he shook his head each time and pushed ducat after ducat towards Monsignor Pelagatti, but
not a single one towards the clerk. The Legate's crooked fingers played absently with the coins
as they came to his side, arranging them in little piles, and the piles in patterns, almost
without glancing at them. The goldsmith worked quickly, but the ducats were many, for Stradella
had supplied himself plentifully with money before leaving Venice, and had drawn the whole
balance of the letter of credit he had brought with him from the banking-house of Chigi in Rome.

The sbirri and the two clerks eyed the gold longingly. Stradella stood motionless between his
keepers, wondering what would happen next, and never doubting but that the whole proceeding
had been inspired by Pignaver.

But what had really happened can be explained in a dozen words, and will show that the sharp
little Legate was acting in perfectly good faith. The truth was that a notorious Sicilian counterfeiter
who was described as a pale young man with black hair, and who went by the name of Bartolo,
was really travelling in the north of Italy, and had been heard of at Vicenza, whence it was
reported that he had set out in haste for Padua. The spies who were in pursuit of him learned
in the latter city that a dark young man with a pale complexion had hired an extra post for
Rovigo, in a very great hurry, and was spending money liberally, and after that it had been
easy to trace Stradella to the inn at Ferrara. One of the spies had ridden in before daybreak
and had warned the innkeeper not to let the musician have horses at any price, and had then
given information at the castle, which the Legate had received before sunrise, for he was an
early riser. For the rest, he always followed the time-honoured custom of considering every
prisoner guilty till he was proved innocent. In his opinion any criminal could call himself
a singer, and could very likely sing, too, if his life depended upon it. Moreover, a hundred
gold Apostolic florins had been offered for the capture of Bartolo, and the Legate meant to
have a share of the prize money.

By the time the goldsmith had tested all the coins and found these good, Monsignor Pelagatti
had also counted them over several times.

'Three hundred and ninety-one ducats,' he said, dictating to the clerks, 'were found amongst
the criminal's possessions, and were confiscated to the Papal Treasury.'

'But they are all good,' objected Stradella.

'Precisely,' answered the Legate. 'If anything was wanting to prove you guilty, it was this
fact. Could any one but an expert counterfeiter have in his possession three hundred and ninety-one
ducats without a single false one, in these dishonest days? But a coiner, whose nefarious business
it is to exchange counterfeit coin for genuine, is not to be deceived like an ordinary person.'

'But I drew the money from an honest bank in Venice----'

'Silence!' cried the Legate in a squeaky voice.

'Silence!' roared the gaolers and the sbirri with one accord, all looking at the musician together.

The spotted cat rose sleepily at the noise, arched its back and clawed the oak table, by way
of stretching itself.

'The counterfeiter Bartolo is duly committed for trial and will be sent to Rome in chains with
the next convoy of prisoners,' said the Legate, dictating. 'Till then,' he added, speaking
to the officer, 'put him into one of the cells at the foot of the Lion Tower. He is a criminal
of some note.'

It was worse than useless to attempt any further protest; the gaolers seized the singer by
his arms again, one on each side, and in ten minutes he was left to his own reflections, locked
up in a pitch-dark cell that smelt like a wet grave. They had brought a lantern with them,
and had shown him a stone seat, long enough to lie down upon, and at one end of it there was
a loose block of sandstone for a pillow, a luxury which had been provided for a political prisoner
who had passed some months in the cell under the last of the Este marquises, some eighty years
earlier, and which had doubtless been forgotten.

After he had been some time in the dark, Stradella saw that a very feeble glimmer was visible
through a square grated opening which he had noticed in the door when the gaoler was unlocking
it before entering. Even that would be some comfort, but the unlucky musician was too utterly
overcome to think of anything but Ortensia's danger, and his own fate sank to insignificance
when compared with hers; for he was sure that Pignaver's agents must have seized her as soon
as he himself had been taken away, and he dared not think of what would happen when they brought
her back to Venice and delivered her up to her uncle. That they would murder the defenceless
girl he did not believe, and besides, it was much more likely that Pignaver would prefer to
torment her to death at his leisure, after assassinating her lover. Stradella guessed as much
as that from what he knew of the Senator's character.

As for himself, when he was able to reflect soberly after being several hours alone in the
dark, the singer came to the conclusion that he was in no immediate danger of his life, though
he owed his present imprisonment to his enemy. It looked as if he stood a good chance of being
sent to Rome, as Bartolo the counterfeiter, to be tried; but once there, he would have no difficulty
in obtaining his liberation, for he was well known to many distinguished persons, including
Cardinal Altieri himself. Pignaver had cleverly cut short his flight in order to take Ortensia
from him, but to accomplish this the Senator had been obliged to put off the murder he doubtless
contemplated. Stradella's life would probably be attempted in Rome, as soon as he was free,
but meanwhile he could not but admit that the Senator had succeeded in making him exceedingly
uncomfortable, merely from a material point of view. It was not likely that prisoners were
sent to Rome more than once a month, and the last convoy had perhaps left yesterday. He might
have to spend thirty days in the cell.

As the hours passed he forgot himself again, and thought only of Ortensia. In his imagination
he fancied her already far on her way to Rovigo in the jolting coach with her captors; in the
very coach, perhaps, in which he had brought her to Ferrara only last night. He called up her
face, and saw it as pale as death; her eyes were half closed and her lips sharp-drawn with
pain. He could hardly bear to think of her suffering, but not to think of her he could not
bear at all.

He did not know how long he had been locked up, when he noticed that the faint glimmer at the
grated hole was almost gone, and suddenly he felt horribly hungry, in spite of his misery,
for it was nearly twenty-four hours since he had tasted food. The gaolers had brought a little
bread and a jug of water, and had set them down on the ground at one end of the bench. He felt
about till he found them, and he gnawed the tough crust voraciously, though it tasted of the
damp earth on which it had lain since morning.

After a long time he fell asleep with the stone pillow under his head.

CHAPTER IX

Cucurullo came back to the inn in less than an hour after Pina and Ortensia had left it. In
spite of the asseverations of the innkeeper, he had found that there were horses to be had
in plenty in the city, and that it was merely a question of choice and of paying well for the
accommodation. He was hastening upstairs to tell this to Stradella when he was stopped by the
host himself, who informed him that Stradella was imprisoned in the castle, and that the lady
and her serving-woman had just gone away on foot.

'You had better melt away yourself,' the innkeeper concluded in a confidential tone, 'unless
you wish to be clapped into prison too.'

Cucurullo had betrayed no surprise at what the host told him, and he did not seem inclined
to pay any immediate attention to the latter's advice, though it was distinctly friendly. He
was used to that, for few Italians would care to incur the hatred of a hunch-backed man, who
is supposed to bring good luck to those who treat him well, and to dispose of the mysterious
curses of the Evil Eye for wreaking vengeance on those who injure him. Cucurullo stood still
on the stairs, in deep thought, after the innkeeper had ceased speaking.

'What is the name of the Legate?' he inquired, looking up at last.

'Pelagatti,' answered the other. 'He is from the South, they say; though, between you and me,
he looks more like a rat than a Christian. Monsignor Luigi Pelagatti, that is his name.'

Again Cucurullo was silent, apparently more absorbed in his thoughts than ever.

'Come, come!' cried the innkeeper in an encouraging tone. 'You need not be so down-hearted!
I will have a good meal cooked for you, and if you need a little ready money for your journey,
it is at your disposal. A clever fellow like you will soon find another place.'

By way of laying in a stock of luck for the day, he patted the deformed man's hump as he spoke,
but he awaited the answer with evident concern, for it was fortunate to have a hunch-backed
man eat and drink in one's house; a hunch-backed woman, on the contrary, always brought evil
with her, and should be driven from the door.

Cucurullo's reply was not only of favourable omen, but announced a piece of unexpected good-fortune.

'You are very obliging,' he said, 'and I shall be glad of a mouthful at noon. As for your kind
offer to lend me money, I thank you heartily, but I am well provided, and wish to pay my master's
bill here before accepting your friendly offer of a dinner. My master always trusts me with
a few ducats to pay his small expenses.'

The innkeeper congratulated himself on having patted the man's hump, for it was clear that
the good luck which at once befell him could be traced to no other source. He now inwardly
cursed his haste in turning Ortensia and Pina out of the house, since Cucurullo was perhaps
in a position to have paid their score for some time. Of this, however, the host could not
be quite sure, for the serving-man did not show his purse, but only produced some loose silver
from the pocket of his wide brown breeches.

'I shall charge nothing for the lady's use of the room,' said the innkeeper magnanimously.
'You came with three horses from Rovigo, I believe; there is their feed, and the supper of
the postillion, who left in an hour. That is all. Three pauls will pay for everything.'

'You are very obliging,' Cucurullo said again, as he paid the money. 'Your charges are very
moderate. Since you act in such a friendly manner, I will tell you something.'

Thereupon Cucurullo laid one of his large hands gently on the innkeeper's sleeve, and looked
up earnestly into the latter's face; and when he was very much in earnest, his large blue eyes
had a peculiar expression, which lent great weight to what he said.

'A friendly act deserves a friendly return,' he said, 'for, as we say in the South, "one hand
washes the other and both wash the face." My master has been arrested by mistake. He is really
and truly the famous Maestro Stradella, and is a great favourite with the Roman Court, for
he has sung to His Holiness himself and often to His Eminence Cardinal Altieri. Therefore,
if any harm comes to him in Ferrara through the ignorance of Monsignor Pelagatti, there will
be trouble for you, since the Legate will be severely reprimanded, and will make those persons
who gave him wrong information pay for his scolding. As you have shown me kindness, I tell
you these things beforehand, because I know them for certain. Do you understand?'

The innkeeper not only understood, but began to feel uncomfortable at the thought of being
called to account even for his small share in Stradella's arrest. As for the spy who had made
the mistake, his lot would not be enviable if he was within the Legate's reach when the error
was discovered.

'Pardon the question, my dear friend,' said the host in an extremely gentle tone, 'but are
you quite sure of these things?'

'Altogether sure,' was the answer. 'I have been in the Maestro's service since he first began
to be famous. He saved my life at the risk of his own, and I have served him five years come
the Feast of Saint John. I therefore know that he is not a Sicilian counterfeiter! If you have
any means of reaching the Legate, therefore, it would be well to set him right at once in this
matter. He will be the more grateful, or, at least, the less angry, if my master is detained
in prison for a few hours only.'

The innkeeper saw the wisdom of this, on the supposition that Cucurullo was speaking the truth,
but of that he was not quite sure. It was a bad world, he reflected, and the counterfeiter
might have a clever hunchback for a servant, with a knack of fixing his eyes as Cucurullo did,
and of putting great earnestness into his tone. So far, the innkeeper had only done what the
law had required of him, except in the matter of turning out two women who could not pay for
their lodging, and in doing this the law would support him. Monsignor Pelagatti was a tremendous
personage, who ruled the whole Marquisate of Ferrara in the name of the Pope; he knew his business,
or believed he did, and it was absurd to think that a humble innkeeper and posting-master could
influence him to act upon the mere word of a serving-man.

On the other hand, it was unsafe to doubt a hunchback openly, and it would be fatal to quarrel
with him, because he could cast the spell of the Evil Eye.

'I shall do my best,' the innkeeper replied, 'and far more readily for your sake, my dear friend,
than for my own, I assure you.'

Cucurullo smiled quietly, and seemed quite satisfied with this answer. He now went on to ask
questions about Ortensia and Pina, but the host knew nothing, except that they had left the
house together, immediately after the arrest of Stradella. For obvious reasons he said nothing
of his interview with Pina. He declared that they had simply left the inn, and that he had
not hindered them. He had not seen them go out, and could not tell whether they had turned
to the north or the south. He suggested that since they had gone away at once and without the
least hesitation, they probably had friends in Ferrara to whom they could turn for protection
and help in their difficulty. He was ready, he said, to help Cucurullo to find them out; he
would be only too happy to be of use.

What he suggested was not unlikely. During the flight from Venice, Cucurullo had observed Pina
closely, and had come to the conclusion that she was a woman of resources, who had travelled
much at some time or other, and who could hold her tongue. She would certainly think of some
expedient, and would succeed in placing her mistress under some sort of protection. His own
mind always instinctively ran in the direction of an ecclesiastical solution of any difficulty
in life; if he himself were starving and friendless in a strange city he would knock at the
door of a Franciscan monastery and beg for shelter and work. He therefore concluded that Pina
would naturally have taken Ortensia directly to a convent, where they would both be cared for;
the serving-woman would take care to be informed of what happened to Stradella, and as soon
as he was let out she would communicate with him.

Moreover, as compared with the fate of the musician, Cucurullo cared little what became of
Ortensia; for his devotion to his master filled his whole life, whereas the young girl's only
claim to his attachment was that Stradella was in love with her. On the other hand, the pious
serving-man saw in the present separation of the two a special intervention of Providence for
the purpose of keeping the lovers apart till they could be duly and properly married. From
this point of view to putting Ortensia out of his thoughts altogether was only a step, and
he devoted every energy to the liberation of his master.

Having come to this conclusion in a much shorter time than it has taken to explain his reasons,
he again thanked his new friend, promising to come back for dinner at noon, and adding that
he would go over to the castle gate and gather such information as he could. He was hindered
from doing so at once, however, by the preparations for the Nuncio's departure, which has been
already described. He mixed with the crowd that had gathered to see the sight, and waited till
some time had elapsed after the Legate and the guard had gone in before he approached the drawbridge.

The single sentinel had now returned to his beat, but half-a-dozen of the halberdiers were
loitering about the door of the guard-room within the deep archway, at some distance from the
gate. The sentry stopped Cucurullo and asked his business.

'I am the servant of the gentleman who has been arrested by mistake at the inn,' the hunchback
answered humbly. 'My master had sent me out on an errand, and when I came in I learnt the news.
So I have come to wait for him.'

'I am afraid you may wait long,' answered the sentry, with a friendly glance at Cucurullo's
hump; 'but you are welcome to sit in the guard-room, if you like.'

'Thank you,' Cucurullo answered, and as he passed he felt the soldier's light touch on his
crooked back.

The other halberdiers received him with equal kindness, and there was not one of them who did
not believe that he would have a stroke of luck before night, if he could by any means touch
the magic hump without offending its possessor. Cucurullo took off his hat civilly as he stopped
before them.

'Good-morning, gentlemen,' he said. 'The sentinel was kind enough to say that I might wait
here for my master, who has been arrested by mistake and will soon come out.'

'And welcome!' cried the sergeant on duty, who had lost money at play on the previous evening.

'At your service! Pray sit down! Bring out a chair!'

The men all spoke together, and gathered closely round Cucurullo to touch his hump, so that
he almost disappeared amongst them. Then they got a chair from the guard-room and made him
sit down at his ease, and some remained standing beside him while others sat on the end of
the stone seat that ran along the wall. He thanked them warmly, and at once entered into conversation,
asking for news of Stradella, and explaining the strange mistake that had led to his arrest.
In a few minutes he had learned that his master was in all likelihood at that very moment before
the Legate.

'And what sort of person is his worship, the Governor?' asked Cucurullo, anxious for information,
and lowering his voice.

The sergeant was a jolly, red-faced, merry-eyed man from the March of Ancona, and he laughed
before he answered.

'We used to call him Pontius Pilate, because he does not know what truth is,' he said, 'but
we gave that up because he never washes his hands!'

Cucurullo smiled at the rough jest, but he looked curiously at the speaker.

'I see that you are familiar with the Scriptures, sir,' observed the hunchback.

'I come by the knowledge honestly,' answered the soldier. 'I did not steal it! My father, bless
his soul, was killed in battle, and so my mother tried to make a priest of me. Eh? You see
me as I am! This is the kind of priest my mother made! Neither more nor less than a poor sergeant
of halberdiers. But a little of the Latin stuck to me, for indeed it is sticky stuff enough,
and the priests laid it on with a stick!'

The men roared with delight at their superior's elegant wit, and Cucurullo laughed a little
too, more out of politeness than because he was amused.

'You may yet die a saint, sir,' he said with a grave smile when the general mirth had subsided.
'Many of the saints were soldiers, you know. There was the blessed Saint Eustace, and there
was Saint Martin, and Saint Sebastian, and Saint George----'

'But there never was a Saint Hector, and that is my name, at your service.'

At this retort the men again showed their delight, laughing in chorus.

'Do you think you have no chance of being the first Saint Hector in the calendar?' asked Cucurullo
pleasantly. 'Why not? You have a good heart, sir. I see it in your face, if you will pardon
me for saying so. Gentlemen'--he smilingly appealed to the other men--'has not Sergeant Hector
a good heart?'

'A heart of gold!' cried one of the soldiers.

'A heart as big as a pumpkin!' another chimed in.

'A lion's heart!'

'There is not another like him in all the Pope's army!'

'And God bless him!'

The sergeant stood back, pretending to put on a terrible frown, and cutting the air in carte
and tierce with his handsome tasselled stick.

'You ruffians!' he roared. 'You know well enough that I would beat you all black and blue if
you did not praise me seventeen times a day, four times for each watch and once more for good
luck! Eh?' He glared ferociously about him, and his stick flew round in his hand like lightning,
through a whole series of cuts, feints, and round parries. 'Have I trained my men well or not?'
he asked, desisting at last, and turning to Cucurullo.

'You have trained them to tell the truth about you, sir, I have no doubt,' answered the hunchback.

'And we will make a bad day of it for any man who says a word against him,' said the biggest
of the halberdiers with a grin.

The rest confirmed his statement with a variety of asseverations, according to their several
tastes, calling to witness indifferently both heathen deities and Christian saints.

'Very well,' said Cucurullo. 'It is proved that you have a very good heart, sir, and that is
the chief thing needed to make a saint. For to say that a man is kind-hearted is only another
way of saying that he is charitable, and Charity is the greatest of the three Theological Virtues,
as you must have learned at the seminary.'

'Good friend,' answered the sergeant, 'if you are going to open the "Process" concerning my
Beatification this morning, the Devil's Advocate must be appointed to argue against you and
try to prove me the worst of sinners, for that is the rule in Rome.'

'Very well, sir,' laughed the hunchback. 'Appoint him yourself, sir!'

'He is upstairs just now,' retorted the other, 'sitting in judgment on your master! But I will
promise that if you argue with him about me, he will prove that my soul is rotting in original
and acquired sin, and that nothing can save me but cutting my pay!'

Again the gloomy archway rang with the soldiers' hoarse laughter, which was by no means the
expression of obsequious flattery. The sergeant was more than popular with the whole company
of halberdiers that garrisoned the castle; he was beloved for his inexhaustible good-nature
and respected for his undoubted courage. Cucurullo had guessed this in a few moments, and in
view of possible complications he was resolved to make an ally of the sergeant and friends
of the men.

He felt amongst the loose silver in his pocket and jingled it in a manner agreeable for poor
soldiers to hear.

'It is still early,' he said, 'but talking always makes me thirsty. If you would allow some
one to fetch some drink, sir, I should be grateful.'

The sergeant assented to the proposal with alacrity, and at his nod a young soldier stepped
briskly forward to take the piece of silver Cucurullo was holding up.

'How much shall I fetch?' asked the man, grinning.

Cucurullo counted the company quickly before he answered.

'We are nine,' he said. 'I think you had better get nine pints in a stoup.' A little murmur
of approval and anticipatory satisfaction ran round. 'I do not know whether that is right,'
he added, in a tone of hesitating interrogation.

'You speak the wisdom of all ages,' answered the sergeant. 'Solomon never said anything better.
"Take a little wine for the good of the stomach," says Saint Paul.'

So the time passed pleasantly for the soldiers down there under the great gate, while Monsignor
Pelagatti was conducting his singular judicial proceedings upstairs. A couple of horn cups
were produced from the guard-room, and the men drank to Cucurullo's health in turn, while he
himself swallowed a little; for he was tired, and he was terribly anxious, in spite of his
cheerful manner and jesting tone.

They were all laughing and talking together when the old goldsmith appeared from within, on
his way home. The sergeant hailed him and asked what news of the counterfeiter there was from
the Legate's court.

'Three hundred and ninety-one good gold ducats confiscated to the Treasury,' answered the grey-haired
crafts-man, 'and the prisoner to be lodged under the Lion Tower till he is sent to Rome for trial.'

The sergeant looked at Cucurullo, and saw that he grew paler, and dead white all round the
lips; but the hunchback showed no other sign of emotion, and the goldsmith nodded gravely and
went out.

'This is bad news, gentlemen,' said Cucurullo. 'Is there any way by which I could send a message
to my master?' he asked in a low voice.

'Either of the turnkeys would sell his soul for a dodkin, and blow up the castle for a ducat,
Legate and all,' answered the sergeant in the same tone.

'I would willingly give a ducat if I might see my master.'

'I will bargain with him for half that, but it will have to be after dark. We go off duty at
Ave Maria this evening, but to-morrow we have the night watch. Come about the first hour of
the night, and you will find the little postern ajar in the left half of the gate. Push it
open and come in.'

With this friendly promise Cucurullo had to be satisfied; and, indeed, he had good reason to
congratulate himself, for if he had chanced upon one of the other sergeants he might have had
a very different reception, though the whole garrison hated the Legate heartily. The guard
for the month at the main gate was divided into three watches that took turns, being on duty
there for twelve hours and off for twenty-four; this did not mean, however, that they were
at liberty during all that time, for there was other sentry duty to be done about the castle.

Having taken leave of his new friends, the hunchback went back to the inn, debating with himself
whether he should remain there until the following night, or seek a lodging in a more remote
and quiet part of the town. But, on the whole, he resolved to trust the innkeeper--or it would
be nearer the truth to say that he trusted to the power his deformity exercised over a man
in whom he would not otherwise have placed much confidence. If he took a room elsewhere, he
would be forced to make acquaintance with the owners of the house, and he was convinced that
such a Governor as Monsignor Pelagatti must have his spies everywhere; it was safer to stay
where he was already known, and was looked upon as a bringer of luck, than to go where he might
find less superstitious people.

He therefore took the cheapest room in the inn, announced his intention of waiting till his
master was set free, and by way of inspiring confidence he paid for three days' lodging in
advance. His object in seeing Stradella was to get definite instructions in the first place,
and, secondly, to take him a dish of meat and a supply of such food as would keep some time
without spoiling. Stradella would probably bid him ride post to Rome and bring back an order
from Cardinal Altieri which would set everything right; but it would scarcely be possible to
cover the distance and return in less than ten days, at the very least, during which time it
was only too probable that the musician would fall ill from lack of food and from the possible
dampness and closeness of his prison.

The hours passed slowly enough in the solitude of the little upper room in which Cucurullo
spent most of that day and the next, and the intervening night; for he thought it wiser not
to be seen much in the town, being what he was, a mark for men's eyes wherever he went. He
would have read if he could have found a book, for he was a good reader and writer, and often
copied music for his master, for he could engross handsomely; but there were no books in the
inn, not even the works of that 'poor Signor Torquato Tasso,' who had been so long shut up
as a lunatic in Ferrara in the days of the Marquis Alfonso Second. The only book Cucurullo
had been able to find was a small volume with a very strange name, for its title was Eikon
Basilike; but Cucurullo did not understand a word of it, and the innkeeper said he thought
the book must have been forgotten by two rich English gentlemen who had lately spent some days
in his house.

At the appointed hour Cucurullo crossed the drawbridge of the castle, pushed the small postern,
and went in. A hanging iron lamp, fed with mingled olive-oil and tallow, dimly lighted the
great archway, where the sentry was pacing up and down. Sergeant Hector came forward as soon
as the hunchback appeared, and closed and bolted the postern after him before speaking. The
other men of the watch were presumably dozing in the guard-room, from the open door of which
no light appeared.

'This way, my dear friend,' whispered the sergeant. 'The man is waiting.'

He hurried Cucurullo along the dark way towards the inner court, laying a hand on his crooked
back by way of guiding him; but the truth was that since he had met Cucurullo his luck at play
had been surprisingly good, and he would not miss the chance of refreshing it again at the
magic source of fortune.

They passed the foot of the main staircase, went on a few steps farther, and then turned into
a narrow passage. The glare of a lantern flashed in Cucurullo's eyes.

'Here is the gentleman,' the sergeant said in a low voice. 'This is our head gaoler,' he added,
turning to Cucurullo. 'I have agreed that you should pay three silver florins in advance for
the visit.'

'Cash,' said a voice that was unnaturally hoarse, possibly from the dampness of the underground
labyrinth to which the man's business often took him.

Cucurullo was wrapped in his wide cloak, under which he had slung on himself the bottles and
provisions he was bringing. He had prepared some loose money in his breeches pocket, and immediately
produced the three coins. The turnkey was holding the lantern in such a position that it was
impossible to see his face, but a grimy hand shot out into the yellow glare to take the money.

'Come,' said the hoarse voice; and as the speaker turned to lead the way, Cucurullo heard the
jingling of his keys.

The sergeant was already gone, and the hunchback followed his guide along the passage, which
descended by a distinctly perceptible grade. It was clear from this that the prisons must be
below the level of the water in the moat, and already the moving light showed that the walls
were dripping with moisture. Presently the passage emerged into a sort of crypt, in which huge
masses of masonry supported low arches that in turn carried the cross vaulting. The floor,
if it was anything but beaten earth, was slippery with a thin film of greasy mud.

At last the turnkey stopped before one of half-a-dozen doors, all studded alike with rusty
iron nails, and each having a lock, a bolt, and a square aperture at the height of a man's
head, strongly barred. Cucurullo now saw the gaoler's ugly features for the first time.

The door opened, creaking loudly on its hinges; and as the turnkey held up his lantern to see
into the cell, Cucurullo, peering past him, caught sight of his master's face. It was ghastly
pale, his sunken eyes had dark half-circles under them, and his unshaven chin and cheeks looked
grimy in the yellow light.

'Is it morning?' he asked, in a dull voice.

Cucurullo slipped past the gaoler and spoke to him, and instantly the light flashed in his
eyes and he smiled, for the first time since he had been arrested in Ortensia's room. Cucurullo
took his hand and kissed it with devotion, as Italian servants often do in great moments.

Neither had yet spoken when the heavy door creaked and was slammed, and they were suddenly
in the dark. The key turned noisily in the lock, twice in quick succession, and the additional
bolt rattled as it was pushed into its socket.

'Good-night, gentlemen,' said the preternaturally hoarse voice of the turnkey through the square
hole in the door. 'I will bring you your dinner at noon!'

Cucurullo sprang to the grated aperture, only to see the ruffian stalking off into the gloom
with his lantern.

'Hi! Listen!' he cried. 'Come back, Sir Gaoler! You shall have a ducat----'

The man stood still, and turned his face towards the door of the cell with a sardonic grin.

'Now that I have you and your ducats under lock and key I shall take them at my leisure, Sir
Fool!' he answered. 'I only agreed to let you in; I did not promise to let you out.'

Thereupon he turned again and stalked away, much to Cucurullo's consternation; and in this
manner the fourth and last of the runaway party that had arrived at the inn from Rovigo disappeared
in Ferrara, somewhat to the surprise of the innkeeper, but not to his loss, since Cucurullo
had paid for his lodging in advance.

CHAPTER X

Stradella and Ortensia had fled from Venice on Thursday evening and had reached Ferrara at
midnight on Friday. It was therefore on a Saturday morning that the musician was imprisoned,
and on Sunday night Cucurullo was caught in the trap and locked up with him. It was late on
that same afternoon that the Bravi took leave of Pignaver in the church of the Frari, and they
did not leave Venice till the next day; for since they were to be paid for their time they
could really not see any reason for being in a hurry. Moreover, they travelled like gentlemen,
and though the proceeds of the emerald ring had already amply furnished them with the means
of replacing many useful articles which adversity had forced them to sell or pawn, yet some
further preparation seemed necessary, if they were to make their journey in a manner becoming
to their rank.

As for travelling night and day, that was quite out of the question, for they would have thought
it very foolish to trust implicitly to the information about the runaways which Pignaver had
got from the Venetian police. Where such grave responsibility was laid upon them, it was right
that they should rely only on what they themselves could learn with certainty. The consequence
was that they did not reach Ferrara till Wednesday afternoon, having spent a night in Padua
and another in Rovigo; and they were of course persuaded that Stradella and Ortensia were by
that time already in Florence, if they had taken that direction.

So far, the Bravi had only spoken of their business when it was necessary to compare notes
about the information they gathered. Having undertaken to murder both the lovers on the one
hand, but also to deliver both of them safe and unhurt, Ortensia to the Senator and Stradella
to the enamoured lady, the subject presented certain complications which were too tiresome
to discuss until a final decision became necessary; and for that matter, Trombin and Gambardella
fully intended to obtain the full five hundred ducats from each side.

'You and I were certainly meant to be lawyers or bankers,' Trombin had observed at Rovigo over
a bottle of very old Burgundy; 'for whichever of two cards turns up, we must win half the stakes.'

'Both must turn up at the end of the deal,' Gambardella had answered with decision, 'and we
must win everything.'

'Under Providence,' Trombin had replied, 'we will.'

Having said this much they had dismissed the subject, and their conversation during the rest
of the evening had been of artistic matters, politics, literature, women's beauty, and whatsoever
else two tolerably cultivated gentlemen might discuss with propriety in the presence and hearing
of a landlord and his servants. As soon as they had arrived, they had learned without difficulty
that the runaway party had passed through the place and had safely reached Ferrara, whence
the carriage they had hired in Padua had duly returned.

The Bravi preferred to ride post, sending their luggage on with their servant, six or seven
hours in advance of them. The serving-man they had hired in Venice had been a highway robber
for several years, as they were well aware, and in an ordinary situation he might have made
away with his masters' valuables, if entrusted with them; but he knew who Trombin and Gambardella
were, and what they had done, and his admiration for such very superior cut-throats was boundless.
Anything of theirs was safe in his hands, and therefore safe from robbers on the road, for
he had not long retired from the profession, and had the thieves' pass-words by heart from
Milan to Naples, and farther. As a servant, he had parted his hair in the middle and resumed
his modest and unobtrusive baptismal name of Tommaso; but he had always been known to the gang
as Grattacacio, that is, 'Cheese-grater,' because it was told of him that he had once done
good execution with that simple kitchen instrument on the nose of a sbirro who had tried to
catch him, but was himself caught instead.

The worthy courier arrived at the inn in Ferrara on Wednesday before noon and took the best
room in the house for his masters, who, he said, would arrive at their convenience during the
afternoon; as in fact they did, looking very magnificent in fashionable long-skirted riding-coats
buttoned tight across the chest and under the broad linen collar, high-crowned felt hats with
magnificent feathers, boots of the new fashion, cut off below the knee, and handsome silver
chains instead of shoulder-belts for their rapiers.

Grattacacio had announced them as two Venetian gentlemen travelling for their pleasure, and
when the innkeeper asked their names, the man answered that they had received titles of nobility
from the King of France, and were called respectively Count Tromblon de la Trombine and Count
Gambardella. When in Venice, he said, they dropped these appellations and took their seats
in the Grand Council as nobles of the Republic. For the rest, Grattacacio continued, they were
gentlemen of exquisite taste and most fastidious in their eating and drinking. Burgundy was
their favourite wine, and they could not drink French claret if it was more than twelve or
less than eight years old. They abhorred the sweet Malmsey which the Tuscans were so fond of,
but if there was any old Oporto in the cellar they were connoisseurs and could appreciate it.

The landlord received them with all the respect due to such a noble pair of epicures, and long
before they arrived preparations were making in the kitchen to cook them a dinner worthy of
their refined taste and portentous appetites.

So far as their other pretensions went, they had really seen some service in the French Army,
but their highest title to distinction was that they had narrowly escaped being hanged for
selling information to the Dutch, and as soon as they had fled it was discovered that they
had taken with them all the loose gold in the regimental chest, and the two fleetest horses
in the Field-Marshal's stable.

The landlord, who did not know this, bowed to the ground as they dismounted under the archway,
and at once led them to the best rooms, with which they expressed themselves well satisfied.
For whatever their real names might be, they had been originally brought up as gentlemen, and
they did not abuse everything that was offered them in order to make innkeepers believe that
they lived magnificently at home. When they saw that they were given the best there was to
be had, no matter how poor that might be, they accepted it quietly and said 'Thank you' without
more ado; but if they perceived that the best was being withheld for some one else, they were
a particularly troublesome pair of gentlemen to deal with; for nothing abashed them, and nothing
seemed to frighten them, and they were always as ready to beat an innkeeper as to skewer a
marquis according to the most rigidly honourable rules of duelling. As for the law, it might
as well not have existed, so far as they were concerned. They never needed it, and when it
wanted them they were never to be found--unless they were under the powerful protection of
a prince or an ambassador, of whom the law itself was very much afraid, and who promptly demanded
for them a written pardon for their last offence. For those were the only conditions under
which Bravi could have exercised their profession as they did throughout Italy in the seventeenth
century.

Trombin detained the innkeeper a moment when he was about to leave the two to their toilet,
after the day's ride.

'Some acquaintances of ours must have spent a night here last week,' Trombin began. 'Do you
remember them? They were the celebrated Maestro Alessandro Stradella and his young Venetian
wife. They have with them a middle-aged serving-woman. Can you recollect when they left here?'

The landlord scratched his head and pretended to be racking his memory; for it would have been
quite easy to say that the party had left on Saturday, on their way to Bologna. That was the
answer the gentleman expected, and the innkeeper generally found that it served best to tell
people what they expected to hear. But, on the other hand, there was the question of truth,
if not of truthfulness. Who could tell but that such fine gentlemen might have with them an
introduction to the Legate, who might tell them the story. If this happened, the two travellers
would be angry at having been deceived, since, if the imprisoned man was really Stradella,
they would naturally wish to help him to regain his liberty.

This reflection carried the day; the innkeeper therefore decided in favour of truth, and he
told the tale of Stradella's arrest, and of the mysterious disappearance of the other three
members of the party. The two Bravi listened in silent surprise, glancing at each other from
time to time, as if to note some point of importance.

'Something must be done at once!' cried Trombin, when the landlord had told all. 'This is an
egregious miscarriage of the law! Something must be done at once!'

'Something must be done at once!' echoed Gambardella very emphatically, though in a much lower
tone. 'Are you quite sure that you do not know where the lady went, Master Landlord? Or have
you only forgotten?'

He had fixed his evil black eyes on the innkeeper's face, and there was something in his look
and tone that suddenly scared the stout Romagnole, who was no great hero after all; he backed
against the door as if he expected Gambardella to spring at him.

'Indeed, Signor Count,' he cried in a rather shaky voice, 'if it were my last word, I know
nothing more of the lady and her woman! They left the house immediately, but I do not know
whether they turned to the right or the left from my door, for I did not see them go out.'

'Have you made any inquiries in the town?' asked Gambardella in the same tone as before. 'No?
Then you had better set about it at once. Do you understand? That young lady is the niece of
a friend of ours, who is a Venetian Senator, and if any harm comes to her through your having
allowed her to leave your house unprotected, you may be held responsible. I fancy that the
Legate here must be anxious to oblige the Republic in such matters!'

This was no doubt arrant nonsense, but nothing seemed laughable when Gambardella assumed that tone.

'Something must be done at once!' cried Trombin, and turning suddenly to the landlord he opened
his round blue eyes as wide as possible, and drew his breath sharply in through his pursed
lips with a soft sound of whistling.

He looked like a colossal angry cat, and was at least as terrifying as Gambardella. The landlord
faltered as he replied to both the Bravi at once.

'Certainly, my lords, certainly--I will have inquiries made--I will do my best--it was really
not my fault----'

'It may not have been your intention, but it was, in a measure, your fault,' answered Trombin,
allowing his expression to relax, 'though it may have been only a fault of omission, and therefore
venial, which is to say, pardonable, Master Landlord, in proportion to the gravity of the consequences
that may attend it. And now we will make ourselves ready for the succulent dinner which, I
have no doubt, your wise care is about to set before us, for your house has an excellent name,
but we would have you know that our appetites are at least as good, and our understanding of
the noble art of cookery much better. It is not becoming to speak of any actions we may have
to our past credit in war, but we can at least boast without reproach that we have eaten some
of the best dinners cooked since Lucullus supped with himself!'

This tirade, delivered with the utmost rapidity and punctuated with several smiles that showed
the speaker's sharp and gleaming teeth, partially reassured the innkeeper, who took himself
off at once; and as he had been frightened he proceeded at once to restore his self-respect
by frightening the cook, cuffing the scullions, and threatening the drawer with an awful end
if he should shake the bottles and disturb the ancient sediment when he brought the Burgundy
to the gentlemen's table.

When he was gone, the Bravi did not at once talk over the unexpected news, for Grattacacio
was with them, coming and going, bringing hot water, shaving them as well as any barber, unpacking
their linen and clothes, and waiting on them with such a constant prescience of their needs
as only a highly trained body-servant can possess. For the truth was that he had begun life
as a bishop's footman, and had risen to be valet to a cardinal, before he had taken to the
road after robbing his master of some valuable jewels; but his hair was now growing grey at
the temples, and his nerve was not so good as it had been, and as he had escaped hanging till
now, he gave up risking it any longer. Accordingly he had parted his hair and called himself
Tommaso once more, and he was now looking out for a good place with a not too decrepit prelate;
for he had been used to boast that no valet in all the Roman Curia could put on a bishop's
sandals at High Mass with such combined skill and unction as he, nor carry a cardinal's scarlet
train at a consistory with such mingled devoutness and grace. As for serving Mass, it had been
a second nature to him, and even now he could rattle off the responses without a mistake, from
the first 'sicut erat in principio' to the last 'Deo gratias' after the Second Gospel.

Trombin and Gambardella did not discuss the situation until this highly accomplished servant
of theirs had accompanied them to the dining-room, to push their chairs under them as they
sat down, and to assure himself that the table-cloth was spotless and the glasses not only
clean but polished. Then he left them to their dinner, which, as he well knew, would last at
least two hours.

The dining-room was spacious and airy, having two large grated windows that overlooked the
square, and there were several small tables besides the long one at which the 'ordinary' was
served every day at noon. The Bravi were now the only guests, and were installed near one of
the windows, for the day was warm. From the middle of the vaulted ceiling a huge bunch of fresh
green ferns was hung, not as a substitute for flowers, but to attract and stupefy the stray
flies that found their way in from the kitchen, even at that early season of the year.

Trombin was the first to speak, after the preliminary appetisers had been placed on the table
and the glasses had been filled.

'The situation strikes me as amusing,' he said. 'I have always felt that destiny possesses
a sense of humour which makes the wittiest French comedy lugubrious by comparison.'

'You are easily amused, my friend,' answered Gambardella gloomily, and picking out a very thin
slice of Bologna sausage for his next mouthful. 'We were looking forward to a pleasant journey
to Florence or Rome, our expenses being liberally paid; instead, we find that all the people
we wish to meet are here, barely two days from Venice, and as if that were not enough, they
must needs melt away like snow in the street and disappear underground, so that we must turn
sbirri to find them. I see no sense of humour in the destiny that brings about such silly circumstances.'

'You were always a melancholic soul,' Trombin observed. 'As for me, I cannot but laugh when
I think that we shall have to rescue our man from the danger of being hanged as a counterfeiter,
in order that we may conveniently cut his throat.'

Having expressed his view of the case Trombin swallowed half a glass of wine at a draught,
while his companion sipped a few drops from his.

'I do not call it melancholy to like good things and to wish that they may last as long as
possible,' Gambardella said, rather sourly. 'What could have been more delightful than to ride
all the way to Rome or Naples in this way, travelling only on fine days, and stopping where
one can get a bottle of old Burgundy and a slice of a decently cooked capon? Talk of sending
people to a better world, my friend--it would give me infinite satisfaction to skewer this
fool of a Legate for having interfered with our plans! A pretty job it is going to be, to get
a man out of a dungeon under the Lion Tower.'

'Which one is that?' asked Trombin, looking through the grated window at the gloomy castle
on the other side of the square.

'It is at the northeast corner at the head of the street they call Giovecca. You cannot see
it from here. When we have dined we will stroll over and look at it, if you like, but you might
as well try to rescue a prisoner from the Bastille!'

Gambardella sniffed his wine discontentedly and then sipped it. He was a grave man and business-like;
he could drive as hard a bargain for a life as any Bravo in Italy, and do his work as neatly
and expeditiously, when it was plainly laid out before him; but he had no imagination, and
his idea of rescuing Stradella was evidently to get him out of the castle by some simple trick
such as poor Cucurullo had tried in order to see his master.

'This seems to be a good inn,' observed Trombin thoughtfully, after a pause. 'I had as soon
spend a ducat a day here as in a worse house. Now this Burgundy is of the vintage of the year
fifty-one.'

'Undoubtedly,' assented Gambardella, sipping again as he did about once a minute. 'It has the
"rose" bouquet like that of forty-six, but is a little younger. To think that if we could only
get that fellow out of prison we could have him to dinner, and he would sing for us this evening!
It is maddening to think that he may lose his voice in a damp hole through the idiocy of that
thrice-confounded Legate!'

'It is indeed,' agreed Trombin. 'I wonder what has become of the lady.'

'I thought you were thinking of the girl,' said the other discontentedly. 'It would complete
the situation if you should find her and fall in love with her yourself!'

'That is possible. It has pleased Providence to make me susceptible, whereas you are designed
by nature for a monastic life. Our friend's description of his niece calls up an enchanting
picture! The "Bella" of the late Titian, but younger and slimmer! Heaven send such a sweet
creature to cheer my declining years! I do not wonder that the Maestro lost his heart and carried
her off. And at this very moment she must be hiding somewhere in Ferrara, perhaps not a quarter
of a mile from here! In a convent, no doubt, in some gloomy old house full of yellow-faced
Carmelite or Franciscan nuns, with her glorious hair and her matchless complexion! I can see
her in my imagination, a gilded rose amongst cabbages, a luscious peach in a heap of turnips.'

'For goodness' sake stop raving!' interrupted Gambardella. 'Why should she be in a convent,
I should like to know?'

'Where else could two respectable women without money go? They could not possibly travel, and
no one in the town would take them in without baggage or cash. I tell you they went from here
to a convent and asked for shelter and protection. It is the most natural thing in the world.
It is what the girl's middle-aged serving-woman would certainly think of first.'

'You may be right,' answered the other, his tone changing. 'Drink more wine, for it always
stimulates your imagination, and you may imagine a way of getting Stradella out of the Lion
Tower. I think you are right about the girl. We will make inquiries at the convents after dinner.'

Trombin filled his glass, which was quite empty, drank half the contents and set it down.

'In the first place,' he said, 'we had better try simple persuasion with the Legate. If you
agree, I will go and see him late in the afternoon. He may make some little difficulty about
receiving me, but that will only be in order to impress me with his greatness. Besides, you
will give me a letter of introduction which I shall ask to present in person.'

'I?' Gambardella looked at his friend across his glass with an expression of inquiry.

'Certainly,' answered Trombin. 'I could not ask such a favour of any one who knows me better,
could I? If any one can vouch for me, you can.'

Gambardella condescended to smile faintly, and suggested an outline of the letter.

'"I have the honour to introduce to your lordship's good graces the very noble Count Tromblon
de la Trombine, who is here at great personal inconvenience for the express purpose of cutting
Alessandro Stradella's throat, and will be much obliged if your worship will at once order
the Maestro to be let out for that purpose." Would that do? I could sign Pignaver's name to it!'

'You have no imagination. I will make a rough draft, which you will then write out much better
than I could. You shall see. While I am at the castle, you may make inquiries at the different
convents.'

As their servant Tommaso had foreseen, they sat at table two hours, and on the whole, though
they were highly experienced epicures, they were not dissatisfied with the dinner. Gambardella
even admitted that one more day in Ferrara would not be intolerable, but that was as much as
his second bottle of Burgundy could bring him to say. At dessert, Trombin called for writing
materials and quickly drafted the letter of introduction he wished his friend to write out
for him. The latter watched him, and from time to time picked out a fat red cherry from a quantity
that floated in a large bowl of water, and ate it thoughtfully.

An hour and a half later the Legate returned from his daily airing, which he generally took
on a handsome brown mule, accompanied by his private secretary or by the captain of the halberdiers
of the garrison. He came home early, though the weather was warm, for he was beginning to be
a little rheumatic, and he established himself in the sunny room which he used as his study.
He had not been seated ten minutes in his high-backed chair, with a red cotton quilt spread
over his knees and tucked in round his legs, dictating letters to his secretary, when word
was brought him that a Venetian gentleman desired to be received, in order to present a letter
of introduction from a high personage.

Monsignor Pelagatti had an almost exaggerated respect for high personages, though he was now
considered to be one of them himself. Even kings may be snobs, when they are not very big kings,
and much more, therefore, the lay governor of a papal province who had climbed to distinction
from a steward's office in a Roman patrician's household. The Legate sent his secretary downstairs
to bring up the visitor with all the ceremony due to the bearer of an important letter.

In a few minutes Trombin entered the sunny room, and the Governor, who had dropped his red
cotton quilt and kicked it out of sight under the table, rose to receive him. Trombin's round
cheeks were rounder and pinker than ever, his long yellow hair was as smooth as butter, his
bow was precisely suited to the dignity of the Legate, and his manner inspired confidence by
its quiet self-possession. His right hand held out the letter he brought, which Monsignor Pelagatti
received with a gracious smile after returning his visitor's bow, at the same time inviting
the latter to be seated on his right, where the secretary had already placed a comfortable chair.

'With your permission,' said the Governor politely, before proceeding to read the letter.

Trombin bowed his acquiescence from his chair and smiled again. The succulent dinner and rich
Burgundy seemed to have made him sleeker and pinker than ever, and he watched the Legate's
face with a pleasantly benevolent expression.

But Monsignor Pelagatti's jaw dropped as he read the missive, and his shrivelled lids seemed
to shrink back from all round his little red eyes till they looked as if they were starting
from his head, while Trombin watched him with quiet satisfaction.

The letter purported to be from the acting Chief of the Council of Ten in Venice, and was really
a miracle of official style in its way.

The writer took the liberty of introducing a gentleman to whom he entrusted a delicate business,
the noble Signor Trombin del Todescan. He was obliged, however, to leave Brussels without witnessing
the exhibition.

As to Blackhal himself, The Catholic Annual Register for the present year (p. 207.) supplies
two facts which were not known to his editor--that he was at last principal of the Scots College
at Paris, and that he died July 1. 1671.

J.C.R.

The Nonjurors (Vol. ii., p. 354.).--May I take the liberty of suggesting to MR. YEOWELL that his
interesting paper on "The Oratories of the Nonjurors," would have been far more valuable if he
had given the authorities for his statements.

J.C.R.

Booksellers' Catalogues.--Allow me to suggest the propriety and utility of stating the weight
or cost of postage to second-hand and other books.

It would be a great convenience to many country book-buyers to know the entire cost, carriage-free,
of the volumes they require, but have never seen.
ESTE.

Bailie Nicol Jarvie.--Lockhart, in his Life of Scott, speaking
of the first representation of Rob Roy on the Edinburgh boards, observes--

"The
great and unrivalled attraction was the personification of Bailie
Jarvie by Charles Mackay, who, being himself a native of Glasgow,
entered into the minutest peculiarities of the character with high
gusto, and gave the west country dialect in its most racy perfection."

But
in the sweetest cup of praise, there is generally one small drop of
bitterness. The drop, in honest Mackay's case, is that by calling
him a "native of Glasgow," and, therefore, "to the manner born," he
is, by implication, deprived of the credit of speaking the "foreign
tongue" like a native. He had never
done such a thing in his life, and it was not pleasant to feel the coming humiliation of being
forced to revoke an order given in court and to restore property he had summarily confiscated
to the Treasury.

He felt himself shrinking in his chair, while the noble Signor Trombin del Todescan, the secret
envoy of the Venetian Republic, seemed to grow bigger and more imposing every moment.

'I need not say that I am delighted to be set right, after making such a grave mistake,' said
Monsignor Pelagatti humbly. 'The circumstances were very suspicious, as I hope your lordship
will explain to the most illustrious Chief. Our information seemed very exact, and as I was
in correspondence with the police of Venice in regard to the capture of Bartolo, I could not
doubt but that the Republic would be pleased with the news that I had taken him, as I believed
I had.'

'The Chief is persuaded of your worship's good intentions,' Trombin answered blandly. 'I can
promise your worship, in his name, that the matter shall not be mentioned again. Will you be
so good as to order Signor Stradella to be set at liberty? I will conduct him to the inn myself
and see to his requirements. I am informed, however, that the Lady Ortensia and her serving-woman
left the house immediately after the arrest on Saturday morning, and have not been seen since.
Your worship doubtless knows where I can find them.'

'Certainly,' answered the Legate, proud to show that nothing escaped his vigilance. 'They went
directly to the Ursuline nuns and asked to be taken in. The Mother Superior very properly sent
to ask my permission before agreeing to let them stay, and I granted it. The most illustrious
Chief will be glad to know that her ladyship, his niece, has enjoyed the protection of a religious
order throughout this lamentable misunderstanding.'

Monsignor Pelagatti dictated and signed the order for Stradella's liberation, and then bade
his secretary accompany the noble Signor and see that there was no delay, and that his property
was duly returned. Trombin expressed the thanks of the most illustrious Chief of the Ten in
appropriately flowery language, bowed, as before, with precisely the right show of mixed regard
and condescension, and left the Legate to meditate on his ill-luck in having chanced to make
a mistake in such a foolish manner that he could be forced to set it right.

He had no intention of changing his method of dispensing justice, however, for it was a simple
one and had hitherto done him credit. It consisted in never admitting that he could be wrong,
and in punishing the prisoner whom he had picked out as guilty from the first, regardless of
anything that might turn up afterwards. One swallow, he now observed with truth, did not make
a spring, nor could one mistake prove a system wrong. The exception proved the rule, he argued
to himself, and as he considered that all his mistakes were exceptions, his rule must be practically
infallible.

Meanwhile Trombin waited under the great archway while the gaoler fetched Stradella and his
man, and two porters soon brought their valises and other belongings. The secretary disappeared
for a short time and returned with the leathern purse containing the confiscated money, which,
as he informed Trombin, must be counted out to the full satisfaction of the Maestro. The Bravo
continued to smile blandly, and while waiting he walked up and down the covered way to the
admiration of the halberdiers of the watch. They recognised in him the fighting man, the compact
and well-proportioned frame, the easy stride, the assured bearing, and the quick eye; and,
moreover, they had already understood what was happening, though they were not Sergeant Hector's
men, who would only relieve them at nightfall. But all the soldiers hated the Legate alike,
and rejoiced that for once he should be driven to acknowledge a mistake and give up a prisoner.

Stradella and Cucurullo came up from the dungeon in a miserable state, unwashed, unshaven,
their clothes stained with the slimy ooze of their prison; their hair was damp and matted,
their eyes blinked painfully in the light, and their grimy cheeks were of a ghastly colour.
But they were not otherwise much the worse for having spent several days and nights underground,
for the supply of provisions brought by the hunchback had sufficed to keep up their strength,
and Stradella's constitution, in spite of his pale and intellectual face, overflowed with vitality,
like that of all really great singers. As for Cucurullo, he had been inured to hardship and
misery in his childhood.

They came forward together, and before Trombin could meet them the turnkey had disappeared
again. Trombin took off his hat and bowed to Stradella, and the secretary thought it wise to
make an obsequious obeisance.

'Signor Maestro,' the latter said, 'his worship the Legate charges me to offer you his best
apologies for the painful mistake which has occurred, and to restore to you your property,
confiscated through an error which his worship deplores and trusts that you will condone.'

In spite of his wretched plight there was much dignity in Stradella's bearing as he answered
this speech.

'Present my compliments to Monsignor Pelagatti, sir,' he said, 'and pray assure him that I
accept the excuses which you make with so much politeness.'

'I thank you, illustrious Maestro,' said the secretary, bowing again. 'Allow me to add only
that the mistake has been rectified by this gentleman of Venice, the illustrious and noble
Signor Trombin del Todescan.'

Trombin and Stradella once more bowed to each other with great ceremony.

'It has been my privilege to render the slightest of services to the greatest of musicians,'
Trombin said. 'If you will allow me, Maestro, I shall have the further honour of conducting
you to the inn, where your property and money can be restored to you with more privacy than
in this place.'

'Three hundred and ninety-one gold ducats, Signor Maestro,' said the secretary. 'I have them
here, and the porters are already gone on with your luggage.'

The halberdiers stood up, and the sentinel on duty saluted as the little party passed through
the gate. The porters were halfway across the square, Stradella walked between Trombin and
the secretary, who had placed himself deferentially on the left, and Cucurullo brought up the
rear, sorrowfully surveying the stains and mud on the back of his master's clothes, only too
clearly visible in the bright afternoon light. Pataliputra, as prophesied by Gautama Buddha, found
its fate in the waters of the Ganges, having been twice before nearly destroyed, again like Sodom,
by the fire of heaven.

Reverting to the main subject, the "contradictions" between the Ceylonese and Chino-Tibetan chronologies
actually prove nothing.

If the Chinese annalists of Saul in accepting the prophecy of our Lord that "a thousand years after
He had reached Nirvana, His doctrines would reach the north" fell into the mistake of applying it
to China, whereas Tibet was meant, the error was corrected after
the eleventh century of the Tzina era in most of the temple chronologies.

Besides which, it may now refer to other events relating to Buddhism, of which Europe knows nothing,
China or Tzina dates its present name only from the year 296 of the Buddhist era* (vulgar chronology
having assumed it from the first Hoang of the Tzin dynasty): therefore
the Tathagata could not have indicated it by this name in his well-known
prophecy.

If misunderstood even by several of the Buddhist commentators, it is yet preserved in its true
sense by his own immediate Arhats. The Glorified One meant the country that stretches far off
from the Lake Mansorowara; far beyond that region of the Himavat, where dwelt from time immemorial
the great "teachers of the Snowy Range."

These were the great Sraman-acharyas who preceded Him, and were His teachers, their humble successors
trying to this day to perpetuate their and His doctrines. The prophecy came out true to the
very day, and it is corroborated both by the mathematical and historical chronology of Tibet--quite
as accurate as that of the Chinese. Arhat Kasyapa, of the dynasty of Moryas, founded by one of
the Chandraguptas near Ptaliputra, left the convent of Panch-Kukkutarama,
in consequence of a vision of our Lord, for missionary purpose in
the year 683 of the Tzin era (436 Western era) and had reached the
great Lake of Bod-Yul in the same year.

It is at that period that expired the millennium prophesied.

-------- * The reference to Chinahunah (Chinese and Huns) in the Vishma Parva of the Mahabharata
is evidently a later interpolation, as it does not occur in the old MSS. existing in Southern
India. --------

The Arhat carrying with him the fifth statue of Sakya Muni out of the seven gold statues made after
his bodily death by order of the first Council, planted it in the soil on that very spot where
seven years later was built the first GUNPA (monastery), where the
earliest Buddhist lamas dwelt.

And though the conversion of the whole country did not take place before the beginning of the
seventh century (Western era), the good law had, nevertheless, reached the North at the time
prophesied, and no earlier.

For, the first of the golden statues had been plundered from Bhikshu
Sali Suka by the Hiong-un robbers and melted, during the days of Dharmasoka,
who had sent missionaries beyond Nepaul.

The second had a like fate, at Ghar-zha, even before it had reached
the boundaries of Bod-Yul.

The third was rescued from a barbarous tribe of Bhons by a Chinese military chief who had pursued
them into the deserts of Schamo about 423 Buddhist era (120 "B.C.") The fourth was sunk in the third
century of the Christian era, together with the ship that carried it from Magadha toward the
hills of Ghangs-chhen-dzo-nga (Chitagong). The fifth arriving in the nick of time reached
its destination with Arhat Kasyapa. So did the last two.*

--------- * No doubt, since the history of these seven statues is
not in the hands of the Orientalists, it will be treated as a "groundless
fable."

Nevertheless such is their origin and history. They date from the first Synod, that of Rajagriha,
held in the season of war following the death of Buddha, i.e., one year after his death. Were
this Rajagriha Council held 100 years after, as maintained by some,
it could not have been presided over by Mahakasyapa, the friend and
brother Arhat of Sakyamuni, as he would have been 200 years old.

The second Council or Synod, that of Vaisali, was held 120, not 100
or 110 years as some would have it, after the Nirvana, for the latter
took place at a time a little over 20 years before the physical death
of Tathagata.

 Pray can you tell me her Reverence's name?'

Gambardella smiled gently. Probably it was not the first time he had been obliged to argue
with a convent door-keeper, that is, with the most incredulous and obstinate kind of human
being in the world.

'Unless I am mistaken,' Gambardella answered, 'her Reverence's name, in religion, is Mother
Agatha, and she was formerly Sub-Prioress of your house in Ravenna.'

'I see that you are well-informed,' the portress answered, somewhat reluctantly. 'I will find
out whether she is resting.'

She turned from him to go into her dark little lodge, through which she had communication with
the interior of the convent; but Gambardella called her back.

'One moment, sister! You need make but one errand of it. Pray let her Reverence know that a
Venetian gentleman of the name of Lorenzo Marcello sends her this token and begs the honour
of a few words with her.'

Therewith Gambardella drew from his finger the brass ring he always wore and placed it in the
portress's hand. After repeating the name he had given, she nodded and went within. While he
waited, Gambardella looked through the iron gate that separated the vestibule from the pleasant
cloistered garden, and his melancholy face was even more sad than usual, and his singular eyes
more shadowy.

'The Mother Superior will receive you in the parlour, sir,' said the portress, coming back,
and her tone showed that she now accorded the visitor high consideration.

He followed her through the lodge, which only received light from its doors when they were
open. Across one corner a dark brown curtain was hung, which presumably hid the portress's
pallet-bed. She led him through a whitewashed corridor, lighted from above, into a wide hall
from which a broad staircase led upwards, and which had several doors, besides two open entrances.
The portress opened one of the doors and shut it as soon as Gambardella had entered.

He walked up and down the long gloomy room while he waited; the two grated windows were far
above reach and opened upon a blank wall opposite. The bare stone pavement was damp, and the
furniture consisted of a dark walnut table, once polished, a long straight-backed settle placed
at one end, and twelve rush-bottomed chairs arranged round the sides of the room with great
regularity. Above the settle hung a painfully realistic crucifix; on the wall at the opposite
end a large barocco picture represented Saint Ursula in glory with the Eleven Thousand Virgins
of Cologne. Opposite the windows there was a bad copy of a portrait of Paul III., the Pope
who first established the order. Judging from the parlour, it could not be said that the Ursulines
of Ferrara were living in reprehensible luxury.

In three or four minutes the door opened again and the Mother Superior entered. She was taller
than most women, and very lean; her black gown and the black veil that almost reached the ground
hung in straight folds, and her wimple and gorget framed a dark face, thin and expressive,
with noticeably symmetrical features and ardent black eyes. It was impossible to guess at her
age, but she might have been thirty.

She bent her head slightly, in acknowledgment of Gambardella's respectful bow, and looked at
him during several seconds, as if she were recalling his appearance to her memory. Then she
slowly walked away to the settle, seated herself in the middle of it, and pointed to a chair
at a little distance. He sat down and waited for her to speak.

'Why have you come?' she asked, in a low tone that sounded resentful.

'Is it a crime to see you after ten years?' asked Gambardella with a good deal of sadness,
and watching her face intently.

'Unless you have changed greatly, it is at least a sin,' she answered deliberately, and she
met his eyes with eyes suddenly fierce.

'I have changed greatly, and not for the better,' he said simply, but he could not face her
look. 'It is neither to confess to you nor to ask your forgiveness again that I am here, for
you have no more right to a confession than I have to your pardon.'

'That may be,' answered the nun, her tone relenting, 'but such as my forgiveness can be, while
I can still remember, you have it.'

Gambardella was visibly moved at this unexpected concession. He was seated too far from her
to touch her hand, but he put out his own humbly towards the hem of her black skirt, then brought
it back to his lips and kissed it with reverence, as the very poor and wretched sometimes do
in Italy to express deep gratitude. She watched him, and there was the faintest suggestion
of a smile on her tightly closed lips. After a little pause, during which their eyes met once,
he spoke.

'I have come to inquire about a young Venetian lady and her serving-woman, who took refuge
with you last Saturday,' he said, with perfect assurance, though he had no proof that the two
were in the convent.

The Mother Superior's face darkened.

'What are they to you?' she asked sternly.

This was a question which Gambardella was not prepared to answer truthfully, and he had not
foreseen it. He vaguely wondered what the woman who had once loved him so well would say and
do if she knew that he had sunk to the condition of a paid Bravo, and had taken money from
one person to cut Ortensia's throat and from another to deliver her up a prisoner, and was
just now wondering how he could satisfy both his patrons.

Until now he had seen a humorous element in his two abominable bargains; but in the grim presence
of his own past things looked differently. The terrible eyes of the high-born woman he had
loved and betrayed long ago, when he was still called an honourable gentleman, were upon him
now, and he feared her as he had assuredly never feared any man in all his wild life. She understood
her power, and waited for him to speak.

But his fear only roused his faculties, and if he felt remorse when he thought of what she
had once been and of the life she was leading now, by his fault, he knew well enough that as
soon as she was out of his sight he would feel nothing but a dim regret that would hardly hurt.

'I take a vicarious interest in the Lady Ortensia,' he said after a little reflection. 'A friend
of mine, who is travelling with me, is also a friend of the man with whom she has run away,
and who has been locked up by mistake, as I dare say you have heard from her.'

'She has told me something,' the Mother Superior said coldly.

'I will tell you the whole story,' he answered.

He narrated the circumstances of Ortensia's flight substantially as they were known to the
Senator, and in as few words as possible, and she listened without interrupting him.

'I know this Pignaver,' he said in conclusion, 'and I know positively that he has engaged two
Bravi to follow the pair and murder them. At the best, he might be satisfied if Stradella were
murdered and the girl brought back to him. Those fellows may be even now in Ferrara, waiting
for a chance to do the deed. Our object is to unite the lovers and protect them on their journey
till they are beyond the reach of danger. Do you see any great harm in that?'

'They are not married,' objected the nun.

'I am sure they mean to be, as soon as possible,' Gambardella answered. 'You know what the
girl's life will be if you send her home, as I suppose you mean to do. You can guess the sort
of existence she will lead when her uncle has her safely imprisoned in his house. I have heard
it said that he intended to marry her, and if that is true he will deliberately torment her
and perhaps starve her till she dies. He is as vain as he is cruel, and she has not a relation
in the world to interfere with his doings.'

'Poor girl!' The Mother Superior sighed, and looked down at her folded hands.

'And even if you insist on keeping her here, where I admit that she is safe,' Gambardella continued,
'Stradella's life will not be safe when he is out of prison. For I will answer for it that
he will not leave Ferrara without her, and his murder will be the first consequence of your
refusal to let her join him.'

'But they are not married,' the nun said again. 'I cannot let her go to him. It would be a
great sin! It would be on my conscience!'

'You will have his death on your conscience if you are not careful! But there is a very simple
way out of the difficulty, if you will agree to it.'

'I will agree to nothing that is not right,' said the Mother Superior, in a tone that excluded
any compromise, 'and I tell you frankly that I do not trust you. It would be strange if I did.'

'I do not ask you to trust me,' Gambardella answered. 'I shall merely show you your duty, and
leave you to do it or not, as you please!'

'My duty?' The nun was both surprised and offended.

'Yes,' replied the other, unmoved. 'Your objection is that they are not married. Marry them,
then! That is plainly your duty, if anything is!'

The Mother Superior looked at him quickly, as if not believing that he was in earnest, for
she had been convincing herself that it was he who had carried off Ortensia, pretending to
be Stradella.

'It must be a very easy thing for you,' Gambardella continued. 'You have your own church here,
and your own priest, who will probably obey you. If you are afraid of committing an irregularity,
you need only send a request to the Archbishop, explaining that a runaway couple, for whom
you can vouch, wish to have their union blessed. No good bishop would refuse such a slight
favour as a dispensation from publishing banns. My friend and I will bring Stradella here early
in the morning, and you will send the bride into the church from the convent. They will go
away man and wife, and before noon we shall all be many miles on the road to Bologna and Rome.
Could anything be simpler than that? or more perfectly right? or more honourable for you under
the circumstances?'

The nun had listened attentively, and when he had finished she nodded her approval.

'I believe you are right,' she said, though her tone betrayed some surprise that she could
approve anything which he suggested. 'I will take it upon myself to promise that our chaplain
shall be waiting to-morrow morning after matins, and that the bride shall be ready in the sacristy.
Poor child, she is poorly provided for her wedding! But I will find a veil for her.'

'She will be grateful, and Stradella too. I have no doubt but that my friend has already obtained
his liberation.'

'What is your friend's name?' asked the Mother Superior, showing some curiosity for the first
time since the interview had begun.

Gambardella hesitated a moment, for the simple reason that he did not know the answer to the
question, and that 'Trombin' alone was evidently not a name, but a nickname. The mere fact
that the friends had both once had a right to sit in the Grand Council by no means implied
that they had known each other, even by sight. To gain time Gambardella smiled and asked a
counter-question.

'Why do you wish to learn his name?' he asked. 'You can never have known him.'

'That is true. It was idle curiosity. I do not care to know.'

'It is no secret,' Gambardella answered, having in the meantime thought of a name that would
do. 'My friend is Gaspero Mastropiero, a Venetian gentleman of fortune and a great patron of
musicians. And now,' he said, rising as he spoke, 'nothing remains for me but to thank you
for seeing me, and to take my leave. Will you give me back my ring, Reverend Mother?'

He stood before her, holding out his hand with the palm upward to receive the token, and he
laid a little stress on the title as he pronounced it. But there was no irony in his tone,
for, young as she still was, it had been conferred upon her quite as much for her holy life
as for her high descent, in an age when noble blood had great weight in such matters. He was
certainly not speaking ironically; perhaps, amidst the tatters of his honour, some rag still
covered a spot that could feel shame, and the monstrous deed, in doing which he had entrapped
the nun to help him unawares, seemed foul beside the purity of her intention and the saintliness
of her own life.

The emphasis he gave to the two words was, therefore, at once respectful and sad, and did not
offend her. She had put on the old brass ring herself when the portress had sent it up to her
with his message; she took it off now and gave it back to him, careful that not even the tips
of her fingers should touch his palm. Then she led the way, and he followed her.

'May you never put it to a worse use than to-day,' she said, stopping and letting her eyes
meet his for a moment. 'Good-bye.'

'Pray for me,' he said instinctively when he opened the door for her.

She said nothing, but she bent her head a little as she passed out, perhaps meaning that she
would do what he asked. He watched her tall retreating figure as she went up the middle of
the staircase, till she turned past the dividing wall at the first landing and disappeared
without having once looked back. Then he himself went away through the high corridor and the
dark lodge, and the portress let him out in silence.

He did not go back to the inn at once, for the distance was very short, and he judged that
Trombin could hardly have procured Stradella's liberation in so short a time. He wished to
be alone a little while, for, in spite of what he had come to be, his interview with the Mother
Superior had disturbed him strangely. He had thought himself far beyond that bitterness of
remorse and that sickness of shame which she had made him feel, and he wished to forget both
before he met his companion to discuss the execution of the deed they had promised to do together,
and could not now put off doing much longer. The nun's burning eyes still haunted and reproached
him, and her shadowy figure rose before him with the thin white face in which he could still
trace the beauty that had once enthralled him. It was the bare woof of beauty that remained,
for grief and penance had worn away the warp, leaving only the lines on which the exquisite
fabric had been woven; but what was left of the woman was still there, breathing and living,
while her soul had grown great in strength and spiritual honour till it towered above his who
had once loved her, and made him afraid to meet her look.

It could not last long, he knew, but while it did he must be alone. He walked far out on a
road that led through the rich damp plain, and it was not till the sun was sinking low that
he began to retrace his steps.

When he reached the inn he found Trombin and Stradella together, and his friend introduced
him with some ceremony as Count Gambardella. The musician, who was fully informed of the latter's
errand, pressed his hand warmly, and looked at him, evidently expecting news of Ortensia.

'The lady and her serving-woman are well, sir,' Gambardella said at once, 'and I trust that
to-morrow may end your difficulties happily.'

'I hope so indeed,' Stradella answered.

He looked pale and careworn, but no one would have guessed from his appearance that he had
just spent four nights and the better part of five days in the most noisome dungeon in Ferrara.
He wore the same black velvet coat with purple silk facings which he was wearing when Ortensia
saw him for the first time. It fitted him well and showed his athletic young figure to advantage,
for the fashion was not yet for the 'French' coat which Louis Fourteenth afterwards made universal.

Gambardella measured him with his eye, as Trombin must have done already. He wore only the
short rapier of a civilian gentleman, but he might be a good fencer and able to give trouble
to a single adversary, and he looked strong. Neither of the Bravi knew what physical fear meant,
but it was of no use to risk a useless wound, and men of Stradella's type could be more conveniently
despatched by stabbing them in the back than by going through the form of a duel.

'I have not been able to see the lady herself,' Gambardella continued, 'but the Mother Superior
of the Ursulines was so good as to receive me, and after some demur she agreed to let the Lady
Ortensia and her woman leave the convent early to-morrow morning.'

'Not till to-morrow?' Stradella could not hide his disappointment.

'To-morrow, and then only on one condition, which I took it upon me to promise that you shall
fulfil.'

The musician looked sharply at the speaker.

'I trust that you have not promised for me more than I may honourably do,' he said.

At this Trombin instantly pressed down the hilt of his rapier and made the point stick up behind;
he pursed his mouth and opened his eyes till they glared like an angry cat's.

'I would have you know, Signor Maestro, that it is not the custom of Venetian gentlemen to
promise anything not honourable, either in their own names or for others!'

Pignaver would have apologised at once if either of the Bravi had taken that tone, but the
Sicilian singer was made of better stuff than the Venetian Senator.

'Sir,' he answered quietly, 'I am not a quarrelsome man, and, moreover, I am deeply indebted
to you for my freedom. But there is a lady in this case. Let me first know what Count Gambardella
has promised in my name; for if, as I hope, it pledges me to nothing unworthy of the Lady Ortensia
or of myself, I shall be doubly in your debt; but if not, which heaven avert, I shall be at
your service for a quarrel, without further words.'

While he was speaking he met Trombin's ferocious stare steadily, and when he had finished he
turned to Gambardella. The Bravo liked his tone and manner as much as he had despised Pignaver
for his repeated apologies. It would be shameful to stab such a man in the back, Trombin thought;
as shameful and unsportsman-like as an Englishman thinks it to shoot a fox or to angle with
worms for fish that will take a fly.

'The Mother Superior,' said Gambardella, paying no attention to what had just passed, 'is a
saintly woman. She requires that before taking away the Lady Ortensia, you shall be duly married
in the church of San Domenico, early to-morrow morning. This, sir, I ventured to promise in
your name, and no more, as one man of honour speaking for another.'

'You could not have done me a greater service!' Stradella cried, surprised and delighted. 'I
am sorry that I ever questioned your good judgment, sir!'

Trombin's fierce expression relaxed into one better suited to his round pink cheeks, and peace
was immediately restored. But the Bravi exchanged glances which meant that they were perplexed
by the undeniable fact that they were beginning to like the musician, quite apart from their
admiration for his genius.

Before supper they consulted together in the privacy of Trombin's room over a thimbleful of
Greek mastic, which they drank as an appetiser. They were agreed not to lose sight of the young
couple again, and not to hurry matters to a termination. What could be more delightful than
to make the journey to Rome together with the greatest singer in the world and his bride, acting
at once as an armed escort and as friends ready to save the happy pair all trouble about small
details from day to day? Stradella had declared that he meant to reach Rome without delay,
while he was sure of a warm welcome and of the protection of Cardinal Altieri, in case Pignaver
sent any one in pursuit.

'Rome,' said Trombin thoughtfully, 'is a convenient place for doing business. The streets are
narrow, and there are many wells in the courtyards of the old houses.'

'It is true that we have never had any trouble in Rome,' Gambardella answered. 'Commend me
to narrow streets for business. I hate your great squares, your promenades, your gardens, and
your belvederes! Shall you ever forget that summer's evening on the Chiatamone in Naples?'

'I feel that I am still running away,' Trombin said. 'But Rome is quite different. It is true
that we have not yet decided which of the two it is to be. But I have just thought of a way
of getting both the fees.'

'For a man of imagination, you have taken a long time to think of it!'

'It is this. We will deliver up both in Venice, Stradella to the lady, and the girl to her
uncle. The lady will believe that the girl is dead, for she will never see or hear of her again,
and she will pay us in full. The Senator will pay half down when he gets his niece back, and
after the lady has enjoyed the Maestro's company for a few days he can be done away with, and
Pignaver will pay the balance. What do you think of that as a solution, my friend?'

'There is much to be said for it,' Gambardella admitted.

He nodded and sipped his mastic, which was not an easy operation, since he could not go on
filling the small glass as he would a tumbler of wine; but he ingeniously set it to one corner
of his mouth, well out of the way of his nose, and by turning his head on one side he succeeded
in sipping it to the end without spilling a drop.

'It is a monstrous thing to interrupt such a career as Stradella's,' he continued, for his
companion had said nothing. 'But five hundred ducats are a great deal of money, and beggars
cannot be choosers! Nevertheless, if you can think of some plan which will accomplish the same
result by saving the Maestro and putting the girl out of the way instead, I should prefer it.
A woman more or less makes no difference, but there is only one Stradella!'

'I will do my best,' Trombin answered, 'but you cannot have everything.'

The Bravi and Stradella supped in a room apart for greater privacy, because a large party of
noisy Bolognese merchants had arrived on their way to Venice, and were eating in the dining-room.
Cucurullo and Grattacacio waited on their masters, the dishes being brought to the door by
a scullion.

There were wax candles on the table in handsome candlesticks, for a mere brass oil-lamp was
not good enough for such fine gentlemen as Trombin and Gambardella when their pockets were
full of money; and in the middle of the board a magnificent majolica basket was filled with
cherries and green almonds.

The two servants eyed each other with a certain mutual distrust, for Grattacacio had at once
discovered that his colleague was one of those poor creatures that have not even the spirit
to cheat their masters, and Cucurullo's quietly penetrating intelligence detected under Tommaso's
accomplished exterior the signs of a still more accomplished scoundrel. For the present, however,
the two treated each other with much civility, and their three masters were admirably served
at supper.

They drank to one another in the old Burgundy, and Trombin proposed the health of the bride,
repeating in her honour one of Petrarch's sonnets in praise of Laura. He said that as he had
never seen her he could only compare her beauty to that of the angels, and her virtues to those
of the blessed saints, whom he had not seen either, and had no expectation of seeing hereafter;
similarly he likened the Maestro's voice to that of a seraph, on the ground that its like would
never be heard on earth.

Stradella laughed a little, for the first time in five days, and emptied his glass to Ortensia.
He was no match for his companions at eating and drinking, as he soon found out, and he was
satisfied long before they were; but the good old wine had brought back the warmth to his face
and hands, though he had drunk but little, and presently he went for his lute. He tuned it
and then played softly while Trombin ate candied fruit and Gambardella cut himself shavings
of fresh Parmesan cheese, which he nibbled with salt, and both drank wine, listening to his
music with delight.

It was worth hearing, indeed, for under his masterly touch the instrument sang, laughed and
wept, and whispered love-words at his will; now, one high string pleaded its passionate melody
to a low and sighing accompaniment that never swelled to reach it; and now, the nineteen strings
sounded together as a full orchestra, bursting in triumphant harmonies, and almost deafening
to hear; again, the deepest string began a fugue that was taken up by the next above and the
next, and traversed all, gathering sonorous strength as the parts increased from two to three,
from three to four, all moving at once to the grand climax, and then sinking again and falling
away one by one, softer and softer to the solemn close.

Stradella was profoundly happy, and he had but one way of expressing his happiness to himself,
which was the most beautiful way there is, for he made the art he loved his means of telling
the world his joy.

Later, when the window was open, and the young moon was shedding a gentle light upon the broad
square, he began to sing softly, wondering that he should have any voice left after what he
had suffered; but great singers are not like other men, at least as to their throats, and after
a few trials the rich notes floated out deliciously, as effortless and as true, as soft and
as strong as ever, in those marvellous love-songs of his own that thrilled all Italy while
he lived, and long afterwards.

The Bravi had turned their chairs to listen, for he had gone to the window. They had finished
their Burgundy, and most of his share to boot, and peace had descended on their restless souls;
and if, from all the delights the world held, they could have chosen one for that May evening,
they would have asked for none but this, to sit and listen to the greatest of living singers
and musicians, deeply in love, and singing more for himself than that any one might hear him.

'It is absolutely impossible,' said Trombin gravely to his companion, when Stradella paused
at last.

'Absolutely,' assented Gambardella.

'What is impossible?' the singer asked carelessly.

'To sing better than you,' answered Gambardella with a short laugh.

CHAPTER XII

Quite out of sight in the choir, more than sixty nuns and at least as many of their girl pupils
were still chanting matins when Stradella and the two Bravi entered the Church of San Domenico,
followed by Cucurullo. The latter's fellow-servant had left Ferrara at dawn with his masters'
luggage, to ride ahead and order rooms and dinner at Bologna for the whole party. Stradella
had secured a travelling-carriage on which his effects were already packed, and the harnessed
horses were standing ready to be put to.

Gambardella dipped his fingers into the nearest holy-water basin and held them out dripping
for Stradella to touch before he crossed himself, as the others also did; then all followed
him up the side aisle to the door of the sacristy, where they waited till the singing ceased.
The priest's deep voice spoke a few words alone, the nuns and pupils answered, and so again,
through the short Responsory; and after a moment the soft shuffling of many felt-shod feet
on the stone pavement was heard as the sisters and girls left the hidden choir in orderly procession.

The sacristan opened the padded swinging-door and saw the four men waiting. He was a small
man with a round red nose and he took snuff plentifully, as the state of his shabby black cassock
showed.

'If the gentlemen will put themselves to the inconvenience of coming in,' he said, 'they will
find all ready and the lady waiting.'

He spoke with obsequious politeness, but his eyes looked with sharp inquiry from one to the
other, trying to make out which of the three gentlemen was the bridegroom; that is to say,
which of them would tip him after the ceremony--for in such matters, as he well knew, much
may be guessed from the face and apparent humour of the giver.

He was relieved to see that Stradella now took the lead, and that every line of his handsome
young face betrayed his joyous anxiety to be married as soon as possible.

Between the church and the sacristy there was a damp and gloomy vestibule, at the end of which
the sacristan opened another swinging-door and Stradella suddenly saw Ortensia standing in
a blaze of light, covered from head to foot with a delicate white veil shot with gold threads;
for the early sun poured in through two great windows and flooded the sacristy, gleaming on
the carved and polished walnut wardrobes, blazing on the rich gold and jewels and enamel of
the sacred vessels and utensils in the tall glass-fronted case, and making a cloud of glory
in the bride's veil. It covered her face, but in the splendid light it hardly dimmed her radiant
loveliness.

Beside her, but half a step farther back, stood Pina, in her grey dress, as quiet and self-possessed
as ever. Near them stood a tall old priest who had a thin and gentle face.

Stradella sprang forward with outstretched hands, forgetting everything except that Ortensia
was before him. But he had not yet reached her side when the priest was between them, laying
one hand on his shoulder and quietly checking him, though smiling kindly, as if he quite understood.

The Bravi had started when they first caught sight of the Venetian girl, for neither of them
had expected such rare beauty; and with the added illusion of the gold-shot veil and the all-generous
sunshine, it was nothing less than transcendent. Trombin and Gambardella looked at each other
quietly, as they always did when the same thought struck them.

Meanwhile the tall old priest made the young couple kneel before the little altar on one side
of the sacristy, where two praying-stools had been placed in readiness. Pina knelt down a little
way behind her mistress, and Cucurullo took his place at the same distance behind his master;
but Trombin went and stood on Ortensia's left and Gambardella on Stradella's right, as witnesses
for the bride and bridegroom respectively.

Thus it was that the runaway couple were duly married and blessed in the sacristy of San Domenico
on that May morning, little dreaming why it had all been so cleverly managed for them; but
it was clear that Stradella had been prepared for the event, since he produced two wedding
rings of different sizes and gave them to the priest to bless.

'I will,' he said, in answer to the latter's question.

'I will,' said Ortensia in a low tone, but by no means doubtfully.

'Ego conjungo vos,' the priest went on; and the rest was soon said, the Bravi dropping on their
knees at the benediction.

Then the sacristan brought out the register and laid it on the broad polished table on which
the vestments were folded, placing pens and ink and the sand-box beside it; and the priest
first wrote a few words, to say that he had married the couple by a special dispensation from
the Archbishop of Ferrara; and Stradella and Ortensia signed their names, and after them the
Bravi, who indeed merely wrote 'Trombin' and 'Gambardella,' but managed to make their signatures
almost illegible with magnificent flourishes. The priest bade Pina and Cucurullo sign too,
as they said they could write, and the hunchback wrote 'Antonino Cucurullo' in a small neat
hand like a seminarist's, and Pina set down her name as 'Filippina Landi.'

The priest, who had watched the signing, looked at her in some surprise.

'Are you married or unmarried?' he asked quietly.

'Unmarried,' answered Pina in her hard voice, and she turned away.

For Landi was a patrician name; and though Jews, when baptized, usually took the surname of
the noble under whose auspices they were converted, it was quite clear that Pina was not of
Semitic race.

Stradella had taken Ortensia's hand and kissed it when the little ceremony was over, but that
was all, and neither could find words to speak. Pina took off the beautiful veil, folded it
on the polished table, and rolled it up to carry away, for the Mother Superior wished Ortensia
to keep it. Then the serving-woman produced the two brown cloaks in which she and her mistress
had fled from Venice, and they put them on, and all left the church together after thanking
the priest; and Stradella gave the sacristan two silver Apostolic florins, which was the largest
fee the fellow had ever received in his life.

When they were all in the street, the Bravi took off their hats and asked to be introduced
to the bride, and Stradella presented them with some ceremony, greatly to the surprise and
delight of some ragged children who had collected round the church steps; for Ortensia made
a court courtesy, and the Bravi bowed to the ground, sweeping the cobble-stones with their
plumes and sticking up their rapiers behind them almost perpendicularly in the air.

'Count Trombin, Count Gambardella,' said the musician to his wife, introducing the pair. 'These
gentlemen have liberated us from our respective prisons and have been kindly instrumental in
bringing about our marriage.'

'We owe you both a debt of undying gratitude, gentlemen,' said Ortensia, blushing a little
under her brown hood.

'It is an honour to have served your ladyship,' Trombin replied, with another grand bow.

Ortensia slipped her arm through Stradella's and pressed his surreptitiously against her side,
as if to say that she would never let him go out of her sight again; and she wished, as she
had never wished for anything in her life, that she were alone with him already, to throw her
arms round his neck and tell him the very things he was longing to tell her.

Behind them the Bravi walked in silence, their hands on the hilts of their rapiers and their
eyes fixed on the happy pair, each absorbed in his own reflections.

Trombin thought, in the first place, that Ortensia was one of the most beautiful young creatures
he had ever seen; and he flattered himself that he had seen many. Gambardella, on the other
hand, wore his most sour look, for he was disgusted to find that the impression left by his
interview with the Mother Superior was not so ephemeral as he had believed it to be; and being
angry with himself he wished that the whole business were finished, that Stradella were dead
and Ortensia safe in her uncle's hands, or that Ortensia were already killed and that Stradella
had been delivered to his Venetian admirer bound hand and foot and gagged, according to contract,
so that Gambardella might apply his mind to other matters.

But Trombin was not thinking only of the lady. The humour of the whole affair struck him as
delightful in the extreme, and he smiled to himself, showing his sharp white teeth, when he
thought of the tricks that had been played on the Legate and the Ursuline nuns in less than
twenty-four hours. It was most especially amusing to think how that cut-throat Gambardella,
the weight of whose sins would have staggered the Grand Penitentiary himself, had played Old
Morality to the Mother Superior, and had actually been the one to suggest a proper marriage
as the only virtuous solution of the difficulty.

There was not much time for such reflections, however, for the distance to the inn was short,
and when they reached it the young couple's travelling-carriage was ready and the horses were
saddled for the Bravi, who were already dressed for riding. So there was nothing to hinder
them all from starting at once, since the score was already paid.

In less than half an hour after they had left the church, the whole party was well outside
the city gates and on the road to Rome. 

She went to her little room reluctantly and could have cried because
it was all over now and because it was so melancholy in the dark.

She felt ashamed when she came down again and glanced askance at Doorke, who would think her so
plain in her week-day clothes. The boy looked at her and said nothing; then he jumped into the
cart and drove off slowly. Mother with Stanse and father with uncle came walking behind.

It was still light; the evening was falling slowly, slowly, as though the daylight would never end.
In the west the sky was hung with white and gold tapestry against an orange background. On the
other side, the moon, very wan still, floated in the pale-blue all around it. Beside the bluey
trees long purple stripes of shadow now lay, with fallen clusters
of branches, on the plain.

You could hardly tell if day or night were at hand.

Uncle and aunt were extremely pleased with their visit; uncle looked contentedly into the distance
and boasted that he had never seen such an evening nor such fine weather so early in the year,
while Frazie at each step flung her arms into the air and stopped to say things to Stanse,
whose good-natured laugh rang out over the plain and along the road. In front of them, Doorke,
like a little black shadow, danced up and down in his cart to the
jolting of the wheels as he jogged quietly along.

The crickets chirped in the ditch; and from high up in the trees came the dying twitter of birds
about to go to sleep.

Father wanted to drink a parting glass of beer in the Swan; Doorke could drive along slowly.

"Just
five minutes then," said Petrus.

There were many people in the inn and much loud merriment. The new arrivals were soon sitting
among the others, staying on and listening to all the jolly songs; and, when this had gone
on for some time, they forgot the hour and the parting. Aunt Stanse held her stomach with laughing;
she was not behindhand when the glasses had to be emptied or when her turn came to sing a song.
Amid the turmoil, the rent-farmer came up to Frazie, took her impudently by the arm, laughingly
wished her proficiat with her pretty daughter and, after slyly looking
about him for confirmation, said, half in earnest:

"We're planting
potatoes to-morrow at the Rent Farm, we shall want lots of hands;
missie may as well come too."

And with that he went back to his game of cards.

This time, the leave-taking was genuine.

Petrus got up; and it was good-bye till next year, when Doorke would make his first communion.

The
cart was waiting outside the door; they stepped in, uncle took the reins.

"A safe ride home!"

"Thanks for the pleasant visit! And to our next merry meeting!"

"God speed!... Good-night!"

"Gee up!"

The dogs sprang forward, the cart rumbled along and soon the whole
thing had become a shapeless black patch among the black trees.

In the still night they could just hear the wheels rattling over the cobbles; and then Ivo
and Frazie went home again.

A breeze came playing through the garden, sighing now and again with a sound as soft as silk; the
moon shone upon the dark trees and its light played like golden snow-flakes dancing and fluttering
down upon the gleaming crests of the green bushes and the milk-white plain. The air was heavy
and stifling, full of warm damp; and strong-scented gusts of fresh,
rain-laden perfumes blew across the road.

They stepped hurriedly on the legs of their long shadows and did not speak. There came a new rustling
in the trees and a few big, cool drops of rain pattered on the sand, one here, one there and
gradually quicker.

Ivo and Frazie hastened their pace; but, when the great drops began
to fall on them thick as hail and around them in the sand, till the
rain streaked through the air and rattled tremendously over their
heads, mother held her body with both hands to prevent its shaking,
Ivo tied his red handkerchief over his silk cap and they started running.

"It

was main hot for the time of year."

"And the flowers smelt too strong and the thrush sang so loud."

It went on raining: a wholesome, cleansing downpour, a slow descent in slanting lines that glittered
in the moonlight, bringing health to the earth. The air was fragrant with the wet grass and the white
flowers: it was like a rich garden. At home, everything was put away, the table cleared and
wiped; the lamp was alight and all the doors open. The boys were in bed. Horieneke had read
evening prayers to them and then hurried to her little room, to be
alone; and there she had lain thinking of all that had happened during
that long day: her jaws ached from the constant smiling; and she felt
dead-tired and sad.

Father took off his wet blouse and mother stirred up the fire: they would have one more cup
of coffee, with a drop of something, and then go to bed. Ivo lit his pipe and stretched out his
legs to dry beside the stove.

They drank their coffee and listened to the steady breathing of the boys and the dripping of the
gutters on the cobbles outside. Father made a remark or two about uncle and aunt and about their
village, but got only half-answers from his wife. Then, all of a sudden, he asked:

"What did the farmer come and say to you?"

Frazie sighed:

"They're planting potatoes to-morrow and we were to go and work; and Horieneke was to come too."

"Ay."

"But
she'll stay here!"

"What do you mean, stay here?"

"Yes, she's got her work to do at home."

"All right; but if she has to go?"

"Don't care."

And mother stood with her arms akimbo, looking at her husband, waiting for his answer.

"And if he turns us out and leaves us without work!"

"And suppose our child comes home with a present ... from that beast of a farmer!"

Ivo knocked out his pipe:

"Pooh, that could happen to her anywhere; and, after all, she won't be tied to her mother's apron-strings
all her life long!... When you live in a man's house and eat his bread, you've got to work for
it and do his will: the master is the master. Come, let's go to bed; we've a lot to do tomorrow."

Suppressed
sobs came from the little bedroom. Mother looked in. Horieneke lay with her hands before her
eyes, crying convulsively.

"Well, what's the matter?"

The child pressed her head to the wall and wept harder than ever.

"Come along, wife, damn it!

It's time that all this foolery was over, or she'll lose her senses altogether."

Mother grew impatient, bit her teeth:

"Oh, you blessed cry-baby!"

And angrily she thumped the child on the hip with her clenched fist and left her lying there.

"A nice thing, getting children: one'd rather bring up puppies any day!"

She turned out the light and it was now dark and still; outside, the thin rain dripped and the
white blossoms blew from the trees and the whole air smelt wonderfully good. In the distance,
the nightingale hidden in the wood jugged and gurgled without stopping; and it was like the pealing
of a church-organ all night long.

* * * * *

The weather had broken up and the day dawned with a melancholy drizzle and a cold wind. The
sky remained grey, discharging misty raindrops which soaked into everything and hung trembling like
strung pearls on the leaves of the beech-hedge and on the grass and on the cornstalks in the
fields. It was suddenly winter again. On the hilly field the people stood black, wrapped up,
with their caps drawn over their ears and their red handkerchiefs
round their necks.

The hoes went up in the air one after the other and struck the moist earth, which opened into
straight furrows from one end to the other of the field. Here wives walked barefoot, bent, with baskets
on their arm from which they kept taking potatoes and laying them, at a foot's distance, in the open
trench. In a corner of the field stood the farmer, his big body leaning
on a stick; and his dark eyes watched his labourers.

There, in the midst of them, was Horieneke, bent also like the others,
in her coarse workaday clothes, with a basket of seed-potatoes on
her arm; and her red-gold curls now hung, like long corkscrews, wet
against her face; and every now and then she would draw herself up,
tossing her head back to keep them out of her eyes.

* * * * *

IN THE SQUALL

* * * * *

VI

IN THE SQUALL

At noon, under the blazing sun, all three started for the wood, after blackberries.

Trientje was in her cotton pinafore, with a straw hat on her head
and a wicker basket on her arm.

Lowietje stood in his worn breeches and his torn shirt; in his pocket he had a new climbing-cord.
Each dragged Poentje by one hand, Poentje who still went about in his little shirt and, with
his wide-straddling little bare legs, trotted on between brother and sister.

They went along narrow, winding foot-paths, between the cornfields,
high as a man, through the flax-meadows and the yellow blinking mustard-flower.

The sun bit into Lowietje's bare head and sent the sweat trickling down his cheeks.

They went always on, with their eyes fixed upon that thick crowd of
blue trees full of blithe green and of dark depths behind the farthermost
trunks.

Poentje became tired and let himself be dragged along by his hands.

When he began to cry, they sat down in the ditch beside the corn to rest. Trientje opened her
basket and they ate up all their bread-and-butter.

Near them, in the grass, ants crept in and out of a little hole. Lowietje poked with a stick and
the whole nest came crawling out. The children sat looking to see all those beasties swarm about
and run away with their eggs.

All three stood up and went past the old mill, then through the meadow
and so, at last, they came to the wood and into the cool shade.

On the banks of the deep, hollowed path, it all stood thick as hail and black with the brambleberries.
Lowietje picked, never stopped picking, and put them one by one in his mouth; and his nose and
cheeks were smeared with red, like blood. Trientje steadily picked her whole basket full and Poentje
sat playing on the way-side grass with a bunch of cornflowers.

In the wood, everything was still: the trees stood firmly in the blaze of the sun and the young leaves hung
gleaming, without stirring. A bird sat very deep down whistling and its song rang out as in a
great church. Turtle-doves cooed far away. Round the children's ears hummed big fat bees,
buzzing from flower to flower. When the bank was stripped, they went deeper into the wood, Lowietje
going ahead to show the way. They crept through the trees where it twilighted and where the sun
played so prettily with little golden arrows in the leafage; from there they came into the high
pine-wood. Look, look! There were other boys ... and they knew where birds lived!

"Listen, Trientje," said Lowietje. "You stay here with Poentje: I'll come back at once and bring
your pinafore full of birds' eggs ... and young ones."

He fetched out his climbing-cord and, in a flash, all the boys were gone, behind the trees.
Trientje heard them shout and yell and, a little later, she saw her little brother sitting
high up on the slippery trunk of a beech. She put her hands to her mouth and screamed:

"Lo--wie!..."

It echoed three or four times over the low shoots and against the tall trees, but Lowietje did
not hear.

A man now came striding down the path; he carried a gun on his shoulder. The boys had only just
seen him and, on every side, they came scrambling out of the tree-tops, slid down the trunks and
darted into the underwood. Breathless, bewildered and scared to death, Lowietje came to his sister
and, with his two hands, held the rents of his trousers together:

"There were eight eggs there, Trientje, but the keeper came and, in the sliding, my trousers...."

And he let a strip fall. They were torn from end to end, from top to bottom, in each leg.

"Mother will be angry," said Trientje, very earnestly.

She took some pins from her frock and fastened the tears, so that the skin did not show.

Suddenly fell a rumbling thunder-clap that droned through all the wood and died away in a long
chain of rough sounds. The children looked at one another and then at the trees and the sky.
All stood black now, the sun was gone and a warm wind came working through the boughs, by gusts.
It grew dark as night and at times most terribly silent.

And now--they all crossed themselves--a ball of fire flew through the sky and it cracked and
broke and it tore all that was in the wood. The wind came up, the branches rocked and writhed
and the leaves fluttered and tugged and heavy drops beat into the sand.

"Quick, quick!" said Trientje. "It's going to lighten!"

Lowietje said nothing and Poentje cried. Each took the child by one hand and they ran as fast as they
could to get from under the trees.

"Ooh! Ooh!"

They dashed their hands before their eyes and stood still: a golden snake twisted round a tree
and all the wood was bright with fire and there came a droning and a rumbling and a banging as
of stones together and a hundred thousand branches burst asunder. Shivering, not daring to
look up, they crossed themselves again and all three crept under
the branches, deep down in a ditch.

Trientje tied her pinafore over the little one's face and they sat there huddled together,
shuddering and peeping through their fingers and saying loud Our Fathers.

"You must not look, Lowietje: the lightning would strike you blind."

The trees wrung their heavy boughs and everything squeaked and rustled terribly. The water rained
and poured from the leafy vault on Trientje's straw hat, on Lowietje's bare head and right
through his little torn shirt. And clap and clap of thunder fell; the sky opened and belched
fire like a hot oven. The children sat nestling into each other's arms--Poentje down under
the other two--and only when it had kept still for long did they all, trembling and terrified, dare
to put out their heads.

"I wish we were home now!" sighed Lowietje.

Once more the sky was all on fire and rumbling and breaking and crackling till the earth quaked
and shook.

"O God, O God, help us get out of the wood and home to mother!" whined Trientje.

When they opened their eyes again, they saw below them, in the bottom,
a huge beech with a bough struck off and the white splinters bare,
with leaves awkwardly twisted right round: it stood there like a fellow
with one arm off.

The rain now fell steadily in straight stripes; the noise grew fainter and the sky broke open.

Soaked
through with the wet, the children came creeping out of the ditch
and now, holding their breaths, stood looking at that tree which was
so awesomely cleft and at that crippled bough which hung swinging
over space.

The thunder still rumbled, but it was very far away, like heavy waggons rattling over hard stones.
Lowietje caught his little brother up on his back and they made straight for the opening of
the drove, where they saw a clear sky.

They must get out of the wood, away from those trees where such fearful things happened and
where it cracked so and where it was so dark.

Outside, the heaven hung full of gold-edged clouds and the sun drove
its bright darts through the sky.

The rain fell in lovely gleaming drops and all looked so new, so fresh and so strangely glad
as after a fit of weeping, when the glistening tears hang in laughing eyes. 'Twas all so peaceful
here and 'twas far behind them that the trees were twisted and bent.

Here and there flew birds; and the cuckoo sat calling in a cornfield.

Lowietje's shirt was glued to his skin; his trousers hung heavily from his limbs and his hair
fell in dripping tresses, sticking along his cheeks. The white spots on Trientje's pinafore
were run through with the black; and wet cornstalks whipped her little thin skirt. Poentje splashed
with his naked little feet in the puddles and asked for mother.

"We're almost home, child," said Trientje, to soothe him.

They went through the wet grass and fragrant cornfields along the slippery footpaths to a big
road.

Look, there, behind the turning, came mother: she had a sack-cloth
over her head and two umbrellas under her arm; she looked angry and
ugly.

"We shall get a beating," sighed Lowietje.

* * * * *

A PIPE OR NO PIPE

* * * * *

VII

A PIPE OR NO PIPE

He
dropped his wheel-barrow, strode from between the shafts and went
and looked into the great window of the tobacco-shop. His eyes were
all full, as far as they could carry: an abundance and a splendour
to dream about. He came a step nearer and rested his two elbows on
the stone window-sill, to see more comfortably.

Two stacks of motley
cigar-boxes stood on either side and ran together at the top into
a rounded arch, from which hung long, long pipes, cinnamon-wood pipes,
as thick as your arm, with green strings to them and huge, big bowls,
artfully carved into the heads of the King, of hideous niggers, or
of pretty girls with beads for eyes.

On thick, transparent glass
slips lay whole files of meerschaum pipes, furnished with clear curved-amber
mouthpieces: fishes' heads, lobster-claws holding an eggshell, horses'
heads, cows' hoofs; rich cigar-holders of meerschaum, all over silver
stars and gold bands. Heaps and heaps and lots and lots of every kind,
as far as he could see; and all this was multiplied in two enormous
mirrors, in which, yonder, far back among all this smoking-gear, he
saw his own face staring at him out of his great, astonished eyes.

He
sighed. It was all so beautiful, so rich! And now if mother had only
got work!

He went over it once more. Down below, in little plush-lined
trays, lay the small pipes, the boys' stuff. They lay scattered higgledy-piggledy,
whole handfuls of them, crooked and straight, brown and black. His
eyes thieved round voluptuously in those trays and they read with
eager curiosity the neatly-written figures which informed the world
how much each pipe cost.

Here, they were crooked, comical little
things of black cocus-wood; there, they were motley, speckled round
bowls, like birds' eggs, with white stems; but they cost too much.
And yet they were so charitably beautiful! Now his eyes remained hankering
after a splendid varnished bowl. It was almost tucked out of sight,
but it glittered so temptingly and had a lovely brown ring at the
edge, shading downwards to a pale gold-yellow: there was a little
cup for the oil to sweat into and a fat cinnamon stem, with a horn
mouthpiece. He examined it on every side and would have liked to turn
it over with his eyes. Inside the bowl stood, in black figures:

"1
fr. 50."

"Mother!..."

That was the one he wanted, that was his.
She had promised him a pipe if she got work to-day. If only she had
brought work with her!

After one last look and one more ... he went
on.

He caught up his barrow and pushed it, over the wide road, straight
to the station.

There he had to wait.

He loitered round the dreary,
deserted yard. The noon sun bit the naked stones; and everything,
hiding and shrinking from that glowing sun-fire, seemed dead. The
drivers sat slumbering on the boxes of their cabs; the horses stood
on three legs, their heads down, crookedwise between the shafts, and
now and then they gave a short stamp, to keep off the flies, which
were terribly active. A group of loafers lay sleeping on their stomachs
in the shade. A slow-moving vehicle drove past and disappeared round
the corner. A dog came stepping up lazily and went and lay under the
sunflowers near the signal-box, blinking his eyes.

There was nothing
more that moved.

At last the train came gliding in very gently, without
noise, and it sent a gulp or two of white smoke into the quivering
blue sky.

Now the boy stood stretching his neck through the railings,
on the look-out for his mother, whom he already saw in his thoughts,
coming bent, with a heavily-laden bag of weaving-stuff; and the pipe
was in his pocket ... or else nothing, nothing at all!

'Twas a fat
gentleman that got out first; then a tall, thin one; then a woman;
then another woman; always others; and now, now it was mother. She
stuck out her thin leg, groping from the high foot-board to find the
ground, and ... she had an empty blue-and-white canvas bag on her
shoulder. His lower lip dropped sadly and he turned slowly to his
barrow:

"No work yet. God better it!"

The mother threw her bag on
the wheel-barrow and they went on, without speaking.

Straight opposite
the tobacco-shop, the boy gave a sidelong glance at the great window,
with all those rich things displayed behind it, and he whistled a
little tune.

They had still far, very far to go, before they two
were at home, in their village. And the sun was burning.

* * * *
*

ON SUNDAYS

* * * * *

VIII

ON SUNDAYS

In his Sunday best! A
red-and-yellow flowered scarf was tied round his sun-burnt neck and
the two ends blew over his shoulders; a small brown-felt hat with
a curly brim was drawn down upon his head and, from under it, came
here and there a wisp of flaxen hair. He wore a small, open jacket,
with a short waistcoat, from under which a clean blue shirt bulged
out; and his long, much too long trousers fell in wide folds over
his big cossack shoes.[9] Under his arm he carried a bundle knotted
into a red handkerchief, while with the other hand he twirled a switch.

[9]
Hob-nailed shoes fastened with straps.

He was a growing youngster,
a well-set-up cowherd, with a brown, freckled face, small, pale-grey
eyes, under milk-white eyebrows, and bony knees and elbows: a sturdy
fellow in the making.

'Twas heavenly, grand Sunday weather: it shone
with light and life and it was all green, pale, splendid green, against
a clear blue sky in the middle of the afternoon.

He stepped on bravely,
along the wide drove of elms, twisting his switch, and looked into
the free sky with his young, grey-blue eyes. He thought ... of what?
Of nothing! Truly, of nothing: what does a cowherd think of? Wait
a bit, though; he was thinking: 'twas Sunday! It was Sunday once more,
the glad Sunday! And there were so few Sundays in those long, long
weeks. And he was going home for a few hours: yes, home; and from
there to Stafke's and to Stafke's pigeons.

He was hard-worked at
the farm: twenty-nine cow-beasts, which were always hungry and always
wanted fattening; furthermore, a whole herd of calves and hogs: 'twas
a drudging without end or bottom, from early morning to late at night,
until his limbs hung lame.

The farmer was good but strict and could
not abide sluggards; he looked for work, hard work; and this the lad
was glad to give, but only while looking forward to the everlasting
Sunday, in which lay all his happiness and cheer.

He quickened his
steps; and the elms pushed by, one by one, and at last, ahead, very
far down that dark hedge of stems and leafage, came a tiny opening
where the trees seemed to touch one another.

Look! There, beside
the little village church, stood Farmer Willems' homestead, with its
little slate turret and the great poplars and, beside it, close together
and quite hidden in the green, two little cottages. 'Twas there that
he was brought up and had grown up; there, in one of those cottages.
In the other lived Stafke's father and mother. The children had led
the half-wild life of the country there: two little boys together.
They had clambered up those mighty trees, weltered in the sand of
the drove and coursed like foals in the meadow. The farm was a free
domain to them; they were at home in it; they went daily to the little
door of the wash-house to fetch their slice of rye-bread-and-butter
and, in the morning, an apple or a pear. They had lain and rolled
in the hay-loft, like fish in the water; but all that had passed so
quickly, so very quickly. The parish-priest came; and, for six months,
six long months, they had had to go to school and church. Then, on
a certain Monday morning, father said:

"Lad, you're coming along
to the farm to-day, to bind corn."

Play was over, the free play of
the country! They were pressed into labour, were saddled with the
labourer's heavy burden. Since then, it had been an endless roving
after work, from one farm to another, with his bundle under his arm.

Stafke
had remained serving at Willems', with father, and he, on Sunday afternoons,
had not so far to go, under the burning sun, in order to get home.

The
way was long for an unthinking lad; and they seemed endless, those
never-changing rows of tree-trunks, those uncounted yellow, blinking
cornfields ... and never a creature on the road. It was something
very much out of the way when a pigeon flew through the azure sky;
the lad stood still and, turning round, followed the great ring which
it made until it dropped far away, yonder among the houses of the
village.

'At all events they would leave us alone, if they thought so! But I did not mean it in that
way. I think you do not care whether men make love to me or not!'

She was not quite pleased, and as she leaned her head back against the wall he saw her pouting
lips in the moonlight.

'I like to be envied,' said Stradella.

As he made this singular answer he bent over a mandoline he had been holding on his knee and
made the point of the quill quiver against the upper strings with incredible lightness, so
that the tinkling note seemed to come from very far away and could not interrupt the conversation.

'I do not understand,' Ortensia said, after a moment, and she lifted her arms and made her
clasped hands a pillow between the back of her head and the wall.

'The beauty of anything is its immortal part,' he said; 'its real value is as much as people
will give for it, neither more nor less. Do you not understand me yet?'

'Not quite. Why do you talk in riddles? I am not very clever, you know!'

'You are beautiful, dear. I have often told you so, and other men will if they get a chance.
But as one of nature's works of art I doubt whether you are more beautiful than almond-blossoms
in spring, or the dawn in the south on a summer's morning. Do you see?'

'No. Is it a parable? What will you compare me to next?'

Stradella was making sweet far-off music on the instrument. It came a little nearer and then
died away into the distance, when he was ready to speak again.

'You may have almond-blossoms by hundreds in March for nothing,' he said, 'and any one may
see the dawn who is awake so early! They have perfect beauty, but no value. No one can really
envy a man who brings an armful of flowers home with him, or who sees the dawn of a fine day,
yet both are quite as lovely as you are, in their own fashion, though they are common. But
you have their beauty, and besides, you are of immense value, not to me only but to the whole
race of men, because you are not only beautiful, but also a very rare work of nature, far rarer
than pearls and rubies.'

'Then it was all a pretty compliment you were paying me!' Ortensia smiled. 'Of course I could
not understand what you meant!'

Stradella laughed low, and the mandoline was silent for a while.

'The way to make compliments is to find out what a woman most admires in herself and then to
make her believe it is ten times more wonderful than she supposed it could be. No one has ever
told that secret yet, but it has opened more doors and balcony windows than any other.'

'That was not your way of opening mine, dear!' laughed Ortensia. 'I am afraid you needed no
secret at all to do that.'

Again he touched the mandoline, but it was not mere tinkling music now, making believe that
it came all the way down the long street from the dismal Tor di Nona by the bridge. It was
that love-song he had made for her in Venice, and had sung to her when Pina left them together
the first time; a measure of the melody trembled through the upper strings, and then his own
voice took up the words in tones breathed out so easily that the highest never seemed to be
high, nor to cost him more effort than ordinary speech. Of all instruments the violoncello
can yield notes most like such a voice, when the bow is in a master's hand.

In Rome, at night, he may sing who will, even now: if he goes bawling out of tune through the
silent streets, though it be not from drink but out of sheer lightness of heart, the first
policeman he meets will silence him, it is true; but if he sings well and soberly he may go
on his way rejoicing, for no watchman will hinder him. It is an ancient right of the Italian
people to sing when and where they please, by day or night, in the certainty that tuneful singing
can never give offence nor disturb even a dying man.

So the great master of song sat in the high balcony on that June night and let his voice float
out over moon-lit Rome; and presently Ortensia slipped from her chair and knelt before him,
her hands clasped on his knees and looking up to his face, for his magic was more enthralling
now than when it had first drawn her to him.

When he reached the end he kissed her, the last long-drawn note still vibrating on his lips,
and she felt that they were cold and trembling when they touched hers.

'Yes,' she whispered, drawing back just enough to see his eyes in the moonlight, 'that was
the key to my window. When I heard that song I knew you loved me already, and that I must love
you too, sooner or later, and for all my life. It is not my poor beauty that is rarer than
pearls and rubies, love, but your genius and your voice. I know what you mean now! I like to
be envied by other women because you are mine, with all you are, you, and your fame, and everything!'

'Do you see?' Stradella laughed softly. 'You should not be angry with people who stare at you,
any more than I am with people who listen when I sing! And I am no more jealous because Don
Alberto admires you than you should be because Queen Christina likes my singing, as she says
she does.'

'Tell me, Alessandro, is that a black wig she wears, or is it her own hair?' asked Ortensia,
pretending to be serious.

'In confidence, my love, it is a wig,' Stradella answered with extreme gravity.

'So much the better. I am glad she admires your singing; but if it were not a wig, perhaps
I should be less glad. Do you think Don Alberto's fine black hair is his own, dear; and are
his legs quite real?'

'Without doubt.'

'Then I think you ought to be just a little less glad that he stares at me, than if his legs
were padded and he wore a wig as the Queen does, and were forty, as she is, with bad teeth
and a muddy complexion like hers! You know you should be just a very little less pleased, dear!'

In the moonlight he could see her smiling, for her face was close to his, and she had laid
her hands on his shoulders, while she still knelt at his knees.

'But that would mean that I was jealous, dear heart,' objected Stradella. 'Why am I to be jealous
because he admires you, unless you like him too much? Most women say that a man is a brute
to be jealous at all till they have run away with some one else! Your uncle, for instance,
is really justified in being jealous of me.'

'Really?'

Ortensia laughed and kissed again before saying anything more; and just as their lips touched,
the silver light began to fail, and the young moon dropped behind the Vatican Hill, and when
they separated it seemed quite dark by comparison. Now any one can easily find out how long
it takes the moon to set after she has touched the shoulder of a hill; and hence the exact
number of seconds during which that particular kiss lasted can easily be ascertained. But time,
as Danish people say, was made for shoemakers; and Ortensia and Stradella took no account of
it, but behaved in the most foolishly dilatory way, just as if they were not a plain, humdrum,
married couple that should have known better than to spend the evening in a balcony, alternately
sentimentalising, kissing, and singing love-songs.

That was the last evening they spent at the Sign of the Bear, and though they had talked idly
enough in the loggia under the light of the young moon about such very grave subjects as jealousy
and envy, they afterwards cherished ineffaceable memories of that sweet June night.

For there had been an interlude in the comedy of their troubles, wherein love had dwelt with
them alone and in peace, making his treasures fully known to them, and guiding their footsteps
while they explored his kingdom and his palace; and they both felt instinctively that the interlude
was over now, and that real life must begin again with their change of lodgings. Stradella
was a musician and a singer, without settled fortune, and he must return to the business of
earning bread for them both; moreover, he was famous, and therefore could not possibly get
his living obscurely. The Pope's adopted family would vie with the ex-Queen of Sweden, the
Spanish Ambassador and the rich nobles, to flatter him and attract him to their respective
palaces. Alberto Altieri, who had lost his heart to Ortensia's beauty at first sight, would
organise every sort of fashionable entertainment for the young bride's benefit, and would do
his best to turn her head by magnificent display. Hereafter, till the summer heat drove the
Romans to the country, no evening gathering in a noble house would deserve mention if Stradella
and his wife were not there, as no concert would be worth hearing unless some of his music
was performed. The young couple would be continually in the very vortex of fashion's whirlpool,
and though they would not resent the distinction, and might even enjoy the gaiety for a few
weeks, they would have but little time left for each other between morning and midnight.

It was apparent on the very first night they spent in the Palazzo Altieri that Don Alberto
was not the only young man in Rome who wished to please Ortensia. Soon after the second hour
of night, which we should call about ten o'clock in June, Stradella and Ortensia heard music
in the narrow street below their new quarters; and as the sounds did not move farther away,
it was almost immediately apparent that the singers were serenading Ortensia. It was no ordinary
music, either; there were half-a-dozen fine voices and four or five stringed instruments, played
with masterly skill--a violin, a 'viola d'amore,' and at least two or three lutes.

Stradella put out the light in the room and opened the outer shutters a little, for they had
been closed. The moon was shining even more brightly than on the previous night, but the rays
did not fall as they fell on the loggia at the inn; the roofs of the low houses opposite were
partly illuminated, and the belfry of San Stefano, and of the little church of Santa Marta
and the Minerva much farther away; but that side of the irregularly built Altieri palace and
the street below were almost in darkness. Looking down between the shutters, Ortensia and Stradella
could only see deeper shadows within the shade, where the serenaders were standing, and they
were sure that the latter could not see them at all. They listened with delight, their heads
close together, and each with one arm round the other's waist.

'They are men from the Pope's choir,' Stradella whispered, 'or from Saint Peter's.'

The first piece was finished, and the musicians exchanged a few words in low tones, while one
or two of them tuned their instruments a little. A moment later they began to play again, and
as Stradella recognised the opening chords of one of his own serenades, a rich-toned voice
began the song.

Ortensia's arm tightened a little round her husband, and his round her, and their young cheeks
touched as they listened and peered down into the gloom of the narrow street. Suddenly there
was a stir below, and the sound of other feet coming quickly from the Piazza del Gesù; and
though the serenade was not half finished, another choir and other instruments struck up a
chorus, loud and high, almost completely drowning the first.

Stradella uttered an exclamation of surprise. The newcomers sang and played quite as well as
the first party, if not better, and the music was Stradella's too--a triumphal march and chorus
which he had composed when last in Rome for the marriage of the Orsini heir. It had been intended
to drown all other sounds while the wedding procession was leaving the church, and it now fulfilled
a similar purpose most effectually.

For a moment Stradella imagined that it was only meant as a surprise, and a reinforcement to
the first party, and that the whole company of musicians would play and sing together. That
would have been indeed a royal serenade; but half a minute had not passed before things took
a very different turn, for the party in possession of the street charged the newcomers after
a moment's deliberation; the twanging of strings turned into a noise of stout sticks hitting
each other violently and smashing an instrument now and then, and steel was clashing too, while
the voices that had lately sung so tunefully now shouted in wild discord.

Suddenly a flash of bright light darted through the dim confusion as a dark lantern was opened,
and the glare fell full on the face and figure of Don Alberto Altieri, who stood hatless, sword
in hand, facing an adversary who was quite invisible to the couple at the window. The instant
the light was seen, the others of the two parties ceased fighting and retired in opposite directions.

'Sir,' said a voice which Stradella and Ortensia instantly recognised as Trombin's, 'I see
that you are at least as young as you are noble, if not more so, and I shall therefore not
press my acquaintance upon you so far as to take your life. But I shall tell you plainly, sir,
that I am a fencing-master by my profession, and if you do not immediately dissolve into air,
or, to put it better, melt away with all your company, I will lard you, in the space of thirty
seconds, with fifteen flesh wounds in fifteen different parts of your body, not one of which
shall be dangerous, but which, being taken in what I may call the aggregate, shall keep you
in your bed for a month, sir. And moreover, sir, as you do not seem inclined to lower your
guard and go away, there is one!'

The long rapier flashed in the light of the lantern, and instantly Don Alberto's sword fell
from his hand. Trombin had run him neatly through the right forearm, completely disabling him
at the first thrust.

The Bravo at once stooped, picked up the weapon and politely offered him the hilt, but he could
not take it with his right hand, and grasping the blade itself with his left, he just managed
to get it into the sheath.

'At least,' he cried, furious with humiliation and pain, 'that gentleman with the lantern there,
who employs you, will answer to me for this in broad daylight, when my wound is healed.'

'With pleasure, sir,' answered the voice of Gambardella. 'But as one gentleman to another,
I warn you that I am also a fencing-master.'

The instant Don Alberto was wounded his musicians had taken to flight, and he had now no choice
but to follow them, which he did with as much dignity as he could command, considering that
he was hatless, wounded, and altogether very badly worsted, for he had understood that he had
fallen in with Bravi, probably employed by a rival. As soon as it was evident that he was going
away, the lantern was shut and the street was dark again, Trombin's musicians tuned their instruments,
and in two or three minutes the triumphal march rang out again, louder and higher than ever.

In the dimness above Stradella and Ortensia looked at each other, though they could hardly
see one another's faces.

'Your two admirers mean business!' said the musician with some amusement. 'Trombin will seem
less ridiculous the next time you see him staring at you!'

'How can you laugh!' asked Ortensia gravely, for she had never before seen men face each other
with drawn swords.

She had always been taught that duelling was as wicked as it was dangerous, and her uncle Pignaver
had shared that orthodox opinion; nevertheless, though she would not willingly have acknowledged
it to her confessor, she was glad that Trombin had driven the lady-killer from the field, and
she only wished that Stradella might have done it himself. As for the Bravi's serenade, she
did not resent it at all, nor did her husband; it was a friendly entertainment, and nothing
more, on the part of the two wealthy Venetian gentlemen to whom the young couple already owed
an immense debt of gratitude. When the chorus was ended, Stradella clapped his hands.

'Bravo!' cried Ortensia, and the word sounded clearly in the momentary silence.

'At your ladyship's service!' answered Trombin in a laughing tone, for the jest she unconsciously
made in using the single word seemed to him full of humour.

Gambardella's dark lantern sent its searching ray up to the window at that moment, and showed
the heads of the two young people close together, for the shutters were now wide open; an instant
later the light went out and the music began again. It was a madrigal this time, airy and changing,
and sung by four men, one of whom had a beautiful male contralto, which is a rarity even in
Italy. Stradella recognised it instantly, for he had often sung at the Lateran and knew the man.

'They are of the choir of Saint John's,' he whispered to Ortensia.

There was rivalry between the Lateran and the Vatican in the matter of music then, as there
has been in our own day, and it was no wonder that the musicians themselves had joined in the
fray when Don Alberto drew on Trombin and Gambardella.

The serenade continued, and the two Bravi enjoyed it quite as much as Ortensia herself; but
it was not likely that Don Alberto would be satisfied to go quietly to bed after being wounded
under the very walls of his father's palace by a professional cut-throat who had been doubtless
hired to protect a rival serenader. There was a guardhouse of the watch not far away, at the
foot of the Capitol Hill, and thither he hastened, after twisting his silk scarf round his
forearm as tightly as he could to staunch the blood.

In less than a quarter of an hour he came back with a corporal's guard of the night-watchmen,
armed with clumsy broadswords, but each carrying a serviceable iron-shod cudgel of cornel-wood
which, according to old Roman rhyme, breaks bones so easily that the blows do not even hurt:
'Corniale, rompe le ossa e non fa male.' The corporal himself carried an elaborately wrought
lantern of iron and glass, ornamented with the papal tiara and crossed keys.

Now the Bravi did not know Alberto Altieri by sight, and they had treated him as if he were
of no more account than several hundred other young noblemen, sure that he would have his scratch
dressed and go quietly to bed like a sensible fellow who has had the worst of it. Therefore
when the watch came in sight suddenly, from behind the corner of the palace that juts out sharply
towards San Stefano, the serenaders did not connect the appearance of the patrol with their
late adversary, who had disappeared in the opposite direction; on the contrary, they went on
singing and playing, well aware that night-watchmen never interfered with such innocent diversions,
but would generally stop on their round to enjoy the music. Even now, when they came straight
towards the musicians, the latter only made way quietly, supposing that they wished to pass.
It was not till Gambardella recognised Don Alberto's face by the light of the corporal's lantern
that he understood, and drew his rapier just in time to save himself from being arrested.

'Run, while we hold the street!' he yelled to the musicians, who did not wait for a second
invitation, but fled like sheep down the Via del Gesù.

Trombin's blade was out almost as soon as his companion's, and the two Bravi faced the watch
side by side. Their hats were drawn well over their eyes, and they had clapped on the little
black masks most people carried then, so that they were in no fear of being recognised. The
corporal, who seemed to be a determined fellow, swung his stick like a sabre, to bring it down
on Gambardella's head, but it found only the empty air in its path, and at the same time the
officer's left hand was so sharply pricked that he dropped the big lantern, which rolled on
its side and went out. Meanwhile Trombin had parried the blow his nearest adversary had struck
at him, and in return had instantly disabled him by running him through the right forearm,
precisely as he had done by Don Alberto.

A moment later Gambardella opened his dark lantern, and held it in his left, so that he and
Trombin became almost invisible to their adversaries and had them at a great disadvantage.
Furious, the corporal struck another wild blow with his staff, but Gambardella dodged it even
more easily than before, being behind the lantern that dazzled the other; and as the iron-shod
stick hit the ground after missing its aim, the officer felt the Bravo's blade run through
the muscles of his upper arm, like a stream of icy water, followed instantly by burning heat.
With a hearty curse he backed out of the way of another thrust and bade his men draw their
broadswords and finish the matter.

But this was more easily said than done. The half-dozen men obeyed, indeed, so far as drawing
and brandishing their clumsy weapons was concerned, but the street was narrow, the lantern
dazzled them, and the two long rapiers with their needle points and solid blades pointed out
at them in the circle of light, ready to run in under the awkward broadsword guard with deadly
effect.

The corporal swore till Cucurullo, who was looking out of another upper window, expected to
see him struck by lightning, and all the people who were now at the windows of the low houses
opposite the palace crossed themselves devoutly; but it was of no use, as long as those two
gleaming points kept making little circles slowly in the light. There was not a man in the
corporal's guard who would have gone within an arm's length of them.

Seeing that they already had the best of it, the Bravi began to advance by regular short steps,
moving the right foot forward first and then the left, as if they were on the fencing ground,
their rapiers steadily in guard; and the watchmen fell back, fearing to face them. But that
was not enough; for though the two might drive the little band in that way from street to street,
if they but lowered their points a moment their adversaries would spring in upon them, even
at some risk.

'We are mild-tempered men,' said Trombin at last, 'but we are both fencing-masters, and it
will not be prudent to irritate us, or, as I may say, to drive us to extremities. You had better
go your way quietly and let us go ours.'

'If you do not,' said Gambardella, who was excessively bored, 'we will skewer every mother's
son of you in five minutes, by the holy marrow-bones of Beelzebub!'

This singular invocation arrested the attention and disturbed the equanimity of the watchmen;
they could stand being sworn at by every saint in the calendar, by every article of the Nicene
Creed, and, generally, by everything sacred of which their corporal had ever heard, but they
did not like men who invoked relics of such horrible import as those which Gambardella had
named. Nor were their fears misplaced, for as they hesitated for two or three seconds before
turning to run, the Bravo made a spring like a wild cat, struck the corporal violently on the
nose with the iron guard of his rapier, jumped back one step, and then, lunging an almost incredible
distance as the corporal staggered against the wall, ran the man behind him through the fleshy
part of the shoulder. On his side, Trombin advanced too, pretended to lunge and then suddenly
struck the man before him such a stinging blow with the flat of his rapier that the fellow
howled and fled, whereupon Trombin encouraged his speed by prodding him sharply in the rear.
In a moment the confusion was complete, and the watchmen were tumbling over each other in their
hurry to escape. Then the lantern was suddenly shut, and the two Bravi faced about and ran
like deer in the opposite direction.

CHAPTER XV

Don Alberto did not care to tell how he had been wounded, and kept the matter between himself,
his doctor, and his own man, giving out that he had been thrown from his horse and had broken
one of the bones of his forearm, a story which quite accounted for his wearing his arm in a
sling when he appeared after keeping his room during five days. It was natural, too, that Stradella
and Ortensia, who had recognised him by the light of the lantern, should say nothing about
the matter, and the Bravi did not know who the young man was; so there was a possibility that
the whole affair might remain a secret.

Trombin, however, was anxious to discover the name of the adversary he had wounded, and Gambardella
was not unwilling to help him, though he considered him quite mad where Ortensia was concerned.

'You have no imagination,' Trombin objected, in answer to this charge. 'Can you not understand
the peculiar charm of being in love with a lady of whom I have agreed to make an angel at the
first convenient opportunity, and whom I have further promised to deliver safe, sound, and
alive to her uncle in Venice?'

'I wish you joy of your puzzles,' answered Gambardella discontentedly.

'I derive much solace from the pleasures of imagination,' Trombin observed, following his own
train of thought. 'In me a great romancer has been lost to our age, another Bandello, perhaps
a second Boccaccio! An English gentleman of taste once told me that my features resemble those
of a dramatist of his country, whose first name was William--I forget the second, which I could
not learn to pronounce--but that my cheeks are even rounder than his were, and my mouth smaller.
Under other circumstances, who knows but that I might have been the William Something of Italy?
My English friend added that the painted bust of the dramatist on his tomb was quite the most
hideous object he had ever seen, so I do not tell you the story out of mere vanity, as you
might suppose. My misfortune is that I am generally driven by a sort of familiar spirit to
do the things I imagine, instead of writing them down.'

'And pray what do you imagine you are going to do next?' inquired Gambardella.

'It has occurred to me that I might carry off the lady myself,' Trombin answered in a thoughtful
tone.

'And leave me to manage the rest?'

'You will have no trouble. I shall take the road to Venice, of course, and after a month or
two I will hand the lady over to Pignaver, for I dare say she will soon tire of my company.
As for you, you will only have to follow her husband, for he will go after his wife as fast
as he can, of his own accord, and when you both reach Venice together, I shall be waiting and
we will lead him into a trap and give him up to his pretty adorer! The rest will be as I said.
She will not be able to keep him a prisoner very long, and when he leaves her house we can
settle the business.'

'And of course you will expect me to help you in carrying the young woman off?'

'Naturally! Should you feel any scruples about it?'

'No,' Gambardella answered, in an indifferent tone, but he changed the subject and went back
to the question of the rival serenader's identity. 'It might be as well to think of more practical
matters,' he said. 'The excellent Tommaso has not found out anything about the man you wounded
last night, though he has already ascertained exactly where the ex-Queen of Sweden keeps her
jewels!'

'Intelligent creature! He really has a good store of general information! I dare say he will
take them some day and leave us without giving notice.'

'It must be very convenient to be born so low in the world as to be able to steal without disgrace,'
observed Gambardella thoughtfully. 'I suppose such fellows have no sense of honour.'

'None whatever,' said Trombin, with equal gravity. 'As you say, it must make many things easy
when one has no money.'

This conversation had taken place under the great colonnade before Saint Peter's, late in the
afternoon, when the air was pleasantly cool. Bernini's colonnade was new then, and some of
the poorer Romans, dwelling in the desolate regions between the Lateran and Santa Maria Maggiore,
had not even seen it. It might have been expected that it was to become the resort of loungers,
gossips, foreigners, dealers in images and rosaries, barbers, fortune-tellers, and money-changers,
as the ancient portico had been that used to form a straight covered way from the Basilica
to the Bridge of Sant' Angelo; but for some inexplicable reason this never happened, and it
was always, as it is now, a deserted place.

The Bravi, who were men of taste, according to their times, admired the architecture extremely,
and often walked there for half an hour before it was time to hear the Benediction music in
the church, which was always good and sometimes magnificent.

This afternoon they were strolling not far from the bronze gate that gives access to the Vatican;
a dozen paces or more behind them, within call but out of hearing of their conversation, walked
the excellent Tommaso, otherwise known as Grattacacio, the ex-highway robber, about whom they
had just been talking. The last words had barely passed Trombin's lips when they heard the
man's footsteps approaching them rapidly from behind. They stopped to learn what was the matter.

'A young gentleman on a mule is coming, with several servants,' Tommaso said quickly. 'He has
his right arm in a sling. Perhaps he is your man.'

The two friends nodded carelessly, but drew their hats a little lower over their eyes as they
turned and walked back, skirting the inner side of the colonnade so as to watch the party that
was coming straight across the Piazza in the sun from the direction of Porta Santo Spirito.
As soon as they saw the face of the young man who rode the mule they recognised Trombin's adversary,
who wore his broad-brimmed hat far down on the left to screen him from the sun, thus exposing
the right side of his face to their view. They went on quietly, as if they had hardly noticed
him, and he paid no attention to them. When he and his three servants had almost reached the
bronzed gates, the Bravi despatched their man after him to find out his name from the groom
who would hold his mule, while they themselves remained where they were, walking slowly up
and down, a dozen steps each way.

'I see a golden opportunity rising in the distance,' said Trombin. 'It illuminates my imagination
and lights up my understanding.'

'It will probably dazzle mine, so that I shall see nothing at all,' observed Gambardella with
his usual sourness.

'Possibly,' Trombin answered pleasantly. 'I shall therefore hide my light under a bushel, as
it were, and thus spare your mental eyes a shock that might be fatal to them. For my present
inspiration is of such a tremendous nature that an ordinary intelligence might be unsettled by it.'

'Could you not communicate the nature of it in small doses, as it were?' asked Gambardella,
mimicking him a little. 'One can get accustomed even to poisons in that way, as Mithridates did.'

'To oblige you, I will attempt it, my friend, but I shall endeavour to lead you to guess the
truth yourself by asking questions, instead of presenting it to you in disjointed fragments.
Now consider that youth whom I ran through the arm the other night, and answer me. Do you suppose
that he was serenading Pina, the serving-woman, or Ortensia her mistress?'

'What a question! It was Ortensia, of course.'

'But was he serenading the Lady Ortensia out of ill-feeling towards her, or out of good-feeling?'

'Out of good-feeling.'

'What is the good-feeling of a handsome young man towards a beautiful young woman usually called,
my friend?'

'Love, I suppose. What nonsense is this?'

'It is the Socratic method, as recorded by Plato. I learned something of it when I was a student
at Padua. Now, you have told me that the young man feels love for the young woman, and you
appear to be right; but what do you think he hopes to get from her in return, love or dislike?'

'Her love, no doubt.'

'You answer well, my friend. Now tell me this also. Will he get her love without the consent
of her husband, or with it?'

'Without, if he gets it at all! I am tired of this fooling. It bores me excessively.'

'You will not be bored long,' answered Trombin with confidence. 'Answer me one question more.
Do you suppose that the young man will have any success with the Lady Ortensia, unless he can
separate her from Stradella by some stratagem?'

Gambardella looked sharply at his wordy companion.

'I begin to take your meaning,' he said.

'You have a good mind,' Trombin answered, 'but it works slowly. You are on the verge of guessing
what my inspiration is. Let us, for a large consideration, be the means of carrying off the
Lady Ortensia for this rich young man, and when we have done so and received his money, let
us execute the plan we have already made. For it will be easy for us to persuade her to do
anything we suggest, because both she and her husband are under the greatest obligations to
us, whereas the young man would have to employ violence and make a great scandal. But here
comes that excellent Tommaso.'

'You are certainly a great man,' said Gambardella, looking at Trombin with admiration.

It was clear from Tommaso's face that the intelligence he brought was important, and as he
stood hat in hand before his masters he looked up and down the colonnade to see if there were
any one in sight and near enough to listen.

'The gentleman is Don Alberto Altieri,' he said, almost in a whisper.

Trombin at once puffed out his pink cheeks, pursed his lips, and whistled very softly, for
he was much surprised; but Gambardella seemed quite unmoved, and merely nodded to Tommaso as
if well satisfied with the latter's service. Then the two strolled on again, and their cut-throat
servant followed them, just out of hearing of their conversation, as before; for he was much
too wise to try any common trick of eavesdropping on a pair of men who would just as soon wring
his neck and throw him into a well as look at him. His highest ambition really was to be promoted
to help them in one of those outrageous deeds that had made them the most famous Bravi of the
whole century, who had received pardons from popes and kings, from the Emperor Leopold, and
from the Venetian Republic itself, under which passports they travelled and lived where they
pleased, still untouched by the law.

'This is a delicate business,' observed Gambardella, for both had heard the gossip about Don
Alberto and Queen Christina.

'It will be the more amusing,' answered Trombin. 'When I reflect upon the primitive simplicity
of the business we undertook for Pignaver, and compare it with the plan we have now conceived
and shall certainly execute in a few days, I cannot but congratulate myself on the fertility
of my imagination, or, as I might say, upon the resemblance between my mind and that of the
novelist Boccaccio. But I feel the superiority of my lot over his in the fact that I am generally
the chief actor in my own stories.'

'The Queen will be useful,' said Gambardella.

'Bless her for an admirably amusing woman!' cried Trombin fervently. 'She has the mane of the
lion and the heart of the hare!'

'The mane happens to be a wig, my friend,' sneered the other.

'In more senses than one,' retorted Trombin, 'but the hare's heart is genuine. She was afraid
of poor Monaldeschi. You knew it, I knew it, and Luigi Santinelli knew it. She ordered us to
kill him because she believed he was selling her secrets to the Spanish, and was going to poison
her in their interests. She is always fancying that some one wants to poison her. Oh, yes,
my friend, a most diverting character, for she thinks of nothing but herself, and her Self
is a selfish, hysterical, cruel, cowardly woman!'[1]

'I detest her for that business at Fontainebleau,' answered Gambardella.

'Precisely. So do I, though she amuses me. To strangle a superfluous woman is sometimes unavoidable,
and there are occasions when it is wisdom to stab an unnecessary male in the back. But to put
an unarmed gentleman to the wall, so to say, in broad daylight and deliberately skewer him,
being three to one as we were that day, is a thing I shall decline to do again for all the
gold in India, Mexico, and Brazil!'

'Unless it be paid in cash,' suggested Gambardella.

'Cash,' answered Trombin enigmatically, 'is one of the forces of nature.'

[Footnote 1: For Trombin's view of Christina's character and Monaldeschi's murder, I am indebted
to the admirable and trustworthy work of Baron de Bildt, a distinguished Swedish diplomatist,
entitled Christine de Suède et le Cardinal Azzolino (Paris, 1899). The writer points out the
singular ignorance of the truth about Monaldeschi displayed by Browning and the elder Dumas.]

CHAPTER XVI

A week later fashionable Rome was gathered together at the Palazzo Riario to a feast of poetry
and music. Christina had just founded the Academy which survives to this day in that state
of mediocrity above which it has never risen in nearly two hundred and fifty years, for the
idea had suggested itself to her when she found how easy it was to attract starving talent
to a good dinner. 'Feed the hungry' is a good motto for those who aim at being patrons of the
fine arts, like the ex-Queen in Rome, or Pignaver in Venice; the only condition is that the
hungry shall be clever or witty starvelings who can pay for their dinners with their brains.
However, when men of talent cease to be hungry they generally become snobs, and will take the
fly of the season with as much voracity as any trout in May.

The literary and musical receptions at the Palazzo Riario took place in the portico that opened
upon the gardens in those days; for the whole palace was afterwards rebuilt by the Corsini,
and many parts of it were changed. Christina had been in Paris and had seen Louis Fourteenth
dance as Alcibiades in Benserade's ballet, a sight to rejoice the gods of Olympus, who must
certainly have laughed even louder at the bewigged King's mincing steps than they did at Vulcan's
limp; for with many gifts, the Sun-King possessed no more sense of humour than Don Quixote,
who stood on his head before Sancho as a proof that love was driving him mad. The ex-Queen
was already dreaming of a wonderful pastoral play, in which Don Alberto Altieri was to appear
as Endymion, and she herself, the elderly and slightly bedraggled virgin queen, would play
Diana. There was Guidi to write the verses, Stradella should compose the music, and Christina
herself would get most of the credit for the work.

In the meantime, though she had nothing so complete to offer, she invited the Romans to hear
such poetry as she could provide, and some excellent music; and Bernini, who could make anything
look like anything else by means of whitewashed wooden columns, coarse draperies stiffened
and whitened with wet plaster, and caryatides modelled in plaster and pasteboard, had improvised
a Temple of Art for the performance. In the midst of this sanctuary, amongst laurels and roses,
he had placed the clay model of his bust of Christina herself, in a wig like the French King's.
He afterwards cast it in bronze, and considering that he must have done his best to make the
portrait pleasing, it is appalling to think what the original must have been.

The little temple stood just outside the portico, facing inward like a stage, on which the
performers appeared in turn, the audience being gathered under the portico. Beyond it, the
beautiful gardens stretched away in terraces and grades to the high distance. Christina herself
sat on a sort of throne, facing the clay image of herself, while her courtiers and satellites
were grouped behind her. Her intimate friend Cardinal Azzolino sat on her right, because Cardinal
Altieri, who should have been there, had not come, and half-a-dozen other cardinals in scarlet
occupied the huge gilt arm-chairs on both sides, each having one or two of his especial parasites
behind him in readiness to do his bidding or to laugh at his jokes, as the case might be. There
were not more than fifty other seats in the portico, and they were all occupied by the ladies
of Rome, who came to applaud the performances of their countrymen and to laugh at the hysterical
'Minerva of the North,' who paid the poets and musicians, and went into such convulsions of
appreciation when their works pleased her that the stability of her huge black wig was in danger.
The ladies' chairs were not close together, but scattered about, as in a drawing-room, and
almost every lady had her own little court of admirers or parasites according to her age and
looks. Many of the younger ones were standing, or strolling about, in the intervals of the
entertainment, each closely attended by one or two fine gentlemen; but as soon as a recitation
of verses began, or a piece of music, they all stood still where they were, and the hum of
voices instantly gave way to profound silence.

Ortensia was there too. She had come with her husband, and had been graciously received by
the Queen, who evidently knew nothing of Don Alberto's serenade; but Stradella had then left
her to join his musicians, for he was to direct a part of his new oratorio as well as sing
an air in it himself, and Ortensia necessarily stayed behind with the audience. Don Alberto
Altieri at once came forward to take care of her, and nine-tenths of the Roman ladies present
immediately asked of their attendant gentlemen who the handsome young woman in straw-coloured
silk might be, whose hair had 'quite the Venetian tinge,' and whom 'dear Don Alberto seemed
to know so well.' The result was that the occasion was Ortensia's first real appearance in
Roman society; and before her husband was ready to go home, she had made the acquaintance of
nearly all the great ladies present.

The young man was delighted to show off his power and popularity before her as he led her about,
being convinced that it could not fail to make an impression on her; for wherever he turned
he was met by smiling faces, and she was followed by eyes that envied the distinction conferred
upon her by the nephew of 'both the reigning Popes,' as the Romans called Pope Clement and
Cardinal Paluzzo Altieri. At the same time, the gossips were beginning to wonder what Queen
Christina-Minerva-Diana would say to her favourite's conduct if she saw anything of it, though
Don Alberto kept well behind her as he piloted Ortensia from one great lady to another.

Then, all at once, the two had disappeared unnoticed. A dark young girl with sad eyes and a
sensitive though slightly irregular mouth had just appeared on the stage, dressed as one of
the Muses; that is to say, she wore an ample garment of purple silk, of no particular shape,
but cut low at the throat and having wide sleeves which displayed a pair of rather nervous
white arms; her black hair was knotted low at the back of her neck, and she wore a wreath of
fresh bay laurel that was very becoming to her young face. She was one of those strangely talented
creatures, still found in Italy, and most often amongst the people, who have the gift of improvising
very creditable verses and music on any subject that is given them, or even upon a set of rhymes,
after concentrating their thoughts for a time which rarely exceeds two minutes, and is often
only a few seconds.

Don Alberto, who knew the programme of the entertainment, had manoeuvred skilfully. The girl
appeared on the stage, lute in hand, and began to approach the wet clay bust of Christina with
the mournfully inspired air of a Cassandra going up to the altar and image of Apollo; at the
same moment Don Alberto found himself with Ortensia before an open door on the left side of
the portico, a little farther back than the hindmost of the audience. Every one was watching
the stage.

'An "improvisatrice,"' the young man whispered quickly. 'Tiresome rubbish! I will show you
the statues while it is going on.'

Ortensia obeyed his gesture and passed through the door into a large hall where a quantity
of fragments of antique statues were lying on the stone floor, or were propped upright against
the walls, while half-a-dozen of the best were already set up on Corinthian capitals, or ancient
altars, which served as pedestals.

Don Alberto had quietly closed the door behind him when he followed Ortensia into the hall.
It was the first time he had succeeded in being alone with her since the night of the serenade.

'I trust you will accept my humblest excuses, dear lady,' he said as they both stood still,
'for having unwillingly broken off my little serenade the other night. I had intended it as
a welcome to you and your husband on the first night you spent under my roof, but I had not
thought of bringing a brace of cut-throats with me, as my rival did! They were too much for
me--I wish I knew his name!'

Don Alberto laughed pleasantly and looked at her, waiting for an answer. At the word 'cut-throats'
she made a slight movement of surprise, and was on the point of indignantly attacking him for
applying such a word to the friends who had brought about her marriage with Stradella; but
she checked herself, hardly knowing why.

'I was very tired that night, after moving to the palace,' she said calmly. 'My husband spoke
of a noise in the street, but I must have been more than half asleep.'

But Altieri had seen her start and did not believe a word of what she said. He was partially
satisfied, however, since she chose to take no notice of a scandalous affray which might easily
have reflected on her own good name. He laughed again.

'As it was such a miserable failure, I am glad you were not awake to hear it,' he said. 'It
was intended as a welcome, as an expression of my profound and devoted admiration, in which
I hope you will believe now, though you were asleep that evening!'

'Your admiration is exaggerated, sir,' Ortensia answered with a light laugh, 'but if, by devotion,
you mean friendliness to my husband and myself, I accept it for him and for me with all my heart!'

'I am grateful to your ladyship,' said Don Alberto in the same jesting tone, 'but, with your
leave, I distinguish, as they taught me to say in the schools when I was nearly entrapped into
a fallacy by a clever antagonist!'

'But I am neither your antagonist nor clever,' objected Ortensia, fencing gaily; 'therefore
you need not make any fine distinctions!'

The young man changed his manner and tone with really dramatic effect; his face grew suddenly
grave, his voice was sad, and he gazed into Ortensia's eyes with a wistful lover-like expression
that women rarely resisted.

'You are unkind,' he said. 'You know what such words mean to me, and you say them willingly,
meaning to hurt me--as you do!'

It was so well done that Ortensia was deceived, as well she might be, seeing how young she
was, though years counted not then as they do with us, and every girl of fourteen was taught
to be on her defence against men of every age and station.

'I did not mean to be unkind,' Ortensia said incautiously.

'Then pity me!' he cried with a sudden burst of real or affected passion. 'Are you blind, or
are you cruel? Or are you only heartless? I do not believe that you were not at the window
the other night! Your lips say one thing, your eyes another! You were looking down, you saw
me wounded by that villain, and you listened to his master's serenade till I came back with
the watch, only to be defeated a second time by a brace of hired fencing-masters! No! It was
not out of friendship for your husband, I confess it frankly, it was for love of you, it was
because you have turned my blood to fire and my heart to flame----'

'Hush!' Ortensia laid one hand warningly upon his arm, and at the same time she drew herself
up with great dignity, and her face was proud and cold. 'I give no man the right to speak of
love to me----'

'Wait!' interrupted Altieri. 'Wait, forgive, pity if you can, but hear me out! Far be it from
me to slight your honour, soul of my soul, heart of my body!--for my own is gone, and you are
in its place, and without you I should surely die! No--do not fear me! See, I stand back from
you, you cannot even reach me with your hand as you did just now. But I must speak, and you
shall hear me. I know your story, for the Venetian Ambassador has told all Rome how you lived
in your uncle's house in miserable slavery, and how he meant to force you to be his wife, and
that rather than submit to such an outrage you ran away with your music-master--we all know
the truth about it, from the Pope, and my uncle the Cardinal, and the Queen, to the little
page who carries Princess Colonna's train at a papal audience! There is nothing more romantic
and adventurous in all the tales of Boccaccio and Bandello, and whatever the Senator Pignaver
may attempt by way of revenge you may be sure that Rome will protect you. But now that you
are free, now that the world lies before you and at your feet, will you not choose a man worthy
of your birth and name?'

'A lover, sir?' asked Ortensia indignantly.

She had slowly moved backwards while he was speaking, till she leaned against the pedestal
of a colossal bust of Juno.

'Heaven forbid!' said Don Alberto. 'I mean a husband----'

'You seem to forget that I am married,' Ortensia replied, with rising anger.

'I would quarrel with any man who dared suggest that you do not believe it,' said Don Alberto
gravely.

'What do you mean?' She started, and a quick flush rose to her cheeks, but subsided instantly,
leaving her pale.

'It takes more than a mere sacristan's trick to make a real marriage,' answered Don Alberto
enigmatically. 'Do not be indignant, dearest lady! Let me speak. You were married in the sacristy
of San Domenico at Ferrara. Do not be surprised that I know it. The Legate there, Monsignor
Pelagetti, is afraid of getting into trouble for having imprisoned Stradella by mistake, and
he has sent my uncle a full and precise account of all that happened. The Mother Superior of
the Ursulines informed him of what had been done in the sacristy. Her intention was good, no
doubt, but it is very uncertain whether the result is valid!'

'And why should it not be?' Ortensia was very angry. 'There were honourable witnesses, too!
What can any one say against my marriage?'

'One thing is that the witnesses were not as honourable as you thought them, my lady! The two
gentlemen who helped you have turned out to be two of the most famous Bravi in Italy----'

'Bravi?'

'Yes. Their pockets are full of pardons for the atrocious murders they have committed for money,
and they are as well known in Rome as Romulus and Remus! As for the woman who signed the register
after them, she is a runaway nun, whose mere presence as a witness would discredit any ceremony!'

'A runaway nun? Pina? What folly is this? She has been with me since I was seven years old!'

'And she is forty now! There was time for a great many things to happen to her before you knew
her. Has she not one thumb unlike the other? You see, I am well informed, for the Cardinal
knows everything; and if he says that your marriage is not valid, you may be sure that he is
not speaking carelessly or without full information.'

Ortensia was now very pale, and her breath came quickly as she leaned against the pedestal
of the Juno.

'It is not possible!' she cried, staring at Altieri in horror.

'It is more than possible that the priest may not have been a priest at all,' he answered,
'and that the whole scene was cleverly prepared to trick you. But the rest I know beyond a
doubt and can prove. Your two friends are well-known Bravi and are at present lodging at the
Orso inn, where you were, and your serving-woman is Filippina Landi, who escaped from a convent
in Lombardy with a young Venetian and was abandoned by him. She was arrested in Ferrara some
nineteen or twenty years ago and confessed the truth under torture, but was soon afterwards
pardoned by the intervention of your uncle, the Senator Pignaver.'

'My uncle?' Ortensia almost forgot her new anxiety in her surprise.

'Yes, dear lady. Your uncle was, in fact, the young Venetian who had carried her off out of
the convent, promising to marry her! It was no doubt in order to be revenged on him that she
helped you to run away.'

Ortensia's hand strained upon the corner of the pedestal till Altieri could count the small
blue veins and purple arteries that showed through the white skin. She was terrified by what
he had told her, for it explained Pina's whole manner and conduct too well not to make what
Altieri had said about the marriage seem vaguely possible. But if she had been deceived, so
had Stradella; of that she was more sure than of anything else, and if it had been possible
she would have gone to him instantly to tell him what she had heard.

Altieri saw how much disturbed she was and came towards her, for they were now half-a-dozen
steps apart. He meant, no doubt, to offer her some consolation in her new trouble, unless he
was going to fall on his knees and implore her pardon for having caused her such uneasiness.
As a professional love-maker either course was open to him. But Ortensia stopped him with a
gesture, keeping down her emotion.

'Listen,' she said, 'for I have something to say. You meant to shake my faith in my husband,
but you have made a mistake, and instead you have done us both a great service. If, as you
pretend, we are not validly married, nothing can be easier than to obtain a proper marriage
in Rome, and we shall do so at once; but as for the rest, you are profoundly mistaken about
me. I left my uncle's house because I loved Alessandro Stradella, and for no other reason,
and while we both live we shall love each other as dearly as we did from the first, and I pray
heaven that our lives may end together, on the same day and in the same hour. Do you understand?
As you have seemed a friend to us both, be one in earnest, for you are wasting your time in
playing at being in love with me!'

She smiled at the last, as cleverly as any skilful woman of thirty could have done, offering
him the chance of laughing away the barrier his ill-considered declaration had made, and of
taking up pleasant relations again, as if nothing had happened to disturb them; for she had
regained her self-possession while she was speaking, and had determined to profit by what he
had told her rather than to suffer by the facts he had revealed, if they proved to be true.

He was quick to accept the means of reconciliation, whatever his own intentions really were.

'I will indeed be your friend,' he said, with amazing earnestness, 'since you give me no hope
of ever being anything more, and are willing to forgive the madness of a moment. Henceforth,
command me what you will! In pledge of pardon, may I have your hand?'

She let him take it; he dropped on one knee as he touched her fingers with his lips, and then
rose lightly to his feet again.

'Now let us go back,' she said, 'for we have been too long away.'

He led her out of the hall by another door and she found herself quite in the farthest recess
of the portico and behind all the assembled company, just as the dark-haired Muse was finishing
her last improvisation in an attitude of inspired wonder before the hideous bust of the Queen.
At the last line of her sonnet she took the laurels from her head, and with a graceful movement
that showed her nervous but well-shaped white arms to great advantage she placed the wreath
upon the damp clay effigy of the great Christina's portentous wig; then, cleverly kicking the
train of her long purple silk robe out of the way behind her, she backed towards the side exit,
stretching out her hands and bending her body while still keeping her upturned eyes on the
bust with an air of rapt adoration, like a Suppliant on an Etruscan vase.

Every one applauded enthusiastically, knowing that applause was expected in payment for having
been invited to such a feast of the soul; but the wise Muse paid no attention to the sounds.
To the last her gaze was on the bust, even when she lifted the dark velvet curtain with one
hand and backed out with a sweeping courtesy that looked very well.

A good-looking young man of the people, dressed in his best Sunday clothes, was waiting for
her at the head of the wooden steps. As she met his glance, she jerked her thumb backwards
over her shoulder towards the stage and the Queen.

'May an apoplexy seize her,' whispered the Muse, with a strong Trastevere accent, 'her, and
her friends, and all the family! You shall take me to supper on Monte Mario to-night! There
we shall breathe! Bring the guitar, too. Old Nena is waiting to help me dress. No--no, I say--not
here!'

For the handsome young fellow had caught her just as she was beginning to descend the steps,
and he planted a very substantial kiss on the nape of her neck before he let her go; which
was no great harm after all, since they were to be married in a fortnight or so, before the
Feast of Saint John.

It was Stradella's turn after the Muse had disappeared, and while the improvisatrice was going
down from the stage on one side, four liveried footmen were bringing up chairs on the other,
with music-desks for the little orchestra, which immediately made its appearance. There were
not more than a dozen musicians in all, and they ranged themselves in an orderly manner on
each side of the laurel-crowned bust, in the order of the pitch of their instruments, the violins
and flutes being in the middle, while the bass viol was at the extreme left, and the bass cornopean
on the right. Next came a small chorus of eight singers, who took their places, standing behind
the seated musicians; and last of all, amidst much clapping of hands, Stradella himself appeared
in front, and bowed low to the Queen, standing a little on one side so as not to hide the bust
from the audience.

He looked very handsome as he stood there, dressed in black velvet and black silk, with a low
collar of soft linen that showed his strong white throat, and having his lawn wristbands turned
back over the cuffs of his coat.

As he bowed Queen Christina smiled graciously, and waved her hand to him in greeting, whereupon
the applause became still louder.

Don Alberto had found a seat for Ortensia, and stood beside her, as the other cavaliers stood
each beside the lady of his choice. Altieri thought it good policy to pose himself as Ortensia's
official adorer from the first, at such a very select gathering of Roman society; for few would
care to try their chances against him after that. Ortensia herself was dimly conscious that
if she could keep him in his place, as she had done to-day, his admiration would protect her
against other would-be worshippers.

While the music lasted she never took her eyes from Stradella, whether he was turned from the
audience towards his musicians to direct them, beating time in the air with a thin roll of
ruled music-paper, or when he faced the audience and sung himself, to the accompaniment of
only four stringed instruments.

'Admirable!' whispered Alberto, bending low to Ortensia's ear. 'It is supreme genius, nothing
less!' he whispered again, as she took no notice.

But Ortensia did not even hear him, and sat quite still in her chair, gazing with fixed eyes
at the man she loved, and listening to his music as in the entrancement of a spell. Don Alberto
looked down thoughtfully at her beautiful motionless head, though his ears were open too, for
he loved music; but just then he was even more in love with the beautiful Venetian, and though
he had been worsted in his first attempt, he was by no means ready to give up the siege. He
was wondering what treasure could be found in all Rome that could induce Ortensia to take her
eyes from her husband while he was singing or conducting his own music.

But when it was finished and the applause had died away, and he had bowed and left the little
stage, she could not wait a moment.

'Take me to him,' she said to Don Alberto, rising from her seat.

'He will come here himself in a few minutes,' objected Altieri.

'Take me to him,' she repeated more imperiously. 'If you will not, I shall go alone.'

There was nothing for it but to obey, and Don Alberto led her quickly out of the portico to
the carriage entrance at the back, then through a vaulted passage, and up a flight of half-a-dozen
steps to the room to which the performers retired, and which had another exit towards the garden
and the back of the stage.

When Don Alberto opened the door Stradella was just within, evidently about to come away, and
he started in surprise when he saw his wife enter. The other musicians were standing in groups
of three and four, with their instruments in their hands, for the place was completely bare
of furniture; there was not so much as a table on which to lay a fiddle or a flute, but across
one corner a piece of tattered canvas had been hung to cut off a dressing-room for the improvisatrice,
who had already got into her own clothes and was gone away with old Nena and the handsome young
man.

Stradella met his wife with a happy smile and nodded a greeting to Don Alberto, who remained
in the door-way.

'Can you take me home at once?' Ortensia asked. 'Or must you go in?'

Stradella saw her look of distress as he took her outstretched hand in both of his.

'I am not wanted, am I?' he asked, looking at young Altieri. 'My wife wishes to go home, you
see----'

'I will make your excuses to the Queen,' Don Alberto answered readily. 'My carriage is waiting
and shall take you to the palace and come back for me.'

'How kind of you!'

Ortensia thought he was already beginning to fulfil his promise of friendship to her. He had,
in fact, brought the couple to the Palazzo Riario in his own carriage, for there were no hackney
coaches in Rome in that century, and people who owned no equipage were obliged to have themselves
carried in sedan-chairs, from one end of the city to the other if necessary, unless they preferred
to ride on mules or donkeys, which was not convenient in full dress.

In five minutes Stradella and his wife were driving rapidly over the cobble-stones towards
Ponte Sisto, and Ortensia was telling the astonished musician what had taken place between
her and Don Alberto, with all he had told her about Pina, Trombin, and Gambardella.

CHAPTER XVII

Two days after the affair at the Palazzo Riario, Don Alberto sauntered out of his palace gate
before the sun was high, and as he was merely going for a stroll to breathe the morning air
he was alone. As a matter of fact, the air smelt of cabbage, broccoli, and other green things,
for a hawker of vegetables had set down his three baskets at the corner of the Via del Gesù,
and was bawling his cry to the whole neighbourhood at the top of his lusty voice. There had
been a light shower before dawn, and the wet cobble-stones sent up a peculiar odour of their
own, which mingled with that of the green stuff. Don Alberto did not like it and turned to
his left, towards the Palazzo di Venezia, which was then the Venetian Embassy.

Where the street narrows between the Altieri palace and the church, a serving-man in grey overtook
him and spoke to him.

'Excellency,' the man said in an obsequious tone, his hat in his hand, 'I pray the favour of
a word.'

Don Alberto stopped in some surprise, for he had not noticed any one but the vegetable hawker
in the deserted square when he had left his own door a moment earlier.

'What do you want?' he asked suspiciously, and stopping to face the man.

It was Tommaso, the ex-highwayman who served the Bravi, and the expression of his eyes was
not reassuring.

'Your Excellency does not remember me,' he said. 'How should the Most Illustrious remember
a poor valet? I served the Bishop of Porto for seven years, and often accompanied him to the
palace here when he visited His Eminence Cardinal Altieri, who is now our Most Holy Father,
Pope Clement. Your Excellency was only a boy then, and once did me the honour to speak to me.'

'What did I say to you?' asked Don Alberto incredulously.

'I should not dare to repeat such a word,' answered Tommaso in a humble tone, 'but your Excellency
kicked me at the same time, and with great strength for one so very young, for I tumbled downstairs.'

Don Alberto's lips twitched with amusement.

'I believe I remember you by that, you scoundrel,' he said with a smile. 'And what do you want
of me now? Shall I give you another kick?'

'May that never be, Excellency! I can feel the first one still!'

Don Alberto laughed at the comically significant gesture that accompanied this speech, and
felt in his pocket for his purse.

'I suppose you want a paul to drink my health,' he said.

'That is too much for anything so common as a kick, Excellency, and too little if you will
accept my service.'

'I have servants enough,' answered Altieri, slipping his purse into his pocket again. 'But
since you think a paul is too much for one kick, I shall give you a florin's worth for nothing
at all if you pester me with any more nonsense. So now be off, and waste no time about it!'

Tommaso suddenly drew himself up and squared his broad shoulders, which made him look rather
formidable, for he was an uncommonly strong and active fellow.

'If you say the word,' he answered, dropping his obsequious manner, 'I will give Maestro Stradella's
wife into your hands within a fortnight.'

Don Alberto started visibly. His high-born instinct was not quite dead yet, and he slightly
moved his right hand as if he would lift the ebony stick he carried; but Tommaso had one of
cornel-wood and iron-shod, and he also made a very slight movement, and he was square and strong
and had a jaw like a bull-dog. Don Alberto's instinctive desire to knock him down disappeared
suddenly.

'And how do you propose to accomplish such an impossible feat?' asked the young noble with
some contempt.

'That is my affair,' answered Tommaso quietly. 'What will you give me when I have shut the
lady up safely and shall bring you the key of her prison? That is the only question, but please
remember that I must risk my neck, while you will only risk your money.'

'If you think I will give you any money in hand for such a silly offer, you take me for a fool,'
retorted Don Alberto.

'I ask nothing in advance. How much will you give me in cash for the lady when I hand her over
to you? I am in earnest. Name your price.'

'What is yours?'

'A thousand gold florins and the Pope's pardon,' said Tommaso boldly. 'You could not buy her
like in Venice, if you had your pick of the latest cargo from Georgia!'

'You shall have the pardon and a thousand in gold,' Don Alberto answered, for he was much too
fine a gentleman to bargain with a cut-throat, especially as the money would come out of his
uncle's strong-box. 'I do not believe that you can do what you offer; but if you succeed, how
shall I hear from you?'

'On the Eve of Saint John you will find me waiting for you with two saddled mules behind the
Baptistery of the Lateran, when the bells ring the first hour of the night. Bring your money
and I will take you to the house and to the lady and leave you the key.'

'I would rather you should come here,' said Don Alberto, suspecting a trap.

'Bring a guard with you if you think I mean to rob you,' answered Tommaso. 'Bring a squadron
of cavalry, if you like! Besides, you know that there will be thousands of people about the
Lateran all night on Saint John's Eve, eating and drinking on the grass to keep the witches
out of their bodies for the rest of the year!'

'That is true,' Don Alberto answered. 'I will be there.'

'But if your Excellency should accidentally see me in the meantime,' continued Tommaso, 'your
Excellency had better not notice me, nor be seen to recognise me.'

He had resumed his obsequious tone, and was already bowing to take his leave.

'I have one thing to tell you,' said Altieri. 'If you fail, I will have you locked up in Tor
di Nona for prying into my affairs and making an infamous proposal to me, and it may be a long
time before you get out.'

'At the pleasure of your Most Illustrious Excellency! I shall not make the least resistance
if I fail.'

'You had better not,' returned Altieri, haughtily enough, as he turned away and left Tommaso
bowing to the ground.

'Your Most Illustrious Excellency's most humble and dutiful servant!' said the man.

Then he went off in the opposite direction, passed the Altieri palace, turned to his right,
and in due time reached the Sign of the Bear, where his masters lodged. He found them in Trombin's
room, sitting near the open window with their coats off, and eating fruit from a huge blue
and yellow majolica basket that stood between them on the end of the table. There were oranges,
ripe plums, and very dark red cherries in handsome profusion, and the serving-girl, who cherished
a secret but hopeless admiration for Gambardella, had brought a pretty bunch of violets in
a coarse Roman tumbler.

Both the Bravi were of opinion that a little fruit taken in the morning was cooling to the
blood in spring. Trombin had cut a hole in the top of an orange and was solemnly sucking it--a
process for which his small round mouth seemed to be expressly formed--and his pink cheeks
contracted and expanded like little bellows as he alternately drew in the sweet juice and took
breath. Gambardella could not have sucked an orange to save his life, because his long nose
was directly in the way; he ate cherries slowly, and looked like a large brown bird of prey
pecking at them with his beak.

'Come in,' he said between two pecks, as some one tapped at the entrance.

'I have seen him, sirs,' Tommaso said, after shutting the door behind him. 'It is a thousand
gold florins in cash, on the Eve of Saint John. I am to meet him behind the Baptistery of the
Lateran at the first hour of the night and take him to the house.'

'Well done!' said Gambardella.

Trombin nodded his approval, for he was still at work on his orange, and was well aware that
if the contact were broken for purposes of speech before the fruit was dry, the perfection
of the satisfaction would be seriously compromised.

'Tommaso,' Gambardella continued, 'I think you know Rome well. Are you aware that in the Via
di Santa Sabina there is a small house which is almost always uninhabited, except in the month
of October, when the owner goes there himself to see his wine made? Do you happen to remember
that house?'

'No, sir,' answered the ex-highwayman, whose admiration for his employers' wide knowledge increased
daily. 'But I can easily find it, for I know the road. It is a lonely place.'

'A very lonely place,' said Trombin, at last detaching himself from the shrivelled yellow shell
which was all that was left of the orange. 'It is so lonely that I may say there is never any
one there, and there is rarely any one within hearing after dark. No thief goes near that road
at night, Tommaso, because there is never any one to rob. Most people are fools, Tommaso, and
suppose that robbers lurk in lonely and unfrequented spots, where they could not possibly find
a purse to cut. Therefore, as we are no fools, Tommaso, but very intelligent persons, we feel
quite secure in such places. Do you fully understand my meaning, Tommaso?'

'I have practised a part of what you preach, sir,' answered Tommaso with a grin.

'No doubt. Very good, Tommaso. When you have found the house, go on some distance farther,
say a hundred steps or so, and you will see a door in the wall, which evidently gives access
to the vineyard. The door was painted red when I last saw it. Perhaps you will find it ajar,
but if not, knock two or three times with the head of your stick, not roughly or noisily, but
in a sober fashion; and then wait awhile, and if nobody comes, knock again. If you cannot get
in to-day, go back to-morrow and the next day. The best time is a little before noon, when
the man is not yet at dinner.'

'Or asleep,' suggested Tommaso.

'Precisely. When he lets you in, you will know him because he has a reddish beard that is turning
white on the left side. He cultivates the vineyard, and the owner takes half the produce; but
for a consideration the man lets the small house in the Via di Santa Sabina to persons who
are fond of vineyards and solitude. The only condition is that the shutters of the windows
looking on the road must not be opened, lest the owner should pass that way.'

'I understand, sir,' said Tommaso, grinning again. 'I dare say the man is deaf at night.'

'Only at night, Tommaso, but then completely so,' answered Trombin. 'You will say that a gentleman
of fortune desires the use of the little house for a week, with the keys, from the twenty-first
to the twenty-eighth of June.'

'At one Apostolic florin a day,' put in Gambardella.

'But you must on no account let him know our names,' said Trombin. 'You can give him two florins
in hand as earnest money----'

'One is quite enough,' interrupted Gambardella.

'Be guided by your judgment, Tommaso,' said Trombin, beginning to cut a hole in another orange.
'I take you to be a sensible and economical person, but we must not lose the use of the house
for the sake of a florin or two. For I dare say you have guessed what we need the house for.'

'Partly, sir, partly. No doubt I am to take the young gentleman there on the Eve of Saint John.'

'Yes, amongst other things, you will do that. But indeed, Tommaso, you yourself will be surprised
at the extraordinary number of things you will do on that evening, all to your great advantage.
It is not in my power to tell you everything now, my good fellow, because I am going to enjoy
this orange in my usual way, by means of suction. But you shall know all in good time, all
in good time, Tommaso!'

Therewith Trombin opened his round eyes to their fullest extent, clapped his lips to the aperture
he had cut in the peel, and grasping the fruit firmly with both hands, he began the long and
delicious process of extracting the juice.

'And as you will have to receive the thousand gold ducats from Don Alberto,' said Gambardella,
speaking to Tommaso, 'you will have a very substantial guarantee in hand. For though we shall
never be far from you on that evening, we shall not be able to hinder you from running away
and robbing us if you choose to do so.'

'What have I done to deserve such an insinuation?' asked the ex-highwayman indignantly, for
he felt that his honour was assailed.

'Nothing whatever,' answered the Bravo calmly, 'and I insinuated nothing that should shock
your sensibilities, my good man. The profession has two branches, to one of which we belong,
while you have followed the other. We take lives, you take purses, and you should not feel
any more hurt at my suggesting that you might take mine, than I should if you suggested that
I might cut your throat.'

'That is true, sir.'

Tommaso spoke almost humbly, for he felt that if it should occur to the Bravi to exercise their
'branch of the profession' upon him, he should have no more chance of life than a kitten amongst
bloodhounds. He was strong and active, no doubt, and could use most weapons fairly well, but
he had neither the endurance of his terrible masters, nor their supreme skill in fencing; as
for taking them unawares, they never rested without bolting their doors, and when they walked
abroad they never heard footsteps behind them without looking round, nor passed the corner
of a narrow street without drawing towards the middle of the road far enough to allow room
for sword-play. A poor fellow like Tommaso, who had spent his early years as valet to a churchman,
would make but a poor figure against such men in a fight; he was proud enough to be allowed
to help them, almost without a thought of profit, and their money would be as safe in his hands
as it would be in Chigi's bank.

He was ready to obey them blindly, too, which was what they wanted, for the plan they had at
last decided upon was a complicated one, and would certainly miscarry if anything went wrong
during the night in which it was to be carried out; on the other hand, they did not trust him
enough to tell him what they meant to do, though he had to trust to their promises that Ortensia
should be already a prisoner in the little house in Via di Santa Sabina when he should bring
Don Alberto to the door; and he knew that, if they failed, his only chance of safety would
lie in instant flight, before young Altieri could have him laid by the heels in prison. Neither
the money nor the papal safe-conduct would be forthcoming until the young noble had actually
seen Ortensia in the little house.

After the last words he had spoken, Tommaso quietly prepared to shave Gambardella, while Trombin
was finishing the second orange. He had brought hot water with him in a bright copper can,
and he now proceeded to tie a large towel round Gambardella's neck, after which he made a rich
lather of Spanish soap, which he conscientiously rubbed into the Bravo's hard brown cheeks
and sinewy throat; last of all, he stropped his razor with the air and flourish of an accomplished
barber and set to work.

Trombin finished his orange and looked on.

'Did you ever cut a man's throat while you were shaving him, Tommaso?' he asked idly.

'Only once, sir,' Tommaso answered quietly, and he turned Gambardella's head a little on one
side, in order to get below his jaw.

'Why did you do it?' inquired Trombin, dipping the tips of his large pink fingers into a bowl
of water and carefully rinsing his lips.

'It was to save my neck, sir. The man was one of the cleverest sbirri I ever had after me,
but he did not know me by sight. It was in the March of Ancona, at a small village near Fermo.
He had tracked me all the way from Modena, and he came to the inn on the evening of the third
day. He sent for the village barber before he had supper; but the barber was a friend of mine
and was hiding me, and he let me go in his place. I told the landlord of the inn that I was
the barber's new apprentice, and so I was admitted to shave the officer in his own room. You
see, sir, both our horses were worn out, but his was still far better than mine, so it was
safer that he should go no farther. That is the whole story, sir. I was over the frontier before
morning.'

Gambardella smiled while Tommaso went on shaving him, and Trombin laughed as if the jest were
very good.

'It was not strictly in your branch of the profession, Tommaso,' he said, 'but under the circumstances
you acted with great tact. Nevertheless, even in an extreme case, avoid shaving Don Alberto
in that manner, for there is no telling what the consequences might be if he were found with
his throat cut in the little house in Via di Santa Sabina!'

CHAPTER XVIII

Cucurullo had his own opinion of what he saw during those days, and he kept it to himself for
some time, though he and Pina talked together a good deal in the evenings over their late supper,
in the little room next to the kitchen. The woman had interested the hunchback from the first,
and when any one roused his interest he pondered much upon that person's character and ways,
and asked questions with considerable cunning. On the other hand, Pina, who was not given to
exhibiting much liking for any one, seemed to have taken a fancy to her fellow-servant--either
out of pity for his deformity or from natural sympathy. They treated each other with a good
deal of formality, however; Cucurullo, who was a Neapolitan, addressed her as Donna Pina, as
if she were a lady born, and she usually called him 'Sor Antonino,' as though he were at least
a clerk or a small shop-keeper.

'Tell me,' he said, one evening when they were eating the salad left over from their masters'
supper, 'what is your opinion of this young gentleman who admires our mistress?'

'What opinion can I have?' asked Pina, picking up a small leaf of lettuce on her two-pronged
iron fork; for she ate delicately, and her fine manners were Cucurullo's despair.

'This is a wicked world,' he sighed, rather enigmatically.

'If you mean also that Don Alberto is one of those who make it so, I am inclined to agree with
you,' Pina answered. 'I have seen other young gentlemen like him.'

'You have had great experience of high life, Donna Pina. That is the reason why I asked your
opinion. This young gentleman may be like others you have known, but besides that he is very
powerful in Rome, and can do what he likes with impunity. He is so much in love with our mistress
that he no longer understands, as we say in the South. He has lost his senses.'

'But he has his wits left,' observed Pina sharply.

'And he owes a grudge for that scratch in the arm,' added Cucurullo thoughtfully.

'He does not know who gave it to him.'

'Therefore he means the Lady Ortensia to pay him for it.'

'Yes,' Pina answered. 'That is just like a man. Because he was hurt in serenading a lady, it
must needs be her fault, and she must give satisfaction! First, he would like to carry her
off to some lonely castle he must have, somewhere in the mountains, and at the end of a week,
or a month, he would turn her out of doors and say it served her right because he had been
wounded under her window. Yes, Sor Antonino, you may well say that I have some experience of
high life!'

Cucurullo heard the bitter note that rang in the last words, and he partly understood, for
he had known her long enough to guess that she had a sad story of her own.

'We ought to watch the signs for the masters,' he said. 'They see nothing, hear nothing, and
think of nothing but each other. One of these days the young gentleman will lay a snare and
they will step into it like a pair of sparrows.'

'What can we do?' asked Pina in a dull voice. 'Whatever is fated will happen.'

'That is heresy, Donna Pina,' said Cucurullo gravely, for he was much shocked to hear a fellow-servant
express such a highly unorthodox sentiment. 'It is a heresy condemned by the Fathers of the
Church, and especially by Saint Thomas.'

'He never lived my life!' objected Pina with a sharp little laugh; and she poured out two fingers
of sour white wine and drank it.

'If the Maestro had thought as you do when I was thrown overboard, I should have drowned,'
said Cucurullo quietly.

'When did that happen?' asked Pina, interested at once.

'It was on a small vessel coming from Naples to Cività Vecchia, five years ago, after my mother
died,' said Cucurullo. 'I was coming to Rome because I hoped to get some clerk's work, having
had some little instruction, and the Maestro was one of the two or three passengers in the
cabin. He was hardly known then, being very young, and indeed he was running away from a Neapolitan
princess who was too much in love with him. Well, at first the captain was glad to have me
on board, and the crew made much of me, believing that the hunchback would bring them luck
and a quick passage. But we had not got as far as Gaeta when a storm came up and we were driven
out to sea. It grew worse and worse for two days and nights, and our sails were torn, and other
accidents happened, which I did not understand. Then the crew and the captain began to look
askance at me, and I heard them say among themselves that I was the wrong kind of hunchback
and had the Evil Eye; and just when it seemed as if the weather were moderating, and the sun
had shone out for half an hour, the clouds in the south-west got as black as ink, and one could
see the white foam driving towards us below them. Then, when the captain saw that there was
no time to be lost, he ordered the men to throw me overboard, saying that I was Jonah and Judas
Iscariot in one, and that nothing else could save the ship. They took me by my arms and feet
and swung me twice and then threw me clean over the side; but I had already shut my eyes and
was beginning to say the De profundis as well as I could. I had hardly finished the first versicle
when I struck the water, and I was indeed crying unto the Lord out of the depths, for I cannot
swim, and my end was clearly at hand.'

'How awful!' cried Pina in a low voice.

'I never was in greater danger,' said Cucurullo gravely, 'and my mouth was already full of
salt water. But I did not say then "whatever is fated will happen," Donna Pina, for I was anxious
to say the second versicle of the Psalm before I was drowned, and I tried what I could to keep
my head up long enough for that. Then, just as a big wave was breaking, I saw something flying
through the air, and as it was a dark thing I was afraid it was the devil coming for my soul,
because my mother, blessed soul, when she was dying, had recommended me to pay three Carlini
which she owed for milk, and I had wickedly forgotten it. But I have since paid it. However,
it was not the devil, but Maestro Stradella, who had thrown himself into the sea, as he was,
to save my life, only because he had spoken two or three times to me on the voyage. The ship
was not going on fast, but though one of the sailors threw him a rope he could not catch it,
for he was holding up my head and telling me not to be frightened, as well as he could amongst
the waves, and not to catch hold of him, for he would save me. Then the passengers and sailors
took a great board ten ells long that was on the deck, and served for landing, and they threw
it over; and somehow the Maestro got me to it and we climbed upon it, while the ship was getting
farther and farther away, and the black squall was coming nearer and nearer.'

'The master swims like a water-rat,' said Pina. 'I remember that night in Venice, when the
Signors of the Night were after him!'

'Ah, you should have seen him in the sea, God bless him!' answered Cucurullo. 'He had the strength
and the long wind of a dolphin. When the squall came upon us we held each other fast, sitting
astride of the plank, for it was a very heavy one, and did not sink with us. Then came the
rain. Lord, how it rained, Donna Pina! You have never seen rain like that!'

'I remember how it rained that night when the master climbed into our balcony! That was enough
for me!'

'Imagine ten times that, Donna Pina. The wind had blown the plank round, so that we got the
rain in our backs, but even then I had to keep my mouth shut to hinder the water from running
down my throat! And it must have lasted two hours, but the sea went down like magic in that
time, and there was only a long, smooth, swelling motion, and the wind came from another quarter
and carried us with it. That was how we were saved.'

'The ship came back and picked you up, I suppose?'

'After the squall we did not see the ship again, though the clouds rolled away and the sun
shone brightly. She went to the bottom of the sea, Donna Pina, and was never heard of again,
but we drifted for many hours, half dead with cold, and were washed upon the Roman shore.'

'And what was fated, happened,' said Pina with a smile. 'For if you had not been thrown overboard
you would have been drowned with the rest, Sor Antonino!'

Cucurullo smiled too, very quietly, and helped Pina to the last drumstick left over from a
cold chicken.

'Well, well, Donna Pina,' he said, 'that is your way of believing, I dare say, but I have told
you what happened to me; and now you will understand better why I should be glad to serve the
master with my life, if I might.'

'You are a good man,' said Pina in a thoughtful tone. 'If there were more like you, this would
not be such a bad world as it is. What you say about Don Alberto is true, and if I could see
any way of being useful in watching him I would do all I could. Are the two Venetian gentlemen
who helped us in Ferrara still in Rome? I do not know what they are, and sometimes I was afraid
of them, but they would be strong allies if they knew that our lady was in danger and if they
were willing to help us.'

'They are still in Rome, for I saw them only to-day, going into the Gesù. They must be very
devout gentlemen, for I often see them in churches, and their servant has been valet to a bishop,
and understands the ceremonials perfectly. It is a pleasure to talk with him. He can tell the
meaning of every vestment and of every change in a pontifical high mass, and I think he knows
half the Roman Breviary by heart, and all the Psalms!'

Pina was not so sure about the piety of the Bravi and their servant, and as she nibbled her
last bit of bread, she looked thoughtfully across the clothless deal table at the hunchback's
trusting and spiritual face. In the dramatic vicissitudes of her own youth she had not learned
to put her faith in men, nor in women either; and if there had ever been a gentle and affectionate
side to her strong nature, it had been trodden and tormented till it had died, leaving scarcely
a memory of itself behind.

As he sat on the kitchen chair, Cucurullo's head was not much above the edge of the table,
and she looked down at him, meeting his sad eyes as they gazed up to hers. She liked him, and
was glad that he did not know what was passing through her mind; for she foresaw trouble in
the near future, and was afraid for herself. In some way she might yet be made to pay for what
she had done in wreaking her vengeance on Pignaver. Cardinal Altieri might protect Stradella
and Ortensia if the Senator tried to have them murdered, but if he demanded that Pina, his
household servant, should be arrested and sent back to Venice to be punished for helping the
runaways, who would protect her? At the mere thought she often turned very pale and bent nearly
double, as if she felt bodily pain. For of all things, she feared that most. Sooner than suffer
it again she would betray Ortensia into Alberto Altieri's hands, as she had almost forced her
into Stradella's arms in order to be revenged on Pignaver himself.

'I have been thinking,' she said after a long pause. 'It would be well for you to go to those
Venetian gentlemen and beg them to help us, if they will. You need not say that I suggested
it, Sor Antonino.'

'Why should I speak of you at all, Donna Pina?' asked the hunchback, a little surprised.

'Exactly! There is no need of it, and you are very tactful. You will find out if they suspect
anything, for after the affair of the serenade I am sure that they must have watched Don Alberto
anxiously, to be sure that he had not found out who wounded him.'

'Perhaps I had better talk to Tommaso first. We are on very good terms, you know.'

'By all means, talk with him first.'

A distant handbell tinkled, and as Pina heard it through the open door she rose to her feet,
for it was Ortensia's means of calling her.

Cucurullo thought over the conversation and reasoned about it with himself most of the night,
and, so far as Pina was concerned, the more he reflected the farther he got from the truth.
For he was grateful because she was kind to him in their daily life, and he could not possibly
have believed that she was no more really attached to Ortensia than she was to the Queen of
Sweden, and was even now meditating a sudden flight from Rome, which should put her beyond
the reach of justice, if the law ever made search for her. In his heart he was sure that she
must be as devoted to her mistress as he was to Stradella, though it was true that Ortensia
had never saved her life. But Cucurullo saw good in every one, and thought it the most natural
thing in the world that a faithful servant should be ready to die for his master.

On the following day he lay in wait for Tommaso near the main entrance of the inn, where the
Via dell' Orso meets the Via di Monte Brianzo, which then bore the name of Santa Lucia.

It was long before the man appeared, and then he seemed to be in a great hurry, and did not
see Cucurullo till the latter overtook him and spoke to him, for the hunchback had long legs
and could walk quite as fast as any able-bodied young man.

'I have been waiting a long time in the hope of seeing you this morning,' he said.

'And now I am in such haste that I have no time to talk with you,' replied the other, going on.

'We can talk while we are walking,' suggested Cucurullo, keeping pace with him easily. 'How
are the masters, Tommaso? Quite well, I hope?'

'Oh, perfectly well, thank you,' answered Tommaso, increasing his speed. 'I am sorry that I
am in such a hurry, my friend, but it cannot be helped.'

'Do not mention it,' said Cucurullo, breathing quietly. 'I generally walk briskly myself.'
Thereupon he quickened his stride a little.

'You certainly walk surprisingly fast,' said the ex-highwayman, who now had to make an effort
himself in order to keep up with his companion.

The people in the street stared at the two in surprise, for they seemed to be walking for a
match, and it looked as if the hunchback were getting the better of it.

'I trust,' he said in a quiet undertone, 'that Count Trombin is in no apprehension owing to
his having wounded the Pope's nephew under our windows the other night?'

'Not at all,' answered the other. 'So you saw it, did you?'

'I saw it with satisfaction, for I was at the window, and I recognised the Count's voice at
once. What do you think, my friend? Will that young gentleman come serenading again?'

'How can I tell?' Tommaso was by this time a little short of breath.

'You might have heard your two gentlemen say something about it,' Cucurullo said. 'Am I walking
too fast for you? You said you were in a hurry, you know.'

'Yes,' Tommaso said, rather breathlessly. 'I was--that is--I am in--in a moderate hurry!'

'My reason for going with you is that I want your valuable advice,' Cucurullo went on, still
keeping up the tremendous pace without the least apparent difficulty.

'About what?' gasped the highwayman, ashamed to be beaten by a hunchback.

'Your gentlemen have already helped my master and mistress so much, that even without the Maestro's
knowledge I should like to ask their protection for his wife. That is, if you approve, my friend.
I want your advice, you see.'

'You will have to--to walk slower--if you--want to get it!'

Tommaso was by this time puffing like a porpoise, for he was not as young as when he had been
the terror of the Bologna road, and he had been living on the fat of his masters' plentiful
leavings for weeks, with a very liberal allowance of the white wine of Marino. Moreover, knowing
what he did of the Bravi's intentions, Cucurullo's suggestion seemed at once highly comic and
extremely valuable. But Cucurullo himself, good soul, was pleased at having forced Tommaso
to slacken his pace and listen to him.

'I come of my own intention, dear friend,' he said, 'because I am in constant anxiety about
the Lady Ortensia. For Don Alberto is nephew to both the Popes, as they say here, and it would
be an easy matter for him to carry her off into the country; the more so as she and my master
are living in his own palace, and it sometimes happens that the Maestro goes out alone to a
rehearsal of music, leaving only me and Pina to protect his lady, and what could we do if Don
Alberto came at such a time with a band of men and simply carried the lady downstairs to his
own coach and drove away with her?'

'My dear friend,' answered the other, who had now recovered his breath, 'I do not know what
you could do. Am I a prophet, that you ask me riddles? The book of wisdom is buried under the
statue of Pasquin, as these Romans say! If such a thing happened to me, I should consider the
safety of my own skin, which is worth more to me than many other skins, even than the skins
of lions for which His Holiness pays a great price, they tell me, when travellers bring them
from Africa! For you might as well resist the Tiber in a flood, as try to hinder the Pope's
favourite nephew from doing what he likes! Not that the Pope, or even the Cardinal, knows what
he does; but he has a golden key to every door in Rome, a papal pass for every gate of the
city, and a roll of blank pardons, duly signed and sealed, for any misdeed his servants may
commit! What could you or I do against such a man?'

Having had his haste fairly run out of his legs, Tommaso was now inclined to be talkative,
though what he said led to no particular conclusion, except that it would not be safe to interfere
with Don Alberto's plans. The truth was that he saw magnificent possibilities for his masters
in Cucurullo's request for protection, and he had not the smallest intention of risking a mistake
by answering for them, still less of discouraging Cucurullo's hope that they would protect
Ortensia.

Cucurullo answered a little despondently.

'I know it,' he said. 'All you say is true. And yet when I remember how your gentlemen wounded
him and then drove the watch before them like sheep, and yet never so much as showed their
faces, I cannot help hoping that they will do something for us.'

'Hope by all means, my dear friend, for, as you say very well, my masters are no ordinary fine
gentlemen, made up of curls and lace collars, and paste buckles and satin, and drawing-room
small-swords of about the size and temper of a silver hairpin! Why, most of these young dandies
are no better than girls, and are not half such men as some priests I have known! Either of
my masters could skewer a round dozen of them while the bells are ringing for noon, and sit
down to dinner at the last stroke as cool as if I had just shaved them and smoothed their clean
collars over their coats! But after all, dearest Cucurullo, they are only two, and I might
bear them a hand with my cudgel, and we should be three--only three men against the whole army
of the Pope, horse, foot, and artillery, besides the Swiss Guard and the five or six hundred
sbirri in plain clothes whom the Cardinal maintains in the holy city! It would not be a fair
fight, my friend!'

Cucurullo smiled at Tommaso's voluble statement of the odds, for the hunchback was not without
a certain sense of humour.

'No doubt you are right,' he said, 'but if Don Alberto tried to carry off my master's lady,
he would avoid the publicity of an escort of three or four thousand men! Indeed, I doubt whether
he would take more than two or three of his servants with him, for whom you three would certainly
be a match.'

'A match!' cried Tommaso, suddenly indignant. 'We would make sausage meat of them! We would
mince them as fine as forcemeat in five minutes! Their bones would be nothing but a cloud of
dust before you could count ten! A match, indeed! My dearest friend, you do not know what you
are saying!'

'I do, but you have a greater command of language than I,' answered Cucurullo quietly. 'When
I said that you would be a match for them, I meant that you could destroy them in an instant.'

'I see,' said Tommaso, pacified. 'But if you think I can talk, you should hear Count Trombin!
Now listen, most worthy friend. If you desire it, I will speak with my masters for you; for
the truth is, they are two very noble cavaliers, and would ask nothing better than to help
a lady in distress, and I will meet you where you please, and tell you what they say. Or, if
you prefer to speak with them yourself, go back to the inn now, and you will find them upstairs
eating their morning dish of fruit. Do as you please, but perhaps I shall be able to speak
to them at a moment when they are particularly well disposed. When they have dined well, for
instance, they are always in a pleasant humour. They often give me a Giulio then.'

'You will do me the greatest service, my friend,' Cucurullo said. 'Pray speak for me with your
gentlemen, telling them that I came to you entirely on my own responsibility. That is important,
for I would not have them think that my master would approach them through his servant, which
would be beneath their dignity and unworthy of his good manners.'

'I shall be most careful,' answered Tommaso blandly. 'But listen to me again. If, for instance,
my gentlemen should desire to meet your gentleman and his lady in some quiet out-of-the-way
place, in order to talk over the circumstances at leisure, do you think there would be any
objection?'

'Why should there be?' asked Cucurullo in surprise. 'Are they not the best of friends?'

'Indeed they are!' replied the other with alacrity. 'I wish you could hear how my masters talk
of the Maestro Stradella's genius, and of his voice, and then of his noble air and manner,
and of the Lady Ortensia's beauty and modest deportment! It would do your heart good, most
estimable friend!'

'It is a pleasure even to hear you tell me of it,' Cucurullo answered, much delighted, for
he worshipped Stradella, and thought him perfection now that he was at last properly married,
and there was an end of his love-scrapes, and of carrying letters to his sweethearts, and of
silk ladders and all the rest of it.

'I have not told you half,' said Tommaso readily. 'And now, as I have an important errand,
and my gentlemen are waiting to be shaved, I shall say good-bye. Will it suit you to meet me
this afternoon about twenty-three o'clock, at the Montefiascone wine-cellar in the Via dei
Pastini? It is a quiet place, and there is a light white wine there which is cooling in this
warm weather.'

'I will be there,' Cucurullo answered with a friendly nod by way of taking leave.

Though they had slackened their pace to an ordinary walk that suited Tommaso's breathing powers,
they had covered a good deal of ground in the five or six minutes during which they had been
talking, and they were close to the Church of the Minerva, not far from the Altieri palace.
As it was quite clear that Tommaso wished to go on his errand alone, Cucurullo turned into
a narrow street when he left him, and walked slowly, picking his way over the uneven pavement.
It was an unsavoury lane, that ran between tall houses, from the windows of which everything
that was objectionable indoors was thrown out; and as His Eminence the Cardinal Vicar's sweepers
were only supposed to pass that way once a week, on Thursdays, and sometimes forgot about it,
the accumulations of dirt were pestiferous. Rome in those days was what all Naples was twenty
years ago, and still is, in parts; it was full of the most astounding extremes of splendour
and incredible poverty, of perfect cleanliness and abominable filth, and the contrast between
the stringency of the law and the laxity of its execution was often not less surprising. Under
the statutes, a man could be punished with torture and the galleys for owning a dark lantern,
for carrying a pointed knife in his pocket, or for wearing a sword without leave; but, as a
matter of fact, the detailed manuscript accounts of scores of crimes committed in Rome in the
seventeenth century, and later, show that almost every one went armed, that any one who could
dress like a gentleman wore a rapier when he pleased, and that dark lanterns were commonly
used in defiance of the watch, the sbirri in plain clothes, the Bargello who commanded both,
and the Governor who was his only superior in matters relating to public order.

I have digressed a little, both to explain the affair of the serenade under the Altieri palace,
and to prepare my readers for what followed, and especially for the lawless doings of Trombin,
Gambardella, and Don Alberto, which came to a climax during the night of Saint John's Eve,
in spite of the many admirable regulations about lanterns and weapons which should have made
the city a paradise of safety for unprotected females. But, after all, progress has not done
much for us since then, for the cities are always growing faster than the police possibly can,
so that it is in the very greatest capitals that the most daring crimes are committed with
apparent impunity in our own time.

Cucurullo picked his way through the dirty side street, and was just emerging into a broader
and cleaner one, when some one overtook him and tapped him on his hump, though he had not noticed
the sound of footsteps behind him. He stopped, and saw a man in dusty and shabby black clothes,
whom he took for a sbirro.

'Good-morning, Master Alessandro,' said the man with some politeness.

'That is my master's name,' answered Cucurullo, 'not mine, and he is not deformed. Therefore,
if you are jesting with me, I beg you to pass on in peace.'

'Your pardon, sir,' the man said, lifting his hat, 'have I not the honour of addressing Signor
Alessandro Guidi, the poet, for whom I have a message from Her Majesty the Queen of Sweden,
whose servant I am?'

'No,' replied the other, pacified at being taken for the misshapen bard. 'I am only a servant
like yourself, and my name is Cucurullo.'

The man seemed reassured and much amused, for he was a Piedmontese.

'Cuckoo-rulloo-cuckoo what?' he asked, laughing. 'I did not catch the rest!'

Cucurullo fixed his unwinking blue eyes on the speaker's face with a displeased expression,
and after a moment the man turned pale and began to tremble, for he saw that he had given grave
offence, and to rouse the anger of a hunchback, especially in the morning, might bring accident,
ruin, and perhaps sudden death before sunset. He shook all over, and the blue eyes never winked,
and seemed to grow more and more angry till they positively blazed with wrath, and, at last,
the fellow uttered a cry of abject fright and turned and ran up the dirty street at the top
of his speed. But Cucurullo went quietly on his way, smiling with a little satisfaction; for,
after all, it was something to command kindness and hospitality, or inspire mortal terror,
by the deformity that afflicted him. Possibly, too, in his humble heart he was pleased at having
been taken for such a social personage as a scholar and a man of letters; for he had always
been very careful to keep himself very clean and neat, and if he had any vanity it was that
no one could ever detect a spot on his clothes. For instance, he always carried with him a
little piece of brown cotton, folded like a handkerchief, which he spread upon the pavement
in church before he knelt down, lest the knees of his breeches should be soiled, and he treasured
a pair of old goatskin gloves which he had bought at a pawnshop in Venice, and which he put
on when he cleaned his master's boots or did any other dirty work.

After he had parted from Tommaso, the latter went about his business, though not in breathless
haste. His errand, as he had called it, took him amongst the dealers in coaches, new and second-hand,
who had their warehouses near the Massimo palace and in the neighbourhood of Saint Mark's,
and in other regions near by, from which the public conveyances started and where private carriages
could be bought or hired.

The Bravi, who were practical men, judged that a former highway robber should be a good judge
of such vehicles, and had commissioned Tommaso, who had stopped and plundered hundreds of them
on the Bologna road, to find one that would suit their purpose. It was to be perfectly sound,
not large, comfortably cushioned and provided with solid shutters to draw up outside the windows.
There were to be good locks to the doors, with keyholes inside and out, and a boot for luggage,
also provided with a safe fastening. It was no easy matter to find exactly what the Bravi wanted,
without paying a high price for a perfectly new carriage, and it was a prime necessity that
the one Tommaso was to buy for them should be able to stand a rather unusual journey without
once breaking down.

They also needed good horses of their own, for there were several reasons why they could not
hire a team from the post for the start, and they meant to trust to luck for exchanging or
selling theirs at the end of the first stage. Tommaso was a capital judge of horseflesh, as
they had found out on the journey from Venice, and they confidently left the whole matter in
his hands while they occupied themselves with graver affairs, or sought relaxation in the pleasures
which the city afforded.

CHAPTER XIX

Ortensia had told her husband everything that had passed between her and Don Alberto, and Stradella's
first instinct was to seek him out, insult him, and force him into a duel. Ortensia saw the
big vein swelling ominously in the middle of the white forehead, the tightening of the lips,
and the unconscious movement of the fingers that closed upon an imaginary sword-hilt; she saw
all this and was pleased, as every woman is when the man she loves is roused and wants to fight
for her. But Ortensia did not mean that there should be any bloodshed, and she soothed her
husband and made him promise that he would only watch over her more jealously than ever, and
make it impossible for Don Alberto ever to be left alone with her again. If he would promise
that, she said, she should feel quite safe.

He promised reluctantly, but said that he would not stay under Altieri's roof another day;
he would not owe such an obligation to a man who had attacked his honour, he would not tolerate
the thought that his wife was actually dwelling in the house of the wretch against whom she
asked his protection. But Ortensia besought him to do nothing hurriedly, lest he should cause
a scandal which would do more harm to her good name than Don Alberto's foolish declarations,
which could be kept a secret.

Stradella yielded to her entreaties at first, for he saw that there was some sense in what
she said; but his pride could not bear such a situation long, and with every day that passed
he became more anxious to leave the palace. He began to look about for lodgings when he went
out alone in the morning, and he saw more than one that would have suited him; but none of
them would be free until the Feast of Saint John, which was then the quarter-day in Rome, on
which leases began and expired. He wanted a dwelling with a hall large enough for rehearsing
with his orchestra, and having a loggia looking towards the south, like the one at the Orso inn.

And now it happened, on that same morning when Cucurullo went to find Tommaso, that Stradella
himself had gone out to see another house of which he had heard; and Don Alberto, who was well
informed of the movements of the little household, judged the moment favourable for visiting
Ortensia, since he had observed that Stradella was usually away at least an hour, and often
much longer, when he went out early; and if Cucurullo should return sooner, it would not matter.

Ten minutes after the hunchback had left the palace Don Alberto knocked at the door of the
small apartment halfway down the grand staircase. Pina opened almost immediately, not suspecting
anything, but started in surprise when she saw who the visitor was.

'I desire to speak with the Lady Ortensia,' said Don Alberto suavely.

'The master is gone out,' Pina answered, 'and my mistress would never receive a gentleman's
visit alone, sir.'

'The matter is urgent and concerns the Maestro,' Don Alberto explained, and at the same time
he made the gold pieces in his pocket jingle, as if quite accidentally. 

"Hetty, she just stands there, just as easy, and hollers back that Cronney has bought a gramophone
and how they sets by it day and night listening, and how it's son
and daughter to 'em.

Then she calls up to Mabel Tuttle, 'I should think you'd be afraid of meddlin' with them ottermobiles,
your time of life.'"

Mr. Tinneray choked over his own rendition of this audacity, but his
wife sniffed hopelessly.

"They ain't got no gramophone--her, with that face and hat?--Cronney
don't make nothing; they two could live on what that Blue Silk Quilt
feeds that stinkin' parrot."

But Mr. Tinneray chuckled again, he seemed to be possessed with the humor of some delightful
secret. Looking carefully around him and seeing every one absorbed in other things he leaned closer
to his wife.

"She's liable to lose that bird," he whispered.

"Them young fellers with the canes--they're full of their devilment--well, they wanted I shouldn't
say nothing and I ain't sayin' nothing--only--"

Fat Mr. Tinneray, pale eyes rolling in merriment, pointed to the camp-stool
where once the parrot's cage had rested and where now no parrot-cage
was to be seen.

"As fur as I can see," he nudged his wife again, "that bird's liable to get left ashore."

For a moment Mrs. Tinneray received this news stolidly, then a look of comprehension flashed over
her face. "What you talkin' about, Henry?" she demanded. "Say, ain't you never got grown up?
Where's Manda Bean?"

Having located Mrs. Bean, the two ladies indulged in a rapid whispered conversation. Upon certain
revelations made by Mrs. Bean, Mrs. Tinneray turned and laid commands upon her husband.

"Look here," she said, "that what you told me is true--them young fellers--" she fixed Mr.
Tinneray with blue-glassed significant eyes, adding sotto voce, "You keep Mabel Tuttle busy."

Fat
Mr. Tinneray, chuckling anew, withdrew to the after-rail where the azure lady still stood, chained
as it were in a sort of stupor induced by the incisive thrusts of the forlorn little woman on
the wharf. He joined in the conversation.

"So yer got a gramophone, hey," he called down kindly--"Say, that's nice, ain't it?--that's company fer
you and Cronney." He appealed to Mrs. Tuttle in her supposed part of interested relative. "Keeps
'em from gettin' lonesome and all," he explained.

That lady looking a pointed unbelief, could not, with the other excursionists watching, but
follow his lead.

"Why--er--ye-ess, that's rill nice," she agreed, with all the patronage of the wealthy relative.

Little
Mrs. Cronney's eyes glittered.

The steamboat hands had begun lifting the hawsers from the wharf piles and her time was short.
She was not going to be pitied by the opulent persons on the excursion.

Getting as it were into her stride, she took a bolder line of imagery.

"And the telephone," looking up at Mr. Tinneray. "I got friends in Quahawg Junction and Russell
Center--we're talkin' sometimes till nine o'clock at night. I can pick up jelly receipts and
dress-patterns just so easy."

But Mrs. Tuttle now looked open incredulity.

She turned to such excursionists as stood by and registered emphatic
denial.

"Uh-huh?" she called down in apparent acceptance of these lurid statements, at the same time remarking
baldly to Mr. Tinneray, who had placed himself at her side,

"She ain't got no telephone!"

At this moment something seemed to occur to little Mrs. Cronney.

As she gave a parting defiant scrutiny to her opulent sister her black eyes snapped in hollow
reminiscence and she called out,

"Say--how's your parrot? How's your beau--Ro-me-o?"

At this, understood to be a parting shot, the crowd strung along the
rail of the Fall of Rome burst into an appreciative titter.

Mrs. Tuttle, reddening, made no answer, but Mr. Tinneray, standing by and knowing what he knew,
seized this opportunity to call down vociferously,

"Oh--he's good, Romeo is. But your sister's had him to the excursion and he's got just a little
seasick comin' over. Mis' Tuttle, yer sister, is going to leave him with you, till she can come
and take him home, by land, ye know, in her ottermobile--she's coming to get you too, fer
a visit, ye know."

There was an effect almost as of panic on the Fall of Rome. Not only did the big whistle for
"all aboard" blow, but some one's new hat went overboard and while every one crowded to one side
to see it rescued, it was not discovered that Romeo's cage had disappeared! In the confusion
of a band of desperadoes composed of the entire group of cynical young men with ivory-headed
canes, seized upon an object covered with something like an altar-cloth
and ran down the gangplank with it.

Going in a body to little Mrs. Cronney, these young men deposited a glittering burden, the gold
parrot-cage with the green bird sitting within, in her surprised and gratified embrace. Like
flashes these agile young men jumped back upon the deck of the Fall of Rome just before the
space between wharf and deck became too wide to jump. Meanwhile on the upper deck, before the
petrified Mrs. Tuttle could open her mouth, Mr. Tinneray shouted instructions,

"Your sister wants you should keep him," he roared, "till she comes over to see you in her
ottermobile--to--fetch--him--and--git--you--for--a--visit!"

Suddenly the entire crowd of excursionists on the after-deck of the Fall of Rome gave a rousing
cheer. The gratified young men with the ivory-headed canes suddenly saw themselves of the age
of chivalry and burst into ragtime rapture; the excursion, a mass of waving flags and hats and
automobile veils, made enthusiastic adieu to one faded little figure on the wharf, who proud
and happy gently waved back a gleaming parrot's cage!

It was Mr. Tinneray, dexterous in all such matters, that caught at a drooping cerulean form as it
toppled over.

"I know'd she'd faint," the pale-eyed gentleman chuckled.

He manfully held his burden until Mrs. Tinneray and Mrs. Bean relieved him. These ladies, practised
in all smelling-bottle and cologne soothings, supplied also verbal comfort.

"Them young fellows," they explained to Mrs. Tuttle, "is full of their
devilment and you can't never tell what they'll do next.

But ain't it lucky, Mis' Tuttle, that it's your own sister has charge of that bird?"

When at last a pale and interesting lady in blue appeared feebly on deck, wiping away recurrent
tears, she was received with the most perfect sympathy tempered with
congratulations.

There may have been a few winks and one or two nods of understanding which she did not see, but Mrs.
Tuttle herself was petted and soothed like a queen of the realm, only, to her mind was brought
a something of obligation--the eternal obligation of those who greatly
possess--for every excursionist said,

"My, yes!

No need to worry--your sister will take care of that bird like he was one of her own, and
then you can go over in yer ottermobile to git him--and when you fetch him you can take her
home with yer--fer a visit."

ONNIE[3]

[Note 3: Copyright, 1917, by The Century Company. Copyright, 1918, by Thomas Beer.]

BY THOMAS BEER

From The Century Magazine

Mrs. Rawling ordered Sanford to take a bath, and with the clear vision
of seven years Sanford noted that no distinct place for this process
had been recommended.

So he retired to a sun-warmed tub of rain-water behind the stables,
and sat comfortably armpit deep therein, whirring a rattle lately
worn by a snake, and presented to him by one of the Varian tribe,
sons of his father's foreman.

Soaking happily, Sanford admired his mother's garden, spread up along the slope toward the thick
cedar forest, and thought of the mountain strawberries ripening in this hot Pennsylvania June.
His infant brother Peter yelled viciously in the big gray-stone house, and the great sawmill snarled
half a mile away, while he waited patiently for the soapless water
to remove all plantain stains from his brown legs, the cause of this
immersion.

A shadow came between him and the sun, and Sanford abandoned the rattles to behold a monstrous
female, unknown, white-skinned, moving on majestic feet to his seclusion.

He sat deeper in the tub, but she seemed unabashed, and stood with a red hand on each hip, a
grin rippling the length of her mouth.

"Herself says you'll be comin' to herself now, if it's you that's Master San," she said.

Sanford speculated. He knew that all things have an office in this world, and tried to locate
this preposterous, lofty creature while she beamed upon him.

"I'm San. Are you the new cook?" he asked.

"I am the same," she admitted.

"Are you a good cook?" he continued. "Aggie wasn't. She drank."

"God be above us all! And whatever did herself do with a cook that
drank in this place?"

"I don't know. Aggie got married. Cooks do," said Sanford, much entertained by this person. Her
deep voice was soft, emerging from the largest, reddest mouth he had ever seen. The size of
her feet made him dubious as to her humanity. "Anyhow," he went on, "tell mother I'm not clean
yet. What's your name?"

"Onnie," said the new cook. "An' would this be the garden?"

"Silly, what did you think?"

"I'm a stranger in this place, Master San, an' I know not which is why nor forever after."

Sanford's
brain refused this statement entirely, and he blinked.

"I guess you're Irish," he meditated.

"I am. Do you be gettin' out of your tub now, an' Onnie'll dry you," she offered.

"I can't," he said firmly; "you're a lady."

"A lady? Blessed Mary save us from sin! A lady? Myself?

I'm no such thing in this world at all; I'm just Onnie Killelia."

She appeared quite horrified, and Sanford was astonished. She seemed to be a woman, for all
her height and the extent of her hands.

"Are you sure?" he asked.

"As I am a Christian woman," said Onnie. "I never was a lady, nor could I ever be such a thing."

"Well,"
said Sanford, "I don't know, but I suppose you can dry me."

He climbed out of his tub, and this novel being paid kind attention
to his directions.

He began to like her, especially as her hair was of a singular, silky
blackness, suggesting dark mulberries, delightful to the touch.

He allowed her to kiss him and to carry him, clothed, back to the house on her shoulders,
which were as hard as a cedar trunk, but covered with green cloth sprinkled with purple dots.

"And
herself's in the libr'y drinkin' tea," said his vehicle, depositing him on the veranda. "An'
what might that be you'd be holdin'?"

"Just a rattle off a snake."

She examined the six-tiered, smoky rattle with a positive light in her dull, black eyes and crossed
herself.

"A queer country, where they do be bellin' the snakes! I heard the like in the gover'ment school
before I did come over the west water, but I misbelieved the same. God's ways is strange, as the
priests will be sayin'."

"You can have it," said Sanford, and ran off to inquire of his mother
the difference between women and ladies.

Rawling, riding slowly, came up the driveway from the single lane of his village, and found the
gigantic girl sitting on the steps so absorbed in this sinister toy that she jumped with a little
yelp when he dismounted.

"What have you there?" he asked, using his most engaging smile.

"'Tis a snake's bell, your Honor, which Master San did be givin' me. 'Tis welcome indeed, as
I lost off my holy medal, bein' sick, forever on the steamship crossin' the west water."

"But--can you use a rattle for a holy medal?" said Rawling.

"The gifts of children are the blessin's of Mary's self," Onnie maintained. She squatted on the
gravel and hunted for one of the big hair-pins her jump had loosened, then used it to pierce
the topmost shell. Rawling leaned against his saddle, watching the huge hands, and Pat Sheehan,
the old coachman, chuckled, coming up for the tired horse.

"You'll be from the West," he said, "where they string sea-shells."

"I am, an' you'll be from Dublin, by the sound of your speakin'.

So was my father, who is now drowned forever, and with his wooden
leg," she added mournfully, finding a cord in some recess of her pocket,
entangled there with a rosary and a cluster of small fishhooks.

She patted the odd scapular into the cleft of her bosom and smiled
at Rawling.

"Them in the kitchen are tellin' me you'll be ownin' this whole country an' sixty miles of it, all
the trees an' hills. You'll be no less than a President's son, then, your Honor."

Pat led the horse off hastily, and Rawling explained that his lineage
was not so interesting.

The girl had arrived the night before, sent on by an Oil City agency,
and Mrs. Rawling had accepted the Amazon as manna-fall.

The lumber valley was ten miles above a tiny railroad station, and servants had to be tempted with
triple wages, were transient, or married an employee before a month could pass. The valley women
regarded Rawling as their patron, heir of his father, and as temporary aid gave feudal service
on demand; but for the six months of his family's residence each
year house servants must be kept at any price. He talked of his domain,
and the Irish girl nodded, the rattles whirring when she breathed,
muffled in her breast, as if a snake were crawling somewhere near.

"When
my father came here," he said, "there wasn't any railroad, and there
were still Indians in the woods."

"Red Indians? Would they all be
dead now? My brother Hyacinth is fair departed his mind readin' of
red Indians. Him is my twin."

"How many of you are there?"

"Twelve,
your Honor," said Onnie, "an' me the first to go off, bein' that I'm
not so pretty a man would be marryin' me that day or this. An' if
herself is content, I am pleased entirely."

"You're a good cook,"
said Rawling, honestly. "How old are you?"

He had been puzzling about
this; she was so wonderfully ugly that age was difficult to conjecture.
But she startled him.

"I'll be sixteen next Easter-time, your Honor."

"That's
very young to leave home," he sympathized.

"Who'd be doin' the like
of me any hurt? I'd trample the face off his head," she laughed.

"I
think you could. And now what do you think of my big son?"

The amazing
Onnie gurgled like a child, clasping her hands.

"Sure, Mary herself
bore the like among the Jew men, an' no one since that day, or will
forever. An' I must go to my cookin', or Master San will have no dinner
fit for him."

Rawling looked after her pink flannel petticoat, greatly
touched and pleased by this eulogy. Mrs. Rawling strolled out of the
hall and laughed at the narrative.

"She's appalling to look at, and
she frightens the other girls, but she's clean and teachable. If she
likes San, she may not marry one of the men--for a while."

"He'd
be a bold man. She's as big as Jim Varian. If we run short of hands,
I'll send her up to a cutting. Where's San?"

"In the kitchen. He
likes her. Heavens! if she'll only stay, Bob!"

Onnie stayed, and
Mrs. Rawling was gratified by humble obedience and excellent cookery.
Sanford was gratified by her address, strange to him. He was the property
of his father's lumbermen, and their wives called him everything from
"heart's love" to "little cabbage," as their origin might dictate;
but no one had ever called him "Master San." He was San to the whole
valley, the first-born of the owner who gave their children schools
and stereopticon lectures in the union chapel, as his father had before
him. He went where he pleased, safe except from blind nature and the
unfriendly edges of whirling saws. Men fished him out of the dammed
river, where logs floated, waiting conversion into merchantable planking,
and the Varian boys, big, tawny youngsters, were his body-guard. These
perplexed Onnie Killelia in her first days at Rawling's Hope.

"The
agent's lads are whistlin' for Master San," she reported to Mrs. Rawling.
"Shall I be findin' him?"

"The agent's lads? Do you mean the Varian
boys?"

"Them's them. Wouldn't Jim Varian be his honor's agent? Don't
he be payin' the tenantry an' sayin' where is the trees to be felled?
I forbid them to come in, as Miss Margot--which is a queer name!--is
asleep sound, an' Master Pete."

"Jim Varian came here with his honor's
father, and taught his honor to shoot and swim, also his honor's brother
Peter, in New York, where we live in winter. Yes, I suppose you'd
call Jim Varian his honor's agent. The boys take care of Master San
almost as well as you do."

Onnie sniffed, balancing from heel to
heel.

"Fine care! An' Bill Varian lettin' him go romping by the poison-ivy,
which God lets grow in this place like weeds in a widow's garden.
An' his honor, they do be sayin', sends Bill to a fine school, and
will the others after him, and to a college like Dublin has after.
An' they callin' himself San like he was their brother!"

As a volunteer
nurse-maid Onnie was quite miraculous to her mistress. Apparently
she could follow Sanford by scent, for his bare soles left no traces
in the wild grass, and he moved rapidly, appearing at home exactly
when his stomach suggested. He was forbidden only the slate ledges
beyond the log basin, where rattlesnakes took the sun, and the trackless
farther reaches of the valley, bewildering to a small boy, with intricate
brooks and fallen cedar or the profitable yellow pine. Onnie, crying
out on her saints, retrieved him from the turn-table-pit of the narrow-gauge
logging-road, and pursued his fair head up the blue-stone crags behind
the house, her vast feet causing avalanches among the garden beds.
She withdrew him with railings from the enchanting society of louse-infested
Polish children, and danced hysterically on the shore of the valley-wide,
log-stippled pool when the Varians took him to swim. She bore him
off to bed, lowering at the actual nurse. She filled his bath, she
cut his toe-nails. She sang him to sleep with "Drolien" and the heart-shattering
lament for Gerald. She prayed all night outside his door when he had
a brief fever. When trouble was coming, she said the "snake's bells"
told her, talking loudly; and petty incidents confirmed her so far
that, after she found the child's room ablaze from one of Rawling's
cigarettes, they did not argue, and grew to share half-way her superstition.
 She said it in a way that made me sure she had already
suffered the question, as Don Alberto has now told you is really the case.'

'It all agrees very well together,' Ortensia announced, shaking her head. 'Poor Pina! Perhaps
Don Alberto threatened her, for I suppose he has power to do anything he pleases here in Rome.'

'I will go and ask her,' Stradella said. 'That is the simplest way.'

'No! Please----' Ortensia showed such signs of distress that her husband was surprised.

'Why not? Do you think it would be unfair, or would hurt her feelings? Then call her here,
and ask her yourself before me. She will probably confess the truth.'

'She would be more likely to conceal it, since you have not the power to use threats!'

'Possibly, but I doubt it. The woman is a coward, and if you speak sharply she will be frightened.
I do not like to think that when I am out of the house and my man is out too, anybody may get
in. You are not safe in such conditions. Any ruffian who knew her story could force his way
to you! No, no, love--we must speak to her at once!'

He was already going towards the door, but Ortensia rose quickly and overtook him before he
could go out, catching him by the hand and holding him back.

'You must hear me first,' she cried in great anxiety, leading him to a seat beside her.

He had followed her without resistance, too much surprised to object. If any reason for her
action suggested itself it was that she wished to spare Pina's feelings, probably out of affection
for the nurse. But Ortensia took one of his hands and pressed it against her eyes as she began
to speak, for she thought she had done something very wicked in concealing from him that she
had really seen Don Alberto.

'I do not know why Pina let him in,' she said in a low voice, as if making a confession, 'but
he found me there, in the next room, and he had come on purpose to see me, and not you.'

She went on and told Stradella everything she could remember, which, indeed, was most of the
conversation, including Don Alberto's jesting pretence that he had been acting.

'I did not want to make trouble,' Ortensia concluded tearfully. 'I meant to tell you to-morrow--are
you very angry? You can call Pina now, if you like----'

Stradella had risen and was pacing the room, evidently in no very gentle temper, though he
was far too just to blame his wife for what had happened. After a few moments Ortensia rose
and went to him, and as he stopped she laid her hands upon his shoulders, looking up into his eyes.

'You are angry with me,' she said very sorrowfully. 'I did the best I could. He would not go away.'

Instantly he took her in his arms, lifted her clear of the floor, and kissed her passionately,
again and again; and at the very first touch of his lips she understood, though she could almost
feel his anger against Altieri throbbing in the hands that held her.

'I have borne enough from that man,' he said, letting her stand on her feet again, and he slipped
his right arm round her waist, and made her walk up and down with him. 'He will take no answer
from you, he forces himself upon you when you are alone, he thinks that because he is the Pope's
nephew no one dares to face him and say him nay!'

He was very angry, and at each phrase his hand unconsciously tightened its hold on Ortensia's
waist, as if to emphasise what he was saying; and though he said little enough, she felt that
his blood was up, and that it would be ill for Don Alberto to meet him in his present mood.
A Tuscan would have dissolved his temper in a torrent of useless blasphemy, as Tuscans generally
do, a Roman would have roared out fearful threats, a Neapolitan would have talked of the knife
with many gestures; the Sicilian did not raise his voice, though it shook a little, and he
only said he had borne enough, but if his enemy had appeared at that moment he would have killed
him with his hands, and Ortensia understood him.

'You must think of me too,' she pleaded wisely. 'If you make him fight you, one of two things
will happen: either you will kill him, and then no power can save you from the Pope's vengeance,
or else he will kill you--for you will not yield till you are dead!--and I shall have to take
my own wretched life to save myself from him!'

'God forbid!' cried Stradella in a troubled voice, and pressing her to his side again. 'To
think that I imagined we should be safer in Rome than anywhere else! I suppose you are right,
sweetheart. If any harm befalls me there is no hope for you. But what am I to do? Can I take
you with me each time I am obliged to go out about my business? And if not, where can I find
any one whom I can trust to watch over you? As for Don Alberto, it is easy to speak moderately
when he is away, but if I meet him and talk with him----' He stopped short, unwilling to let
his anger waste itself in words.

'Trust no one, love,' said Ortensia softly. 'Take me with you everywhere. I shall be far happier
if you never let me be out of your sight an hour--far more happy, and altogether safe!'

'But I cannot take you up into the organ loft when I sing, or conduct music in church! You
cannot go with me behind the lattice of the Sistine choir! On Saint John's Eve, for instance,
at the Lateran, I shall have to be at least two hours with the singers and musicians. Who will
take care of you?'

'Surely,' objected Ortensia, 'you can trust your own man. Let him stand beside me while I sit
on the pedestal of the pillar nearest to the organ, where you can see me. Or ask our two mysterious
friends to guard me, for they would overmatch a dozen of Don Alberto's sort!'

She laughed, though with a slight effort; but she saw that he was inclining to the side of
discretion, at least for the present.

'And if worse comes to the worst,' she added, 'we must leave Rome and live in the South, in
your own country. I have always longed to go there.'

'Even to starve with me, love?' Stradella smiled. 'It is not in Naples that I shall be offered
three or four hundred crowns for writing a mass! Thirty or forty will be nearer the price!
Instead of living in a palace we shall take up our quarters in some poor little house over
the sea, at Mergellina or Posilippo, with three rooms, a kitchen, and a pigsty at the back,
and we shall eat macaroni and fried cuttle-fish every day, with an orange for dessert, and
a drive in a curricolo on Sunday afternoons! How will that suit the delicate tastes of the
Lady Ortensia Grimani?'

'It sounds delicious,' Ortensia said, rubbing her cheek against his coat. 'I delight in macaroni
and oranges as it is, and I can think of nothing I should like better than to have you to myself
in a little house with three rooms looking over the sea! We will give Pina a present and send
her away, and Cucurullo shall cook for us. I am sure he can, and very well, and why should
I need a maid? Let us go, Alessandro; promise that we shall! When can we start?'

'Not till after Saint Peter's Day, at all events since I have that mass to finish and conduct,'
Stradella answered, humouring her. 'But it is impossible,' he added, almost at once. 'You could
not live in that way, and I have no right to let you try it.'

'We shall be happier than we ever were before!'

'For a few days, perhaps. But the plain truth is, that I am only a poor artist, and all I have
saved is a matter of a thousand crowns in Chigi's bank. I must earn money for us both, and
there is no place where I can earn as much as I can here, under the patronage of the Pope----'

'--and his nephews,' said Ortensia, completing the sentence as he hesitated; 'and one of those
nephews is Don Alberto Altieri, who pays himself for his patronage by forcing himself upon
my privacy when you are gone out! That is the short of a very long story!'

Stradella stood still, struck by what she said, and he looked into her eyes; they met his a
little timidly, for she feared that she had hurt him.

'You are right,' he said. 'I will go at once to the Cardinal himself, and say that I cannot
undertake to write the mass for the Pope. Instead of taking a new lodging, we will leave Rome
on the feast of Saint John.'

CHAPTER XX

The following days passed quietly, and Don Alberto did not again attempt to see Ortensia alone.
He was, indeed, much occupied with more urgent affairs, for Queen Christina had noticed the
signs of his approaching defection and was becoming daily more exigent. On his side, young
Altieri only desired to be dismissed, and instead of submitting to her despotic commands in
a spirit of contrition, he cleverly managed to obey them with a sort of superior indifference
that irritated her to the verge of fury. She wreaked her temper on every one who came near
her, and so far forgot her royal dignity as to box the ears of poor Guidi, the deformed poet,
for pointing out a grammatical mistake in some Italian verses she had composed. But he would
not bear the indignity of a blow, even from her royal hand, and on that same night he packed
his manuscripts and his few belongings and left Rome to seek his fortune where he might. The
ex-Queen had Rome searched for him the very next day by a score of her servants, and it was
one of her grooms who had mistaken Cucurullo for Guidi, because he hardly knew the poet by
sight, and thought that hunchbacks were all very much alike.

Don Alberto had not neglected to speak to the Cardinal about Stradella's mass, nor was he surprised
at the careless way in which His Eminence acquiesced to the proposal and agreed that the composer
should receive a handsome fee. The young man did not notice that his uncle's thin lips twitched
a little, as if with amusement. The truth was that Stradella had come to him before Don Alberto,
and had explained that it was materially impossible to do what His Eminence had so kindly proposed
through his nephew. The Cardinal was well aware of the latter's passion for the musician's
wife, and was not at all inclined to encourage it, judging that there was more political advantage
to be gained by his young kinsman's continued intimacy with the ex-Queen than by a love-affair
with Ortensia. For Christina was almost always engaged in some intrigue, if not in actual conspiracy,
and though her dealings of this kind were as futile as her whole life had been, it was as well
that the Papal Government should know what she was really about.

A week before the Feast of Saint John, Ortensia was already packing her own and Stradella's
belongings for the journey to Naples. Though she and Pina had left Venice with no baggage but
a piece of white Spanish soap, a comb, and a little yellow leather work-case, Ortensia now
had enough linen and gowns, and laces and ribbons, to fill two respectable trunks, and Pina
was well provided with all that a serving-woman needed in the way of clothes.

Nothing had yet been said between the nurse and her mistress about Don Alberto's last visit,
but an explanation was inevitable. One day Pina asked if she might have a small box or a valise
for her own things.

'We shall not want you in Naples,' said Ortensia quietly. 'You shall have your wages from the
day when my uncle last paid you, and a present of ten gold florins for your long service; but
I shall not want you any more.'

She had been folding some delicate laces while she spoke, and she did not look up till she
heard a little choking cry from the nurse. Pina stood grasping the back of a chair to keep
herself from falling, and her face was grey.

'Good heavens!' cried Ortensia. 'Are you ill? What is the matter with you?'

Pina could hardly speak; she slowly moved her bent head from side to side as if in an agony
of pain.

'It is death!' she moaned. 'You are sending me to die!'

Ortensia went to her and took her by the arm energetically, as if to rouse her.

'This is absurd!' she cried. 'I know what you said to my husband before we fled from Venice,
and it is of no use to pretend that you are going to die of grief if you leave me!'

But Pina only shook her head, and would not look up.

'And as for having been so very faithful,' Ortensia went on, in a tone of displeasure, 'it
was only the other day that you took money from Don Alberto to let him see me when my husband
was out and I was alone! Do not deny it!'

Pina looked up now, with something of a born lady's pride in her eyes and tone.

'I never took a bribe in my life!' she cried indignantly. 'Don Alberto threatened to have me
arrested and put to the question, and I was afraid, and let him in. Yes, I was afraid. I am
a coward, for I have felt pain. That was done to me once, to make me confess, and more too!'

She held out her broken thumb, and her hand shook; and Ortensia shuddered as she looked at it.

'He threatened to have my pardon cancelled, and to have me tortured again, and then sent to
the Convent of Penitent Women for life! Do not be hard on me, for I was in one of those places
of penance for three weeks before your uncle got me a pardon and took me to his house to be
your nurse. Don Alberto frightened me--I was weak, cowardly--I let him in!'

'Poor Pina! Then it is all true? He told me your story, but I did not believe him.'

'It is all true. It was to be revenged on the Senator that I wanted you to run away. But even
so, I have helped you to be happy, for I know you are. For the happiness you have had through
me, forgive me! Do not leave me here at Don Alberto's mercy, for the sake of Heaven! He means
to carry you off, I am sure he does; and if you escape him, he will visit it all on me!'

Her hands strained on the back of the chair till the knuckles whitened with the effort, while
her body quivered as if she had been struck. Ortensia understood that she had told the truth,
and that the mere thought of physical pain almost drove her mad.

'I will take you with me to Naples,' Ortensia said. 'You will be safe there. I am sorry for
you; but how can I trust a woman who is so easily frightened?'

'Easily!' groaned Pina. 'You do not know what it is!'

But she took her mistress's hand and kissed it gratefully, with many tearful blessings.

'I must confess something else,' she said presently, 'though it is Cucurullo's business as
well as mine. We have been so much afraid that Don Alberto would try to carry you off by some
daring stroke that Cucurullo has secretly asked help of the two Venetian gentlemen, who are
still here, and they have promised to watch over you and protect you as far as they can, even
at the risk of their lives.'

'Cucurullo should not have gone to them without asking his master's consent,' said Ortensia,
not altogether pleased. 'Do you know what Don Alberto told me? He said that Count Trombin and
Count Gambardella are Bravi, the most famous in Italy!'

'It is not possible,' replied Pina, shaking her head. 'I do not believe it!'

'Don Alberto told me the truth about you, it seems,' Ortensia said rather coldly. 'Why should
he have invented a story about the other two who signed the marriage register as witnesses?
And besides, if he meant to carry me off by force, would he not very likely employ just such
men to do the deed for him?'

Pina did not try to answer this argument, but her face showed her incredulity.

'I have told you what I know,' she said. 'If anything should happen, and if one of those two
gentlemen should tell me to do anything for your safety, am I to obey? I must know that, for
perhaps there will be no time to be lost.'

'I will ask my husband,' Ortensia said. 'Let us go on with our packing.'

Pina knelt down before the open trunk again. She had told her mistress exactly what Cucurullo
had reported to her after his second interview with Tommaso, when the two men had met in the
wine-shop of the Via dei Pastini. On that occasion the ex-highwayman had told the hunchback
that his masters would be only too glad to protect Stradella and his wife against Don Alberto,
to the last drop of their blood, and that Cucurullo was free to inform the musician of their
promise or not, as he pleased. It would make no difference, they had said; henceforth Don Alberto
should be watched continually, as a mouse is watched by a cat, or in fact by two cats; at the
very first intimation that he meant mischief, they would send him to the permanent future abode
of all mischief-makers; and as for the consequences of their action, if they were ever detected,
they would take such a trifle as that upon themselves. Don Alberto might be the nephew of all
the popes and anti-popes that had reigned, excepting those who were canonised saints, and who
might therefore be offended by the statement that they did not care a cabbage who he was, not
a farthing, not a fig! If he attempted anything against the Lady Ortensia or her husband, they
would not only make him wish he were dead, but would at once oblige him by satisfying his wish.
This, at least, was Tommaso's version of what they had said, and Cucurullo saw no reason to
doubt the statement, since he had seen the two gentlemen demolish and put to flight a whole
watch in a few moments in the affair of the serenade.

What the Bravi thought of their own situation on the morning of the Eve of Saint John is difficult
to imagine; for they were in one of those exciting but equivocal situations in which modern
financiers not infrequently find themselves. Their feelings might possibly be compared to those
of Lord Byron when he had written offers of marriage to two young ladies on the same day, and
both accepted him; or to those of an 'operator' who has advised one intimate friend to buy
a certain stock at any price, and another to sell all he has, while he himself has not made
up his mind as to what he had better do; or to those of a jockey who has taken money to pull
a horse when he was sober, and has backed his mount when he was drunk.

The Bravi had, indeed, concocted a plan by which they hoped to win their money from three employers
for doing three different things, each of which was contrary to the nature of the other two.
And Gambardella might be satisfied if the attempt succeeded; but Trombin was not only his friend's
partner in the whole scheme and intent on getting an equal share of the profits, he was also
very foolishly in love with Ortensia on his own account, and was pondering how he might substitute
himself for Don Alberto in the first act of the coming comedy, or drama.

The preparations were now completed, and the two cut-throats awaited the Eve of Saint John
without the least qualm or the smallest fear for their own safety. Had they not three blank
pardons in their pockets, for themselves and Tommaso, to be filled in with their names if necessary,
or to be sold at a high price to some gentleman in trouble, if they did not need them?

Nothing was wanting. Tommaso had found the very carriage for the purpose and the horses for
the first start, and he himself could drive them four-in-hand without a postillion, for he
was as good a whip as any man who drove a papal stage-coach. He had seen Don Alberto again,
and, besides the blank pardons, he had obtained the necessary order from the Governor of the
city to pass out of any gate during the night. Don Alberto had, of course, ascertained without
difficulty that Tommaso was only a servant who represented the two famous Bravi, and in the
hands of such men young Altieri felt that the enterprise could not fail.

The little house in the Via di Santa Sabina was also ready, but he knew nothing of this arrangement,
and was willing that the Bravi should keep secret the spot where he was to meet Ortensia, if
they preferred to do so. When the evening came he meant that one of his own men, who had served
him in a score of adventures, should follow him and Tommaso stealthily to the place of meeting
and hold himself ready, within call, after Tommaso had gone away with the money that was to
be paid on delivering up Ortensia.

Now before I go on to tell what happened on that memorable night, let me say that if any of
the events I am about to describe seem improbable to a sceptical reader, he had better learn
the Italian language and dive into one of those yellow manuscript accounts of similar affairs
which were written out in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and of which whole volumes
can still be bought in Italy for a few francs. He will not go far without finding matter quite
as surprising as what I shall put down in this tale, though in all likelihood much more unsavoury
to his modern taste. Moreover, there is proof that a good many of those accounts are quite
as accurate as what a fairly decent newspaper gives us nowadays for truth; and they are not,
as a whole, more nasty, though they are differently worded, because in those days Boileau was
calling 'a cat a cat, and Rolet a rascal,' and even people who were not poets called a spade
a spade.

A little rain fell during the night before Saint John's Eve, but the morning of the twenty-third
of June was clear and calm, and the air had cooled a little. In Rome, for those who do not
fear a little sunshine, June is the most beautiful of all the months, and the loveliest June
days are those that follow showery nights. Then all the trees of the great villas are in full
leaf and all the flowers are in bloom: the gorgeous, stiff-necked, courtly flowers in the formal
beds and borders of the Pope's gardens; the soft, sweet-scented, shapely carnations that grow
in broken pots and pitchers outside the humble windows of Trastevere; the stately lilies in
the marble fountains behind the princely palace, and the roses that run riot in the poor Jewish
burial-ground halfway up the Aventine; the heavy-scented tuberose and the rich blossom of bitter
orange in the high Colonna gardens, and the sweet basil growing in a rusty iron pail in the
belfry of Santa Maria Maggiore, where the old bell-ringer eats the savoury leaves with his
coarse bread and cheese, while he rests after ringing the bells for high mass and waits till
it is time to ring them again at noon, and he waters the plant from his drinking pitcher. Then
the wild onion is in flower that scares away witches and keeps off the Evil Eye, and from all
the broad Campagna the scent of new-mown hay is wafted through the city gates. Then, though
the sun does not yet scorch the traveller, the shade is already a heavenly refreshment; and
though a man is not parched with thirst, a cold draught from the Fountain of Egeria is more
delicious than any wine, and under the ancient trees of the pagan grove the rose-purple cyclamens
and the dark wood-violets are still blooming side by side. The air is full of the breath of
life, the deep earth is still soft, and all trees and flowers and grasses still feel the tender
youth of the spring that is not yet quite gone.

Then, too, the gilliflowers are out, and on Saint John's Eve before Vespers the Canons used
to bless thousands upon thousands of them, tied up in neat bunches, in small flat baskets,
and the poor of Rome came to the door of the sacristy on the south side and received them to
take home to their sick and infirm, with the blessing of Saint John and a reviving breath of
blossoming nature. But on that day many tents and booths of boughs were also set up on the
broad green that stretched away to the hedges of vineyards and vegetable gardens, where modern
houses now are built. In each booth there was a little kitchen, a mere earthen fire-pot, such
as the alchemists used of old, but larger, and there were tables made of boards laid on trestles
with rude benches for seats, and there were little ten-gallon barrels of wine still unbroached,
and piles of loaves covered with clean white cloths, and there was much green lettuce for salad,
floating in tubs full of water, and there were also fresh onions without end, with their long
stalks and big bunches of tiny flowers. For on the Eve of Saint John the Baptist all fairies
good and bad, and goblins that are black or grey, and the white hobgoblins too, and the shadowy,
unearthly lemures, have deadly power; and ghosts and wraiths go wailing through lonely church-yards,
and the fountain sprites float on the water and laugh in the pale moonlight; the misshapen
things of evil that haunt murderers' graves move strangely in the gloom; and though the air
be still, the chains that dangle from old gibbets all clank together wildly when the blood-spectres
hang upon them with wan hands and swing themselves to and fro; then the banshee shrieks amongst
the ancient elms, and deep down in the crypt of far San Sisto, by the Latin Gate, the Shining
Corpse rises from his grave against the south wall and glares horribly all night at his fellow-dead.
No wonder that against such terrors the Roman people thought it wise to eat snails fried in
oil, and to carry onions in blossom in their hands, and especially to fortify their quailing
spirits with many draughts of strong wine from Genzano, and Frascati, and Marino, till the
grey dawn forelightened above the Samnite hills, and a decent man might go home to sleep safely
by daylight, and be waked only by the bells that rang out for high mass at ten o'clock.

So in the late afternoon all those excellent preparations had been made for resisting ghostly
fear, and as soon as the sun went down the firepots in the booths would be filled with charcoal,
and presently a marvellous smell of frying oil would pervade the air, while thousands upon
thousands of little lights would be lighted, all made of big snail-shells filled with olive
oil and tallow and each having a tiny wick in it. But the sun was not low yet, and the great
bells were ringing to call the people into the Basilica for Vespers.

Fine coaches drove up to the transept entrance, one after the other, bringing cardinals and
princes and Roman ladies of high rank by the score; and their gorgeously liveried footmen followed
them into the church carrying fald-stools and kneeling-cushions as if for a great ceremony
in Saint Peter's; and though it was a cloudless day in June two huge closed umbrellas, of the
colours of each family, were strapped upon the top of every coach, but those of the cardinals
were scarlet. Amongst the many arrivals came the blue and yellow liveries of Christina of Sweden,
and with her was Don Alberto in a wonderful summer suit of pale dove-coloured silk, and he
wore the collar of the Order of Saint Gregory; there were several other gentlemen in her train,
and not a few ladies, so that she was royally attended. She herself wore a three-cornered blue
French hunting-hat on the top of her immense black wig, and a short riding-skirt of green cloth,
and boots like a man.

The reason why there was such a concourse of society at the Lateran on the eve of the feast
was that Alessandro Stradella was going to sing an air himself, and direct a part of the service
which he had composed for the occasion; and besides, a vast number of the common people were
collected about the Basilica, both from the city and from the Campagna, to enjoy the customary
feast of snails as a defence against witches and fairies, and they thronged into the church
through the great east door to hear the music too, till there was no standing-room at all in
the transepts and little in the nave and aisles for thirty or forty yards below the tabernacle,
close beside which the old organ used to stand. For there was no loft then, and the instrument
stood out in the church with its wide wooden balcony, draped all in red, which is the colour
appropriate to the Apostles, and to Martyrs also, of whom Saint John the Baptist is counted
one. The organ was a new one then, and, by the same token, I saw it when I was young, and the
keyboard was strangely made; for there were two black keys together everywhere where we have
one, the first being for the sharp of the natural below it, and the second for the flat of
the natural above; and this meant that the ingenious builder had thought he could get rid of
the 'wolf' and produce an instrument with the combined advantages of the even temper and the
uneven; and any one who does not know what that means may ask a tuner to explain it for him
or not, just as he pleases; but the old organ had double black keys, for I saw and touched
them myself, and that was the very instrument to which Stradella sang on the afternoon of Saint
John's Eve so long ago. It has probably been destroyed altogether, but Rome is a great place
for treasuring rubbish and rombowline, and perhaps the old keyboard still exists, with stacks
of wooden and metal pipes and bundles of worm-eaten trackers, all piled up together and forgotten
in some corner of the crypt, or in some high belfry room or long-closed attic above the gorgeous
ceiling of the Basilica.

It is a long distance from the Palazzo Altieri to the Lateran, and the Canons sent one of their
coaches to convey Stradella to the church. He brought Ortensia with him, and found Cucurullo
already waiting at the transept door.

'It is impossible to get in by this way, sir,' said the hunchback, coming to the window of
the carriage. 'All Rome is here, from the Sacred College and the Queen of Sweden to the poorest
notary's clerk, and it would take an hour to make your way through the crowd. Below the tabernacle
the church is nearly half full of country people.'

'You will have to go in by the main door,' Stradella said to Ortensia. 'Cucurullo will take
you as far up the church as possible, and will not leave your side till I come. As for me,
I must go round by the sacristy. Get up behind, Cucurullo, and tell the coachman to take us
to the other entrance.'

Cucurullo obeyed with some difficulty, for a crowd of young idlers of the poorer sort had collected
to see the cardinals and nobles go in, and they pressed upon him to touch his hump for luck,
which should be at least double on such a day; and most of them blessed him, lest he should
look round angrily and cast the Evil Eye upon them. But as he was short he found it hard to
reach the footman's hanging strap, till a couple of strong fellows lifted him bodily and set
him on the footboard. He submitted kindly to the touches he felt, and thanked his helpers with
a smile. Then the coach drove away.

Leaning back in its depths, Ortensia wound her arms round her husband's neck, and kissed him
tenderly.

'I shall sing for you only, love,' he said. 'Even if you cannot see me, you will know that
every note comes from my heart, and is meant only for your ears!'

'One day more, and I shall have you all to myself,' she answered softly.

The coach stopped again, and Cucurullo dropped from the footboard behind and came to the door.
Stradella had now no time to lose, and he let Ortensia get out alone and go in with his man,
and before she had disappeared he was driven away to the door of the sacristy. A few moments
later he was in the singers' robing-room, hastily getting into the purple silk cassock and
the spotless lace-trimmed cotta which he had to wear when he appeared in the organ-loft of
a basilica, or among the singers of the Sistine Chapel. He brought these things, with his own
score of his music, in a purple cloth bag which Ortensia had worked for him, and she had embroidered
a lyre on it in silver thread, with the word 'Harmonia' in cursive letters for a motto.

Half the singers were already in the organ loft, and the Canons were in their places droning
the psalms for the day antiphonally, and very much through their portentous noses, even as
they do to-day. As the noise they made was neither musical nor edifying, Roman society was
conversing without the least restraint, except from the fact of being packed rather close together
in a comparatively small space. Here and there little openings in the crowd marked the positions
of the Cardinals and their parasites, of Queen Christina with her court, and of two or three
of the greatest Roman ladies, such as the Princess Orsini and the Princess Rospigliosi, whose
husbands were Princes of the Empire as well as Roman nobles. They all talked pleasantly and
jested, and even laughed, as if they were anywhere but in church, only pausing when the Gloria
Patri was sung from time to time at the end of a psalm.

Far overhead the level beams of the lowering sun poured through the northwest windows. From
the ancient mosaic of the tribune vault the still faces of heavenly personages looked down
at the doings of a half-believing age with a sad and solemn surprise.

While they talked, the ex-Queen and many others glanced occasionally at the balcony of the
organ, and when Stradella at last appeared a little murmur of satisfaction ran through the
courtly throng, quite different in tone from the hum of conversation that had preceded it;
and as he looked down the great singer saw many acquaintances who made signs of greeting to
him, and the ex-Queen waved her painted fan high in the air, while a sprightly little Neapolitan
duchess, who was in Rome for a visit and had known him a long time, actually blew him a kiss
from the tips of her small gloved fingers. He smiled gravely, nodded once or twice, and disappeared
behind the other singers.

From the other side of the balcony, where it ran round the organ to the rickety wooden steps,
his gaze searched the distance, looking for Ortensia; and at last he saw her on the outskirts
of the crowd of common people and peasants, leaning against the corner of the third pilaster
from the main entrance on his left as he looked down the church. His eyes were good, and, besides,
though she wore a large veil exactly like that of many of the other ladies, he was sure it
was she because Cucurullo was beside her, unmistakable by his deformity, even at that distance
and in the shadow that darkened the nave below. Stradella had a roll of music in his hand and,
looking towards his wife, he held it above his head for a signal; he immediately saw her raise
her hand and wave it a little, and Cucurullo held up his broad hat too. They had seen him and
he was satisfied; and at that moment the Canons reached the end of the last psalm, and Stradella
joined in the Gloria that followed it, still standing where he was and looking at Ortensia
in the distance. He let his voice ring out to her, as different in tone from all the other
voices in the loft as strings are different from wood and brass instruments, and every syllable
he sang reached her ear; and now she raised her hand again to show that she had heard him,
and he held up his little roll of music to return her signal, and then went to the front of
the organ to direct the concerted piece that was to follow.

If there had been time, he would have stopped and looked back again, for as he turned he had
the impression, without the certainty, that Trombin and Gambardella were standing at the edge
of the crowd on the other side of the nave from Ortensia. She had told him of the step Cucurullo
had taken, and he had not blamed his man; on the contrary, the thought that the two Bravi were
perhaps near her now was comforting, and he wished that he were quite sure of having seen them.
As he took his place at the desk to direct, he glanced to his right again, but the singing
men close to him hindered him from seeing the body of the church.

He had not been mistaken, however, for the Bravi were there and just in sight, at some little
distance behind Ortensia, near the pilaster next beyond the one by which she stood. They were
both dressed in black, and though it was a warm afternoon in June, each carried a black cloak
on his arm. Their long hair was parted and smoothed with even more than customary neatness,
and Trombin's yellow locks were so wonderfully arranged that they might easily have been taken
for a wig. His pink face wore a more than usually boyish and innocent expression, and as he
stood beside his companion listening to what the latter was saying in an undertone, his eyes
gazed steadily at Ortensia's graceful figure. Both men were evidently indifferent to the possibility
of her turning and seeing them, and in fact they had taken up their present position in the
hope of being seen by Stradella himself from the organ, acting the part of protectors to his wife.

'We have trusted each other in much more dangerous affairs than this,' Gambardella said, almost
in a whisper, 'but I have never before known you to lose your heart to the subject of our operations.'

'"Subject" is good!' answered Trombin. '"Subject" is excellent! You speak like a teacher of
anatomy! But, so far, you are right, for I cannot take my eyes from that adorable lady. My
friend, do you notice the exquisite curve from the throat to the shoulder and from the shoulder
to the elbow? And the marvellously suggestive fall of the skirt? And the reflection of the
sunshine from overhead in her wonderful hair where it shows from under her veil? Answer me,
have you ever seen anything more perfect in art or nature?'

'No, nor anything more complete than your madness,' answered Gambardella. 'If you speak a little
louder she will hear you!'

'And turn her angel's eyes to mine!' whispered Trombin sentimentally. 'There is no poetry in
your soul, my friend! You were certainly born without any heart, or, if I may say so, with
a heart like a German prune, all dried up and hard, and needing to be boiled for hours in syrup
to soften it! On the other hand, I may compare my own to the fresh fruit on the tree in July,
delicate, juicy, and almost palpitating in the sunshine with its own sweetness!'

Gambardella smiled sourly and shook his head.

'You once had a good intelligence,' he said, 'but it is shattered. Are you capable of listening
to me like a sensible being, while that lady is in sight? If not, come with me behind the pilaster,
for I have something to say before we separate.'

As if admitting that he was helpless so long as he could gaze on Ortensia, Trombin allowed
his friend to lead him away into the shadow.

'Now, listen,' said Gambardella. 'We are playing three games, and if you call yours one, it
is the fourth, and the stakes are high. The smallest mistake or hesitation will lose us everything,
as you know, and before long we shall be living in an attic again and supping on salt fish
and olives. But if we win we shall have money enough to enjoy a whole year of luxury, and with
a little economy to live comfortably for a much longer time.'

'I know it,' answered Trombin, on whom the stronger will of his companion made an impression.
'I shall keep my head at the right moment, never fear!'

'But in order that we may risk nothing, I had better play the first part of the comedy, since
that is the most important to the success of the whole.'

The two cut-throats looked at each other steadily for some moments, as if neither meant to
give way, and possibly they remembered their first meeting, a good many years earlier; for
their acquaintance had begun in a sharp quarrel, in which they had almost instantly fallen
to fighting, and it was not till they had fenced for nearly twenty minutes, without a scratch
on either side, though each was trying to kill the other, that they had both lowered their
rapiers in mutual admiration, and had forthwith made the alliance which had never been shaken
since.

Yet, though they were so evenly matched in strength and skill, Gambardella was the more determined
character, and in important moments like the present his decision generally prevailed; and
so it ended now, for Trombin at last turned his round eyes away and nodded his assent.

'Very well,' he said, in a tone of resignation. 'Then I will wait for Stradella at the door
of the sacristy. That was the original plan. Hark! He is singing now!'

The two came out from behind the pillar and stood still to listen; and Gambardella's eyes gazed
steadily at the vast mosaic above the tribune, while his friend's look fixed itself again on
Ortensia's graceful figure, and he feasted his sight, while his ears were filled with the most
rare music that the world had ever heard in that day.

Only those who have listened to a beautiful voice singing in the Lateran towards evening can
understand that, in spite of the grievous disfigurements of the barocco age, and the exaggerated
modern decorations of the nineteenth century, the 'Mother of all Churches,' as the Basilica
is called, can still seem the most deeply and truly hallowed place of worship in Christendom.
There is a mystery in it at the sunset hour which is felt by all men, though none can explain
it; the light glows and fades there as nowhere else, the shadows have a sweet solemnity of
their own, and consummate art, or supreme good-fortune, has made the vast nave and colonnaded
aisles responsive to the softest notes the human voice can breathe. First the full organ blares
out triumphantly alone, and by and by the chorus, borne up by the master instrument, swells
from a hundred throats in such tremendous harmonies that the marble pavement seems alive and
thrilling under a man's feet; yet the words are not lost in a clashing din of senseless noise,
for every one of them is complete and reaches the astonished ear unbroken and distinct. Then,
in an instant, the enormous gale of sound is hushed and leaves no echo, and one voice alone
is singing a low melody, divinely spiritual as an angel's prayer. It rises presently, full
and strong, but every syllable rings out clear and perfect, even to the outer doors; it sinks
to all but a whisper, yet each delicate articulation floats unbroken to the remotest corner
of the outer aisle, till he who listens feels the word vibrating in his heart rather than in
his outward ears.

Ortensia felt more than that, for the music was that of the man she loved so well, and the
single voice was his too, and the prayer it sang was for her, and was in her heart while she
listened; and, moreover, Alessandro Stradella was not matched in voice or genius by any singer
of his age. It would be as hopeless to attempt a description of his singing on that day as
to analyse the feelings that thrilled Ortensia. There are delights that must be felt to be
believed, and only three are noble, for they have their sources in true love, and in supreme
art, and in honourable fight for wife and child and country. Ortensia felt the first two of
these together; but he who dies, not having known even one of them, had better not have lived
at all.

As afternoon turned to evening, the straight golden beams overhead melted to a red glow that
spread downwards and illuminated all the great church for a little while; then the light deepened
to purple, and that softened to violet, and the candles about the high altar under the tabernacle
shone out through thin clouds of incense like many stars. Again Stradella's voice was heard
alone, and Ortensia sank upon her knees beside her pillar, though it was not yet quite time
for kneeling. It was as if she could bear no more of such intense pleasure without praying
to heaven that it might be hers hereafter to love her true love to all ages, and for ever to
hear his voice singing to her in a place of peace.

The Bravi had now parted company, and Trombin had quietly gone out of the church, leaving Gambardella
alone. The dark-faced man in black moved slowly and noiselessly as a shadow; he crossed the
nave far down by the door, and walked up the outer aisle on the south side, till he could go
no farther up for the crowd; then he turned to his right, making his way quietly through the
multitude wherever the people were least closely packed, and he emerged at last not far from
where Ortensia was kneeling, and with all the appearance of having come out of the thick of
the press, which was exactly what he wished her to believe.

She was still kneeling, and Cucurullo was standing beside her, hat in hand. It was now so dark
in the body of the Basilica that Stradella could not possibly see any one there, especially
as he was dazzled by the many candles that illuminated the upper end of the church.

Gambardella bowed gravely and bent down to speak near Ortensia's ear.

'I have a message from the Maestro for you,' he said, almost in a whisper.

Ortensia had already looked up with a little surprise, which now increased.

'A message?' she repeated. 'We came here together, and he has not left the organ loft since!'

'Precisely,' answered Gambardella, unmoved. 'I was standing in the crowd just below, and when
he had finished directing the motett he made me a sign to go to the steps at the back. I went,
and he was already halfway down the ladder. He seemed much agitated. You must have noticed
how strangely his voice thrilled in that last piece he sang.'

'Yes. Tell me what he said!'

Ortensia was already breathless with anxiety, and as she spoke she got upon her feet. Gambardella
helped her.

'He had a note in his hand. It was a warning which some one had brought to him in the loft.
Altieri's plan is to conceal a number of men in your apartment this last night that you are
to sleep there. When all is quiet they are to gag you and your husband, and carry you downstairs
to Don Alberto's carriage. If you attempt to go home to the palace the scheme will inevitably
succeed.'

Ortensia stood leaning back against the pilaster very white. Gambardella continued.

'The Maestro asked me if I knew of any place of safety to which you could both go to-night
before leaving Rome to-morrow. I told him that my friend and I have just hired a small house
in a quiet part of the city, which is at your service, especially as we have not yet moved
to it. He begged me to take you there at once before Don Alberto can leave the church, and
possibly see you driving away with me.'

'But my husband----' interrupted Ortensia.

'My friend Trombin is already at the door of the sacristy, and will bring him to you as soon
as he can get away. It will be nearly half an hour before the Benediction is over. But there
is no time to be lost. Ah--I forgot! He wished Cucurullo to hasten to the palace and get his
manuscripts and his lute, and any small necessaries for you that can be hidden under a cloak.
Your man can get there, and be on his way back before Don Alberto can be at home. Even if the
men are already concealed in the apartment they will not trouble Cucurullo for fear of betraying
their master. As for your woman, Altieri has probably had her arrested and taken away.'

Gambardella had purposely told his story so that Cucurullo could hear it, and had glanced at
him from time to time to be sure that he understood.

'Are you afraid to go alone?' asked the Bravo, not at all contemptuously.

'No, sir. I am not afraid. Where shall I find my master when I have got the things?'

'Do you know where Santa Prassede is, in that narrow street near Santa Maria Maggiore?'

'Certainly, sir. Shall I wait at the side door of the church? It is a lonely place.'

'Yes. Be there as soon as you can. The house is close by, but I could not easily make you understand
which it is.' Gambardella turned to Ortensia. 'Will you come with me?' he asked. 'My friend
and I have a carriage, and it is at the main door.'

Ortensia laid her hand on the Bravo's arm, not doubting that she was obeying her husband's
wishes for her safety and his. It would have taken more than Don Alberto's rude assertion to
make her and Stradella distrust the men who had helped them so efficiently in their flight.
The two might be Bravi, as he said, but they were friends, and in such a case as this they
were the very friends the young couple needed.

The three entered the inner aisle to avoid all possibility of being seen by Don Alberto, and
hastened towards the main door. Though Ortensia was not timid, her heart beat a little faster
when she thought of the danger from which she was escaping. It was already nearly dark in the
church, but the twilight was still bright outside, and the carriage was standing quite close
to the old porch; for the present portico was not built then, and the steep carriage road ended
in a square patch of pavement before the doors.

Cucurullo glanced at the coachman and recognised Tommaso, who nodded to him with a friendly
smile. Then the hunchback hurried away on his errand, leaving Gambardella to take care of Ortensia,
who was already getting in.

'To Santa Prassede,' said the Bravo to the coachman, in a tone meant for Ortensia's ears.

Then he got in, shut the door, and seated himself beside her, bolt upright, with his rapier
between his knees, and his hands clasped on the hilt. Ortensia glanced at him in the dim light,
and noticed his attitude with satisfaction, and not without reflecting on the terror she would
feel if Don Alberto were in his place. Nothing could be more reassuring than Gambardella's
behaviour.

'I suppose the carriage will go back for my husband?' she said. 'The Canons lent us one of
theirs to bring us to the church and take us home, but you will not trust to that, will you?'

'No, indeed! If you do not mind being alone in the house for twenty minutes I will go back
with this carriage, or it can go without me and I will stay with you.'

'I shall not be afraid,' Ortensia answered rashly. 'On the contrary, I shall feel much safer
if I know that you are going for my husband yourself, for there can be no mistake then.'

'Precisely,' Gambardella said. 'That will be the best way.'

'How kind you are!' Ortensia sighed, and leaned back in the deep seat.

She did not know Rome very well yet, and it was the hour when all the little snail-shell lamps
were being lighted for the feast, and their glimmer still further confused her; besides, she
was not quite sure where Santa Prassede was, nor in what sort of neighbourhood it was situated.
In that wide region, then almost without inhabitants, and mostly divided into hedged vineyards
and market-gardens, small groups of houses stood here and there, more or less alike, but generally
in the neighbourhood of the ancient churches which had been built before the city was unpeopled
in the Middle Ages. Ortensia was not in the least surprised when the carriage stopped before
a decent-looking little house, after ascending a steep hill. Gambardella opened the carriage
and got out to help her down.

'Are you quite sure that you do not mind being left alone here for a while?' he asked, as he
unlocked the door of the house, and held it open for her to go in.

'If you can give me a light I shall not mind being alone at all,' Ortensia answered, and she
went in.

He followed her at once, shut the door behind him to keep out the chilly breeze, and began
the process of getting a light with flint and steel and tinder and one of those wooden matches
dipped in sulphur, which had then been recently invented. By the sparks he made Ortensia saw
that he was standing beside an old marble table on which stood a brass lamp with a three-cornered
bowl that slid up and down on a stem.

The place had the peculiar odour of small Italian houses that are built of stone, that stand
in vineyards or market-gardens, and that are rarely opened; it is a smell compounded of the
odour of the worm-eaten furniture, smoke-stained kitchen ceiling and wall, and the dusty plaster
within the house, combined with a faint sub-odour of growing things, from vines to broccoli,
which finds its way through the cracks of badly fitting doors and windows.

When there was light at last, Ortensia saw that she was in a commonplace little whitewashed
vestibule, from which a single flight of stone stairs led directly to the door of the living
rooms above. Gambardella went up first, holding the brass lamp low down for her to see the
steps. The room into which he led her had a Venetian pavement, and was sufficiently well furnished.
The walls were painted to represent views which were presumably visible from the windows by day.

'Are you quite sure there is no one in the house?' asked Ortensia, who liked the prospect of
solitude less and less as the time for being left alone came nearer.

'There is a bedroom at each end,' answered Gambardella. 'You shall see for yourself. Above
this there is a sort of attic which can only be reached from outside by steps that also lead
to a terrace on the roof.'

He showed her the two bedrooms, which had evidently been just cleaned and put in order, and
looked very neat. Ortensia was reassured.

'And what is there downstairs?' she asked.

'A kitchen and a dining-room,' Gambardella answered. 'But I must be off if I am to fetch the
Maestro. We shall be here in half an hour at the utmost.'

Just then a great bell not very far off tolled three strokes, then four, then five, and then
one, and an instant later it rang out in a peal.

'It is Ave Maria,' Gambardella said. 'The Benediction is over by this time. You had better
come down with me and hook the chain inside the front door.'

Ortensia followed him down the stairs again, and he carried the lamp. As he went she heard
him hurriedly repeating the Angelus.

'"Angelus Domini nuntiavit,"' he began, quite audibly, but the words that followed were said
in a whisper.

Ortensia repeated the prayer to herself too, partly by force of habit, no doubt, but partly
because it was a comfort to say it with the kind-hearted friend who had once more intervened
to help her and her husband in time of danger. Even the Bravo, who could say his prayers uncommonly
fast, had not finished when they reached the foot of the stairs, and as Ortensia set the lamp
on the corner of the yellow marble table she distinctly heard him say the first words of the
third responsory.

'"And dwelt with us,"' she answered quietly and clearly.

He laid his hand on the lock of the hall door, and when he turned to her his eyes met hers
with a look she had never seen. Both repeated the third Ave Maria aloud, while he gazed earnestly
at her pure young face, so sweetly framed in the soft folds of the veil. Then without waiting
for the final prayer he opened the door, and as he shut it after him she heard him say something
aloud, but the words were so strange and unexpected that she repeated them to herself twice
while she was hooking the chain before she quite realised what they were, and understood them.

'"And Judas went out and hanged himself."'

That was what he had said as he went away.

CHAPTER XXI

When Stradella came down from the organ-loft after the Benediction he was in haste to reach
the sacristy before any of the choristers, as he did not mean to keep Ortensia waiting a moment
longer than necessary. But to his annoyance a number of his admiring acquaintances had already
made their way to that side; and this was the more easy, because the throng of common people
who had pressed upon the fashionable company had already retreated down the church to the main
entrance in haste to see the beginning of the witches' feast and the snail-shell illumination.

At every step the musician had to shake hands and receive civilly the congratulations that
were showered upon him; and suddenly Don Alberto was beside him, and was drawing him away.

'The Queen insists on thanking you herself, dear Maestro,' said the courtier, smiling. 'I see
that you are in a hurry, but royalty is royalty, and you must sacrifice yourself on the altar
of your own fame with a good grace!'

Unsuspecting of harm as he was, Stradella yielded, and tried not to look displeased. While
speaking Altieri had dragged him through the crowd towards Christina, who was standing up,
evidently waiting for them, and looking particularly mannish in her three-cornered hat and
short skirt. The only ornament she had put on was the magnificent cross of diamonds which she
wore on her bosom at all times.

'One has to come to church to see you, Maestro,' she cried in a heavily playful manner. 'Do
you know that you have not darkened my doors for a fortnight, sir? What is the meaning of this?
But I forgive you, for your music has ravished my soul, falling like a refreshing shower on
my burning anger!'

The metaphors were badly mixed, but Stradella bent one knee and made a pretence of kissing
the unshapely hand she held out to him, and he muttered a formula expressive of gratitude.

'I am overcome by your Majesty's kindness,' he said, or something to that effect.

'To-morrow,' said the ex-Queen, 'I shall send you the medal and diploma of my Academy as a
slight acknowledgment of the pleasure I have had this afternoon. At present Don Alberto is
going to introduce me to the quaint Roman custom of eating snails in the open air. Will you
join us, Maestro? But I see that you are still in your robes, and I have no doubt you look
forward to a more substantial supper than a dish of molluscs fried in oil! Good-night, my dear
Maestro. Vale, as those delightful ancients used to say!'

She waved her hand affectedly as she turned to go. It seemed an age to Stradella before he
reached the sacristy, and when he got there he was surprised to find Trombin waiting by the
door of the choristers' robing-room. The Bravo went in with him, and began to help him out
of his cotta and cassock.

'I came to tell you that your lady is already gone home,' Trombin said in a low voice. 'She
felt a sudden dizziness and weakness, as if she were going to faint. Luckily I was not far
off, and when I saw Cucurullo supporting her I went to his assistance, and we took her out
to her carriage, which was waiting.'

Stradella looked at him anxiously, but the Bravo only smiled.

'Nothing serious, I am sure,' the latter said, in a reassuring tone. 'But she will be glad
to see you as soon as possible, and if the Canons' carriage has not come back, my friend and
I will take you home at once in ours; we have just bought one for our convenience.'

'Thank you,' Stradella answered, letting Trombin help him to pull his arms out of the tight
sleeves of the purple silk cassock. 'You are very kind.'

He was evidently too anxious about Ortensia to say more, and in a few seconds he had got into
his coat, and Trombin was arranging the broad linen collar for him as cleverly as any valet
could have done.

Trombin was well aware that Tommaso was not coming back to the Lateran with the coach, since
the bells were already ringing for Ave Maria, and the man was to meet Don Alberto behind the
Baptistery in an hour--'the first hour of the night'; but he pretended angry surprise at not
finding the carriage waiting. The one provided by the Canons was there, however, and Stradella
recognised it, which Trombin could not have done, amongst the crowd of equipages that were
waiting for the numerous ecclesiastics who had taken part in the service. It was now all but
quite dark, but the coachman had received orders to be near the door and ready, lest the famous
singer should catch cold.

Stradella was in far too great a hurry to question him, and jumped in at once, glad that Trombin
should go with him. The carriage drove away at a smart pace, long before the owners of the
other coaches were ready to go home.

Before the gateway of the Palazzo Altieri, Stradella got out, and tossed a florin up to the
coachman, who caught it with a grin, and drove away at once.

'A thousand thanks!' the musician said, shaking Trombin's hand.

'I have done nothing,' the Bravo answered. 'I hope to hear to-morrow that your lady----'

But Stradella was already gone, and was running up the broad staircase at the top of his speed.
A moment more and he knocked at his own door, of which the heavy key had been in Cucurullo's
keeping when they had all left the house together to go to the Lateran.

Pina opened the door in her usual quiet way, and was a little surprised to see Stradella alone.

'How is she?' he asked, as soon as he saw her face by the light of the hanging lamp in the hall.

'Who, sir?' inquired the woman, not understanding.

'My wife----' He sprang past her to go in.

'The Lady Ortensia has not come home,' he heard Pina say behind him, in a tone of such astonishment
that he stopped before he had reached the door of the sitting-room.

'Not come home?' he cried in amazement. 'You are out of your senses!'

Pina had shut the front door, and she followed him as he rushed into the sitting-room after
speaking. She had lit the lamp, and it was burning quietly on the table. The door of the bedroom
was opened wide to let the air circulate, but there was no light there. Nevertheless Stradella
ran on to the bed.

'Ortensia!' he cried, feeling for her head on the pillows, for he could not see.

Then he uttered a low exclamation of surprise and looked round. Pina was already bringing in
the lamp, and he realised at once that she had spoken the truth. Ortensia had not come home;
but even now no doubt of the Bravi crossed his mind, and he was anxious only because Trombin
had said that she was feeling ill. The carriage must have broken down or some other accident
had happened which would explain why Trombin had not found the conveyance waiting as he had
expected. The thought of a possible accident was distressing enough, but it was a comfort to
think that Gambardella and Cucurullo were with her, and would bring her home in due time.

In a few words Stradella repeated to Pina what Trombin had told him, and in his own anxiety
he did not see that she was now very pale, and that her hand shook so violently that she had
to set down the lamp she held for fear of dropping it.

'She will be at home in a few minutes,' Stradella said in conclusion, trying to reassure himself.
'I will go downstairs again and wait for her. Give me my cloak, Pina, for I am very hot, and
it will be cool under the archway.'

Trembling in every limb, Pina got his wide black cloak and laid it upon his shoulders. He drew
up one corner of it and threw it round his neck, so as to muffle his throat against the outer air.

'Pina,' he said, 'your mistress was feeling ill. She was dizzy, my friend said. We must have
something ready for her to take. What will be best?'

'Perhaps a little infusion of camomile,' Pina answered, her teeth chattering with fear.

He could not help noticing from her voice that there was something wrong, and he now looked
at her for the first time and saw that she was livid.

'I have a chill,' she managed to say. 'I have caught the fever, sir. It does not matter! I
have some camomile leaves, and I will make the infusion while you wait downstairs.'

'You ought to be in bed yourself,' Stradella said kindly, but at the same instant it occurred
to him that Ortensia had perhaps taken a fever too. 'To-morrow I will try to procure from the
Pope's physician some of that wonderful Peruvian bark that cures the fever,' he added. 'They
call it quina, I think, and few apothecaries have it.'

This was true, though nearly forty years had then already passed since the Spanish Countess
of Cinchon had first brought the precious bark to Europe, and had named it after herself, Cinchona.

Stradella was not yet by any means desperately anxious about his wife when he went downstairs
again, as may be understood from his last words to the serving-woman. He was, in fact, wondering
whether Ortensia herself had not a touch of the ague, which was so common then that no one
thought it a serious illness. He went downstairs with the conviction that she would appear
within a quarter of an hour escorted by Gambardella and Cucurullo, and he began to walk under
the great archway, from the entrance to the courtyard and back again.

As soon as he was gone Pina went to her own little room, taking the lamp with her. First she
dressed herself in her best frock, which was of good brown Florentine cloth; and then she took
a large blue cotton kerchief and made a bundle consisting of some linen and a few necessaries.
On that very morning Stradella had paid her wages, expecting to leave Rome the next day, and
she took the money and tied it up securely in a little scrap of black silk and hid it in her
dress. Lastly, she put on the same brown cloak and hood she had worn on the journey from Venice,
took her bundle under it, replaced the lamp on the sitting-room table, and left the apartment
by the small door which gave access to the servants' staircase; a few moments later she slipped
out of the palace, unobserved except by the old door-keeper who kept the back entrance and
let her out.

'I am going to the apothecary's for some camomile,' she said quietly, and the old man merely
nodded as he opened the street door for her.

The Bravi had cared very little whether Pina was at home or not when Cucurullo came to get
the objects for which Stradella had sent him at Gambardella's suggestion. One of two things
must happen, they thought, for it was clear that Cucurullo would explain everything to her,
if he saw her. Either she would come with him to Santa Prassede, and there she might wait with
him all night, for all they cared; or else she would run away as soon as he left the house,
for they guessed that she would be afraid. But things had turned out differently. When Cucurullo
had reached the apartment Pina was not there, for she had just gone down the backstairs to
get the evening supply of milk which the milkman left with the keeper of the back door. Cucurullo,
not finding her, had picked up the lute, the case of manuscripts, and a small hand valise which
was already packed for the journey with necessaries belonging both to Stradella and his wife,
and he had gone off again before Pina had returned.

She did not miss the things till Stradella came, and she carried the lamp into the bedroom;
but then she understood that some one had been in the house during her short absence, and it
flashed upon her that Ortensia had already been carried off, though she could not have told
why she connected such a possibility with what she took for a theft committed in the apartment.
Insane terror took possession of her then, with the vision of being left behind at the mercy
of Don Alberto, and she fled without hesitation, taking with her nothing that was not her own,
and only what she could easily carry for a journey. As for Cucurullo, he had no time to waste,
and thought that in any case she would be safe enough from Don Alberto's men, whose only business
would be to seize her mistress. Being fearless himself, it never occurred to him that she would
run away out of sheer fright.

Stradella paced the flagstones under the archway, waiting for the carriage, and as the time
passed his anxiety grew steadily till it became almost unbearable. The tall bearded porter
stood motionless by the entrance, resting both his hands on the huge silver pommel of his polished
staff. He could stand in that position for hours without moving. At last Stradella spoke to him.

'Has Don Alberto come home yet, Gaetano?' he asked.

'No, sir.' The porter touched his large three-cornered hat respectfully, for the musician had
that morning given him a handsome tip preparatory to leaving. 'His Excellency may not come
home till very late,' he vouchsafed to add, with a faint smile.

Stradella saw that he was inclined to talk, and though he himself had no fancy for entering
into conversation with servants, he made a remark in the nature of a question.

'I dare say his Excellency sometimes does not come home before morning.'

'Sometimes, sir,' answered Gaetano, grinning in his big black beard. 'But then he generally
gives me notice, so that I need not sit up all night. He is a very good-hearted young gentleman,
sir, as I dare say you know, for you are a friend of his. And since you have asked me if he
has come home, and you are perhaps waiting for him, I can tell you that he will not be back
to-night, nor perhaps to-morrow, for that was the message he sent me by his valet this afternoon.'

'Thank you,' said Stradella. 'But I am not waiting for him. I am expecting my wife and my man.'

He nodded and went back to his beat under the archway, and before he had walked twice the distance
between the gate and the courtyard, all the bells of Rome rang out the first hour of the night.
An hour had passed since Ortensia had let Gambardella out of the little house in the Via di
Santa Sabina.

The peal was still ringing from the belfry of the Lateran when Don Alberto and Tommaso met
on the green behind the church, not far from the closed door of the sacristy. They came from
opposite directions, and Tommaso was leading two saddled mules. The young courtier had succeeded
in making his escape from Queen Christina and her party, promising to join them at supper at
the Palazzo Riario within an hour.

In the lonely little house in Via di Santa Sabina, Ortensia was sitting upstairs by the table,
pale and upright in her chair, and listening for the slightest sound that might break the profound
silence.

But she heard nothing. The three wicks of the brass lamp on the table burned with a steady
flame, and without any of those very faint crepitations which olive-oil lamps make heard when
the weather is about to change. There was not the least sound in the small house: if there
were mice anywhere they were asleep; if worms were boring in the old furniture they were working
silently; if any house swallows had made their nests under the eaves they were roosting. The
stillness was like that of a solid and inert mass, as if all the world had been suddenly petrified
and made motionless.

It seemed to Ortensia that she had never been quite alone for so long a time in her life; it
was certainly true that she had never before been locked up in a lonely house at night without
a human being within call. First, her feet grew strangely cold; then she felt a sort of creeping
fear stealing up to her out of the floor, as if she had drunk hemlock and death were travelling
slowly towards her heart, paralysing every limb and joint on its relentless way.

It was not senseless physical fright, like Pina's; it would not drive her to leave the house
and run away into the darkness outside; if there were anything to face Ortensia would face
it, or try to, but what terrified her now was that there was nothing, not a sound of life,
not the breath of a night breeze amongst leaves outside, not the stirring of a mouse indoors.
It was like the silence of the tomb.

Suddenly she heard bells, but they sounded far off, and all the windows were tightly closed.
She crossed herself with difficulty, and whispered a 'Requiem aeternam' for all Christian souls,
as good Catholics are enjoined to do at the first hour of night. But it was an effort to raise
her hand to her forehead in making the sign; and suddenly, as if in answer to her prayer, she
seemed to hear the Bravo's voice close beside her:--

'"And Judas went out and hanged himself."'

With the energy of a healthy young nature that revolts against supernatural fears, she rose
to her feet and went to one of the windows, of which there were two on each side, looking over
the road and towards the vineyard respectively. She tried the fastenings of the first and moved
them, but she could not do more, though she used all her strength. The frame seemed to be stuck
beyond the possibility of being opened without tools. She went to the next, and the next, till
she had tried all four; then her fear came back, for it was all more like a bad dream than
a reality, and the certainty flashed upon her that the windows had been purposely fastened
with nails or screws to prevent her from looking out.

Gambardella had promised to come back with her husband in twenty minutes. Three times that
interval had now passed, and more too, and she was still alone. It was not possible that any
one should have knocked for admittance without her hearing the sound, for the door of the sitting-room
was open to the stairs, and the house was no bigger than a cottage.

She went back to her chair by the table, ashamed of feeling that she could hardly stand. It
was not strange that her fear of her own situation should be stronger just then than her anxiety
for Stradella, believing, as she did, that Don Alberto had made his plans for that very night,
and thinking, as was natural, that his great power in Rome might even have sufficed to have
her followed from the Lateran, in which case he could well hinder her husband and Gambardella
from joining her, and she would be at his mercy just as if she had gone home to sleep in the
palace.

Tommaso and young Altieri rode quickly away from the illuminated meadow, which was now full
of people who either thronged the overflowing booths, or walked about on the grass laughing
and talking, and waiting till those who were supping should make room for them. The riding
mules of those times were swift and much surer of foot than horses, and it was not long before
the two men reached the rickety wooden gate of the old Jewish cemetery.

Here Tommaso dismounted, and whispering to Don Alberto to do the same, he tied the mules' bridles
to the gate-post, which was still sound. Then he led the way up the hill, and both men trod
so cautiously that when they passed the little house Ortensia did not hear a footfall in the
road through the closed windows. Tommaso did not stop at the house door, however, but led Altieri
on to the next, which was placed in the long wall and gave access to the vineyard. It was not
fastened, and both went in, Tommaso putting his arm through Don Alberto's to guide him and
help him if he stumbled.

The rain on the previous night had softened the earth, and there was a path between the inside
of the wall and the trained vines. They followed this, until they were twenty paces from the
house, when Tommaso stopped.

'The lady is alone in there,' he said, pointing. 'Show me the money.'

Don Alberto was prepared. With his left hand he produced a heavy deerskin purse, and with the
other he drew a long knife from under his cloak. It gleamed in the starlight, and Tommaso saw
it not far from his throat; but with the utmost coolness he took the purse and tried its weight
in his hand, before untying the strings to feel the coins. When he was satisfied, he tied the
purse again and gave it back to Don Alberto, who at once returned his knife to its sheath.

'To satisfy you,' said the old highwayman, 'I have set a ladder against the window of the room
where she is probably waiting, and I have made a small hole through the outer shutter, through
which you can see her. You will then come down the ladder, and I will let you into the house
by the back door, which is open. Before you go in, you will hand me the money, and I will leave
you, after giving you a light. We had better make no noise, lest she should come downstairs.'

'Very well. Take me to the ladder.'

Tommaso now struck through the vines, skirting the angle of the house at some distance, till
he came to the straight walk that led to the back door. Don Alberto was used to night adventures,
and saw the ladder distinctly before he came to it. When they had reached it, walking on tip-toe,
Tommaso planted his foot firmly against the foot of it, so as to hold it steady, and he pointed
to a little ray of light that shone out through the hole in the shutter. Don Alberto nodded
and went up very cautiously. It was one of those long ladders used by Italian vine-dressers
and had heavy rungs very far apart. Tommaso had wound rags round the tops of the side pieces,
so that they should make no noise against the wall. Don Alberto stopped when his head was on
a level with the ray of light, and applying his eye to the hole he saw the beautiful Venetian
sitting motionless by the table. Having satisfied himself that she was within and alone, he
lost no time in coming down, and the rest happened as Tommaso had explained that it should,
except that it did not prove necessary to strike a light; for the back door opened under the
stairs, in the small vestibule, and the door above being open, the lamp in the sitting-room
sent down a glimmer from above that was quite enough to show the way.

At the first sound of steps below Ortensia started to her feet, understanding instantly that
some one had entered the house by stealth, since she herself had put up the chain at the front
door.

For one fatal moment she hesitated and stood motionless. Then, as the footsteps mounted the
little staircase at a run, she sprang to shut the door; but it was too late, for Don Alberto
was already on the threshold. He caught her with one arm and almost lifted her back into the
room, while with the other hand he slammed the door, turned the key, and thrust it into his pocket.

She was struggling wildly in his arms then, but he laughed, as ruthless children do when they
have caught a little bird and can torment it at their will.

'Softly, softly!' he cried. 'You will hurt yourself, my sweet! There, there! You have scratched
your pretty arm already!'

It was true. She had cut her arm against one of the chiselled buttons of his coat, just above
the wrist, and the red drops ran down over his lace wristband. But she felt no pain and she
fought like a tigress against his hold; so far she had uttered no sound, but now her voice
rang out.

'Coward!' she cried suddenly, and with one mad wrench she had her hands at his throat, and
her strong little fingers were almost crushing his windpipe.

He could not hold her now, for she was strangling him; to free himself he let go of her waist
and caught at her wrists to tear her hands away. But her strength was like a strong man's in
that moment, and he could not loosen her hold.

He felt that in another moment she would have strangled him outright, for his eyes were already
starting from his head, and the room swam. With furious violence he twisted himself sideways
and tried to hurl her from him. Even then she did not loosen her desperate grip, but as he
swung her and himself half round, her head struck the wall of the room. Then her hands relaxed
instantly, and as he reeled backwards in regaining his balance, he saw her sink to the floor,
stunned and unconscious.

A crash like thunder broke upon the moment's silence that followed. The window opposite the
table was wide open and shattered, the frame and shutters split to matchwood, the glass in
splinters, and, almost as Don Alberto started and turned round, Trombin sprang into the room
hatless, with his long rapier in his hand, his round blue eyes wide open and glaring like a
wild cat's, his pink cheeks fiery red, and his long yellow hair streaming out from his head
like a mane.

At this terrific and most unexpected vision, young Altieri staggered back towards the locked
door. Trombin advanced upon him slowly, sword in hand, till he was within three paces, looking
more like an avenging demon than a man. Yet when he spoke his voice was calm and steady.

'If it is agreeable to you to draw, sir,' he said, 'I will do you the honour of killing you
like a gentleman. If, on the other hand, as I gather from your attitude, you do not think the
moment propitious for fighting, I will throw you out of the window as I would a lackey who
insulted a lady, sir. Pray choose quickly, sir, before I have counted three, sir, for I am
in haste. One--two--three!'

The last word was scarcely out of his mouth when Trombin dashed forward, and, dropping his
rapier at the same time, threw his arms round the courtier's knees; he flung him over his shoulder
like a sack of flour, ran with him to the open window and dropped him out.

Whether he meant to kill him, or did not care what became of him, is not certain, but Trombin
was a gentleman who generally kept his head, even when he seemed to be most excited; and it
is certain that, instead of falling some four or five yards directly to the ground, Don Alberto
found himself clinging to the ladder halfway down. It turned sideways with his weight, slowly
at first, and fell with a clatter on the drip-stones, when his feet were already touching the
ground. He was dizzy, the tumble had bruised his shins, and he had sprained his hands a little,
but he was otherwise unhurt, and the blood on his wristbands and collar was from the scratch
on Ortensia's arm.

For a few seconds he steadied himself against the corner of the house where he had fallen with
the ladder. Then he began to make his way towards the door in the vineyard wall, and when he
had walked thirty or forty yards he stood still, whistled twice, and waited for an answer.
But none came.

He had, in fact, sent his own valet and a running footman to the Lateran to follow him and
Tommaso, and to note the house they entered. The runner was then to hasten back to the Basilica,
where Don Alberto's coach was waiting, and was to come to the house with it, or to the nearest
point it could reach. The footman was the most famous runner in Roman lackeydom and boasted
that he could always cover a mile in five minutes, up hill and down and over the worst roads,
and in a shorter time on a smooth and level path. As for the coach, it could drive to the very
door of the little house; for the Via di Santa Sabina had always been practicable for vehicles,
because it led to the castle of the Savelli, which was then partly in ruins and partly turned
into a Dominican monastery. So all was well planned, and Don Alberto's valet was to hide near
the last door his master entered in case the latter needed help.

Yet when Altieri whistled softly there was no answer. He went on twenty paces farther and whistled
again, with the same result. He reached the door in the wall, and whistled a third time, peering
into the gloom amongst the vines. At last he went out into the road, determined to go away
on foot and alone, rather than to risk another interview with the quick-tempered man who had
thrown him out of the window.

He went away on foot, indeed, but neither alone nor unaided; for he had no sooner stepped out
of the door than a most unpleasant and unexpected thing happened. To his surprise and mortification,
not to mention the pain he felt, an iron hand caught him by the back of his collar and ran
him down the hill at the double-quick, encouraging his speed with a hearty kick at every third
step or so. He ran by the house in a moment, being positively kicked past the door, and he
ran on to the gate of the Jewish cemetery, whence the mules had now disappeared, and the boot
of his implacable driver almost lifted him off his feet. The hand that held him was like iron,
and the foot felt very like it too. Down the hill he was forced to run, till suddenly, at the
turn near the bottom, where the road is wider, he came upon his own coach on its way up.

Then the kicking ceased indeed, but the hand did not relax its hold, while the coachman stopped
his horses at the sound of quick footsteps just ahead. An instant later Don Alberto's tormentor
had opened the coach, flung him up inside, and slammed the door on him.

'Palazzo Altieri!' cried a voice the courtier had heard only once before. 'Be quick! Your master
is ill!'

The running footman had already dropped to the ground from behind, and was at the open carriage
window in an instant, springing upon the step for orders. But Don Alberto was exhausted and
had sunk back in the cushioned seat, panting for breath and aching, not only in every joint,
but elsewhere.

'Home!' he managed to say, as he saw the footman's head at the window.

There was just room in the road to turn, and a few seconds later the carriage was rumbling
along over the bad road towards the paved streets of the city, while its only inmate slowly
recovered his breath and made attempts in the dark to repair the disorder of his dress before
he reached his palace. But that was not easy, for he had dropped his cloak in the struggle
with Ortensia and had lost his hat in falling with the ladder; moreover, his collar and wristbands
were covered with blood, and his usually smooth hair looked like a wild man's. Last, and perhaps
least in his estimation, he had given a thousand crowns, in the shape of two hundred and fifty
gold ducats of Naples, for the pleasure of being half-strangled by a young woman, thrown out
of the window by her rescuer, and finally kicked downhill for a distance of at least two hundred
and fifty yards by an unseen boot. As an equivalent for so much money these mishaps were unsatisfactory;
but what the sufferer now most desired was to save some remnant of his dignity before his servants,
and then to be avenged on those who had so signally frustrated his plans.

He was disappointed in the first of these wishes, at all events, for when he was helped from
his carriage by the porter and the running footman at the foot of the grand staircase, he found
himself face to face with Alessandro Stradella, who was as pale as his own collar and half
mad with anxiety. One glance told the musician that Altieri had been worsted in an adventure,
which, he was sure, could only be accounted for by Ortensia's disappearance.

'Where is my wife?' asked Stradella, standing in the way on the step.

Don Alberto was surprised and angry, and his shame at being seen in such plight, in his own
house, overcame any prudence or self-control he had left. Besides, he felt himself sufficiently
defended by his servants.

'Your wife?' he said, trying to push Stradella aside. 'She is in a little house near the Lateran,
with her lover!'

'Liar!'

With the ringing insult, the Sicilian's open hand struck Don Alberto such a blow across the
face that he staggered back against the carriage step, the blood spurting from his nose and lips.

But almost at the same instant Gaetano, the big porter, and the athletic footman threw themselves
bodily upon Stradella, shouting for help at the same time. Stablemen and grooms came running
from the courtyard at the cry, and the singer was overpowered in a few moments, though he struggled
fiercely, not so much for his freedom as to strike Don Alberto again.

'Call the watch,' said the latter, staunching his blood with a lace handkerchief as well as
he could. 'You are all witnesses. He can be taken to Tor di Nona in my carriage.'

Thereupon, with more dignity than might have been expected of a young dandy in such a condition,
he turned and went slowly up the broad stone stairs, holding his handkerchief to his mouth.
He expected his valet to meet him at his door, but the man was not there: as a matter of fact
he was then lying on his back on a tombstone in the Jewish cemetery, bound hand and foot, and
securely gagged; and while he contemplated the stars, he felt much too cool for his comfort.
For Gambardella had come upon him lurking near the door in the wall, after Tommaso had passed
with Altieri, and the Bravo had made short work of his liberty, returning to the door in the
wall just in time to catch Don Alberto as he came out.

Don Alberto's commands were law at all times in his father's palace, and on the present occasion
the wrath of the whole establishment was on his side. Moreover, to strike the nephew of both
Popes in the face and call him a liar was an offence which would have sent the noblest patrician
in Rome to a dungeon in Sant' Angelo, if not to the galleys of Cività Vecchia.

It was therefore not surprising that Stradella should find himself in Tor di Nona within the
hour, solidly chained to the wall in a dark cell; and so he was left to reflect upon the consequences
of his rashness, though not to regret it, if indeed his gnawing anxiety for Ortensia left him
room to think of anything else.

CHAPTER XXII

When Trombin had dropped Don Alberto upon the ladder, to take the chances of a bad fall, he
looked down to see what happened, and being satisfied that the courtier was not much hurt,
he turned at once to Ortensia; for if young Altieri had broken his neck, it might have been
necessary to hasten what was to take place next. As for anything the courtier might do on the
spur of the moment, Trombin knew that Gambardella and Tommaso were in the vineyard, ready to
stop any mischief.

Ortensia was lying by the wall where she had fallen, but was regaining consciousness, for her
limbs stirred now and then, and as the Bravo looked at her she opened her eyes and turned her head.

'Coward!' she said faintly, as what had happened began to dawn upon her and the recollection
of the furious struggle came back. 'Coward!' she repeated, closing her eyes as Trombin dropped
beside her on one knee.

'I have thrown him out of the window,' he said quietly.

She opened her eyes wide now, stared at him and recognised him, though as in a dream. Then
she tried to raise herself on her elbow, and instantly he helped her; and feeling the strength
of his arm, she got upon her feet, though with more assistance from him than she knew. He led
her to a stiff little sofa at the other end of the room, picked up Don Alberto's cloak, rolled
it into a pillow for her, and made her lie down. She had almost lost consciousness again with
the effort of walking so far.

He saw the deep scratch on her arm, from which a few drops of blood were still slowly oozing,
and he fetched a basin with cold water and a towel from the bedroom, and bathed the slight
wound, binding it up afterwards with his lawn handkerchief, for he was skilled in such matters.
Ortensia smiled faintly, without opening her eyes; but he, with the strangest expression in
the world, drew in his lips till his mouth almost disappeared; and he fixed his round eyes
on the shapely arm he was dressing, and touched it with a sort of wonder. For there was a secret
side of his character which even his friend Gambardella did not know, any more than Trombin
knew his companion's own love-story.

When Trombin said that he was a susceptible creature, full of sentiment, he was telling the
truth, though his friend had never believed it. He loved all women in general, and seemed able
to love a number of them in particular in close succession. Gambardella saw this, and exercised
his wit upon the weakness; but what he never saw and could not guess was that his fellow-cut-throat
was as shy and timid as a schoolboy in the presence of his sweetheart for the time being, whether
she were of low degree or of the burgher class, above which Trombin had never aspired till
he had seen Ortensia. The reckless Bravo, the perpetrator of a score of atrocious crimes, the
absolutely intrepid swordsman, would blush like a girl, and stand speechless and confused when
he was alone for the first time with a pretty girl or a buxom dame whose mere side-glance made
the blood tingle in his neck. Moreover, many women know that there are plenty of such men in
the world; and I dare say that more than one man may read these lines who has faced the extremest
danger without a quickened pulse, but has collapsed like a scared child before a girl of eighteen
or a cool-handed widow of eight-and-twenty. Oddly enough, those are not the men whom women
love least, explain it how you will.

So Trombin, who had talked of carrying off Ortensia with even more assurance than Don Alberto
himself, and had just found her senseless on the floor after he had put her assailant to flight,
could no more have had the boldness to kiss the white arm he was dressing so tenderly and skilfully
than young Altieri had found courage to fight him when he had suddenly appeared through the
window, rapier in hand and glaring like a panther.

Meanwhile Ortensia came quite to herself, looked at him quietly, and thanked him.

'Where is he gone?' she asked, for she had not realised what he had said when he had first
answered her.

As he met her eyes Trombin's white forehead blushed, and he stepped back, taking away the basin
and towel he had used in washing her wound.

'Out of the window, gracious lady,' he said, as he disappeared into the next room.

'Out of the window!' cried Ortensia in astonishment. 'Is he dead?'

'No, alive and well,' answered Trombin from the distance. 'But I hear something at this very
moment,' he added, coming back empty-handed and trying the front window, as if he did not know
that it was fastened with nails.

He laid his ear to the crack, and held out one hand to keep Ortensia silent.

'Yes,' he whispered an instant later, loud enough for her to hear. 'Yes--it is the sound of
kicking and running--some one is kicking some one else down the hill--it is gone now!'

He stood upright again and looked round at Ortensia, whose face betrayed her anxiety, now that
she was fully conscious.

'Who can it be?' she asked.

'Most gentle lady,' answered Trombin, 'I do not know, but I suspect, pray, hope, and inwardly
believe that the patient, if I may so call him, was Don Alberto, and the kicker was very likely
my friend Gambardella.'

'But you were to have brought my husband here! Your friend told me so!'

Ortensia's memory came back completely at Gambardella's name, and she slipped her feet from
the sofa to the floor and sat up suddenly. Trombin was, of course, prepared for the question
with a plausible story, but he could never count on his presence of mind when he was in love
and alone for the first time with the object of his affections.

'Madam,' he answered, 'the truth is--or, as I may say, the facts in the case are----' he stammered
and stopped, for the lovely Venetian had risen and was beside him already, her frightened eyes
very near his, and her hand on his sleeve. His heart beat like a scared bird's and his head
was whirling.

'Where is my husband?' cried Ortensia in wild anxiety. 'Something has happened to him, and
you are afraid to tell me! For heaven's sake----'

It had never been in Trombin's nature to be rough with a woman. In the two or three cases in
which he had been concerned in 'removing' a lady, obnoxious to her husband or relations, he
had been accused by his companion of being soft-hearted; but while Ortensia was speaking he
was in such a state of rapt adoration that he quite forgot to listen to what she said; and
instead of answering when she waited for his reply, he took the hand that lay on his sleeve
in his, with such a gentle and sympathetic touch that she did not resist, even when he raised
it to his ridiculous little mouth and kissed it delicately, with an air of respectful devotion
that would not have offended a saint.

Nor was Ortensia offended; but she was frightened out of her mind by his manner, for it was
as if he were already condoling with her, and offering his faithful service, before telling
her the awful truth.

'He is dead!' she cried, breaking from him and pressing both hands to her temples in mad grief.

She would have fallen against the table, if Trombin had not caught her and held her up. He
understood instantly how she had mistaken his action, and what the question had been which
he had not heard.

'No, no!' he cried energetically. 'He is alive and well! He insisted on going back to the palace
to wait for Don Alberto when he came home from the Lateran to catch you in your rooms! Instead,
the villain tracked you here and got in. It was Tommaso's fault for leaving the back door open
to the vineyard, and Altieri fastened it inside, so I broke in through the window to save you!
We had nailed all the windows fast for your safety!'

Ortensia leaned back against the table and looked straight at him. He could tell the most amazing
untruths with perfect coolness, but just now he was so very near the truth that his worst enemy
would have believed him. Untruthful people often have a shifty glance, but the truly accomplished
liar is he whose clear and limpid eye meets yours trustfully and sadly, while he tells you
falsehoods that would make the Father of Lies himself look grave. The immediate result of Trombin's
words was that Ortensia could almost have thrown her arms round his neck in her joy.

'Take me to him!' she cried, forgetting everything else. 'Take me to him! Come!' She tried
to drag him towards the door in her haste, but he quietly resisted her.

'We must wait for Gambardella,' he said. 'Besides, you will have to trust your husband to settle
matters with Don Alberto without you. He is far more likely to be prudent if they meet alone
than if you are beside him----'

Ortensia's face fell, for she saw that Trombin did not mean to let her leave the house at once.

'But Don Alberto can do anything,' she pleaded, with clear foresight of Stradella's temper
and consequent danger. 'My husband will accuse him, and will be furiously angry! He will not
hesitate to strike him, or to fight him in his own house! And then Don Alberto will have him
imprisoned!'

It was, in fact, what was about to happen, and what Trombin himself expected. On the other
hand, Don Alberto knew very well where the house was to which he had been taken by Tommaso,
for he was a Roman, and every yard of the road was familiar to him. Within less than an hour
it was more than likely that he would send a force of sbirri to besiege the house, men who
would not hesitate to break down the doors if they were not admitted, and by no means so easy
to frighten away as the clumsily armed watchmen whom the Bravi had put to flight. The only
possible safety for the Bravi lay in leaving the place with Ortensia before such a thing happened.
The post-carriage in which Trombin meant to carry her off that very night was waiting not far
away in charge of a well-paid stable hand, and Tommaso and Gambardella had only to bring it
to the door. The stableman was then to take back the two mules, and the coach would leave the
city at once, by Porta San Lorenzo, while Ortensia would suppose that she was being taken to
the Palazzo Altieri or to some new place of safety. By degrees, other excursionists, leaning
over the railing, began to catch at something spicy in the situation of these two sisters
brought face to face. At Mrs. Cronney's sally, one of the funny men guffawed his approval. Groups
of excursionists explained to each other that that lady down there, her on the wharf, in the
brown, was own sister to Mrs. Josiah Tuttle!
The whistle of the Fall of Rome now sounded for all aboard. It was
a dramatic moment, the possibilities of which suddenly gripped Mrs.
Tinneray.

All this might succeed easily enough by the liberal use of money, and under the protection
of the pardons and passports the two cut-throats had in their possession; but it was clear
that no time was to be lost, and while Trombin's gaze lingered on Ortensia's lovely face, he
was anxiously listening for his friend's knock below, and he did not even attempt to answer
her last speech with reassuring words.

'We cannot move without Gambardella,' he said, speaking in a low tone now, lest any sound from
without should escape his hearing.

It came a moment later, and Trombin hastened to the door at the head of the stairs; it was
locked, however, and the key was in Don Alberto's pocket, as Ortensia quickly explained. But
such a trifle as an ordinary door that was fastened was not likely to stop a man who had lately
smashed in a strong window-frame with his fists and his shoulder. He drew back one step, raised
his heel to the level of the lock, and smashed it as if it had been made of egg-shells. The
door flew open and he ran down the steps to undo the chain. Seeing that her shadow kept the
light from the stairs and the vestibule, Ortensia drew back on one side of the entrance, expecting
that Trombin would come up at once with Gambardella. Instead, the two stood talking in low
tones on the threshold of the front door.

In a few moments it was clear to Ortensia that some disagreement had arisen between the friends.
Their voices grew a little louder, so that Ortensia could hear about half of what they said.
It was clear that Gambardella was refusing to do something which Trombin insisted with rising
temper, while the other grew colder and more obstinate every moment.

'Altieri's thousand crowns,' she heard Gambardella say distinctly; and then, in broken words,
'... more than enough ... morning ... the Neapolitan frontier ... leave her here ...'

'Judas!' cried Trombin very audibly, and clearly in a rage.

'At your service,' answered Gambardella, 'and instead of thirty pieces of silver, I fling a
thousand in your face! You shall not have her!'

Ortensia heard a sort of chinking thud, as if a heavy purse had fallen on the stones. This
was instantly followed by a scuffle, and she knew that the two men had closed and were wrestling.
The whole truth had flashed upon her through the few words they had exchanged, or enough of
it to prove that young Altieri had not calumniated the men she had thought her friends when
he had called them Bravi.

Her heart stood still for an instant, while she looked round for some means of escape. No sound
of voices now came up from below, but only the shuffling of feet and the hard-drawn breath
of men wrestling in the dark. She ran to the window and looked out, thinking that the ladder
was still there, and then, seeing that it was gone, she peered into the gloom. Perhaps she
could let herself down by her hands and then drop to the ground. At any moment one of the Bravi
might come up again and seize her.

She listened for a moment before trying it. The sound of the struggle had ceased, and all was
still again; very cautiously she crept to the door and listened again, but there was not a
breath. She ventured to look down the stairs, keeping her body on one side, and she saw that
the vestibule was empty, and now her quick hearing caught the sound of shuffling footsteps
in the road outside; the noise was decreasing already, as if the two men were moving down the
hill in their furious fight. The house was empty for a moment, Trombin had spoken of a back
door opening to the vineyard, and she saw her chance. 

"Tell Free as you're passing that I'm staying here too," said Stanse.

"We must eat, for all that," said Zalia; and she hung the potatoes over the fire.

Then she went to milk the goat and take it its food. It was bright as day outside and quiet, so
very quiet, with still some of the heat of the sun lingering in the air, which weighed sultrily.
She crept into the dark goat-house, put down the pot with the food
and started milking.

"Betje, Betje, Zeen is so ill; Zeen may be dying, Betje!"

She always clacked to her goat like that. Two streams of milk came clattering in turns into the
little pail.

People came: Treze and Mite's little girl, with a lantern, and Barbara Dekkers, who had also
come to have a look.

"I'm here," said Zalia, "I've done, I'm coming at once."

They stood talking a bit outside in the moonlight and then went in.

"Perhaps
my man'll come on," said Treze. "A man is better than three women
in illness; and Virginie's coming too: I've been to tell her."

"Well,
well," said Barbara, "who'd ever have thought it of Zeen!"

"Yes,
friends, and never been ill in his life; and he turned seventy."

Stanse
mashed the potatoes; Zalia poured a drain of milk over them and hung
them over the fire again.

"Have you all had your suppers?" she asked.

"Yes,"
said Treze and Barbara and Mite.

"I haven't," said Stanse.

Zalia
turned the steaming potato-mash into an earthen porringer and she
and Stanse sat down to it. The others drank a fresh bowl of coffee.

They
were silent.

The door opened and from behind the screen came a great
big fellow with a black beard:

"What's up here? A whole gathering
of people: is it harvest-treat to-day, Zalia? Why, here's Barbara
and Mite and...."

"Warten, Zeen is ill."

"Zeen?... Ill?" Cucurullo, who had been prepared for trouble, bowed
his head, and said he would wait outside till morning. Gaetano offered, as a great favour,
to take the things he carried and hide them in his lodge, a kindness which Cucurullo readily
accepted.

As for Ortensia, she did not know where she had been, and it was not till she had wandered
for hours in the desolate regions between Santa Maria in Cosmedin, San Gregorio, and the Colosseum,
that she at last struck into the Campo Vaccino, which was the open field under which the Roman
Forum then lay buried. By the first faint light she recognised the tower of the Capitol, and
in less than a quarter of an hour after that she found Cucurullo sitting on one of the stone
chain-posts outside the Palazzo Altieri, his two long legs hanging down almost to the pavement,
and his humped body looking like a large ball covered with a short brown cloak, and surmounted
by a servant's high-crowned black felt hat with a wide brim. He was not asleep, for he hardly
ever slept, and he knew his mistress's light step before he saw her at his elbow. In a moment
he had explained what had happened, as far as he knew the truth, from the moment when he had
left her getting into the carriage with Gambardella.

Her mind was made up in a flash; she would go directly to the Pope himself, and if he would
not see her, she would insist on seeing Cardinal Paluzzo Altieri. He would not refuse her an
audience, if she sent up her name with a message to say that she had found something of great
value that belonged to him. As for taking any rest before going to the Quirinal, she literally
had not where to lay her head; but she was young and strong, and would not realise how tired
she was till the strain of her anxiety was over, and she was borne up by love, which is quite
the most wonderful elixir in the world against all weariness of mind or body. Nevertheless
she leaned on Cucurullo's arm as they climbed the ascent, for it was very steep, and the last
part of it was the long flight of steps which still leads up from the Tre Cannelle and comes
out close to the little church of San Silvestro, where the great and good Vittoria Colonna
once met Michelangelo.

The doors of the Quirinal Palace were opened at sunrise, and two sentries of the Swiss Guard
paced up and down before the entrance, their breastplates and halberds gleaming in the morning
sun. They did not stop Ortensia, who saw their sergeant standing just within, very magnificent
in his full-dress uniform; for it was the Feast of Saint John, and Midsummer Day, and one of
the great festivals of the year, though not so solemn a one as that of Saint Peter which comes
five days later, on the twenty-ninth.

The Swiss sergeant was gravely civil and answered Ortensia as politely as he could, considering
how imperfectly he knew the Italian language. His Holiness? No. The Pope was far from well
and had not left his room for a week. His Eminence? It might be possible in an hour. The Cardinal
was an early riser, and was to pontificate at high mass in the Lateran. The sergeant could
send a soldier to the major domo's office by and by, but no one would be stirring upstairs
for at least another hour. The gracious lady seemed tired; would she wait in the sergeant's
own room? It was at her disposal.

Ortensia accepted gratefully, and the big, fair-haired, wooden-faced Swiss opened the door
for her, pointed to a sort of settle on which she could rest, and told Cucurullo to wait in
the guard-room. The sergeant himself would call her as soon as the major-domo's office was
open. He saluted her with stiff politeness and went away.

Even then she did not realise that she was tired, and instead of stretching herself on the
settee, as she might have done, she sat bolt upright on the edge of it, staring at the door
that had just been shut, as if she expected the sergeant to come back at once. Yet she was
not conscious of the passage of time, and her intense anxiety centred in her coming interview
with the Cardinal rather than in any present longing for the sergeant's quick return. In her
mind she went over what she was going to say, and tried to put together the Cardinal's probable
replies. She meant to ask for immediate liberty for her husband, or immediate imprisonment
for herself with him. Nothing could be simpler; if the great man refused to grant either, leaving
her at liberty, she would risk everything and appeal to the Venetian Ambassador.

She had not changed her position once in three-quarters of an hour when the door opened again,
and the sergeant most respectfully invited her to go with him. His Eminence had been informed
that she was below and wished to see her at once. She remembered nothing after that, till she
found herself in a small sunny room hung with red damask and furnished in the same colour.
The Cardinal sat in a high-backed chair at a magnificent polished writing-table, on which stood
a crucifix having the sacred figure carved apparently from a single gigantic amethyst; the
inkstand, pen-tray, and sand-boxes were also gilt, and made a glittering show in the bright
sunshine that poured through the open window.

Cardinal Altieri was a grey-haired man with steely eyes set near together, the strong lean
face of a fighter, and the colourless complexion of most high ecclesiastics, who are generally
what the physicians of that day called 'saturnians.' He held out a large, hard, white hand,
with a ring in which was set an engraved amethyst, Ortensia touch the stone with her lips,
and he motioned to her to be seated in a comfortable chair at his left.

'I know everything,' he said quietly. 'I always do.'

The comprehensiveness of this sweeping statement might have made Ortensia smile at any other
time. But she was staggered by it now, and forgot the speech she had prepared. On the face
of it, to tell anything to a man who knew everything was superfluous. She reflected a moment,
and he took advantage of her silence to speak again in the same calm tone.

'You sent me word that you had found something of value belonging to me, madam. I shall be
glad to receive it, but, in the first place, I have the honour of returning to you some of
your own property, which you left last night in a little house in the Via di Santa Sabina.'

As he spoke the last words he put down his right hand on the side away from her and brought
up a long veil, a silver hairpin, and one white doeskin glove all together.

'That is all, I believe,' he said, with a very faint smile. 'If you left anything else there,
I will order a more careful search to be made. I may add that there were stains of blood on
the floor and one of the walls, and as you do not appear to be wounded, madam, the inference
is----'

Before he could explain his inference, Ortensia stretched out her arm from beneath the cloak
she wore, and showed him that it was bound up in a blood-stained handkerchief; for the small
cut had been deep. With her other hand she took the purse from within her dress and held it
out to the Cardinal.

'A thousand crowns in gold ducats,' she said, 'which your Eminence's nephew paid two Bravi
for the privilege of giving me this scratch. But they cheated him and drove him away and then
quarrelled, and fought about which should have me for his share. I escaped from the house while
they were fighting outside, I stepped on this purse and I picked it up, being sure that the
money belonged to you, and there it is! In return, I ask for my husband's liberty.'

She saw from his face that he was much surprised, and that what she had just told him had produced
a decided effect in her favour; for it is almost needless to say that the account of the affair
which Don Alberto had dictated to his secretary and had sent to his uncle late on the previous
evening gave a very different view of the case. According to the young man, Ortensia had met
him of her own accord, deliberately enticing him into an ambush from which he had barely escaped
with his life, only to be insulted and struck in the face by her husband, who was, of course,
acquainted with the whole plan.

The Cardinal examined the purse minutely, then opened it and looked at the contents. He guessed
that the value of the gold must be about a thousand crowns, as Ortensia had said it was. This loss
of traction was of course highly undesirable and generally disqualified the use of 4-wheel
trucks for freight engines.

What was needed was a truck which would guide the 0-6-0's and 0-8-0's around curves and yet leave
the greater portion of the weight on the drivers. The 2-wheel, or pony, truck met these requirements.[17]

Levi
Bissell produced the basic patent for such a truck in 1857. Zerah Colburn in September of that
year had suggested to Bissell that he develop a 2-wheel truck. Such a device, he believed, would
be well received in Britain.[18] He was quite correct, as will shortly
be seen.

In nearly every respect Bissell's 2-wheel truck (see fig. 7) followed
the idea of the original patent for the 4-wheel truck, which he claimed
as the basis for the present invention. All I ask is my husband's liberty.'

'Your husband, madam, appears to have broken my nephew's nose,' replied the Cardinal, with
the utmost gravity. 'Moreover, Alberto is not only my own nephew by blood, but His Holiness's
also, both in fact, as the son of the Pope's niece, Donna Lucia, and also by formal adoption.
I doubt whether His Holiness will easily overlook such an offence. To break the nose of a Pope's
nephew, madam, is a serious matter. I would have you understand that.'

'Then send me to prison with my husband!' cried Ortensia desperately.

The Cardinal slowly rubbed his pale chin with his amethyst ring, and looked at her.

'There may be an alternative to that somewhat extreme course,' he observed. 'Calm yourself,
I beg of you, and I will see His Holiness as soon as possible. In the meantime, it would be
well for you to take some rest.'

'Rest!' Ortensia exclaimed. 'How can I rest while he is in prison, unless I can be near him?'

'I cannot see the connection of ideas,' the Cardinal answered coldly.

He looked at her with some curiosity, for he had never been in love with anything but power
since he had first gone to school.

He rang a gilt bell that stood beside the gilt inkstand, and a grey-haired priest, still unshaven
and shabbily dressed, came at the call. His face was as yellow as common beeswax, and his little
eyes were bloodshot. The Cardinal pushed the purse across the polished mahogany.

'Count that money,' he said briefly, and opening the drawer of the table he took out a sheet
of paper and began to write, while the shabby secretary counted out the gold in the palm of
his hand, as if he were used to doing it.

The letter was not long, and the Cardinal read it over to himself with evident care before
folding it. He even smiled faintly, as he had done when he had returned Ortensia's things.
He turned in the top and bottom of the sheet so that the edges just met, and after creasing
the bends with his large pale thumb-nail he doubled the folded paper neatly, and then turned
up the ends and slipped one into the other.

'Seal it with a wafer when you have done counting,' he said, tossing the letter to the priest,
for he detested the taste of sealing-wafers, and, moreover, thought that the red colouring
matter in them was bad for the stomach. 'How much money is there?' he asked, seeing that the
secretary had finished his task.

'Two hundred and fifty gold ducats, Eminence,' answered the latter, and his dirty crooked fingers
poured the gold back into the leathern purse.

When that was done, and the wet wafer had been slipped into its place and pressed, the secretary
handed the letter to the Cardinal for him to address it. Instead of doing so at once, however,
he turned to Ortensia, who had been watching the proceedings in silent anxiety.

'Madam,' the great man began, in a suave tone, 'knowing everything, as I do, you may well imagine
that I am anxious to spare you the grief of seeing your husband condemned to the galleys.'

'The galleys!' cried Ortensia in extreme terror. 'Merciful heavens!'

The Cardinal went on speaking with the utmost coolness and without heeding her emotion.

'If what my nephew believed last night could be proved true, madam, your husband's neck would
be in great danger, and you yourself would probably spend several years in a place of solitude
and penance.'

Ortensia's horror increased, and she could no longer speak.

'Yes, madam,' continued the Cardinal inexorably, 'I have no hesitation in saying so. My nephew
believed that you and your husband had purposely enticed him to a clandestine meeting with
you, in order to have him thrown out of a window, at the imminent risk of his life, and otherwise
maltreated by hired ruffians. It was little short of a miracle that he reached his home alive,
and he had no sooner stepped from his carriage than your husband put the finishing stroke to
the series of atrocities by breaking his nose. I do not say that this was a blow at the Church,
madam, but it was a violent blow at the authority of the Pope's government. I take it that
a blow which can break a man's nose is a violent blow. That is the argument for the prosecution.'

Ortensia stared wildly at the colourless face and the steely eyes that met her own.

'Happily,' the Cardinal went on, after a short but impressive pause, 'my nephew does not know
everything. There are some arguments for the defence: that purse is a good one, madam, and
the wound you have received is better; my own universal knowledge fills the lacunæ that are
left, so far as concerns what happened at the house in Via di Santa Sabina. Two Bravi, who
have undertaken to murder you, thought they could earn an additional thousand crowns by selling
you to my nephew, whose admiration for you is unhappily a matter of notoriety. Their plan was
then to drive him away, after which one of them was to carry you off, while the other remained
behind to murder your husband. Fortunately for you they quarrelled, you made your escape, and
your excellent good sense made you come directly to me, which, in the case of a lady of your
noble birth, is a clear proof of innocence. Moreover, I know it to be true that the two Bravi
were found fighting desperately in the street during the night, but when the watch fell upon
them to separate them they turned their swords against the officers of the law and sent the
cowardly pack flying, though not one of the fellows had anything worse than a pin-prick to
show. Your former friends are very accomplished swordsmen, madam! That is the argument for
your defence, and it satisfies me.'

'Thank heaven!' exclaimed Ortensia, whose face had relaxed while he had been speaking. 'Then
my husband will be let out, after all!'

'That depends on His Holiness, not on me,' answered the churchman. 'It may depend on your husband
himself. Your friends'--he emphasised the word with a cool smile--'your friends the Bravi are
responsible for everything except my nephew's broken nose, but that is a serious matter enough.
Bertini'--he turned to the secretary--'you may go. I wished you to hear what I have just said.
Order one of my own chairs to be ready to take this lady to the palace in five minutes.'

Bertini bowed and left the room. It was not until the door was shut that the Cardinal spoke again.

'His Holiness expressed to me only last night his august desire to hear your husband sing,
and regretted his inability to go to the Lateran for that purpose. His Holiness has now spent
a good night and it may be hoped that he will be able to rise this afternoon. Your husband
shall have an opportunity of singing to him before supper. That is all I can manage for him.
He must do the rest.'

'Thank you, thank you!' cried Ortensia gratefully. 'Only----'

'What, madam?'

'How will he be able to sing, after such a night, if he is kept in prison? He will have a sore
throat from the dampness, he will be worn out with anxiety, and weak for want of food! What
chance can he possibly have of moving the Pope to pity?'

'I have attended to that, madam,' the Cardinal answered, tapping the letter that lay under
his hand. 'The Maestro shall lack nothing which can restore his strength and his voice.'

He rang his little bell twice in quick succession, and at the same time he wrote an address
on the folded paper. A man in black entered before he had finished. Then he scattered red sand
on the writing, and poured it back into the sand-box.

'To Tor di Nona,' he said. 'Tell the messenger to gallop.'

The man was gone in an instant.

'You will find a chair downstairs,' the churchman said. 'The men are to take you to your apartment
in my palace.'

'But if the porter----' Ortensia began to object.

'He will hardly venture to turn my liveries from my own door, madam. Go to your rooms and rest.
You will find that your maid has left you. She fled in terror last night, and left Rome an
hour ago in the coach for Naples. I saw no reason for having her stopped, but if she has robbed
you I will have her taken. Your husband has a queer hunch-backed man-servant called Cucurullo;
he looks like Guidi, I remember, the young poet who ran away from our royal guest the other day.'

The Cardinal smiled vaguely, and rubbed his chin with his ring.

'He is downstairs,' Ortensia said. 'He is a good creature,' she added quickly, fearing lest
the great man was about to tell her something to Cucurullo's discredit.

'An excellent fellow,' the Cardinal assented readily. 'I was going to say that if your husband
wished to part with him, I should be glad to take him into my service. You will not suspect
me of entertaining any foolish superstition about the good fortune which hunchbacks are supposed
to bring with them, I am sure! That is ridiculous. Besides, I would not for the world displease
the poor fellow, if my suggestion were not agreeable to him, as well as to your husband, madam,
believe me!'

Even in her anxiety Ortensia was inclined to smile, for it was clear that the master of Rome
believed in the deformed man's supernatural gift as profoundly as any beggar in the street
who tried to touch the hump unnoticed.

'I will speak with my husband about it,' Ortensia said. 'Only let me see him,' she added, in
a pleading tone.

'For the present, madam, I have done all I can, except to promise you that if His Holiness
is well enough to hear the Maestro sing, you shall be present. Meanwhile, you must go home,
and remain in your rooms till I send for you.'

He held out his ring for her to kiss, and she saw that she must go.

'I thank your Eminence with all my heart,' she said, and with a deep courtesy she turned and
left the room.

Her heart was lighter than when she had entered it, for though she did not like the Cardinal,
who was liked by few, she could not help believing that he was in earnest in all he had said,
and really meant to give Stradella the only chance left to him of escaping some heavy penalty
for his hastiness. But she longed to see him more than ever, and to repeat all she had just
heard exactly as it had been said.

As she retraced her steps from the study to the stairs, accompanied by a servant who showed
her the way, she looked about her in surprise, for she had not the slightest recollection of
anything she now saw, and was amazed at the distance she had traversed without noticing anything.
She could have sworn that she had gone up by an ordinary staircase, but instead, it was a winding
one, and everything else she saw surprised her in the same way.

Cucurullo was standing beside the large sedan chair with the four porters who wore the Cardinal's
livery of scarlet and gold. Two of them were to carry her, while one walked before and the
fourth followed behind, both the latter being ready to take their turns as bearers at regular
intervals.

When they reached the palace a quarter of an hour later, they did not even pause at the lodge,
and it was with considerable astonishment that Gaetano saw Ortensia enter in such state, followed
by Cucurullo, who smiled pleasantly as he passed.

Ortensia stepped from the chair at her own door and thanked the men, for she had nothing to
give them; but the hunchback always had money, and when he had unlocked the door he handed
them a silver florin with an air as grand as if he had been at least the seneschal of the palace.

Ortensia went on to the sitting-room, still almost unconscious of being tired; but she had
hardly entered, followed closely by Cucurullo, when her knees suddenly gave way under her,
her head swam, and she had barely time to stagger to the long sofa before she fainted away,
utterly worn out with fatigue and emotion.

She came to herself before long, and Cucurullo was leaning over her and cooling her forehead
and temples with a handkerchief soaked with Felsina water. But she only sighed as she recognised
him, and then he saw that she fell peacefully asleep, just as she lay. He drew the blinds closer
together to darken the room, and went off to shave himself and restore his usually neat and
clean appearance, which had suffered somewhat during a whole night spent out of doors.

But Ortensia was outwardly in a far worse plight as she lay sleeping on the hard sofa, for
her pretty silk skirt was soiled and torn at the edges, her little kid shoes were splashed
with mud, covered with dust, and half worn out by her walking in rough places; the blood-stained
handkerchief on her arm told its own tale, too, and her glorious hair was all disordered and
tangled. Yet, somehow, she was not a whit less beautiful than when she had left the house with
her husband on the previous afternoon fresh from Pina's skilful hands.

She was dreaming of Stradella now, after she had been asleep more than four hours, and the
sun outside was high and hot. It was not a vision of terror, either, or of tormenting anxiety;
she thought he had come back to her, and that it had all been a mistake, or a bad dream within
the present sweet one; for he was just the same as when she had seen him last, his gaze was
clear and loving, his touch was tender, and when his lips met hers----

She awoke with a startled cry of joy, and it was all true; for he was kneeling beside her,
and she felt his kiss before her eyes opened to see themselves in his. It had all been a bad
dream that had turned to a sweet one and ended in the delicious truth. He had not left her
since she had rested there, on that same sofa after dinner, and they had not yet been to the
Lateran--it was still yesterday.

Then she remembered, and put down her feet to the pavement as she sat up in his arms, and framed
his face in her hands, pushing it a little away from her to see it better.

No; he was himself, his straight dark hair was neatly combed, his cheek was smooth and fresh
and cool, his collar was spotless and lay over his dark coat just as it always did. She was
either still asleep and dreaming, or she had dreamed every terror she remembered. To be sure
that she was awake, she opened and shut her eyes several times very quickly, and then gazed
at him in sweet surprise.

'Beloved, am I awake? I do not understand----'

Instead of answering her in words, he kissed her again, and the long thrill that made her quiver
from head to foot told her that she was indeed awake. 

They all despaired of obtaining it from the coalesced powers, whilst they had a gang of professed
regicides at their head; and several of the least desperate republicans would have joined with
better men to shake them wholly off, and to produce something more ostensible, if they had
not been reiteratedly told that their sole hope of peace was the very contrary to what they
naturally imagined: that they must leave off their cabals and insurrections,
which could serve no purpose but to bring in that royalty which was
wholly rejected by the coalesced kings; that, to satisfy them, they
must tranquilly, if they could not cordially, submit themselves to
the tyranny and the tyrants they despised and abhorred.

Peace was held out by the allied monarchies to the people of France,
as a bounty for supporting the Republic of Regicides.

In fact, a coalition, begun for the avowed purpose of destroying that den of robbers, now exists
only for their support.

If evil happens to the princes of Europe from the success and stability
of this infernal business, it is their own absolute crime.

We are to understand, however, (for sometimes so the author hints,)
that something stable in the Constitution of Regicide was required
for our amity with it; but the noble Remarker is no more solicitous
about this point than he is for the permanence of the whole body of
his October speculations.

"If," says he, speaking of the Regicide, "they can obtain a practicable constitution, even for
a limited period of time, they will be in a condition to reestablish
the accustomed relations of peace and amity."

Pray let us leave this bush-fighting. What is meant by a limited period of time? Does it mean
the direct contrary to the terms, an unlimited period?

If it is a limited period, what limitation does he fix as a ground
for his opinion?

Otherwise, his limitation is unlimited. If he only requires a constitution that will last while the
treaty goes on, ten days' existence will satisfy his demands.

He knows that France never did want a practicable constitution, nor
a government, which endured for a limited period of time.

Her constitutions were but too practicable; and short as was their duration, it was but too long.
They endured time enough for treaties which benefited themselves and have done infinite mischief
to our cause. But, granting him his strange thesis, that hitherto the mere form or the mere term
of their constitutions, and not their indisposition, but their instability, has been the cause
of their not preserving the relations of amity,--how could a constitution
which might not last half an hour after the noble lord's signature
of the treaty, in the company in which he must sign it, insure its
observance?

If you trouble yourself at all with their constitutions, you are
certainly more concerned with them after the treaty than before it,
as the observance of conventions is of infinitely more consequence
than the making them.

Can anything be more palpably absurd and senseless than to object to a treaty of peace for
want of durability in constitutions which had an actual duration,
and to trust a constitution that at the time of the writing had not
so much as a practical existence?

There is no way of accounting for such discourse in the mouths of men of sense, but by supposing that
they secretly entertain a hope that the very act of having made a peace with the Regicides will
give a stability to the Regicide system.

This will not clear the discourse from the absurdity, but it will account for the conduct, which
such reasoning so ill defends. What a roundabout way is this to peace,--to make war for the destruction
of regicides, and then to give them peace in order to insure a stability that will enable them
to observe it! I say nothing of the honor displayed in such a system. It is plain it militates
with itself almost in all the parts of it. In one part, it supposes stability in their Constitution,
as a ground of a stable peace; in another part, we are to hope for peace in a different way,--that
is, by splitting this brilliant orb into little stars, and this would make the face of heaven
so fine! No, there is no system upon which the peace which in humility we are to supplicate can possibly
stand.

I believe, before this time, that the more form of a constitution, in any country, never was fixed
as the sole ground of objecting to a treaty with it.

With other circumstances it may be of great moment.


It was late in the afternoon when Stradella had finished his work, and the last note and rest
of 'Pietà Signore' were written down. The two had dined on the supper which Pina and Cucurullo
had prepared for them on the previous evening, and in the warm hours Ortensia had fallen asleep
again for a little while, still listening to the song and hearing it in her dreams. But when
Stradella was sure that nothing more was to be changed, she opened her eyes wide and got up;
and she came and knelt at his knees as she had done on that last night in the balcony of the
old inn; and then he sang what he had composed, from first to last, in a voice that just filled
her ears when it was loudest, and still echoed in her heart when it sank to a mere breath.
When he was silent at last there were tears in her eyes, and she kissed his hand as it lay
passive on the silent strings of the lute, while he bent down over her and his lips touched
her hair.

They had not much time left after that, as it seemed to them, when they remembered it all and
looked back on one of the happiest days in their young lives. The last time they kissed was
when they were ready to go downstairs to the carriage that was waiting to take them to the
Quirinal. Strange to say, Stradella felt a little faint then, and his heart was beating almost
painfully, whereas Ortensia was quite calm and confident, and smiled at the two sbirri in black
who were ready on the landing to escort the prisoners to the Cardinal's presence.

They were there at last, in a spacious room where everything was either white, or gilded, or
of gold, the walls, the furniture, the big fireplace, the heavy carpet spread on the marble
floor, where the Pope sat in his gilded chair, himself all in white, with a small white silk
skullcap set far back on his silvery hair. His face was almost white, too, and the short beard
on his chin was like snow, for he was over eighty years of age, thin, and in ill-health; but
the face was kindly, with soft dark eyes that still had life in them; and the shadow of a smile
flickered round the faded lips as Stradella and Ortensia knelt together at his feet.

On his left side stood Cardinal Altieri, erect and motionless in his purple cassock with red
buttons, and his scarlet silk cloak. His face was grave and inscrutable.

'Holy Father,' he had said, as the pair knelt down, 'these are the prisoners who implore your
pardon.'

That was all he said, and for some moments the Pope did not speak, though he nodded his snowy
head twice, in answer to the Cardinal's words, and his gentle eyes looked from the one young
face to the other as if reading the meaning of each.

'You sang to me a year ago, my son,' he said at length to Stradella. 'Go now and stand a little
way off and make music, for though I am old I hear well; and do your best, for I will be your
judge. If I find you have even greater mastery than last year, your skill shall atone for your
rude handling of my nephew; but if you sing less well, you must have an opportunity of practising
and perfecting your art in solitude for a few months.'

If Stradella had dared to glance at the kindly face just then, he would certainly have noticed
how the dark eyes brightened, and almost twinkled. But Ortensia, being a woman, and still full
of girlhood's innocent daring, was boldly looking up at the Pope while he spoke; and he smiled
at her, and one shadowy hand went out and rested on the black veil she had pinned upon her hair.

'Go and stand near your husband while he sings to me,' he said. 'You will give him courage,
I am sure!'

The two rose together, and Stradella took up the lute he had laid beside him on the floor when
he had knelt down at the Pope's feet. He and Ortensia stepped back half-a-dozen paces, and
the musician stood still, but Ortensia moved a little farther away and to one side. The windows
were wide open to the west, and the rich evening light flooded the white and gold room, and
illumined the figure of the aged Pope, the strong features of the tall grey-haired Cardinal
beside him, and the two young faces of the singer and his wife.

Stradella's heart beat fast and faintly, and his fingers trembled when they touched the strings
and made the first minor chord. As long as he lived he remembered how at that very moment two
swallows shot by the open window, uttering their eager little note; the room swam with him,
and he thought he was going to reel and fall. For a moment he saw nothing and knew nothing,
except that he had reached the end of the short prelude on the lute, and that he must find
voice to sing for his liberty and Ortensia's, if not for his life.

'Pietà, Signore----'

The first words broke from his chilled lips in a low cry of despair, so strange and moving,
and yet so musical, that the Cardinal started visibly, and the Pope raised his white head and
looked slowly down the room, as if some suffering creature must be there at the very point
of death, and crying low for pity and forgiveness. Even Ortensia, who had heard all, could
not believe her ears, though she knew her husband's genius well.

'Signor pietà----' he sang again.

Fear was gone now, but art poured out the appeal for pardon with supreme power to move, roused
to outdo itself, perhaps, by that first piteous cry that had broken from the master-singer's
lips. The plaintive notes floated on the golden air as if a culprit spirit were pleading for
forgiveness at the gates of paradise, a wonder to hear.

Ortensia held her breath, her eyes fixed on the aged Pontiff's rapt face; for he was gazing
at the singer while he listened to a strain such as he had never heard in all his eighty years
of life; and his kind old eyes were dewy with compassion.

The last note lingered on the air and died away, and there was silence in the great room while
one might have counted ten. Then the shadowy white hand was slowly stretched out in a beckoning
gesture, and the Pope spoke.

'Come,' he said, 'you are forgiven.'

They came and knelt at his feet again, and he, leaning forward in his great chair, bent his
head towards them.

'You were pardoned in my heart already, my son,' he said to Stradella, 'for I have been told
the truth, and the provocation you suffered was great. Go free, and fear nothing, for while
you dwell under our care in Rome you shall be as safe as I who speak to you. Go free, and use
the great gift you have received from heaven to raise men's hearts heavenwards, as you have
raised mine to-day.'

He gave his hand to Stradella and then to Ortensia, and they kissed the great ring with devout
gratitude, deeply touched by his words. Then he spoke again, and still more kindly.

'Will you ask anything of me before you go?'

'Your blessing on us, as man and wife, Holy Father,' Stradella answered.

'Most willingly, my children.'

With fatherly tenderness he joined their right hands under his left, and then, lifting his
right above their bowed heads, and looking up, he blessed them very solemnly.

       *       *       *       *       *

I shall tell no more, but leave the singer and his young wife to their happiness. If any one
would know the end that followed years afterwards, he will find it in chronicles that are in
almost every great library. I shall only say that while those two lived they loved, as few
have, and that Stradella's fame was greater when he breathed his last than it had ever been
before; and in Italy he is not forgotten yet.

But whether Trombin and Gambardella will ever stroll into the story-teller's dreamland again,
and act other parts, he himself cannot surely tell, nor does he know whether they will be welcome
if they come. Their names are not in the chronicles, as Stradella's and Ortensia's are, as
well as Pignaver's. The Venetian nobleman 'sent certain assassins,' and that is all we know;
and as for the names and faces and figures I have given to the Bravi, I found them beyond the
borders of truth in the delicious Gardens of Irresponsibility, where many strange people dwell
together, who might be real, and may be alive some day, but who have not yet made up their
minds to exchange the flowery paths of fiction for the stony roads and dusty lanes of this
working-day world.

Mr. F. MARION CRAWFORD'S NOVELS

THE SARACINESCA SERIES

In the binding of the Uniform Edition, each, $1.50

Saracinesca

     "The work has two distinct merits, either of which would serve to
     make it great,--that of telling a perfect story in a perfect way,
     and of giving a graphic picture of Roman society in the last days
     of the Pope's temporal power.... The story is exquisitely
     told."--Boston Traveler.

Sant' Ilario. A Sequel to "Saracinesca"

     "A singularly powerful and beautiful story.... It fulfils every
     requirement of artistic fiction. It brings out what is most
     impressive in human action, without owing any of its effectiveness
     to sensationalism or artifice. It is natural, fluent in evolution,
     accordant with experience, graphic in description, penetrating in
     analysis, and absorbing in interest."--New York Tribune.

Don Orsino. A Sequel to "Sant' Ilario"

     "Perhaps the cleverest novel of the year.... There is not a dull
     paragraph in the book, and the reader may be assured that once
     begun, the story of Don Orsino will fascinate him until its
     close."--The Critic.

Taquisara

     "To Mr. Crawford's Roman novels belongs the supreme quality of
     uniting subtly drawn characters to a plot of uncommon
     interest."--Chicago Tribune.

Corleone

     "Mr. Crawford is the novelist born ... a natural story-teller, with
     wit, imagination, and insight added to a varied and profound
     knowledge of social life."--The Inter-Ocean, Chicago.

Casa Braccio. In two volumes, $2.00. Illustrated by A. Castaigne.

     "Mr. Crawford's books have life, pathos, and insight; he tells a
     dramatic story with many exquisite touches."--New York Sun. It is a perfect specimen of literary art."--The Newark
     Advertiser.

Marzio's Crucifix

     "We have repeatedly had occasion to say that Mr. Crawford possesses
     in an extraordinary degree the art of constructing a story. It is
     as if it could not have been written otherwise, so naturally does
     the story unfold itself, and so logical and consistent is the
     sequence of incident after incident. As a story, Marzio's
     Crucifix is perfectly constructed."--New York Commercial
     Advertiser.

Heart of Rome. A Tale of the Lost Water

     "Mr. Crawford has written a story of absorbing interest, a story
     with a genuine thrill in it; he has drawn his characters with a
     sure and brilliant touch, and he has said many things surpassingly
     well."--New York Times Saturday Review.

Cecilia. A Story of Modern Rome

     "That F. Marion Crawford is a master of mystery needs no new
     telling.... His latest novel, Cecilia, is as weird as anything he
     has done since the memorable Mr. Isaacs.... A strong,
     interesting, dramatic story, with the picturesque Roman setting
     beautifully handled as only a master's touch could do
     it."--Philadelphia Evening Telegraph.

Whosoever Shall Offend

     "It is a story sustained from beginning to end by an ever
     increasing dramatic quality."--New York Evening Post.

Pietro Ghisleri

     "The imaginative richness, the marvellous ingenuity of plot, the
     power and subtlety of the portrayal of character, the charm of the
     romantic environment,--the entire atmosphere, indeed,--rank this
     novel at once among the great creations."--The Boston Budget.

To Leeward

     "The four characters with whose fortunes this novel dealt are,
     perhaps, the most brilliantly executed portraits in the whole of
     Mr. Crawford's long picture gallery, while for subtle insight into
     the springs of human passion and for swift dramatic action none of
     the novels surpasses this one."--The News and Courier. His novels possess atmosphere in
     a high degree.

Mr. Isaacs                                    (India)

     Its scenes are laid in Simla, chiefly. This is the work which first
     placed its author among the most brilliant novelists of his day.

Greifenstein                                  (The Black Forest)

     "... Another notable contribution to the literature of the day. It
     possesses originality in its conception and is a work of unusual
     ability. Its interest is sustained to the close, and it is an
     advance even on the previous work of this talented author. Like all
     Mr. Crawford's work, this novel is crisp, clear, and vigorous, and
     will be read with a great deal of interest."--New York Evening
     Telegram.

Zoroaster                                    (Persia)

     "It is a drama in the force of its situations and in the poetry and
     dignity of its language; but its men and women are not men and
     women of a play. By the naturalness of their conversation and
     behavior they seem to live and lay hold of our human sympathy more
     than the same characters on a stage could possibly do."--The New
     York Times.

The Witch of Prague                          (Bohemia)

"A fantastic tale," illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

     "The artistic skill with which this extraordinary story is
     constructed and carried out is admirable and delightful.... Mr.
     Crawford has scored a decided triumph, for the interest of the tale
     is sustained throughout.... A very remarkable, powerful, and
     interesting story."--New York Tribune.

Paul Patoff                                  (Constantinople)

     "Mr. Crawford has a marked talent for assimilating local color, not
     to make mention of a broader historical sense. Even though he may
     adopt, as it is the romancer's right to do, the extreme romantic
     view of history, it is always a living and moving picture that he
     evolves for us, varied and stirring."--New York Evening Post.

Marietta                                     (Venice)

     "No living writer can surpass Mr. Crawford in the construction of a
     complicated plot and the skilful unravelling of the tangled
     skein."--Chicago Record-Herald.

     "He has gone back to the field of his earlier triumphs, and has,
     perhaps, scored the greatest triumph of them all."--New York
     Herald. A Romance of the Second Crusade. Illustrated by Louis Loeb

     "Via Crucis ... A tale of former days, possessing an air of
     reality and an absorbing interest such as few writers since Scott
     have been able to accomplish when dealing with historical
     characters."--Boston Transcript.

In the Palace of the King                    (Spain)

     "In the Palace of the King is a masterpiece; there is a
     picturesqueness, a sincerity which will catch all readers in an
     agreeable storm of emotion, and even leave a hardened reviewer
     impressed and delighted."--Literature, London.

With the Immortals

     "The strange central idea of the story could have occurred only to
     a writer whose mind was very sensitive to the current of modern
     thought and progress, while its execution, the setting it forth in
     proper literary clothing, could be successfully attempted only by
     one whose active literary ability should be fully equalled by his
     power of assimilative knowledge both literary and scientific, and
     no less by his courage and capacity for hard work. The book will be
     found to have a fascination entirely new for the habitual reader of
     novels. Indeed, Mr. Crawford has succeeded in taking his readers
     quite above the ordinary plane of novel interest."--Boston
     Advertiser.

Children of the King                          (Calabria)

     "One of the most artistic and exquisitely finished pieces of work
     that Crawford has produced. The picturesque setting, Calabria and
     its surroundings, the beautiful Sorrento and the Gulf of Salerno,
     with the bewitching accessories that climate, sea, and sky afford,
     give Mr. Crawford rich opportunities to show his rare descriptive
     powers. As a whole the book is strong and beautiful through its
     simplicity, and ranks among the choicest of the author's many fine
     productions."--Public Opinion.

A Cigarette Maker's Romance and Khaled, a Tale of Arabia    (Munich)

     "Two gems of subtle analysis of human passion and
     motive."--Times.

     "The interest is unflagging throughout. Never has Mr. Crawford done
     more brilliant realistic work than here. But his realism is only
     the case and cover for those intense feelings which, placed under
     no matter what humble conditions, produce the most dramatic and the
     most tragic situations.... This is a secret of genius, to take the
     most coarse and common material, the meanest surroundings, the most
     sordid material prospects, and out of the vehement passions which
     sometimes dominate all human beings to build up with these poor
     elements, scenes and passages the dramatic and emotional power of
     which at once enforce attention and awaken the profoundest
     interest."--New York Tribune.

Arethusa                                     (Constantinople)

     Dr. Cooper, in The Bookman, once gave to Mr. Crawford the title
     which best marks his place in modern fiction: "the prince of
     storytellers."

Dr. Claudius. A True Story

     The scene changes from Heidelberg to New York, and much of the
     story develops during the ocean voyage.

     "There is a satisfying quality in Mr. Crawford's strong, vital,
     forceful stories."--Boston Herald.

An American Politician.                  The scenes are laid in Boston

     "It need scarcely be said that the story is skilfully and
     picturesquely written, portraying sharply individual characters in
     well-defined surroundings."--New York Commercial Advertiser.

The Three Fates

     "Mr. Crawford has manifestly brought his best qualities as a
     student of human nature and his finest resources as a master of an
     original and picturesque style to bear upon this story. She laid a
     compelling hand on Mrs. Bean's shoulder and turned her so that she
     looked straight at the small group of home-stayers down on the wharf.
     She pointed a sepulchral finger,
     
     "That there, in the brown with the basket, is Hetty Cronney, own sister
to Mis' Josiah Tuttle."

     
     Mrs. Bean clutched her reticule and leaned over the rail, gasping with
     interest.
     

     "Ye don't say--that's her? My! My! My!"
     

In solemn silence the two regarded the little brown woman so unconscious
of their gaze.

     By the piteous wizened face screwed up in the sunlight, by the
     faded hair, nut-cracker jaws, and hollow eyes they utterly condemned
Mrs. Tuttle, who, blue feathers floating, was also absorbed in watching
the stream of embarking excursionists.

     
     
     Mrs. Tinneray, after a whispered consultation with Mrs. Bean went
up and nudged her; without ceremony she pointed,

"Your sister's down
there on the wharf," she announced flatly, "come on over where we
are and you can see her."

     
     
     Frivolous Mrs. Tuttle turned and encountered a pair of eyes steely
in their determination.

Re-adjusting the gold cage more comfortably on its camp-stool and
murmuring a blessing on the hooked-beak occupant, the azure lady tripped
off in the wake of her flat-heeled friend.

     
     Meanwhile Mr. Tinneray, standing well aft, was calling cheerfully
     down to the little figure on the wharf.
     
     "Next Summer you must git your nerve up and come along.

Excursions is all the rage nowadays.

     My wife's took in four a'ready."
     
     But little Mrs. Cronney did not answer. Shading her eyes from the
     sun glare, she was establishing recognizance with her cerulean relative
     who, waving a careless blue-mitted hand, called down in girlish
     greeting,

     "Heigho, Hetty, how's Cronney? Why ain't you to the excursion?"
     
     The little woman on the wharf was seen to wince slightly. She shifted
     her brown basket to the other arm, ignoring the second question.
     
     "Oh, Cronney's good--ony he's low-spirited--seems as tho he couldn't
     get no work."
     "Same old crooked stick, hey?" Mrs. Tuttle called down facetiously.

Mrs.
Bean and Mrs. Tinneray stole horrified glances at each other. One
planted a cotton-gloved hand over an opening mouth. But little Mrs.
Cronney, standing alone on the pier was equal to the occasion. She
shook out a small and spotless handkerchief, blowing her nose with
elegant deliberation before she replied,

"Well--I don't know as he
needs to work all the time; Cronney is peculiar, you know, he's one
of them that is high-toned and nifty about money--he ain't like some,
clutching onto every penny!" The story is American to
     the very core.... Mr. Allen stands to-day in the front rank of
     American novelists. The Choir Invisible will solidify a
     reputation already established and bring into clear light his rare
     gifts as an artist. For this latest story is as genuine a work of
     art as has come from an American hand."--HAMILTON MABIE in
     The Outlook.

The Reign of Law. A Tale of the Kentucky Hempfields

     "Mr. Allen has a style as original and almost as perfectly finished
     as Hawthorne's, and he has also Hawthorne's fondness for spiritual
     suggestion that makes all his stories rich in the qualities that
     are lacking in so many novels of the period.... If read in the
     right way, it cannot fail to add to one's spiritual
     possessions."--San Francisco Chronicle.

The Mettle of the Pasture

     "It may be that The Mettle of the Pasture will live and become a
     part of our literature; it certainly will live far beyond the
     allotted term of present-day fiction. Our principal concern is that
     it is a notable novel, that it ranks high in the range of American
     and English fiction, and that it is worth the reading, the
     re-reading, and the continuous appreciation of those who care for
     modern literature at its best."--By E. F. E. in the Boston
     Transcript.

Summer in Arcady. A Tale of Nature Cloth, $1.25

     "This story by James Lane Allen is one of the gems of the season.
     It is artistic in its setting, realistic and true to nature and
     life in its descriptions, dramatic, pathetic, tragic, in its
     incidents; indeed, a veritable masterpiece that must become
     classic. It is difficult to give an outline of the story; it is one
     of the stories which do not outline; it must be read."--Boston
     Daily Advertiser.

Shorter Stories

The Blue Grass Region of Kentucky                  $1.50 Flute and Violin, and Other Kentucky
Tales         $1.50 The Bride of the Mistletoe                         $1.25 A Kentucky Cardinal.
Illustrated                 $1.00 Aftermath. A Sequel to "A Kentucky Cardinal"

The Gospel of Freedom

     "A novel that may truly be called the greatest study of social
     life, in a broad and very much up-to-date sense, that has ever been
     contributed to American fiction."--Chicago Inter-Ocean.

The Web of Life

     "It is strong in that it faithfully depicts many phases of American
     life, and uses them to strengthen a web of fiction, which is most
     artistically wrought out."--Buffalo Express.

Jock o' Dreams, or the Real World

     "The title of the book has a subtle intention. It indicates, and is
     true to the verities in doing so, the strange dreamlike quality of
     life to the man who has not yet fought his own battles, or come
     into conscious possession of his will--only such battles bite into
     the consciousness."--Chicago Tribune.

The Common Lot

     "It grips the reader tremendously.... It is the drama of a human
     soul the reader watches ... the finest study of human motive that
     has appeared for many a day."--The World To-day.

The Memoirs of an American Citizen. Illustrated with about fifty drawings by F. B. Masters.

     "Mr. Herrick's book is a book among many, and he comes nearer to
     reflecting a certain kind of recognizable, contemporaneous American
     spirit than anybody else has yet done."--New York Times.

Together

     "An able book, remarkably so, and one which should find a place in
     the library of any woman who is not a fool."--Editorial in The New
     York American.

