As for periods of mourning, we are told that a widow's mourning should last eighteen months,
although in England it is somewhat lightened in twelve. For the first six months the dress
should be of crape cloth, or Henrietta cloth covered entirely with crape, collar and cuffs
of white crape, a crape bonnet with a long crape veil, and a widow's cap of white crape if
preferred. In America, however, widows' caps are not as universally worn as in England. Dull
black kid gloves are worn in first mourning; after that gants de Suede or silk gloves are proper,
particularly in summer. After six months' mourning the crape can be removed, and grenadine,
copeau fringe, and dead trimmings used, if the smell of crape is offensive, as it is to some
people. After twelve months the widow's cap is left off, and the heavy veil is exchanged for
a lighter one, and the dress can be of silk grenadine, plain black gros-grain, or crape-trimmed
cashmere with jet trimmings, and cr^pe lisse about the neck and sleeves.

All kinds of black fur and seal-skin are worn in deep mourning.

Mourning for a father or mother should last one year. During half a year should be worn Henrietta
cloth or serge trimmed with crape, at first with black tulle at the wrists and neck. A deep
veil is worn at the back of the bonnet, but not over the head or face like the widow's veil,
which covers the entire person when down. This fashion is very much objected to by doctors,
who think many diseases of the eye come by this means, and advise for common use thin nun's-veiling
instead of crape, which sheds its pernicious dye into the sensitive nostrils, producing catarrhal
disease as well as blindness and cataract of the eye. It is a thousand pities that fashion
dictates the crape veil, but so it is. It is the very banner of woe, and no one has the courage
to go without it. We can only suggest to mourners wearing it that they should pin a small veil
of black tulle over the eyes and nose, and throw back the heavy crape as often as possible,
for health's sake.

Jet ornaments alone should be worn for eighteen months, unless diamonds set as mementoes are
used. For half-mourning, a bonnet of silk or chip, trimmed with crape and ribbon. Mourning
flowers, and cr^pe lisse at the hands and wrists, lead the way to gray, mauve, and white-and-black
toilettes after the second year.

Mourning for a brother or sister may be the same; for a stepfather or stepmother the same;
for grandparents the same; but the duration may be shorter. In England this sort of respectful
mourning only lasts three months.

Mourning for children should last nine months, The first three the dress should be crape-trimmed,
the mourning less deep than that for a husband. No one is ever ready to take off mourning;
therefore these rules have this advantage--they enable the friends around a grief-stricken
mother to tell her when is the time to make her dress more cheerful, which she is bound to
do for the sake of the survivors, many of whom are perhaps affected for life by seeing a mother
always in black. It is well for mothers to remember this when sorrow for a lost child makes
all the earth seem barren to them.

We are often asked whether letters of condolence should be written on black-edged paper. Decidedly
not, unless the writer is in black. The telegraph now flashes messages of respect and sympathy
across sea and land like a voice from the heart. Perhaps it is better than any other word of
sympathy, although all who can should write to a bereaved person. There is no formula possible
for these letters; they must be left to the individual's good taste, and perhaps the simplest
and least conventional are the best. A card with a few words pencilled on it has often been
the best letter of condolence.

In France a long and deeply edged mourning letter or address, called a faire part, is sent
to every one known to the family to advise them of a death. In this country that is not done,
although some mention of the deceased is generally sent to friends in Europe who would not
otherwise hear of the death.

Wives wear mourning for the relatives of their husbands precisely as they would for their own,
as would husbands for the relatives of their wives. Widowers wear mourning for their wives
two years in England; here only one year. Widowers go into society at a much earlier date than
widows, it being a received rule that all gentlemen in mourning for relatives go into society
very much sooner than ladies.

Ladies of the family attend the funeral of a relative if they are able to do so, and wear their
deepest mourning. Servants are usually put in mourning for the head of the family--sometimes
for any member of it. They should wear a plain black livery and weeds on their hats; the inside
lining of the family carriage should also be of black.

The period of mourning for an aunt or uncle or cousin is of three months' duration, and that
time at least should elapse before the family go out or into gay company, or are seen at theatres
or operas, etc.

We now come to the saddest part of our subject, the consideration of the dead body, so dear,
yet so soon to leave us; so familiar, yet so far away--the cast-off dress, the beloved clay.
Dust to dust, ashes to ashes!

As for the coffin, it is simpler than formerly; and, while lined with satin and made with care,
it is plain on the outside--black cloth, with silver plate for the name, and silver handles,
being in the most modern taste. There are but few of the "trappings of woe." At the funeral
of General Grant, twice a President, and regarded as the saviour of his country, there was
a gorgeous catafalque of purple velvet, but at the ordinary funeral there are none of these
trappings. If our richest citizen were to die to-morrow, he would probably be buried plainly.
Yet it is touching to see with what fidelity the poorest creature tries to "bury her dead dacent."
The destitute Irish woman begs for a few dollars for this sacred duty, and seldom in vain.
It is a duty for the rich to put down ostentation in funerals, for it is an expense which comes
heavily on those who have poverty added to grief.

In dressing the remains for the grave, those of a man are usually "clad in his habit as he
lived." For a woman, tastes differ: a white robe and cap, not necessarily shroudlike, are decidedly
unexceptionable. For young persons and children white cashmere robes and flowers are always
most appropriate.

The late cardinal, whose splendid obsequies and whose regal "lying in state" were in keeping
with his high rank and the gorgeous ceremonial of his Church, was strongly opposed to the profuse
use of flowers at funerals, and requested that none be sent to deck his lifeless clay. He was
a modest and humble man, and always on the right side in these things; therefore let his advice
prevail. A few flowers placed in the dead hand, perhaps a simple wreath, but not those unmeaning
memorials which have become to real mourners such sad perversities of good taste, such a misuse
of flowers. Let those who can afford to send such things devote the money to the use of poor
mothers who cannot afford to buy a coffin for a dead child or a coat for a living one.

In the course of a month after a death all friends of the deceased are expected to leave cards
on the survivors, and it is discretionary whether these be written on or not. These cards should
be carefully preserved, that, when the mourner is ready to return to the world, they may be
properly acknowledged.

CHAPTER XXIII. LETTERS OF CONDOLENCE.

Probably no branch of the epistolary art has ever given to friendly hearts so much perplexity
as that which has to do with writing to friends in affliction. It is delightful to sit down
and wish anybody joy; to overflow with congratulatory phrases over a favorable bit of news;
to say how glad you are that your friend is engaged or married, or has inherited a fortune,
has written a successful book, or has painted an immortal picture. Joy opens the closet of
language, and the gems of expression are easily found; but the fountain of feeling being chilled
by the uncongenial atmosphere of grief, by the sudden horror of death, or the more terrible
breath of dishonor or shame, or even by the cold blast of undeserved misfortune, leaves the
individual sympathizer in a mood of perplexity and of sadness which is of itself a most discouraging
frame of mind for the inditing of a letter.

And yet we sympathize with our friend: we desire to tell him so. We want to say, "My friend,
your grief is my grief; nothing can hurt you that does not hurt me. I cannot, of course, enter
into all your feelings, but to stand by and see you hurt, and remain unmoved myself, is impossible."
All this we wish to say; but how shall we say it that our words may not hurt him a great deal
more than he is hurt already? How shall we lay our hand so tenderly on that sore spot that
we may not inflict a fresh wound? How can we say to a mother who bends over a fresh grave,
that we regret the loss she has sustained in the death of her child? Can language measure the
depth, the height, the immensity, the bitterness of that grief? What shall we say that is not
trite and commonplace--even unfeeling? Shall we be pagan, and say that "whom the gods love
die young," or Christian, and remark that "God does not willingly afflict the children of men?"
She has thought of that, she has heard it, alas! often before--but too often, as she thinks now.

Shall we tell her what she has lost--how good, how loving, how brave, how admirable was the
spirit which has just left the flesh? Alas! how well she knows that! How her tears well up
as she remembers the silent fortitude, the heroic patience under the pain that was to kill!
Shall we quote ancient philosophers and modern poets? They have all dwelt at greater or less
length upon death and the grave. Or shall we say, in simple and unpremeditated words, the thoughts
which fill our own minds?

The person who has to write this letter may be a ready writer, who finds fit expression at
the point of his pen, and who overflows with the language of consolation--such a one needs
no advice; but to the hundreds who do need help we would say that the simplest expressions
are the best. A distant friend, upon one of these occasions, wrote a letter as brief as brief
might be, but of its kind altogether perfect. It ran thus: "I have heard of your great grief,
and I send you a simple pressure of the hand." Coming from a gay and volatile person, it had
for the mourner great consolation; pious quotations, and even the commonplaces of condolence,
would have seemed forced. Undoubtedly those persons do us great good, or they wish to, who
tell us to be resigned--that we have deserved this affliction; that we suffer now, but that
our present sufferings are nothing to what our future sufferings shall be; that we are only
entering the portals of agony, and that every day will reveal to us the magnitude of our loss.
Such is the formula which certain persons use, under the title of "letters of condolence."
It is the wine mixed with gall which they gave our Lord to drink; and as He refused it, so
may we. There are, no doubt, persons of a gloomy and a religious temperament combined who delight
in such phrases; who quote the least consolatory of the texts of Scripture; who roll our grief
as a sweet morsel under their tongues; who really envy the position of chief mourner as one
of great dignity and considerable consequence; who consider crape and bombazine as a sort of
royal mantle conferring distinction. There are many such people in the world. Dickens and Anthony
Trollope have put them into novels--solemn and ridiculous Malvolios; they exist in nature,
in literature, and in art. It adds a new terror to death when we reflect that such persons
will not fail to make it the occasion of letter-writing.

But those who write to us strongly and cheerfully, who do not dwell so much on our grief as
on our remaining duties--they are the people who help us. To advise a mourner to go out into
the sun, to resume his work, to help the poor, and, above all, to carry on the efforts, to
emulate the virtues of the deceased--this is comfort. It is a very dear and consoling thing
to a bereaved friend to hear the excellence of the departed extolled, to read and re-read all
of the precious testimony which is borne by outsiders to the saintly life ended--and there
are few so hard-hearted as not to find something good to say of the dead: it is the impulse
of human nature; it underlies all our philosophy and our religion; it is the "stretching out
of a hand," and it comforts the afflicted. But what shall we say to those on whom disgrace
has laid its heavy, defiling hand? Is it well to write to them at all? Shall we not be mistaken
for those who prowl like jackals round a grave, and will not our motives be misunderstood?
Is not sympathy sometimes malice in disguise? Does not the phrase "I am so sorry for you!"
sometimes sound like "I am so glad for myself?" Undoubtedly it does; but a sincere friend should
not be restrained, through fear that his motive may be mistaken, from saying that he wishes
to bear some part of the burden. Let him show that the unhappy man is in his thoughts, that
he would like to help, that he would be glad to see him, or take him out, or send him a book,
or at least write him a letter. Such a wish as this will hurt no one.

Philosophy--some quaint and dry bit of old Seneca, or modern Rochefoucauld--has often helped
a struggling heart when disgrace, deserved or undeserved, has placed the soul in gyves of iron.
Sympathetic persons, of narrow minds and imperfect education, often have the gift of being
able to say most consolatory things. Irish servants, for instance, rarely hurt the feelings
of a mourner. They burst out in the language of Nature, and, if it is sometimes grotesque,
it is almost always comforting. It is the educated and conscientious person who finds the writing
of a letter of condolence difficult.

Perhaps much of our dread of death is the result of a false education, and the wearing of black
may after all be a mistake. At the moment when we need bright colors, fresh flowers, sunshine,
and beauty, we hide ourselves behind crape veils and make our garments heavy with ashes; but
as it is conventional it is in one way a protection, and is therefore proper. No one feels
like varying the expressions of a grief which has the Anglo-Saxon seriousness in it, the Scandinavian
melancholy of a people from whom Nature hides herself behind a curtain of night. To the sunny
and graceful Greek the road of the dead was the Via Felice; it was the happy way, the gate
of flowers; the tombs were furnished as the houses were, with images of the beloved, and the
veriest trifles which the deceased had loved. One wonders, as the tomb of a child is opened
on the road out of Tanagra, near Athens, and the toys and hobby-horse and little shoes are
found therein, if, after all, that father and mother were not wiser than we who, like Constance,
"stuff out his vacant garments with his form." Is there not something quite unenlightened in
the persistence with which we connect death with gloom?

