She seemed to guess his thought. "You don't like my saying that you came for Lady Ulrica?"
she asked, leaning over the table to pour herself a second cup of tea.

He liked her quickness, at any rate. "It's better," he laughed, "than your thinking I came
for Mrs. Murrett!"

"Oh, we never thought anybody came for Mrs. Murrett! It was always for something else: the
music, or the cook--when there was a good one--or the other people; generally ONE of the other
people."

"I see."

She was amusing, and that, in his present mood, was more to his purpose than the exact shade
of her taste. It was odd, too, to discover suddenly that the blurred tapestry of Mrs. Murrett's
background had all the while been alive and full of eyes. Now, with a pair of them looking
into his, he was conscious of a queer reversal of perspective.

"Who were the 'we'? Were you a cloud of witnesses?"

"There were a good many of us." She smiled. "Let me see--who was there in your time? Mrs. Bolt--and
Mademoiselle--and Professor Didymus and the Polish Countess. Don't you remember the Polish
Countess? She crystal-gazed, and played accompaniments, and Mrs. Murrett chucked her because
Mrs. Didymus accused her of hypnotizing the Professor. But of course you don't remember. We
were all invisible to you; but we could see. And we all used to wonder about you----"

Again Darrow felt a redness in the temples. "What about me?"

"Well--whether it was you or she who..."

He winced, but hid his disapproval. It made the time pass to listen to her.

"And what, if one may ask, was your conclusion?"

"Well, Mrs. Bolt and Mademoiselle and the Countess naturally thought it was SHE; but Professor
Didymus and Jimmy Brance--especially Jimmy----"

"Just a moment: who on earth is Jimmy Brance?"

She exclaimed in wonder: "You WERE absorbed--not to remember Jimmy Brance! He must have been
right about you, after all." She let her amused scrutiny dwell on him. "But how could you?
She was false from head to foot!"

"False----?" In spite of time and satiety, the male instinct of ownership rose up and repudiated
the charge.

Miss Viner caught his look and laughed. "Oh, I only meant externally! You see, she often used
to come to my room after tennis, or to touch up in the evenings, when they were going on; and
I assure you she took apart like a puzzle. In fact I used to say to Jimmy--just to make him
wild--:'I'll bet you anything you like there's nothing wrong, because I know she'd never dare
un--'" She broke the word in two, and her quick blush made her face like a shallow-petalled
rose shading to the deeper pink of the centre.

The situation was saved, for Darrow, by an abrupt rush of memories, and he gave way to a mirth
which she as frankly echoed. "Of course," she gasped through her laughter, "I only said it
to tease Jimmy----"

Her amusement obscurely annoyed him. "Oh, you're all alike!" he exclaimed, moved by an unaccountable
sense of disappointment.

She caught him up in a flash--she didn't miss things! "You say that because you think I'm spiteful
and envious? Yes--I was envious of Lady Ulrica...Oh, not on account of you or Jimmy Brance!
Simply because she had almost all the things I've always wanted: clothes and fun and motors,
and admiration and yachting and Paris--why, Paris alone would be enough!--And how do you suppose
a girl can see that sort of thing about her day after day, and never wonder why some women,
who don't seem to have any more right to it, have it all tumbled into their laps, while others
are writing dinner invitations, and straightening out accounts, and copying visiting lists,
and finishing golf-stockings, and matching ribbons, and seeing that the dogs get their sulphur?
One looks in one's glass, after all!"

She launched the closing words at him on a cry that lifted them above the petulance of vanity;
but his sense of her words was lost in the surprise of her face. Under the flying clouds of
her excitement it was no longer a shallow flower-cup but a darkening gleaming mirror that might
give back strange depths of feeling. The girl had stuff in her--he saw it; and she seemed to
catch the perception in his eyes.

"That's the kind of education I got at Mrs. Murrett's--and I never had any other," she said
with a shrug.

"Good Lord--were you there so long?"

"Five years. I stuck it out longer than any of the others." She spoke as though it were something
to be proud of.

"Well, thank God you're out of it now!"

Again a just perceptible shadow crossed her face. "Yes--I'm out of it now fast enough."

"And what--if I may ask--are you doing next?"

She brooded a moment behind drooped lids; then, with a touch of hauteur: "I'm going to Paris:
to study for the stage."

"The stage?" Darrow stared at her, dismayed. All his confused contradictory impressions assumed
a new aspect at this announcement; and to hide his surprise he added lightly: "Ah--then you
will have Paris, after all!"

"Hardly Lady Ulrica's Paris. It s not likely to be roses, roses all the way."

"It's not, indeed." Real compassion prompted him to continue: "Have you any--any influence
you can count on?"

She gave a somewhat flippant little laugh. "None but my own. I've never had any other to count on."

He passed over the obvious reply. "But have you any idea how the profession is over-crowded?
I know I'm trite----"

"I've a very clear idea. But I couldn't go on as I was."

"Of course not. But since, as you say, you'd stuck it out longer than any of the others, couldn't
you at least have held on till you were sure of some kind of an opening?"

She made no reply for a moment; then she turned a listless glance to the rain-beaten window.
"Oughtn't we be starting?" she asked, with a lofty assumption of indifference that might have
been Lady Ulrica's.

Darrow, surprised by the change, but accepting her rebuff as a phase of what he guessed to
be a confused and tormented mood, rose from his seat and lifted her jacket from the chair-back
on which she had hung it to dry. As he held it toward her she looked up at him quickly.

"The truth is, we quarrelled," she broke out, "and I left last night without my dinner--and
without my salary."

"Ah--" he groaned, with a sharp perception of all the sordid dangers that might attend such
a break with Mrs. Murrett.

"And without a character!" she added, as she slipped her arms into the jacket. "And without
a trunk, as it appears--but didn't you say that, before going, there'd be time for another
look at the station?"

There was time for another look at the station; but the look again resulted in disappointment,
since her trunk was nowhere to be found in the huge heap disgorged by the newly-arrived London
express. The fact caused Miss Viner a moment's perturbation; but she promptly adjusted herself
to the necessity of proceeding on her journey, and her decision confirmed Darrow's vague resolve
to go to Paris instead of retracing his way to London.

Miss Viner seemed cheered at the prospect of his company, and sustained by his offer to telegraph
to Charing Cross for the missing trunk; and he left her to wait in the fly while he hastened
back to the telegraph office. The enquiry despatched, he was turning away from the desk when
another thought struck him and he went back and indited a message to his servant in London:
"If any letters with French post-mark received since departure forward immediately to Terminus
Hotel Gare du Nord Paris."

Then he rejoined Miss Viner, and they drove off through the rain to the pier.

III

Almost as soon as the train left Calais her head had dropped back into the corner, and she
had fallen asleep.

Sitting opposite, in the compartment from which he had contrived to have other travellers excluded,
Darrow looked at her curiously. He had never seen a face that changed so quickly. A moment
since it had danced like a field of daisies in a summer breeze; now, under the pallid oscillating
light of the lamp overhead, it wore the hard stamp of experience, as of a soft thing chilled
into shape before its curves had rounded: and it moved him to see that care already stole upon
her when she slept.

The story she had imparted to him in the wheezing shaking cabin, and at the Calais buffet--where
he had insisted on offering her the dinner she had missed at Mrs. Murrett's--had given a distincter
outline to her figure. From the moment of entering the New York boarding-school to which a
preoccupied guardian had hastily consigned her after the death of her parents, she had found
herself alone in a busy and indifferent world. Her youthful history might, in fact, have been
summed up in the statement that everybody had been too busy to look after her. Her guardian,
a drudge in a big banking house, was absorbed by "the office"; the guardian's wife, by her
health and her religion; and an elder sister, Laura, married, unmarried, remarried, and pursuing,
through all these alternating phases, some vaguely "artistic" ideal on which the guardian and
his wife looked askance, had (as Darrow conjectured) taken their disapproval as a pretext for
not troubling herself about poor Sophy, to whom--perhaps for this reason--she had remained
the incarnation of remote romantic possibilities.

In the course of time a sudden "stroke" of the guardian's had thrown his personal affairs into
a state of confusion from which--after his widely lamented death--it became evident that it
would not be possible to extricate his ward's inheritance. No one deplored this more sincerely
than his widow, who saw in it one more proof of her husband's life having been sacrificed to
the innumerable duties imposed on him, and who could hardly--but for the counsels of religion--have
brought herself to pardon the young girl for her indirect share in hastening his end. Sophy
did not resent this point of view. She was really much sorrier for her guardian's death than
for the loss of her insignificant fortune. The latter had represented only the means of holding
her in bondage, and its disappearance was the occasion of her immediate plunge into the wide
bright sea of life surrounding the island-of her captivity. She had first landed--thanks to
the intervention of the ladies who had directed her education--in a Fifth Avenue school-room
where, for a few months, she acted as a buffer between three autocratic infants and their bodyguard
of nurses and teachers. The too-pressing attentions of their father's valet had caused her
to fly this sheltered spot, against the express advice of her educational superiors, who implied
that, in their own case, refinement and self-respect had always sufficed to keep the most ungovernable
passions at bay. The experience of the guardian's widow having been precisely similar, and
the deplorable precedent of Laura's career being present to all their minds, none of these
ladies felt any obligation to intervene farther in Sophy's affairs; and she was accordingly
left to her own resources.

A schoolmate from the Rocky Mountains, who was taking her father and mother to Europe, had
suggested Sophy's accompanying them, and "going round" with her while her progenitors, in the
care of the courier, nursed their ailments at a fashionable bath. Darrow gathered that the
"going round" with Mamie Hoke was a varied and diverting process; but this relatively brilliant
phase of Sophy's career was cut short by the elopement of the inconsiderate Mamie with a "matinee
idol" who had followed her from New York, and by the precipitate return of her parents to negotiate
for the repurchase of their child.

It was then--after an interval of repose with compassionate but impecunious American friends
in Paris--that Miss Viner had been drawn into the turbid current of Mrs. Murrett's career.
The impecunious compatriots had found Mrs. Murrett for her, and it was partly on their account
(because they were such dears, and so unconscious, poor confiding things, of what they were
letting her in for) that Sophy had stuck it out so long in the dreadful house in Chelsea. The
Farlows, she explained to Darrow, were the best friends she had ever had (and the only ones
who had ever "been decent" about Laura, whom they had seen once, and intensely admired); but
even after twenty years of Paris they were the most incorrigibly inexperienced angels, and
quite persuaded that Mrs. Murrett was a woman of great intellectual eminence, and the house
at Chelsea "the last of the salons"--Darrow knew what she meant? And she hadn't liked to undeceive
them, knowing that to do so would be virtually to throw herself back on their hands, and feeling,
moreover, after her previous experiences, the urgent need of gaining, at any cost, a name for
stability; besides which--she threw it off with a slight laugh--no other chance, in all these
years, had happened to come to her.

She had brushed in this outline of her career with light rapid strokes, and in a tone of fatalism
oddly untinged by bitterness. Darrow perceived that she classified people according to their
greater or less "luck" in life, but she appeared to harbour no resentment against the undefined
power which dispensed the gift in such unequal measure. Things came one's way or they didn't;
and meanwhile one could only look on, and make the most of small compensations, such as watching
"the show" at Mrs. Murrett's, and talking over the Lady Ulricas and other footlight figures.
And at any moment, of course, a turn of the kaleidoscope might suddenly toss a bright spangle
into the grey pattern of one's days.

This light-hearted philosophy was not without charm to a young man accustomed to more traditional
views. George Darrow had had a fairly varied experience of feminine types, but the women he
had frequented had either been pronouncedly "ladies" or they had not. Grateful to both for
ministering to the more complex masculine nature, and disposed to assume that they had been
evolved, if not designed, to that end, he had instinctively kept the two groups apart in his
mind, avoiding that intermediate society which attempts to conciliate both theories of life.
"Bohemianism" seemed to him a cheaper convention than the other two, and he liked, above all,
people who went as far as they could in their own line--liked his "ladies" and their rivals
to be equally unashamed of showing for exactly what they were. He had not indeed--the fact
of Lady Ulrica was there to remind him--been without his experience of a third type; but that
experience had left him with a contemptuous distaste for the woman who uses the privileges
of one class to shelter the customs of another.

As to young girls, he had never thought much about them since his early love for the girl who
had become Mrs. Leath. That episode seemed, as he looked back on it, to bear no more relation
to reality than a pale decorative design to the confused richness of a summer landscape. He
no longer understood the violent impulses and dreamy pauses of his own young heart, or the
inscrutable abandonments and reluctances of hers. He had known a moment of anguish at losing
her--the mad plunge of youthful instincts against the barrier of fate; but the first wave of
stronger sensation had swept away all but the outline of their story, and the memory of Anna
Summers had made the image of the young girl sacred, but the class uninteresting.

