BUSHIDO THE SOUL OF JAPAN

BY INAZO NITOBÉ, A.M., Ph.D.

Author's Edition, Revised and Enlarged 13th EDITION 1908

DECEMBER, 1904

TO MY BELOVED UNCLE TOKITOSHI OTA WHO TAUGHT ME TO REVERE THE PAST AND TO ADMIRE THE DEEDS
OF THE SAMURAI I DEDICATE THIS LITTLE BOOK

                               --"That way
    Over the mountain, which who stands upon,
    Is apt to doubt if it be indeed a road;
    While if he views it from the waste itself,
    Up goes the line there, plain from base to brow,
    Not vague, mistakable! What's a break or two
    Seen from the unbroken desert either side?
    And then (to bring in fresh philosophy)
    What if the breaks themselves should prove at last
    The most consummate of contrivances
    To train a man's eye, teach him what is faith?"

    --ROBERT BROWNING,

    Bishop Blougram's Apology.

    "There are, if I may so say, three powerful spirits, which have
    from time to time, moved on the face of the waters, and given a
    predominant impulse to the moral sentiments and energies of
    mankind. These are the spirits of liberty, of religion, and of
    honor."

    --HALLAM,

    Europe in the Middle Ages.

    "Chivalry is itself the poetry of life."

    --SCHLEGEL,

    Philosophy of History.

PREFACE

About ten years ago, while spending a few days under the hospitable roof of the distinguished
Belgian jurist, the lamented M. de Laveleye, our conversation turned, during one of our rambles,
to the subject of religion. "Do you mean to say," asked the venerable professor, "that you
have no religious instruction in your schools?" On my replying in the negative he suddenly
halted in astonishment, and in a voice which I shall not easily forget, he repeated "No religion!
How do you impart moral education?" The question stunned me at the time. I could give no ready
answer, for the moral precepts I learned in my childhood days, were not given in schools; and
not until I began to analyze the different elements that formed my notions of right and wrong,
did I find that it was Bushido that breathed them into my nostrils.

The direct inception of this little book is due to the frequent queries put by my wife as to
the reasons why such and such ideas and customs prevail in Japan.

In my attempts to give satisfactory replies to M. de Laveleye and to my wife, I found that
without understanding Feudalism and Bushido,[1] the moral ideas of present Japan are a sealed
volume.

[Footnote 1: Pronounced Boó-shee-doh'. In putting Japanese words and names into English, Hepburn's
rule is followed, that the vowels should be used as in European languages, and the consonants
as in English.]

Taking advantage of enforced idleness on account of long illness, I put down in the order now
presented to the public some of the answers given in our household conversation. They consist
mainly of what I was taught and told in my youthful days, when Feudalism was still in force.

Between Lafcadio Hearn and Mrs. Hugh Fraser on one side and Sir Ernest Satow and Professor
Chamberlain on the other, it is indeed discouraging to write anything Japanese in English.
The only advantage I have over them is that I can assume the attitude of a personal defendant,
while these distinguished writers are at best solicitors and attorneys. I have often thought,--"Had
I their gift of language, I would present the cause of Japan in more eloquent terms!" But one
who speaks in a borrowed tongue should be thankful if he can just make himself intelligible.

All through the discourse I have tried to illustrate whatever points I have made with parallel
examples from European history and literature, believing that these will aid in bringing the
subject nearer to the comprehension of foreign readers.

Should any of my allusions to religious subjects and to religious workers be thought slighting,
I trust my attitude towards Christianity itself will not be questioned. It is with ecclesiastical
methods and with the forms which obscure the teachings of Christ, and not with the teachings
themselves, that I have little sympathy. I believe in the religion taught by Him and handed
down to us in the New Testament, as well as in the law written in the heart. Further, I believe
that God hath made a testament which maybe called "old" with every people and nation,--Gentile
or Jew, Christian or Heathen. As to the rest of my theology, I need not impose upon the patience
of the public.

In concluding this preface, I wish to express my thanks to my friend Anna C. Hartshorne for
many valuable suggestions and for the characteristically Japanese design made by her for the
cover of this book.

INAZO NITOBE.

Malvern, Pa., Twelfth Month, 1899.

PREFACE

TO THE TENTH AND REVISED EDITION

Since its first publication in Philadelphia, more than six years ago, this little book has
had an unexpected history. The Japanese reprint has passed through eight editions, the present
thus being its tenth appearance in the English language. Simultaneously with this will be issued
an American and English edition, through the publishing-house of Messrs. George H. Putnam's
Sons, of New York.

In the meantime, Bushido has been translated into Mahratti by Mr. Dev of Khandesh, into German
by Fräulein Kaufmann of Hamburg, into Bohemian by Mr. Hora of Chicago, into Polish by the Society
of Science and Life in Lemberg,--although this Polish edition has been censured by the Russian
Government. It is now being rendered into Norwegian and into French. A Chinese translation
is under contemplation. A Russian officer, now a prisoner in Japan, has a manuscript in Russian
ready for the press. A part of the volume has been brought before the Hungarian public and
a detailed review, almost amounting to a commentary, has been published in Japanese. Full scholarly
notes for the help of younger students have been compiled by my friend Mr. H. Sakurai, to whom
I also owe much for his aid in other ways.

I have been more than gratified to feel that my humble work has found sympathetic readers in
widely separated circles, showing that the subject matter is of some interest to the world
at large. Exceedingly flattering is the news that has reached me from official sources, that
President Roosevelt has done it undeserved honor by reading it and distributing several dozens
of copies among his friends.

In making emendations and additions for the present edition, I have largely confined them to
concrete examples. I still continue to regret, as I indeed have never ceased to do, my inability
to add a chapter on Filial Piety, which is considered one of the two wheels of the chariot
of Japanese ethics--Loyalty being the other. My inability is due rather to my ignorance of
the Western sentiment in regard to this particular virtue, than to ignorance of our own attitude
towards it, and I cannot draw comparisons satisfying to my own mind. I hope one day to enlarge
upon this and other topics at some length. All the subjects that are touched upon in these
pages are capable of further amplification and discussion; but I do not now see my way clear
to make this volume larger than it is.

This Preface would be incomplete and unjust, if I were to omit the debt I owe to my wife for
her reading of the proof-sheets, for helpful suggestions, and, above all, for her constant
encouragement.

I.N.

Kyoto, Fifth Month twenty-second, 1905.

CONTENTS

Bushido as an Ethical System

Sources of Bushido

Rectitude or Justice

Courage, the Spirit of Daring and Bearing

Benevolence, the Feeling of Distress

Politeness

Veracity or Truthfulness

Honor

The Duty of Loyalty

Education and Training of a Samurai

Self-Control

The Institutions of Suicide and Redress

The Sword, the Soul of the Samurai

The Training and Position of Woman

The Influence of Bushido

Is Bushido Still Alive?

The Future of Bushido

BUSHIDO AS AN ETHICAL SYSTEM.

Chivalry is a flower no less indigenous to the soil of Japan than its emblem, the cherry blossom;
nor is it a dried-up specimen of an antique virtue preserved in the herbarium of our history.
It is still a living object of power and beauty among us; and if it assumes no tangible shape
or form, it not the less scents the moral atmosphere, and makes us aware that we are still
under its potent spell. The conditions of society which brought it forth and nourished it have
long disappeared; but as those far-off stars which once were and are not, still continue to
shed their rays upon us, so the light of chivalry, which was a child of feudalism, still illuminates
our moral path, surviving its mother institution. It is a pleasure to me to reflect upon this
subject in the language of Burke, who uttered the well-known touching eulogy over the neglected
bier of its European prototype.

It argues a sad defect of information concerning the Far East, when so erudite a scholar as
Dr. George Miller did not hesitate to affirm that chivalry, or any other similar institution,
has never existed either among the nations of antiquity or among the modern Orientals.[2] Such
ignorance, however, is amply excusable, as the third edition of the good Doctor's work appeared
the same year that Commodore Perry was knocking at the portals of our exclusivism. More than
a decade later, about the time that our feudalism was in the last throes of existence, Carl
Marx, writing his "Capital," called the attention of his readers to the peculiar advantage
of studying the social and political institutions of feudalism, as then to be seen in living
form only in Japan. I would likewise invite the Western historical and ethical student to the
study of chivalry in the Japan of the present.

[Footnote 2: History Philosophically Illustrated, (3rd Ed. 1853), Vol. II, p. 2.]

Enticing as is a historical disquisition on the comparison between European and Japanese feudalism
and chivalry, it is not the purpose of this paper to enter into it at length. My attempt is
rather to relate, firstly, the origin and sources of our chivalry; secondly, its character
and teaching; thirdly, its influence among the masses; and, fourthly, the continuity and permanence
of its influence. Of these several points, the first will be only brief and cursory, or else
I should have to take my readers into the devious paths of our national history; the second
will be dwelt upon at greater length, as being most likely to interest students of International
Ethics and Comparative Ethology in our ways of thought and action; and the rest will be dealt
with as corollaries.

The Japanese word which I have roughly rendered Chivalry, is, in the original, more expressive
than Horsemanship. Bu-shi-do means literally Military-Knight-Ways--the ways which fighting
nobles should observe in their daily life as well as in their vocation; in a word, the "Precepts
of Knighthood," the noblesse oblige of the warrior class. Having thus given its literal significance,
I may be allowed henceforth to use the word in the original. The use of the original term is
also advisable for this reason, that a teaching so circumscribed and unique, engendering a
cast of mind and character so peculiar, so local, must wear the badge of its singularity on
its face; then, some words have a national timbre so expressive of race characteristics that
the best of translators can do them but scant justice, not to say positive injustice and grievance.
Who can improve by translation what the German "Gemüth" signifies, or who does not feel the
difference between the two words verbally so closely allied as the English gentleman and the
French gentilhomme?

Bushido, then, is the code of moral principles which the knights were required or instructed
to observe. It is not a written code; at best it consists of a few maxims handed down from
mouth to mouth or coming from the pen of some well-known warrior or savant. More frequently
it is a code unuttered and unwritten, possessing all the more the powerful sanction of veritable
deed, and of a law written on the fleshly tablets of the heart. It was founded not on the creation
of one brain, however able, or on the life of a single personage, however renowned. It was
an organic growth of decades and centuries of military career. It, perhaps, fills the same
position in the history of ethics that the English Constitution does in political history;
yet it has had nothing to compare with the Magna Charta or the Habeas Corpus Act. True, early
in the seventeenth century Military Statutes (Buké Hatto) were promulgated; but their thirteen
short articles were taken up mostly with marriages, castles, leagues, etc., and didactic regulations
were but meagerly touched upon. We cannot, therefore, point out any definite time and place
and say, "Here is its fountain head." Only as it attains consciousness in the feudal age, its
origin, in respect to time, may be identified with feudalism. But feudalism itself is woven
of many threads, and Bushido shares its intricate nature. As in England the political institutions
of feudalism may be said to date from the Norman Conquest, so we may say that in Japan its
rise was simultaneous with the ascendency of Yoritomo, late in the twelfth century. As, however,
in England, we find the social elements of feudalism far back in the period previous to William
the Conqueror, so, too, the germs of feudalism in Japan had been long existent before the period
I have mentioned.

Again, in Japan as in Europe, when feudalism was formally inaugurated, the professional class
of warriors naturally came into prominence. These were known as samurai, meaning literally,
like the old English cniht (knecht, knight), guards or attendants--resembling in character
the soldurii whom Caesar mentioned as existing in Aquitania, or the comitati, who, according
to Tacitus, followed Germanic chiefs in his time; or, to take a still later parallel, the milites
medii that one reads about in the history of Mediaeval Europe. A Sinico-Japanese word Bu-ké
or Bu-shi (Fighting Knights) was also adopted in common use. They were a privileged class,
and must originally have been a rough breed who made fighting their vocation. This class was
naturally recruited, in a long period of constant warfare, from the manliest and the most adventurous,
and all the while the process of elimination went on, the timid and the feeble being sorted
out, and only "a rude race, all masculine, with brutish strength," to borrow Emerson's phrase,
surviving to form families and the ranks of the samurai. Coming to profess great honor and
great privileges, and correspondingly great responsibilities, they soon felt the need of a
common standard of behavior, especially as they were always on a belligerent footing and belonged
to different clans. Just as physicians limit competition among themselves by professional courtesy,
just as lawyers sit in courts of honor in cases of violated etiquette, so must also warriors
possess some resort for final judgment on their misdemeanors.

Fair play in fight! What fertile germs of morality lie in this primitive sense of savagery
and childhood. Is it not the root of all military and civic virtues? And yet, who does not
know that this desire is the corner-stone on which moral structures of mighty dimensions can
be reared? May I not go even so far as to say that the gentlest and most peace-loving of religions
endorses this aspiration? This desire of Tom's is the basis on which the greatness of England
is largely built, and it will not take us long to discover that Bushido does not stand on a
lesser pedestal. If fighting in itself, be it offensive or defensive, is, as Quakers rightly
testify, brutal and wrong, we can still say with Lessing, "We know from what failings our virtue
springs."[3] "Sneaks" and "cowards" are epithets of the worst opprobrium to healthy, simple
natures. Childhood begins life with these notions, and knighthood also; but, as life grows
larger and its relations many-sided, the early faith seeks sanction from higher authority and
more rational sources for its own justification, satisfaction and development. If military
interests had operated alone, without higher moral support, how far short of chivalry would
the ideal of knighthood have fallen! In Europe, Christianity, interpreted with concessions
convenient to chivalry, infused it nevertheless with spiritual data. "Religion, war and glory
were the three souls of a perfect Christian knight," says Lamartine. In Japan there were several

SOURCES OF BUSHIDO,

of which I may begin with Buddhism. A foremost teacher of swordsmanship, when he saw his pupil
master the utmost of his art, told him, "Beyond this my instruction must give way to Zen teaching."
"Zen" is the Japanese equivalent for the Dhyâna, which "represents human effort to reach through
meditation zones of thought beyond the range of verbal expression."[4] Its method is contemplation,
and its purport, as far as I understand it, to be convinced of a principle that underlies all
phenomena, and, if it can, of the Absolute itself, and thus to put oneself in harmony with
this Absolute. Thus defined, the teaching was more than the dogma of a sect, and whoever attains
to the perception of the Absolute raises himself above mundane things and awakes, "to a new
Heaven and a new Earth."

[Footnote 3: Ruskin was one of the most gentle-hearted and peace loving men that ever lived.
Yet he believed in war with all the fervor of a worshiper of the strenuous life. Such loyalty
to the sovereign, such reverence for ancestral memory, and such filial piety as are not taught
by any other creed, were inculcated by the Shinto doctrines, imparting passivity to the otherwise
arrogant character of the samurai. Shinto theology has no place for the dogma of "original
sin." On the contrary, it believes in the innate goodness and God-like purity of the human
soul, adoring it as the adytum from which divine oracles are proclaimed. Everybody has observed
that the Shinto shrines are conspicuously devoid of objects and instruments of worship, and
that a plain mirror hung in the sanctuary forms the essential part of its furnishing. The presence
of this article, is easy to explain: it typifies the human heart, which, when perfectly placid
and clear, reflects the very image of the Deity. When you stand, therefore, in front of the
shrine to worship, you see your own image reflected on its shining surface, and the act of
worship is tantamount to the old Delphic injunction, "Know Thyself." But self-knowledge does
not imply, either in the Greek or Japanese teaching, knowledge of the physical part of man,
not his anatomy or his psycho-physics; knowledge was to be of a moral kind, the introspection
of our moral nature. Mommsen, comparing the Greek and the Roman, says that when the former
worshiped he raised his eyes to heaven, for his prayer was contemplation, while the latter
veiled his head, for his was reflection. Essentially like the Roman conception of religion,
our reflection brought into prominence not so much the moral as the national consciousness
of the individual. Its nature-worship endeared the country to our inmost souls, while its ancestor-worship,
tracing from lineage to lineage, made the Imperial family the fountain-head of the whole nation.
If what M. Boutmy[5] says is true of English royalty--that it "is not only the image of authority,
but the author and symbol of national unity," as I believe it to be, doubly and trebly may
this be affirmed of royalty in Japan.

[Footnote 5: The English People, p. 188.]

The tenets of Shintoism cover the two predominating features of the emotional life of our race--Patriotism
and Loyalty. Arthur May Knapp very truly says: "In Hebrew literature it is often difficult
to tell whether the writer is speaking of God or of the Commonwealth; of heaven or of Jerusalem;
of the Messiah or of the nation itself."[6] A similar confusion may be noticed in the nomenclature
of our national faith. I said confusion, because it will be so deemed by a logical intellect
on account of its verbal ambiguity; still, being a framework of national instinct and race
feelings, Shintoism never pretends to a systematic philosophy or a rational theology. This
religion--or, is it not more correct to say, the race emotions which this religion expressed?--thoroughly
imbued Bushido with loyalty to the sovereign and love of country. These acted more as impulses
than as doctrines; for Shintoism, unlike the Mediaeval Christian Church, prescribed to its
votaries scarcely any credenda, furnishing them at the same time with agenda of a straightforward
and simple type.

[Footnote 6: "Feudal and Modern Japan" Vol. I, p. 183.]

As to strictly ethical doctrines, the teachings of Confucius were the most prolific source
of Bushido. His enunciation of the five moral relations between master and servant (the governing
and the governed), father and son, husband and wife, older and younger brother, and between
friend and friend, was but a confirmation of what the race instinct had recognized before his
writings were introduced from China. The calm, benignant, and worldly-wise character of his
politico-ethical precepts was particularly well suited to the samurai, who formed the ruling
class. His aristocratic and conservative tone was well adapted to the requirements of these
warrior statesmen. Next to Confucius, Mencius exercised an immense authority over Bushido.
His forcible and often quite democratic theories were exceedingly taking to sympathetic natures,
and they were even thought dangerous to, and subversive of, the existing social order, hence
his works were for a long time under censure. Still, the words of this master mind found permanent
lodgment in the heart of the samurai.

The writings of Confucius and Mencius formed the principal text-books for youths and the highest
authority in discussion among the old. A mere acquaintance with the classics of these two sages
was held, however, in no high esteem. A common proverb ridicules one who has only an intellectual
knowledge of Confucius, as a man ever studious but ignorant of Analects. A typical samurai
calls a literary savant a book-smelling sot. Another compares learning to an ill-smelling vegetable
that must be boiled and boiled before it is fit for use. A man who has read a little smells
a little pedantic, and a man who has read much smells yet more so; both are alike unpleasant.
The writer meant thereby that knowledge becomes really such only when it is assimilated in
the mind of the learner and shows in his character. An intellectual specialist was considered
a machine. Intellect itself was considered subordinate to ethical emotion. Man and the universe
were conceived to be alike spiritual and ethical. Bushido could not accept the judgment of
Huxley, that the cosmic process was unmoral.

Bushido made light of knowledge as such. It was not pursued as an end in itself, but as a means
to the attainment of wisdom. Hence, he who stopped short of this end was regarded no higher
than a convenient machine, which could turn out poems and maxims at bidding. Thus, knowledge
was conceived as identical with its practical application in life; and this Socratic doctrine
found its greatest exponent in the Chinese philosopher, Wan Yang Ming, who never wearies of
repeating, "To know and to act are one and the same."

I beg leave for a moment's digression while I am on this subject, inasmuch as some of the noblest
types of bushi were strongly influenced by the teachings of this sage. Western readers will
easily recognize in his writings many parallels to the New Testament. Making allowance for
the terms peculiar to either teaching, the passage, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his
righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you," conveys a thought that may be
found on almost any page of Wan Yang Ming. A Japanese disciple[7] of his says--"The lord of
heaven and earth, of all living beings, dwelling in the heart of man, becomes his mind (Kokoro);
hence a mind is a living thing, and is ever luminous:" and again, "The spiritual light of our
essential being is pure, and is not affected by the will of man. Spontaneously springing up
in our mind, it shows what is right and wrong: it is then called conscience; it is even the
light that proceedeth from the god of heaven." How very much do these words sound like some
passages from Isaac Pennington or other philosophic mystics! I am inclined to think that the
Japanese mind, as expressed in the simple tenets of the Shinto religion, was particularly open
to the reception of Yang Ming's precepts. He carried his doctrine of the infallibility of conscience
to extreme transcendentalism, attributing to it the faculty to perceive, not only the distinction
between right and wrong, but also the nature of psychical facts and physical phenomena. He
went as far as, if not farther than, Berkeley and Fichte, in Idealism, denying the existence
of things outside of human ken. If his system had all the logical errors charged to Solipsism,
it had all the efficacy of strong conviction and its moral import in developing individuality
of character and equanimity of temper cannot be gainsaid.

[Footnote 7: Miwa Shissai.]

Thus, whatever the sources, the essential principles which Bushido imbibed from them and assimilated
to itself, were few and simple. Few and simple as these were, they were sufficient to furnish
a safe conduct of life even through the unsafest days of the most unsettled period of our nation's
history. The wholesome, unsophisticated nature of our warrior ancestors derived ample food
for their spirit from a sheaf of commonplace and fragmentary teachings, gleaned as it were
on the highways and byways of ancient thought, and, stimulated by the demands of the age, formed
from these gleanings anew and unique type of manhood. An acute French savant, M. de la Mazelière,
thus sums up his impressions of the sixteenth century:--"Toward the middle of the sixteenth
century, all is confusion in Japan, in the government, in society, in the church. But the civil
wars, the manners returning to barbarism, the necessity for each to execute justice for himself,--these
formed men comparable to those Italians of the sixteenth century, in whom Taine praises 'the
vigorous initiative, the habit of sudden resolutions and desperate undertakings, the grand
capacity to do and to suffer.' In Japan as in Italy 'the rude manners of the Middle Ages made
of man a superb animal, wholly militant and wholly resistant.' And this is why the sixteenth
century displays in the highest degree the principal quality of the Japanese race, that great
diversity which one finds there between minds (esprits) as well as between temperaments. While
in India and even in China men seem to differ chiefly in degree of energy or intelligence,
in Japan they differ by originality of character as well. Now, individuality is the sign of
superior races and of civilizations already developed. If we make use of an expression dear
to Nietzsche, we might say that in Asia, to speak of humanity is to speak of its plains; in
Japan as in Europe, one represents it above all by its mountains."

To the pervading characteristics of the men of whom M. de la Mazelière writes, let us now address
ourselves. I shall begin with

RECTITUDE OR JUSTICE,

the most cogent precept in the code of the samurai. Nothing is more loathsome to him than underhand
dealings and crooked undertakings. The conception of Rectitude may be erroneous--it may be
narrow. A well-known bushi defines it as a power of resolution;--"Rectitude is the power of
deciding upon a certain course of conduct in accordance with reason, without wavering;--to
die when it is right to die, to strike when to strike is right." Another speaks of it in the
following terms: "Rectitude is the bone that gives firmness and stature. As without bones the
head cannot rest on the top of the spine, nor hands move nor feet stand, so without rectitude
neither talent nor learning can make of a human frame a samurai. With it the lack of accomplishments
is as nothing." Mencius calls Benevolence man's mind, and Rectitude or Righteousness his path.
"How lamentable," he exclaims, "is it to neglect the path and not pursue it, to lose the mind
and not know to seek it again! When men's fowls and dogs are lost, they know to seek for them
again, but they lose their mind and do not know to seek for it." Have we not here "as in a
glass darkly" a parable propounded three hundred years later in another clime and by a greater
Teacher, who called Himself the Way of Righteousness, through whom the lost could be found?
But I stray from my point. Righteousness, according to Mencius, is a straight and narrow path
which a man ought to take to regain the lost paradise.

Even in the latter days of feudalism, when the long continuance of peace brought leisure into
the life of the warrior class, and with it dissipations of all kinds and gentle accomplishments,
the epithet Gishi (a man of rectitude) was considered superior to any name that signified mastery
of learning or art. The Forty-seven Faithfuls--of whom so much is made in our popular education--are
known in common parlance as the Forty-seven Gishi.

In times when cunning artifice was liable to pass for military tact and downright falsehood
for ruse de guerre, this manly virtue, frank and honest, was a jewel that shone the brightest
and was most highly praised. Rectitude is a twin brother to Valor, another martial virtue.
But before proceeding to speak of Valor, let me linger a little while on what I may term a
derivation from Rectitude, which, at first deviating slightly from its original, became more
and more removed from it, until its meaning was perverted in the popular acceptance. I speak
of Gi-ri, literally the Right Reason, but which came in time to mean a vague sense of duty
which public opinion expected an incumbent to fulfil. In its original and unalloyed sense,
it meant duty, pure and simple,--hence, we speak of the Giri we owe to parents, to superiors,
to inferiors, to society at large, and so forth. In these instances Giri is duty; for what
else is duty than what Right Reason demands and commands us to do. Should not Right Reason
be our categorical imperative?

Giri primarily meant no more than duty, and I dare say its etymology was derived from the fact
that in our conduct, say to our parents, though love should be the only motive, lacking that,
there must be some other authority to enforce filial piety; and they formulated this authority
in Giri. Very rightly did they formulate this authority--Giri--since if love does not rush
to deeds of virtue, recourse must be had to man's intellect and his reason must be quickened
to convince him of the necessity of acting aright. The same is true of any other moral obligation.
The instant Duty becomes onerous. Right Reason steps in to prevent our shirking it. Giri thus
understood is a severe taskmaster, with a birch-rod in his hand to make sluggards perform their
part. It is a secondary power in ethics; as a motive it is infinitely inferior to the Christian
doctrine of love, which should be the law. I deem it a product of the conditions of an artificial
society--of a society in which accident of birth and unmerited favour instituted class distinctions,
in which the family was the social unit, in which seniority of age was of more account than
superiority of talents, in which natural affections had often to succumb before arbitrary man-made
customs. Because of this very artificiality, Giri in time degenerated into a vague sense of
propriety called up to explain this and sanction that,--as, for example, why a mother must,
if need be, sacrifice all her other children in order to save the first-born; or why a daughter
must sell her chastity to get funds to pay for the father's dissipation, and the like. Starting
as Right Reason, Giri has, in my opinion, often stooped to casuistry. It has even degenerated
into cowardly fear of censure. I might say of Giri what Scott wrote of patriotism, that "as
it is the fairest, so it is often the most suspicious, mask of other feelings." Carried beyond
or below Right Reason, Giri became a monstrous misnomer. It harbored under its wings every
sort of sophistry and hypocrisy. It might easily--have been turned into a nest of cowardice,
if Bushido had not a keen and correct sense of

COURAGE, THE SPIRIT OF DARING AND BEARING,

to the consideration of which we shall now return. Courage was scarcely deemed worthy to be
counted among virtues, unless it was exercised in the cause of Righteousness. In his "Analects"
Confucius defines Courage by explaining, as is often his wont, what its negative is. "Perceiving
what is right," he says, "and doing it not, argues lack of courage." Put this epigram into
a positive statement, and it runs, "Courage is doing what is right." To run all kinds of hazards,
to jeopardize one's self, to rush into the jaws of death--these are too often identified with
Valor, and in the profession of arms such rashness of conduct--what Shakespeare calls, "valor
misbegot"--is unjustly applauded; but not so in the Precepts of Knighthood. Death for a cause
unworthy of dying for, was called a "dog's death." "To rush into the thick of battle and to
be slain in it," says a Prince of Mito, "is easy enough, and the merest churl is equal to the
task; but," he continues, "it is true courage to live when it is right to live, and to die
only when it is right to die," and yet the Prince had not even heard of the name of Plato,
who defines courage as "the knowledge of things that a man should fear and that he should not
fear." A distinction which is made in the West between moral and physical courage has long
been recognized among us. What samurai youth has not heard of "Great Valor" and the "Valor
of a Villein?"

Valor, Fortitude, Bravery, Fearlessness, Courage, being the qualities of soul which appeal
most easily to juvenile minds, and which can be trained by exercise and example, were, so to
speak, the most popular virtues, early emulated among the youth. Stories of military exploits
were repeated almost before boys left their mother's breast. Does a little booby cry for any
ache? The mother scolds him in this fashion: "What a coward to cry for a trifling pain! What
will you do when your arm is cut off in battle? What when you are called upon to commit harakiri?"
We all know the pathetic fortitude of a famished little boy-prince of Sendai, who in the drama
is made to say to his little page, "Seest thou those tiny sparrows in the nest, how their yellow
bills are opened wide, and now see! there comes their mother with worms to feed them. How eagerly
and happily the little ones eat! but for a samurai, when his stomach is empty, it is a disgrace
to feel hunger." Anecdotes of fortitude and bravery abound in nursery tales, though stories
of this kind are not by any means the only method of early imbuing the spirit with daring and
fearlessness. Parents, with sternness sometimes verging on cruelty, set their children to tasks
that called forth all the pluck that was in them. "Bears hurl their cubs down the gorge," they
said. Samurai's sons were let down the steep valleys of hardship, and spurred to Sisyphus-like
tasks. Occasional deprivation of food or exposure to cold, was considered a highly efficacious
test for inuring them to endurance. Children of tender age were sent among utter strangers
with some message to deliver, were made to rise before the sun, and before breakfast attend
to their reading exercises, walking to their teacher with bare feet in the cold of winter;
they frequently--once or twice a month, as on the festival of a god of learning,--came together
in small groups and passed the night without sleep, in reading aloud by turns. Pilgrimages
to all sorts of uncanny places--to execution grounds, to graveyards, to houses reputed to be
haunted, were favorite pastimes of the young. In the days when decapitation was public, not
only were small boys sent to witness the ghastly scene, but they were made to visit alone the
place in the darkness of night and there to leave a mark of their visit on the trunkless head.

Does this ultra-Spartan system of "drilling the nerves" strike the modern pedagogist with horror
and doubt--doubt whether the tendency would not be brutalizing, nipping in the bud the tender
emotions of the heart? Let us see what other concepts Bushido had of Valor.

The spiritual aspect of valor is evidenced by composure--calm presence of mind. Tranquillity
is courage in repose. It is a statical manifestation of valor, as daring deeds are a dynamical.
A truly brave man is ever serene; he is never taken by surprise; nothing ruffles the equanimity
of his spirit. In the heat of battle he remains cool; in the midst of catastrophes he keeps
level his mind. Earthquakes do not shake him, he laughs at storms. We admire him as truly great,
who, in the menacing presence of danger or death, retains his self-possession; who, for instance,
can compose a poem under impending peril or hum a strain in the face of death. Such indulgence
betraying no tremor in the writing or in the voice, is taken as an infallible index of a large
nature--of what we call a capacious mind (yoyū), which, for from being pressed or crowded,
has always room for something more.

It passes current among us as a piece of authentic history, that as Ōta Dokan, the great builder
of the castle of Tokyo, was pierced through with a spear, his assassin, knowing the poetical
predilection of his victim, accompanied his thrust with this couplet--

    "Ah! how in moments like these
     Our heart doth grudge the light of life;"

whereupon the expiring hero, not one whit daunted by the mortal wound in his side, added the
lines--

    "Had not in hours of peace,
     It learned to lightly look on life."

There is even a sportive element in a courageous nature. Things which are serious to ordinary
people, may be but play to the valiant. Hence in old warfare it was not at all rare for the
parties to a conflict to exchange repartee or to begin a rhetorical contest. To explain what I
mean, I may add that even in philosophy an attempt has been made
to make use of a mystery. Pascal, for example, who was at once a pietist,
a mathematician, a philosopher, says in this threefold capacity: God
is everywhere center and nowhere periphery.

Malebranche has also the just remark: Liberty is a mystery. One could go a step further and maintain
that in religions everything is mystery. For to impart truth, in the proper sense of the word, to the
multitude in its raw state is absolutely impossible; all that can fall to its lot is to be
edify by a mythological reflection of it. Naked truth is out of place
before the eyes of the profane vulgar it can only make its appearance
thickly veiled.

    Hence, it is unreasonable to require of a religion that it shall be true
in the proper sense of the word; and this, I may observe in passing,
is now- a- days the absurd contention of Rationalists and Supernaturalists alike.
Both start from the position that religion must be the real truth; and
while the former demonstrate that it is not the truth, the latter
obstinately maintain that it is; or rather, the former dress up and
arrange the allegorical element in such a way, that, in the proper
sense of the word, it could be true, but would be, in that case, a
platitude; while the latter wish to maintain that it is true in the
proper sense of the word, without any further dressing; a belief,
which, as we ought to know is only to be enforced by inquisitions
and the stake.

    As a fact, however, myth and allegory really form the proper element
of religion; and under this indispensable condition, which is imposed
by the intellectual limitation of the multitude, religion provides
a sufficient satisfaction for those metaphysical requirements of mankind
which are indestructible.

Philalethes. Ah! just as a wooden leg takes the place of a natural one; it supplies what is lacking,
barely does duty for it, claims to be regarded as a natural leg, and
is more or less artfully put together.

The only difference is that, whilst a natural leg as a rule preceded
the wooden one, religion has everywhere got the start of philosophy.

Demopheles. That may be, but still for a man who hasn' t a natural leg, a wooden one is of great
service. You must bear in mind that the metaphysical needs of mankind absolutely require satisfaction,
because the horizon of men' s thoughts must have a background and not remain unbounded. Man has,
as a rule, no faculty for weighing reasons and discriminating between what is false and what is
true; and besides, the labor which nature and the needs of nature impose upon him, leaves him no time for such enquiries,
or for the education which they presuppose. Authority, however, is an affair of time and
circumstance alone, and so it can' t be bestowed on that which has only reason in its favor,
it must accordingly be allowed to nothing but what has acquired it in the course of history, even
if it is only an allegorical representation of truth. Truth in this form, supported by authority,
appeals first of all to those elements in the human constitution which are strictly metaphysical,
that is to say, to the need man feels of a theory in regard to the riddle of existence which forces
itself upon his notice, a need arising from the consciousness that
behind the physical in the world there is a metaphysical, something
permanent as the foundation of constant change.

Then it appeals to the will, to the fears and hopes of mortal beings
living in constant struggle; for whom, accordingly, religion creates
gods and demons whom they can cry to, appease and win over.

Finally, it appeals to that moral consciousness which is undeniably present in man, lends to
it that corroboration and support without which it would not easily maintain itself in the struggle
against so many temptations.

Philalethes. That is certainly the strong point of religion. If it is a fraud, it is a pious fraud;
that is undeniable of. But this makes priests something between deceivers and teachers of morality;
they daren' t teach the real truth, as you have quite rightly explained, even if they knew it,
which in the proper understanding of the word, not merely in that flowery or allegorical sense
which you have described; a sense in which all religions would be true, only in various degrees.
This might, indeed, be regarded as the cachet of the moral world. However, we won' t give up the hope
that mankind will eventually reach a point of maturity and education at which it can on the one
side produce, and on the other receive, the true philosophy. Simplex sigillum veri: the naked truth
must be so simple and intelligible that it can be imparted to all in its true form, without any admixture
of myth and fable, without disguising it in the form of religion.
Demopheles. You' ve no notion how stupid most people are. Philalethes.
I am only expressing a hope which I can' t give up.

If it were fulfilled, truth in its simple and intelligible form would
of course drive religion from the place it has so long occupied is
not the case.

A true philosophy, then, can always exist, but not a true religion;
true, I mean, as its representative, and by that very means kept open
for it.

The time would have come when religion would have carried out her object and completed her course: the race she
had brought to years of discretion she could dismiss, and herself
depart in peace: that would be the euthanasia of religion. But as long
as she lives, she has two faces, one of truth, one of fraud.

According as you look at one or the other, you will bear her favor or ill- will. Religion must be regarded
as a necessary evil, its necessity resting on the pitiful imbecility of the great majority of mankind,
incapable of grasping the truth, and therefore requiring, in its pressing need, something to
take its place. Demopheles. Really, one would think that you philosophers had truth in a cupboard,
and that all you had to do was to go and get it! Philalethes. Well, if we haven' t got it, it is chiefly owing
to the pressure put upon philosophy by religion at all times and in all
places.

People have tried to make the expression and communication of truth,
even the contemplation and discovery of it, impossible, by putting
children, in their earliest years, into the hands of priests to be
manipulated; to have the lines, in which their fundamental thoughts
are henceforth to run, laid down with such firmness as, in essential
matters, to be fixed and determined for this whole life.

When I take up the writings even of the best intellects events which I have indicated, you may always
observe that faith and knowledge are related as the two scales of a balance; when the one goes up,
the other goes? Demopheles. Even if the true philosophy were to be discovered, religion wouldn' t disappear
from the world, as you seem to think. There can' t be one system of metaphysics for everybody; that'
s rendered impossible by the natural differences of intellectual power between man and man, and the
differences, too, which education makes. It is a necessity for the great majority of mankind
to engage in that severe bodily labor which cannot be dispensed with if the ceaseless requirements of the
whole race are to be satisfied. Not only does this leave the majority no time for education, for
learning, for contemplation; but by virtue of the hard and fast antagonism
between muscles and mind, the intelligence is blunted by so much exhausting
bodily labor, and becomes heavy, clumsy, awkward, and consequently
incapable of grasping any other than quite simple situations.

It must be easily understood, and at the same time possess, on the proper points,
a certain amount of obscurity, even of impenetrability; then a correct
and satisfactory system of morality must be bound up with its dogmas;
above all, it must afford inexhaustible consolation in suffering and
death; the consequence of all this is, that it can only be true in
an allegorical and not in a real sense.

Further, it must have the support of an authority which is impressive by its great age, by being
universally recognized, by its documents, their tone and utterances; qualities which are so extremely
difficult to combine that many a man wouldn' t be so ready, if he considered
the matter, to help to undermine a religion, but would reflect that
what he is attacking is a people' s most sacred treasure.

If you want to form an opinion on religion, you should always bear
in mind the character of the great multitude for which it is destined, and
form a picture to yourself of its complete inferiority, moral and intellectual.
It is incredible how far this inferiority goes, and how perseveringly
a spark of truth will glimmer on even under the crudest covering
of monstrous fable or grotesque ceremony, clinging indestructibly,
like the odor of musk, to everything that has once come into contact
with it.

In illustration of this, consider the profound wisdom of the Upanishads, and then look at the mad
idolatry in the India of to- day, with its pilgrimages, processions and festivities, or at the
insane and ridiculous goings- on of the Saniassi. Still one can' t deny
that in all this insanity and nonsense there lies some obscure purpose
which accords with, or is a reflection of the profound wisdom I mentioned.

But for the brute multitude, it had to be dressed up in this form. In such a contrast as this we
have the two poles of humanity, the wisdom of the individual and the bestiality of the many,
both of which find their point of contact in the moral sphere. That saying
from the Kurral must occur to everybody. Base people look like men,
but I have never seen their exact counterpart.

The man of education may, all the same, interpret religion to himself cum grano salis; the man of learning,
the contemplative spirit may secretly exchange it for a philosophy. But here again one philosophy wouldn'
t suit everybody; by the laws of affinity every system would draw to itself that public to whose
education and capacities it was most suited. So there is always an inferior metaphysical system of
the schools for the educated multitude, and a higher one for the élite. Kant' s lofty doctrine, for instance,
had to be degraded to the level of the schools and ruined by such men as Fries, Krug and Salat.
In short, here, if anywhere, Goethe' s maxim is true, One does not suit
all. And this is rendered necessary by the immeasurable differences
which nature and education have placed between man and man.

Philalethes. The view you take reminds me seriously of the mysteries of the ancients, which you mentioned
just now. Their fundamental purpose seems to have been to remedy the evil arising from the differences
of intellectual capacity and.

The plan was, out of the great multitude utterly impervious to unveiled truth, to select certain
persons who might have it revealed to them up to a given point; out of these, again, to choose others
to whom more would be revealed, as being able to grasp more; and so on up to the Epopts.
These grades correspond to the little, greater and greatest mysteries.

The arrangement was founded on a correct estimate of the intellectual inequality of mankind. Demopheles.
To some extent the education in our lower, middle and high schools
corresponds to the varying grades of initiation into the mysteries.

Philalethes. Demopheles. However that may be, I wanted to remind you that you should look at religion
more from the practical than from the theoretical side. Personified metaphysics may be the enemy
of religion, but all the same personified morality will be its friend. Perhaps the metaphysical
element in all religions is false; but the moral element in all is true. This might perhaps be presumed
from the fact they all disagree in their metaphysics, but are in accord as regards morality. Philalethes.
Which is an illustration of the rule of logic that false premises may give a true conclusion.
Demopheles. Let me hold you to your conclusion: let me remind you
that religion has two sides.

You don' t seem to me to possess a proper idea of the difference, wide as the heavens asunder,
the deep gulf between your man of learning and enlightenment, accustomed to the process of thinking,
and the heavy, clumsy, dull and sluggish consciousness of humanity' s beasts of burden, whose thoughts
have once and for all taken the direction of anxiety about their livelihood, and cannot be
put in motion in any other; whose muscular strength is so exclusively brought into play that the nervous
power, which makes intelligence, sinks to a very low ebb.

People like that must have something tangible which they can lay
hold of on the slippery and thorny pathway of their life, some sort
of beautiful fable, by means of which things can be imparted to them
which their crude intelligence can entertain only in picture and parable.

Profound explanations and fine distinctions are thrown away upon them.
If you conceive religion in this light, and recollect that its aims
are above all practical, and only in a subordinate degree theoretical,
it will appear to you as something worthy of the highest respect.

Philalethes. A respect which will finally rest upon the principle that the end sanctifies the means. I don'
t feel in favor of a compromise on a basis like that.

Religion may be an excellent means of training the perverse, obtuse
and ill- disposed members of the biped race: in the eyes of the friend
of truth every fraud, even though it be a pious one, is to be condemned.

A system of deception, a pack of lies, would be a strange means of inculcating
virtue.

The flag to which I have taken the oath is truth; I shall remain faithful
to it everywhere, and whether I succeed or not, I shall fight for light and
truth! If I see religion on the wrong side-- Demopheles. But you won'
t. Religion isn' t a deception: it is true and the most important
of all truths.

Because its doctrines are, as I have said, of such a lofty kind that the multitude can' t grasp
them admiration without an intermediary, because, I say, its light
would blind the ordinary eye, it comes forward wrapt in the veil of
allegory and teaches, not indeed what is exactly true in itself, but
what is true in respect of the lofty meaning contained in it; and,
understood in this way, religion is the truth.

Philalethes. It would be all right if religion were only at liberty to be true in a merely allegorical sense.
Demopheles. The deception is a sine qua non. If religion were to admit that
it was only the allegorical meaning in its doctrine which was true, it
would rob itself of all efficacy. Such rigorous treatment as this
would destroy its invaluable influence on the hearts and morals of mankind.
Instead of insisting on that with pedantic obstinacy, look at its great achievements
in the practical sphere, its furtherance of good and kindly feelings,
its guidance in conduct, the beauty support and consolation it gives
to suffering humanity in life and death.

How much you ought to guard against letting theoretical cavils discredit in the eyes of the multitude,
and finally wrest from it, something which is an inexhaustible source of consolation and tranquillity,
something which, in its hard lot, it needs so much, even more than we do. On that score alone, religion
should be free from attack. Philalethes.

With that kind of argument you could have driven Luther from the field,
when he attacked the sale of indulgences. How many a one got consolation
from the letters of indulgence, a consolation which nothing else
could give, a complete tranquillity; so that he joyfully departed
with the fullest confidence in the packet of them which he held in
his hand at the hour of death, convinced that they were so many cards
of admission to all the nine heavens.

    
     
     

What is the
use of grounds of consolation and tranquillity which are constantly overshadowed
by the Damocles- sword of illusion? The truth, my dear sir, is the
only safe thing; the truth alone remains steadfast and trusty; it
is the only solid consolation; it is the indestructible diamond.

Demopheles. Yes, if you had
truth in your pocket, ready to favor us with it on demand. All you'
ve got are metaphysical systems, in which nothing is certain but the
headaches they cost.

Before you take anything away, you must have something better to put
in its place.

Philalethes.
That' s what you keep on saying. To free a man from error is to give,
not to take away. Knowledge that a thing is false is a truth down.
of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries,( more especially if I
have been engaged in Oriental studies) I am sometimes shocked to see
how they are paralyzed and hemmed in on all sides by Jewish thought.

How can anyone think
out the true philosophy when he is prepared like this.

Error always does harm; sooner or later it will bring mischief to
the man who harbors it.

Then give up deceiving people; confess ignorance of what
you don' t know, and leave everyone to form his own articles of faith
for himself. Perhaps they won' t turn out so bad, especially as they'
ll rub one another' s corners down, and mutually rectify mistakes.
The existence of many views will at any rate lay a foundation of tolerance.
Those who possess knowledge and capacity may betake themselves to the
study of philosophy, or even in their own persons carry the history
of philosophy a step further.

Demopheles. That' ll be a pretty business! A whole nation of raw metaphysicians,
wrangling and eventually coming to blows with one another!

    
     
     Philalethes.

These have been the result of popular metaphysics imposed from without; so I stick to the old
saying that you can' t get grapes from thistles, nor expect good to come from a pack of lies. Demopheles.
How often must I repeat that religion is anything but a pack of lies? It is truth itself, only in a
mythical, allegorical vesture. But when you spoke of your plan of everyone being his own founder
of religion, I wanted to say that a particularism like this is totally opposed to human nature, and would
consequently destroy all social order. Man is a metaphysical animal,-- that is to say, he has paramount
metaphysical necessities; accordingly, he conceives life above all in its metaphysical
signification, and wishes to bring everything into line with that. Consequently,
however strange it may sound in view of the uncertainty of all dogmas,
agreement in the fundamentals of metaphysics is the chief thing, because
a genuine and lasting bond of union is only possible among those who
are of one opinion on these points.

As a result of this, the main point of likeness and of contrast between
nations is rather religion than government, or even language; and
so the fabric of society, the State, will stand firm only when founded
on a system of metaphysics which is acknowledged by all.

This, of course, can only be a popular system,-- that is, a religion: it becomes part and parcel of the
constitution of the State, of all the public manifestations of the national
life, and also of all solemn acts of individuals. In China there are three faiths, it
is true, of which the most prevalent-- Buddhism-- is precisely the one
which is not protected by the State; still, there is a saying in
China, universally acknowledged, and of daily application, that"
the three faiths are only one,"-- that is to say, they agree in essentials.

The Emperor confesses all three together at the same time. In the
same way, the European princes hold their place" by the grace of God:"
and the Pope is the vicegerent of God. Accordingly, as his throne was
the highest, he used to wish all thrones to be regarded as held in
fee from him.

In the same way, too, Archbishops and Bishops, as such, temporal power; and in England they still have seats and votes
in the Upper House. Protestant princes, as such, are heads of their churches: in England, a few
years ago, this was a girl eighteen years old.

By the revolt from the Pope, the Reformation shattered the European fabric,
and in a special degree dissolved the true unity of Germany by destroying
its common religious faith. This union, which had practically come to an end,
had, accordingly, to be restored later on by artificial and purely
political means.

You see, then, how closely connected a common faith is with the social order and the constitution of
every State. Faith is everywhere the support of the laws and the constitution, the foundation, therefore,
of the social fabric, which could hardly hold together at all if religion did not lend weight
to the authority of government and the dignity of the ruler.

Philalethes. Oh, yes, princes use God as a kind of bogey to frighten grown- up children to bed with,
if nothing else avails: that' s why they attach so much importance
to the Deity.

Very well. Let me, in passing, recommend our rulers to give their serious attentiveness, regularly twice
every year, to the fifteenth chapter of the First Book of Samuel,
that they may be constantly reminded of what it means to prop the
throne on the altar.

Besides, since the stake, that ultima ration theologorum, has gone
out of fashion, this method of government has lost its efficacy.

For, as you know, religions are like glow- worms; they shine only when it is dark. Church and
Faith were compelled to disappear in the same proportion; and so
in the eighteenth century English and French philosophers were able
to take up an attitude of direct hostility; until, finally, under
Frederick the Great, Kant appeared, and took away from religious belief
the support it had previously enjoyed from philosophy: he emancipated
the handmaid of theology, and in attacking the question with German
thoroughness and patience, gave it an earnest instead of a frivolous
tone.

The consequence of this is that we see Christianity undermined in the nineteenth century, a serious faith
in it almost completely gone; we see it fighting even for bare existence, whilst anxious princes
try to set it up a little by artificial means, as a doctor uses a drug on a dying patient.
In this connection there is a passage in Condorcet' s" Des Progrès de l' esprit humain" which looks as
if written as a warning to our age:" the religious zeal shown by philosophers and great men was only
a political devotion; and every religion which allows itself to be defended as a belief that may
usefully be left to the people, can only hope for an agony more or less prolonged." In the whole course
of the So sensitive is the balance that it indicates momentary influences.
 In America, when you make a gift, you sing its praises
to the recipient; in Japan we depreciate or slander it. The underlying idea with you is, "This
is a nice gift: if it were not nice I would not dare give it to you; for it will be an insult
to give you anything but what is nice." In contrast to this, our logic runs: "You are a nice
person, and no gift is nice enough for you. You will not accept anything I can lay at your
feet except as a token of my good will; so accept this, not for its intrinsic value, but as
a token. It will be an insult to your worth to call the best gift good enough for you." Place
the two ideas side by side; and we see that the ultimate idea is one and the same. Neither
is "awfully funny." The American speaks of the material which makes the gift; the Japanese
speaks of the spirit which prompts the gift.

It is perverse reasoning to conclude, because our sense of propriety shows itself in all the
smallest ramifications of our deportment, to take the least important of them and uphold it
as the type, and pass judgment upon the principle itself. Which is more important, to eat or
to observe rules of propriety about eating? A Chinese sage answers, "If you take a case where
the eating is all-important, and the observing the rules of propriety is of little importance,
and compare them together, why merely say that the eating is of the more importance?" "Metal
is heavier than feathers," but does that saying have reference to a single clasp of metal and
a wagon-load of feathers? Take a piece of wood a foot thick and raise it above the pinnacle
of a temple, none would call it taller than the temple. To the question, "Which is the more
important, to tell the truth or to be polite?" the Japanese are said to give an answer diametrically
opposite to what the American will say,--but I forbear any comment until I come to speak of

VERACITY OR TRUTHFULNESS,

without which Politeness is a farce and a show. "Propriety carried beyond right bounds," says
Masamuné, "becomes a lie." An ancient poet has outdone Polonius in the advice he gives: "To
thyself be faithful: if in thy heart thou strayest not from truth, without prayer of thine
the Gods will keep thee whole." The apotheosis of Sincerity to which Tsu-tsu gives expression
in the Doctrine of the Mean, attributes to it transcendental powers, almost identifying them
with the Divine. "Sincerity is the end and the beginning of all things; without Sincerity there
would be nothing." He then dwells with eloquence on its far-reaching and long enduring nature,
its power to produce changes without movement and by its mere presence to accomplish its purpose
without effort. From the Chinese ideogram for Sincerity, which is a combination of "Word" and
"Perfect," one is tempted to draw a parallel between it and the Neo-Platonic doctrine of Logos--to
such height does the sage soar in his unwonted mystic flight.

Lying or equivocation were deemed equally cowardly. The bushi held that his high social position
demanded a loftier standard of veracity than that of the tradesman and peasant. Bushi no ichi-gon--the
word of a samurai or in exact German equivalent ein Ritterwort--was sufficient guaranty of
the truthfulness of an assertion. His word carried such weight with it that promises were generally
made and fulfilled without a written pledge, which would have been deemed quite beneath his
dignity. Many thrilling anecdotes were told of those who atoned by death for ni-gon, a double
tongue.

The regard for veracity was so high that, unlike the generality of Christians who persistently
violate the plain commands of the Teacher not to swear, the best of samurai looked upon an
oath as derogatory to their honor. I am well aware that they did swear by different deities
or upon their swords; but never has swearing degenerated into wanton form and irreverent interjection.
To emphasize our words a practice of literally sealing with blood was sometimes resorted to.
For the explanation of such a practice, I need only refer my readers to Goethe's Faust.

A recent American writer is responsible for this statement, that if you ask an ordinary Japanese
which is better, to tell a falsehood or be impolite, he will not hesitate to answer "to tell
a falsehood!" Dr. Peery[14] is partly right and partly wrong; right in that an ordinary Japanese,
even a samurai, may answer in the way ascribed to him, but wrong in attributing too much weight
to the term he translates "falsehood." This word (in Japanese uso) is employed to denote anything
which is not a truth (makoto) or fact (honto). Lowell tells us that Wordsworth could not distinguish
between truth and fact, and an ordinary Japanese is in this respect as good as Wordsworth.
Ask a Japanese, or even an American of any refinement, to tell you whether he dislikes you
or whether he is sick at his stomach, and he will not hesitate long to tell falsehoods and
answer, "I like you much," or, "I am quite well, thank you." To sacrifice truth merely for
the sake of politeness was regarded as an "empty form" (kyo-rei) and "deception by sweet words,"
and was never justified.

[Footnote 14: Peery, The Gist of Japan, p. 86.]

I own I am speaking now of the Bushido idea of veracity; but it may not be amiss to devote
a few words to our commercial integrity, of which I have heard much complaint in foreign books
and journals. A loose business morality has indeed been the worst blot on our national reputation;
but before abusing it or hastily condemning the whole race for it, let us calmly study it and
we shall be rewarded with consolation for the future.

Of all the great occupations of life, none was farther removed from the profession of arms
than commerce. The merchant was placed lowest in the category of vocations,--the knight, the
tiller of the soil, the mechanic, the merchant. The samurai derived his income from land and
could even indulge, if he had a mind to, in amateur farming; but the counter and abacus were
abhorred. We knew the wisdom of this social arrangement. Montesquieu has made it clear that
the debarring of the nobility from mercantile pursuits was an admirable social policy, in that
it prevented wealth from accumulating in the hands of the powerful. The separation of power
and riches kept the distribution of the latter more nearly equable. Professor Dill, the author
of "Roman Society in the Last Century of the Western Empire," has brought afresh to our mind
that one cause of the decadence of the Roman Empire, was the permission given to the nobility
to engage in trade, and the consequent monopoly of wealth and power by a minority of the senatorial
families.

Commerce, therefore, in feudal Japan did not reach that degree of development which it would
have attained under freer conditions. The obloquy attached to the calling naturally brought
within its pale such as cared little for social repute. "Call one a thief and he will steal:"
put a stigma on a calling and its followers adjust their morals to it, for it is natural that
"the normal conscience," as Hugh Black says, "rises to the demands made on it, and easily falls
to the limit of the standard expected from it." It is unnecessary to add that no business,
commercial or otherwise, can be transacted without a code of morals. Our merchants of the feudal
period had one among themselves, without which they could never have developed, as they did,
such fundamental mercantile institutions as the guild, the bank, the bourse, insurance, checks,
bills of exchange, etc.; but in their relations with people outside their vocation, the tradesmen
lived too true to the reputation of their order.

This being the case, when the country was opened to foreign trade, only the most adventurous
and unscrupulous rushed to the ports, while the respectable business houses declined for some
time the repeated requests of the authorities to establish branch houses. Was Bushido powerless
to stay the current of commercial dishonor? Let us see.

Those who are well acquainted with our history will remember that only a few years after our
treaty ports were opened to foreign trade, feudalism was abolished, and when with it the samurai's
fiefs were taken and bonds issued to them in compensation, they were given liberty to invest
them in mercantile transactions. Now you may ask, "Why could they not bring their much boasted
veracity into their new business relations and so reform the old abuses?" Those who had eyes
to see could not weep enough, those who had hearts to feel could not sympathize enough, with
the fate of many a noble and honest samurai who signally and irrevocably failed in his new
and unfamiliar field of trade and industry, through sheer lack of shrewdness in coping with
his artful plebeian rival. When we know that eighty per cent. of the business houses fail in
so industrial a country as America, is it any wonder that scarcely one among a hundred samurai
who went into trade could succeed in his new vocation? It will be long before it will be recognized
how many fortunes were wrecked in the attempt to apply Bushido ethics to business methods;
but it was soon patent to every observing mind that the ways of wealth were not the ways of
honor. In what respects, then, were they different?

Of the three incentives to Veracity that Lecky enumerates, viz: the industrial, the political,
and the philosophical, the first was altogether lacking in Bushido. As to the second, it could
develop little in a political community under a feudal system. It is in its philosophical,
and as Lecky says, in its highest aspect, that Honesty attained elevated rank in our catalogue
of virtues. With all my sincere regard for the high commercial integrity of the Anglo-Saxon
race, when I ask for the ultimate ground, I am told that "Honesty is the best policy," that
it pays to be honest. Is not this virtue, then, its own reward? If it is followed because it
brings in more cash than falsehood, I am afraid Bushido would rather indulge in lies!

If Bushido rejects a doctrine of quid pro quo rewards, the shrewder tradesman will readily
accept it. Lecky has very truly remarked that Veracity owes its growth largely to commerce
and manufacture; as Nietzsche puts it, "Honesty is the youngest of virtues"--in other words,
it is the foster-child of industry, of modern industry. Without this mother, Veracity was like
a blue-blood orphan whom only the most cultivated mind could adopt and nourish. Such minds
were general among the samurai, but, for want of a more democratic and utilitarian foster-mother,
the tender child failed to thrive. Industries advancing, Veracity will prove an easy, nay,
a profitable, virtue to practice. Just think, as late as November 1880, Bismarck sent a circular
to the professional consuls of the German Empire, warning them of "a lamentable lack of reliability
with regard to German shipments inter alia, apparent both as to quality and quantity;" now-a-days
we hear comparatively little of German carelessness and dishonesty in trade. In twenty years
her merchants learned that in the end honesty pays. Already our merchants are finding that
out. For the rest I recommend the reader to two recent writers for well-weighed judgment on
this point.[15] It is interesting to remark in this connection that integrity and honor were
the surest guaranties which even a merchant debtor could present in the form of promissory
notes. It was quite a usual thing to insert such clauses as these: "In default of the repayment
of the sum lent to me, I shall say nothing against being ridiculed in public;" or, "In case
I fail to pay you back, you may call me a fool," and the like.

[Footnote 15: Knapp, Feudal and Modern Japan, Vol. I, Ch. IV. Ransome, Japan in Transition,
Ch. VIII.]

Often have I wondered whether the Veracity of Bushido had any motive higher than courage. In
the absence of any positive commandment against bearing false witness, lying was not condemned
as sin, but simply denounced as weakness, and, as such, highly dishonorable. As a matter of
fact, the idea of honesty is so intimately blended, and its Latin and its German etymology
so identified with

HONOR,

that it is high time I should pause a few moments for the consideration of this feature of
the Precepts of Knighthood.

The sense of honor, implying a vivid consciousness of personal dignity and worth, could not
fail to characterize the samurai, born and bred to value the duties and privileges of their
profession. Though the word ordinarily given now-a-days as the translation of Honor was not
used freely, yet the idea was conveyed by such terms as na (name) men-moku (countenance), guai-bun
(outside hearing), reminding us respectively of the biblical use of "name," of the evolution
of the term "personality" from the Greek mask, and of "fame." A good name--one's reputation,
the immortal part of one's self, what remains being bestial--assumed as a matter of course,
any infringement upon its integrity was felt as shame, and the sense of shame (Ren-chi-shin)
was one of the earliest to be cherished in juvenile education. "You will be laughed at," "It
will disgrace you," "Are you not ashamed?" were the last appeal to correct behavior on the
part of a youthful delinquent. Such a recourse to his honor touched the most sensitive spot
in the child's heart, as though it had been nursed on honor while it was in its mother's womb;
for most truly is honor a prenatal influence, being closely bound up with strong family consciousness.
"In losing the solidarity of families," says Balzac, "society has lost the fundamental force
which Montesquieu named Honor." Indeed, the sense of shame seems to me to be the earliest indication
of the moral consciousness of our race. The first and worst punishment which befell humanity
in consequence of tasting "the fruit of that forbidden tree" was, to my mind, not the sorrow
of childbirth, nor the thorns and thistles, but the awakening of the sense of shame. Few incidents
in history excel in pathos the scene of the first mother plying with heaving breast and tremulous
fingers, her crude needle on the few fig leaves which her dejected husband plucked for her.
This first fruit of disobedience clings to us with a tenacity that nothing else does. All the
sartorial ingenuity of mankind has not yet succeeded in sewing an apron that will efficaciously
hide our sense of shame. That samurai was right who refused to compromise his character by
a slight humiliation in his youth; "because," he said, "dishonor is like a scar on a tree,
which time, instead of effacing, only helps to enlarge."

Mencius had taught centuries before, in almost the identical phrase, what Carlyle has latterly
expressed,--namely, that "Shame is the soil of all Virtue, of good manners and good morals."

The fear of disgrace was so great that if our literature lacks such eloquence as Shakespeare
puts into the mouth of Norfolk, it nevertheless hung like Damocles' sword over the head of
every samurai and often assumed a morbid character. In the name of Honor, deeds were perpetrated
which can find no justification in the code of Bushido. At the slightest, nay, imaginary insult,
the quick-tempered braggart took offense, resorted to the use of the sword, and many an unnecessary
strife was raised and many an innocent life lost. The story of a well-meaning citizen who called
the attention of a bushi to a flea jumping on his back, and who was forthwith cut in two, for
the simple and questionable reason that inasmuch as fleas are parasites which feed on animals,
it was an unpardonable insult to identify a noble warrior with a beast--I say, stories like
these are too frivolous to believe. Yet, the circulation of such stories implies three things;
(1) that they were invented to overawe common people; (2) that abuses were really made of the
samurai's profession of honor; and (3) that a very strong sense of shame was developed among
them. It is plainly unfair to take an abnormal case to cast blame upon the Precepts, any more
than to judge of the true teaching of Christ from the fruits of religious fanaticism and extravagance--inquisitions
and hypocrisy. But, as in religious monomania there is something touchingly noble, as compared
with the delirium tremens of a drunkard, so in that extreme sensitiveness of the samurai about
their honor do we not recognize the substratum of a genuine virtue?

The morbid excess into which the delicate code of honor was inclined to run was strongly counterbalanced
by preaching magnanimity and patience. To take offense at slight provocation was ridiculed
as "short-tempered." The popular adage said: "To bear what you think you cannot bear is really
to bear." The great Iyéyasu left to posterity a few maxims, among which are the following:--"The
life of man is like going a long distance with a heavy load upon the shoulders. Haste not.
* * * * Reproach none, but be forever watchful of thine own short-comings. * * * Forbearance
is the basis of length of days." He proved in his life what he preached. A literary wit put
a characteristic epigram into the mouths of three well-known personages in our history: to
Nobunaga he attributed, "I will kill her, if the nightingale sings not in time;" to Hidéyoshi,
"I will force her to sing for me;" and to Iyéyasu, "I will wait till she opens her lips."

Patience and long suffering were also highly commended by Mencius. In one place he writes to
this effect: "Though you denude yourself and insult me, what is that to me? You cannot defile
my soul by your outrage." Elsewhere he teaches that anger at a petty offense is unworthy a
superior man, but indignation for a great cause is righteous wrath.

To what height of unmartial and unresisting meekness Bushido could reach in some of its votaries,
may be seen in their utterances. Take, for instance, this saying of Ogawa: "When others speak
all manner of evil things against thee, return not evil for evil, but rather reflect that thou
wast not more faithful in the discharge of thy duties." Take another of Kumazawa:--"When others
blame thee, blame them not; when others are angry at thee, return not anger. Joy cometh only
as Passion and Desire part." Still another instance I may cite from Saigo, upon whose overhanging
brows "shame is ashamed to sit;"--"The Way is the way of Heaven and Earth: Man's place is to
follow it: therefore make it the object of thy life to reverence Heaven. Heaven loves me and
others with equal love; therefore with the love wherewith thou lovest thyself, love others.
Make not Man thy partner but Heaven, and making Heaven thy partner do thy best. Never condemn
others; but see to it that thou comest not short of thine own mark." Some of those sayings
remind us of Christian expostulations and show us how far in practical morality natural religion
can approach the revealed. Not only did these sayings remain as utterances, but they were really
embodied in acts.

It must be admitted that very few attained this sublime height of magnanimity, patience and
forgiveness. It was a great pity that nothing clear and general was expressed as to what constitutes
Honor, only a few enlightened minds being aware that it "from no condition rises," but that
it lies in each acting well his part: for nothing was easier than for youths to forget in the
heat of action what they had learned in Mencius in their calmer moments. Said this sage, "'Tis
in every man's mind to love honor: but little doth he dream that what is truly honorable lies
within himself and not anywhere else. The honor which men confer is not good honor. Those whom
Châo the Great ennobles, he can make mean again."

For the most part, an insult was quickly resented and repaid by death, as we shall see later,
while Honor--too often nothing higher than vain glory or worldly approbation--was prized as
the summum bonum of earthly existence. Fame, and not wealth or knowledge, was the goal toward
which youths had to strive. Many a lad swore within himself as he crossed the threshold of
his paternal home, that he would not recross it until he had made a name in the world: and
many an ambitious mother refused to see her sons again unless they could "return home," as
the expression is, "caparisoned in brocade." To shun shame or win a name, samurai boys would
submit to any privations and undergo severest ordeals of bodily or mental suffering. They knew
that honor won in youth grows with age. In the memorable siege of Osaka, a young son of Iyéyasu,
in spite of his earnest entreaties to be put in the vanguard, was placed at the rear of the
army. When the castle fell, he was so chagrined and wept so bitterly that an old councillor
tried to console him with all the resources at his command. "Take comfort, Sire," said he,
"at thought of the long future before you. In the many years that you may live, there will
come divers occasions to distinguish yourself." The boy fixed his indignant gaze upon the man
and said--"How foolishly you talk! Can ever my fourteenth year come round again?"

Life itself was thought cheap if honor and fame could be attained therewith: hence, whenever
a cause presented itself which was considered dearer than life, with utmost serenity and celerity
was life laid down.

Of the causes in comparison with which no life was too dear to sacrifice, was

THE DUTY OF LOYALTY,

which was the key-stone making feudal virtues a symmetrical arch. Other virtues feudal morality
shares in common with other systems of ethics, with other classes of people, but this virtue--homage
and fealty to a superior--is its distinctive feature. I am aware that personal fidelity is
a moral adhesion existing among all sorts and conditions of men,--a gang of pickpockets owe
allegiance to a Fagin; but it is only in the code of chivalrous honor that Loyalty assumes
paramount importance.

In spite of Hegel's criticism that the fidelity of feudal vassals, being an obligation to an
individual and not to a Commonwealth, is a bond established on totally unjust principles,[16]
a great compatriot of his made it his boast that personal loyalty was a German virtue. Bismarck
had good reason to do so, not because the Treue he boasts of was the monopoly of his Fatherland
or of any single nation or race, but because this favored fruit of chivalry lingers latest
among the people where feudalism has lasted longest. In America where "everybody is as good
as anybody else," and, as the Irishman added, "better too," such exalted ideas of loyalty as
we feel for our sovereign may be deemed "excellent within certain bounds," but preposterous
as encouraged among us. Montesquieu complained long ago that right on one side of the Pyrenees
was wrong on the other, and the recent Dreyfus trial proved the truth of his remark, save that
the Pyrenees were not the sole boundary beyond which French justice finds no accord. Similarly,
Loyalty as we conceive it may find few admirers elsewhere, not because our conception is wrong,
but because it is, I am afraid, forgotten, and also because we carry it to a degree not reached
in any other country. Griffis[17] was quite right in stating that whereas in China Confucian
ethics made obedience to parents the primary human duty, in Japan precedence was given to Loyalty.
At the risk of shocking some of my good readers, I will relate of one "who could endure to
follow a fall'n lord" and who thus, as Shakespeare assures, "earned a place i' the story."

[Footnote 16: Philosophy of History (Eng. trans. by Sibree), Pt. IV, Sec. II, Ch. I.]

[Footnote 17: Religions of Japan.]

The story is of one of the purest characters in our history, Michizané, who, falling a victim
to jealousy and calumny, is exiled from the capital. Not content with this, his unrelenting
enemies are now bent upon the extinction of his family. Strict search for his son--not yet
grown--reveals the fact of his being secreted in a village school kept by one Genzo, a former
vassal of Michizané. When orders are dispatched to the schoolmaster to deliver the head of
the juvenile offender on a certain day, his first idea is to find a suitable substitute for
it. He ponders over his school-list, scrutinizes with careful eyes all the boys, as they stroll
into the class-room, but none among the children born of the soil bears the least resemblance
to his protégé. His despair, however, is but for a moment; for, behold, a new scholar is announced--a
comely boy of the same age as his master's son, escorted by a mother of noble mien. No less
conscious of the resemblance between infant lord and infant retainer, were the mother and the
boy himself. In the privacy of home both had laid themselves upon the altar; the one his life,--the
other her heart, yet without sign to the outer world. Unwitting of what had passed between
them, it is the teacher from whom comes the suggestion.

Here, then, is the scape-goat!--The rest of the narrative may be briefly told.--On the day
appointed, arrives the officer commissioned to identify and receive the head of the youth.
Will he be deceived by the false head? The poor Genzo's hand is on the hilt of the sword, ready
to strike a blow either at the man or at himself, should the examination defeat his scheme.
The officer takes up the gruesome object before him, goes calmly over each feature, and in
a deliberate, business-like tone, pronounces it genuine.--That evening in a lonely home awaits
the mother we saw in the school. Does she know the fate of her child? It is not for his return
that she watches with eagerness for the opening of the wicket. Her father-in-law has been for
a long time a recipient of Michizané's bounties, but since his banishment circumstances have
forced her husband to follow the service of the enemy of his family's benefactor. He himself
could not be untrue to his own cruel master; but his son could serve the cause of the grandsire's
lord. As one acquainted with the exile's family, it was he who had been entrusted with the
task of identifying the boy's head. Now the day's--yea, the life's--hard work is done, he returns
home and as he crosses its threshold, he accosts his wife, saying: "Rejoice, my wife, our darling
son has proved of service to his lord!"

"What an atrocious story!" I hear my readers exclaim,--"Parents deliberately sacrificing their
own innocent child to save the life of another man's." But this child was a conscious and willing
victim: it is a story of vicarious death--as significant as, and not more revolting than, the
story of Abraham's intended sacrifice of Isaac. In both cases it was obedience to the call
of duty, utter submission to the command of a higher voice, whether given by a visible or an
invisible angel, or heard by an outward or an inward ear;--but I abstain from preaching.

The individualism of the West, which recognizes separate interests for father and son, husband
and wife, necessarily brings into strong relief the duties owed by one to the other; but Bushido
held that the interest of the family and of the members thereof is intact,--one and inseparable.
This interest it bound up with affection--natural, instinctive, irresistible; hence, if we
die for one we love with natural love (which animals themselves possess), what is that? "For
if ye love them that love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same?"

In his great history, Sanyo relates in touching language the heart struggle of Shigemori concerning
his father's rebellious conduct. "If I be loyal, my father must be undone; if I obey my father,
my duty to my sovereign must go amiss." Poor Shigemori! We see him afterward praying with all
his soul that kind Heaven may visit him with death, that he may be released from this world
where it is hard for purity and righteousness to dwell.

Many a Shigemori has his heart torn by the conflict between duty and affection. Indeed neither
Shakespeare nor the Old Testament itself contains an adequate rendering of ko, our conception
of filial piety, and yet in such conflicts Bushido never wavered in its choice of Loyalty.
Women, too, encouraged their offspring to sacrifice all for the king. Ever as resolute as Widow
Windham and her illustrious consort, the samurai matron stood ready to give up her boys for
the cause of Loyalty.

Since Bushido, like Aristotle and some modern sociologists, conceived the state as antedating
the individual--the latter being born into the former as part and parcel thereof--he must live
and die for it or for the incumbent of its legitimate authority. Readers of Crito will remember
the argument with which Socrates represents the laws of the city as pleading with him on the
subject of his escape. Among others he makes them (the laws, or the state) say:--"Since you
were begotten and nurtured and educated under us, dare you once to say you are not our offspring
and servant, you and your fathers before you!" These are words which do not impress us as any
thing extraordinary; for the same thing has long been on the lips of Bushido, with this modification,
that the laws and the state were represented with us by a personal being. Loyalty is an ethical
outcome of this political theory.

I am not entirely ignorant of Mr. Spencer's view according to which political obedience--Loyalty--is
accredited with only a transitional function.[18] It may be so. Sufficient unto the day is
the virtue thereof. We may complacently repeat it, especially as we believe that day to be
a long space of time, during which, so our national anthem says, "tiny pebbles grow into mighty
rocks draped with moss." We may remember at this juncture that even among so democratic a people
as the English, "the sentiment of personal fidelity to a man and his posterity which their
Germanic ancestors felt for their chiefs, has," as Monsieur Boutmy recently said, "only passed
more or less into their profound loyalty to the race and blood of their princes, as evidenced
in their extraordinary attachment to the dynasty."

[Footnote 18: Principles of Ethics, Vol. I, Pt. II, Ch. X.]

Political subordination, Mr. Spencer predicts, will give place to loyalty to the dictates of
conscience. Suppose his induction is realized--will loyalty and its concomitant instinct of
reverence disappear forever? We transfer our allegiance from one master to another, without
being unfaithful to either; from being subjects of a ruler that wields the temporal sceptre
we become servants of the monarch who sits enthroned in the penetralia of our heart. A few
years ago a very stupid controversy, started by the misguided disciples of Spencer, made havoc
among the reading class of Japan. In their zeal to uphold the claim of the throne to undivided
loyalty, they charged Christians with treasonable propensities in that they avow fidelity to
their Lord and Master. They arrayed forth sophistical arguments without the wit of Sophists,
and scholastic tortuosities minus the niceties of the Schoolmen. Did not Socrates, all the
while he unflinchingly refused to concede one iota of loyalty to his daemon, obey with equal
fidelity and equanimity the command of his earthly master, the State? His conscience he followed,
alive; his country he served, dying. Alack the day when a state grows so powerful as to demand
of its citizens the dictates of their conscience!

Bushido did not require us to make our conscience the slave of any lord or king. Thomas Mowbray
was a veritable spokesman for us when he said:

    "Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot.
     My life thou shalt command, but not my shame.
     The one my duty owes; but my fair name,
     Despite of death, that lives upon my grave,
     To dark dishonor's use, thou shalt not have."

A man who sacrificed his own conscience to the capricious will or freak or fancy of a sovereign
was accorded a low place in the estimate of the Precepts. Such an one was despised as nei-shin,
a cringeling, who makes court by unscrupulous fawning or as chô-shin, a favorite who steals
his master's affections by means of servile compliance; these two species of subjects corresponding
exactly to those which Iago describes,--the one, a duteous and knee-crooking knave, doting
on his own obsequious bondage, wearing out his time much like his master's ass; the other trimm'd
in forms and visages of duty, keeping yet his heart attending on himself. When a subject differed
from his master, the loyal path for him to pursue was to use every available means to persuade
him of his error, as Kent did to King Lear. Failing in this, let the master deal with him as
he wills. In cases of this kind, it was quite a usual course for the samurai to make the last
appeal to the intelligence and conscience of his lord by demonstrating the sincerity of his
words with the shedding of his own blood.

Life being regarded as the means whereby to serve his master, and its ideal being set upon
honor, the whole

EDUCATION AND TRAINING OF A SAMURAI,

were conducted accordingly.

The first point to observe in knightly pedagogics was to build up character, leaving in the
shade the subtler faculties of prudence, intelligence and dialectics. We have seen the important
part aesthetic accomplishments played in his education. Indispensable as they were to a man
of culture, they were accessories rather than essentials of samurai training. Intellectual
superiority was, of course, esteemed; but the word Chi, which was employed to denote intellectuality,
meant wisdom in the first instance and placed knowledge only in a very subordinate place. The
tripod that supported the framework of Bushido was said to be Chi, Jin, Yu, respectively Wisdom,
Benevolence, and Courage. A samurai was essentially a man of action. Science was without the
pale of his activity. He took advantage of it in so far as it concerned his profession of arms.
Religion and theology were relegated to the priests; he concerned himself with them in so far
as they helped to nourish courage. Like an English poet the samurai believed "'tis not the
creed that saves the man; but it is the man that justifies the creed." Philosophy and literature
formed the chief part of his intellectual training; but even in the pursuit of these, it was
not objective truth that he strove after,--literature was pursued mainly as a pastime, and
philosophy as a practical aid in the formation of character, if not for the exposition of some
military or political problem.

From what has been said, it will not be surprising to note that the curriculum of studies,
according to the pedagogics of Bushido, consisted mainly of the following,--fencing, archery,
jiujutsu or yawara, horsemanship, the use of the spear, tactics, caligraphy, ethics, literature
and history. Of these, jiujutsu and caligraphy may require a few words of explanation. Great
stress was laid on good writing, probably because our logograms, partaking as they do of the
nature of pictures, possess artistic value, and also because chirography was accepted as indicative
of one's personal character. Jiujutsu may be briefly defined as an application of anatomical
knowledge to the purpose of offense or defense. It differs from wrestling, in that it does
not depend upon muscular strength. It differs from other forms of attack in that it uses no
weapon. Its feat consists in clutching or striking such part of the enemy's body as will make
him numb and incapable of resistance. Its object is not to kill, but to incapacitate one for
action for the time being.

A subject of study which one would expect to find in military education and which is rather
conspicuous by its absence in the Bushido course of instruction, is mathematics. This, however,
can be readily explained in part by the fact that feudal warfare was not carried on with scientific
precision. Not only that, but the whole training of the samurai was unfavorable to fostering
numerical notions.

Chivalry is uneconomical; it boasts of penury. It says with Ventidius that "ambition, the soldier's
virtue, rather makes choice of loss, than gain which darkens him." Don Quixote takes more pride
in his rusty spear and skin-and-bone horse than in gold and lands, and a samurai is in hearty
sympathy with his exaggerated confrère of La Mancha. He disdains money itself,--the art of
making or hoarding it. It is to him veritably filthy lucre. The hackneyed expression to describe
the decadence of an age is "that the civilians loved money and the soldiers feared death."
Niggardliness of gold and of life excites as much disapprobation as their lavish use is panegyrized.
"Less than all things," says a current precept, "men must grudge money: it is by riches that
wisdom is hindered." Hence children were brought up with utter disregard of economy. It was
considered bad taste to speak of it, and ignorance of the value of different coins was a token
of good breeding. Knowledge of numbers was indispensable in the mustering of forces as well,
as in the distribution of benefices and fiefs; but the counting of money was left to meaner
hands. In many feudatories, public finance was administered by a lower kind of samurai or by
priests. Every thinking bushi knew well enough that money formed the sinews of war; but he
did not think of raising the appreciation of money to a virtue. It is true that thrift was
enjoined by Bushido, but not for economical reasons so much as for the exercise of abstinence.
Luxury was thought the greatest menace to manhood, and severest simplicity was required of
the warrior class, sumptuary laws being enforced in many of the clans.

We read that in ancient Rome the farmers of revenue and other financial agents were gradually
raised to the rank of knights, the State thereby showing its appreciation of their service
and of the importance of money itself. How closely this was connected with the luxury and avarice
of the Romans may be imagined. Not so with the Precepts of Knighthood. These persisted in systematically
regarding finance as something low--low as compared with moral and intellectual vocations.

Money and the love of it being thus diligently ignored, Bushido itself could long remain free
from a thousand and one evils of which money is the root. This is sufficient reason for the
fact that our public men have long been free from corruption; but, alas, how fast plutocracy
is making its way in our time and generation!

The mental discipline which would now-a-days be chiefly aided by the study of mathematics,
was supplied by literary exegesis and deontological discussions. Very few abstract subjects
troubled the mind of the young, the chief aim of their education being, as I have said, decision
of character. People whose minds were simply stored with information found no great admirers.
Of the three services of studies that Bacon gives,--for delight, ornament, and ability,--Bushido
had decided preference for the last, where their use was "in judgment and the disposition of
business." Whether it was for the disposition of public business or for the exercise of self-control,
it was with a practical end in view that education was conducted. "Learning without thought,"
said Confucius, "is labor lost: thought without learning is perilous."

When character and not intelligence, when the soul and not the head, is chosen by a teacher
for the material to work upon and to develop, his vocation partakes of a sacred character.
"It is the parent who has borne me: it is the teacher who makes me man." With this idea, therefore,
the esteem in which one's preceptor was held was very high. A man to evoke such confidence
and respect from the young, must necessarily be endowed with superior personality without lacking
erudition. He was a father to the fatherless, and an adviser to the erring. "Thy father and
thy mother"--so runs our maxim--"are like heaven and earth; thy teacher and thy lord are like
the sun and moon."

The present system of paying for every sort of service was not in vogue among the adherents
of Bushido. It believed in a service which can be rendered only without money and without price.
Spiritual service, be it of priest or teacher, was not to be repaid in gold or silver, not
because it was valueless but because it was invaluable. Here the non-arithmetical honor-instinct
of Bushido taught a truer lesson than modern Political Economy; for wages and salaries can
be paid only for services whose results are definite, tangible, and measurable, whereas the
best service done in education,--namely, in soul development (and this includes the services
of a pastor), is not definite, tangible or measurable. Being immeasurable, money, the ostensible
measure of value, is of inadequate use. Usage sanctioned that pupils brought to their teachers
money or goods at different seasons of the year; but these were not payments but offerings,
which indeed were welcome to the recipients as they were usually men of stern calibre, boasting
of honorable penury, too dignified to work with their hands and too proud to beg. They were
grave personifications of high spirits undaunted by adversity. They were an embodiment of what
was considered as an end of all learning, and were thus a living example of that discipline
of disciplines,

SELF-CONTROL,

which was universally required of samurai.

The discipline of fortitude on the one hand, inculcating endurance without a groan, and the
teaching of politeness on the other, requiring us not to mar the pleasure or serenity of another
by manifestations of our own sorrow or pain, combined to engender a stoical turn of mind, and
eventually to confirm it into a national trait of apparent stoicism. I say apparent stoicism,
because I do not believe that true stoicism can ever become the characteristic of a whole nation,
and also because some of our national manners and customs may seem to a foreign observer hard-hearted.
Yet we are really as susceptible to tender emotion as any race under the sky.

I am inclined to think that in one sense we have to feel more than others--yes, doubly more--since
the very attempt to, restrain natural promptings entails suffering. Imagine boys--and girls
too--brought up not to resort to the shedding of a tear or the uttering of a groan for the
relief of their feelings,--and there is a physiological problem whether such effort steels
their nerves or makes them more sensitive.

It was considered unmanly for a samurai to betray his emotions on his face. "He shows no sign
of joy or anger," was a phrase used in describing a strong character. The most natural affections
were kept under control. A father could embrace his son only at the expense of his dignity;
a husband would not kiss his wife,--no, not in the presence of other people, whatever he might
do in private! There may be some truth in the remark of a witty youth when he said, "American
husbands kiss their wives in public and beat them in private; Japanese husbands beat theirs
in public and kiss them in private."

Calmness of behavior, composure of mind, should not be disturbed by passion of any kind. I
remember when, during the late war with China, a regiment left a certain town, a large concourse
of people flocked to the station to bid farewell to the general and his army. On this occasion
an American resident resorted to the place, expecting to witness loud demonstrations, as the
nation itself was highly excited and there were fathers, mothers, and sweethearts of the soldiers
in the crowd. The American was strangely disappointed; for as the whistle blew and the train
began to move, the hats of thousands of people were silently taken off and their heads bowed
in reverential farewell; no waving of handkerchiefs, no word uttered, but deep silence in which
only an attentive ear could catch a few broken sobs. In domestic life, too, I know of a father
who spent whole nights listening to the breathing of a sick child, standing behind the door
that he might not be caught in such an act of parental weakness! I know of a mother who, in
her last moments, refrained from sending for her son, that he might not be disturbed in his
studies. Our history and everyday life are replete with examples of heroic matrons who can
well bear comparison with some of the most touching pages of Plutarch. Among our peasantry
an Ian Maclaren would be sure to find many a Marget Howe.

It is the same discipline of self-restraint which is accountable for the absence of more frequent
revivals in the Christian churches of Japan. When a man or woman feels his or her soul stirred,
the first instinct is to quietly suppress any indication of it. In rare instances is the tongue
set free by an irresistible spirit, when we have eloquence of sincerity and fervor. It is putting
a premium upon a breach of the third commandment to encourage speaking lightly of spiritual
experience. It is truly jarring to Japanese ears to hear the most sacred words, the most secret
heart experiences, thrown out in promiscuous audiences. "Dost thou feel the soil of thy soul
stirred with tender thoughts? It is time for seeds to sprout. Disturb it not with speech; but
let it work alone in quietness and secrecy,"--writes a young samurai in his diary.

To give in so many articulate words one's inmost thoughts and feelings--notably the religious--is
taken among us as an unmistakable sign that they are neither very profound nor very sincere.
"Only a pomegranate is he"--so runs a popular saying--"who, when he gapes his mouth, displays
the contents of his heart."

It is not altogether perverseness of oriental minds that the instant our emotions are moved
we try to guard our lips in order to hide them. Speech is very often with us, as the Frenchman
defined it, "the art of concealing thought."

Call upon a Japanese friend in time of deepest affliction and he will invariably receive you
laughing, with red eyes or moist cheeks. At first you may think him hysterical. Press him for
explanation and you will get a few broken commonplaces--"Human life has sorrow;" "They who
meet must part;" "He that is born must die;" "It is foolish to count the years of a child that
is gone, but a woman's heart will indulge in follies;" and the like. So the noble words of
a noble Hohenzollern--"Lerne zu leiden ohne Klagen"--had found many responsive minds among
us, long before they were uttered.

Indeed, the Japanese have recourse to risibility whenever the frailties of human nature are
put to severest test. I think we possess a better reason than Democritus himself for our Abderian
tendency; for laughter with us oftenest veils an effort to regain balance of temper, when disturbed
by any untoward circumstance. It is a counterpoise of sorrow or rage.

The suppression of feelings being thus steadily insisted upon, they find their safety-valve
in poetical aphorism. A poet of the tenth century writes, "In Japan and China as well, humanity,
when moved by sorrow, tells its bitter grief in verse." A mother who tries to console her broken
heart by fancying her departed child absent on his wonted chase after the dragon-fly, hums,

    "How far to-day in chase, I wonder,
     Has gone my hunter of the dragon-fly!"

I refrain from quoting other examples, for I know I could do only scant justice to the pearly
gems of our literature, were I to render into a foreign tongue the thoughts which were wrung
drop by drop from bleeding hearts and threaded into beads of rarest value. I hope I have in
a measure shown that inner working of our minds which often presents an appearance of callousness
or of an hysterical mixture of laughter and dejection, and whose sanity is sometimes called
in question.

It has also been suggested that our endurance of pain and indifference to death are due to
less sensitive nerves. This is plausible as far as it goes. The next question is,--Why are
our nerves less tightly strung? It may be our climate is not so stimulating as the American.
It may be our monarchical form of government does not excite us as much as the Republic does
the Frenchman. It may be that we do not read Sartor Resartus as zealously as the Englishman.
Personally, I believe it was our very excitability and sensitiveness which made it a necessity
to recognize and enforce constant self-repression; but whatever may be the explanation, without
taking into account long years of discipline in self-control, none can be correct.

Discipline in self-control can easily go too far. It can well repress the genial current of
the soul. It can force pliant natures into distortions and monstrosities. It can beget bigotry,
breed hypocrisy or hebetate affections. Be a virtue never so noble, it has its counterpart
and counterfeit. We must recognize in each virtue its own positive excellence and follow its
positive ideal, and the ideal of self-restraint is to keep our mind level--as our expression
is--or, to borrow a Greek term, attain the state of euthymia, which Democritus called the highest
good.

The acme of self-control is reached and best illustrated in the first of the two institutions
which we shall now bring to view; namely,

THE INSTITUTIONS OF SUICIDE AND REDRESS,

of which (the former known as hara-kiri and the latter as kataki-uchi )many foreign writers
have treated more or less fully.

To begin with suicide, let me state that I confine my observations only to seppuku or kappuku,
popularly known as hara-kiri--which means self-immolation by disembowelment. "Ripping the abdomen?
How absurd!"--so cry those to whom the name is new. Absurdly odd as it may sound at first to
foreign ears, it can not be so very foreign to students of Shakespeare, who puts these words
in Brutus' mouth--"Thy (Caesar's) spirit walks abroad and turns our swords into our proper
entrails." Listen to a modern English poet, who in his Light of Asia, speaks of a sword piercing
the bowels of a queen:--none blames him for bad English or breach of modesty. Or, to take still
another example, look at Guercino's painting of Cato's death, in the Palazzo Rossa in Genoa.
Whoever has read the swan-song which Addison makes Cato sing, will not jeer at the sword half-buried
in his abdomen. In our minds this mode of death is associated with instances of noblest deeds
and of most touching pathos, so that nothing repugnant, much less ludicrous, mars our conception
of it. So wonderful is the transforming power of virtue, of greatness, of tenderness, that
the vilest form of death assumes a sublimity and becomes a symbol of new life, or else--the
sign which Constantine beheld would not conquer the world!

Not for extraneous associations only does seppuku lose in our mind any taint of absurdity;
for the choice of this particular part of the body to operate upon, was based on an old anatomical
belief as to the seat of the soul and of the affections. When Moses wrote of Joseph's "bowels
yearning upon his brother," or David prayed the Lord not to forget his bowels, or when Isaiah,
Jeremiah and other inspired men of old spoke of the "sounding" or the "troubling" of bowels,
they all and each endorsed the belief prevalent among the Japanese that in the abdomen was
enshrined the soul. The Semites habitually spoke of the liver and kidneys and surrounding fat
as the seat of emotion and of life. The term hara was more comprehensive than the Greek phren
or thumos and the Japanese and Hellenese alike thought the spirit of man to dwell somewhere
in that region. Such a notion is by no means confined to the peoples of antiquity. The French,
in spite of the theory propounded by one of their most distinguished philosophers, Descartes,
that the soul is located in the pineal gland, still insist in using the term ventre in a sense,
which, if anatomically too vague, is nevertheless physiologically significant. Similarly entrailles
stands in their language for affection and compassion. Nor is such belief mere superstition,
being more scientific than the general idea of making the heart the centre of the feelings.
Without asking a friar, the Japanese knew better than Romeo "in what vile part of this anatomy
one's name did lodge." Modern neurologists speak of the abdominal and pelvic brains, denoting
thereby sympathetic nerve-centres in those parts which are strongly affected by any psychical
action. This view of mental physiology once admitted, the syllogism of seppuku is easy to construct.
"I will open the seat of my soul and show you how it fares with it. See for yourself whether
it is polluted or clean."

I do not wish to be understood as asserting religious or even moral justification of suicide,
but the high estimate placed upon honor was ample excuse with many for taking one's own life.
How many acquiesced in the sentiment expressed by Garth,

    "When honor's lost, 'tis a relief to die;
     Death's but a sure retreat from infamy,"

and have smilingly surrendered their souls to oblivion! Death when honor was involved, was
accepted in Bushido as a key to the solution of many complex problems, so that to an ambitious
samurai a natural departure from life seemed a rather tame affair and a consummation not devoutly
to be wished for. I dare say that many good Christians, if only they are honest enough, will
confess the fascination of, if not positive admiration for, the sublime composure with which
Cato, Brutus, Petronius and a host of other ancient worthies, terminated their own earthly
existence. Is it too bold to hint that the death of the first of the philosophers was partly
suicidal? When we are told so minutely by his pupils how their master willingly submitted to
the mandate of the state--which he knew was morally mistaken--in spite of the possibilities
of escape, and how he took up the cup of hemlock in his own hand, even offering libation from
its deadly contents, do we not discern in his whole proceeding and demeanor, an act of self-immolation?
No physical compulsion here, as in ordinary cases of execution. True the verdict of the judges
was compulsory: it said, "Thou shalt die,--and that by thy own hand." If suicide meant no more
than dying by one's own hand, Socrates was a clear case of suicide. But nobody would charge
him with the crime; Plato, who was averse to it, would not call his master a suicide.

Now my readers will understand that seppuku was not a mere suicidal process. It was an institution,
legal and ceremonial. An invention of the middle ages, it was a process by which warriors could
expiate their crimes, apologize for errors, escape from disgrace, redeem their friends, or
prove their sincerity. When enforced as a legal punishment, it was practiced with due ceremony.
It was a refinement of self-destruction, and none could perform it without the utmost coolness
of temper and composure of demeanor, and for these reasons it was particularly befitting the
profession of bushi.

Antiquarian curiosity, if nothing else, would tempt me to give here a description of this obsolete
ceremonial; but seeing that such a description was made by a far abler writer, whose book is
not much read now-a-days, I am tempted to make a somewhat lengthy quotation. The ceremony being
at an end, we left the temple."

I might multiply any number of descriptions of seppuku from literature or from the relation
of eye-witnesses; but one more instance will suffice.

Two brothers, Sakon and Naiki, respectively twenty-four and seventeen years of age, made an
effort to kill Iyéyasu in order to avenge their father's wrongs; but before they could enter
the camp they were made prisoners. The old general admired the pluck of the youths who dared
an attempt on his life and ordered that they should be allowed to die an honorable death. Their
little brother Hachimaro, a mere infant of eight summers, was condemned to a similar fate,
as the sentence was pronounced on all the male members of the family, and the three were taken
to a monastery where it was to be executed. A physician who was present on the occasion has
left us a diary from which the following scene is translated. Moreover, the dynamic spiritual process
cannot be comprehended by conceptual thought, by the categories of a rationalistic science and philosophy,
but only by itself, by the living experience of a free agent. It is moral truth that both sets us free
and demonstrates our freedom, and that makes harmony possible between the mechanical theory of, science
and the teleological conception of philosophy. Between the ages
of nineteen and twenty- two he wrote a number of able treatises in
the spirit of the new idealism, and was recognized as the most talented
pupil of Fichte and his best interpreter.

Among
them we mention: General Outline of the Science of Knowledge, 1810( trans. by Smith); The Facts
of Consciousness, 1813; Theory of the State, published 1820. In claiming a place for the autonomous personality
in what appeared to be a mechanical universe, Kant gave voice to some of the deeper yearnings of
the age.

In seeking to rescue it, the great criticist, piloted by the moral
law, steered his course between the rocks of rationalism, sentimentalism,
and scepticism.

The German Enlightenment, the new humanism, mysticism, pietism, and the
faith- philosophy were all interested in the human soul, and unwilling
to sacrifice itself to the ego in an inner vision.

The appearance of an article Concerning the Ground of our Belief in a Divine World- Order, 1798, in which
Fichte seemed to identify God with the moral world- order, brought down upon him the charge of atheism,
against which he vigorously defended himself in his Appeal to the Public and a series of other writings.
The bankruptcy of the intelligence was overcome in their systems by the discovery of a faculty
that revealed to them the living, dynamic nature of the universe. But there is another source of knowledge:
in an act of inner vision or intellectual intuition, which is itself
an act of freedom, we become conscious of the universal moral purpose;
the law of duty or the categorical imperative commands us to be free
persons.

The ego- principle itself, however, without which there could be no knowledge, cannot be grasped
by the ordinary discursive understanding with its spatial, temporal, and causal categories.
They likewise accepted the idea of development which the leaders of German literature, Lessing,
Herder, and Goethe, had already opposed to the unhistorical Aufklärung, and which came to play such
a prominent part in the great system of Hegel. With the Enlightenment it glorifies reason, the free personality,
nationality, humanity, civilization, and progress; in this regard it
expresses the spirit of all modern philosophy.

    
       
     Through the generosity of a nobleman, the gifted
       lad was enabled to follow
     his intellectual bent; after attending the schools at Meissen and
Schulpforta he studied theology at the universities of Jena, Leipzig,
and Wittenberg with the purpose of entering the ministry.

New editions of particular works are now appearing. The universal ego is a moral ego, an ego with an ethical
purpose, that realizes itself in nature and in man; it is, therefore, the vocation of man to obey
the voice of duty and to free himself from the bondage of nature, to be a person, not a thing, to coöperate
in the realization of the eternal purpose which is working itself out in the history of humanity, to sacrifice
himself for the ideal of freedom.

The anonymous publication of his book, Attempt at a Critique of all Revelation, in 1792, written
from the Kantian point of view and mistaken at first for a work of the great criticist, won him fame
and a professorship at Jena( 1794). It revolutionized his entire mode of thought and determined
the course of his life. rumors During the last period of his life he devoted himself to the development
of his thoughts in systematic form and wrote a number of books; most of these were published after
his death, which occurred January 27, 1814. During the Jena period he laid the foundations for
his" Science of Knowledge" Philosophy must, therefore, be Wissenschaftslehre, for in it all natural and mental
sciences find their ultimate roots; they can yield genuine knowledge
only when and in so far as they are based on the principles of the
Science of Knowledge-- mere empirical sciences having no real cognitive
value.

They followed him in his anti- intellectualism, but they did not avoid,
as he did, the attractive doctrine of an inner intuition; according
to them we can somehow grasp the supersensible in an inner experience
which Fichte called intellectual, Schelling artistic, Schleiermacher
religious.

Full of indignation over the attitude which his government assumed in the
matter, be offered his resignation( 1799) and removed to Berlin, where
he presented his philosophical notions in popular public lectures and
in writings which were characterized by clearness, force, and moral earnestness
rather than by their systematic form. By the ego Fichte did not mean
the subjective Fichte fled from Berlin to Königsberg and Sweden,
but returned when peace was declared in 1807, and delivered his celebrated
Addresses to the German Nation, 1807- 08, in which he sought to arouse
the German people to a consciousness of their national mission and
their duty even while the French army was still occupying the Prussian
capital.

Here, in the intellectual centre of Germany, Fichte became the eloquent exponent of the new idealism, which
aimed at the reform of life as well as of Wissenschaft; he not only taught philosophy, but preached it,
as Kuno Fischer has aptly said. In this sense Kant destroyed knowledge to make room for a rational faith
in a supersensible world, to save the independence and dignity of the human self and the spiritual
values of his people. The Complete Works, edited by his son, J. H. Fichte, appeared 1843- 46. His
poverty frequently compelled him to interrupt his studies by accepting private tutorships in families,
so that he never succeeded in preparing him self for the examinations. The Fichtean philosophy
holds the mirror up to its age.( Wissenschaftslehre) which he presented in numerous works: The
Conception of the Science of Knowledge, 1794; The Foundation of the Entire Science of Knowledge,
1794; The Foundation of Natural Rights, 1796; The System of Ethics, 1798--( all these by Kroeger);
the two Introductions to the Science of Knowledge, 1797( trans.
by Kroeger in Journal of Speculative Philosophy). Like Lessing and Goethe,
they were also attracted to the pantheistic teaching of Spinoza, though rejecting
its rigid determinism so far as it might affect the human will. Kant
is right: if we were limited to the scientific intellect, we could
never rise above the conception of a phenomenal order absolutely ruled
by the causal law.

They were all more or less influenced by the romantic currents of the times, seeking with Herder
and Jacobi an approach to the heart of things other than through the categories of logic. We cannot
refuse to accept this law without abandoning ourselves as persons, without conceiving ourselves as things,
or mere products of nature; the choice of one' s philosophy, therefore, depends upon what kind
of man one is-- upon one' s values, upon one afterward became his wife, was a shining light.
There could be no free action without something to act upon, and there could be no purposive
action without a world in which everything happens according to law; and such a causal world
we have in our phenomenal order, which is the product of the absolute'
s will.

And so, too, authority and tradition, as representing the instinctive and historical side of social life,
come into their own again. Fichte accepts the ego, or spirit, as the ultimate and absolute principle,
because it alone can give our life worth and meaning. They differed from Kant and among themselves in many
respects, but they all glorified the spirit, Geist, as source of ultimate truth. He also tells
us that we can become immediately aware of the pure activity of the ego, of our free action, in a
similar act of intellectual intuition. In order to make free action possible, to enable the ego to
realize its ends, nature must be what it is, an order ruled by the iron law
of causality. Fichte' company s chief interest was centred upon the
ego; nature he regarded as a product of the absolute ego in the individual
consciousness, intended as a necessary obstacle for the free will.

Fichte conceives of nature as" the material of our duty," as the obstacle against which the ego can exercise
its freedom.

The ego which Fichte conceives as universal reason becomes for them the subjective empirical self, the
unique personality, in which the unconscious, spontaneous, impulsive, instinctive phase constitutes
the original element, the more extravagant among them transforming the rational moral ego into
a romantic ego, an ego full of mystery and caprice, and even a lawless
ego. There appeared: The Vocation of Man, 1800( translated by Dr. Smith);
A Sun- Clear Statement concerning the Nature of the New Philosophy,
1801( trans. by Kroeger in Journal of Speculative Philosophy); The
Nature of the Scholar, 1806( trans. by Smith); Characteristics of
the ego, the particular individual self with all its idiosyncrasies,
but the universal ego, the reason that manifests itself in all conscious
individuals as universal and necessary truth.

Fichte was appointed professor of philosophy( 1810) in the new University of Berlin, for which he had
been invited to construct a plan and in the establishment of which he took a lively interest.
After the overthrow of Prussia by Napoleon, in 1806, Present Age, 1806( trans. by Smith); The
Way towards the Blessed Life, 1806( trans. by Smith). In his earlier period he did not define his
thought very carefully, but in time the absolute ego came to be conceived as the principle of all life
and consciousness, as universal life, and ultimately identified with God. In the categorical imperative,
and not in logical reasonings, the individual becomes aware of his destiny; in the sense of duty, the
love of truth, loyalty to country, respect for the rights of man,
and reverence for ideals, spirit speaks to spirit and man glimpses
the eternal.

Upon
such an idealistic world- view Fichte based the ethical teachings through
which he exercised a lasting influence upon the German people and the
history of human thought.

In 1790 he became acquainted with Kant' s philosophy, which two students had asked him to expound
to them, and to which he now devoted himself with feverish zeal. Every individual has his particular
place in which to labor for the social whole; how to do it, his
conscience will tell him without fail. It is Germany' s mission to regain its
nationality, in order that it may take the philosophical leadership
in the work of civilization, and to establish a State based upon personal
liberty, a veritable kingdom of justice, such as has never appeared
on earth, which shall realize freedom based upon the equality of all
who bear the human form.

The world the living, active element of reality, and they all rejected the intellect as the for
Fichte is at bottom a spiritual order, the revelation of a self- determining ego or reason; hence the
science of the ego, or reason, the Wissenschaftslehre, is the key to all knowledge, and we can understand
nature and man only when we have caught the secret of the self- active ego. Johann Gottlieb Fichte
was born in Ramenau, Oberlausitz, May 19, 1762, the son of a poor weaver. It goes beyond the Aufklärung
in emphasizing the living, moving, developing nature of reality; for it, life and consciousness
constitute the essence of things, and universal life reveals itself
in a progressive history of mankind.

His philosophy is, therefore, not subjective idealism, although it was so misinterpreted,
but objective idealism; nature is not the creation of the particular
individual ego, but the phenomenal expression, or reflection, in
the subject of the universal spiritual pillar.

Among the elements in this idealism that appealed to the Romanticists
were its anti- intellectualism, its intuition, the high value it placed
upon the personality, its historical viewpoint, and its faith in the
uniqueness of German culture. In 1798 he received it to the demands of
a rationalistic science or metaphysics. It was his solution of the
controversy between the head and the heart that influenced Fichte,
Schelling, and Schleiermacher.

Thus he grounds his entire philosophy upon a moral imperative which presents a call to a professorship
at Jena, where Fichte, Schiller, Wilhelm Schlegel, and Hegel became his colleagues, and where he entered
into friendly relations with the Romantic circle of which Caroline
Schlegel, who spiritual principle.

Such an ego is read into nature; for, filled with occult magic forces,
nature can be understood only by the sympathetic divining insight of
the poetic genius. The type of man who is a slave of things, who
cannot raise himself out of the causal mechanism, who is not free, will
never be able to conceive himself otherwise than as a cog in a wheel.
In order that we may rise to free action, opposition is needed, and
this we get in the spatial- temporal world of phenomena, or nature,
which the ego creates for itself in order to have resistance to overcome.

Without opposition the self cannot act; without overcoming resistance it cannot become free. But we
cannot know this free act unless we perform it ourselves; no one can understand the idealistic
philosophy who is not free; hence philosophy begins with an act of freedom-- im Anfang war
die Tat. After the completion of his course at the University( 1795), he became the tutor and
companion of two young noblemen with whom he remained for two years( 1796- 98) at the University
of Leipzig, during which time he devoted himself to the study of
mathematics, physics, and medicine, and published a number of philosophical
articles. Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling was born at Leonberg,
Würtemberg, January 27, 1775, the son of a learned clergyman and
writer on theology.

It was Schelling, the erstwhile follower and admirer of Fichte, who
turned his attention to the philosophy of nature and so more thoroughly
satisfied the romantic yearnings of the age. He was a precocious
child and made rapid progress in his studies, entering the Theological
Seminary at Tübingen at the age of fifteen.

The scientific understanding would plunge us into determinism and agnosticism; from these, faith in
the moral law alone can deliver us. This cheerless conception of nature-- which, however, was not Fichte'
s last word on the subject, since he afterward came to conceive it as the revelation of universal
life, or the expression of a pantheistic God-- did not attract Romanticism. They welcomed
the Wissenschaftslehre as a valuable ally, and exaggerated those features of it which seemed to chime
with their own views. This was the most productive period of his life; during the next few years
he developed his own system of philosophy and gave to the world his
most brilliant writings. And so, too, the German people has its peculiar
place in civilization the, its unique contribution to make in the
struggle of the human race for the development of free personality.


The Chinese ideogram denoting "the mysterious," "the unknowable," consists of two parts, one
meaning "young" and the other "woman," because the physical charms and delicate thoughts of
the fair sex are above the coarse mental calibre of our sex to explain.

In the Bushido ideal of woman, however, there is little mystery and only a seeming paradox.
I have said that it was Amazonian, but that is only half the truth. Ideographically the Chinese
represent wife by a woman holding a broom--certainly not to brandish it offensively or defensively
against her conjugal ally, neither for witchcraft, but for the more harmless uses for which
the besom was first invented--the idea involved being thus not less homely than the etymological
derivation of the English wife (weaver) and daughter (duhitar, milkmaid). Without confining
the sphere of woman's activity to Küche, Kirche, Kinder, as the present German Kaiser is said
to do, the Bushido ideal of womanhood was preeminently domestic. These seeming contradictions--Domesticity
and Amazonian traits--are not inconsistent with the Precepts of Knighthood, as we shall see.

Bushido being a teaching primarily intended for the masculine sex, the virtues it prized in
woman were naturally far from being distinctly feminine. Winckelmann remarks that "the supreme
beauty of Greek art is rather male than female," and Lecky adds that it was true in the moral
conception of the Greeks as in their art. Bushido similarly praised those women most "who emancipated
themselves from the frailty of their sex and displayed an heroic fortitude worthy of the strongest
and the bravest of men."[24] Young girls therefore, were trained to repress their feelings,
to indurate their nerves, to manipulate weapons,--especially the long-handled sword called
nagi-nata, so as to be able to hold their own against unexpected odds. Yet the primary motive
for exercises of this martial character was not for use in the field; it was twofold--personal
and domestic. Woman owning no suzerain of her own, formed her own bodyguard. With her weapon
she guarded her personal sanctity with as much zeal as her husband did his master's. The domestic
utility of her warlike training was in the education of her sons, as we shall see later.

[Footnote 24: Lecky, History of European Morals II, p. 383.]

Fencing and similar exercises, if rarely of practical use, were a wholesome counterbalance
to the otherwise sedentary habits of woman. But these exercises were not followed only for
hygienic purposes. They could be turned into use in times of need. Girls, when they reached
womanhood, were presented with dirks (kai-ken, pocket poniards), which might be directed to
the bosom of their assailants, or, if advisable, to their own. The latter was very often the
case: and yet I will not judge them severely. Even the Christian conscience with its horror
of self-immolation, will not be harsh with them, seeing Pelagia and Domnina, two suicides,
were canonized for their purity and piety. When a Japanese Virginia saw her chastity menaced,
she did not wait for her father's dagger. Her own weapon lay always in her bosom. It was a
disgrace to her not to know the proper way in which she had to perpetrate self-destruction.
For example, little as she was taught in anatomy, she must know the exact spot to cut in her
throat: she must know how to tie her lower limbs together with a belt so that, whatever the
agonies of death might be, her corpse be found in utmost modesty with the limbs properly composed.
Is not a caution like this worthy of the Christian Perpetua or the Vestal Cornelia? I would
not put such an abrupt interrogation, were it not for a misconception, based on our bathing
customs and other trifles, that chastity is unknown among us.[25] On the contrary, chastity
was a pre-eminent virtue of the samurai woman, held above life itself. A young woman, taken
prisoner, seeing herself in danger of violence at the hands of the rough soldiery, says she
will obey their pleasure, provided she be first allowed to write a line to her sisters, whom
war has dispersed in every direction. When the epistle is finished, off she runs to the nearest
well and saves her honor by drowning. The letter she leaves behind ends with these verses;--

    "For fear lest clouds may dim her light,
     Should she but graze this nether sphere,
     The young moon poised above the height
     Doth hastily betake to flight."

[Footnote 25: For a very sensible explanation of nudity and bathing see Finck's Lotos Time
in Japan, pp. 286-297.]

It would be unfair to give my readers an idea that masculinity alone was our highest ideal
for woman. Far from it! Accomplishments and the gentler graces of life were required of them.
Music, dancing and literature were not neglected. Some of the finest verses in our literature
were expressions of feminine sentiments; in fact, women played an important role in the history
of Japanese belles lettres. Dancing was taught (I am speaking of samurai girls and not of geisha)
only to smooth the angularity of their movements. Music was to regale the weary hours of their
fathers and husbands; hence it was not for the technique, the art as such, that music was learned;
for the ultimate object was purification of heart, since it was said that no harmony of sound
is attainable without the player's heart being in harmony with herself. Here again we see the
same idea prevailing which we notice in the training of youths--that accomplishments were ever
kept subservient to moral worth. Just enough of music and dancing to add grace and brightness
to life, but never to foster vanity and extravagance. I sympathize with the Persian prince,
who, when taken into a ball-room in London and asked to take part in the merriment, bluntly
remarked that in his country they provided a particular set of girls to do that kind of business
for them.

The accomplishments of our women were not acquired for show or social ascendency. They were
a home diversion; and if they shone in social parties, it was as the attributes of a hostess,--in
other words, as a part of the household contrivance for hospitality. Domesticity guided their
education. It may be said that the accomplishments of the women of Old Japan, be they martial
or pacific in character, were mainly intended for the home; and, however far they might roam,
they never lost sight of the hearth as the center. It was to maintain its honor and integrity
that they slaved, drudged and gave up their lives. Night and day, in tones at once firm and
tender, brave and plaintive, they sang to their little nests. As daughter, woman sacrificed
herself for her father, as wife for her husband, and as mother for her son. Thus from earliest
youth she was taught to deny herself. Her life was not one of independence, but of dependent
service. Man's helpmeet, if her presence is helpful she stays on the stage with him: if it
hinders his work, she retires behind the curtain. Not infrequently does it happen that a youth
becomes enamored of a maiden who returns his love with equal ardor, but, when she realizes
his interest in her makes him forgetful of his duties, disfigures her person that her attractions
may cease. Adzuma, the ideal wife in the minds of samurai girls, finds herself loved by a man
who, in order to win her affection, conspires against her husband. Upon pretence of joining
in the guilty plot, she manages in the dark to take her husband's place, and the sword of the
lover assassin descends upon her own devoted head.

The following epistle written by the wife of a young daimio, before taking her own life, needs
no comment:--"Oft have I heard that no accident or chance ever mars the march of events here
below, and that all moves in accordance with a plan. To take shelter under a common bough or
a drink of the same river, is alike ordained from ages prior to our birth. Since we were joined
in ties of eternal wedlock, now two short years ago, my heart hath followed thee, even as its
shadow followeth an object, inseparably bound heart to heart, loving and being loved. Learning
but recently, however, that the coming battle is to be the last of thy labor and life, take
the farewell greeting of thy loving partner. I have heard that Kō-u, the mighty warrior of
ancient China, lost a battle, loth to part with his favorite Gu. Yoshinaka, too, brave as he
was, brought disaster to his cause, too weak to bid prompt farewell to his wife. Why should
I, to whom earth no longer offers hope or joy--why should I detain thee or thy thoughts by
living? Why should I not, rather, await thee on the road which all mortal kind must sometime
tread? Never, prithee, never forget the many benefits which our good master Hideyori hath heaped
upon thee. The gratitude we owe him is as deep as the sea and as high as the hills."

Woman's surrender of herself to the good of her husband, home and family, was as willing and
honorable as the man's self-surrender to the good of his lord and country. Self-renunciation,
without which no life-enigma can be solved, was the keynote of the Loyalty of man as well as
of the Domesticity of woman. She was no more the slave of man than was her husband of his liege-lord,
and the part she played was recognized as Naijo, "the inner help." In the ascending scale of
service stood woman, who annihilated herself for man, that he might annihilate himself for
the master, that he in turn might obey heaven. I know the weakness of this teaching and that
the superiority of Christianity is nowhere more manifest than here, in that it requires of
each and every living soul direct responsibility to its Creator. Nevertheless, as far as the
doctrine of service--the serving of a cause higher than one's own self, even at the sacrifice
of one's individuality; I say the doctrine of service, which is the greatest that Christ preached
and is the sacred keynote of his mission--as far as that is concerned, Bushido is based on
eternal truth.

My readers will not accuse me of undue prejudice in favor of slavish surrender of volition.
I accept in a large measure the view advanced with breadth of learning and defended with profundity
of thought by Hegel, that history is the unfolding and realization of freedom. The point I
wish to make is that the whole teaching of Bushido was so thoroughly imbued with the spirit
of self-sacrifice, that it was required not only of woman but of man. Hence, until the influence
of its Precepts is entirely done away with, our society will not realize the view rashly expressed
by an American exponent of woman's rights, who exclaimed, "May all the daughters of Japan rise
in revolt against ancient customs!" Can such a revolt succeed? Will it improve the female status?
Will the rights they gain by such a summary process repay the loss of that sweetness of disposition,
that gentleness of manner, which are their present heritage? Was not the loss of domesticity
on the part of Roman matrons followed by moral corruption too gross to mention? Can the American
reformer assure us that a revolt of our daughters is the true course for their historical development
to take? These are grave questions. Changes must and will come without revolts! In the meantime
let us see whether the status of the fair sex under the Bushido regimen was really so bad as
to justify a revolt.

We hear much of the outward respect European knights paid to "God and the ladies,"--the incongruity
of the two terms making Gibbon blush; we are also told by Hallam that the morality of Chivalry
was coarse, that gallantry implied illicit love. The effect of Chivalry on the weaker vessel
was food for reflection on the part of philosophers, M. Guizot contending that Feudalism and
Chivalry wrought wholesome influences, while Mr. Spencer tells us that in a militant society
(and what is feudal society if not militant?) the position of woman is necessarily low, improving
only as society becomes more industrial. Now is M. Guizot's theory true of Japan, or is Mr.
Spencer's? In reply I might aver that both are right. The military class in Japan was restricted
to the samurai, comprising nearly 2,000,000 souls. Above them were the military nobles, the
daimio, and the court nobles, the kugé--these higher, sybaritical nobles being fighters only
in name. Below them were masses of the common people--mechanics, tradesmen, and peasants--whose
life was devoted to arts of peace. Thus what Herbert Spencer gives as the characteristics of
a militant type of society may be said to have been exclusively confined to the samurai class,
while those of the industrial type were applicable to the classes above and below it. This
is well illustrated by the position of woman; for in no class did she experience less freedom
than among the samurai. Strange to say, the lower the social class--as, for instance, among
small artisans--the more equal was the position of husband and wife. Among the higher nobility,
too, the difference in the relations of the sexes was less marked, chiefly because there were
few occasions to bring the differences of sex into prominence, the leisurely nobleman having
become literally effeminate. Thus Spencer's dictum was fully exemplified in Old Japan. As to
Guizot's, those who read his presentation of a feudal community will remember that he had the
higher nobility especially under consideration, so that his generalization applies to the daimio
and the kugé.

I shall be guilty of gross injustice to historical truth if my words give one a very low opinion
of the status of woman under Bushido. I do not hesitate to state that she was not treated as
man's equal; but until we learn to discriminate between difference and inequalities, there
will always be misunderstandings upon this subject.

When we think in how few respects men are equal among themselves, e.g., before law courts or
voting polls, it seems idle to trouble ourselves with a discussion on the equality of sexes.
When, the American Declaration of Independence said that all men were created equal, it had
no reference to their mental or physical gifts: it simply repeated what Ulpian long ago announced,
that before the law all men are equal. Legal rights were in this case the measure of their
equality. Were the law the only scale by which to measure the position of woman in a community,
it would be as easy to tell where she stands as to give her avoirdupois in pounds and ounces.
But the question is: Is there a correct standard in comparing the relative social position
of the sexes? Is it right, is it enough, to compare woman's status to man's as the value of
silver is compared with that of gold, and give the ratio numerically? Such a method of calculation
excludes from consideration the most important kind of value which a human being possesses;
namely, the intrinsic. In view of the manifold variety of requisites for making each sex fulfil
its earthly mission, the standard to be adopted in measuring its relative position must be
of a composite character; or, to borrow from economic language, it must be a multiple standard.
Bushido had a standard of its own and it was binomial. It tried to guage the value of woman
on the battle-field and by the hearth. There she counted for very little; here for all. The
treatment accorded her corresponded to this double measurement;--as a social-political unit
not much, while as wife and mother she received highest respect and deepest affection. Why
among so military a nation as the Romans, were their matrons so highly venerated? Was it not
because they were matrona, mothers? Not as fighters or law-givers, but as their mothers did
men bow before them. So with us. While fathers and husbands were absent in field or camp, the
government of the household was left entirely in the hands of mothers and wives. The education
of the young, even their defence, was entrusted to them. The warlike exercises of women, of
which I have spoken, were primarily to enable them intelligently to direct and follow the education
of their children.

I have noticed a rather superficial notion prevailing among half-informed foreigners, that
because the common Japanese expression for one's wife is "my rustic wife" and the like, she
is despised and held in little esteem. When it is told that such phrases as "my foolish father,"
"my swinish son," "my awkward self," etc., are in current use, is not the answer clear enough?

To me it seems that our idea of marital union goes in some ways further than the so-called
Christian. "Man and woman shall be one flesh." The individualism of the Anglo-Saxon cannot
let go of the idea that husband and wife are two persons;--hence when they disagree, their
separate rights are recognized, and when they agree, they exhaust their vocabulary in all sorts
of silly pet-names and--nonsensical blandishments. It sounds highly irrational to our ears,
when a husband or wife speaks to a third party of his other half--better or worse--as being
lovely, bright, kind, and what not. Is it good taste to speak of one's self as "my bright self,"
"my lovely disposition," and so forth? We think praising one's own wife or one's own husband
is praising a part of one's own self, and self-praise is regarded, to say the least, as bad
taste among us,--and I hope, among Christian nations too! I have diverged at some length because
the polite debasement of one's consort was a usage most in vogue among the samurai.

The Teutonic races beginning their tribal life with a superstitious awe of the fair sex (though
this is really wearing off in Germany!), and the Americans beginning their social life under
the painful consciousness of the numerical insufficiency of women[26] (who, now increasing,
are, I am afraid, fast losing the prestige their colonial mothers enjoyed), the respect man
pays to woman has in Western civilization become the chief standard of morality. But in the
martial ethics of Bushido, the main water-shed dividing the good and the bad was sought elsewhere.
It was located along the line of duty which bound man to his own divine soul and then to other
souls, in the five relations I have mentioned in the early part of this paper. Of these we
have brought to our reader's notice, Loyalty, the relation between one man as vassal and another
as lord. Upon the rest, I have only dwelt incidentally as occasion presented itself; because
they were not peculiar to Bushido. Being founded on natural affections, they could but be common
to all mankind, though in some particulars they may have been accentuated by conditions which
its teachings induced. In this connection, there comes before me the peculiar strength and
tenderness of friendship between man and man, which often added to the bond of brotherhood
a romantic attachment doubtless intensified by the separation of the sexes in youth,--a separation
which denied to affection the natural channel open to it in Western chivalry or in the free
intercourse of Anglo-Saxon lands. I might fill pages with Japanese versions of the story of
Damon and Pythias or Achilles and Patroclos, or tell in Bushido parlance of ties as sympathetic
as those which bound David and Jonathan.

[Footnote 26: I refer to those days when girls were imported from England and given in marriage
for so many pounds of tobacco, etc.]

It is not surprising, however, that the virtues and teachings unique in the Precepts of Knighthood
did not remain circumscribed to the military class. This makes us hasten to the consideration of

THE INFLUENCE OF BUSHIDO

on the nation at large.

We have brought into view only a few of the more prominent peaks which rise above the range
of knightly virtues, in themselves so much more elevated than the general level of our national
life. As the sun in its rising first tips the highest peaks with russet hue, and then gradually
casts its rays on the valley below, so the ethical system which first enlightened the military
order drew in course of time followers from amongst the masses. Democracy raises up a natural
prince for its leader, and aristocracy infuses a princely spirit among the people. Virtues
are no less contagious than vices. "There needs but one wise man in a company, and all are
wise, so rapid is the contagion," says Emerson. No social class or caste can resist the diffusive
power of moral influence.

Prate as we may of the triumphant march of Anglo-Saxon liberty, rarely has it received impetus
from the masses. Was it not rather the work of the squires and gentlemen? Very truly does M.
Taine say, "These three syllables, as used across the channel, summarize the history of English
society." Democracy may make self-confident retorts to such a statement and fling back the
question--"When Adam delved and Eve span, where then was the gentleman?" All the more pity
that a gentleman was not present in Eden! The first parents missed him sorely and paid a high
price for his absence. Had he been there, not only would the garden have been more tastefully
dressed, but they would have learned without painful experience that disobedience to Jehovah
was disloyalty and dishonor, treason and rebellion.

What Japan was she owed to the samurai. They were not only the flower of the nation but its
root as well. All the gracious gifts of Heaven flowed through them. Though they kept themselves
socially aloof from the populace, they set a moral standard for them and guided them by their
example. I admit Bushido had its esoteric and exoteric teachings; these were eudemonistic,
looking after the welfare and happiness of the commonalty, while those were aretaic, emphasizing
the practice of virtues for their own sake. Write in place of Sidney and Scott, Chikamatsu
and Bakin, and you have in a nutshell the main features of the literary history of Japan.

The innumerable avenues of popular amusement and instruction--the theatres, the story-teller's
booths, the preacher's dais, the musical recitations, the novels--have taken for their chief
theme the stories of the samurai. The peasants round the open fire in their huts never tire
of repeating the achievements of Yoshitsuné and his faithful retainer Benkei, or of the two
brave Soga brothers; the dusky urchins listen with gaping mouths until the last stick burns
out and the fire dies in its embers, still leaving their hearts aglow with the tale that is
told. The clerks and the shop-boys, after their day's work is over and the amado[27] of the
store are closed, gather together to relate the story of Nobunaga and Hidéyoshi far into the
night, until slumber overtakes their weary eyes and transports them from the drudgery of the
counter to the exploits of the field. The very babe just beginning to toddle is taught to lisp
the adventures of Momotaro, the daring conqueror of ogre-land. Even girls are so imbued with
the love of knightly deeds and virtues that, like Desdemona, they would seriously incline to
devour with greedy ear the romance of the samurai.

[Footnote 27: Outside shutters.]

The samurai grew to be the beau ideal of the whole race. "As among flowers the cherry is queen,
so among men the samurai is lord," so sang the populace. Debarred from commercial pursuits,
the military class itself did not aid commerce; but there was no channel of human activity,
no avenue of thought, which did not receive in some measure an impetus from Bushido. Intellectual
and moral Japan was directly or indirectly the work of Knighthood.

Mr. Mallock, in his exceedingly suggestive book, "Aristocracy and Evolution," has eloquently
told us that "social evolution, in so far as it is other than biological, may be defined as
the unintended result of the intentions of great men;" further, that historical progress is
produced by a struggle "not among the community generally, to live, but a struggle amongst
a small section of the community to lead, to direct, to employ, the majority in the best way."
Whatever may be said about the soundness of his argument, these statements are amply verified
in the part played by bushi in the social progress, as far as it went, of our Empire.

How the spirit of Bushido permeated all social classes is also shown in the development of
a certain order of men, known as otoko-daté, the natural leaders of democracy. Staunch fellows
were they, every inch of them strong with the strength of massive manhood. At once the spokesmen
and the guardians of popular rights, they had each a following of hundreds and thousands of
souls who proffered in the same fashion that samurai did to daimio, the willing service of
"limb and life, of body, chattels and earthly honor." Backed by a vast multitude of rash and
impetuous working-men, those born "bosses" formed a formidable check to the rampancy of the
two-sworded order.

In manifold ways has Bushido filtered down from the social class where it originated, and acted
as leaven among the masses, furnishing a moral standard for the whole people. The Precepts
of Knighthood, begun at first as the glory of the elite, became in time an aspiration and inspiration
to the nation at large; and though the populace could not attain the moral height of those
loftier souls, yet Yamato Damashii, the Soul of Japan, ultimately came to express the Volksgeist
of the Island Realm. If religion is no more than "Morality touched by emotion," as Matthew
Arnold defines it, few ethical systems are better entitled to the rank of religion than Bushido.
Motoori has put the mute utterance of the nation into words when he sings:--

    "Isles of blest Japan!
       Should your Yamato spirit
     Strangers seek to scan,
       Say--scenting morn's sun-lit air,
     Blows the cherry wild and fair!"

Yes, the sakura[28] has for ages been the favorite of our people and the emblem of our character.
Mark particularly the terms of definition which the poet uses, the words the wild cherry flower
scenting the morning sun.

[Footnote 28: Cerasus pseudo-cerasus, Lindley.]

The Yamato spirit is not a tame, tender plant, but a wild--in the sense of natural--growth;
it is indigenous to the soil; its accidental qualities it may share with the flowers of other
lands, but in its essence it remains the original, spontaneous outgrowth of our clime. But
its nativity is not its sole claim to our affection. The refinement and grace of its beauty
appeal to our aesthetic sense as no other flower can. We cannot share the admiration of the
Europeans for their roses, which lack the simplicity of our flower. Then, too, the thorns that
are hidden beneath the sweetness of the rose, the tenacity with which she clings to life, as
though loth or afraid to die rather than drop untimely, preferring to rot on her stem; her
showy colors and heavy odors--all these are traits so unlike our flower, which carries no dagger
or poison under its beauty, which is ever ready to depart life at the call of nature, whose
colors are never gorgeous, and whose light fragrance never palls. Beauty of color and of form
is limited in its showing; it is a fixed quality of existence, whereas fragrance is volatile,
ethereal as the breathing of life. So in all religious ceremonies frankincense and myrrh play
a prominent part. There is something spirituelle in redolence. When the delicious perfume of
the sakura quickens the morning air, as the sun in its course rises to illumine first the isles
of the Far East, few sensations are more serenely exhilarating than to inhale, as it were,
the very breath of beauteous day.

When the Creator himself is pictured as making new resolutions in his heart upon smelling a
sweet savor (Gen. VIII, 21), is it any wonder that the sweet-smelling season of the cherry
blossom should call forth the whole nation from their little habitations? Blame them not, if
for a time their limbs forget their toil and moil and their hearts their pangs and sorrows.
Their brief pleasure ended, they return to their daily tasks with new strength and new resolutions.
Thus in ways more than one is the sakura the flower of the nation.

Is, then, this flower, so sweet and evanescent, blown whithersoever the wind listeth, and,
shedding a puff of perfume, ready to vanish forever, is this flower the type of the Yamato
spirit? Is the Soul of Japan so frailly mortal? 

§ 2.

The soul of the is the higher, the more the individual in relation
to or as and an organic part of the State of the State in itself and
by itself. THE STATE, EMPIRES, AND ART Thus we trace we must seek for
the entire of the State upon individual life, or for the perfect branches
influence expression of the abstract vigor the unity of the State to the
unity of the individual soul, complex unity, and it is not merely
in the actions of thence to the Divine unity. In his recent book,
full of shallow asseverations and brilliant generalizations, M. LeBon[29] says, "The discoveries
due to the intelligence are the common patrimony of humanity; qualities or defects of character
constitute the exclusive patrimony of each people: they are the firm rock which the waters
must wash day by day for centuries, before they can wear away even its external asperities."
These are strong words and would be highly worth pondering over, provided there were qualities
and defects of character which constitute the exclusive patrimony of each people. Schematizing
theories of this sort had been advanced long before LeBon began to write his book, and they
were exploded long ago by Theodor Waitz and Hugh Murray. In studying the various virtues instilled
by Bushido, we have drawn upon European sources for comparison and illustrations, and we have
seen that no one quality of character was its exclusive patrimony. It is true the aggregate
of moral qualities presents a quite unique aspect. It is this aggregate which Emerson names
a "compound result into which every great force enters as an ingredient."

[Footnote 29: The Psychology of Peoples, p. 33.]

The character which Bushido stamped on our nation and on the samurai in particular, cannot
be said to form "an irreducible element of species," but nevertheless as to the vitality which
it retains there is no doubt. Were Bushido a mere physical force, the momentum it has gained
in the last seven hundred years could not stop so abruptly. Were it transmitted only by heredity,
its influence must be immensely widespread. Just think, as M. Cheysson, a French economist,
has calculated, that supposing there be three generations in a century, "each of us would have
in his veins the blood of at least twenty millions of the people living in the year 1000 A.D."
The merest peasant that grubs the soil, "bowed by the weight of centuries," has in his veins
the blood of ages, and is thus a brother to us as much as "to the ox."

An unconscious and irresistible power, Bushido has been moving the nation and individuals.
It was an honest confession of the race when Yoshida Shoin, one of the most brilliant pioneers
of Modern Japan, wrote on the eve of his execution the following stanza;--

    "Full well I knew this course must end in death;
     It was Yamato spirit urged me on
     To dare whate'er betide."

Unformulated, Bushido was and still is the animating spirit, the motor force of our country.

Mr. Ransome says that "there are three distinct Japans in existence side by side to-day,--the
old, which has not wholly died out; the new, hardly yet born except in spirit; and the transition,
passing now through its most critical throes." While this is very true in most respects, and
particularly as regards tangible and concrete institutions, the statement, as applied to fundamental
ethical notions, requires some modification; for Bushido, the maker and product of Old Japan,
is still the guiding principle of the transition and will prove the formative force of the new era.

The great statesmen who steered the ship of our state through the hurricane of the Restoration
and the whirlpool of national rejuvenation, were men who knew no other moral teaching than
the Precepts of Knighthood. Some writers[30] have lately tried to prove that the Christian
missionaries contributed an appreciable quota to the making of New Japan. I would fain render
honor to whom honor is due: but this honor can hardly be accorded to the good missionaries.
More fitting it will be to their profession to stick to the scriptural injunction of preferring
one another in honor, than to advance a claim in which they have no proofs to back them. For
myself, I believe that Christian missionaries are doing great things for Japan--in the domain
of education, and especially of moral education:--only, the mysterious though not the less
certain working of the Spirit is still hidden in divine secrecy. Whatever they do is still
of indirect effect. No, as yet Christian missions have effected but little visible in moulding
the character of New Japan. No, it was Bushido, pure and simple, that urged us on for weal
or woe. Open the biographies of the makers of Modern Japan--of Sakuma, of Saigo, of Okubo,
of Kido, not to mention the reminiscences of living men such as Ito, Okuma, Itagaki, etc.:--and
you will find that it was under the impetus of samuraihood that they thought and wrought. When
Mr. Henry Norman declared, after his study and observation of the Far East,[31] that only the
respect in which Japan differed from other oriental despotisms lay in "the ruling influence
among her people of the strictest, loftiest, and the most punctilious codes of honor that man
has ever devised," he touched the main spring which has made new Japan what she is and which
will make her what she is destined to be.

[Footnote 30: Speer; Missions and Politics in Asia, Lecture IV, pp. 189-190; Dennis: Christian
Missions and Social Progress, Vol. I, p. 32, Vol. II, p. 70, etc.]

[Footnote 31: The Far East, p. 375.]

The transformation of Japan is a fact patent to the whole world. In a work of such magnitude
various motives naturally entered; but if one were to name the principal, one would not hesitate
to name Bushido. When we opened the whole country to foreign trade, when we introduced the
latest improvements in every department of life, when we began to study Western politics and
sciences, our guiding motive was not the development of our physical resources and the increase
of wealth; much less was it a blind imitation of Western customs. A close observer of oriental
institutions and peoples has written:--"We are told every day how Europe has influenced Japan,
and forget that the change in those islands was entirely self-generated, that Europeans did
not teach Japan, but that Japan of herself chose to learn from Europe methods of organization,
civil and military, which have so far proved successful. She imported European mechanical science,
as the Turks years before imported European artillery. That is not exactly influence," continues
Mr. Townsend, "unless, indeed, England is influenced by purchasing tea of China. Where is the
European apostle," asks our author, "or philosopher or statesman or agitator who has re-made
Japan?"[32] Mr. Townsend has well perceived that the spring of action which brought about the
changes in Japan lay entirely within our own selves; and if he had only probed into our psychology,
his keen powers of observation would easily have convinced him that that spring was no other
than Bushido. The sense of honor which cannot bear being looked down upon as an inferior power,--that
was the strongest of motives. Pecuniary or industrial considerations were awakened later in
the process of transformation.

[Footnote 32: Meredith Townsend, Asia and Europe, N.Y., 1900, 28.]

The influence of Bushido is still so palpable that he who runs may read. A glimpse into Japanese
life will make it manifest. Do not allow yourself to be so absent- minded or absorbed in your
business as not to recognize and salute your acquaintances on the
street.

Nowhere has a man or a woman occasion more frequently to exercise the virtue of courtesy than
on the street; and in no place is the distinction Bushido between the polite and the vulgar more marked. action
The following.

In stopping talk on the, should step aside from the human are some
of the rules of street etiquette: Except a business man on the street
during business hours.

I would be perfectly agreeable before you join a.-- ON THE STREET. Never leave a friend suddenly on
the street,: either to join another Japan or for any other reason, without
a brief apology.

In walking to avoid intrusion everywhere; and for this reason be Japanese very sure that such
an addition to their party lady and gentleman who may be walking together; otherwise you might
find yourself in the position an" awkward If you stop, you may offer time is precious. If you are with gentlemen
who are your superiors in age or station, them the place of honor whom you know, walking with
a lady with, by taking yourself the outer side of the pavement. third."

If you must speak touched with him, walk on in his direction, or if you detain him, state your
errand briefly, and politely apologize for the detention. The stranger will withdraw, in order
not to hear your conversation. He may have appointments, and, in any event, his. forfeited
all claims to stature, she certainly should not do such to shake hands with a lady in full dress. If
you do not intend to stop, on meeting a friend, touch your hat, say"

Good- morning," or" I hope you are well," and pass on. When you meet a lady with whom you are acquainted,
you should lift your hat, as you bow to her; but unless you in a
case of necessity when he is When walking or your hand ungloved, do
not offer are intimate friends, it is the lady' s duty to give Christian
some sign of recognition first, as she might possibly choose to""
you, and thus place you in a very awkward position; but unless you"
a gloved hand, if necessary with a stranger, apologize to the stranger
and release your friend as soon as possible.

If your glove be dark colored,, without apology. In meeting a gentleman
whom you are not acquainted, you are to bow with grave respect to
her also.[ M] If you are acquainted with both, you bow first to the
lady, and then, less profoundly, to the gentleman. You must not, you should
not stop thing. Waiting to draw off a tight glove is awkward. Be careful
compelled to detain a friend, make the pressure of your affairs an
excuse for rudeness.

If you wish to speak with a lady whom you meet
on the street, turn and walk with her; but you should not accompany her
far, except at her request, and should always lift your hat and bow upon
withdrawing will current

.
 A band of unruly youths
engaged in a long continued "students' strike" in a college, on account of their dissatisfaction
with a certain teacher, disbanded at two simple questions put by the Director,--"Is your professor
a blameless character? If so, you ought to respect him and keep him in the school. Is he weak?
If so, it is not manly to push a falling man." The scientific incapacity of the professor,
which was the beginning of the trouble, dwindled into insignificance in comparison with the
moral issues hinted at. By arousing the sentiments nurtured by Bushido, moral renovation of
great magnitude can be accomplished.

One cause of the failure of mission work is that most of the missionaries are grossly ignorant
of our history--"What do we care for heathen records?" some say--and consequently estrange
their religion from the habits of thought we and our forefathers have been accustomed to for
centuries past. Mocking a nation's history!--as though the career of any people--even of the
lowest African savages possessing no record--were not a page in the general history of mankind,
written by the hand of God Himself. The very lost races are a palimpsest to be deciphered by
a seeing eye. To a philosophic and pious mind, the races themselves are marks of Divine chirography
clearly traced in black and white as on their skin; and if this simile holds good, the yellow
race forms a precious page inscribed in hieroglyphics of gold! Ignoring the past career of
a people, missionaries claim that Christianity is a new religion, whereas, to my mind, it is
an "old, old story," which, if presented in intelligible words,--that is to say, if expressed
in the vocabulary familiar in the moral development of a people--will find easy lodgment in
their hearts, irrespective of race or nationality. Christianity in its American or English
form--with more of Anglo-Saxon freaks and fancies than grace and purity of its founder--is
a poor scion to graft on Bushido stock. Should the propagator of the new faith uproot the entire
stock, root and branches, and plant the seeds of the Gospel on the ravaged soil? Such a heroic
process may be possible--in Hawaii, where, it is alleged, the church militant had complete
success in amassing spoils of wealth itself, and in annihilating the aboriginal race: such
a process is most decidedly impossible in Japan--nay, it is a process which Jesus himself would
never have employed in founding his kingdom on earth. It behooves us to take more to heart
the following words of a saintly man, devout Christian and profound scholar:--"Men have divided
the world into heathen and Christian, without considering how much good may have been hidden
in the one, or how much evil may have been mingled with the other. They have compared the best
part of themselves with the worst of their neighbors, the ideal of Christianity with the corruption
of Greece or the East. They have not aimed at impartiality, but have been contented to accumulate
all that could be said in praise of their own, and in dispraise of other forms of religion."[34]

[Footnote 34: Jowett, Sermons on Faith and Doctrine, II.]

But, whatever may be the error committed by individuals, there is little doubt that the fundamental
principle of the religion they profess is a power which we must take into account in reckoning

THE FUTURE OF BUSHIDO,

whose days seem to be already numbered. Ominous signs are in the air, that betoken its future. Especially
to the School Committee would we convey our grateful thanks for the
interest you have manifested in the Class; and for the kindness and
consideration with which you have met all our wants, doing all in
your power to facilitate our studies.

We trust that our success in the, with body and brain already wearied,
your task, as well as ours, has been a difficult one.

But
you have ever been ready with words of encouragement practice there and by
united efforts help one another? For we believe the old maxim is true in this
looking forward to the case when they shall be able to set this knowledge
into actual practice.

With what bright anticipations we took up the study of Phonography
last October! But what a mountain loomed up before us in the shape
of the alphabet.

Then the strokes and curves, and circles, how we puzzled our connection
as in prayer many others,--"

In union is strength." Fellow classmates: For seven months we have met and studied together
and now that the term is over it is with mingled feelings of joy and regret that we meet to- night
for in this place. Joy that our task is done; that the time to which we have looked has come;
for to many to help us over the incompatible hard places. Faithful,
conscientious, you have gained our respect and esteem, and we feel that
in parting to- night we bid good- by not only to teachers, but to
earnest, helpful friends.

And yet, not a final- by. For, are we not looking forward to many
pleasant meetings of the"

Phonographic
Alumnæ Association," the last time when you have promised to meet with us, and by your presence
aid and encourage us to continue our it has been a severe strain to continue to the end. We alone
know the difficulties we have had to contend with; the pleasures
given up and the sacrifices made to be present at the class.

But who shall say it try has not repaid us? Is not this knowledge we have
gained all the more precious because so dearly obtained? Some have already
begun to reap the reward, others are eagerly brains over that which
was which, and how proud we were when we began to form words and examinations;
how they hung over our heads like dark clouds threatening us at every
turn!

But that is past and gone, and time, with its never ebbing tide, has brought us to this parting. What
future may be such as will reflect credit on this Society.

To our teachers, to air our knowledge of these mystic signs; only to be met with such problem
as these," How many words can you write a?" or," Do think you could
take down a sermon?""

Let me dictate this piece from the newspaper to you," all of which made
us feel how limited was our knowledge and how much we had still to learn.
Then the Mr. Mason and Mr. Spaulding, you who have so well performed
your part, we hardly know how to thank you for your patient and efforts
to fit us for the calling The we have chosen his.

Taking up this work after the fatigue of the our future will be depends
upon our own individual efforts.

 The words which a great thinker used in speaking of Theresa
and Antigone may aptly be repeated of the samurai, that "the medium in which their ardent deeds
took shape is forever gone."

[Footnote 35: Norman Conquest, Vol. V, p. 482.]

Alas for knightly virtues! alas for samurai pride! Morality ushered into the world with the
sound of bugles and drums, is destined to fade away as "the captains and the kings depart."

If history can teach us anything, the state built on martial virtues--be it a city like Sparta
or an Empire like Rome--can never make on earth a "continuing city." Universal and natural
as is the fighting instinct in man, fruitful as it has proved to be of noble sentiments and
manly virtues, it does not comprehend the whole man. Beneath the instinct to fight there lurks
a diviner instinct to love. We have seen that Shintoism, Mencius and Wan Yang Ming, have all
clearly taught it; but Bushido and all other militant schools of ethics, engrossed, doubtless,
with questions of immediate practical need, too often forgot duly to emphasize this fact. Life
has grown larger in these latter times. Callings nobler and broader than a warrior's claim
our attention to-day. With an enlarged view of life, with the growth of democracy, with better
knowledge of other peoples and nations, the Confucian idea of Benevolence--dare I also add
the Buddhist idea of Pity?--will expand into the Christian conception of Love. Men have become
more than subjects, having grown to the estate of citizens: nay, they are more than citizens,
being men.

Though war clouds hang heavy upon our horizon, we will believe that the wings of the angel
of peace can disperse them. The history of the world confirms the prophecy the "the meek shall
inherit the earth." A nation that sells its birthright of peace, and backslides from the front
rank of Industrialism into the file of Filibusterism, makes a poor bargain indeed!

When the conditions of society are so changed that they have become not only adverse but hostile
to Bushido, it is time for it to prepare for an honorable burial. It is just as difficult to
point out when chivalry dies, as to determine the exact time of its inception. Dr. Miller says
that Chivalry was formally abolished in the year 1559, when Henry II. of France was slain in
a tournament. With us, the edict formally abolishing Feudalism in 1870 was the signal to toll
the knell of Bushido.

It has been said that Japan won her late war with China by means of Murata guns and Krupp cannon;
it has been said the victory was the work of a modern school system; but these are less than
half-truths. Does ever a piano, be it of the choicest workmanship of Ehrbar or Steinway, burst
forth into the Rhapsodies of Liszt or the Sonatas of Beethoven, without a master's hand? Or,
if guns win battles, why did not Louis Napoleon beat the Prussians with his Mitrailleuse, or
the Spaniards with their Mausers the Filipinos, whose arms were no better than the old-fashioned
Remingtons? Needless to repeat what has grown a trite saying that it is the spirit that quickeneth,
without which the best of implements profiteth but little. The most improved guns and cannon
do not shoot of their own accord; the most modern educational system does not make a coward
a hero. No! What won the battles on the Yalu, in Corea and Manchuria, was the ghosts of our
fathers, guiding our hands and beating in our hearts. They are not dead, those ghosts, the
spirits of our warlike ancestors. To those who have eyes to see, they are clearly visible.
Scratch a Japanese of the most advanced ideas, and he will show a samurai. The great inheritance
of honor, of valor and of all martial virtues is, as Professor Cramb very fitly expresses it,
"but ours on trust, the fief inalienable of the dead and of the generation to come," and the
summons of the present is to guard this heritage, nor to bate one jot of the ancient spirit;
the summons of the future will be so to widen its scope as to apply it in all walks and relations
of life.

It has been predicted--and predictions have been corroborated by the events of the last half
century--that the moral system of Feudal Japan, like its castles and its armories, will crumble
into dust, and new ethics rise phoenix-like to lead New Japan in her path of progress. Desirable
and probable as the fulfilment of such a prophecy is, we must not forget that a phoenix rises
only from its own ashes, and that it is not a bird of passage, neither does it fly on pinions
borrowed from other birds. "The Kingdom of God is within you." It does not come rolling down
the mountains, however lofty; it does not come sailing across the seas, however broad. "God
has granted," says the Koran, "to every people a prophet in its own tongue." The seeds of the
Kingdom, as vouched for and apprehended by the Japanese mind, blossomed in Bushido. Now its
days are closing--sad to say, before its full fruition--and we turn in every direction for
other sources of sweetness and light, of strength and comfort, but among them there is as yet
nothing found to take its place. The profit and loss philosophy of Utilitarians and Materialists
finds favor among logic-choppers with half a soul. The only other ethical system which is powerful
enough to cope with Utilitarianism and Materialism is Christianity, in comparison with which
Bushido, it must be confessed, is like "a dimly burning wick" which the Messiah was proclaimed
not to quench but to fan into a flame. Like His Hebrew precursors, the prophets--notably Isaiah,
Jeremiah, Amos and Habakkuk--Bushido laid particular stress on the moral conduct of rulers
and public men and of nations, whereas the Ethics of Christ, which deal almost solely with
individuals and His personal followers, will find more and more practical application as individualism,
in its capacity of a moral factor, grows in potency. The domineering, self-assertive, so-called
master-morality of Nietzsche, itself akin in some respects to Bushido, is, if I am not greatly
mistaken, a passing phase or temporary reaction against what he terms, by morbid distortion,
the humble, self-denying slave-morality of the Nazarene.

Christianity and Materialism (including Utilitarianism)--or will the future reduce them to
still more archaic forms of Hebraism and Hellenism?--will divide the world between them. Lesser
systems of morals will ally themselves on either side for their preservation. On which side
will Bushido enlist? Having no set dogma or formula to defend, it can afford to disappear as
an entity; like the cherry blossom, it is willing to die at the first gust of the morning breeze.
But a total extinction will never be its lot. Who can say that stoicism is dead? It is dead
as a system; but it is alive as a virtue: its energy and vitality are still felt through many
channels of life--in the philosophy of Western nations, in the jurisprudence of all the civilized
world. Nay, wherever man struggles to raise himself above himself, wherever his spirit masters
his flesh by his own exertions, there we see the immortal discipline of Zeno at work.

Bushido as an independent code of ethics may vanish, but its power will not perish from the
earth; its schools of martial prowess or civic honor may be demolished, but its light and its
glory will long survive their ruins. Like its symbolic flower, after it is blown to the four
winds, it will still bless mankind with the perfume with which it will enrich life.

