THE GAMING TABLE: ITS VOTARIES AND VICTIMS,

In all Times and Countries, especially in England and in France.

IN TWO VOLUMES.--VOL. II.

By Andrew Steinmetz

Of The Middle Temple, Barrister-At-Law; First-Class Extra Certificate School Of Musketry, Hythe;
Late Officer Instructor Musketry, The Queens Own Light Infantry Militia. Author Of 'The History
Of The Jesuits,' 'Japan And Her People,' 'The Romance Of Duelling,' &C., &C.

     'The sharp, the blackleg, and the knowing one,
     Livery or lace, the self-same circle, run;
     The same the passion, end and means the same--
     Dick and his Lordship differ but in name.'

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

I. CHEVALIERS D'INDUSTRIE, OR POLITE SHARPERS II. PROFESSIONAL GAMESTERS
AND THEIR FRAUDS III. ANECDOTES OF THE PASSIONS AND VICISSITUDES OF
GAMESTERS IV. ACTROCITIES, DUELS. SUICIDES, AND EXECUTION OF GAMBLERS V.
ODDITIES AND WITTICISMS OF GAMBLERS VI. THE GAMING CLUBS VII. DOINGS IN
GAMING HOUSES VIII. THE DOCTRINE OF PROBABILITIES APPLIED TO GAMBLING
IX. THE HISTORY OF DICE AND CARDS X. PIQUET, BASSET, FARO, HAZARD,
PASSE-DIX, PUT,      CROSS AND PILE, THIMBLE-RIG
 XI. COCK-FIGHTING XII. THE TURF, HISTORICAL, SOCIAL, MORAL XIII.
FORTUNE-TELLING BY CARDS (FOR LADIES) XIV. AMUSING CARD TRICKS

THE GAMING TABLE.

CHAPTER I. CHEVALIERS D'INDUSTRIE, OR POLITE SHARPERS.

Chevaliers d'industrie, or polite and accomplished sharpers, have always existed in every city,
from the earliest times to the present. The ordinary progress of these interesting gentlemen
is as follows. Their debut is often difficult, and many of them are stopped short in their
career. They only succeed by means of great exertion and severe trials; but they endure everything
in order to be tolerated or permitted to exercise their calling. To secure credit they ally
themselves with men of respectability, or those who pass for such. When they have no titles
they fabricate them; and few persons dispute their claims. They are found useful for the pleasures
of society, the expenses of which they often pay--at the cost of the dupes they make in the
world. The income of chevaliers d'industrie is at first derived from those inexperienced persons
whom they get in their clutches by means of every kind of enticement, in order to ruin them
some day--if they have any 'expectations' or are likely to be rich; or in order to make accomplices
of them if they have only aptitudes for the purpose. After having led them from error to error,
after suggesting to them all sorts of wants and vices, they make them gamble, if they are of
age; they hold up play to them as an inexhaustible source of wealth.

The 'protector' next hands over his 'young friends' to 'executioners,' who fleece them for
the common benefit of the confederates. They do not always wait for the coming of age of their
young dupes in order to strike the grand 'stroke.' When they find that the father of a family
shudders at the idea of a public scandal, they immolate their victim at once--for fear lest
he should escape from their hands. Of course they are always open to 'capitulate'--to come
to terms; and if the aid of the law is invoked they give in discreetly.

About a century ago there flourished at Paris one of these adventurers, who made a great noise
and did a vast amount of evil. This man of a thousand faces, this Proteus, as great a corrupter
as he was corrupted, changed his name, his quarters, and field of operations, according to
the exigences of business. Although a man of ardent temperament and inconceivable activity,
his cold-blooded rascality was never in a hurry. He could wait; he could bide his time. Taking
in, at a glance, all the requirements of a case, and seeing through all its difficulties, he
worked out his scheme with the utmost patience and consummated his crime with absolute security.

Sometimes he gave a concert for amateurs, elegant suppers for gay ladies, and special soirees
for the learned and the witty. He was not particular as to the means of doing business; thus
he trafficked in everything,--for the sale of a living, or the procuration of a mistress--for
he had associates in all ranks, among all professions of men.

He had twenty Faro tables in operation every night, whilst his emissaries were on the watch
for new arrivals, and for those who had recently come into property.

In general, rogues soon betray themselves by some stupid bungle; but such was not the case
with this man; he defended himself, as it were, on all sides, and always kept himself in position
so as to oppose to each of his vices the proof positive of the contrary virtues. Thus, if accused
of usury, he could prove that he had lent, without interest, considerable sums of money. Cowardly
and base in a tete-a-tete, he was bold and redoubtable in public; those who had made him tremble
in secret were then compelled to acknowledge him a man of courage. Even his more than suspected
probity was defended by such as believed themselves his depositaries, whereas they were, in
point of fact, only receivers of stolen property.

Affable, insinuating to a degree, he might be compared to those brigands of Egypt who embraced
their victims in order to strangle them.(1) He never showed more devotedness than when he meditated
some perfidy, nor more assurance than when convicted of the rascality. Playing fast and loose
with honour and the laws, he was sure to find, when threatened by the arm of justice, the female
relatives of the judges themselves taking his part and doing their best to 'get him off.' Such
was this extraordinary chevalier d'industrie, who might have gone on with his diabolical perpetrations
had he not, at last, attempted too much, failing in the grandest stroke he had ever meditated--and
yet a vulgar fraud--when he was convicted, branded, and sent to the galleys.(2)

(1) Senec., Epist. Ii. (2) Dusaulx, De la Passion du Jeu.

The following narrative elucidates a still more modern phase of this elegant 'industry.' My
authority is M. Robert-Houdin.

CAUGHT IN A TRAP.

M. Olivier de ---- was a dissipated young gentleman. His family was one of the oldest and most
respectable of the country, and deservedly enjoyed the highest consideration. M. Olivier de
----, his father, was not rich, and therefore could not do much for his son; the consequence
was that owing to his outrageous prodigality the son was sorely pinched for means to keep up
his position; he exhausted his credit, and was soon overwhelmed with debt. Among the companions
of his dissipation was a young man whose abundant means filled him with admiration and envy;
he lived like a prince and had not a single creditor. One day he asked his friend to explain
the mystery of the fact that, without possessing any fortune, he could gratify all his tastes
and fancies, whilst he himself, with certain resources, was compelled to submit to privations,
still getting into debt.

Chauvignac--such was the name of the friend thus addressed--was a card-sharper, and he instantly
seized the opportunity to make something out of the happy disposition of this modern prodigal
son, this scion of gentility. With the utmost frankness he explained to the young man his wonderful
method of keeping his pockets full of money, and showed that nothing could be easier than for
Olivier to go and do likewise in his terrible condition;--in short, on one hand there were
within his grasp, riches, pleasure, all manner of enjoyment; on the other, pitiless creditors,
ruin, misery, and contempt. The tempter, moreover, offered to initiate his listener in his
infallible method of getting rich. In his frame of mind Olivier yielded to the temptation,
with the full determination, if not to get money by cheating at cards, at any rate to learn
the method which might serve as a means of self-defence should he not think proper to use it
for attack--such was the final argument suggested by the human Mephistopheles to his pupil.

Taking Olivier to his house, he showed him a pack of cards. 'Now here is a pack of cards,'
he said; 'there seems to be nothing remarkable about it, does there?' Olivier examined the
pack and declared that the cards did not appear to differ in the least from all others. 'Well,'
said Chauvignac, 'nevertheless they have been subjected to a preparation called biseautage,
or having one end of the cards made narrower than the other. This disposition enables us to
remove from the pack such and such cards and then to class them in the necessary order so that
they may get into the hand of the operator.' Chauvignac then proceeded to apply his precepts
by an example, and although the young man had no particular qualification for the art of legerdemain,
he succeeded at once to admiration in a game at Ecarte, for he had already mastered the first
process of cheating. Having thus, as he thought, sufficiently compromised his victim, Chauvignac
left him to his temptations, and took leave of him.

Two days afterwards the professor returned to his pupil and invited him to accompany him on
a pleasure trip. Olivier excused himself on account of his desperate condition--one of his
creditors being in pursuit of him for a debt of one thousand francs. 'Is that all?' said Chauvignac;
and pulling out his pocket-book he added,--'Here's a bank-note; you can repay me to-morrow.'
'Why, man, you are mad!' exclaimed Olivier. 'Be it so,' said Chauvignac; 'and in my madness
I give you credit for another thousand-franc bank-note to go and get thirty thousand francs
which are waiting for you.' 'Now, do explain yourself, for you are driving ME mad.' 'Nothing
more easy. Here is the fact,' said Chauvignac. 'M. le Comte de Vandermool, a wealthy Belgian
capitalist, a desperate gamester if ever there was one, and who can lose a hundred thousand
francs without much inconvenience, is now at Boulogne, where he will remain a week. This millionnaire
must be thinned a little. Nothing is easier. One of my friends and confreres, named Chaffard,
is already with the count to prepare the way. We have only now to set to work. You are one
of us--that's agreed--and in a few days you will return, to satisfy your creditors and buy
your mistress a shawl.'

'Stop a bit. You are going too fast. Wait a little. I haven't as yet said Yes,' replied Olivier.
'I don't want your Yes now; you will say it at Boulogne. For the present go and pay your bill.
We set out in two hours; the post-horses are already ordered; we shall start from my house:
be punctual.'

The party reached Boulogne and put up at the Hotel de l'Univers. On their arrival they were
informed that no time was to be lost, as the count talked of leaving next day. The two travellers
took a hasty dinner, and at once proceeded to the apartment of the Belgian millionnaire. Chaffard,
who had preceded them, introduced them as two of his friends, whose property was situated in
the vicinity of Boulogne.

M. le Comte de Vandermool was a man about fifty years of age, with an open, candid countenance.
He wore several foreign decorations. He received the two gentlemen with charming affability;
he did more; he invited them to spend the evening with him. Of course the invitation was accepted.
When the conversation began to flag, the count proposed a game--which was also, of course,
very readily agreed to by the three comperes.

While the table was prepared, Chauvignac gave his young friend two packs of cards, to be substituted
for those which should be furnished by the count. Ecarte was to be the game, and Olivier was
to play, the two other associates having pretended to know nothing about the game, and saying
that they would content themselves by betting with each other. Of course Olivier was rather
surprised at this declaration, but he soon understood by certain signs from Chauvignac that
this reservation was intended to do away with the count's suspicions, in case of their success.

The count, enormously rich as he was, would only play for bank-notes. 'Metal smells bad in
a room,' he said. The novice, at first confused at being a party to the intended roguery, followed
the dictates of his conscience and, neglecting the advantages of his hands, trusted merely
to chance. The result was that the only thousand-franc bank-note he had was speedily transferred
to the count. At that moment Chauvignac gave him a significant look, and this, together with
the desire to retrieve his loss, induced him to put into execution the culpable manoeuvres
which his friend had taught him. His work was of the easiest; the count was so short-sighted
that he had to keep his nose almost upon the cards to see them. Chance now turned, as might
be expected, and thousand-franc bank-notes soon accumulated in the hands of Olivier, who, intoxicated
by this possession, worked away with incredible ardour. Moreover, the count was not in the
least out of humour at losing so immensely; on the contrary, he was quite jovial; indeed, from
his looks he might have been supposed to be the winner. At length, however, he said with a
smile, taking a pinch from his golden snuff-box--'I am evidently not in vein. I have lost eighty
thousand francs. I see that I shall soon be in for one hundred thousand. But it is proper,
my dear sir, that I should say I don't make a habit of losing more than this sum at a sitting;
and if it must be so, I propose to sup before losing my last twenty thousand francs. Perhaps
this will change my vein. I think you will grant me this indulgence.' The proposal was agreed to.

Olivier, almost out of his senses at the possession of eighty thousand francs, could not resist
the desire of expressing his gratitude to Chauvignac, which he did, grasping his hand with
emotion and leading him into a corner of the room.

Alas! the whole thing was only an infamous conspiracy to ruin the young man. The Belgian capitalist,
this count apparently so respectable, was only an expert card-sharper whom Chauvignac had brought
from Paris to play out the vile tragi-comedy, the denouement of which would be the ruin of
the unfortunate Olivier.

At the moment when the latter left the card-table to go to Chauvignac, the pretended millionnaire
changed the pack of cards they had been using for two other packs.

Supper went off very pleasantly. They drank very moderately, for the head had to be kept cool
for what had to follow. They soon sat down again at the card-table. 'Now,' said the Parisian
card-shaper, on resuming his seat, 'I should like to end the matter quickly: I will stake the
twenty thousand francs in a lump.'

Olivier, confident of success after his previous achievement, readily assented; but, alas,
the twenty thousand francs of which he made sure was won by his adversary.

Forty thousand francs went in like manner. Olivier, breathless, utterly prostrate, knew not
what to do. All his manoeuvres were practised in vain; he could give himself none but small
cards. His opponent had his hands full of trumps, and HE dealt them to him! In his despair
he consulted Chauvignac by a look, and the latter made a sign to him to go on. The wretched
young man went on, and lost again. Bewildered, beside himself, he staked fabulous sums to try
and make up for his losses, and very soon found, in his turn, that he owed his adversary one
hundred thousand francs(L4166)!

At this point the horrible denouement commenced. The pretended count stopped, and crossing
his arms on his breast, said sternly--'Monsieur Olivier de ----, you must be very rich to stake
so glibly such enormous sums. Of course you know your fortune and can square yourself with
it; but, however rich you may be, you ought to know that it is not sufficient to lose a hundred
thousand francs, but that you must pay it. Besides, I have given you the example. Begin, therefore,
by putting down the sum I have won from you; after which we can go on.' . . .

'Nothing can be more proper, sir,' stammered out young Olivier, 'I am ready to satisfy you;
but, after all, you know that . . . .

gaming debts . . . . my word . . . .'

'The d--l! sir,' said the pretended count, giving the table a violent blow with his fist--'Why
do you talk to me about your WORD. Gad! You are well entitled to appeal to the engagements
of honour! Well! We have now to play another game on this table, and we must speak out plainly.
Monsieur Olivier de ----, you are a rogue . . . Yes, a rogue! The cards we have been using
are biseautees and YOU brought them hither.'

'Sir! . . You insult me!' said Olivier.

'Indeed? Well, sir, that astonishes me!' replied the false Belgian ironically.

'That is too much, sir. I demand satisfaction, and that on the very instant. Do you understand
me? Let us go out at once.'

'No! no! We must end this quarrel here, sir. Look here--your two friends shall be your "seconds;"
I am now going to send for MINE.'

The card-sharper, who had risen at these words, rang the bell violently. His own servant entered.
'Go,' said he, 'to the Procureur de Roi, and request him to come here on a very important matter.
Be as quick as you can.'

'Oh, sir, be merciful! Don't ruin me!' exclaimed the wretched Olivier; 'I will do what you
like.' At these words, the sharper told his servant to wait behind the door, and to execute
his order if he should hear nothing to the contrary in ten minutes.

'And now, sir,' continued the sharper, turning to Olivier, 'and now, sir, for the business
between you and me. These cards have been substituted by you in the place of those which I
supplied . . . You must do them up, write your name upon the cover, and seal it with the coat
of arms on your ring.'

Olivier looked first at Chauvignac and then at Chaffard, but both the fellows only made signs
to him to resign himself to the circumstances. He did what was ordered.

'That is not all, sir,' added the false Belgian; 'I have fairly won money from you and have
a right to demand a guarantee for payment. You must draw me short bills for the sum of one
hundred thousand francs.'

As the wretched young man hesitated to comply with this demand, his pitiless creditor rose
to ring the bell.

'Don't ring, sir, don't ring,' said Olivier, 'I'll sign.'

He signed, and the villany was consummated. Olivier returned to his family and made an humble
avowal of his fault and his engagements. His venerable father received the terrible blow with
resignation, and paid the 100,000 francs, estimating his honour far above that amount of money.(3)

(3) This narrative is condensed from the account of the affair by Robert-Hondin, Tricherics
des Grecs devoilees.

AN ATTORNEY 'DONE' BY A GAMBLER.

A turfite and gambler, represented under the letters of Mr H--e, having lost all his money
at Doncaster and the following York Meeting, devised a plan, with his coadjutor, to obtain
the means for their departure from York, which, no doubt, will be considered exceedingly ingenious.

He had heard of an attorney in the town who was very fond of Backgammon; and on this simple
piece of information an elaborate plan was concocted. Mr H--e feigned illness, went to bed,
and sent for a large quantity of tartar emetic, which he took. After he had suffered the operation
of the first dose he sent for a doctor, who pronounced him, of course, very languid and ill;
and not knowing the cause, ordered him more medicine, which the patient took good care not
to allow to stay on his stomach.

On the second day he asked the doctor, with great gravity, if he considered him in danger,
adding, 'because he had never made a WILL to bequeath his property.' The doctor replied, 'No,
not in absolute danger, but there was no harm in making a WILL.'

The attorney, accordingly, was sent for--of course the very man wished for--the lover of Backgammon
before mentioned. The good man came; he took the 'instructions,' and drew up the last will
and testament of the ruined turfite, who left (in the will) about L50,000, which no man ever
heard of, living or dead.

The BUSINESS being done, the patient said that if he had a moment's relaxation he thought he
should rally and overcome the malady. The poor lawyer said if he could in any way contribute
to his comfort he should be happy. The offer was embraced by observing that if he could sit
up in bed--but he was afraid he was not able--a hit at Backgammon would be a great source of
amusement.

The lawyer, like all adepts in such matters, was only too willing to catch at the idea; the
board was brought.

Of course the man who had L50,000 to leave behind could not be expected to play 'for love;'
and so when Mr H--e proposed 'a pound a hit or treble a gammon,' the lawyer not only thought
it reasonable, but, conscious of his power in the game, eagerly accepted the terms of playing.
They played; but the lawyer was gammoned almost incessantly, till he lost L50. Then H--e proposed
'double or quits to L1000,'--thereupon the poor lawyer, believing that fortune could not always
forsake him, said he had but L2000 in the world, but that he would set the L1000. He lost;
and became almost frantic. In the midst of his excessive grief, H--e said, 'You have a HORSE,
what is it worth?' L50 was the answer. 'Well, well, you may win all back now, and I'll set
L50 on your horse.'

They began again. Lost! 'You have a COW in your paddock, haven't you? What's that worth?' asked
Mr H--e. The attorney said L12. 'Well, I'll set that sum by way of giving you a chance.' The
game proceeded, and the poor lawyer, equally unfortunate, raved and swore he had lost his last
shilling. 'No, no!' said H--e,' you have not: I saw a HAY-RICK in your ground. It is of no
use now that the horse and cow are gone--what is that worth?' L15, replied the attorney, with
a sigh. 'I set L15 then,' said H--e.

This seemed to be 'rather too much' for the lawyer. The loss of the hay-rick--like the last
straw laid on the overladen camel's back--staggered him. Besides, he thought he saw--as doubtless
he did see--H--e twisting his fingers round one of the dice. Up he started at once, and declared
that he was cheated!

Thereupon the sick man forgot his sickness, jumped out of bed, and gave the lawyer a regular
drubbing, got the cheque for the L2000,--but the horse, cow, and hay he said he would leave
'until further orders.'

A VERY CURIOUS STORY.

An Archbishop of Canterbury was once on a tour, when a genteel man, apparently in earnest conversation,
though alone in a wood, attracted his notice. His Grace made up to him, and, after a little
previous conversation, asked him what he was about.

  Stranger.  'I am at play.'
  Archbishop.  'At play?  With whom?  I see nobody.'
  Sir.  'I own, sir, my antagonist is not visible: I am playing
  with God.'
  Abp.  'At what game, pray, sir?'
  Str.  'At Chess.'
  Abp.  'Do you play for anything?'
  Str.  'Certainly.'
  Abp.  'You cannot have any chance, as your adversary must be so
  superior to you.'
  Str.  'He takes no advantage, but plays merely as a man.'
  Abp.  'When you win or lose, how do you settle accounts?'
  Str.  'Very exactly and punctually.'
  Abp.  'Indeed!  Pray, how stands your game now?'
  Str.  'There!  I have just lost!'
  Abp.  'How much have you lost?'
  Str.  'Fifty guineas.'
  Abp.  'How do you manage to pay it?  Does God take your money?'
  Str.  'No!  The poor are his treasurers.  He always sends some
  worthy person to receive it, and you are at present his
  purse-bearer.'

Saying this, the stranger put fifty guineas into his Grace's hand, and retired, adding--'I
shall play no more to-day.'

The prelate was delighted; though he could not tell what to make of this extraordinary man.
The guineas were all good; and the archbishop applied them to the use of the poor, as he had
been directed.

The archbishop, on his return, stopped at the same town, and could not help going in search
of the chess-player, whom he found engaged as before, when the following dialogue ensued:--

    Abp.  'How has the chance stood since we met before?'
    Str.  'Sometimes for me--sometimes against me.  I have lost and
    won.'
    Abp.  'Are you at play now?'
    Str.  'Yes, sir.  We have played several games to-day.'
    Abp.  'Who wins?'
    Str.  'The advantage is on my side.  The game is just over.  I
    have a fine stroke--check-mate--there it is.'
    Abp.  'How much have you won?'
    Str.  'Five hundred guineas.'
    Abp.  'That is a large sum.  How are you to be paid?'
    Str.  'God always sends some good rich man when I win, and YOU
    are the person.  He is remarkably punctual on these occasions.'

The archbishop had received a considerable sum on that day, as the stranger knew; and so, producing
a pistol by way of receipt, he compelled the delivery of it. His Grace now discovered that
he had been the dupe of a thief; and though he had greatly bruited his first adventure, he
prudently kept his own counsel in regard to the last.

Such is the tale. Se non e vero e ben trovato.

SKITTLE SHARPERS.

'I know a respectable tradesman,' says a writer in Cassell's Magazine--'I know him now, for
he lives in the house he occupied at the time of my tale--who was sent for to see a French
gentleman at a tavern, on business connected with the removal of this gentleman's property
from one of the London docks. The business, as explained by the messenger, promising to be
profitable, he of course promptly obeyed the summons, and during his walk found that his conductor
had once been in service in France. This delighted Mr Chase--the name by which I signify the
tradesman--for he, too, had once so lived in France; and by the time he reached the tavern
he had talked himself into a very good opinion of his new patron. The French gentleman was
very urbane, gave Mr Chase his instructions, let him understand expense was not to be studied,
and, as he was at lunch, would not be satisfied unless the tradesman sat down with him. This
was a great honour for the latter, as he found his employer was a baron. Well, the foreigner
was disposed to praise everything English; he was glad he had come to live in London--Paris
was nothing to it; they had nothing in France like the English beer, with which, in the exuberance
of his hospitality, he filled and refilled Mr Chase's glass; but that which delighted him above
all that he had seen "vos de leetle game vid de ball--vot you call--de--de--aha! de skittel."
Mr Chase assented that it was a very nice game certainly; and the French gentleman seeming
by this time to have had quite enough beer, insisted, before they went to the docks--which
was essential--that they should see just one game played.

'As he insisted on paying Mr Chase for all the time consumed with him, and as his servant,
of course, could not object, the party adjourned to the "Select Subscription Ground" at once.
In the ground there was a quiet, insignificant-looking little man, smoking a cigar; and as
they were so few, he was asked to assist, which, after considerable hesitation and many apologies
for his bad play, he did. The end is of course guessed. The French gentleman was a foolish
victim, with more money than wits, who backed himself to do almost impossible feats, when it
was evident he could not play at all, and laid sovereigns against the best player, who was
the little stranger, doing the easiest. What with the excitement, and what with the beer, which
was probably spiced with some unknown relish a little stronger than nutmeg, Mr Chase could
not help joining in winning the foreign gentleman's money; it seemed no harm, he had so much of it.

'By a strange concurrence of events, it so happened that by random throws the Frenchman sometimes
knocked all the pins down at a single swoop, though he clearly could not play--Mr Chase was
sure of that--while the skilful player made every now and then one of the blunders to which
the best players are liable. That the tradesman lost forty sovereigns will be easily understood;
and did his tale end here it would have differed so little from a hundred others as scarcely
to deserve telling; but it will surprise many, as it did me, to learn that he then walked to
and from his own house--a distance of precisely a mile each way--fetched a bill for thirty
pounds, which a customer had recently paid him, got it discounted, went back to the skittle-ground,
and, under the same malignant star, lost the whole.

'It was the only case in my experience of the work going on smoothly after such a break. I
never could account for it, nor could Mr Chase. Great was the latter's disgust, on setting
the police to work, to find that the French nobleman, his servant, and the quiet stranger,
were all dwellers within half a mile or so of his own house, and slightly known to him--men
who had trusted, and very successfully, to great audacity and well-arranged disguise.'

A vast deal of gambling still goes on with skittles all over the country. At a place not ten
miles from London, I am told that as much as two thousand pounds has been seen upon the table
in a single 'alley,' or place of play. The bets were, accordingly, very high. The instances
revealed by exposure at the police-courts give but a faint idea of the extent of skittle sharping.

Amidst such abuses of the game, it can scarcely surprise us that the police have been recently
directed to prohibit all playing at skittles and bowls. However much we may regret the interference
with popular pastimes, in themselves unobjectionable, it is evident that their flagrant abuse
warrants the most stringent measures in order to prevent their constantly repeated and dismal
consequences. Even where money was not played for, pots of beer were the wager--leading, in
many instances, to intoxication, or promoting this habit, which is the cause of so much misery
among the lower orders.

CHAPTER II. PROFESSIONAL GAMESTERS AND THEIR FRAUDS.

A gambling house at the end of the last century was conducted by the following officials:--

1. A Commissioner,--who was always a proprietor; who looked in of a night, and audited the
week's account with two other proprietors.

2. A Director,--who superintended the room.

3. An Operator,--who dealt the cards at the cheating game called Faro.

4. Two Croupiers, or crow-pees, as they were vulgarly called, whose duty it was to watch the
cards and gather or rake in the money for the bank.

5. Two Puffs,--who had money given to them to decoy others to play.

6. A Clerk,--who was a check on the Puffs, to see that they sank none of the money given to
them to play with.

7. A Squib,--who was a puff of a lower rank, serving at half salary, whilst learning to deal.

8. A Flasher,--to swear how often the bank had been stripped by lucky players.

9. A Dunner,--who went about to recover money lost at play.

10. A Waiter,--to fill out wine, snuff candles, and attend the room.

11. An Attorney,--who was generally a Newgate solicitor.

12. A Captain,--who was to fight any gentleman who might be peevish at losing his money.

13. An Usher,--who lighted the gentlemen up and down stairs, and gave the word to the porter.

14. A Porter,--who was generally a soldier of the Foot Guards.

15. An Orderly-man,--who walked up and down the outside of the door, to give notice to the
porter, and alarm the house at the approach of the constables.

16. A Runner,--who was to get intelligence of the Justices' meetings.

17. Link Boys, Coachmen, Chairmen, Drawers, and others, who brought the first intelligence
of Justices' meetings, of constables going out, at half a guinea reward.

18. Common Bail, Affidavit Men, Ruffians, Bravos, Assassins, &c. &c.

It may be proper to remark that the above list of officials was only calculated for gambling
houses of an inferior order. In these it is evident that the fear of interruption and the necessity
for precaution presided over the arrangements. There were others, however, which seemed to
defy law, to spurn at justice, and to remain secure, in every way, by the 'respectability'
of their frequenters. These were houses supported at an amazing expense--within sight of the
palace--which were open every night and all night--where men of the first rank were to be found
gambling away immense sums of money, such as no man, whatever his fortune might be, could sustain.
'What, then,' says a writer at the time, 'are the consequences? Why, that the UNDONE part of
them sell their VOTES for bread, and the successful give them for honours.

'He who has never seen the gamblers' apartments in some of the magnificent houses in the neighbourhood
of St James's, has never seen the most horrid sight that the imagination of a thinking man
can conceive.

'A new pack of cards is called for at every deal, and the "old" ones are then thrown upon the
floor, and in such an immense quantity, that the writer of this letter has seen a very large
room nearly ANKLE-DEEP, in the greatest part of it, by four o'clock in the morning! Judge,
then, to what height they must have risen by daylight.'

It is a melancholy truth, but confirmed by the history of all nations, that the most polite
and refined age of a kingdom is never the most virtuous; not, indeed, that any such compliment
can be paid to that gross age, but still it was refined compared with the past. The distinctions
of personal merit being but little regarded--in the low moral tone that prevailed--there needed
but to support a certain 'figure' in life (managed by the fashionable tailor)(4), to be conversant
with a few etiquettes of good breeding and sentiments of modern or current honour, in order
to be received with affability and courteous attention in the highest circles. The vilest sharper,
having once gained admission, was sure of constant entertainment, for nothing formed a greater
cement of union than the spirit of HIGH GAMING. There being so little cognizance taken of the
good qualities of the heart in fashionable assemblies, no wonder that amid the medley of characters
to be found in these places the 'sharper' of polite address should gain too easy an admission.

(4)

 'How shalt THOU to Caesar's hall repair?
     For, ah! no DAMAGED coat can enter there!'

     BEATTIE'S Minstrel.

This fraternity of artists--whether they were to be denominated rooks,(5) sharps, sharpers,
black-legs, Greeks, or gripes--were exceedingly numerous, and were dispersed among all ranks
of society.

(5) So called because rooks are famous for stealing materials out of other birds' nests to
build their own.

The follies and vices of others--of open-hearted youth in particular--were the great game or
pursuit of this odious crew. Though cool and dispassionate themselves, they did all in their
power to throw others off their guard, that they might make their advantage of them.

In others they promoted excess of all kinds, whilst they themselves took care to maintain the
utmost sobriety and temperance. 'Gamesters,' says Falconer, 'whose minds must be always on
the watch to take advantages, and prepared to form calculations, and to employ the memory,
constantly avoid a full meal of animal food, which they find incapacitates them for play nearly
as much as a quantity of strong liquor would have done, for which reason they feed chiefly
on milk and vegetables.'

As profit, not pleasure, was the aim of these knights of darkness, they lay concealed under
all shapes and disguises, and followed up their game with all wariness and discretion. Like
wise traders, they made it the business of their lives to excel in their calling.

For this end they studied the secret mysteries of their art by night and by day; they improved
on the scientific schemes of their profound master, Hoyle, and on his deep doctrines and calculations
of chances. They became skilful without a rival where skill was necessary, and fraudulent without
conscience where fraud was safe and advantageous; and while fortune or chance appeared to direct
everything, they practised numberless devices by which they insured her ultimate favours to
themselves.

Of these none were more efficacious, because none are more ensnaring, than bribing their young
and artless dupes to future play by suffering them to win at their first onsets. By rising
a winner the dupe imbibed a confidence in his own gambling abilities, or deemed himself a favourite
of fortune. He engaged again, and was again successful--which increased his exultation and
confirmed his future confidence; and thus did the simple gudgeon swallow their bait, till it
became at last fast hooked.

When rendered thus secure of their prey, they began to level their whole train of artillery
against the boasted honours of his short-lived triumph. Then the extensive manors, the ancient
forests, the paternal mansions, began to tremble for their future destiny. The pigeon was marked
down, and the infernal crew began in good earnest to pluck his rich plumage. The wink was given
on his appearance in the room, as a signal of commencing their covert attacks. The shrug, the
nod, the hem--every motion of the eyes, hands, feet--every air and gesture, look and word--became
an expressive, though disguised, language of fraud and cozenage, big with deceit and swollen
with ruin. Besides this, the card was marked, or 'slipped,' or COVERED. The story is told of
a noted sharper of distinction, a foreigner, whose hand was thrust through with a fork by his
adversary, Captain Roche, and thus nailed to the table, with this cool expression of concern--'I
ask your pardon, sir, if you have not the knave of clubs under your hand.' The cards were packed,
or cut, or even SWALLOWED. A card has been eaten between two slices of bread and butter, for
the purpose of concealment.

With wily craft the sharpers substituted their deceitful 'doctors' or false dice; and thus
'crabs,' or 'a losing game,' became the portion of the 'flats,' or dupes.

There were different ways of throwing dice. There was the 'Stamp'--when the caster with an
elastic spring of the wrist rapped the cornet or box with vehemence on the table, the dice
as yet not appearing from under the box. The 'Dribble' was, when with an air of easy but ingenious
motion, the caster poured, as it were, the dice on the board--when, if he happened to be an
old practitioner, he might suddenly cog with his fore-finger one of the cubes. The 'Long Gallery'
was when the dice were flung or hurled the whole length of the board. Sometimes the dice were
thrown off the table, near a confederate, who, in picking them up, changed one of the fair
for a false die with two sixes. This was generally done at the first throw, and at the last,
when the fair die was replaced. The sixes were on the opposite squares, so that the fraud could
only be detected by examination. Of course this trick could only be practised at raffles, where
only three throws are required.

A pair of false dice was arranged as follows:--

