"You bet they'll give you work soon, and enough," said Nancy Ellen, laughing.  "But you won't
mind.  You'll just put it through, as you do things out here.  Kate, you are making this place
look fine.  I used to say I'd rather die than come back here to live, but lately it has been
growing so attractive, I've been here about half my time, and wished I were the other half."

Kate slipped her arm around Nancy Ellen as they walked to the gate.

"You know," said Nancy Ellen, "the MORE I study you, the LESS I know about you.  Usually it's
sickness, and sorrow, and losing their friends that bring people to the consolations of the
church. You bore those things like a stoic.  When they are all over, and you are comfortable
and happy, just the joy of being sure of Little Poll has transformed you.  Kate, you make me
think of the 'Winged Victory,' this afternoon. If I get this darling little girl, will she
make me big, and splendid, and fine, like you?"

Kate suddenly drew Nancy Ellen to her and kissed her a long, hard kiss on the lips.

"Nancy Ellen," she said, "you ARE 'big, and splendid, and fine,' or you never would be going
to Chicago after this little motherless child. You haven't said a word, but I know from the
joy of you and Robert during the past months that Mrs. Southey isn't troubling you any more;
and I'm sure enough to put it into words that when you get your little child, she will lead
you straight where mine as led me.  Good-bye and good luck to you, and remember me to Robert."

Nancy Ellen stood intently studying the picture she held in her hand. Then she looked at Kate,
smiling with misty eyes:  "I think, Kate, I'm very close, if I am not really where you are
this minute," she said. Then she started her car; but she looked back, waving and smiling until
the car swerved so that Kate called after her:  "Do drive carefully, Nancy Ellen!"

Kate went slowly up the walk.  She stopped several times to examine the shrubs and bushes closely,
to wish for rain for the flowers.  She sat on the porch a few minutes talking to Little Poll,
then she went inside to answer the phone.

"Kate?" cried a sharp voice.

"Yes," said Kate, recognizing a neighbour, living a few miles down the road.

"Did Nancy Ellen just leave your house?" came a breathless query.

"Yes," said Kate again.

"I just saw a car that looked like hers slip in the fresh sand at the river levee, and it went
down, and two or three times over."

"O God!" said Kate.  Then after an instant:  "Ring the dinner bell for your men to get her
out.  I'll phone Robert, and come as soon as I can get there."

Kate called Dr. Gray's office.  She said to the girl:  "Tell the doctor that Mrs. Howe thinks
she saw Nancy Ellen's car go down the river levee, and two or three times over.  Have him bring
what he might need to Howe's, and hurry.  Rush him!"

Then she ran to her bell and rang so frantically that Adam came running.  Kate was at the little
garage they had built, and had the door open.  She told him what she had heard, ran to get
the baby, and met him at the gate.  On the way she said, "You take the baby when we get there,
and if I'm needed, take her back and get Milly and her mother to come stay with you.  You know
where her things are, and how to feed her.  Don't you dare let them change any way I do.  Baby
knows Milly; she will be good for her and for you.  You'll be careful?"

"Of course, Mother," said Adam.

He called her attention to the road.

"Look at those tracks," he said.  "Was she sick?  She might have been drunk, from them."

"No," said Kate, "she wasn't sick.  She WAS drunk, drunken with joy. She had a picture of the
most beautiful little baby girl. They were to start to Chicago after her to-night.  I suspect
she was driving with the picture in one hand.  Oh, my God, have mercy!"

They had come to deep grooves in loose gravel, then the cut in the embankment, then they could
see the wrecked car standing on the engine and lying against a big tree, near the water, while
two men and a woman were carrying a limp form across the meadow toward the house.  As their
car stopped, Kate kissed the baby mechanically, handed her to Adam, and ran into the house
where she dragged a couch to the middle of the first room she entered, found a pillow, and
brought a bucket of water and a towel from the kitchen.  They carried Nancy Ellen in and laid
her down. Kate began unfastening clothing and trying to get the broken body in shape for the
doctor to work upon; but she spread the towel over what had been a face of unusual beauty.
Robert came in a few minutes, then all of them worked under his directions until he suddenly
sank to the floor, burying his face in Nancy Ellen's breast; then they knew.  Kate gathered
her sister's feet in her arms and hid her face beside them. The neighbours silently began taking
away things that had been used, while Mrs. Howe chose her whitest sheet, and laid it on a chair
near Robert.

Two days later they laid Nancy Ellen beside her mother.  Then they began trying to face the
problem of life without her.  Robert said nothing.  He seemed too stunned to think.  Kate wanted
to tell him of her final visit with Nancy Ellen, but she could not at that time. Robert's aged
mother came to him, and said she could remain as long as he wanted her, so that was a comfort
to Kate, who took time to pity him, even in her blackest hour.  She had some very black ones.
She could have wailed, and lamented, and relinquished all she had gained, but she did not.
She merely went on with life, as she always had lived it, to the best of her ability when she
was so numbed with grief she scarcely knew what she was doing. She kept herself driven about
the house, and when she could find no more to do, took Little Poll in her arms and went out
in the fields to Adam, where she found the baby a safe place, and then cut and husked corn
as usual.  Every Sabbath, and often during the week, her feet carried her to the cemetery,
where she sat in the deep grass and looked at those three long mounds and tried to understand
life; deeper still, to fathom death.

She and her mother had agreed that there was "something."  Now Kate tried as never before to
understand what, and where, and why, that "something" was.  Many days she would sit for an
hour at a time, thinking, and at last she arrived at fixed convictions that settled matters
forever with her.  One day after she had arranged the fall roses she had grown, and some roadside
asters she had gathered in passing, she sat in deep thought, when a car stopped on the road.
Kate looked up to see Robert coming across the churchyard with his arms full of greenhouse
roses.  He carried a big bunch of deep red for her mother, white for Polly, and a large sheaf
of warm pink for Nancy Ellen.  Kate knelt up and taking her flowers, she moved them lower,
and silently helped Robert place those he had brought.  Then she sat where she had been, and
looked at him.

Finally he asked:  "Still hunting the 'why,' Kate?"

"'Why' doesn't so much matter," said Kate, "as 'where.'  I'm enough of a fatalist to believe
that Mother is here because she was old and worn out.  Polly had a clear case of uric poison,
while I'd stake my life Nancy Ellen was gloating over the picture she carried when she ran
into that loose sand.  In each of their cases I am satisfied as to 'why,' as well as about
Father.  The thing that holds me, and fascinates me, and that I have such a time being sure
of, is 'where.'"

Robert glanced upward and asked:  "Isn't there room enough up there, Kate?"

"Too much!" said Kate.  "And what IS the soul, and HOW can it bridge the vortex lying between
us and other worlds, that man never can, because of the lack of air to breathe, and support him?"

"I don't know," said Robert; "and in spite of the fact that I do know what a man CANNOT do,
I still believe in the immortality of the soul."

"Oh, yes," said Kate.  "If there is any such thing in science as a self-evident fact, that
is one.  THAT is provable."

Robert looked at her eager face.  "How would you go about proving it, Kate?" he asked.

"Why, this way," said Kate, leaning to straighten and arrange the delicate velvet petalled
roses with her sure, work-abused fingers. "Take the history of the world from as near dawn
as we have any record, and trace it from the igloo of the northernmost Esquimo, around the
globe, and down to the ice of the southern pole again, and in blackest Africa, farthest, wildest
Borneo, you will never discover one single tribe of creatures, upright and belonging to the
race of man, who did not come into the world with four primal instincts.  They all reproduce
themselves, they all make something intended for music, they all express a feeling in their
hearts by the exercise we call dance, they all believe in the after life of the soul.  This
belief is as much a PART of any man, ever born in any location, as his hands and his feet.
Whether he believes his soul enters a cat and works back to man again after long transmigration,
or goes to a Happy Hunting Ground as our Indians, makes no difference with the fact that he
enters this world with belief in after life of some kind.  We see material evidence in increase
that man is not defeated in his desire to reproduce himself; we have advanced to something
better than tom-toms and pow-wows for music and dance; these desires are fulfilled before us,
now tell me why the very strongest of all, the most deeply rooted, the belief in after life,
should come to nothing.  Why should the others be real, and that a dream?"

"I don't think it is," said Robert.

"It's my biggest self-evident fact," said Kate, conclusively.  "I never heard any one else
say these things, but I think them, and they are provable.  I always believed there was something;
but since I saw Mother go, I know there is.  She stood in full evening light, I looked straight
in her face, and Robert, you know I'm no creature of fancies and delusions, I tell you I SAW
HER SOUL PASS. I saw the life go from her and go on, and on.  I saw her body stand erect, long
enough for me to reach her, and pick her up, after its passing.  That I know."

"I shouldn't think of questioning it, Kate," said Robert.  "But don't you think you are rather
limiting man, when you narrow him to four primal instincts?"

"Oh, I don't know," said Kate.  "Air to breathe and food to sustain are presupposed.  Man LEARNS
to fight in self-defense, and to acquire what he covets.  He learns to covet by seeing stronger
men, in better locations, surpass his achievements, so if he is strong enough he goes and robs
them by force.  He learns the desire for the chase in food hunting; I think four are plenty
to start with."

"Probably you are right," said the doctor, rising.  "I must go now. Shall I take you home?"

Kate glanced at the sun and shook her head.  "I can stay half an hour longer.  I don't mind
the walk.  I need exercise to keep me in condition.  Good-bye!"

As he started his car he glanced back.  She was leaning over the flowers absorbed in their
beauty.  Kate sat looking straight before her until time to help with the evening work, and
prepare supper, then she arose.  She stood looking down a long time; finally she picked up
a fine specimen of each of the roses and slowly dropped them on her father's grave.

"There!  You may have that many," she said.  "You look a little too lonely, lying here beside
the others with not a single one, but if you could speak, I wonder whether you would say, 'Thank
you!' or 'Take the damn weeds off me!'"

CHAPTER XXVII

BLUE RIBBON CORN

NEVER in her life had Kate worked harder than she did that fall; but she retained her splendid
health.  Everything was sheltered and housed, their implements under cover, their stock in
good condition, their store-room filled, and their fruits and vegetables buried in hills and
long rows in the garden.  Adam had a first wheat premium at the County Fair and a second on
corn, concerning which he felt abused.  He thought his corn scored the highest number of points,
but that the award was given another man because of Adam's having had first on wheat.  In her
heart Kate agreed with him; but she tried to satisfy him with the blue ribbon on wheat and
keep him interested sufficiently to try for the first on corn the coming year.  She began making
suggestions for the possible improvement of his corn.  Adam was not easily propitiated.

"Mother," he said, "you know as well as you know you're alive, that if I had failed on wheat,
or had second, I would have been given FIRST on my corn; my corn was the best in every way,
but they thought I would swell up and burst if I had two blue ribbons. That was what ailed
the judges.  What encouragement is that to try again?  I might grow even finer corn in the
coming year than I did this, and be given no award at all, because I had two this year. It
would amount to exactly the same thing."

"We'll get some more books, and see if we can study up any new wrinkles, this winter," said
Kate.  "Now cheer up, and go tell Milly about it.  Maybe she can console you, if I can't."

"Nothing but justice will console me," said Adam.  "I'm not complaining about losing the prize;
I'm fighting mad because my corn, my beautiful corn, that grew and grew, and held its head
so high, and waved its banners of triumph to me with every breeze, didn't get its fair show.
What encouragement is there for it to try better the coming year?  The crows might as well
have had it, or the cutworms; while all my work is for nothing."

"You're making a big mistake," said Kate.  "If your corn was the finest, it was, and the judges
knew it, and you know it, and very likely the man who has the first prize, knows it.  You have
a clean conscience, and you know what you know.  They surely can't feel right about it, or
enjoy what they know.  You have had the experience, you have the corn for seed; with these
things to back you, clear a small strip of new land beside the woods this winter, and try what
that will do for you."

Adam looked at her with wide eyes.  "By jing, Mother, you are a dandy!" he said.  "You just
bet I'll try that next year, but don't you tell a soul; there are more than you who will let
a strip be cleared, in an effort to grow blue ribbon corn.  How did you come to think of it?"

"Your saying all your work had been for nothing, made me think of it," she answered.  "Let
them give another man the prize, when they know your corn is the best.  It's their way of keeping
a larger number of people interested and avoiding the appearance of partiality; this contest
was too close; next year, you grow such corn, that the CORN will force the decision in spite
of the judges.  Do you see?"

"I see," said Adam.  "I'll try again."

After that life went on as usual.  The annual Christmas party was the loveliest of all, because
Kate gave it loving thought, and because all of their hearts were especially touched.  As spring
came on again, Kate and Adam studied over their work, planning many changes for the better,
but each time they talked, when everything else was arranged, they came back to corn.  More
than once, each of them dreamed corn that winter while asleep, they frankly talked of it many
times a day.  Location, soil, fertilizers, seed, cultivation--they even studied the almanacs
for a general forecast of the weather.  These things brought them very close together.  Also
it was admitted between them, that Little Poll "grappled them with hooks of steel."  They never
lacked subjects for conversation.  Poll always came first, corn next, and during the winter
there began to be discussion of plans for Adam and Milly.  Should Milly come with them, or
should they build a small house on the end of the farm nearest her mother? Adam did not care,
so he married Milly speedily.  Kate could not make up her mind.  Milly had the inclination
of a bird for a personal and private nest of her own.  So spring came to them.

August brought the anniversary of Nancy Ellen's death, which again saddened all of them.  Then
came cooler September weather, and the usual rush of preparation for winter.  Kate was everywhere
and enjoying her work immensely.  On sturdy, tumbly legs Little Poll trotted after her or rode
in state on her shoulder, when distances were too far.  If Kate took her to the fields, as
she did every day, she carried along the half of an old pink and white quilt, which she spread
in a shaded place and filled the baby's lap with acorns, wild flowers, small brightly coloured
stones, shells, and whatever she could pick up for playthings.  Poll amused herself with these
until the heat and air made her sleepy, then she laid herself down and slept for an hour or
two. Once she had trouble with stomach teeth that brought Dr. Gray racing, and left Kate white
and limp with fear.  Everything else had gone finely and among helping Adam, working in her
home, caring for the baby, doing whatever she could see that she thought would be of benefit
to the community, and what was assigned her by church committees, Kate had a busy life.  She
had earned, in a degree, the leadership she exercised in her first days in Walden.  Everyone
liked her; but no one ever ventured to ask her for an opinion unless they truly wanted it.

Adam came from a run to Hartley for groceries one evening in late September, with a look of
concern that Kate noticed on his face. He was very silent during supper and when they were
on the porch as usual, he still sat as if thinking deeply.  Kate knew that he would tell her
what he was thinking about when he was ready but she was not in the least prepared for what
he said.

"Mother, how do you feel about Uncle Robert marrying again?" he asked suddenly.

Kate was too surprised to answer.  She looked at him in amazement. Instead of answering, she
asked him a question:  "What makes you ask that?"

"You know how that Mrs. Southey pursued him one summer.  Well, she's back in Hartley, staying
at the hotel right across from his office; she's dressed to beat the band, she's pretty as
a picture; her car stands out in front all day, and to get to ride in it, and take meals with
her, all the women are running after her.  I hear she has even had Robert's old mother out
for a drive.  What do you think of that?"

"Think she's in love with him, of course, and trying to marry him, and that she will very probably
succeed.  If she has located where she is right under his eye, and lets him know that she wants
him very much, he'll, no doubt, marry her."

"But what do you THINK about it?" asked Adam.

"I've had no TIME to think," said Kate.  "At first blush, I'd say that I shall hate it, as
badly as I could possibly hate anything that was none of my immediate business.  Nancy Ellen
loved him so. I never shall forget that day she first told me about him, and how loving him
brought out her beauty, and made her shine and glow as if from an inner light. I was always
with her most, and I loved her more than all the other girls put together.  I know that Southey
woman tried to take him from her one summer not long ago, and that he gave her to understand
that she could not, so she went away.  If she's back, it means only one thing, and I think
probably she'll succeed; but you can be sure it will make me squirm properly."

"I THOUGHT you wouldn't like it," he said emphatically.

"Now understand me, Adam," said Kate.  "I'm no fool.  I didn't expect Robert to be more than
human.  He has no children, and he'd like a child above anything else on earth.  I've known
that for years, ever since it became apparent that none was coming to Nancy Ellen.  I hadn't
given the matter a thought, but if I had been thinking, I would have thought that as soon as
was proper, he would select a strong, healthy young woman, and make her his wife. I know his
mother is homesick, and wants to go back to her daughters and their children, which is natural.
I haven't an objection in the world to him marrying a PROPER woman, at a proper time and place;
but Oh, dear Lord, I do dread and despise to see that little Southey cat come back and catch
him, because she knows how."

"Did you ever see her, Mother?"

"No, I never," said Kate, "and I hope I never shall.  I know what Nancy Ellen felt, because
she told me all about it that time we were up North.  I'm trying with all my might to have
a Christian spirit.  I swallowed Mrs. Peters, and never blinked, that anybody saw; but I don't,
I truly don't know from where I could muster grace to treat a woman decently, who tried to
do to my sister, what I KNOW Mrs. Southey tried to do to Nancy Ellen. She throws the ring in
the air and it falls into the deep water. Mélisande displays agitation: "What shall we say if
Golaud asks where it is?" "The truth, the truth," replies Pelléas.

The scene changes to an apartment in the castle. Golaud lies upon a bed, with Mélisande bending
over him. He has been wounded while hunting. Mélisande is compassionate, perhaps remorseful.
She too, she confesses, is ill, unhappy, though she will not tell
Golaud what it is that ails her.

Her husband discovers the absence of her wedding-ring, and harshly,
suspiciously, asks where it is.

Mélisande, confused and terrified, dissembles, and answers that she must have lost it in a
grotto by the seashore, when she went there in the morning to pick shells for little Yniold.
She is sure it is there. Golaud bids her go at once and search for
it.

She fears to go alone, and he suggests that she ask Pelléas to accompany her.

The next scene discovers Mélisande with Pelléas in the grotto. They are deeply agitated. It is
very dark, but Pelléas describes to her the look of the place, for, he tells her, she must
be able to answer Golaud if he should question her. The moon breaks through the clouds and
illumines brightly the interior, revealing three old and white-haired
beggars asleep against a ledge of rock.

Mélisande is uneasy, and would go. They depart in silence.

ACT III

The opening scene of the third act shows the exterior of one of the towers of the castle, with
a winding staircase passing beneath a window at which sits Mélisande, combing her unbound hair,
and singing in the starlit darkness--"like a beautiful strange bird," says Pelléas, who enters
by the winding stair. He entreats her to lean further forward out of the window, that he may
come closer, that he may touch her hand; for, he says, he is leaving on the morrow. She leans further
out, telling him that he may take her hand if he will promise not to leave on the next day. Suddenly
her long tresses fall over her head and stream about Pelléas. He is enraptured. "I have never
seen such hair as yours, Mélisande! See! see! Though it comes from so high, it floods me to
the heart!... And it is sweet, sweet as though it fell from heaven!...
I can no longer see the sky through your locks.... My two hands can
no longer hold them.... They are alive like birds in my hands.

And they love me, they love me more than you do!" Mélisande begs to be released, Pelléas kisses
the enveloping tresses.... "Do you hear my kisses?--They mount along your hair." Doves come
from the tower--Mélisande's doves--and fly about them. They are frightened, and are flying away.
"They will be lost in the dark!" laments Mélisande. Golaud enters
by the winding stair, and surprises them.

Above, the flocking larks pierced the air with silver notes, on the fence-rows the gathering
robins called to each other; high in the air the old black vulture that homed in a hollow log
in Kate's woods, looked down on the spots of colour made by the pink quilt, the gold corn,
the blue of Kate's dress, and her yellow head.  An artist would have paused long, over the
rich colour, the grouping and perspective of that picture, while the hazy fall atmosphere softened
and blended the whole.  Kate, herself, never had appeared or felt better.  She worked rapidly,
often glancing across the field to see if she was even with, or slightly in advance of Adam.
She said it would never do to let the boy get "heady," so she made a point of keeping even
with him, and caring for Little Poll, "for good measure."

She was smiling as she watched him working like a machine as he ripped open husks, gave the
ear a twist, tossed it aside, and reached for the next.  Kate was doing the same thing, quite
as automatically.  She was beginning to find the afternoon sun almost hot on her bare head,
so she turned until it fell on her back. Her face was flushed to coral pink, and framed in
a loose border of her beautiful hair.  She was smiling at the thought of how Adam was working
to get ahead of her, smiling because Little Poll looked such a picture of healthy loveliness,
smiling because she was so well, she felt super-abundant health rising like a stimulating tide
in her body, smiling because the corn was the finest she ever had seen in a commonly cultivated
field, smiling because she and Adam were of one accord about everything, smiling because the
day was very beautiful, because her heart was at peace, her conscience clear.

She heard a car stop at her gate, saw a man alight and start across the yard toward the field,
and knew that her visitor had seen her, and was coming to her.  Kate went on husking corn and
when the man swung over the fence of the field she saw that he was Robert, and instantly thought
of Mrs. Southey, so she ceased to smile.  "I've got a big notion to tell him what I think of
him," she said to herself, even as she looked up to greet him. Instantly she saw that he had
come for something.

"What is it?" she asked.

"Agatha," he said.  "She's been having some severe heart attacks lately, and she just gave
me a real scare."

Instantly Kate forgot everything, except Agatha, whom she cordially liked, and Robert, who
appeared older, more tired, and worried than she ever had seen him.  She thought Agatha had
"given him a real scare," and she decided that it scarcely would have been bad enough to put
lines in his face she never had noticed before, dark circles under his eyes, a look of weariness
in his bearing.  She doubted as she looked at him if he were really courting Mrs. Southey.
Even as she thought of these things she was asking:  "She's better now?"

"Yes, easier, but she suffered terribly.  Adam was upset completely. Adam, 3d, and Susan and
their families are away from home and won't be back for a few days unless I send for them.
They went to Ohio to visit some friends.  I stopped to ask if it would be possible for you
to go down this evening and sleep there, so that if there did happen to be a recurrence, Adam
wouldn't be alone."

"Of course," said Kate, glancing at the baby.  "I'll go right away!"

"No need for that," he said, "if you'll arrange to stay with Adam to-night, as a precaution.
You needn't go till bed-time.  I'm going back after supper to put them in shape for the night.
I'm almost sure she'll be all right now; but you know how frightened we can get about those
we love."

"Yes, I know," said Kate, quietly, going straight on ripping open ear after ear of corn.  Presently
she wondered why he did not go. She looked up at him and met his eyes.  He was studying her
intently.  Kate was vividly conscious in an instant of her bare wind-teased head, her husking
gloves; she was not at all sure that her face was clean.  She smiled at him, and picking up
the sunbonnet lying beside her, she wiped her face with the skirt.

"If this sun hits too long on the same spot, it grows warm," she told him.

"Kate, I do wish you wouldn't!" he exclaimed abruptly.

Kate was too forthright for sparring.

"Why not?" she asked.

"For one thing, you are doing a man's work," he said.  "For another, I hate to see you burn
the loveliest hair I ever saw on the head of a woman, and coarsen your fine skin."

Kate looked down at the ear of corn she held in her hands, and considered an instant.

"There hasn't any man been around asking to relieve me of this work," she said.  "I got my
start in life doing a man's work, and I'm frank to say that I'd far rather do it any day, than
what is usually considered a woman's.  As for my looks, I never set a price on them or let
them interfere with business, Robert."

"No, I know you don't," he said.  "But it's a pity to spoil you."

"I don't know what's the matter with you," said Kate, patiently. She bent her head toward him.
"Feel," she said, "and see if my hair isn't soft and fine.  I always cover it in really burning
sun; this autumn haze is good for it.  My complexion is exactly as smooth and even now, as
it was the day I first met you on the footlog over twenty years ago. There's one good thing
about the Bates women.  They wear well.  None of us yet have ever faded, and frazzled out.
Have you got many Hartley women, doing what you call women's work, to compare with me physically,
Robert?"

"You know the answer to that," he said.

"So I do!" said Kate.  "I see some of them occasionally, when business calls me that way. 
Now, Robert, I'm so well, I feel like running a footrace the first thing when I wake up every
morning. I'm making money, I'm starting my boy in a safe, useful life; have you many year and
a half babies in your practice that can beat Little Poll?  I'm as happy as it's humanly possible
for me to be without Mother, and Polly, and Nancy Ellen.  Mother used always to say that when
death struck a family it seldom stopped until it took three.  That was my experience, and saving
Adam and Little Poll, it took my three dearest; but the separation isn't going to be so very
long.  If I were you I wouldn't worry about me, Robert. There are many women in the world willing
to pay for your consideration; save it for them."

"Kate, I'm sorry I said anything," he said hastily.  "I wouldn't offend you purposely, you know."

Kate looked at him in surprise.  "But I'm not offended," she said, snapping an ear and reaching
for another.  "I am merely telling you! Don't give me a thought!  I'm all right!  If you'll
save me an hour the next time Little Poll has a tooth coming through, you'll have completely
earned my gratitude.  Tell Agatha I'll come as soon as I finish my evening work."

That was clearly a dismissal, for Kate glancing across the field toward Adam, saw that he had
advanced to a new shock, so she began husking faster than before.

CHAPTER XXVIII

THE ELEVENTH HOUR

ROBERT said good-bye and started back toward his car.  Kate looked after him as he reached
the fence.  A surge of pity for him swept up in her heart.  He seemed far from happy, and he
surely was very tired. Impulsive as always, she lifted her clear voice and called:  "Robert!"

He paused with his foot on a rail of the fence, and turned toward her.

"Have you had any dinner?" she asked.

He seemed to be considering.  "Come to think of it, I don't believe I have," he said.

"I thought you looked neglected," said Kate.  "Sonny across the field is starting a shock ahead
of me; I can't come, but go to the kitchen--the door is unlocked--you'll find fried chicken
and some preserves and pickles in the pantry; the bread box is right there, and the milk and
butter are in the spring house."

He gave Kate one long look.  "Thank you," he said and leaped the fence. He stopped on the front
walk and stood a minute, then he turned and went around the house.  She laughed aloud.  She
was sending him to chicken perfectly cooked, barely cold, melon preserves, pickled cucumbers,
and bread like that which had for years taken a County Fair prize each fall; butter yellow
as the goldenrod lining the fences, and cream stiff enough to stand alone.  Also, he would
find neither germ nor mould in her pantry and spring house, while it would be a new experience
for him to let him wait on himself.  Kate husked away in high good humour, but she quit an
hour early to be on time to go to Agatha.  She explained this to Adam, when she told him that
he would have to milk alone, while she bathed and dressed herself and got supper.

When she began to dress, Kate examined her hair minutely, and combed it with unusual care.
If Robert was at Agatha's when she got there, she would let him see that her hair was not sunburned
and ruined.  To match the hair dressing, she reached back in her closet and took down her second
best white dress.  She was hoping that Agatha would be well enough to have a short visit. 
Kate worked so steadily that she seldom saw any of her brothers and sisters during the summer.
In winter she spent a day with each of them, if she could possibly manage.  Anyway, Agatha
would like to see her appearing well, so she put on the plain snowy linen, and carefully pinning
a big apron over it, she went to the kitchen. They always had a full dinner at noon and worked
until dusk. Her bath had made her later than she intended to be.  Dusk was deepening, evening
chill was beginning to creep into the air.  She closed the door, fed Little Poll and rolled
her into bed; set the potatoes boiling, and began mixing the biscuit.  She had them just ready
to roll when steam lifted the lid of the potato pot; with the soft dough in her hand she took
a step to right it.  While it was in her fingers, she peered into the pot.

She did not look up on the instant the door opened, because she thought it would be Adam. 
When she glanced toward the door, she saw Robert standing looking at her.  He had stepped inside,
closed the door, and with his hand on the knob was waiting for her to see him.

"Oh!  Hello!" said Kate.   "I thought it was Adam.  Have you been to Agatha's yet?"

"Yes.  She is very much better," he said.  "I only stopped to tell you that her mother happened
to come out for the night, and they'll not need you."

"I'm surely glad she is better," said Kate, "but I'm rather disappointed.  I've been swimming,
and I'm all ready to go."

She set the pot lid in place accurately and gave her left hand a deft turn to save the dough
from dripping.  She glanced from it to Robert, expecting to see him open the door and disappear.
Instead he stood looking at her intently.  Suddenly he said:  "Kate, will you marry me?"

Kate mechanically saved the dough again, as she looked at the pot an instant, then she said
casually:  "Sure!  It would be splendid to have a doctor right in the house when Little Poll
cuts her double teeth."

"Thank you!" said Robert, tersely.  "No doubt that WOULD be a privilege, but I decline to marry
you in order to see Little Poll safely through teething.  Good-night!"

He stepped outside and closed the door very completely, and somewhat pronouncedly.

Kate stood straight an instant, then realized biscuit dough was slowly creeping down her wrist.
With a quick fling, she shot the mass into the scrap bucket and sinking on the chair she sat
on to peel vegetables, she lifted her apron, laid her head on her knees, and gave a big gulping
sob or two.  Then she began to cry silently. As he turns a sweet voice says:

"Good-bye, papa dear; I'm going to school."

"Good-bye, Doretta," he answers, stooping to kiss a pretty little maid of eight or nine; and at
the same instant Signora Evelina calls out from over the way:

"Good-morning,
Doretta!"

Doretta, who had made a little grimace on discovering her papa in
conversation with his pretty neighbor, makes another as she hears
herself greeted, and mutters reluctantly, "Good-morning."

"Oh, DRAT Little Poll's teeth!" cried Kate, the tears rolling uninterruptedly.

"Then WHY did you say that to me?" he demanded.

"Well, you said you 'only stopped to tell me that I needn't go to Agatha's,'" she explained.
"I had to say something, to get even with you!"

"Oh," said Robert, and took possession.  Kate put her arms around his neck, drew his head against
hers, and knew a minute of complete joy.

When Adam entered the house his mother was very busy.  She was mixing more biscuit dough, she
was laughing like a girl of sixteen, she snatched out one of their finest tablecloths, and
put on many extra dishes for supper, while Uncle Robert, looking like a different man, was
helping her.  He was actually stirring the gravy, and getting the water, and setting up chairs.
And he was under high tension, too.  He was saying things of no moment, as if they were profound
wisdom, and laughing hilariously at things that were scarcely worth a smile.  Adam looked on,
and marvelled and all the while his irritation grew.  At last he saw a glance of understanding
pass between them.  He could endure it no longer.

"Oh, you might as well SAY what you think," he burst forth.  "You forgot to pull down the blinds."

Both the brazen creatures laughed as if that were a fine joke. They immediately threw off all
reserve.  By the time the meal was finished, Adam was struggling to keep from saying the meanest
things he could think of.  Also, he had to go to Milly, with nothing very definite to tell.
But when he came back, his mother was waiting for him.  She said at once:  "Adam, I'm very
sorry the blind was up to-night.  I wanted to talk to you, and tell you myself, that the first
real love for a man that I have ever known, is in my heart to-night."

"Why, Mother!" said Adam.

"It's true," said Kate, quietly.  "You see Adam, the first time I ever saw Robert Gray, I knew,
and he knew, that he had made a mistake in engaging himself to Nancy Ellen; but the thing was
done, she was happy, we simply realized that we would have done better together, and let it
go at that.  But all these years I have known that I could have made him a wife who would have
come closer to his ideals than my sister, and SHE should have had the man who wanted to marry
me.  They would have had a wonderful time together."

"And where did my father come in?" asked Adam, quietly.

"He took advantage of my blackest hour," said Kate.  "I married him when I positively didn't
care what happened to me.  The man I could have LOVED was married to my sister, the man I could
have married and lived with in comfort to both of us was out of the question; it was in the
Bates blood to marry about the time I did; I had seen only the very best of your father, and
he was an attractive lover, not bad looking, not embarrassed with one single scruple--it's
the way of the world.  I took it.  I paid for it. Only God knows how dearly I paid; but Adam,
if you love me, stand by me now.  Let me have this eleventh hour happiness, with no alloy.
Anything I feel for your Uncle Robert has nothing in the world to do with my being your mother;
with you being my son. Kiss me, and tell me you're glad, Adam."

Adam rose up and put his arms around his mother.  All his resentment was gone.  He was happy
as he could be for his mother, and happier than he ever before had been for himself.

The following afternoon, Kate took the car and went to see Agatha instead of husking corn.
She dressed with care and arrived about three o'clock, leading Poll in whitest white, with
cheeks still rosy from her afternoon nap.  Agatha was sitting up and delighted to see them.
She said they were the first of the family who had come to visit her, and she thought they
had come because she was thinking of them.  Then she told Kate about her illness.  She said
it dated from father Bates stroke, and the dreadful days immediately following, when Adam had
completely lost self-control, and she had not been able to influence him.  "I think it broke
my heart," she said simply.  Then they talked the family over, and at last Agatha said:  "Kate,
what is this I hear about Robert?  Have you been informed that Mrs. Southey is back in Hartley,
and that she is working every possible chance and using multifarious blandishments on him?"

Kate laughed heartily and suddenly.  She never had heard "blandishments" used in common conversation.
As she struggled to regain self-possession Agatha spoke again.

"It's no laughing matter," she said.  "The report has every ear-mark of verisimilitude.  The
Bates family has a way of feeling deeply.  We all loved Nancy Ellen.  We all suffered severely
and lost something that never could be replaced when she went.  Of course all of us realized
that Robert would enter the bonds of matrimony again; none of us would have objected, even
if he remarried soon; but all of us do object to his marrying a woman who would have broken
Nancy Ellen's heart if she could; and yesterday I took advantage of my illness, and TOLD him
so. Then I asked him why a man of his standing and ability in this community didn't frustrate
that unprincipled creature's vermiculations toward him, by marrying you, at once."

Slowly Kate sank down in her chair.  Her face whitened and then grew greenish.  She breathed
with difficulty.

"Oh, Agatha!" was all she could say.

"I do not regret it," said Agatha.  "If he is going to ruin himself, he is not going to do
it without knowing that the Bates family highly disapprove of his course."

"But why drag me in?" said Kate, almost too shocked to speak at all. "Maybe he LOVES Mrs. Southey.
She has let him see how she feels about him; possibly he feels the same about her."

"He does, if he weds her," said Agatha, conclusively.  "Anything any one could say or do would
have no effect, if he had centred his affections upon her, of that you may be very sure."

"May I?" asked Kate, dully.

"Indeed, you may!" said Agatha.  "The male of the species, when he is a man of Robert's attainments
and calibre, can be swerved from pursuit of the female he covets, by nothing save extinction."

"You mean," said Kate with an effort, "that if Robert asked a woman to marry him, it would
mean that he loved her."

"Indubitably!" cried Agatha.

Kate laughed until she felt a little better, but she went home in a mood far different from
that in which she started.  Then she had been very happy, and she had intended to tell Agatha
about her happiness, the very first of all.  Now she was far from happy. Possibly--a thousand
things, the most possible, that Robert had responded to Agatha's suggestion, and stopped and
asked her that abrupt question, from an impulse as sudden and inexplicable as had possessed
her when she married George Holt.  Kate fervently wished she had gone to the cornfield as usual
that afternoon.

"That's the way it goes," she said angrily, as she threw off her better dress and put on her
every-day gingham to prepare supper. "That's the way it goes!  Stay in your element, and go
on with your work, and you're all right.  Leave your job and go trapesing over the country,
wasting your time, and you get a heartache to pay you.  I might as well give up the idea that
I'm ever to be happy, like anybody else. Run and tell them to get breakfast ready."

Doretta runs off obediently, but reappears in a moment.
"Daddy, daddy, what do you suppose has happened? The dining-room
stove won't draw, and the room is all full of smoke!"

"Then let us
breakfast here, child."  She finished her work, put Little Poll to bed, and made herself
as attractive as she knew how in her prettiest blue dress.  All the time she debated whether
she would say anything to him about what Agatha had said or not.  She decided she would wait
awhile, and watch how he acted.  She thought she could soon tell.  So when Robert came, she
was as nearly herself as possible, but when he began to talk about being married soon, the
most she would say was that she would begin to think about it at Christmas, and tell him by
spring.  Robert was bitterly disappointed. The thermometer marks barely one degree above freezing,
the sky is covered with ominous white clouds, the air is harsh and piercing; what can induce
Signor Odoardo, at nine o'clock on such a morning, to stand in his
study window? 
Of the reason in Kate's mind, he had not a glimmering.  But Kate had her way.  She would not
even talk of a time, or express an opinion as to whether she would remain on the farm, or live
in Nancy Ellen's house, or sell it and build whatever she wanted for herself. Robert went away
baffled, and disappointed over some intangible thing he could not understand.

For six weeks Kate tortured herself, and kept Robert from being happy. Then one morning Agatha
stopped to visit with her, while Adam drove on to town.  After they had exhausted farming,
Little Poll's charms, and the neighbours, Agatha looked at Kate and said: "Katherine, what
is this I hear about Robert coming here every day, now?  It appeals to me that he must have
followed my advice."

"Of course he never would have thought of coming, if you hadn't told him so," said Kate dryly.

"Now THERE you are in error," said the literal Agatha, as she smoothed down Little Poll's skirts
and twisted her ringlets into formal corkscrews.  "Right THERE, you are in error, my dear.
The reason I told Robert to marry you was because he said to me, when he suggested going after
you to stay the night with me, that he had seen you in the field when he passed, and that you
were the most glorious specimen of womanhood that he ever had seen.  He said you were the one
to stay with me, in case there should be any trouble, because your head was always level, and
your heart was big as a barrel."

"Yes, that's the reason I can't always have it with me," said Kate, looking glorified instead
of glorious.  "Agatha, it just happens to mean very much to me.  Will you just kindly begin
at the beginning, and tell me every single word Robert said to you, and you said to him, that day?"

"Why, I have informed you explicitly," said Agatha, using her handkerchief on the toe of Poll's
blue shoe.  "He mentioned going after you, and said what I told you, and I told him to go.
He praised you so highly that when I spoke to him about the Southey woman I remembered it,
so I suggested to him, as he seemed to think so well of you.  It just that minute flashed into
my mind; but HE made me think of it, calling you 'glorious,' and 'level headed,' and 'big hearted.'
Heavens!  Katherine Eleanor, what more could you ask?"

"I guess that should be enough," said Kate.

"One certainly would presume so," said Agatha.

