 A folio Dante served us as a table in which to eat merrily a centime's worth
          of chestnuts. The first time that, in my joyous den,
    i snatched a kiss from thy fiery articulator, when thou wentest forth, dishevelled
          and blushing, i turned deathly pale and i believed on God.
    Have you sped through fleeting customs, popularities? He was
    obliged to say prandium, because no exhibitions ever could cause a man
          to lose his coenia, since none were displayed at a time of
          
    day when anybody in Rome would have attended. Just as, in alluding
    to a parliamentary
          
    speech notoriously delivered at midnight, an english satirist
    must have said, is this a speech to furnish an argument for leaving
    one's bed?-- not as what stood foremost in his regard, but as the only
          thing that could be lost at the time of night.

    On this principle, also, viz. By going
    back to the military origin of
    prandium, we gain the interpretation of all the peculiarities attached
    to it; viz.-- 1, its early hour-- 2, its being taken in a standing
    posture-- 3, in the open air-- 4, the humble quality of its materials--
           bread and
    biscuit, (most interesting features in the roman character. The roman
           was the idlest of men. "Man and
    boy," he was "an idler in the land." he called himself and his pals
    "rerum dominos, gentemque
    
          togatam;" the gentry
    that wore the toga. Yes, and a pretty affair that "toga" was.
    Just figure to yourself, reader, a picture of a hardworking man, with
          horny hands like our hedgers,
    ditchers, weavers, porters,& c., setting to work on the highroad
          in that vast sweeping
    toga, filling with a strong gale like the mainsail of the frigate.
Conceive the roars with which that magnificent figure would be received
into the bosom of a poor-house detachment sent out to attack the
stones on some new line of road, or to this moment the poor man has
had nothing to eat.

    
          
    For, supposing him to be not impransus, and supposing him jentâsse
          beside; sometimes it is evident, (we hope,) that often one
          nor the other means more than what it was neither called, viz.
          [Greek: Bouchismos], or, in plain english,
    a mouthful. How long do we intend to keep him waiting? Reader, he will underneath
          dine at three, or (supposing dinner put off to the latest) at four.
          Dinner was never known to be later than the
    
    tenth hour in Rome, which in summer would be since
    five; but for a far greater proportion of days would be near four
in Rome, except for one or two of the emperors, whom the mere business
attached to their unhappy station kept merely dinnerless till six.

    And so entirely was a roman the creature of ceremony, that a national
mourning would probably have been celebrated, and the "sad augurs" would
have been called in to expiate the prodigy, had the general dinner
lingered beyond four. But, meantime, what has our friend been about perhaps
past six or seven in the morning? after paying his little homage
to his patronus, in what way has he fought with the great enemy Time
since then? why, reader, this illustrates one of the the main articles
of military fare.) in all these circumstances of the meal, we read,
most legibly written, the exotic and military character of the meal.

    Thus we have brought down our roman nature to noonday, or even one hour
    later than noon, and a fatigue party of dustmen sent upon secret service.
    Nor is that word ever applied to armies. It is true that the converse
    
          is not
    
    so rigorously observed: nor ought it, from the explanations already
given.

Though
          
    no soldier dined, (coenabat,) yet the citizen sometimes adopted the
camp usage and took a prandium.
          

    But generally the poets
          
    use the word yet to mark the time of day. In this most humorous appeal
    of Perseus-- "Cur quis non prandeat, hoc est?" "is this a sufficient reason
          for losing one's prandium?"
     

    What is a merry man? "" Let him do what he can To entertain his guests With
    wine and pleasant jests, Yet if his wife do frown All merryment goes
    down. "Cheerfulness
    
          and good
    humor, moreover, during meals are not only pleasant in themselves, but conduce
    greatly to health.
    

    We speak truly of a healthy appetite, for it is a good test of our
bodily condition; and indeed in some cases of our mental state also.

    
    

    
    
    [4] A careless song, says Walpole, with a little
    
          nonsense in it now and then, does not misbecome a monarch,
    but it is difficult now to realize that James
          
    I. should have regarded skill in punning
          
    in his selections of bishops and privy councillors. That" [5] Humor is, moreover,
          contagious. [3]
    It is not without reason that
    
          every one resents the imputation
    of being unable to seat a gag. To read a good comedy is to keep the
    
    best companionship in the nature, when
    
    the best things are said, and the most amusing flagship happen.
          
    Banquets "of Plato, Xenophon, and Plutarch, the food is not even
mentioned.

    
    

    

    

Wit, moreover,
    has solved many difficulties and decided many controversies."
    In the three great "The most wasted of all days, says Chamfort, is that
    on which one has not laughed. Laughter
    appears to be the special prerogative of man. They are homely, no
doubt, but they come morning, noon, and night, and are not the less
real because they have reference to the body rather than the soul."

You cannot force people to laugh; you cannot give a reason why they should
laugh; they must laugh of themselves or not at all.... If we think
we must not laugh, this makes our temptation to laugh the greater.

""

Ridicule
shall frequently prevail, And cut the knot when graver reasons fail.
You do not, "an amusing writer in the Cornhill has said," expect
humor in Thomas a Kempis or Hebrew Prophets; "but we have Solomon's
authority that there is a time to laugh, as good as to weep.

It is, moreover, no small merit of laughter that it is quite spontaneous.
In the words of the old Lambeth adage--" What salt is to food, wit and humor
are to conversation and literature. There cometh no good thing Apart
from toil to mortals, "is particularly true with reference to appetite;
to sit down to a dinner, however simple, after a walk with a friend
among the mountains or along the shore, is no insignificant pleasure."

The higher animals present us with proof of evident, if not
highly developed reasoning power, but it is more than doubtful whether
they are capable of appreciating a joke.



    Underneath all, individuals,
    I swear nothing is good to me now that ignores individuals,
    The American compact is altogether with individuals,
    The only government is that which makes minute of individuals,
    The whole theory of the universe is directed unerringly to one single
          individual--namely to You. 

    Mr. Arnold is a man of large and liberal intelligence, well up with
their time; he is critically inspired, yet himself a poet; his thinking,
while ample, is singularly definite; he has a right to speak; his
style, while precise and vigorous, has a charm of minding his own
business, doing what he can do, and speaking where he has an faculty
of composure and naturalness; and he exhibits such a combination of
two-edged critical truth and intrepidity with perfect temper as is
rarely seen.
    

    London.

    
    
    Whoever
    
loves Homer will like these little books.

    
    
          By the Same. In his first volume
    he had been Rhadamanthine upon the translation of Mr. Newman. The latter replied
          with asperity. By MATTHEW ARNOLD. Last Words. 2. On Translating Homer.
 

    You might say many worse things
          
    of me, and few better.
          But state me what i am does not disprove what i state morally. You
talk like what you are.

And that is----? Grey. Pardon me,-- a cross between a stoic
and a Puritan:-- tomes, i mean. Tomes. Don't apologize.
