B.C. 379. Agesilaus had already exceeded the time during which the supplies of food in Phlius
were expected to last. The difference, in fact, between self-command and mere appetite is so
great that the men of Phlius had only to pass a resolution to cut down the food expenditure
by one half, and by doing so were able to prolong the siege for twice the calculated period.
But if the contrast between self-restraint and appetite is so great, no less startling is that
between boldness and faint-heartedness. A Phliasian named Delphion, a real hero, it would seem,
took to himself three hundred Phliasians, and not only succeeded in preventing the peace-party
from carrying out their wishes, but was equal to the task of incarcerating and keeping safely
under lock and key those whom he mistrusted. Nor did his ability end there. He succeeded in
forcing the mob of citizens to perform garrison duty, and by vigorous patrolling kept them
constant to the work. Over and over again, accompanied by his personal attendants, he would
dash out of the walls and drive in the enemy's outposts, first at one point and then at another
of the beleaguering circle. But the time eventually came when, search as they might by every
means, these picked defenders (13) could find no further store of food within the walls, and
they were forced to send to Agesilaus, requesting a truce for an embassy to visit Sparta, adding
that they were resolved to leave it to the discretion of the authorities at Lacedaemon to do
with their city what they liked. Agesilaus granted a pass to the embassy, but, at the same
time, he was so angry at their setting his personal authority aside, that he sent to his friends
at home and arranged that the fate of Phlius should be left to his discretion. Meanwhile he
proceeded to tighten the cordon of investment, so as to render it impossible that a single
soul inside the city should escape. In spite of this, however, Delphion, with one comrade,
a branded dare-devil, who had shown great dexterity in relieving the besieging parties of their
arms, escaped by night. Presently the deputation returned with the answer from Lacedaemon that
the state simply left it entirely to the discretion of Agesilaus to decide the fate of Phlius
as seemed to him best. Then Agesilaus announced his verdict. A board of one hundred--fifty
taken from the restored exiles, fifty from those within the city--were in the first place to
make inquisition as to who deserved to live and who to die, after which they were to lay down
laws as the basis of a new constitution. Pending the carrying out of these transactions, he
left a detachment of troops to garrison the place for six months, with pay for that period.
After this he dismissed the allied forces, and led the state (14) division home. Thus the transactions
concerning Phlius were brought to a conclusion, having occupied altogether one year and eight
months.

 (13) See below, "Hell." VII. i. 19.

 (14) {to politokon}, the citizen army. See above, IV. iv. 19; "Pol.
    Lac." xi.

Meanwhile Polybiades had reduced the citizens of Olynthus to the last stage of misery through
famine. Unable to supply themselves with corn from their own land, or to import it by sea,
they were forced to send an embassy to Lacedaemon to sue for peace. The plenipotentiaries on
their arrival accepted articles of agreement by which they bound themselves to have the same
friends and the same foes as Lacedaemon, to follow her lead, and to be enrolled among her allies;
and so, having taken an oath to abide by these terms, they returned home.

On every side the affairs of Lacedaemon had signally prospered: Thebes and the rest of the
Boeotian states lay absolutely at her feet; Corinth had become her most faithful ally; Argos,
unable longer to avail herself of the subterfuge of a movable calendar, was humbled to the
dust; Athens was isolated; and, lastly, those of her own allies who displayed a hostile feeling
towards her had been punished; so that, to all outward appearance, the foundations of her empire
were at length absolutely well and firmly laid.

IV

Abundant examples might be found, alike in Hellenic and in foreign history, to prove that the
Divine powers mark what is done amiss, winking neither at impiety nor at the commission of
unhallowed acts; but at present I confine myself to the facts before me. (1) The Lacedaemonians,
who had pledged themselves by oath to leave the states independent, had laid violent hands
on the acropolis of Thebes, and were eventually punished by the victims of that iniquity single-handed--the
Lacedaemonians, be it noted, who had never before been mastered by living man; and not they
alone, but those citizens of Thebes who introduced them to their acropolis, and who wished
to enslave their city to Lacedaemon, that they might play the tyrant themselves--how fared
it with them? A bare score of the fugitives were sufficient to destroy their government. How
this happened I will now narrate in detail.

 (1) Or, "it is of my own subject that I must now speak." For the
    "peripety," or sudden reversal of circumstances, on which the plot
    of the "Hellenica" hinges, see Grote, "H. G." x. 100-108. Cf.
    Soph. "Oed. Tyr." 450; "Antig." 1066; Thuc. v. 116; "Hellenica
    Essays," "Xenophon," p. 382 foll. This passage is perhaps the key
    to the historian's position.

There was a man named Phyllidas--he was secretary to Archias, that is, to the polemarchs. (2)
Beyond his official duties, he had rendered his chief other services, and all apparently in
an exemplary fashion. A visit to Athens in pursuance of some business brought this man into
contact with a former acquaintance of his, Melon, one of the exiles who had fled for safety
to Athens. Melon had various questions to ask touching the sort of tyranny practised by Archias
in the exercise of the polemarchy, and by Philip. He soon discovered that affairs at home were
still more detestable to Phyllidas than to himself. It only remained to exchange pledges, and
to arrange the details of what was to be done. After a certain interval Melon, accompanied
by six of the trustiest comrades he could find among his fellow-exiles, set off for Thebes.
They were armed with nothing but daggers, and first of all crept into the neighbourhood under
cover of night. The whole of the next day they lay concealed in a desert place, and drew near
to the city gates in the guise of labourers returning home with the latest comers from the
fields. Having got safely within the city, they spent the whole of that night at the house
of a man named Charon, and again the next day in the same fashion. Phyllidas meanwhile was
busily taken up with the concerns of the polemarchs, who were to celebrate a feast of Aphrodite
on going out of office. Amongst other things, the secretary was to take this opportunity of
fulfilling an old undertaking, which was the introduction of certain women to the polemarchs.
They were to be the most majestic and the most beautiful to be found in Thebes. The polemarchs,
on their side (and the character of the men is sufficiently marked), were looking forward to
the pleasures of the night with joyful anticipation. Supper was over, and thanks to the zeal
with which the master of the ceremonies responded to their mood, they were speedily intoxicated.
To their oft-repeated orders to introduce their mistresses, he went out and fetched Melon and
the rest, three of them dressed up as ladies and the rest as their attendant maidens. Having
brought them into the treasury of the polemarchs' residence, (3) he returned himself and announced
to Archias and his friends that the women would not present themselves as long as any of the
attendants remained in the room; whereupon they promptly bade all withdraw, and Phyllidas,
furnishing the servants with a stoup of wine, sent them off to the house of one of them. And
now at last he introduced the mistresses, and led them to their seats beside their respective
lords. It was preconcerted that as soon as they were seated they were to throw aside their
veils and strike home. That is one version of the death of the polemarchs. (4) According to
another, Melon and his friends came in as revellers, and so despatched their victims.

 (2) Lit. "to Archias and his (polemarchs)"; but the Greek phrase does
    not, as the English would, imply that there were actually more
    than two polemarchs, viz. Archias and Philippus. Hypates and
    Leontiades belonged to the faction, but were neither of them
    polemarchs.

 (3) Lit. "Polemarcheion."

 (4) Or, "and so, according to the prevalent version of the matter, the
    polemarchs were slain. But some say that..."

That over, Phyllidas, with three of the band, set off to the house of Leontiades. Arrived there,
he knocked on the door, and sent in word that he had a message from the polemarchs. Leontiades,
as chance befell, was still reclining in privacy after dinner, and his wife was seated beside
him working wools. The fidelity of Phyllidas was well known to him, and he gave orders to admit
him at once. They entered, slew Leontiades, and with threats silenced his wife. As they went
out they ordered the door to be shut, threatening that if they found it open they would kill
every one in the house. And now that this deed was done, Phyllidas, with two of the band, presented
himself at the prison, telling the gaoler he had brought a man from the polemarchs to be locked
up. The gaoler opened the door, and was at once despatched, and the prisoners were released.
These they speedily supplied with arms taken from the armoury in the stoa, and then led them
to the Ampheion, (5) and bade them take up a position there, after which they at once made
a proclamation calling on all Thebans to come out, horse and foot, seeing that the tyrants
were dead. The citizens, indeed, as long as it was night, not knowing whom or what to trust,
kept quiet, but when day dawned and revealed what had occurred, the summons was responded to
with alacrity, heavy infantry and cavalry under arms alike sallying forth. Horsemen were also
despatched by the now restored exiles to the two Athenian generals on the frontier; and they,
being aware of the object of the message (promptly responded). (6)

 (5) See plan of Thebes, "Dict. Geog."; Arrian, "Anab." i. 8; Aesch.
    "Sept. c. Theb." 528.

 (6) Supply {epeboethoun}. There is a lacuna in the MSS. at this point.

On the other hand, the Lacedaemonian governor in the citadel, as soon as that night's proclamation
reached his ears, was not slow to send to Plataeae (7) and Thespiae for reinforcements. The body
is the outward vehicle and expression of the soul and spirit through which we are enabled to serve
God. The order of these three should be observed. It is not, as we often say, and sing in certain
hymns, "body, soul, and spirit," but the very reverse--"spirit, soul, and body." The Apostle
starts from within and works outward, thereby reminding us that if the spirit or deepest part
of our nature is wholly surrendered to God, this fact will express itself in every part of our
nature, and we shall be consecrated wholly. What a searching requirement this is, and what a
solemnity and responsibility it gives to life! Whether in relation to God, or in relation
to man, whether for worship or work, character or conduct, prayer or practice, we are to be
wholly consecrated, and continually kept for the Master's use--

"That all my powers with all their might, In Thy sole glory may unite."

2. THE PRE-REQUISITE.

 
    "The God of Peace Himself." The Divine title associated with this prayer
    as its definite presupposition and pre-requisite is very significant,
    as, indeed, is every title of God. There is always some special point
    of direct connection between the way in which God is addressed and
the prayer that follows.

In the present instance the prayer for consecration and preservation is addressed to "The God
of Peace Himself."
The Apostle lays special stress upon the fact that it is God "Himself"
Who consecrates and keeps us. As with salvation, so with consecration--it
is and must be Divine. The work is entirely beyond any mere human
power, and while there is a truth in our frequent reference to consecration
as something that we ourselves have to effect, it is far more scriptural,
and, therefore, much more helpful, to endeavour to limit the idea
of consecration to the Divine side, and to think of it as an act of
God, to which the corresponding human act and attitude is that of
dedication. Agesilaus had little taste to head the
expedition; he pointed out that he had seen more than forty years' service, (8) and that the
exemption from foreign duty applicable to others at that age was applicable on the same principle
to the king. Such were the ostensible grounds on which he excused himself from the present
expedition, but his real objections lay deeper. He felt certain that if he led the expedition
his fellow-citizens would say: "Agesilaus caused all this trouble to the state in order to
aid and abet tyrants." Therefore he preferred to leave his countrymen to settle the matter
themselves as they liked. Accordingly the ephors, instructed by the Theban exiles who had escaped
the late massacres, despatched Cleombrotus. He had not commanded before, and it was the depth
of winter.

 (8) And was therefore more than fifty-eight years old at this date.
    See "Ages." i. 6.

Now while Chabrias, with a body of Athenian peltasts, kept watch and ward over the road through
Eleutherae, Cleombrotus made his way up by the direct route to Plataeae. His column of light
infantry, pushing forward in advance, fell upon the men who had been released from the Theban
prison, guarding the summit, to the number of about one hundred and fifty. These, with the
exception of one or two who escaped, were cut down by the peltasts, and Cleombrotus descended
in person upon Plataeae, which was still friendly to Sparta. Presently he reached Thespiae,
and that was the base for an advance upon Cynoscephalae, where he encamped on Theban territory.
Here he halted sixteen days, and then again fell back upon Thespiae. At this latter place he
now left Sphodrias as governor, with a third portion of each of the contingents of the allies,
handing over to him all the moneys he had brought with him from home, with directions to supplement
his force with a contingent of mercenaries.

While Sphodrias was so employed, Cleombrotus himself commenced his homeward march, following
the road through Creusis at the head of his own moiety of the troops, who indeed were in considerable
perplexity to discover whether they were at war with the Thebans or at peace, seeing that the
general had led his army into Theban territory, had inflicted the minimum of mischief, and
again retired. No sooner, however, was his back turned than a violent wind storm assailed him
in his rear, which some construed as an omen clearly significant of what was about to take
place. Many a blow this assailant dealt them, and as the general and his army, crossing from
Creusis, scaled that face of the mountain (9) which stretches seaward, the blast hurled headlong
from the precipices a string of asses, baggage and all: countless arms were wrested from the
bearers' grasp and whirled into the sea; finally, numbers of the men, unable to march with
their arms, deposited them at different points of the pass, first filling the hollow of their
shields with stones. For the moment, then, they halted at Aegosthena, on Megarian soil, and
supped as best they could. Next day they returned and recovered their arms. After this adventure
the contingents lost no time in returning to their several homes, as Cleombrotus disbanded them.

 (9) I.e. "Cithaeron."

Meanwhile at Athens and Thebes alike fear reigned. To the Athenians the strength of the Lacedaemonians
was unmistakable: the war was plainly no longer confined to Corinth; on the contrary, the Lacedaemonians
had ventured to skirt Athenian territory and to invade Thebes. They were so worked upon by
their alarm that the two generals who had been privy to the insurrection of Melon against Leontiades
and his party had to suffer: the one was formally tried and put to death; the other, refusing
to abide his trial, was banished.

The apprehensions of the Thebans were of a different sort: their fear was rather lest they
should find themselves in single-handed war with Lacedaemon. To prevent this they hit upon
the following expedient. They worked upon Sphodrias, (10) the Spartan governor left in Thespiae,
by offering him, as at least was suspected, a substantial sum, in return for which he was to
make an incursion into Attica; their great object being to involve Athens and Lacedaemon in
hostilities. Sphodrias lent a willing ear, and, pretending that he could easily capture Piraeus
in its present gateless condition, gave his troops an early evening meal and marched out of
Thespiae, saying that he would reach Piraeus before daybreak. As a matter of fact day overtook
him at Thria, nor did he take any pains even to draw a veil over his intentions; on the contrary,
being forced to turn aside, he amused himself by recklessly lifting cattle and sacking houses.
Meanwhile some who chanced upon him in the night had fled to the city and brought news to the
men of Athens that a large body of troops was approaching. It needs no saying with what speed
the cavalry and heavy infantry armed themselves and stood on guard to protect the city. As
chance befell, there were some Lacedaemonian ambassadors in Athens at the moment, at the house
of Callias their proxenos; their names were Etymocles, Aristolochus, and Ocyllus. Immediately
on receipt of the news the Athenians seized these three and imprisoned them, as not improbably
concerned in the plot. Utterly taken aback by the affair themselves, the ambassadors pleaded
that, had they been aware of an attempt to seize Piraeus, they would hardly have been so foolish
as to put themselves into the power of the Athenians, or have selected the house of their proxenos
for protection, where they were so easily to be found. It would, they further urged, soon be
plain to the Athenians themselves that the state of Lacedaemon was quite as little cognisant
of these proceedings as they. "You will hear before long"--such was their confident prediction--"that
Sphodrias has paid for his behaviour by his life." On this wise the ambassadors were acquitted
of all concern in the matter and dismissed. Sphodrias himself was recalled and indicted by
the ephors on the capital charge, and, in spite of his refusal to face the trial, he was acquitted.
This miscarriage of justice, as it seemed to many, who described it as unprecedented in Lacedaemon,
has an explanation.

 (10) See Plut. "Pel." xiv. (Clough, ii. p. 214).

Sphodrias had a son named Cleonymus. He was just at the age when youth emerges from boyhood,
very handsome and of high repute among his fellows. To this youth Archidamus, the son of Agesilaus,
was passionately attached. Now the friends of Cleombrotus, as comrades of Sphodrias, were disposed
to acquit him; but they feared Agesilaus and his friends, not to mention the intermediate party,
for the enormity of his proceeding was clear. So when Sphodrias addressed his son Cleonymus:
"You have it in your power, my son, to save your father, if you will, by begging Archidamus
to dispose Agesilaus favourably to me at my trial." Thus instructed, the youth did not shrink
from visiting Archidamus, and implored him for his sake to save his father. Now when Archidamus
saw how Cleonymus wept, he too was melted to tears as he stood beside him, but to his petition
he made answer thus: "Nay, Cleonymus, it is the bare truth I tell you, I cannot so much as
look my father in the face; (11) if I wished anything transacted for me in the city I would
beg assistance from the whole world sooner than from my father. Still, since it is you who
bid me, rest assured I will do my best to bring this about for you as you desire." He then
left the common hall (12) and retired home to rest, but with dawn he arose and kept watch that
his father might not go out without his knowledge. Presently, when he saw him ready to go forth,
first some citizen was present, and then another and another; and in each case he stepped aside,
while they held his father in conversation. By and by a stranger would come, and then another;
and so it went on until he even found himself making way for a string of petitioning attendants.
At last, when his father had turned his back on the Eurotas, and was entering his house again,
he was fain to turn his back also and be gone without so much as accosting him. The next day
he fared no better: all happened as on the previous day. Now Agesilaus, although he had his
suspicions why his son went to and fro in this way, asked no questions, but left him to take
his own course. Archidamus, on his side, was longing, as was natural, to see his friend Cleonymus;
but how he was to visit him, without having held the desired conversation with his father,
he knew not. The friends of Sphodrias, observing that he who was once so frequent a visitor
had ceased coming, were in agony; he must surely have been deterred by the reproaches of his
father. At last, however, Archidamus dared to go to his father, and said, "Father, Cleonymus
bids me ask you to save his father; grant me this boon, if possible, I beg you." 14). "The God
of our Lord Jesus Christ" seems to suggest the highest point and peak of power and grace. God,
as the God of Christ, is the primary source of all blessing.

He is also "the Father of Glory." This, too, is a phrase not found elsewhere. He is the Father
to Whom all glory belongs as its Divine source. In Acts vii. 2 He is "the God of glory," and
in 1 Cor. ii. 8 Christ is "the Lord of glory." In Rom. vi. 4 Christ
is said to have been raised from the dead "by the glory of the Father."
 And the
father answered: "If it can be done without loss of honour on our parts, so shall it be." At
that word the young man, in deep despondency, turned and went. Now one of the friends of Sphodrias,
conversing with Etymocles, remarked to him: "You are all bent on putting Sphodrias to death,
I take it, you friends of Agesilaus?" And Etymocles replied: "If that be so, we all are bent
on one thing, and Agesilaus on another, since in all his conversations he still harps upon
one string: that Sphodrias has done a wrong there is no denying, yet Sphodrias is a man who,
from boyhood to ripe manhood, (13) was ever constant to the call of honour. To put such a man
as that to death is hard; nay, Sparta needs such soldiers." The other accordingly went off
and reported what he had just heard to Cleonymus; and he in the joy of his heart went straightway
to Archidamus and said: "Now we know that you care for us; rest assured, Archidamus, that we
in turn will take great pains that you shall never have cause to blush for our friendship."
Nor did his acts belie his words; but so long as he lived he was ever faithful to the code
of Spartan chivalry; and at Leuctra, fighting in front of the king side by side with Deinon
the polemarch, thrice fell or ever he yielded up his breath--foremost of the citizens amidst
the foe.