Do you think that a Christian, having even this cup in his hand to drink it, would change it
for a draught of that which is in the hand of the woman that sits on the back of the scarlet-coloured
beast? (Rev 17:3,4). No, verily, for he knows that her sweet is poison, and that his bitter
is to purge his soul, body, life, and religion, of death (2 Tim 2:11,12).

God sends his love tokens to his church two ways, sometimes by her friends, sometimes by her
enemies. When they come by the hand of a friend, as by a minister, a brother, or by the Holy
Ghost, then they come smoothly, sweetly, and are taken, and go down like honey. But when these
love tokens come to them by the hand of an enemy, then they are handed to them roughly; Pharaoh
handed love tokens to them roughly; the king of Babylon handed these love tokens to them roughly.
They bring them of malice, God sends them of love; they bring them and give them to us, hoping
they will be our death; they give us them therefore with many a foul curse, but God blesses
them still. Did not Haman lead Mordecai in his state by the hand of anger?

Nor is this cup so bitter but that our Lord himself drank deep of it before it was handed to
his church; he did as loving mothers do, drink thereof himself to show us it is not poison,
also to encourage us to drink it for his sake and for our endless health (Matt 20:22, 26:39,42).

And, as I told you before, I think I do not vary from the sense of the text in calling them
cups; because, though there they have no name, they are joined with king Solomon's drinking
vessels, and because as so joined in the type, so they are also joined here; therefore the
cup here is called Christ's cup. 'Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of?' 'Ye
shall drink indeed of my cup' (Matt 20:22,23). Here you see they are joined in a communion
in this cup of affliction, as the cups in one and the same breath are joined with those king
Solomon drank in, which he put in the house of the forest of Lebanon.

[Second. Such as are exceeding sweet.]

But these are not all the cups that belong to the house of the forest of Lebanon, or rather
to the church in the wilderness; there is also a cup, out of which, at times, is drunk what
is exceeding sweet. It is called the cup of consolation, the cup of salvation; a cup in the
which God himself is (Psa 116:13; Jer 16:7). As he said, the Lord is the portion of my cup.
Or rather, 'The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance, and my cup' (Psa 16:5). This cup,
they that are in the church in the wilderness have usually for an after-draught to that bitter
one that went before. Thus, as tender mothers give their children plumbs or sugar, to sweeten
their palate after they have drank a bitter potion, so God gives his the cups of salvation
and consolation, after they have suffered awhile. 'For as the sufferings of Christ abound in
us, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ' (2 Cor 1:5).

Hence the apostle assureth himself concerning the affliction of them at Corinth; yea, and also
promiseth them, that as they were partakers of the sufferings, so should they be of the consolation
(2 Cor 1:7). Some of these cups are filled until they run over, as David said his did, when
the valley of the shadow of death was before him. This is that which the apostle calls exceeding;
that is, that which is beyond measure. 'I am,' says he, 'filled with comfort, I am exceeding
joyful in all our tribulation' (2 Cor 7:4).

Now he has one answering the other. Thou hast made summer and winter. Thou hast made the warm
beams of thy sun answerable to the cold of the dark night. They have themselves an infinite value.
Nothing which goes on in them can be ignored.

Their most trifling sins, their feeblest stirrings towards virtue, are vital for the eternity of
their lot. All shall be attributed to them by the just Judge. The theft of an apple will weigh perhaps
as heavily in the scales as the seizure of a province or a kingdom.

The evil of sin is in the evil intention. Now the fate of a soul, created by God, on Him depends.
Hence everything in a human life assumes an extreme seriousness and importance. In the history
of a creature, all is worthy of being examined, weighed, studied, and perhaps also, for the edification
of others, told.

Here is an altogether new way of regarding life, and, proceeding from
that, of understanding art. Even as the slaves, thanks to Christianity,
came into the spiritual city, so the most minute realities by this
outlook are to be included in literature.

The Confessions will be the first model of the art of the new era. A deep and magnificent realism,
because it goes even to the very depths of the divine--utterly distinct,
at any rate, from our surface realism of mere amusement--is about
to arise from this new conception.

Without doubt, in Augustin's eyes, beauty dwells in all things, in
so far forth as beauty is a reflection of the order and the thought
of the Word.

But it has also a more essential character--it has a moral signification and value. Everything,
in a word, can be the instrument of the loss or the redemption of a soul. The most insignificant of
our actions reverberates to infinitude on our fate. Regarded from this
point, both things and beings commence to live a life more closely
leagued together and at the same time more private; more individual
and more general. All is in the lump, and nevertheless all is separate.

Our salvation concerns only ourselves, and yet through charity it becomes involved with the
salvation of our fellows.

In this spirit let us look at the cradle of Augustin. Let us look at it with the eyes of Augustin
himself, and also, perchance, of Monnica.

Bending over the frail body of the little child he once was, he puts
to himself all the great desperate questions which have shaken humanity
for thousands of years.

The mystery
of life and death rises before him, formidable. It tortures him to the point of anguish, of confusion:
"Yet suffer me to speak before Thy mercy, me who am but dust and
ashes.

Yea, suffer me to speak, for, behold, I speak not to man who scorns
me, but to Thy mercy.

Even Thou perhaps dost scorn me, but Thou wilt turn and have pity. For
what is it that I would say, O Lord my God, save that I know not whence
I came hither into this dying life, shall I call it, or living death?...
And, lo, my infancy has long been dead, and I live.

But Thou, O Lord, who ever livest and in whom nothing ever dies--tell me, I beseech Thee, O God, and
have mercy on my misery, tell me whether another life of mine died
before my infancy began."

One is reminded here of Pascal's famous prosopopoeia: "I know not who
has put me into the world, nor what the world is, nor myself.

I am in a terrible ignorance about everything.... All I know is that
I must soon die, but what I know least of all is this very death
which I cannot escape."

The phrases of the Pensees are only the echo of the phrases of the Confessions. But how different
is the tone! Pascal's charge against human ignorance is merciless. The God of Port-Royal has
the hard and motionless face of the ancient Destiny: He withdraws into the clouds, and only shews Himself
at the end to raise up His poor creature.

In Augustin the accent is tender, trusting, really like a son, and
though he be harassed, one can discern the thrill of an unconquerable
hope. Instead of crushing man under the iron hand of the Justice-dealer,
he makes him feel the kindness of the Father who has got all ready,
long before its birth, for the feeble little child: "The comforts
of Thy pity received me, as I have heard from the father and mother
of my flesh.... And so the comfort of woman's milk was ready for me.

For my mother and my nurses did not fill their own bosoms, but Thou, O Lord, by their means
gavest me the food of infancy, according to Thy ordinance...."

And see! his heart overflows at this remembrance of his mother's milk. The great doctor humbles his
style, makes it simple and familiar, to tell us of his first mewlings, and of his baby angers
and joys. He too was a father; he knew what is a new-born child,
and a young mother who gives it suck, because he had seen that with
his own eyes close beside him.

All the small bothers which mingle with the pleasures of fatherhood
he had experienced himself.

In his own son he studied himself.

* * * * *

This child, born of a Christian mother, and who was to become the
great defender of the faith, was not christened at his birth.

In the early Church, and especially in the African Church, it was not usual to do so. The baptismal
day was put as far off as possible, from the conviction that the
sins committed after the sacrament were much more serious than those
which went before.

The Africans, very practical folk, clearly foresaw that they would sin again even after baptism, but
they wanted to sin at a better rate, and lessen the inflictions of penance. This penance in Augustin's
time was far from being as hard as in the century before.

Nevertheless, the remembrance of the old severity always remained, and the habit was taken to put
off baptism so as not to discourage sinners overmuch.

Monnica, always sedulous to conform with the customs of her country
and the traditions of her Church, fell in with this practice.

Perhaps she may have had also the opposition of her husband to face,
for he being a pagan would not have cared to give too many pledges
to the Christians, nor to compromise himself in the eyes of his fellow-pagans
by shewing that he was so far under the control of Christian zealots
as to have his child baptized out of the ordinary way.

There was a middle course, and this was to inscribe the child among the catechumens. According to
the rite of the first admission to the lowest order of catechumens,
the sign of the cross was made on Augustin's forehead, and the symbolic
salt placed between his lips.

And so they did not baptize him. Possibly this affected his whole life.
He lacked the baptismal modesty.

Even when he was become a bishop, he never quite cast off the old man
that had splashed through all the pagan uncleannesses. Some of his
words are painfully broad for chaste ears. The influence of African conditions
does not altogether account for this. It is only too plain that the
son of Patricius had never known entire virginity of soul.

They named him Aurelius Augustinus. Was Aurelius his family name? We cannot tell. The Africans
always applied very fantastically the rules of Roman nomenclature. Anyhow, this name was common enough
in Africa. The Bishop of Carthage, primate of the province and a friend
of Augustin, was also called Aurelius. Pious commentators have sought
to find in this name an omen of Augustin's future renown as an orator.

They have remarked that the word aurum, gold, is contained in Aurelius--a
prophetic indication of the golden mouth of the great preacher of
Hippo.

Meanwhile, he was a baby like any other baby, who only knew, as he
tells us, how to take his mother's breast.

However, he speaks of nurses who suckled him; no doubt these were servants or slaves of the household.
They gave him their milk, like those Algerian women who, to-day, if their neighbour is called away,
take her child and feed it. Besides, with them children are weaned much later than with us. You can see
mothers sitting at their doors put down their work and call to a
child of two or three playing in the street for him to come and take
the breast.

Did Augustin remember these things? At least he recalled his nurses' games, and the efforts they
made to appease him, and the childish words they taught him to stammer. The first Latin words he
repeated, he picked up from his mother and the servants, who must also
have spoken Punic, the ordinary tongue of the populace and small trader
class.

He learned Punic without thinking about it, in playing with other children of Thagaste, just as the sons
of our colonists learn Arab in playing with little boys who wear chechias on their heads.

He is a Christian, a bishop, already a venerated Father, consulted by the whole Catholic world,
and he tells us all that. He tells it in a serious and contrite way, with a manifest anxiety to
attribute to God, as the sole cause, all the benefits which embellished his
childhood, as well as to deplore his faults and wretchedness, fatal
consequence of the original Fall.

And
still, we can make out clearly that these suave and far-off memories have
a charm for him which he cannot quite guard himself against. The attitude
of the author of the Confessions is ambiguous and a little constrained.

The father who has loved his child, who has joined in his games, struggles in him against the theologian
who later on was to uphold the doctrine of Grace against the heretics. He feels that he must shew, not
only that Grace is necessary for salvation and that little children ought to be baptized, but that
they are capable of sinning.

Yes, the children sin even at nurse. And Augustin relates this story of a baby that he had seen:
"I know, because I have seen, jealousy in a babe. It could not speak, yet it eyed its foster-brother
with pale cheeks and looks of hate."

Children are already men. The egoism and greediness of the grown man may be already descried in
the newly born.

However, the theologian of Grace was not able to drive from his mind this
verse of the Gospel: Sinite ad me parvulos venire--"Suffer little children
to come unto Me." But he interprets this in a very narrow sense,
luring it into an argument which furthers his case. For him, the small
height of children is a symbol of the humility without which no one
can enter God's kingdom.

The Master, according to him, never intended us to take children as an example.
They are but flesh of sin.

He only drew from their littleness one of those similitudes which He, with
His fondness for symbols, favoured.

Well, let us dare to say it: Augustin goes wrong here. Such is the
penalty of human thought, which in its justest statements always wounds
some truth less clear or mutilates some tender sentiment. Radically,
Augustin is right. The child is wicked as man is.

We know it. But against the relentlessness of the theologian we
place the divine gentleness of Christ: "Suffer little children to come
unto Me, for of such is the Kingdom of God."

IV

THE FIRST GAMES

"I loved to play," Augustin says, in telling us of those far-off years.

Is
it surprising if this quick and supple intelligence, who mastered without
effort, and as if by instinct, the encyclopaedic knowledge of his
age, who found himself at his ease amidst the deepest abstractions,
did, at the beginning, take life as a game?

The amusements of the little Africans of to-day are not very many,
nor very various either.

They have no inventive imagination. In this matter their French playfellows
have taught them a good deal. If they play marbles, or hopscotch, or rounders,
it is in imitation of the Roumis.

And yet they are great little players. Games of chance attract them above all. At these they spend hour after
hour, stretched out flat on their stomachs in some shady corner, and they play with an astonishing
intensity of passion. All their attention is absorbed in what they are about; they employ on the
game all the cunning of their wits, precociously developed, and so soon
stuck fast in material things.

When Augustin recalls the games of his childhood, he only mentions
"nuts," handball, and birds.

To capture a bird, that winged, light, and brilliant thing, is what
all children long to do in every country on earth. But in Africa, where
there are plenty of birds, big people as well as little love them.

In the Moorish cafes, in the wretchedest gourbis, cages made of reeds are hung
on the walls, all rustling with trills and fluttering of wings. Quail,
thrushes, nightingales are imprisoned in them. The nightingale, the
singing-bird beyond all others, so difficult to tame, is the honoured
guest, the privileged dweller in these rustic cages.

With the rose, he is an essential part of Arab poetry.

The woods round about Thagaste were full of nightingales. Not the
least doubt that the child Augustin had felt the little musical throats
of these singing-birds throb between his hands.

His sermons, his heaviest treatises, have a recollection of them. He
draws from them an evidence in favour of the creating Word who has
put beauty and harmony everywhere.

In the song of the nightingale he finds, as it were, an echo of the
music of the spheres.

If he loved birds, as a poet who knows not that he is a poet, did he love
as well to play at "nuts"? "Nuts," or thimble-rigging, is only a graceful
and crafty game, too crafty for a dreaming and careless little boy.
It calls for watchfulness and presence of mind.

Grown men play at it as well as children. A step of a staircase is used as a table by the players,
or the pavement of a courtyard. Three shells are laid on the stone and a dried pea.
Then, with rapid baffling movements, hands brown and alert fly from
one shell to another, shuffle them, mix them up, juggle the dried
pea sometimes under this shell, sometimes under that,--and the point
is to guess which shell the pea has got under.

By means of certain astute methods, an artful player can make the pea
stick to his fingers, or to the inside of the shell, and the opponent
loses every time.

They cheat with a calm shamelessness.

Augustin cheated too--which did not prevent him from bitterly denouncing
the cheating of his fellow-players.

The truth is, that he would not have quite belonged to his country
if he had not lied and stolen now and then.

He lied to his tutor and to his schoolmasters. He stole at his parents' table, in the kitchen, and in
the cellar. But he stole like a man of quality, to make presents and
to win over his playfellows: he ruled the other boys by his presents--a
noteworthy characteristic in this future ruler of souls.

Morals like these, a little rough, shape free and bold natures. Those
African children were much less coddled, much less scolded, than
to-day.

Monnica had something else to do than to look after the boys. So for them it was a continual life in
the open air, which makes the body strong and hard.

Augustin and his companions should be pictured as young wild-cats.

This
roughness came out strong at games of ball, and generally at all
the games in which there are two sides, conquerors and prisoners, or
fights with sticks and stones.

Stone-throwing is an incurable habit among the little Africans. Even now in the towns our police are obliged
to take measures against these ferocious children. In Augustin's time, at Cherchell, which is
the ancient Caesarea Mauretaniae, the childish population was split into two hostile camps which
stoned each other. On certain holidays the fathers and big brothers joined the children; blood flowed,
and there were deaths.

The bishop Augustin recalls with severity the "superb victories" he won in jousts of this kind. But
I find it hard to believe that such a delicate child (he was sickly almost all
his life) could have got much pleasure out of these brutal sports.
If he was drawn into them by the example of others, it must have
been through the imagination they appealed to him.

In these battles, wherein sides took the field as Romans against
Carthaginians, Greeks against Trojans, he believed himself Scipio
or Hannibal, Achilles or Hector.

He experienced
beforehand, as a rhetorician, the intoxication of a triumph which
playfellows who were stronger and better provided with muscles gave
him a hard fight for. It is true some are appointed to death
to show to the world the strength of grace, not that he can help nobody to that strength but
they. The most feeble of his flock, when Christ shall stand by and strengthen them, are able
to do and bear what the strong have underwent. For so he saith.

And 'the other pillars and the thick beams were' according to them; nay, 'before them.' Indeed,
they that are left seem weak and feeble if compared to them that have already been tried with
fire and sword and all the tortures of men. But that grace by which they were helped that have
done such mighty acts already, can help those who seem more weak yet to go beyond them. God
strengtheneth 'the spoiled against the strong, so that the spoiled shall come against the fortress'
(Amos 5:9). Or, as another scripture has it, 'The lame take the prey' (Isa 33:23). So that
you see here is all substance. All here are pillars and thick beams, both in the house and
in the porch.

The conclusion therefore is:--The true members of the church in the wilderness are strong,
mighty, being made able by the grace of God for their standing, and being also coupled and
compacted together with the biggest bands or thickest beams that the Holy Ghost puts forth
to bind and hold this church together. And there is reason for it. The church is God's tower
or battery by which he beateth down Antichrist, or if you will have it in the words of the
prophet, 'Thou art my battle-axe and weapons of war; for with thee [saith God] will I break
in pieces,' &c. (Jer 51:19,20). Wherefore, since the church is set for defence of religion,
and to be as a battery to beat down Antichrist, it is requisite that she should be made up
of pillars of strong and staunch materials.[20]

The largeness of the porch was commodious; it was the next shelter, or the place whereunto
they of the house of the forest of Lebanon, when pursued, might resort or retreat with the
less difficulty. Thus the church in the wilderness has her porch, her place, her bosom, whereunto
her discouraged may continually resort, and take up and be refreshed. As Abiathar thrust in
to David and his men in the wilderness, in the day when Saul had slain his father, and of his
brethren, even 'four-score and five persons that did wear a linen ephod' (1 Sam 22:17-23).

When the apostles were persecuted 'they went to their own company,' because the Lord was there
(Acts 4:23). There we find the pillars, and have both solace and example. There, as Pomponius
said of his person, stands Christ Jesus in the front as Captain of the Lord's host, and round
about him the old fathers, prophets, apostles, and martyrs. This porch, therefore, I take to
be a figure of those cordial and large affections which the church in the wilderness has to
all, and for all them that love the truth, and that suffer and are afflicted for the sincere
profession thereof. 

"The high esteem in which the Israelite holds every human being who is distinguished by moral and mental
qualities, is clearly stated in Maimonides, 'Hálákhot Shemita Weyóbel,' ch. xiii., sec. 13, and
of this the most striking confirmation is found in the words of our Talmud ('Baba
Kama,' xxxviii. p. 1), where we are told that a Gentile who applies
himself to the study of the sacred law is to be held in equal esteem
with the High Priest, which is likewise declared in the book 'Tana debé
Eliyahoo,' in the beginning of the ninth chapter.

"I had another most gratifying instance of the sound and clear perceptions
which they have of the pure doctrines of our religion and the traditional
commentary to the sacred Scripture, in the sublime elucidation which
they gave to that most important point in our creed which refers to
the Messiah.

"'We are praying for a time,' said they, 'when the ideas of mankind at large
are to be noble and sublime; for a time when, as the prophet describes,
Gentiles will come to the light of Zion and kings to the brightness
of her rising (Isaiah lx., v. 3); when nations will fear the name
of the Lord, and all the kings of the earth His glory (Psalms ch.
cii., v. 10; Daniel ch. vii., v. 27).

"Our sentiments are more distinctly stated by the immortal Maimonides in the
following words ('Hálákhot Melakhim,' ch. xii, secs. 4, 5): 'The wise men and
the prophets did not desire the advent of the Messiah, that they
might attain the power of any terrestrial government, that they should
be elevated in worldly rank by the nations, or enjoy every terrestrial
comfort.

No! this was not the object of their fervent prayer; their object was, in that glorious period,
to be enabled to devote themselves wholly and in perfect freedom to the study of the holy law and its
sacred literature, through which they might, at the end of their worldly career, attain the
bliss of immortality. That period is expected to be full of peace;
no war, no disturbance, no hatred; no jealousy between men will then
exist; happiness will be the lot of every creature, and the whole
world will only be anxious to acquire the knowledge of the law.

Then will Israel be enlightened by the Word of God, for the world is to be filled with the
knowledge of the Lord, even as the waters cover the sea.'

"A most remarkable feature in the purity of that particular article of
our creed is, that whilst the prayer for the Messiah regards the welfare
of the whole human race, it also strongly inculcates a sentiment that
no kind of coercive measures ought to be used by any person for the
purpose of hastening the advent of that blissful period.

Our Talmud declares that the Omnipotent enjoined the Israelites not to press events to bring on that
promised season of peace, nor ever to oppose the nations ('Tract Ketubot," 1. cx. p. 1).

"Having made these preliminary remarks, I shall now proceed to describe
to your Excellency the state of the schools which I visited in the
course of my journey through Russia and Poland.

"Being anxious to convince myself of the real condition of my brethren,
I often took them by surprise, and I am happy to say, although they
had not teachers of profane sciences, still most of the pupils in
some schools knew how to write and to read in the Russian, Hebrew,
and German languages.

In Wilna I found the schools organised agreeably to the command of His Imperial Majesty's Government;
they were well provided with competent masters, and the pupils answered
most satisfactorily questions in the various branches of tuition--in
Latin, Russian, and German grammars, geography, arithmetic, and history.
 'Sing, O ye heavens; for the Lord hath done it [that is, redeemed his servant Jacob from
his sins and from the hand of the enemy]: shout, ye lower parts of the earth [or church once
trampled under feet]: break forth into singing, ye mountains, O forest, and every tree therein
[here is comfort for the church under the name of a forest, that in which the house we have
been speaking of was built]: for the Lord hath redeemed Jacob, and glorified himself in Israel'
(Isa 44:23). To what, I say, can this text more fitly be applied, than to the church in the
wilderness, put here under the name of a forest as well as under the title of heaven? Yea,
methinks it is cried here to her, 'O forest,' on purpose to intimate to us that the house in
the forest of Lebanon was the figure of the church in this condition.

2. The meek also shall increase their joy in the Lord, and the poor among men shall rejoice
in the holy One of Israel. For the terrible one is brought to nought, and the scorner is consumed,
and all that watch for iniquity are cut off' (Isa 29:17-20). Lebanon was a forest, but now
she must be a fruitful field. What means he here by Lebanon but the church under persecution,
and the fruitful field? Mistress Babylon shall become as a forest, that is, as the church under
distress. But when shall this be? Why, when the terrible one is brought low and the scorner
is consumed, &c.

What can be more plain than this to prove that Lebanon, even the house in the forest of Lebanon,
for that is here intended, was a figure of the church in the wilderness, or in a tempted and
persecuted state. For to be turned into a fruitful field signifies the recovering of the afflicted
church into a state most quiet and fruitful; fruitful fields are quiet because they are fenced,
and so shall the church be in that day.

3. 'The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice,
and blossom as the rose' (Isa 35:1).

What are we to understand by these words if they be not a prophecy of the flourishing state
of Christ's kingdom, who, in the days of her persecution, is compared to a wilderness, to a
desert, and to solitary places. And she 'shall be glad for them'; for what? for that she is
rid of the dragons, wild beasts, satyrs, screech owls, great owl, and vulture, types of the
beasts and unclean birds of Antichrist (Isa 34:13-15).

She shall be glad for them that they are taken away from her and placed far away, for then
no lion shall be there nor any ravenous beast; yea, it is the habitation of dragons, where
each lay, shall be grass, with reeds and rushes, as it is, Isaiah 35. And now 'the lame man
shall leap as a hart, and the tongue of the dumb sing; for in the wilderness shall waters break
out, and streams in the desert.' Read the whole chapter.

For that the desert and wilderness is thus mentioned, and that to express the state of the
church in trouble by, it is clear that Lebanon is not excluded, nor the thing that is signified
thereby, which, I say, is the church in her low estate, in her forest, or wilderness condition.

4.

Can any think that trees are the things taken care of here? They are the men that Antichrist
has murdered in his heat and rage against Christ, the which God will restore again to his church,
when Antichrist is dead and buried in the sides of the pit's mouth. And that you may the better
understand he meaneth so, he expresseth again the state of the church as like to a wilderness
condition, and promiseth that in that very church, now so like a wilderness, to plant it again
with Christians, flourishing with variety of gifts and graces, signified by the various nature
and name of the trees spoken of here.

5. 'Behold, I will do a new thing; now it shall spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will
even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert. Here God alludes to the condition
of the children of Israel in the wilderness of old, and implies they shall be in a wilderness
again; and as then he gave them water, and delivered them from serpents, cockatrices, vipers,
dragons, so he will do now, now to his people, his chosen.

6.

See here are Zion's waste places, Zion's wilderness, forest, or Lebanon. Next here is a promise
that he will comfort her; and what doth this suppose but that she was in her wilderness state,
uncomfortable at least as to her outward peace, her liberty, and gospel privileges and beauties?
Then here is the comparison, by which he illustrates his promise as to what degree and pitch
he will comfort her. 'He will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden
of the Lord.' The effects of all which will be she will have joy and gladness; she will be
thankful, and be melodious in her voice, in her soul to the Lord. This, I say, will follow
upon her deliverance from her desert, her wilderness, her desolate, and comfortless state:
all which is more fully expressed by her repeated hallelujahs (Rev 19:1-6). Which hallelujahs
there are the effect of her deliverance from the rage of the beast and great whore, of whose
greatness and ruin you read in the two foregoing chapters. Now, I say, since the church was
to be in a wilderness condition under the gospel; and since we have this house of the forest
of Lebanon so particularly set forth in the Scriptures; and also since this house, its furniture,
its troubles, and state, do so paint out this church in this wilderness state, I take it to
be for that very thing designed, that is to say, to prefigure this church in this her so solitary
and wilderness state.

[CONCLUSION.]

We will now therefore here make a brief conclusion of all.

First. This may inform us of the reason of the deplorable state of a professing people. It
is allotted to them in this world to be so. The world, and men of the world, must have their
tranquility here, and must be possest of all; this was foreshown in Esau, who had of his sons
many that were dukes and kings before there was any king in Israel (Gen 36:31). God so disposing
of things that all may give place when his Son shall come to reign in Mount Zion, and before
his ancients gloriously, which coming of his will be at the resurrection, and end of this world,
and then shall his saints reign with him; 'when Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then
shall ye also appear with him in glory' (Col 3:4).

I know there are extravagant opinions in the world about the kingdom of Christ, as if it consisted
in temporal glory in part, and as if he would take it to him by carnal weapons, and so maintain
it in its greatness and grandeur; but I confess myself an alien to these notions, and believe
and profess the quite contrary, and look for the coming of Christ to judgment personally, and
betwixt this and that, for his coming in Spirit, and in the power of his word to destroy Antichrist,
to inform kings, and so give quietness to his church on earth; which shall assuredly be accomplished,[23]
when the reign of the beast, the whore, the false prophet, and of the man of sin is out (2
Thess 2:8; Isa 49:23, 52:15, 60:3,10,11,16, 62:2; Rev 21:24).

Second. Let this teach men not to think that the church is cursed of God, because she is put
in a wilderness state. Alas, that is but to train her up in a way of solitariness, to make
her Canaan the more welcome to her. Rest is sweet to the labouring man. Yea, this condition
is the first step to heaven; yea, it is a preparation to that kingdom. In his mind, they are tortures comparable
to the wooden horse or the iron pincers. Nothing is small for children, especially for a sensitive
child like Augustin. Their sensitiveness and their imagination exaggerate all things out of due
measure. In this matter, also, schoolmasters often go wrong. They do not know how to handle
delicate organizations. They strike fiercely, when a few words said at
the right moment would have much more effect on the culprit.... Monnica's
son suffered as much from the rod as he took pride in his successes
at games.

If, as Scipio, he was filled with a sensation of glory in his battles against other boys, no
doubt he pictured himself a martyr, a St. Laurence or St. Sebastian, when he was swished. He
never pardoned--save as a Christian--his schoolmasters for having brutalized
him.

Nevertheless, despite his hatred for ill-ordered lessons, his precocious
intelligence was remarked by everybody.

It was clear that such lucky gifts should not be neglected. Monnica, no doubt, was the first to get this
into her head, and she advised Patricius to make Augustin read for
a learned profession.

The business of the curia was not exactly brilliant, and so he may have perceived that his son might
raise their fortunes if he had definite employment. Augustin, a professor of eloquence or a celebrated
pleader, might be the saviour and the benefactor of his family. The town councils, and even
the Imperial treasury, paid large salaries to rhetoricians. In those days, rhetoric led to
everything. Some of the professors who went from town to town giving lectures
made considerable fortunes. At Thagaste they pointed with admiration
to the example of the rhetorician Victorinus, an African, a fellow-countryman,
who had made a big reputation over-seas, and had his statue in the
Roman Forum.

And many years before, had not M. Cornelius Fronto, of Cirta, another African, become the
tutor of Marcus Aurelius, who covered him with honours and wealth and finally raised him to the
Consulship? Pertinax himself, did he not begin as a simple teacher of grammar, and become Proconsul
of Africa and then Emperor of Rome? How many stimulants for provincial
ambition!...

Augustin's parents reasoned as the middle-class parents of to-day. They discounted
the future, and however hard up they were, they resolved to make sacrifices
for his education. And as the schools of Thagaste were inadequate,
it was decided to send this very promising boy to Madaura.

V

THE SCHOOLBOY OF MADAURA

A new world opened before Augustin. It was perhaps the first time
he had ever gone away from Thagaste.

Of course, Madaura is not very far off; there are about thirty miles at most between the two towns.
But there are no short journeys for children. This one lay along the military road which ran from Hippo to
Theveste--a great Roman causeway paved with large flags on the outskirts of towns, and carefully pebbled
over all the rest of the distance. Erect upon the high saddle of his horse,
Augustin, who was to become a tireless traveller and move about ceaselessly
over African roads during all his episcopal life--Augustin got his first
glimpse of the poetry of the open road, a poetry which we have lost for
ever.

How amusing they were, the African roads of those days, how full of
sights!

Pauses were made at inns with walls thick as the ramparts of citadels, their interiors bordered by stables built
in arcades, heaped up with travellers' packs and harness. In the centre were the trough and cistern;
and to the little rooms opening in a circle on to the balcony, drifted up a smell of oil and fodder,
and the noise of men and of beasts of burthen, and of the camels as
they entered majestically, curving their long necks under the lintel
of the door. Then there was talk with the merchants, just arrived from the
south, who brought news of the nomad countries, and had stories to
tell.

And then, without hurrying, a start was made again for the next stage. Long files of chariots were encountered
carrying provisions to soldiers garrisoned on the frontier, or the State-distributed
corn of the Roman people to the sea-ports; or again, from time to
time, the lectica, brought along by slaves or mules, of a bishop
on a visitation; and then the litter, with close-drawn curtains, of
a matron or some great personage.

Of a sudden all pulled sharp to one side; the vehicles lined up on the edge of the road; and there passed
at full speed, in a cloud of dust, a messenger of the Imperial Post....

Certainly this road from Hippo to Theveste was one of the busiest and
most picturesque in the province: it was one of its main arteries.

At first the look of the country is rather like the neighbourhood of Thagaste. The wooded and
mountainous landscape still spreads out its little breast-shaped hills
and its sheets of verdure. Here and there the road skirts the deeply-ravined
valley of the Medjerda. At the foot of the precipitous slopes, the
river can be heard brawling in a torrent over its stony bed, and
there are sharp descents among thickets of juniper and the fringed
roots of the dwarf-pines.

Then, as the descent continues, the land becomes
thinner and spaces bare of vegetation appear oftener. At last, upon a
piece of tableland, Madaura comes into view, all white in the midst
of the vast tawny plain, where to-day nothing is to be seen but a
mausoleum in ruins, the remains of a Byzantine fortress, and vague
traces vanishing away.

This is the first rise of the great plain which declines towards Theveste
and the group of the Aures Mountains.

Coming from the woodland country of Thagaste, the nakedness of it is startling. Here and there, thin cows
crop starveling shrubs which have grown on the bank of some oued run dry. Little asses, turned loose, save
themselves at a gallop towards the tents of the nomads, spread out, black and hairy, like immense bats on
the whiteness of the land. Nearer, a woman's red haick interposes, the single stain of bright colour breaking
the indefinite brown and grey of the plain. Here is felt the harshness
of Numidia; it is almost the stark spaces of the desert world. But on the
side towards the east, the architecture of mountains, wildly sculptured,
stands against the level reaches of the horizon.

Upon
the clear background of the sky, shew, distinctly, lateral spurs and
a cone like to the mystic representation of Tanit.

Towards the south, crumbling isolated crags appear, scattered about like gigantic pedestals uncrowned
of their statues, or like the pipes of an organ raised there to capture and attune the cry of the great winds
of the steppe.

This country is characterized by a different kind of energy from Thagaste.

There is more air and light and space. If the plantation is sparse,
the beautiful shape of the land may be observed all the better. Nothing
breaks or lessens the grand effects of the light.... And let no one say
that Augustin's eyes cared not for all that, he who wrote after his
conversion, and in all the austerity of his repentance: "If sentient
things had not a soul, we should not love them so much."

It is here, between Madaura and Thagaste, during the eager years of
youth, that he gathered together the seeds of sensations and images
which, later on, were to burst forth into fiery and boiling metaphors
in the Confessions, and in his homilies and paraphrases of Holy Scripture.

Later on, he will not have the time to observe, or he will have lost the
power.

Rhetoric will stretch its commonplace veil between him and the unceasing springtide of the earth. Ambition
will turn him away from those sights which reveal themselves only to hearts unselfish and indifferent.
Then, later on, Faith will seize hold of him to the exclusion of
all else.

He will no longer perceive the creation save at odd moments in a kind of metaphysical dream, and,
so to speak, across the glory of the Creator. But in these youthful years all things burst upon him with extraordinary
violence and ecstasy. His undulled senses swallowed greedily the whole banquet offered by this
wide world to his hunger for pleasure. The fugitive beauty of things and beings, with all their charms,
revealed itself to him in its newness: novissimarum rerum fugaces
pulchritudines, earumque suavitates.

This craving for sensation will still exist in the great Christian teacher,
and betray itself in the warm and coloured figures of his style. Of course,
he was not as a worldly describer, who studies to produce phrases which
present an image, or arranges glittering pictures--all such endeavours
he knew nothing about.

But by instinct, and thanks to his warm African temperament, he was a kind of impressionist and metaphysical
poet.

If the rural landscape of Thagaste is reflected in certain passages--the
pleasantest and most well known--of the Confessions, all the intellectual
part of Augustin's work finds its symbolical commentary here in this
arid and light-splashed plain of Madaura.

Like it, the thought of Augustin has no shadows. Like it too, it is lightened by strange and splendid tints which
seem to come from far off, from a focal fire invisible to human eyes. No modern writer has better praised
the light--not only the immortal light of the blessed, but that light which rests on the African fields,
and is on land and sea; and nobody has spoken of it with more amplitude and wonder. The truth is,
that in no country in the world, not even in Egypt, in the rose-coloured lands of Karnak and Luxor,
is the light more pure and admirable than in these great bare plains of Numidia and the region of the
Sahara. Is there not enchantment for the eyes of the metaphysician in this play of light, these
nameless interfulgent colours which appear flimsy as the play of thought?
For the glowing floating haze is made of nothing--of lines, of gleam,
of unregulated splendour.

And all this triumph of fluctuating light and elusive colour is quenched with the sun, smoulders
into darkness, even as ideas in the obscure depths of the intelligence which reposes....

Not less than this land, stern even to sadness, but hot and sumptuous,
the town of Madaura must have impressed Augustin.

It was an old Numidian city, proud of its antiquity. Long before the Roman
conquest, it had been a fortress of King Syphax. Afterwards, the conquerors
settled there, and in the second century of our era, Apuleius, the
most famous of its children, could state before a proconsul, not without
pride, that Madaura was a very prosperous colony.

It is probable that this old town was not so much Romanized as its
neighbours, Thimgad and Lambesa, which were of recent foundation and
had been built all at once by decree of the Government.

But it may well have been as Roman as Theveste, a no less ancient city, where the population was
probably just as mixed. Madaura, like Theveste, had its temples with pillars and Corinthian porticoes,
its triumphal arches (these were run up everywhere), its forum surrounded
by a covered gallery and peopled with statues.

Statues also were very liberally distributed in those days. We know of at least three at Madaura which
Augustin mentions in one of his letters: A god Mars in his heroic nakedness, and another Mars
armed from head to foot; opposite, the statue of a man, in realistic
style, stretching out three fingers to neutralize the evil eye.

These familiar figures remained very clear in the recollection of Augustin. In the evening, or at the hour of
the siesta, he had stretched himself under their pedestals and played at dice
or bones in the cool shade of the god Mars, or of the Man with outstretched
fingers. The slabs of marble of the portico made a good place to play or
sleep.

Among these statues, there was one perhaps which interested the lad and
stimulated all his early ambitions--that of Apuleius, the great man
of Madaura, the orator, philosopher, sorcerer, who was spoken of from
one end to the other of Africa.

By dint of gazing
at this, and listening to the praises of the great local author, did the
young scholar become aware of his vocation?

Did he have from this time a confused sort of wish to become one day
another Apuleius, a Christian Apuleius--to surpass the reputation
of this celebrated pagan? These impressions and admirations of youth
have always a more or less direct influence upon what use a boy makes of his
talents.

Be that as it will, Augustin could not take a step in Madaura without running against the legend
of Apuleius, who was become almost a divinity for his fellow-countrymen.

He was looked upon not only as a sage, but as a most wily nigromancer. The pagans compared him to Christ--nay,
put him higher than Christ. In their view he had worked much more astonishing miracles than those of
Jesus or of Apollonius of Tyana. And people told the extravagant stories out of his Metamorphoses
as real, as having actually happened. Nothing was seen on all sides but wizards, men changed into animals,
animals, or men and women, under some spell. In the inns, a man watched with a suspicious look the ways
of the maidservant who poured out his drink or handed him a dish.
Perhaps some magic potion was mingled with the cheese or bread that
she was laying on the table.

It was an atmosphere of feverish and delirious credulity. The pagan madness got the better of
the Christians themselves. Augustin, who had lived in this atmosphere, will later find considerable trouble in
maintaining his strong common sense amid such an overflow of marvels.

For
the moment, the fantasy of tales filled him with at least as much
enthusiasm as the supernatural.

At Madaura he lived in a miraculous world, where everything charmed
his senses and his mind, and everything stimulated his precocious
instinct for Beauty.

More than Thagaste, no doubt, Madaura bore the marks of the building genius of the Romans. Even
to-day their descendants, the Italians, are the masons of the world, after having been the architects.
The Romans were the building nation above all others. They it was who raised and established towns
upon the same model and according to the same ideal as an oration or
a poem. They really invented the house, mansio, not only the shelter
where one lives, but the building which itself lives, which triumphs
over years and centuries, a huge construction ornamental and sightly,
existing as much--and perhaps more--for the delight of the eyes as
for usefulness.

The house, the Town-with-deep-streets, perfectly ordered, were a great
matter of amazement for the African nomad--he who passes and never
settles down anywhere.

He hated them, doubtless, as the haunts of the soldier and the publican,
his oppressors, but he also regarded them with admiration mixed with jealousy
as the true expression of a race which, when it entered a country,
planted itself for eternity, and claimed to join magnificence and
beauty to the manifestation of its strength.

The Roman ruins which are scattered over modern Algeria humiliate ourselves
by their pomp--us who flatter ourselves that we are resuming the
work of the Empire and continuing its tradition.

They are a permanent reproach to our mediocrity, a continual incitement
to grandeur and beauty.

Of course, the Roman architecture could not have had on Augustin, this
still unformed young African, the same effect as it has to-day on a
Frenchman or a man from Northern Europe. But it is certain that it
formed, without his knowledge, his thought and his power of sensation,
and extended for him the lessons of the Latin rhetoricians and grammarians.

All

that was not exactly very Christian. But from these early school years Augustin got
further and further away from Christianity, and the examples he had under
his eyes, at Madaura were hardly likely to strengthen him in his faith.
It was hardly an edifying atmosphere there for a Catholic youth who
had a lively imagination, a pleasure-loving temperament, and who liked
pagan literature.

The greatest part of the population were pagans, especially among the aristocrats.
The Decurions continued to preside at festivals in honour of the old idols.

These
festivals were frequent. The least excuse was taken to engarland
piously the doors of houses with branches, to bleed the sacrificial
pig, or slaughter the lamb.

In the evening, squares and street corners were illuminated. Little
candles burned on all the thresholds.

During the mysteries of Bacchus, the town councillors themselves headed
the popular rejoicings. It was an African carnival, brutal and full
of colour. People got tipsy, pretended they were mad.

For the sport of the thing, they assaulted the passers and robbed them.
The dull blows on tambourines, the hysterical and nasal preludes
of the flutes, excited an immense elation, at once sensual and mystic.

And all quieted down among the cups and leather flagons of wine, the grease and meats of banquets
in the open air. Even in a country as sober as Africa, the pagan feasts were never much else
than excuses for gorging and orgies. Augustin, who after his conversion had only sarcasms for the
carnival of Madaura, doubtless went with the crowd, like many other Christians. Rich and influential
people gave the example. There was danger of annoying them by making a group apart. And then,
there was no resisting the agreeableness of such festivals.

Perhaps he was even brought to these love-feasts by those in whose charge he was. For, in fact, to
whom had he been entrusted? Doubtless to some host of Patricius, a pagan like himself. Or did he
lodge with his master, a grammarian, who kept a boarding-house for the boys? Almost all these schoolmasters
were pagan too. Is it wonderful that the Christian lessons of Monnica and the nurses at Thagaste became
more and more blurred in Augustin's mind? Many years after, an old Madaura grammarian, called Maximus, wrote to him
in a tone of loving reproach: "Thou hast drawn away from us"--a secta nostra deviasti. Did he wish to hint
that at this time Augustin had glided into paganism? Nothing is more unlikely. He himself assures us that the
name of Christ remained always "graven on his heart." But while he was at Madaura he lived indifferently
with pagans and Christians.

Besides that, the teaching he got was altogether pagan in tone.

No doubt he picked out, as he always did, the subjects which suited him. Minds such as his fling themselves
upon that which is likely to nourish them: they throw aside all the rest, or suffer it very unwillingly.
Thus Augustin never wavered in his dislike for Greek: he was a poor Greek scholar. He detested
the Greeks by instinct. According to Western prejudice, these men of the East were all rascals or
amusers. Augustin, as a practical African, always regarded the Greeks as vain, discoursing wits.
In a word, they were not sincere people whom it would be safe to trust.
The entirely local patriotism of the classical Greek authors further
annoyed this Roman citizen who was used to regard the world as his
country: he thought them very narrow-minded to take so much interest
in the history of some little town.

As for him, he looked higher and farther. It must be remembered that in
the second half of the fourth century the Greek attitude, broadened and fully
conscious of itself, set itself more and more against Latinism, above
all, politically. There it lay, a hostile and impenetrable block before
the Western peoples.

And here was a stronger reason for a Romanized African to dislike the Greeks.

So he painfully construed the Iliad and Odyssey, very cross at the difficulties of a foreign language which
prevented him from grasping the plots of the fine, fabulous narratives. There were, however, abridgments used
in the schools, a kind of summaries of the Trojan War, written by Latin grammarians under the
odd pseudonyms of Dares the Phrygian and Dictys of Crete.

But these abridgments were very dry for an imagination like Augustin's. He much preferred the AEneid,
the poem admired above all by the Africans, on account of the episode devoted to the foundation of
Carthage. Virgil was his passion. He read and re-read him continually; he knew him by heart. To the
end of his life, in his severest writings, he quoted verses or whole passages out of his much-loved
poet. Dido's adventure moved him to tears. They had to pluck the book out of his hands.

Now the reason is that there was a secret harmony between Virgil's
soul and the soul of Augustin.

Both were gracious and serious. One, the great poet, and one, the humble schoolboy, they both had pity
on the Queen of Carthage, they would have liked to save her, or at any rate to mitigate her sadness,
to alter a little the callousness of AEneas and the harshness of
the Fates. But think of it! Love is a divine sickness, a chastisement
sent by the gods. It is just, when all's said, that the guilty one should
endure her agony to the very end.

And then,
such very great things are going to arise out of this poor love! Upon it depends the lot of two
Empires. What counts a woman before Rome and Carthage? Besides, she was bound to perish: the gods
had decreed it.... There was in all that a concentrated emotion, a depth of sentiment, a religious
appeal which stirred Augustin's heart, still unaware of itself.

This obedience of the Virgilian hero to the heavenly will, was already an adumbration of the humility
of the future Christian.

Certainly, Augustin did not perceive very plainly in these turbid
years of his youth the full religious significance of Virgil's poem.

Carried away by his headstrong nature, he yielded to the heart-rending charm of the romantic story: he
lived it, literally, with the heroine. When his schoolmasters desired him to elaborate the lament of
the dying Queen Dido in Latin prose, what he wrote had a veritable quiver of anguish. Without the least
defence against lust and the delusions of the heart, he spent intellectually and in a single outburst
all the strength of passion.

He absorbed every love-poem with the eagerness of a participating soul. If he took pleasure in the licentiousness of
Plautus and Terence, if he read delightfully those comedies wherein the worst weaknesses are excused
and glorified, I believe that he took still more pleasure in the Latin Elegiacs who present without any
shame the romantic madness of Alexandrine love. For what sing these poets even to weariness,
unless it be that no one can resist the Cyprian goddess, that life has no other end but love?
Love for itself, to love for the sake of loving--there is the constant subject of these sensualists,
of Catullus, Propertius, Tibullus, Ovid. After the story of Dido,
the youthful reader was ravished by the story of Ariadne, even more disturbing,
because no remorse modifies the frenzy of it.

He read:

Now while the careless hero flees, beating the wave with his and casting to the gales of the open sea his
idle promises,--there, standing among the shingle of the beach, the daughter of Minos follows him,
alas! with her beautiful sad eyes: she stares, astonied, like to a Bacchante changed into a statue. She
looks forth, and her heart floats upon the great waves of her grief. She lets slip from her head
her fine-spun coif, she tears away the thin veils which cover her bosom, and the smooth cincture
which supports her quivering breasts. All that slips from her body into the salt foam which ripples
round her feet.

But little she cares for her coif or for her apparel carried away by the tide! Lost, bewildered, with
all her heart and all her soul, she is clinging to thee, O Theseus.

And if Augustin, when he had read these burning verses of Catullus, looked through the Anthologies
which were popular in the African schools, he would come upon "The Vigil of Venus," that eclogue which
ends with such a passionate cry:

O my springtime, when wilt thou come?

When shall I be as the swallow? When shall I cease to be silent?... May he love to-morrow, he has not
loved yet. And he who has already loved, may he love again to-morrow.
Imagine the effect of such exhortations on a youth of fifteen! Truly,
this springtide of love, which the poet cries for in his distress,
the son of Monnica knew well was come for him. How he must have listened
to the musical and melancholy counsellor who told his pain to the
leaves of the book! What stimulant and what food for his boyish longings
and dreams! And what a divine chorus of beauties the great love-heroines
of ancient epic and elegy, Helen, Medea, Ariadne, Phaedra, formed
and re-formed continually in his dazzled memory!

SECOND. It is also called the Spirit of life, [either] more closely, [or] more openly.

More closely, where it is called 'living water,' 'that living water,' and 'water springing
up into everlasting life' (John 4:10,11,14, 7:38).

Then more openly or expressly it is called 'the Spirit of life.' 'And after three days and
an half, the Spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet' (Rev
11:11).

From hence, therefore, I conclude, that by these terms, water of life, is meant the Spirit
of grace, or the Spirit and grace of the gospel. And the terms are such as are most apt to
set forth the Spirit and grace of the gospel by: for,

[First. The term WATER.]

1. By this term, WATER, an opposition to sin is presented unto us. Sin is compared to water,
to deadly waters, and man is said to drink it, as one that drinketh waters. 'How much more
abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh iniquity like water?' (Job 15:16). So, then, that
grace and the Spirit of grace is compared to water, it is to show what an antidote grace is
against sin; it is, as I may call it, counter poison to it. It is that ONLY thing by the virtue
of which sin can be forgiven, vanquished, and overcome.

2. By this term WATER, you have an opposition also to the curse, that is due to sin, presented
unto you. The curse, is compared to water; the remedy is compared to water. Let the curse come
into the bowels of the damned, saith the psalmist, like water (Psa 109:18). The grace of God
also, as you see, is compared to water. The curse is burning; water is cooling: the curse doth
burn with hell-fire; cooling is by the grace of the holy gospel: but they that overstand the
day of grace, shall not obtain to cool their tongues so much of this water as will hang on
the tip of one's finger (Luke 16:24,25).[2]

3. Water is also of a spreading nature, and so is sin; wherefore sin may for this also be compared
to water. It overspreads the whole man, and infects every member; it covereth all as doth water.
Grace for this cause may be also compared to water; for that it is of a spreading nature, and
can, if God will, cover the face of the whole earth; of body and soul.

4. Sin is of a fouling, defiling nature; and grace is of a washing, cleansing nature; therefore
grace, and the Spirit of grace, is compared to water. 'I will,' saith God, 'sprinkle clean
water upon you, [my Spirit, v 27] and ye shall be clean: from all your filthiness, and from
all your idols, will I cleanse you' (Eze 36:25).

5. Water; the element of water naturally descends to and abides in low places, in valleys and
places which are undermost; and the grace of God and the Spirit of grace is of that nature
also; the hills and lofty mountains have not the rivers running over the tops of them; no,
though they may run 'among them.' But they run among the valleys: and 'God resisteth the proud,
and giveth grace unto the humble,' 'to the lowly' (John 4:6; 1 Peter 5:5; Prov 3:34).

6. The grace of God is compared to water, for that it is it which causeth fruitfulness; water
causeth fruitfulness, want of water is the cause of barrenness; and this is the reason why
the whole world is so empty of fruit to Godward, even because so few of the children of men
have the Spirit of grace in their hearts. But,

[Second. The term LIFE.]

As there is a great special signification in this term WATER, so there is in this term LIFE,
water of life. 'He showed me the water of life.' In that, therefore, there is added to this
word water, that of life, it is, in the general, to show what excellent virtue and operation
there is in this water. It is aquae vitae, water of life, or water that hath a health and life
in it. And this term shows us,

1. That the world of graceless men are dead; dead in trespasses and sins (John 5:21,25; Eph
2:1; Col 2:13). Dead, that is, without life and motion Godward, in the way of the testament
of his Son.

2. It also shows us that there is not any thing in the world, or in the doctrine of the world,
the law, that can make them live. Life is only in this water, death is in all other things.[3]
The law, I say, which is that that would, if anything in the whole world, give life unto the
world, but that yet killeth, condemneth, and was added that the offence might abound; wherefore
there is no life either in the world or in the doctrine of the world. It is only in this water,
in this grace of God, which is here called the after of life, or God's aquae vitae.[4]

3. It is also called the water of life to show that by the grace of God men may live, how dead
soever their sins have made them. But eighteen hours a day could not satisfy her longing for "the improvement
of her precious time."

So she managed, when alone or not engaged in reading or conversation,
to keep up what at a little distance might be taken for mere humming,
but what was really intelligent singing, simultaneous with the most
active work of her hands.

It might begin with a hymn, but would glide on beyond into her own
words of praise or prayer in impromptu music.

This free, original singing was the settled habit of her most driving
business hours, and was not annoying to others.

But how those black eyes would sparkle and those florid cheeks glow
with heavenly light as her whole soul seemed absorbed in this spontaneous
singing, while the work of her hands went briskly on, leaving in speed
or finish no mark of absence of mind or false motion.

But this was not her only method of doubling her diligence. Her experience and wisdom brought her
many inquirers after the truth, and demands upon her conversational powers
were many and imperative. Yet those busy, provident hands, long acquainted
with needles, seemed to make them fly and click in about even race,
with the mind and the tongue, "Diligence in business," "singing with
grace in the heart," and "conversation seasoned with grace" mingled
in her methods of "redeeming the time."

PART III.

RETIREMENT.

* * * * *

CHAPTER I.

HOMES OF EARLY METHODISTS.

From the earthly point of observation how sad is the breaking up of
Christian homes!

The genuinely hospitable homes of the early Methodists were peculiar. There were elements in their hospitality
which do not quite find their equal in our day. The old circuit system set everything in motion. Not
only were the "circuit riders" circulating everywhere, but quarterly meetings, "two days' meetings,"
and even regular circuit preaching, whether on a week day or Sunday, stirred up the
people. And as they were scattered in residence, and traveling was slow,
every comfortable, hospitable Methodist residence became not only
a free stopping place, but a house of entertainment, where both soul
and body found refreshment, and the one just as free and cordial as
the other.

The guest did not embarrass the host or hostess, for nothing but plain fare was expected; and as
to spiritual refreshment, he left a blessing behind him, and with rekindled joy went on his
way rejoicing. So also it was when his turn came to entertain.

The homes of the early Methodists, especially in the country and in
the rural villages, were much more permanent than in this day--not
rented, but mostly owned by their occupants--and every year seemed
to add to the sacredness of these hospitable old abodes. The trees,
the watering trough, the well sweep, the plain old buildings, the
very ground, seemed consecrated to God and his cause.

But the kind host and hostess "have finished their course" and been
called up higher.

The honored old place is honorable no longer. The tenants or new owners,
or, worse still, ungodly children, have desecrated everything. The old-time
guests pass it with a sigh.

The hill, the brook are there, but the aged horse looks in vain for the welcome open gate and watering
place, and, drooping his head, walks slowly by in sadness. Ministers and church people tread that yard
no more. The very ground seems backslidden. Sabbaths have fled. Prayers and praises are no longer
echoed. That light is put out, and "how great is that darkness!"

The time came for Joshua and Elizabeth to yield to infirmity, and retire
from active life.

The hard work of the new country told seriously upon even strong
constitutions. Some of the members of their society older, and some
even younger, than themselves had yielded and gone.

For long, happy years they had kept up an establishment of an unusually
hospitable order for even a cordial church and a free, social age.
They had been more able, more willing, more zealous, and had more
"faculty" for it.

But old age came on then earlier than now. The "threescore years" of which they
had so long sung had already gone by. Their younger sons were away in the
itinerant ministry. In this retirement they enjoyed choice church
privileges. Several of their old-time friends had collected in and
near the place, among whom were a few of their old Massachusetts
classmates and, above all, the aged and excellent local preacher[1]
who was praying for Miss Elizabeth Ward in Pittsfield when she was
converted, and who had for so many years lived near the family and
had preached in their house nearly or quite as much as all other ministers.

He and his venerable companion had retired there, too, with one of their sons.

[Footnote 1: Rev. Thomas Hubbard.]

But besides these retired neighbors, their retreat being but five
miles from their old farm and whilom cottage chapel, several of the
village residents had long been camp meeting and quarterly meeting
associates.

So, with a dutiful son and near-by church, this superannuated couple, surrounded by congenial society,
surrendered their beloved public life and sought an evening of rest,
in which to ripen for heaven.

Hardly could aged people be happier or more quiet and free from worldly
care.

The storms of life were past; the crowd of business, the rush of labor, the study of complicated
lines of duty--all these have gone by like a storm, and left a great calm. Still they find some
little to do with what little strength they can command and the limited income
left them.

CHAPTER II.

JOSHUA ARNOLD.

No life experience of Elizabeth would seem at all complete without a
chapter giving a somewhat connected view of her companion, near a
half century by her side, in her toils, liberality, and church work.

Did she, when driven by persecution from her father's house, take up, under stress of calamity, an inferior associate
for life? Let us see. If, as many claim, the wisest matches are founded on contrast, this must have been par
excellence. For if we except their large size and mutual endowment of sound common sense, there was very
little natural similarity. In Connecticut the farms of the Arnolds
and the Wards joined, and yet they were not intimate as families,
for there was, for that day, too great disparity in property and style.

Both were
moral and intelligent, but the large Arnold family on the hill,
though in comfortable circumstances, did not train in the same "set"
with the elegant establishment at the Cove.

Of the numerous family (of almost giant size) of Ebenezer and Anna Miller Arnold
there were only two sons. Ebenezer, among the eldest, had the ancestral
name, took to a mariner's life, was a few years a sea captain, and
lies at the bottom of the ocean.

Joshua was the youngest of the family, the almost idol of his parents, and of a house full of lusty sisters,
who vied with one another which should teach him most and secure most
of his confidence.

So he lived on until nearly thirty a bachelor. Such opportunities as
were afforded the common farmers' boys of New England in the eighteenth
century young Joshua diligently improved, and became a close student,
and well qualified as a teacher of common schools of his day.

His specialties were mathematics, penmanship, bookkeeping, business
science and forms, and navigation. And he continued to do more or
less in this profession until fifty years of age.

He was converted among the first fruits of Methodist labors in that part
of New England.

Then, every Methodist studied closely into her doctrines, and this young
man became qualified to state clearly, and ably defend, all that
was peculiar to that Church. The cast of his mind was logical, candid, patient--he
was never inclined to hasty conclusions.

He loved to dig deep, collect strong evidence, and wait till conclusions were
sound and inevitable.

His brethren soon marked him for the ministry, and so advised; but,
with his great modesty and high opinions of a divine call, he was
not then, and never was, satisfied that he had such an essential individual
commission.

Without a full consciousness of duty in the line of that awful responsibility, this pious young
man refused to look in that direction. He, however, cherished a high sense of the honor involved
in the confidence of the Church, and felt impelled to lay himself out to do his best as a private
member.

Under the ministry of such able Methodist preachers as Asbury, Jesse
Lee, and George Roberts, young Joshua had imbibed the main doctrines
of theology, and set out in earnest to "search the Scriptures," both
"for correction" if wrong, and for confirmation in the truth he had
received and experienced.

Thus fairly started on the King's highway of truth, he became profoundly interested in Bible
study; and continued both the study and the intense love of it through life. He dug in this mine
more than a third of a century without any human commentary, and found, to his great joy, that
the poet had struck it: "God is his own interpreter, and He will make it plain." So diligently
did he search for the "interpretation of Scripture by Scripture," that
he largely learned the doctrinal Scriptures by heart, and also book,
chapter, and verse; and to family and friends he was "both concordance
and commentary."

Near the middle of his experience and biblical research Mr. Arnold was urged, almost driven, to take license
to exhort, and more publicly divulge some of the treasures of his
years of study. He had thus "improved in public" (as exhorting was
then called) but a year or two when his brethren, finding more of
the expository than hortatory in his discourses, urged that his proper
office was that of a local preacher.

But to this he had two objections: lack of a distinct call, and a settled fear that the Church was growing
too numerous a secular ministry; so he utterly refused.

For the balance of his active life, as health and opportunity permitted,
he "preached many things to the people in his exhortations," always
laying for them a solid doctrinal foundation, and plentifully using
Scripture language, both accurately quoted and wisely applied, and
book and chapter usually given.

His appointments for exhortation never lacked attendants or interest; and when called, as he
often was, to "supply the appointment" of a circuit preacher, the substitute was not met with wry
faces nor spoken of in frowns. Yet his highest apparent successes in speaking, if estimated by the
excitement, were his brief speeches in love feast, not boisterous,
but invariably stirring the deep of the heart of the meeting.

Joshua Arnold's singing was no way superior in kind and had no marked defect,
unless it was that time sometimes yielded to sentiment.

But the amount of psalm singing done in a half century by this peaceful man was certainly marvelous.
The leading of most of the hymns in the social meetings was a very small proportion of it. Whenever
he found a psalm, a hymn, or a chorus that struck a chord in his
devout heart he laid it carefully away in his retentive memory, and
it was instantly called up when he wanted to sing it.

But what was most noteworthy in his singing was that his happy heart,
and soft, sweet voice, and abundant store of pious psalmody kept
him singing wherever and whenever he could with propriety.

Mr. Arnold was the opposite of a business sharper. He was a moderate,
patient toiler, but traded no more than he was obliged to, and always
with frank, honest words, and very few words.

He hated extortion, avoided debt, and threw nothing away in interest or in lawsuits, and was
both careful and skillful in maintaining a good influence. Like his wife, he was economical and
liberal; and the Christian liberality of their home knew no bounds but the limit of their means;
nor was that limit dreaded, nor often, if ever, found, when it embarrassed the case on hand.

As Joshua Arnold was no ordinary man, so his personnel was rather peculiar:
nearly six feet in height; large, but not fat; wore a shoe of size number
twelve, and hat size seven and a half.

His eye was blue, large, and mild; forehead broad and high; nose long and straight; lips long and thin; mouth
and chin small and delicate; hair brown, fine, straight, and complexion florid. His motions were moderate,
and temper very steady and mild.

CHAPTER III.

SEPARATION.

But this aged couple were to share their joys and sorrows in their retirement
but a few years.

Joshua
was the first called away. He died in his seventy-seventh year, in peace with God and all men. Just before
his speech failed one of his sons inquired how long he had been in
the Methodist Episcopal Church.

And the good man had the desire of his heart.

Elizabeth was now a widow, and had nearly reached her "threescore and
ten years." She was not much bent with age, though "compassed with
infirmity."

She still found some little to do among the sick, the poor, and the perishing,
and was not gloomy or desponding in her loneliness. She wrote much to
her scattered children, who were too distant to be seen often, and her
letters breathed the spirit of heaven.

When possible to attend the preaching of the word she was "not a forgetful
hearer," but kept up her old method of prayerful abstraction.

She had during her whole religious life followed it. She would early enter the meeting as if
she saw no one and go solemnly to her seat, and either kneel or cover
her face for a time, and thence on until the voice of the opening
service aroused her would be absorbed in devotion.

As
long as able to attend, her voice was heard in prayer and class meetings; and many came to her
room for counsel and help in their experience.

It was marvelous to see what a change retirement and its quiet had
wrought in the spirit and manner of this woman.

The drive and hum of busy life were over; a heavenly calm had ensued--solemn,
serene, peaceful--no agony of prayer, no ecstasy of spirit, no shouts
of transport, no fiery trials. Her infirmities accumulate, but still
she rejoices in sacred, hallowed peace. She becomes a cripple, almost
confined to her bed, and continues so for years; but her mind retains
its strength and serenity, and her whole heart rejoices in God, her
immovable Rock.

The last decade or more of her life was marked as a continual feast upon the holy word of God. She learned
what her blessed Saviour meant when he quoted and sanctioned that Scripture,
"Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth
out of the mouth of God," and also, his promise that the Holy Comforter
should quote to the faithful such passages of the word they had studied
as their circumstances might require.

So every day, and usually oftener, the Lord would give her a "passage to
feed upon," "day by day her daily bread."

On the
last day that she could speak her pastor's wife inquired after her "passage
for that day," and she instantly quoted Josh. i. 5, and Heb. xiii,
5, "I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee."

Just before her speech failed her she called to
her a daughter-in-law and gave her a minute account of her graveclothes,
which had been ready for several years, and she found everything as
she had described them. Thus, as "a shock of corn fully ripe," she
was at length gathered home.

She died in Fulton, Oswego County, N. Y., in August, 1865, in the eighty-eighth year of her age, and in
the seventieth year of her religious experience, and is buried by
the side of her husband in Mount Adna Cemetery, where they together await
the resurrection of the just.

CHAPTER IV.

CONCLUSION.

The "disinherited" Elizabeth was never restored to her rights and heirship
as a daughter. As old age came upon that rigid father he partially relented
and doled out a few hundreds to her where his other children had their
thousands.

He even sent to Massachusetts for her to visit him on his deathbed
and counsel him concerning salvation, and pray with him; and he indulged
some hope under her prayers; but he made no confession of his wrongs
to her, nor amends for his injustice.

Her two brothers and three
sisters all credited their religious experience to God's blessing
upon Elizabeth's prayers, counsels, and life; but only one of them
ever undertook to restore what the father had taken from Elizabeth's
right and given to her, and she did not do it until she was about
to die without issue. With one voice they freely condemned her disinheritance
and the persecutions she had had to suffer. But when, their souls
being "ill at ease" under the remembrance of her wrongs, they spoke
to her on the subject (for she would not introduce it), they would
simply repeat, "Father so willed it, and you know, dear sister, that
no one could ever turn him."

All became church members, and so lived
and died, but all in Calvinian communions; while all of Elizabeth's
children became Methodists, and two of her sons, as we have seen,
itinerant ministers. She and her pious husband, as before stated,
were industrious, economical, and liberal, and Agar's prayer, "Give
me neither poverty nor riches," was their prayer, and with its answer
they walked happily and usefully through life, "serving their generation
by the will of God," and passing in peace to their reward.

THE END. And it is, said again, they 'shall go out from
Jerusalem,' that is, the church or house of God still (Zech 14:8). In that they are said to
come out from under the threshold, it may be to intimate that they ran but low formerly, if
compared to what they do now. Which might also be signified by this, that they 'issued out,'
that that issues out ordinarily comes forth but slowly. Also the prophet saith, the first time
he went through the waters, they were but up to the ankles (Eze 47:3,4). But what is ankle-deep
to that which followeth after? It is said also to come out from Jerusalem, where, I perceive,
were no great rivers, to intimate, that as long as the first priesthood, first temple, and
type, were in their splendour, only the shadow of heavenly things were in use, and that then
grace ran but slowly, nor would run much faster, because Jesus was not yet glorified. For the
Spirit and abundance of grace was to be given not before but after his ascension.

Wherefore, now Jesus is ascended, now he is glorified, now grace proceeds from the throne,
not from the threshold of the house. That of which the mercy-seat was a type, that which is
called the throne of grace (Exo 25:17; Heb 4:16). And it is called the throne of grace, even,
therefore, because it is that from or out of which proceeds this river of water of life, this
overflowing grace of God. Now, it may be asked what is the throne of grace? and I shall answer
it is the humanity of Christ. He is the throne, he is the Jacob in which God sitteth (Isa 22:22,23).
And he shall be for a glorious throne to his Father's house (Rev 3:7). The fulness of the Godhead
dwells in him bodily; and God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, nor can grace
come to men but by Christ, nor can God rest as to our salvation but in him. But because I have
spoken of this thing more particularly upon that text, 'Let us therefore come boldly unto the
throne of grace,' &c., I shall, therefore, here say no more.

Only, methinks, it is a glorious title that the Holy Ghost has given to the humanity of Christ,
in that he calls it the throne of God; and methinks he gives it the highest preference in that
he saith, out thence proceeds a pure river of water of life: we will a little, therefore, speak
something to this word--the throne, the throne of God.

First. A throne is the seat of majesty and greatness; it is not for things of an inferior quality
to ascend or assume a throne. Now, then, since this river of water of life proceeds from the
throne, it intimates, that in grace and mercy there is great majesty; for grace, as it proceeds,
has a voice from the throne. And, indeed, there is nothing in heaven or earth that can so AWE
the heart as the grace of God (Hosea 3:5). It is that which makes a man fear, it is that which
makes a man tremble, it is that which makes a man bow and bend, and break to pieces (Jer 32:9).
Nothing has that majesty and commanding greatness in and upon the hearts of the sons of men
as has the grace of God. So that, I say, when he saith that this river of grace proceeds out
of the throne of God, it is to show us what a majesty, what a commanding greatness, there is
in grace. The love of Christ constraineth us.

When Moses went up to the mount the first time to receive the law, he did exceedingly fear
and quake. Why? because of the fire and smoke, thick darkness and thunder, &c. But when he
went up the second time thither, 'he made haste and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshipped.'
But why? because it was before proclaimed that 'the Lord was merciful and gracious, long-suffering,
and abundant in goodness and truth; keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity, and transgression,
and sin,' &c. (Exo 34:6-9).

There is nothing overmastereth the heart like grace, and so obligeth to sincere and unfeigned
obedience as that. It was down in Rhode Island, out a bit from Providence. He was a farmer, an old
man. He had become a Christian late in life, and this evening was telling about his start.
He had been a rough, bad man. He said that when he became a Christian even the cat knew that some change
had taken place. That caught my ear. It had a genuine ring. It seemed prophetic of the better day
coming for all the lower animal creation.

So I listened.

He said that the next morning after the change of purpose he was going
down to the village a little distance from his farm. He swung along
the road, happy in heart, singing softly to himself, and thinking
about the Saviour. All at once he could feel the fumes coming out
of a saloon ahead. 'He that believes not shall be damned,' is a word
of power, of law, and of authority, and the contemner shall find it so. Grace proceeds from
the throne, from the throne of God and of the Lamb. Wherefore, sinner, here is laid a necessity
upon thee, one of the two must be thy lot; either thou must accept of God's grace, and be content
to be saved freely thereby, notwithstanding all thy undeservings and unworthiness, or else
thou must be damned for thy rebellion and for thy rejecting of this grace. Wherefore, consider
with thyself and think what is best to be done. Is it better that thou submit to the grace
and mercy of God, and that thou acceptest of grace to reign for thee, in thee, and over thee,
than that thou shouldst run the hazard of eternal damnation because thou wouldst not be saved
by grace? Consider of this, I say, for grace is now in authority, it reigns and proceeds from
the THRONE. Now, you know, it is dangerous opposing, rejecting, despising, or disowning of
them in authority; better speak against twenty than against one that is in authority. If 'the
wrath of a king is as messengers of death' (Prov 16:14), if the wrath of the king 'is as the
roaring of a lion,' what is the wrath of God? (Prov 19:12). And you know, to despise grace,
to refuse pardon, to be unwilling to be saved from the guilt and punishment due to treasons,
the king's way, since that also is the best way, how will that provoke? how hot will that make
wrath? But to accept of grace, especially when it is free grace, grace that reigns, grace from
the throne, how sweet is it? 'His favour is as dew upon the grass.'

This, therefore, calls for thy most grave and sedate thoughts. Thou art in a strait, wilt thou
fly before Moses, or with David fall into the hands of the Lord? wilt thou go to hell for sin,
or to life by grace? One of the two, as was said before, must be thy lot: for grace is king,
is upon the throne, and will admit of no other way to glory. In and by it thou must stand,
if thou hast any hope, or canst at all 'rejoice in hope of the glory of God' (Rom 5:2).

Third. As the throne is the seat of majesty and authority, so it is the highest seat of authority.
There is none above the throne, there is no appeal from the throne. There are inferior courts
of judicature, there are under-governors, and they may sometimes, perhaps, be faulty; wherefore
in some cases an appeal from such may be lawful or permitted; but from the throne none can
appeal. Now grace is upon the throne, reigns upon the throne, proceeds from the throne. A man
may appeal from the law to the throne, from Moses to Christ, from him that spake on earth to
him that speaks from heaven; but from heaven to earth, from Christ to Moses, none can appeal,
Moses himself has forbid it. For 'Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lord
your God raise up unto you, of your brethren like, unto me; him shall ye hear in all things
whatsoever he shall say unto you. And it shall come to pass, that every soul, which will not
hear that prophet, shall be destroyed from among the people' (Acts 3:22,23).

See here, this NEW prophet judges in the highest court; he is master of grace, the throne by
which grace reigns; and even Moses admits that from himself an appeal may be made to this prophet;
yea, he allows that men may flee from himself to this prophet for refuge; but there must be
no appeal from him. Thou must hear him or die. How shall we escape, 'if we turn away from him
that speaketh from heaven?' (Heb 12:25).

This, therefore, is to be duly weighed and deeply considered by us. It is not a saint, nor
a minister, nor a prophet, nor an angel that speaks, for all these are but servants, but inferiors;
no, it is a voice from the throne, from authority, from the highest authority; it is the Lord
from heaven. This grace proceeds from the throne, and, therefore, men must stand and fall by
what shall come from hence. He that comes not hither to drink shall die for thirst. He that
refuses this water now, shall not have so much as will hang upon the tip of his finger, if
it would save his soul, hereafter. 'How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation'
(Heb 2:3).

Apostates will, therefore, from hence find gripping pangs and burning coals, for they have
turned themselves away from this throne, and from the grace that proceeds therefrom; nor is
it to any purpose whatever they plead for themselves. They are fallen from grace, and what
can help them? Christ is become of none effect unto such, whosoever is, that is, seeks to be,
justified by the law; they 'are fallen from grace' (Gal 5:4).

Fourth. And if the throne of judgment is the seat of glory, much more the throne of grace.
We will venture then to say that the throne of grace is the throne of God's glory, as the throne
of judgment will be the throne of Christ's glory, and that grace proceedeth from his throne,
that both it and he might have glory; glory in a way of mercy.

1. That it might have glory; therefore has he designed that grace shall be effectual in, and
to the salvation of some, even 'to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made
us accepted in his Beloved' (Eph 1:6). He has designed, not the glory of man's works, but the
glory of his own grace; and, therefore, has put man's works, as to justification before God,
under his feet, and counts them as filthy rags; but has set his grace up above, has made it
a king, given it authority to reign, has provided for it a throne, and called that throne the
throne of grace, from whence it also proceeds to its own praise and glory, in and by the effectual
salvation of those that receive it, and receive it not in vain.

2. As grace is exalted, and made to proceed out of the throne, to its own praise, to its own
glory; so is it also thus exalted and made flow to us like a river, that we should be the praise
of the glory of him that hath exalted it. We that receive it, and submit unto the throne whence
it proceeds, have thereby 'obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose
of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will, that we should be to the praise
of his glory' (Eph 1:11,12). So that this throne is a throne of glory. 'A glorious high throne,
from the beginning is the place of our sanctuary' (Jer 17:12). Now what follows from this,
but that they that accept of this grace give glory to God, to his grace, and to the word of
his grace; such, I say, 'glorify God for his mercy' (Rom 15:9). 'They glorify God for your
professed subjection to the gospel of Christ' (2 Cor 9:13), which is the gospel or good tidings
'of the grace of God' (Acts 20:24). They, with Abraham, believe, and give glory to God (Rom
4:20). And with the Gentiles they glorify the word of the Lord (Acts 13:48). 

Therefore, sometimes, and in some things, there appears to me as much divinity in Galen his books, <i>De Usu
Partium</i>,<16> as in Suarez's Meta- physicks. Had Aristotle been as curious in the enquiry of this
cause as he was of the other, he had not left behind him an imperfect piece of philosophy, but an
absolute tract of divinity.

<i>Sect.</i> 15.--<i>Natura nihil agit frustra</i>, is the only indis- putable axiom in philosophy. There
are no grotesques in nature; not any thing framed to fill up empty cantons, and unnecessary spaces.
In the most imperfect creatures, and such as were not preserved in the ark, but, having their seeds
and principles in the womb of nature, are everywhere, where the power of the sun is,--in these is the wisdom
of his hand discovered. Out of this rank Solomon chose the object of his admiration; indeed, what
reason may not go to school to the wisdom of bees, ants, and spiders? What wise hand teacheth
them to do what reason cannot teach us? Ruder heads stand amazed at those prodigious pieces of nature,
whales, elephants, dromedaries, and camels; these, I confess, are the colossus and majestick pieces of
her hand; but in these narrow engines there is more curious mathe- maticks; and the civility of
these little citizens more neatly sets forth the wisdom of their Maker. Who admires not Regio
Montanus his fly beyond his eagle;<17> or wonders not more at the operation of two souls in those
little bodies than but one in the trunk of a cedar? I could never content my contemplation with
those general pieces of wonder, the flux and reflux of the sea, the increase of Nile, the conversion
of the needle to the north; and have studied to match and parallel those in the more obvious and
neglected pieces of nature which, without farther travel, I can do
in the cosmography of myself. We carry with us the wonders we seek without
us: there is all Africa and her prodigies in us. We are that bold and
adventurous piece of nature, which he that studies wisely learns, in a compendium,
what others labour at in a divided piece and endless volume.

<i>Sect.</i> 16.--Thus there are two books from whence I collect my divinity. Besides that written
one of God, another of his servant, nature, that universal and publick
manuscript, that lies expansed unto the eyes of all. Those that never saw him
in the one have discovered him in the other; this was the scripture
and theology of the heathens; the natural motion of the sun made them
more admire him than its supernatural station did the children of
Israel.

The ordinary effects of nature wrought more admiration in them than,
in the other, all his miracles.

Surely the heathens knew better how to join and read these mystical
letters than we Christians, who cast a more careless eye on these
common hiero- glyphics, and disdain to suck divinity from the flowers
of nature.

Nor do I so forget God as to adore the name of nature; which I define not, with the schools,
to be the principle of motion and rest, but that straight and regular line, that settled and constant
course the wisdom of God hath ordained the actions of his creatures, accord- ing to their several kinds.
To make a revolution every day is the nature of the sun, because of that necessary course which God
hath ordained it, from which it cannot swerve but by a faculty from that voice which first did give it motion.
Now this course of nature God seldom alters or perverts; but, like an excellent artist, hath so
contrived his work, that, with the self-same instrument, without a new creation, he may effect his
obscurest designs. Thus he sweeteneth the water with a word, preserveth the creatures in the ark,
which the blest of his mouth might have as easily created;--for God is like a skilful geometrician,
who, when more easily, and with one stroke of his compass, he might describe or divide a right
line, had yet rather do this in a circle or longer way, according to the constituted and forelaid
principles of his art: yet this rule of his he doth some- times pervert, to acquaint the world with his
preroga- tive, lest the arrogancy of our reason should question his power, and conclude he could not.
And thus I call the effects of nature the works of God, whose hand
and instrument she only is; and therefore, to ascribe his actions
unto her is to devolve the honour of the prin- cipal agent upon the
instrument; which if with reason we may do, then let our hammers rise
up and boast they have built our houses, and our pens receive the
honour of our writing.

I hold there is a general beauty in the works of God, and therefore no deformity in any kind of
species of creature whatsoever. I cannot tell by what logick we call a toad, a bear, or an elephant
ugly; they being created in those outward shapes and figures which best express the actions of their inward
forms; and having passed that general visitation of God, who saw
that all that he had made was good, that is, conformable to his will,
which abhors deformity, and is the rule of order and beauty. There
is no deformity but in mon- strosity; wherein, notwithstanding, there
is a kind of beauty; nature so ingeniously contriving the irregular
part, as they become sometimes more remarkable than the principal
fabrick.

To speak yet more narrowly, there was never any thing ugly or mis-shapen, but the chaos; wherein,
notwithstanding, to speak strictly, there was no deformity, because no form; nor was it yet im- pregnant
by the voice of God. Now nature is not at variance with art, nor art with nature; they being both the
servants of his providence. To foreshow these is not prophecy, but
prog- nostication.

There is another way, full of meanders and labyrinths, whereof the devil and spirits have no exact ephemerides:
and that is a more particular and obscure method of his providence; directing the opera- tions of
individual and single essences: this we call fortune; that serpentine and crooked line, whereby
he draws those actions his wisdom intends in a more un- known and secret way; this cryptic<18> and
involved method of his providence have I ever admired; nor can I relate the history of my life,
the occurrences of my days, the escapes, or dangers, and hits of chance, with a <i>bezo las manos</i>
to Fortune, or a bare gramercy to my good stars. Abraham might have thought the ram in the thicket came thither
by accident: human reason would have said that mere chance conveyed Moses in the ark to the sight of Pharaoh's
daughter. What a labyrinth is there in the story of Joseph! able to con- vert a stoick. Surely
there are in every man's life certain rubs, doublings, and wrenches, which pass a while under
the effects of chance; but at the last, well examined, prove the mere hand of God. 'Twas not dumb chance
that, to discover the fougade,<19> or powder plot, contrived a miscarriage in the letter. I like the
victory of '88<20> the better for that one occurrence which our enemies imputed to our dishonour,
and the partiality of fortune; to wit, the tempests and contrariety of winds.
King Philip did not detract from the nation, when he said, he sent his
armada to fight with men, and not to combat with the winds. Where there
is a manifest disproportion between the powers and forces of two several
agents, upon a maxim of reason we may promise the victory to the superior:
but when unex- pected accidents slip in, and unthought-of occurrences intervene,
these must proceed from a power that owes no obedience to those axioms;
where, as in the writing upon the wall, we may behold the hand, but
see not the spring that moves it. The success of that petty province
of Holland (of which the Grand Seignior proudly said, if they should
trouble him, as they did the Spaniard, he would send his men with
shovels and pickaxes, and throw it into the sea) I cannot altogether
ascribe to the ingenuity and industry of the people, but the mercy
of God, that hath disposed them to such a thriving genius; and to
the will of his providence, that disposeth her favour to each country
in their preordinate season.

All cannot be happy at once; for, because the glory of one state depends upon the ruin of another, there
is a revolution and vicissitude of their greatness, and must obey the swing of that wheel, not moved
by intelligencies, but by the hand of God, whereby all estates arise to their zenith and vertical
points, accord- ing to their predestinated periods. For the lives, not only of men, but of commonwealths
and the whole world, run not upon a helix that still enlargeth; but on a circle, where, arriving to
their meridian, they decline in obscurity, and fall under the horizon again.

<i>Sect.</i> 18.--These must not therefore be named the effects of fortune
but in a relative way, and as we term the works of nature. It was the ignorance
of man's reason that begat this very name, and by a careless term
miscalled the providence of God: for there is no liberty for causes
to operate in a loose and straggling way; nor any effect whatsoever
but hath its warrant from some universal or superior cause.

'Tis not a ridiculous devotion to say a prayer before a game at tables; for, even in sortileges<21>
and matters of greatest uncertainty, there is a settled and preordered course of effects. It is
we that are blind, not fortune. Because our eye is too dim to discover the mystery
of her effects, we foolishly paint her blind, and hoodwink the pro-
vidence of the Almighty. I cannot justify that con- temptible proverb,
that "fools only are fortunate;" or that insolent paradox, that "a wise
man is out of the reach of fortune;" much less those opprobrious
epithets of poets,--"whore," "bawd," and "strumpet." 'Tis, I con- fess,
the common fate of men of singular gifts of mind, to be destitute
of those of fortune; which doth not any way deject the spirit of wiser
judgments who thoroughly understand the justice of this proceeding; and,
being enriched with higher donatives, cast a more careless eye on
these vulgar parts of felicity.

It is a most un- just ambition, to desire to engross the mercies
of the Almighty, not to be content with the goods of mind, without a
possession of those of body or fortune: and it is an error, worse than
heresy, to adore these com- plimental and circumstantial pieces of felicity,
and un- dervalue those perfections and essential points of happi- ness,
wherein we resemble our Maker. To wiser desires it is satisfaction enough to
deserve, though not to enjoy, the favours of fortune. Let providence
provide for fools: 'tis not partiality, but equity, in God, who deals
with us but as our natural parents. Those that are able of body and
mind he leaves to their deserts; to those of weaker merits he imparts
a larger portion; and pieces out the defect of one by the excess
of the other.

Thus
have we no just quarrel with nature for leaving us naked; or to envy
the horns, hoofs, skins, and furs of other creatures; being provided with
reason, that can supply them all. We need not labour, with so many
arguments, to con- fute judicial astrology; for, if there be a truth
therein, it doth not injure divinity. If to be born under Mer- cury disposeth
us to be witty; under Jupiter to be wealthy; I do not owe a knee
unto these, but unto that merciful hand that hath ordered my indifferent
and uncertain nativity unto such benevolous aspects.

Those that hold that all things are governed by fortune, had not erred, had they not persisted there.
The Romans, that erected a temple to Fortune, acknow- ledged therein, though in a blinder way, somewhat
of divinity; for, in a wise supputation,<22> all things begin and
end in the Almighty.

There is a nearer way to heaven than Homer's chain;<23> an easy logick may con- join a heaven
and earth in one argument, and, with less than a sorites,<24> resolve all things to God. For though
we christen effects by their most sensible and nearest causes, yet is God the true and infallible
cause of all; whose concourse, though it be general, yet doth it sub- divide itself into the particular
actions of every thing, and is that spirit, by which each singular essence not only subsists, but
performs its operation.

<i>Sect.</i> 19.--The bad construction and perverse com- ment on these
pair of second causes, or visible hands of God, have perverted the
devotion of many unto atheism; who, forgetting the honest advisoes
of faith, have lis- tened unto the conspiracy of passion and reason.

I have therefore always endeavoured to compose those feuds and angry dissensions between affection, faith,
and reason: for there is in our soul a kind of trium- virate, or triple
government of three competitors, which distracts the peace of this our
commonwealth not less than did that other<25> the state of Rome.

As reason is a rebel unto faith, so passion unto reason. As the propositions of faith seem absurd
unto reason, so the theorems of reason unto passion and both unto reason; yet a moderate and peaceable
discretion may so state and order the matter, that they may be all kings, and yet make but one
monarchy: every one exercising his sovereignty and prerogative in a due time and place, according
to the restraint and limit of circumstance. There are, as in philosophy, so in divinity, sturdy doubts,
and boisterous objections, wherewith the unhappiness of our knowledge
too nearly acquainteth us. More of these no man hath known than myself; which
I confess I conquered, not in a martial posture, but on my knees. For
our en- deavours are not only to combat with doubts, but always to dispute
with the devil. The villany of that spirit takes a hint of infidelity
from our studios; and, by demonstrating a naturality in one way,
makes us mistrust a miracle in another.

Thus, having perused the Archidoxes, and read the secret sympathies of things, he would dissuade
my belief from the miracle of the brazen serpent; make me conceit that image worked by sympathy,
and was but an Egyptian trick, to cure their diseases without a miracle. Again, having seen some experiments
of bitumen, and having read far more of naphtha, he whispered to my curiosity
the fire of the altar might be natural, and bade me mistrust a miracle
in Elias, when he intrenched the altar round with water: for that
inflamable substance yields not easily unto water, but flames in the
arms of its an- tagonist.

And thus would he inveigle my belief to think the combustion of Sodom might be natural, and that
there was an asphaltick and bituminous nature in that lake before the fire of Gomorrah. I know that
manna is now plentifully gathered in Calabria; and Josephus tells me, in his days it was as plentiful in
Arabia. The devil therefore made the query, "Where was then the miracle in the days of Moses?"
The Israelites saw but that, in his time, which the natives of those countries behold in ours. Thus the
devil played at chess with me, and, yielding a pawn, thought to gain a queen of me; taking advantage
of my honest endeavours; and, whilst I laboured to raise the struc- ture of my reason, he strove to undermine
the edifice of my faith.

<i>Sect.</i> 20.--Neither had these or any other ever such advantage
of me, as to incline me to any point of in- fidelity or desperate positions
of atheism; for I have been these many years of opinion there was
never any. Those that held religion was the difference of man from beasts,
have spoken probably, and proceed upon a prin- ciple as inductive
as the other.

That doctrine of Epicurus, that denied the providence of God, was no atheism, but a magnificent
and high-strained conceit of his majesty, which he deemed too sublime to mind the trivial actions of those inferior creatures. That fatal necessity
of the stoicks is nothing but the immutable law of his will. Those that heretofore denied
the divinity of the Holy Ghost have been condemned but as hereticks; and those
that now deny our Saviour, though more than hereticks, are not so much
as atheists: for, though they deny two persons in the Trinity, they
hold, as we do, there is but one God.

That villain and secretary of hell,<26> that composed that miscreant
piece of the three impostors, though divided from all religions, and neither
Jew, Turk, nor Christian, was not a positive atheist. I confess
every country hath its Machiavel, every age its Lucian, whereof common
heads must not hear, nor more advanced judgments too rashly venture
on.

It is the rhetorick of Satan; and may pervert a loose or prejudicate belief.

<i>Sect.</i> 21.--I confess I have perused them all, and can discover
nothing that may startle a discreet belief; yet are their heads carried
off with the wind and breath of such motives.

I remember
a doctor in physick, of Italy, who could not perfectly believe the immortality of the soul, because
Galen seemed to make a doubt thereof. With another I was familiarly acquainted, in France, a divine,
and a man of singular parts, that on the same point was so plunged and gravelled with three
lines of Seneca,* that all our antidotes, drawn from

* "Post mortem nihil est, ipsaque mors nihil, mors individua est noxia corpori, nec patiens animae.
. . . Toti morimur nullaque pars manet nostri." both Scripture and
philosophy, could not expel the poison of his error.

There are a set of heads that can credit the relations of mariners, yet question the testi- monies
of Saint Paul: and peremptorily maintain the traditions of AElian or Pliny; yet, in histories of Scrip-
ture, raise queries and objections: believing no more than they can parallel in human authors. I confess there
are, in Scripture, stories that do exceed the fables of poets, and, to a captious reader, sound like Gara-
gantua or Bevis. Search all the legends of times past, and the fabulous
conceits of these present, and 'twill be hard to find one that deserves to
carry the buckler unto Samson; yet is all this of an easy possibility, if we
con- ceive a divine concourse, or an influence from the little finger
of the Almighty. It is impossible that, either in the discourse of man
or in the infallible voice of God, to the weakness of our apprehensions
there should not appear irregularities, contradictions, and antino-
mies:<27> myself could show a catalogue of doubts, never yet imagined
nor questioned, as I know, which are not resolved at the first hearing;
not fantastick queries or objections of air; for I cannot hear of
atoms in divinity.

I can read the history of the pigeon that was sent out of the ark, and returned no more, yet not question how she
found out her mate that was left behind: that Lazarus was raised from the dead, yet not demand where, in the interim,
his soul awaited; or raise a law- case, whether his heir might lawfully detain his inherit- ance
bequeathed upon him by his death, and he, though restored to life, have no plea or title unto his former
possessions. Whether Eve was framed out of the left side of Adam, I dispute not; because I stand not
yet assured which is the right side of a man; or whether there be any such distinction in nature.
That she was edified out of the rib of Adam, I believe; yet raise no question who shall arise with that
rib at the resurrection. Whether Adam was an hermaphrodite, as the rabbins contend upon the letter
of the text; because it is con- trary to reason, there should be an hermaphrodite before there was a woman,
or a composition of two natures, before there was a second composed. Likewise, whether the world was created
in autumn, summer, or the spring; because it was created in them all:
for, whatsoever sign the sun possesseth, those four seasons are actually
existent.

It is the nature of this luminary to distinguish the several seasons of the year; all which
it makes at one time in the whole earth, and successively in any part
thereof. There are a bundle of curiosities, not only in philosophy, but
in divinity, proposed and discussed by men of most supposed abilities,
which indeed are not worthy our vacant hours, much less our serious
studies.

Pieces only fit to be placed in Pantagruel's library,<28> or bound up with Tartaratus, <i>De Modo Cacandi</i>.*<29>

<i>Sect.</i>
22.--These are niceties that become not those that peruse so serious a mystery. There are others more
generally questioned, and called to the bar, yet, methinks, of an easy and possible truth.

'Tis ridiculous to put off or down the general flood of Noah, in that particular inundation of Deucalion.<30>
That there was a deluge once seems not to me so great a miracle as that there is not one always.
How all the kinds of creatures, not only in their own bulks, but with a competency of food and sustenance,
might be preserved in one ark, and within the extent of three hundred
cubits, to a reason that rightly examines it, will appear very feasible.

There is another secret, not contained in the Scripture, which is more hard to com-

* In Rabelais.

prehend, and put the honest Father<31> to the refuge of a miracle; and that
is, not only how the distinct pieces of the world, and divided islands,
should be first planted by men, but inhabited by tigers, panthers,
and bears.

How America abounded with beasts of prey, and noxious animals, yet contained not in it that necessary
creature, a horse, is very strange. By what passage those, not only birds, but dangerous and unwelcome
beasts, come over. How there be creatures there (which are not found in this triple continent). All which
must needs be strange unto us, that hold but one ark; and that the creatures began their progress from the
mountains of Ararat. They who, to salve this, would make the deluge
particular, proceed upon a principle that I can no way grant; not only
upon the negative of Holy Scriptures, but of mine own reason, whereby
I can make it probable that the world was as well peopled in the time
of Noah as in ours; and fifteen hundred years, to people the world,
as full a time for them as four thousand years since have been to us.

There are other assertions and common tenets
drawn from Scripture, and generally believed as Scrip- ture, whereunto,
notwithstanding, I would never betray the liberty of my reason. 'Tis
a paradox to me, that Methusalem was the longest lived of all the children
of Adam; and no man will be able to prove it; when, from the process
of the text, I can manifest it may be otherwise.

That Judas perished by hanging himself, there is no certainty in Scripture:
though, in one place, it seems to affirm it, and, by a doubtful word, hath given
occasion to translate<32> it; yet, in another place, in a more punctual
description, it makes it im- probable, and seems to overthrow it.
That our fathers, after the flood, erected the tower of Babel, to preserve
themselves against a second deluge, is generally opin- ioned and
believed; yet is there another intention of theirs expressed in Scripture.

Besides, it is improbable, from the circumstance of the place; that is, a plain in the land of Shinar.
 Then are Christians like those that drink wine in bowls, merry and
glad; for that they have drank into the Spirit, and had their souls refreshed with the sweet
gales and strong wine thereof. This is called in another place, 'the communion of the Holy
Ghost' (2 Cor 13:14). Now he warmeth spirits, uniteth spirits, enlighteneth spirits; revives,
cherisheth, quickeneth, strengtheneth graces; renews assurances, brings old comforts to mind,
weakens lusts, emboldeneth and raiseth a spirit of faith, of love, of hope, of prayer, and
makes the Word a blessing, conference a blessing, meditation a blessing, and duty very delightful
to the soul. Heaven is for conquerors (Revelation 15:2,3; 17:14). It is the man who has gone down into the
tumult and uproar of the arena of life and fought and conquered in some good cause who tastes the
supreme cup of happiness. The master words of the Christ were, "fight," "watch," "pray"; here is
the entrance to the Utopia so long sought by men. The man who has no
control over his appetites, passions and temper, and who cannot endure
hardness in a service in which he is interested, can never know what
genuine joy is.

Read the roll call of the heroes in the eleventh chapter of Hebrews.

1.

A great object in view.

There can be no greater object than to serve Christ in all the relations of life (Matthew 6:33;
10:38; 8:22; 16:24; 19:21).

2. Harmony with the will of God (Matthew 6:10).

3. Endurance. (2 Timothy 2:1-3). It was this quality of endurance in service which Jesus sought
to set before His followers in the strongest
light (Matthew 10:22; 24:13).

Here then are the elements of the greatest human happiness and a divine joy.
It is only as the human heart is thus prepared for the reception of the
enlightenment of the Holy Spirit that He can be received in His glory,
which He desires to impart to men and to bring them into joyous fellowship
with the Father and the Son.

QUESTIONS

What is the call to service?
What is the object of the call? Where shall men serve the Christ?
How shall men serve the Christ in the heart, home, community, abroad?
What can be said of the urgency of the call to service? What is the
pattern of service? What can be said of personal work, training others
for service, teaching, works of mercy and love, suffering? What is
the joy of service? What can be said of the search for happiness? 'The gifts and calling of God are without
repentance' (Rom 11:29).

2. PURE is sometimes set in opposition to show or appearance; as where he says, 'the stars
are not pure' (Job 25:5). That is, not so without mixture of darkness, as they seem to be:
so again, 'If thou wert pure and upright' (Job 8:6): that is, as thou seemest to be, or as
thou wouldst have us believe thou art.

Now, take pure in this sense here, and then the meaning is, it is grace without deceit, without
guile; its show and its substance are the same; it has nothing but substance in it; it is indeed
what it seems to be in bulk; it is a river in show and a river indeed. Between the Testaments
this expectation expanded and robed itself with pomp and glory, so
that when the Christians came they found awaiting them a phrasing of
hope which they accepted to body forth their certainty of God's coming
sovereignty over all the earth. This expectation of coming triumph was not
progressive; it was cataclysmic.

It did not offer the prospect of great gains to be worked for over long periods of time; it
offered a divine invasion of history immediately at hand.

It was pictured, not in terms of human betterment to be achieved, but of divine action to be awaited.
The victory would suddenly come like the flood in Noah's day, like the lightning flashing from one
end of the heaven to the other, like a thief in the night.

To be sure, this eager expectation of a heavenly kingdom immediately
to arrive on earth soon grew dim among the Christians, and the reasons
are obvious.

For one thing, the Church herself, moving out from days of hardship to days of preferment and
prosperity, began to allure with her inviting prospects of growing power the enthusiasms and
hopes of the people, until not the suddenly appearing kingdom from the heavens, but the expanding
Church on earth became the center of Christian interest. For another
thing, Christ meant more to Christians than the inaugurator of a postponed
kingdom which, long awaited with ardent expectation, still did not
arrive; Christ was the giver of eternal life now.

More and more the emphasis shifted from what Christ would do for his people when he came upon
the clouds of heaven to what he was doing for them through his spiritual presence with them.
Even in the Fourth Gospel one finds this good news that Christ had already come again in the hearts
of his people insisted on in evident contrast with the apocalyptic hope literally conceived. For
another thing, dramatic hopes of a sudden invasion of the world are always the offspring of
desperate conditions. Only when people are hard put to it do they want history catastrophically stopped
in the midst of its course. The Book of Daniel must be explained by the tyrannies of Antiochus Epiphanes,
the Book of Revelation by the persecutions of Domitian, the present
recrudescence of pre-millennialism by the tragedy of the Great War.

In all these Greek and Roman, Hebrew and Christian contributions, which
flowed together and then flowed out into the medieval age, there
was no suggestion of a modern idea of progress, and in the medieval
age itself there was nothing to create a fresh phrasing of expectancy. It is a dangerous thing for a man to have the notions of grace, while his
heart is void of the spirit and holy principles of grace; for such a man can do no other than
abuse the grace of God. Alas, what can be expected of him that has nothing in him to teach
him to manage that knowledge of grace which he has, but his flesh, his lusts, and lustful passions?
Can these teach him to manage his knowledge well? Will they not rather put him upon all tricks,
evasions, irreligious consequences and conclusions, such as will serve to cherish sin? What
Judas did with Christ, that a graceless man will do with grace, even make it a stalking horse
to his fleshly and vile designs; and rather than fail betray both it, and the profession of
it, to the greatest enemies it has in the world.

And here I may say, though grace is pure, and not hurtful at all, yet one altogether carnal,
sinful, and graceless, having to do with the doctrine of it, by the force of his lusts which
tamper with it, he will unavoidably bring himself into the highest ruin thereby. An unwary
man may destroy himself by the best of things, not because there is in such things an aptness
to destroy, but because of the abuse and misuse of them. Some know the way of life, the water
of life, by knowledge that is naked and speculative only; and it had been better for such if
they had not known, than to know and turn from what they know; than to know, and make the knowledge
subservient to their lusts (2 Peter 2:20-22). Some receive the rain of God, and the droppings
of his clouds, because they continually sit under the means of his grace. But, alas! they receive
it as stones receive showers, or as dunghills receive the rain; they either abide as hard stones
still, or else return nothing to heaven for his mercy, but as the dunghills do, a company of
stinking fumes. These are they that drink in the rain that comes often upon them, and that
instead of bringing forth herbs meet for the dresser, bring forth briers and thorns; and these
are they who are nigh unto cursing, whose end is to be burned (Heb 6:7,8).

By this word PURE I understand sometimes the chiefest good, the highest good. There are many
things that may be called good, but none of them are good as grace is good. All things indeed
are pure, that is, all creatures in themselves are good and serviceable to man, but they are
not so good as grace (Rom 14:20; Gen 1:31). 'There is a generation that are pure,' that are
good in their own eyes (Prov 30:12). There are good men, good consciences, good works, good
days, good angels, &c., but none so good as grace, for it is grace that has made them so. Grace,
this water of life, therefore is good, superlatively good, good in the highest degree, for
that it makes all things good, and preserveth them good. And whatever it be that this water
of life washeth not, it is soil, and given to the curse, as the prophet intimates where he
saith, 'But the miry places thereof, and the marshes thereof, shall not be healed; they shall
be given to salt' (Eze 47:1).

But who understands this, who believes it? Its goodness is kept close from the fowls of the
air. Men, most men, are ignorant of the goodness of it, nor do they care to inquire after the
enjoyment of this pure, this good water of life. The reason is, because though it is good in
itself, good in the highest degree, and that which makes all things good, yet it is not such
a good as is suited to a carnal appetite. There is good; and there is suitable good. Now suitable
good is of two sorts: either such as is spiritual, or such as is temporal. That which is spiritual,
is desired only of them that are spiritual; for temporal good will satisfy a carnal mind. Now
grace is a spiritual good; this river of grace is the goodness of spiritual good. It is the
original life of all the grace in our souls. No marvel, then, if it be so little set by of
those that are carnally minded. They will serve a horse, and mire will serve a sow; so things
of this life suit best with the men of this world; for their appetite is gross and carnal,
and they savour not the things that be of the Spirit of God. 'The natural man receiveth not
the things of the Spirit of God,' the things that be of this river of God; 'for they are foolishness
unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned' (1 Cor 2:14). This
is the river of OIL which the prophet speaks of, the river of SPIRIT. Were it a river of gold
and silver, there would be old fishing on the banks thereof. But it is a river that runs 'like
oil, saith the Lord God' (Eze 32:14). This rock pours us out 'rivers of oil' (Job 29:6)--'fresh
oil' (Psa 92:10)--'soft oil' (Psa 55:21)--'the oil of joy' (Isa 61:3)--'the oil of gladness'
(Psa 45:7)--oil to anoint the head withal (Eccl 9:8)--oil to make the face to shine (Psa 104:15)--oil
by which thou wilt be made able to honour both God and man in some good measure as becomes
thee (Judg 9:9).

I might have enlarged upon this head, and have showed you many more particulars wherein this
term of pure might serve for the better setting forth of the excellency of this water of life,
but I shall proceed no further upon this, but will come to that which remains.

[Second. The clearness of this water of life.]

As this river of water of life is said to be pure, so it is said to be CLEAR. 'He shewed me
a pure river of water of life, clear.' This term has also its particular signification, and,
therefore, ought to be heeded.

1. CLEAR is set in opposition to dark; therefore some are said to be 'clear as the sun' (Cant
6:10). And again, 'the light shall not be clear nor dark' (Zech 14:6). In both these places,
clear is to be taken for light, daylight, sunlight; for, indeed, it is never day nor sunshine
with the soul, until the streams of this river of water of life come gliding to our doors,
into our houses, into our hearts. Hence the beginning of conversion is called illumination
(Heb 10:32). Yea, the coming of this river of water of life unto us is called the day-spring
from on high, through the tender mercy of our God (Luke 1:78). It is also called the dawning
of the day (2 Peter 1:19). And hence, again, these men unto whom this river of water of life
comes not, are said to be dark, darkness. 'Ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light
in the Lord' (Eph 5:8). Wherefore, this water is like Jonathan's honey; it hath a faculty to
open the eyes, to make them that sit in darkness see a great light (1 Sam 14:27; Matt 4:16).
This river casteth beams where it goes, like the beams of the sun; it shines, it casts out
rays of glory unto those that drink thereof. The streams of this grace were they that overtook
Saul when he was going to Damascus; they were the waters of this flood that compassed him round
about.

2. CLEAR is set in opposition to that which is not pleasing. For to be clear is to be pleasant.
I read of rivers that looked red as blood, that stank like the blood of a dead man, but this
is no such river (Exo 7:19,20; 2 Kings 3:22,23). I read of rivers whose streams are like streams
of brimstone, fiery streams, streams of burning pitch, but this is none of them (Isa 30:27-33;
David 7:9-11; Isa 34:9). 

Writing to relatives at home in England, under date of January 16th, 1860, I thus expressed the
deep longing of our hearts:--

Do you know any earnest, devoted young men desirous of serving GOD
in China, who--not wishing for more than their actual support--would
be willing to come out and labour here?

Oh, for four or five such helpers! They
would probably begin to preach in Chinese in six months time; and in
answer to prayer the necessary means for their support would be found.

But

no one came to help us then; and under the incessant physical and mental strain involved, in the
care of the hospital during Dr. Parker's absence, as well as the
continued discharge of my other missionary duties, my own health began
rapidly to fail, and it became a serious question as to whether it would
not be needful to return to England for a time.

It was hard to face this possibility. The growing church and work seemed
to need our presence, and it was no small trial to part from those whom we had
learned so truly to love in the LORD. Thirty or forty native Christians
had been gathered into the recently organised church; and the well-filled meetings,
and the warm-hearted earnestness of the converts, all bespoke a future
of much promise.

At last, however, completely prostrated by repeated attacks of illness,
the only hope of restoration seemed to lie in a voyage to England
and a brief stay in its more bracing climate; and this necessity,
painful though it seemed at the time, proved to be only another opportunity
for the manifestation of the faithfulness and loving care of Him "who
worketh all things after the counsel of His own will."

As heretofore, the LORD was present with His aid. The means for our journey were supplied, and that
so liberally that we were able to bring with us a native Christian to assist in translation or other literary
work, and to instruct in the language such helpers as the LORD might raise up for the extension
of the Mission. That He would give us fellow-labourers we had no doubt; for we had been enabled to seek them
from Him in earnest and believing prayer for many months previously.

The day before leaving China we wrote as follows to our friend W.
T. Berger, Esq., whom we had known in England, and who had ever strengthened
our hands in the LORD while in that distant land:--

"We are bringing
with us a young Chinese brother to assist in literary work, and I
hope also in teaching the dialect to those whom the LORD may induce
to return with us."

And throughout the voyage our earnest cry to GOD was that He would overrule our stay at home for good to
China, and make it instrumental in raising up at least five helpers to labour in the province of CHEH-KIANG.

The
way in which it pleased the LORD to answer these earnest and believing
prayers, and the "exceeding abundantly" with which He crowned them,
we shall now sketch in brief outline.

CHAPTER XVIII

A NEW AGENCY NEEDED

"My
thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways My ways, saith the LORD. When the LORD is bringing
in great blessing in the best possible way, how oftentimes our unbelieving
hearts are feeling, if not saying, like Jacob of old, "All these things
are against me." Or we are filled with fear, as were the disciples when
the LORD, walking on the waters, drew near to quiet the troubled
sea, and to bring them quickly to their desired haven.

And yet mere common-sense ought to tell us that He, whose way is perfect, can make no mistakes;
that He who has promised to "perfect that which concerneth" us, and whose minute care counts the very
hairs of our heads, and forms for us our circumstances, must know
better than we the way to forward our truest interests and to glorify
His own Name.

To me it seemed a great calamity that failure of health compelled
my relinquishing work for GOD in China, just when it was more fruitful
than ever before; and to leave the little band of Christians in Ningpo,
needing much care and teaching, was a great sorrow.

Nor was the sorrow lessened when, on reaching England, medical testimony
assured me that return to China, at least for years to come, was impossible.
Little did I then realise that the long separation from China was
a necessary step towards the formation of a work which GOD would
bless as He has blessed the CHINA INLAND MISSION.

While in the field, the pressure of claims immediately around me was so great that I could
not think much of the still greater needs of the regions farther inland; and, if they were thought of, could
do nothing for them. But while detained for some years in England, daily viewing the whole country on the
large map on the wall of my study, I was as near to the vast regions of Inland China as to the smaller
districts in which I had laboured personally for GOD; and prayer was often the only resource by which
the burdened heart could gain any relief.

As a long absence from China appeared inevitable, the next question was how best to serve China
while in England, and this led to my engaging for several years, with
the late Rev. F. F. Gough of the C. M. S., in the revision of a version
of the New Testament in the colloquial of Ningpo for the British and
Foreign Bible Society.

In undertaking this work, in my short-sightedness I saw nothing beyond
the use that the Book, and the marginal references, would be to the native
Christians; but I have often seen since that, without those months of feeding
and feasting on the Word of GOD, I should have been quite unprepared
to form, on its present basis, a mission like the CHINA INLAND MISSION.

In

the study of that Divine Word I learned that, to obtain successful labourers, not elaborate appeals
for help, but, first, earnest prayer to GOD to thrust forth labourers, and, second, the deepening of the
spiritual life of the church, so that men should be unable to stay at home,
were what was needed.

In the meantime the prayer for workers for CHEH-KIANG was being answered. The first, Mr. Meadows, sailed
for China with his young wife in January 1862, through the kind co-operation
and aid of our friend Mr. Berger.

The second
left England in 1864, having her passage provided by the Foreign Evangelisation Society. The third and fourth
reached Ningpo on July 24th, 1865. A fifth soon followed them, reaching Ningpo in September 1865. Thus
the prayer for the five workers was fully answered; and we were encouraged to look to GOD for still
greater things.

Months of earnest prayer and not a few abortive efforts had resulted
in a deep conviction that a special agency was essential for the evangelisation
of Inland China.

At this time I had not only the daily help of prayer and conference with my beloved friend and fellow-worker
the late Rev. F. F. Gough, but also invaluable aid and counsel from Mr. and Mrs. Berger,
with whom I and my dear wife (whose judgment and piety were of priceless value at this juncture)
spent many days in prayerful deliberation. The grave difficulty of possibly interfering with existing
missionary operations at home was foreseen; but it was concluded that, by
simple trust in GOD, suitable agency might be raised up and sustained
without interfering injuriously with any existing work. I had also
a growing conviction that GOD would have me to seek from Him the needed
workers, and to go forth with them. But for a long time unbelief hindered
my taking the first step.

How inconsistent unbelief always is! I had no doubt that, if I prayed
for workers, "in the Name" of the LORD JESUS CHRIST, they would be
given me. I had no doubt that, in answer to such prayer, the means
for our going forth would be provided, and that doors would be opened
before us in unreached parts of the Empire.

But I had not then learned to trust GOD for keeping power and grace for myself, so no wonder that I could not
trust Him to keep others who might be prepared to go with me. I feared that in
the midst of the dangers, difficulties, and trials which would necessarily
be connected with such a work, some who were comparatively inexperienced
Christians might break down, and bitterly reproach me for having
encouraged them to undertake an enterprise for which they were unequal.

Yet,

what was I to do? The feeling of blood-guiltiness became more and more
intense. Simply because I refused to ask for them, the labourers did not come
forward--did not go out to China--and every day tens of thousands were
passing away to Christless graves! Perishing China so filled my heart and
mind that there was no rest by day, and little sleep by night, till
health broke down. At the invitation of my beloved and honoured friend, Mr.
George Pearse (then of the Stock Exchange), I went to spend a few
days with him in Brighton.

On Sunday, June 25th, 1865, unable to bear the sight of a congregation of a thousand or more
Christian people rejoicing in their own security, while millions were perishing for lack of
knowledge, I wandered out on the sands alone, in great spiritual agony; and there the LORD conquered
my unbelief, and I surrendered myself to GOD for this service. I told Him that all the responsibility
as to issues and consequences must rest with Him; that as His servant, it was mine to obey and to follow
Him--His, to direct, to care for, and to guide me and those who might labour with me. Need
I say that peace at once flowed into my burdened heart? There and then I asked Him for twenty-four fellow-workers,
two for each of eleven inland provinces which were without a missionary,
and two for Mongolia; and writing the petition on the margin of the
Bible I had with me, I returned home with a heart enjoying rest such
as it had been a stranger to for months, and with an assurance that
the LORD would bless His own work and that I should share in the blessing.

I had previously prayed, and asked prayer, that workers might be raised
up for the eleven then unoccupied provinces, and thrust forth and
provided for, but had not surrendered myself to be their leader.

About this time, with the help of my dear wife, I wrote the little book, China's Spiritual Need and Claims.
Every paragraph was steeped in prayer. With the help of Mr. Berger, who had given valued aid in the revision
of the manuscript, and who bore the expense of printing an edition
of 3000 copies, they were soon put in circulation. I spoke publicly of
the proposed work as opportunity permitted, specially at the Perth and
Mildmay Conferences of 1865, and continued in prayer for fellow-workers,
who were soon raised up, and after due correspondence were invited to my
home, then in the East of London.

When one house became insufficient, the occupant of the adjoining
house removed, and I was able to rent it; and when that in its turn
became insufficient, further accommodation was provided close by.

Soon there were a number of men and women under preparatory training, and engaging in evangelistic
work which tested in some measure their qualifications as soul-winners.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] Isaiah lv. 8, 9.

CHAPTER XIX

THE FORMATION OF THE C. I. M.

IT was thus that in the year 1865 the CHINA INLAND MISSION was organised; and the workers
already in the field were incorporated into it. W. T. Berger, Esq., then residing at Saint Hill, near
East Grinstead, without whose help and encouragement I could not have gone
forward, undertook the direction of the home department of the work during my anticipated
absence in China; and I proposed, as soon as arrangements could be completed,
to go out with the volunteers and take the direction of the work
in the field.

For the support of the workers already in China, our friends at home were sending in unsolicited
contributions from time to time, and every need was met.

We had now, however, to look forward to the outgoing of a party of sixteen
or seventeen, and estimated that from £1500 to £2000 might be required
to cover outfits, passage-money, and initial expenses. I wrote a little
pamphlet, calling it "Occasional Paper, No. I."

(intending in successive numbers to give to donors and friends accounts of the work wrought through
us in China), and in that paper stated the anticipated needs for floating the enterprise. I expected
that GOD would incline the hearts of some of the readers to send
contributions: I had determined never to use personal solicitation,
or to make collections, or to issue collecting-books.

Missionary-boxes were thought unobjectionable, and we had a few prepared for those who might ask for
them, and have continued to use them ever since.

It was February 6th, 1866, when I sent my manuscript of "Occasional
Paper, No. I.," with a design for the cover, to the printer.

From delays in engraving and printing, it was March 12th when the bales of pamphlets were delivered
at my house. Now on February 6th a daily prayer-meeting, from 12 to 1 o'clock, had been commenced,
to ask for the needed funds. And that we had not asked in vain, the following extract from "Occasional
Paper, No. II." will show:--

"The receipts for 1864 were £51:14s.; for 1865, from January to June, £221:12:6,
besides two free passages; from June to December, £923:12:8. Hindrances
having occurred, the MS. of the "Occasional Paper, No. I." was not completed
till February 6th, 1866.

Up to this time we had received (from December 30th) £170:8:3.

"We felt much encouraged by the receipt of so much money in little more than
a month, as it was entirely unsolicited by us--save from GOD.

But it was also evident that we must ask the LORD to do yet greater
things for us, or it would be impossible for a party of from ten
to sixteen to leave in the middle of May.

Daily united prayer was therefore offered to GOD for the funds needful
for the outfits and passages of as many as He would have to go out
in May.

"Owing to the delays mentioned above in the printing of the 'Occasional Paper,' it was not ready
for the publisher until March 12th. On this day I again examined my mission cash-book, and the comparison
of the result of the two similar periods of one month and six days each, one before and one
after special prayer for £1500 to £2000, was very striking:--

"Receipts from December 30th to February 6th, £170 8 3 " Feb. 6th
to Mar. 12th £1774 5 11 "Funds advised, since received 200 0 0 ---------
£1974 5 11

"This, it will be noticed, was previous to the circulation
of the 'Occasional Paper,' and, consequently, was not the result of
it.

It was the response of a faithful GOD to the united prayers of those whom He had called to serve Him
in the Gospel of His dear SON.

"We can now compare with these two periods a third of the same extent.
From March 12th to April 18th the receipts were £529, showing that
when GOD had supplied the special need, the special supply also
ceased.

Truly there is a LIVING GOD, and HE is the hearer and answerer of prayer."

But this gracious answer to prayer made it a little difficult to circulate "Occasional Paper, No. I.,"
for it stated as a need that which was already supplied.

The difficulty was obviated by the issue with each copy of a coloured
inset stating that the funds for outfit and passage were already in
hand in answer to prayer. We were reminded of the difficulty of Moses--not
a very common one in the present day--and of the proclamation he had
to send through the camp to the people to prepare no more for the
building of the Tabernacle, as the gifts in hand were already too
much.

We are convinced that if there were less solicitation for money and more dependence upon the power
of the HOLY GHOST and upon the deepening of spiritual life, the experience of Moses would be a common
one in every branch of Christian work.

Preparations for sailing to China were at once proceeded with.

About this time I was asked to give a lecture on China in a village not very far from London, and
agreed to do so on condition that there should be no collection,
and that this should be announced on the bills. The gentleman who invited
me, and who kindly presided as chairman, said he had never had that
condition imposed before.

He accepted it, however, and the bills were issued accordingly for the 2nd or 3rd of May. With the
aid of a large map, something of the extent and population and deep
spiritual need of China was presented, and many were evidently impressed.

At
the close of the meeting the chairman said that by my request it had been
intimated on the bills that there would be no collection; but he felt that
many present would be distressed and burdened if they had not the
opportunity of contributing something towards the good work proposed.

He trusted that as the proposition emanated entirely from himself, and expressed, he felt sure, the feelings
of many in the audience, I should not object to it. I begged, however,
that the condition agreed to might be carried out; pointing out among
other reasons for making no collection, that the very reason adduced
by our kind chairman was, to my mind, one of the strongest for not
making it.

My wish was, not that those present should be relieved by making such contribution as might there
and then be convenient, under the influence of a present emotion; but that each one should go home burdened with
the deep need of China, and ask of GOD what He would have them to do. If, after thought and prayer, they were
satisfied that a pecuniary contribution was what He wanted of them,
it could be given to any Missionary Society having agents in China;
or it might be posted to our London office; but that perhaps in many
cases what GOD wanted was not a money contribution, but personal consecration
to His service abroad; or the giving up of son or daughter--more precious
than silver or gold--to His service.

I added that I thought the tendency of a collection was to leave the impression that the all-important thing
was money, whereas no amount of money could convert a single soul;
that what was needed was that men and women filled with the HOLY
GHOST should give themselves to the work: for the support of such
there would never be a lack of funds.

As my wish was evidently very strong, the chairman kindly yielded to it, and closed the meeting.
He told me, however, at the supper-table, that he thought it was a mistake on my part, and that,
notwithstanding all I had said, a few persons had put some little contributions into his hands.

Next morning at breakfast, my kind host came in a little late, and acknowledged
to not having had a very good night.

After breakfast he asked me to his study, and giving me the contributions handed to him the night before,
said, "I thought last night, Mr. Taylor, that you were in the wrong
about a collection; I am now convinced you were quite right. As I thought in
the night of that stream of souls in China ever passing onward into
the dark, I could only cry as you suggested, 'LORD, what wilt Thou
have me to do?' I think I have obtained the guidance I sought, and
here it is."

He handed me a cheque for £500, adding that if there had been a collection he would have given a few pounds
to it, but now this cheque was the result of having spent no small part of the night in prayer.

I need scarcely say how surprised and thankful I was for this gift.

I had received at the breakfast-table a letter from Messrs. Killick, Martin and Co., shipping
agents, in which they stated that they could offer us the whole passenger
accommodation of the ship Lammermuir.

I went direct to the ship, found it in every way suitable, and paid
the cheque on account.

As above stated, the funds deemed needed had been already in hand for some time; but the coincidence
of the simultaneous offer of the ship accommodation and this munificent gift--GOD'S "exceeding abundantly"--greatly
encouraged my heart.

On the 26th of May we sailed for China in the
Lammermuir, a missionary party of 16 (besides my four children and
their nurse, and Miss Bausum (afterwards Mrs. Barchet)); in all 22
passengers. Mr. Berger took charge of the home department, and thus
the C. I. M. was fully inaugurated.

CHAPTER XX

THE MISSION IN 1894

THE
events sketched in the last two chapters have been more fully delineated
by Miss Guinness in her interesting Story of the China Inland Mission,
which continues its history to the present date. Nothing has been more common to many than to doubt of the grace of God; a thing
most unbecoming a sinner of any thing in the world. His agony of spirit began again. All his faults,
all his old stains came once more to his mind, and he grew furious against his cowardly feebleness
as he felt how much he still clung to them.

Oh,
to tear himself free from all these miseries--to finish with them once for all!... Suddenly he
sprang up. It was as if a gust of the tempest had struck him. He rushed to the end of the garden, flung
himself on his knees under a fig-tree, and with his forehead pressed
against the earth he burst into tears. There is, as I said, enough therein to help thee, for grace brings all that is wanting
to the soul. Thou, therefore, hast nothing to do, I mean as to the curing of thy soul of its
doubts, and fears, and despairing thoughts, but to drink and live for ever.

SIXTH. But what is all this to the DEAD world--to them that love to be dead? They toss their
vanities about as the boys toss their shuttlecocks in the air, till their foot slips, and themselves
descend into the pit.

Let this suffice for this time.

FOOTNOTES:

1 As God gave us existence, so, in his munificence and royal bounty, he gives us his rich grace.
We have nothing to give in return but grateful love. He redeems us from the captivity of sin,
and earth, and hell. 'Every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills:
the world is mine, saith the Almighty, with the fulness thereof.' O to grace how great a debtor;
freely bestowed to the poor and needy.--Ed.

2 Water is a curse, as in the dropsy, but essential to life with our food. Oil is valuable,
properly taken, but an irritating oil to consume the bones is destructive. How awful the case
of the rich man when refused a drop of water to cool that fire which he had created while living,
and into which he had irretrievably plunged himself.--Ed. 

His wife recalled the plunder of Patrick, and told Daire that the cause of his death was the
attack on Patrick. She sent messengers to beg prayer-water for Daire from Patrick. Patrick said: "Only
for what the woman has done, there would never be any resurrection from death for Daire." Patrick
blessed the water, and gave it to the servants, with orders to have
it sprinkled over the horses and over Daire.

They did so, and immediately they all returned from death. A brazen caldron was brought to Patrick
as an offering from Daire. "Deo gratias," said Patrick. Daire asked his servants what Patrick
said. They answered, "Gratzicum." "This is little reward for a good offering and a good caldron,"
said Daire.

He ordered his cauldron to be brought to him. "Deo gratias," said Patrick. Daire asked what Patrick
said when they were bringing the caldron from him.

The servants answered: "It was the same thing he said when we were bringing it away from him--Gratzicum."
"This is a good word with them, this Gratzicum," said Daire; "Gratzicum when giving it to
him, and Gratzicum when taking it away from him." Daire and his wife then went with his submission
to Patrick, and gave Patrick the caldron willingly back again, and
the hill which he before asked; and Patrick accepted and blessed them,
and founded a church in that place called Ard-Macha.

Patrick and his divines, and Daire, with the nobles of Airther besides, came to the hill to mark
out its boundaries, and to bless it, and consecrate it. They found a doe, with its fawn, in the
place where the Sabhall is to-day, and his people went to kill it. Prohibuit Patricius, et
dixit, "Serviat sibi postea," and sent it out of the hill northward,
to the place where Telac-na-licce is to-day, ibi magna mirabilia
fecit.

Daire's daughter loved the person Benen; sweet to her was the sound of his voice in chanting.
Disease seized her, so that she died of it. Benen carried cretra to her from Patrick, and she
suddenly afterwards arose alive, and loved him spiritually.

She is Ercnait, the daughter of Daire, who is in Tamlaght-bo.

One time there came nine daughters of the King of the Longbards and
the daughter of the King of Britain on a pilgrimage to Patrick; they
stopped at the east side of Ard-Macha, where Coll-na-ningean is to-day.

There came messengers from them to Patrick to know if they should proceed
to him.

Patrick said to the messengers that three of the maidens would go to heaven, and in that place
(i.e., Coll-na-ningean) their sepulchre is. "And let the other maidens
go to Druim-fenneda, and let one of them proceed as far as that hill
in the east."

And so it was done.

Cruimthir went afterwards, and occupied Cengobd; and Benen used to carry fragments of
food to her every night from Patrick.

And Patrick planted an apple-tree in Achadh-na-elti, which he took from the fort, in the
north of the place--i.e., Cengoba; and hence the place is called
Abhall-Patrick, in Cengoba.

It was the milk of this doe, moreover, that used to be given to the lap-dog that was near the
maiden--i.e., Cruimthir.

Another time, when Patrick was at rest in the end of night, at Tiprad-Cernai,
in Tir-Tipraid, the angel went to him and awoke him.

Patrick said to him: "Is there anything in which I have offended God, or is His anger upon
me?" "No," said the angel; "and you are informed from God," added the
angel, "if it is it you desire, that there shall be no share for any
else in Eriu, but for you alone.

And the extent of the termon of your see from God is to Droma-Bregh, and to Sliabh-Mis, and to Bri-Airghi."
Patrick replied: "My debroth, truly," said Patrick, "sons of life
will come after me, and I wish they may have honor from God in the
country after me."

The angel responded: "That is manifest.

And God gave all Eriu to you," said the angel, "and every noble that will
be in Eriu shall belong to you." "Deo gratias," said Patrick.

Patrick was enraged against his sister--i.e., Lupait--for committing
the sin of adultery, so that she was pregnant in consequence. When
Patrick came into the church from the eastern side, Lupait went to
meet him, until she prostrated herself before the chariot, in the
place where the cross is in Both-Archall. 1570, p. 42. In the Editor's library.--Ed.

19 The infatuation, nay, madness of human nature, in its fallen state, is shown by living to
hasten the inroads of death; and when he appears, terror-stricken they fly from it to any remedy
that is within their reach. How vast the number of suicides by intemperance!--Ed.

20 The real Christian, and such only, are in this blessed case; they have the promise of the
life that now is, as well as of that which is to come. Whence the ascription of glory to God in the
highest, and why do the courts above resound with a new song of praise
to God for his redeeming mercy, if this redemption was effected by
the labours and sufferings of one inferior to the Deity?

Was such a dispensation as that of Moses, designed simply to prepare the way for a messenger
of God to declare his will, and to seal the testimony with his blood, as many good men have
done, both before and since? Why did patriarchs and prophets foretell his coming, and celebrate
his praises?--Why did the continual offering of divinely appointed sacrifices, for many centuries,
typify his sufferings?--And why did nature shudder, and shroud herself in darkness, at the consummation
of those sufferings? All these things are utterly inexplicable, on
the supposition that Christ is a created dependent being.

But view him as God manifest in the flesh--view him as voluntarily laying
aside his glory, and descending from the throne of infinite majesty,
to assume the nature, and expiate the guilt of a ruined race;--and
we are struck with the appropriateness of all the attending circumstances.

The splendid ceremonials of the Jewish ritual, and the raptured songs
of prophets and of angels were well employed to prepare the way for
the visible manifestation of Deity among men.

The annunciation of the divine nature of the Redeemer must, therefore,
be an essential part of the preaching of the cross. Although we have sought with all possible diligence, no copy of the first edition
has been discovered; we have made use of a fine copy of the second edition, in possession of
that thorough Bunyanite, my kind friend, R. B. Sherring, of Bristol. The third edition, 1692,
is in the British Museum. It was down in Rhode Island, out a bit from Providence. He was a farmer,
an old man. He had become a Christian late in life, and this evening was telling about his start.
He had been a rough, bad man. He said that when he became a Christian even the cat knew that
some change had taken place. That caught my ear. It had a genuine ring. It seemed prophetic
of the better day coming for all the lower animal creation. So I
listened.

He said that the next morning after the change of purpose he was going down
to the village a little distance from his farm. He swung along the
road, happy in heart, singing softly to himself, and thinking about
the Saviour. All at once he could feel the fumes coming out of a saloon
ahead. His reasons are given at some length, concluding with,
'it is evident that Bunyan never wrote this piece.'[1] Why it was, after Bunyan's death, published
with his 'Barren Fig-tree,' is one of those hidden mysteries of darkness and of wickedness
that I cannot discover. The beautiful parable from which Bunyan selected his text, represents
an enclosed ground, in which, among others, a fig-tree had been planted. It was not an enclosure
similar to some of the vineyards of France or Germany, exclusively devoted to the growth of
the vine, but a garden in which fruits were cultivated, such as grapes, figs, or pomegranates.
It was in such a vineyard, thus retired from the world, that Nathaniel poured out his heart
in prayer, when our Lord in spirit witnessed, unseen, these devotional exercises, and soon
afterwards rewarded him with open approbation (John 1:48). And who can tell, but that God, who is rich in wisdom, may thus employ
the simplest means for collecting, condensing, and reflecting rays
of sacred truth, in the form of practical results, which may carry
conviction and saving instruction to uncounted millions--not merely
in our own land, but in more populous countries, where the importance
of experimental religion is not appreciated?

But, for rendering such a work pre-eminently useful, or even commencing
it, there must be union of effort.

As it is intended to consist wholly of original matter, and that of a specific
character, such as no genius can originate, it is obvious that it cannot
be commenced, without being furnished with numerous pledges of supplies.
And it will be important to have a considerable number of communications
on hand, at the commencement, as well as afterwards, that due regard
may be had to order in the arrangement of subjects, and an interesting
variety be presented in every Number.

It will not be necessary to publish the names of writers, nor of individuals alluded to in communications;
though in many cases it may be desirable and expedient. But, in every case, the name of the writer,
or some respectable reference for attesting the accuracy of statements,
must be furnished to the Editor; as he must be responsible to the
public for the correctness of whatever may appear in the work.

He will moreover
think it his duty to present Contributors a generous compensation.

MINISTERS, of different Christian denominations, willing to aid in
executing the design, are affectionately requested to write as soon
as practicable--either furnishing matter for publication, or stating
definitely, when and how much aid may be expected. 16.]

[Footnote 175: That is a fundamental idea and in fact the outstanding feature of the treatise "de unitate."
The heretics and schismatics lack love, whereas the unity of the
Church is the product of love, this being the main Christian virtue. This terse sentence gives a correct idea of the practice of secret negotiators. With
regard, then, to State secrets, we remark that real statesmen do not endeavor to cover up their doings
in the dark, and that the practices of diplomatists, and the reputation they have for duplicity, are not
such as should encourage individuals or associations to endeavor
to conceal their proceedings. We see nothing in the fact that there
may be secrets of State to justify studied and habitual secrecy either in
individuals or associations.

2. The impropriety of habitual concealment may be further illustrated. An
individual who endeavors to conceal the business in which he is engaged,
or the place and mode of carrying it on, exposes himself to the suspicion
of his fellow-men.

Now 'they count it pleasure to riot in the daytime.' But what will they do when the axe is
fetched out? (2 Peter 2:13,14).

The tree whose fruit withereth is reckoned a tree without fruit, a tree twice dead, one that
must be 'plucked up by the roots' (Jude 12).

O thou cumber-ground, God expects fruit, God will come seeking fruit shortly. 

His wife recalled the plunder of Patrick, and told Daire that the
cause of his death was the attack on Patrick.

She sent messengers to beg prayer-water for Daire from Patrick. Patrick
said: "Only for what the woman has done, there would never be any resurrection
from death for Daire." Patrick blessed the water, and gave it to the
servants, with orders to have it sprinkled over the horses and over
Daire.

They did so, and immediately they all returned from death.

A brazen caldron was brought to Patrick as an offering from Daire. "Deo gratias," said Patrick. Daire asked
his servants what Patrick said. They answered, "Gratzicum." "This is little reward for a good offering
and a good caldron," said Daire. He ordered his cauldron to be brought to him. "Deo gratias,"
said Patrick. Daire asked what Patrick said when they were bringing
the caldron from him.

The servants answered: "It was the same thing he said when we were bringing it away from him--Gratzicum."
"This is a good word with them, this Gratzicum," said Daire; "Gratzicum
when giving it to him, and Gratzicum when taking it away from him."

Daire and his wife then went with his submission to Patrick, and gave Patrick the caldron willingly
back again, and the hill which he before asked; and Patrick accepted and blessed them, and founded
a church in that place called Ard-Macha. Patrick and his divines, and Daire, with the nobles of Airther
besides, came to the hill to mark out its boundaries, and to bless
it, and consecrate it.

They found a doe, with its fawn, in the place where the Sabhall is to-day,
and his people went to kill it.

Prohibuit Patricius, et dixit, "Serviat sibi postea," and sent it
out of the hill northward, to the place where Telac-na-licce is to-day,
ibi magna mirabilia fecit.

Daire's daughter loved the person Benen; sweet to her was the sound of
his voice in chanting.

Disease seized her, so that she died of it. Benen carried cretra to her from Patrick, and she
suddenly afterwards arose alive, and loved him spiritually. She is Ercnait, the daughter of Daire, who is
in Tamlaght-bo.

One time there came nine daughters of the King of the Longbards and
the daughter of the King of Britain on a pilgrimage to Patrick; they
stopped at the east side of Ard-Macha, where Coll-na-ningean is to-day.

There came messengers from them to Patrick to know if they should proceed to him. Patrick said to the
messengers that three of the maidens would go to heaven, and in that
place (i.e., Coll-na-ningean) their sepulchre is.

"And let the other maidens go to Druim-fenneda, and let one of them proceed as far as that hill
in the east." And so it was done.

Cruimthir went afterwards, and occupied Cengobd; and Benen used to carry fragments of food to
her every night from Patrick.

And Patrick planted an apple-tree in Achadh-na-elti, which he took from the fort,
in the north of the place--i.e., Cengoba; and hence the place is
called Abhall-Patrick, in Cengoba.

It was the milk of this doe, moreover, that used to be given to the lap-dog that was near the maiden--i.e.,
Cruimthir.

Another time, when Patrick was at rest in the end of night, at Tiprad-Cernai, in Tir-Tipraid, the angel went
to him and awoke him. Patrick said to him: "Is there anything in which I have offended God,
or is His anger upon me?" "No," said the angel; "and you are informed from God," added the angel,
"if it is it you desire, that there shall be no share for any else in Eriu,
but for you alone.

And the extent of the termon of your see from God is to Droma-Bregh, and to
Sliabh-Mis, and to Bri-Airghi." Patrick replied: "My debroth, truly,"
said Patrick, "sons of life will come after me, and I wish they may
have honor from God in the country after me." The angel responded:
"That is manifest. And God gave all Eriu to you," said the angel,
"and every noble that will be in Eriu shall belong to you." "Deo gratias,"
said Patrick.

Patrick was enraged against his sister--i.e., Lupait--for
committing the sin of adultery, so that she was pregnant in consequence.
When Patrick came into the church from the eastern side, Lupait went
to meet him, until she prostrated herself before the chariot, in the
place where the cross is in Both-Archall. Now, seeing
the fruit is not found amongst you, the fruit, I say, for the sake of which he did at first
plant this vineyard, what remains but that in justice he command to cut you down as those that
cumber the ground, that he may plant himself another vineyard?

In parables there are two things to be taken notice of, and to be inquired into of them that
read. First, The metaphors made use of. Second, The doctrine or mysteries couched under such
metaphors.

The metaphors in this parable are, 1. A certain man; 2. A vineyard; 3. A fig-tree, barren or
fruitless; 4. A dresser; 5. Three years; 6. Digging and dunging, &c.

The doctrine, or mystery, couched under these words is to show us what is like to become of
a fruitless or formal professor. For, 1. By the man in the parable is meant God the Father
(Luke 15:11). 2. By the vineyard, his church (Isa 5:7). 3. By the fig-tree, a professor. 4.
By the dresser, the Lord Jesus. 5. By the fig-tree's barrenness, the professor's fruitlessness.
6. By the three years, the patience of God that for a time he extendeth to barren professors.
7. This calling to the dresser of the vineyard to cut it down, is to show the outcries of justice
against fruitless professors. 8. The dresser's interceding is to show how the Lord Jesus steps
in, and takes hold of the head of his Father's axe, to stop, or at least to defer, the present
execution of a barren fig-tree. I know that was not a dream.

“ ‘Thirdly, I have three motherless daughters. They have no protector but myself. I would rather kill
them than leave them in this sinful world if you could blot out from
it all the teachings of the Gospel.’ ”

COL. INGERSOLL IS A PHILOSOPHER?

Col. Ingersoll tells us that “intellectual liberty, as a matter of
necessity, forever destroys the idea that belief is either PRAISE
OR BLAMEWORTHY, and is wholly inconsistent with every creed in Christendom.”
Again, he says, “No man can control his belief.” Notwithstanding all
this, his whole occupation consists in traveling over the country
and blaming men, women and children for their belief.

He is consistent?

He is a Scientist, you know? He does nothing that is absurd? He is a philosopher,
sitting on the bones of Moses and making grimaces at the faith of Moses,
when neither Moses nor his friends could control their belief? He works
hard for no purpose if men can’t control their belief, and does men injustice,
IF HE BLAMES THEM FOR THEIR FAITH?

A child without a sire; Whose mortal life and transitory fire Light
to the grave his chance-created form, As ocean wrecks illuminate the
storm.

And then—

To-night, and silence sinks forevermore!

Think of Ingersoll at his brother’s grave!

LIFE OF ELDER E. GOODWIN.

This interesting volume will be ready for
delivery in a few days, as it is now in the hands of the binder. It
is a neat volume of 314 pages, on good paper, and substantially bound
in cloth. Price, $1.50.

Some two months ago we issued a prospectus
for this book, proposing to make a work of 300 pages, and putting
the price at $1.25, and these papers have been in the hands of agents
for some time, and quite a large number of persons have subscribed
for the book at that price. All these, with many more,
show us the truth of the observation, and that God's church may be cumbered with fruitless
fig-trees, with barren professors.

Had a FIG-TREE.

Although there be in God's church that be barren and fruitless; yet, as I said, to see to,
they are like the rest of the trees, even a fig-tree. It was not an oak, nor a willow, nor
a thorn, nor a bramble; but a FIG-TREE. 'they come unto thee as the people cometh' (Eze 33:31). His agony
of spirit began again. All his faults, all his old stains came once more to his mind, and he grew
furious against his cowardly feebleness as he felt how much he still
clung to them.

Oh, to tear himself free from all these miseries--to finish with them once for all!... Suddenly
he sprang up. It was as if a gust of the tempest had struck him. He rushed to the end of the
garden, flung himself on his knees under a fig-tree, and with his
forehead pressed against the earth he burst into tears. None of them, as we read of (John 6:70), mistrusting Judas; yet he in
Christ's eye was the barren fig-tree, a devil, a fruitless professor. There is no analogy between
these counterfeits or myths and the “true God,” save that remote
power of God which is divided up and parceled out among them.

Their morals were the worst. The whole mythical system is simply one grand demonstration of human
apostacy from the “true God.” Homer introduces Zeus in love, and bitterly
complaining and bewailing himself, and plotted against by the other
gods. He represents the gods as suffering at the hands of men. "The songs of Zion,"
so sung, are wondrously sweet; even the poor captives in Babylon were called upon to sing
them for the pleasure of their heathen captors.

"The
songs of Zion." Many of you imagine they are all pretty much alike;
all solemn and tedious and slow.

Had a fig-tree PLANTED.

