Mrs. Amherst had risen and crossed over to his chair. She leaned on it a moment, pushing the
tossed brown hair from his forehead. 

"Wait for the medicine," she said, "and bring it home with you."

He was waiting in the shop until it was ready, and turning over all
sorts of plans for the future in his mind, when one of Mrs. Greenwell's
servants came in.

"Is that you, Charlie Scott?" she exclaimed.

"Master Harry was just inquiring after you, if you had been at the
house lately."

"How long have they been at home?" he asked in surprise.

"About two hours; they came this morning."

Charlie picked up the medicine that the chemist had placed before him, and
set off home as hard as he could run.

"I'm just going to Mrs. Greenwell's, mother dear," he said, giving
it in at the door; "I'll soon be back."

Harry Greenwell saw in a moment by Charlie's face that he was in
trouble, and asked anxiously what was the matter. He liked Charlie, and
from the first they had been as close friends as the difference in their
station and education would allow.

Charlie always went to Mrs. Greenwell and "Master Harry" when he was
in trouble; indeed, Mrs. Greenwell had succeeded in making all the
boys who went to her Bible class feel that she was their friend,
and interested in all concerning them; and many of them were thankful
for her advice and kind, encouraging words, when they were in trouble
or anxiety.

Charlie
told them of his father's illness, of his own selfishness, his repentance,
his self-reproach, and his anxiety to do something to help at home.

"My
dear boy," said Mrs. Greenwell, "I am so glad you have come to me;
but I trust you have already laid all this before your great Friend
and Father in heaven."

"Oh
yes, ma'am," answered Charlie; "but I feel so ashamed of having so
often to ask God to forgive me; I feel almost afraid that He will
be tired of me, and refuse to listen."

"We might be afraid of that," said Mrs. Greenwell, "if we asked forgiveness
in our own unworthy names--if the Saviour had never died for us.
But as you know, He came into the world to save sinners.

He gave Himself for our sins. 'He was wounded for our transgressions:
He was bruised for our iniquities, and with His stripes we are healed.'
'The blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin.' He has said,
'Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in My name, He will give it you;'
and if we doubt His word we are lost.

If we repent, and are sincerely sorry for our sin, and ask God to
forgive us, for Jesus Christ's sake, He will do so, no matter how
often we go to Him.

It is Satan who tries to put hard thoughts of God into our hearts. And
now, in your trouble, Charlie, you do not know how the Saviour loves
you and sympathizes with you.

He knows what it is to suffer. He is waiting at the door of your heart,
longing to come in and help and comfort you.

He says, 'Behold, I stand at the door and knock;' do not refuse Him
entrance, Charlie."

Tears stood in Charlie's eyes when Mrs. Greenwell finished speaking,
tears of thankfulness for such a Saviour, and of gratitude to Mrs.
Greenwell.

       

When they began to talk of what Charlie could do to help at home, and
earn some money, Harry asked him what he would like to do best.

"I should
best like to be amongst engines, and machines, and those things,"
said Charlie.

"Father meant me to be an engineer--a working engineer, if all had gone
on well; he meant to apprentice me. But, of course, that is all over
now," he said, with a sigh; "it would be so long before I could earn
anything like good wages."

"Yes, indeed," said Mrs. Greenwell, turning over all sorts of plans
in her mind.

"You see," she went on, "errand boys get so little, and tradesmen
will not give wages to inexperienced boys for shop work, when they
can get apprentices.

Haven't you thought of anything yourself?" she asked, after a pause.

"There's
the pit," answered Charlie, with a sigh; "I could get six shillings
a week, as trapper, directly.

Joe Denton gets more than double that now."

"Oh, Charlie!" exclaimed Harry, "surely you will not have to go down
those terrible mines?"

Mrs. Greenwell reminded Harry that was not the way to help Charlie. "I
know he will feel it hard at first if he goes; but still I am sure
he is a brave boy and will not shrink from it, if he feels it to be
his duty.

You would not have him idling about at home, thinking only of his own comfort,
and picking and choosing his work, when his father, who has done
so much for him, is suffering from a lingering illness, and wanting
so many little comforts that cannot be bought without money?"

After a good deal of thought, Mrs. Greenwell said, "I believe, Charlie,
it is the only thing for you. It will be a great trial to you, I know,
to give up all your dreams about engines and machines, and being
a clever man, and getting rich, and having instead to go down into
a dark, dreary coal-pit day after day, to a life of hard toil; but
it appears, as far as we can see, to be God's will and your duty.

You remember those words of our Saviour,--'If any will come after Me,
let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow Me.' We have
all a cross of some kind to bear, and this is your cross, Charlie;
take it up patiently, bravely, and willingly.

He will not give you more than you can bear.

Trust Him.

There is no doubt some great blessing is in store for you, if you do not shrink from this trial of
your faith."

Charlie had two or three very busy days before Saturday night came.

As soon as he had decided to go down the mine, he went to a fellow-workman
of his father's, Hudson Brownlee, and asked him if he would let him
go down with him the first time.

Brownlee was a kind-hearted man, and took an interest in Charlie.

He promised to see about his work for him, and call on Monday morning at
ten o'clock. Charlie kept it quite a secret from his father and mother
until Saturday night, then, putting on some of his oldest clothes that
he had routed out ready for Monday, and taking his father's lamp in
his hand, that he used in the mine, he walked into the room where they
were, made a bow, twisted himself round in front of them, and with
a cheery face and merry tone said, "Do I look like work, father? shall
I do?"

At first they looked at him in amazement, but gradually his meaning
came upon them.

"My dear boy," said Mrs. Heedman, laying down her knitting, "what do you mean?"

"I mean this," said he, putting down his lamp, and taking each of
their hands in his, "I am not going to be an idle, selfish fellow
any longer.

It's all settled and done. I am going down the pit on Monday, with Hudson Brownlee, and I shall
have six shillings to bring home on Saturday night; think of that,
mother, and I shall soon get twice as much.

       

Father shall want for nothing."

Tears of love and pleasure stood in John Heedman's eyes, for he knew what
it must have cost Charlie to make up his mind to it. "You know how happy
it makes your mother and myself to hear you speak so bravely and
gratefully," he said; "but are you quite sure, Charlie, that you have
counted the cost?

Take another week to think of it; thank God, we are not likely to
want for some time, there is a little store put by.

Remember it is a hard and dreary life to a young ambitious spirit;
think it over again."

"I have thought of it, father, ever since the doctor came to see you
on Tuesday; it is quite settled.

Mrs. Greenwell and Master Harry both seem to think it is my duty. They say
I can serve God the same, and I shall be just as dear to Him as if
I was ever such a rich engineer; and no honest work is a disgrace."

"That is true," his father began; he was going to say something else,
but Charlie seemed anxious to finish his say.

"Master Harry says, father, I must think of what I have been taught,
and try to do my duty in that state of life to which it has pleased
God to call me.

He says if I am obliged to work with my hands, I can work with my
head too. Master Harry has offered to give me lessons in the morning
before I go to work, and he will lend me books to read, and I shall
have that to think about whilst I am down the pit.

It won't seem half
so dreary when I have busy, pleasant thoughts.

And, father, Mrs. Greenwell says I have had such good training at
home, and been able to get to Sunday school and Bible class so regularly,
that I ought to be quite a missionary amongst the boys I shall meet,
who have not had such opportunities."

Application was made for him to be engaged at the pit, and it was
agreed that Charlie should begin his new duties on Monday.

CHAPTER VIII.

DOWN THE MINE.

All boys and girls know the pleasure of drawing up to a nice, bright,
sparkling fire on a cold winter night.

They give little shivers of comfort, and say, "What ever should we do without
a good fire, such weather as this?" But we dare say very few give a thankful
thought to the miner, whose hard toil has procured this comfort for
them.

Perhaps
some who read this do not live in a mining country, and have not
read or heard much about coal mines. If so, we think they will like to
follow Charlie as he goes to his work on Monday morning. Hudson Brownlee
called, as he promised, but we are sorry to say Charlie kept him waiting
full five minutes whilst he searched for a comforter.

His mother had told him to get it ready on Saturday night, but he
put off until Monday morning, then he put off until he got back from
Harry Greenwell's. Harry kept him longer than he expected, and he
came tearing along just as Hudson Brownlee reached the door; then
the comforter had to be found.

At last they started. When Charlie stood near the great, dark, gaping mouth of the
pit, and remembered that he had to go down there, he certainly felt as he
afterwards described it, "very queer"--not afraid, oh no, but queer.

The cage, as it is called, had just been let down, with its number of sixteen
men; when it came up again, Hudson Brownlee, Charlie, and some other
men and boys got in.

If Charlie
felt "queer" before, he felt still "queerer" now, and when the cage began
to descend, he felt almost sick with the motion; it seemed to him as if
they were never going to reach the bottom. Down, down, down they went;
the clatter of the engine above, and the creaking of the cage, making
Charlie fancy every now and then that the rope was giving way, and
that in another second they would all be dashed to atoms.

Whenever he looked up, and remembered that all their weight was bearing
upon that rope, he screwed himself up into the smallest possible compass,
as if that would make him lighter.

He could scarcely see anything at first, the change from broad daylight
to the glimmering light of the lamps that the men carried was so
great.

"Are you all right, my boy?" said Brownlee's cheery voice; "keep up your heart,
we shall soon be out of this.

He's a new hand," he said, turning to the others.

"Who is it?" they asked.

"Why," said Brownlee, lowering his voice, "it's that young one that John
Heedman took to keep; his father was drowned, you'll remember--Scott,
the pilot."

On hearing this most of them were silent, but one boy thrust his lamp
forward, and stared rudely in Charlie's face.

"Why, if it isn't that Miss Nancy fellow, Scott!" he exclaimed, in
either real or pretended astonishment.

"But it can't be," he went on, in a mocking tone, "and yet it is;
why, how ever has it happened that such a nice, good boy, the ladies'
pet, has come down amongst us roughs?

I thought he was going to be made a gentleman of--dear, dear! and he hasn't
got his white collar on; and his mother isn't with him."

"Come, hold that saucy tongue of yours, White Bob," said Brownlee,
in an angry tone, "or it will be worse for you."

The boy's proper name was Bob White. He was a tall, thin, singular-looking
lad, about fifteen years old, with a pale face.

When
he first went to work in the mine some of the boys called him White Bob,
in nonsense, and the name had stuck to him.

He was certainly silent after Brownlee spoke to him, but he kept throwing back
his head, lifting up his hands, turning up his eyes, and expressing
his mock astonishment in so many odd ways, that the rest of the boys,
although they bore no ill-will to Charlie, were convulsed with laughter.

As for Charlie
himself, he was in a great passion; it was fortunate that just at this
moment the cage reached the bottom, and in the general scramble to
get out he lost sight of Bob.

"Now, my boy, keep close to me," said Brownlee, "never mind those
fellows: keep your temper, and they'll soon tire of it.

Now look about you; you are many hundred feet under ground." It was a strange
scene to Charlie. Look where you would, nothing but black met the eye--black
walls, black floor, groups of black men standing about--every one and
every thing was covered with the bright coal dust that glittered
and sparkled in the rays of the lamps, like black diamonds.

"Now," said Brownlee, "we must get to work. I'll take you to your
place, as it is in my way;" and they turned up a sort of road or
gallery that had been cut out of the slate and coal.

On each side of this branched, right and left,
other roads or galleries that had been formed by the taking away
of the coal; from these again branched other roads, and so on, that
you might walk for miles under ground, in and out of the workings
of the mine.

As the coal is hewn away the roof is supported
by props of wood. In some places it was so low that Brownlee had to
walk stooping.

Of course Charlie did not find
all this out at first, for they only had the light given by their lamps
to guide them and relieve the intense darkness.

"What is that?" asked Charlie,
as a little spark of light like a glowworm appeared in the distance,
and a low rumbling noise met their ears.

"You'll see in a minute," said Brownlee, smiling at Charlie's wonder.

The
light came gradually nearer and nearer, and then Charlie saw it was
a lamp carried by a boy who had charge of a little pony and some coal
tubs--sort of square tubs on wheels.

Brownlee told him that the boys who had that work were called
putters; they were occupied in taking empty tubs to the men who hewed
the coal, and in bringing away the full tubs, and that they earned
good wages: they had a shilling a score for the tubs they removed.

"I should think the poor ponies have a hard life of it," said Charlie.

"Do they take the tubs right away to the mouth of the pit?"

"No, they only go so far, then the engine pulls them to the shaft, and
they are drawn up to bank, to be emptied and sent down again."

"We seem to have come a long way," said Charlie.

"About a mile," answered Brownlee; "but we've worked a deal further
out that way," pointing to the left. "We're either under the sea or close
at the edge, out there."

Charlie gave a little shudder. "Where is my work, please?" he asked.

"Oh,
we've passed your place; the door we came through last is the one you
have to take care of. I'm just taking you round a bit, as you're new
to it. Mind your head," he called, as they turned up a low gallery
to the right, and they both went along stooping. "Stop there," said
Brownlee, creeping along by himself a little further, and sitting
on his heels opposite a wall of bright coal. "There," he said, "how
would you like to sit cramped up like this for six hours, hewing coal,
and hearing the stone above you crack like a gun, and move about
as you work, expecting every moment you'll have to run for your life--that
is, if you have the chance? I had a narrow escape last winter," he said,
as he joined Charlie again; "two of us were working together, and all
of a sudden there was an awful crack, like a cannon going off. It was
who could scramble up and run quickest, I can tell you.

It was my luck to be last, and down came a tremendous
piece; the end of it just dropped on my foot as I was running, and it
held me as fast as if a mountain had been on the top of me, although
I was free all but my foot.

None of them durst venture to me for
a good bit, for there was an awful noise going on round me, and there
I laid as fast as could be, expecting every moment would be my last."

"What
dangerous work!" exclaimed Charlie. "I should think nobody durst
do it if they didn't know they had God to protect them and take care
of them."

"I'll see you to your work now," said Brownlee, turning
the subject. "Here we are," he said; "do you see this seat behind
the door? then all you've got to do is to sit here and pull that rope
that opens the door when the putters or any of the men want to come
through. The boys stay down twelve hours, but I'll see you again before
I go up.

The servant to whom he gave his message showed him into the library, with a request that he
should wait; and there, to his surprise, he found, not the white-moustached gentleman whom
he had guessed the night before to be Mr. Langhope, but a young lady in deep black, who turned
on him a look of not unfriendly enquiry.

It was not Bessy's habit to anticipate the clock; but her distaste for her surroundings, and
the impatience to have done with the tedious duties awaiting her, had sent her downstairs before
the rest of the party. Her life had been so free from tiresome obligations that she had but
a small stock of patience to meet them with; and already, after a night at Hanaford, she was
pining to get back to the comforts of her own country-house, the soft rut of her daily habits,
the funny chatter of her little girl, the long stride of her Irish hunter across the Hempstead
plains--to everything, in short, that made it conceivably worth while to get up in the morning. 

I have many articles which, though of no intrinsic value, are bound to me by strong ties of sentiment;
little old bits of things--you know how it is. After twenty minutes' heart-and-drawer-searching I decided
to sacrifice a policeman's helmet and a sock, the upper of which had outlasted the toe and heel.
I bore these downstairs and laid them at Aunt Angela's feet.

"What's this?" said she, stirring the helmet disdainfully with her
toe.

"Relic of the Great War. The Crown Prince used to wear it in wet weather
to keep the crown dry."

Aunt Angela sniffed and picked up the sock with the fire-tongs. "And this?"

"A sock, of course," I explained.

"An emergency sock of my own invention. It has three exits, you will
observe, very handy in case of fire."

"Hump!" said Aunt Angela.

Edward returned bearing his offerings, a gent's rimless boater, a doorknob,
six inches of lead-piping and half a bottle of cod-liver oil.

"Hump!" said Aunt Angela.

No more was said of it that night. Aunt Angela resumed her sewing, Edward his
Gertie, I my slumb--, my meditations.

Nor indeed was the jumble sale again mentioned, a fact which in itself
should have aroused my suspicions; but I am like that, innocent as
a sucking-dove.

I had put the matter out of my mind altogether until yesterday evening,
when, hearing the sound of laboured breathing and the frantic clanking
of a bicycle pump proceeding from the shed, I went thither to investigate,
and was nearly capsized by Edward charging out.

"It's gone," he cried--"gone!" and pawed wildly for his stirrup.

"What has?" I inquired.

"'The Limit,'" he wailed. "She's picked ... lock ... muck-room with a hairpin,
sent ... Limit ... jumble sale!"

He sprang
aboard his cycle and disappeared down the high road to St. Gwithian, pedalling
like a squirrel on a treadmill, the tails of his new mackintosh spread
like wings on the breeze.

So Aunt Angela with serpentine guile had deferred
her raid until the last moment and then bagged "The Limit," the pride
of the muck-room.

"The Limit," I should tell you, is (or was) a waterproof. It is a faithful
record of Edward's artistic activities during the last thirty years,
being decorated all down the front with smears of red, white and
green paint. Here and there it has been repaired with puncture patches
and strips of surgical plaster, but more often it has not. As Edward
is incapable of replacing a button and Aunt Angela refuses to touch
the "Limit," he knots himself into it with odds and ends of string
and has to be liberated by his ally, the cook, with a kitchen knife.

Edward calls it his "garden coat," and swears
he only wears it on dirty jobs, to save his new mackintosh, but nevertheless
he is sincerely attached to the rag, and once attempted to travel to
London to a Royal Society beano in it, and was only frustrated in
the nick of time.

So the oft-threatened "Limit" had been reached
at last. I laughed heartily for a moment, then a sudden cold dread
gripped me, and I raced upstairs and tore open my wardrobe. Gregory,
the glory of Gopherville, had gone too! CENTRAL SYNCOPATIONS.

1. Syncopate an orifice,
and leave a troublesome insect. 2. Syncopate to cut, and get a natural
underground chamber. 3. Syncopate a wise saying, and get to injure.
4. Syncopate a small house, and leave a fugitive named in the Bible. C.K.

EASY CROSS-WORD ENIGMA.

My first is in edict, but not in law; My second's in chilly, but not
in raw. My third is in ice, but not in snow; My fourth is in cut,
but not in mow. My fifth is in mild, but not in bland; My sixth is
in country, not in land. My seventh is in silent, not in still; My
eighth is in slaughter, but not in kill. My ninth is in learn, but
not in teach; My tenth is in sandy, but not in beach. My whole is
the name of a useful book, As soon you'll see, if you'll closely look. CENTRAL SYNCOPATIONS.

1. Syncopate an orifice, and leave a troublesome insect. 2. Syncopate
to cut, and get a natural underground chamber. 3. Syncopate a wise
saying, and get to injure. 4. Syncopate a small house, and leave a
fugitive named in the Bible. 

The great goshawk, a bird in a coat of blackish-brown covered with blotches of black and reddish-white,
is a terrible enemy to wild rabbits, hares, and squirrels, and to all the small feathered inhabitants
of field and forest. It is about two feet long, and although it is not a
bird of very rapid flight, its cunning and strength are such that its prey
rarely escapes.

Should the terrified hare hide itself in some thicket, the goshawk patiently
perches on an elevated branch near at hand, where it will wait hours,
motionless, until the poor hare, thinking its enemy departed, ventures
from its retreat, when in an instant it is swooped down upon, and
struck dying to the ground.

Goshawks are found in the Middle and Western States during the autumn
and winter. In the summer they go far to the northward to rear their young.
They build a large nest of twigs and coarse grasses on some lofty
branch of a tree, and lay three or four eggs of dull bluish-white
slightly spotted with reddish-brown.

These savage birds are very common in Maine, where they make great
havoc among the flocks of wild-ducks and Canada grouse, and will even,
when driven by hunger, venture an attack on the fowls of the farm-yard.

Its sharp eye always gleaming and
on the alert, the goshawk sweeps over fields and woods, changing its
course in an instant by a slight movement of its rudder-like tail
whenever any desired prey is sighted. It is the most restless of birds,
and is almost constantly on the wing, seldom alighting except for
breakfast and dinner. 

CENTRAL SYNCOPATIONS.

1. Syncopate an orifice, and leave a troublesome insect. 2. Syncopate
to cut, and get a natural underground chamber. 3. Syncopate a wise
saying, and get to injure. 4. Syncopate a small house, and leave a
fugitive named in the Bible.

