Biographical historians and historians of separate nations understand this force as a power
inherent in heroes and rulers. In their narration events occur solely by the will of a Napoleon,
and Alexander, or in general of the persons they describe. The answers given by this kind of
historian to the question of what force causes events to happen are satisfactory only as long
as there is but one historian to each event. As soon as historians of different nationalities
and tendencies begin to describe the same event, the replies they give immediately lose all
meaning, for this force is understood by them all not only differently but often in quite contradictory
ways. One historian says that an event was produced by Napoleon's power, another that it was
produced by Alexander's, a third that it was due to the power of some other person. Besides
this, historians of that kind contradict each other even in their statement as to the force
on which the authority of some particular person was based. Thiers, a Bonapartist, says that
Napoleon's power was based on his virtue and genius. Lanfrey, a Republican, says it was based
on his trickery and deception of the people. So the historians of this class, by mutually destroying
one another's positions, destroy the understanding of the force which produces events, and
furnish no reply to history's essential question.

Writers of universal history who deal with all the nations seem to recognize how erroneous
is the specialist historians' view of the force which produces events. They do not recognize
it as a power inherent in heroes and rulers, but as the resultant of a multiplicity of variously
directed forces. In describing a war or the subjugation of a people, a general historian looks
for the cause of the event not in the power of one man, but in the interaction of many persons
connected with the event.

According to this view the power of historical personages, represented as the product of many
forces, can no longer, it would seem, be regarded as a force that itself produces events. Yet
in most cases universal historians still employ the conception of power as a force that itself
produces events, and treat it as their cause. In their exposition, an historic character is
first the product of his time, and his power only the resultant of various forces, and then
his power is itself a force producing events. Gervinus, Schlosser, and others, for instance,
at one time prove Napoleon to be a product of the Revolution, of the ideas of 1789 and so forth,
and at another plainly say that the campaign of 1812 and other things they do not like were
simply the product of Napoleon's misdirected will, and that the very ideas of 1789 were arrested
in their development by Napoleon's caprice. The ideas of the Revolution and the general temper
of the age produced Napoleon's power. But Napoleon's power suppressed the ideas of the Revolution
and the general temper of the age.

This curious contradiction is not accidental. Not only does it occur at every step, but the
universal historians' accounts are all made up of a chain of such contradictions. This contradiction
occurs because after entering the field of analysis the universal historians stop halfway.

To find component forces equal to the composite or resultant force, the sum of the components
must equal the resultant. This condition is never observed by the universal historians, and
so to explain the resultant forces they are obliged to admit, in addition to the insufficient
components, another unexplained force affecting the resultant action.

Specialist historians describing the campaign of 1813 or the restoration of the Bourbons plainly
assert that these events were produced by the will of Alexander. But the universal historian
Gervinus, refuting this opinion of the specialist historian, tries to prove that the campaign
of 1813 and the restoration of the Bourbons were due to other things beside Alexander's will--such
as the activity of Stein, Metternich, Madame de Stael, Talleyrand, Fichte Chateaubriand, and
others. The historian evidently decomposes Alexander's power into the components: Talleyrand,
Chateaubriand, and the rest--but the sum of the components, that is, the interactions of Chateaubriand,
Talleyrand, Madame de Stael, and the others, evidently does not equal the resultant, namely
the phenomenon of millions of Frenchmen submitting to the Bourbons. That Chateaubriand, Madame
de Stael, and others spoke certain words to one another only affected their mutual relations
but does not account for the submission of millions. And therefore to explain how from these
relations of theirs the submission of millions of people resulted--that is, how component forces
equal to one A gave a resultant equal to a thousand times A--the historian is again obliged
to fall back on power--the force he had denied--and to recognize it as the resultant of the
forces, that is, he has to admit an unexplained force acting on the resultant. And that is
just what the universal historians do, and consequently they not only contradict the specialist
historians but contradict themselves.

Peasants having no clear idea of the cause of rain, say, according to whether they want rain
or fine weather: "The wind has blown the clouds away," or, "The wind has brought up the clouds."
And in the same way the universal historians sometimes, when it pleases them and fits in with
their theory, say that power is the result of events, and sometimes, when they want to prove
something else, say that power produces events.

A third class of historians--the so-called historians of culture--following the path laid down
by the universal historians who sometimes accept writers and ladies as forces producing events--again
take that force to be something quite different. They see it in what is called culture--in
mental activity.

The historians of culture are quite consistent in regard to their progenitors, the writers
of universal histories, for if historical events may be explained by the fact that certain
persons treated one another in such and such ways, why not explain them by the fact that such
and such people wrote such and such books? Of the immense number of indications accompanying
every vital phenomenon, these historians select the indication of intellectual activity and
say that this indication is the cause. But despite their endeavors to prove that the cause
of events lies in intellectual activity, only by a great stretch can one admit that there is
any connection between intellectual activity and the movement of peoples, and in no case can
one admit that intellectual activity controls people's actions, for that view is not confirmed
by such facts as the very cruel murders of the French Revolution resulting from the doctrine
of the equality of man, or the very cruel wars and executions resulting from the preaching of love.

But even admitting as correct all the cunningly devised arguments with which these histories
are filled--admitting that nations are governed by some undefined force called an idea--history's
essential question still remains unanswered, and to the former power of monarchs and to the
influence of advisers and other people introduced by the universal historians, another, newer
force--the idea--is added, the connection of which with the masses needs explanation. It is
possible to understand that Napoleon had power and so events occurred; with some effort one
may even conceive that Napoleon together with other influences was the cause of an event; but
how a book, Le Contrat social, had the effect of making Frenchmen begin to drown one another
cannot be understood without an explanation of the causal nexus of this new force with the event.

Undoubtedly some relation exists between all who live contemporaneously, and so it is possible
to find some connection between the intellectual activity of men and their historical movements,
just as such a connection may be found between the movements of humanity and commerce, handicraft,
gardening, or anything else you please. But why intellectual activity is considered by the
historians of culture to be the cause or expression of the whole historical movement is hard
to understand. Only the following considerations can have led the historians to such a conclusion:
(1) that history is written by learned men, and so it is natural and agreeable for them to
think that the activity of their class supplies the basis of the movement of all humanity,
just as a similar belief is natural and agreeable to traders, agriculturists, and soldiers
(if they do not express it, that is merely because traders and soldiers do not write history),
and (2) that spiritual activity, enlightenment, civilization, culture, ideas, are all indistinct,
indefinite conceptions under whose banner it is very easy to use words having a still less
definite meaning, and which can therefore be readily introduced into any theory.

But not to speak of the intrinsic quality of histories of this kind (which may possibly even
be of use to someone for something) the histories of culture, to which all general histories
tend more and more to approximate, are significant from the fact that after seriously and minutely
examining various religious, philosophic, and political doctrines as causes of events, as soon
as they have to describe an actual historic event such as the campaign of 1812 for instance,
they involuntarily describe it as resulting from an exercise of power--and say plainly that
that was the result of Napoleon's will. Speaking so, the historians of culture involuntarily
contradict themselves, and show that the new force they have devised does not account for what
happens in history, and that history can only be explained by introducing a power which they
apparently do not recognize.

CHAPTER III

A locomotive is moving. Someone asks: "What moves it?" A peasant says the devil moves it. Another
man says the locomotive moves because its wheels go round. A third asserts that the cause of
its movement lies in the smoke which the wind carries away.

The peasant is irrefutable. He has devised a complete explanation. To refute him someone would
have to prove to him that there is no devil, or another peasant would have to explain to him
that it is not the devil but a German, who moves the locomotive. Only then, as a result of
the contradiction, will they see that they are both wrong. But the man who says that the movement
of the wheels is the cause refutes himself, for having once begun to analyze he ought to go
on and explain further why the wheels go round; and till he has reached the ultimate cause
of the movement of the locomotive in the pressure of steam in the boiler, he has no right to
stop in his search for the cause. The man who explains the movement of the locomotive by the
smoke that is carried back has noticed that the wheels do not supply an explanation and has
taken the first sign that occurs to him and in his turn has offered that as an explanation.

The only conception that can explain the movement of the locomotive is that of a force commensurate
with the movement observed.

The only conception that can explain the movement of the peoples is that of some force commensurate
with the whole movement of the peoples.

Yet to supply this conception various historians take forces of different kinds, all of which
are incommensurate with the movement observed. Some see it as a force directly inherent in
heroes, as the peasant sees the devil in the locomotive; others as a force resulting from several
other forces, like the movement of the wheels; others again as an intellectual influence, like
the smoke that is blown away.

So long as histories are written of separate individuals, whether Caesars, Alexanders, Luthers,
or Voltaires, and not the histories of all, absolutely all those who take part in an event,
it is quite impossible to describe the movement of humanity without the conception of a force
compelling men to direct their activity toward a certain end. And the only such conception
known to historians is that of power.

This conception is the one handle by means of which the material of history, as at present
expounded, can be dealt with, and anyone who breaks that handle off, as Buckle did, without
finding some other method of treating historical material, merely deprives himself of the one
possible way of dealing with it. The necessity of the conception of power as an explanation
of historical events is best demonstrated by the universal historians and historians of culture
themselves, for they professedly reject that conception but inevitably have recourse to it
at every step.

In dealing with humanity's inquiry, the science of history up to now is like money in circulation--paper
money and coin. The biographies and special national histories are like paper money. They can
be used and can circulate and fulfill their purpose without harm to anyone and even advantageously,
as long as no one asks what is the security behind them. You need only forget to ask how the
will of heroes produces events, and such histories as Thiers' will be interesting and instructive
and may perhaps even possess a tinge of poetry. But just as doubts of the real value of paper
money arise either because, being easy to make, too much of it gets made or because people
try to exchange it for gold, so also doubts concerning the real value of such histories arise
either because too many of them are written or because in his simplicity of heart someone inquires:
by what force did Napoleon do this?--that is, wants to exchange the current paper money for
the real gold of actual comprehension.

The writers of universal histories and of the history of culture are like people who, recognizing
the defects of paper money, decide to substitute for it money made of metal that has not the
specific gravity of gold. It may indeed make jingling coin, but will do no more than that.
Paper money may deceive the ignorant, but nobody is deceived by tokens of base metal that have
no value but merely jingle. As gold is gold only if it is serviceable not merely for exchange
but also for use, so universal historians will be valuable only when they can reply to history's
essential question: what is power? The universal historians give contradictory replies to that
question, while the historians of culture evade it and answer something quite different. And
as counters of imitation gold can be used only among a group of people who agree to accept
them as gold, or among those who do not know the nature of gold, so universal historians and
historians of culture, not answering humanity's essential question, serve as currency for some
purposes of their own, only in universities and among the mass of readers who have a taste
for what they call "serious reading."

CHAPTER IV

Having abandoned the conception of the ancients as to the divine subjection of the will of
a nation to some chosen man and the subjection of that man's will to the Deity, history cannot
without contradictions take a single step till it has chosen one of two things: either a return
to the former belief in the direct intervention of the Deity in human affairs or a definite
explanation of the meaning of the force producing historical events and termed "power."

A return to the first is impossible, the belief has been destroyed; and so it is essential
to explain what is meant by power.

Napoleon ordered an army to be raised and go to war. We are so accustomed to that idea and
have become so used to it that the question: why did six hundred thousand men go to fight when
Napoleon uttered certain words, seems to us senseless. He had the power and so what he ordered
was done.

This reply is quite satisfactory if we believe that the power was given him by God. But as
soon as we do not admit that, it becomes essential to determine what is this power of one man
over others.

It cannot be the direct physical power of a strong man over a weak one--a domination based
on the application or threat of physical force, like the power of Hercules; nor can it be based
on the effect of moral force, as in their simplicity some historians think who say that the
leading figures in history are heroes, that is, men gifted with a special strength of soul
and mind called genius. This power cannot be based on the predominance of moral strength, for,
not to mention heroes such as Napoleon about whose moral qualities opinions differ widely,
history shows us that neither a Louis XI nor a Metternich, who ruled over millions of people,
had any particular moral qualities, but on the contrary were generally morally weaker than
any of the millions they ruled over.

If the source of power lies neither in the physical nor in the moral qualities of him who possesses
it, it must evidently be looked for elsewhere--in the relation to the people of the man who
wields the power.

And that is how power is understood by the science of jurisprudence, that exchange bank of
history which offers to exchange history's understanding of power for true gold.

Power is the collective will of the people transferred, by expressed or tacit consent, to their
chosen rulers.

In the domain of jurisprudence, which consists of discussions of how a state and power might
be arranged were it possible for all that to be arranged, it is all very clear; but when applied
to history that definition of power needs explanation.

The science of jurisprudence regards the state and power as the ancients regarded fire--namely,
as something existing absolutely. But for history, the state and power are merely phenomena,
just as for modern physics fire is not an element but a phenomenon.

From this fundamental difference between the view held by history and that held by jurisprudence,
it follows that jurisprudence can tell minutely how in its opinion power should be constituted
and what power--existing immutably outside time--is, but to history's questions about the meaning
of the mutations of power in time it can answer nothing.

If power be the collective will of the people transferred to their ruler, was Pugachev a representative
of the will of the people? If not, then why was Napoleon I? Why was Napoleon III a criminal
when he was taken prisoner at Boulogne, and why, later on, were those criminals whom he arrested?

Do palace revolutions--in which sometimes only two or three people take part--transfer the
will of the people to a new ruler? In international relations, is the will of the people also
transferred to their conqueror? Was the will of the Confederation of the Rhine transferred
to Napoleon in 1806? Was the will of the Russian people transferred to Napoleon in 1809, when
our army in alliance with the French went to fight the Austrians?

To these questions three answers are possible:

Either to assume (1) that the will of the people is always unconditionally transferred to the
ruler or rulers they have chosen, and that therefore every emergence of a new power, every
struggle against the power once appointed, should be absolutely regarded as an infringement
of the real power; or (2) that the will of the people is transferred to the rulers conditionally,
under definite and known conditions, and to show that all limitations, conflicts, and even
destructions of power result from a nonobservance by the rulers of the conditions under which
their power was entrusted to them; or (3) that the will of the people is delegated to the rulers
conditionally, but that the conditions are unknown and indefinite, and that the appearance
of several authorities, their struggles and their falls, result solely from the greater or
lesser fulfillment by the rulers of these unknown conditions on which the will of the people
is transferred from some people to others.

And these are the three ways in which the historians do explain the relation of the people
to their rulers.

Some historians--those biographical and specialist historians already referred to--in their
simplicity failing to understand the question of the meaning of power, seem to consider that
the collective will of the people is unconditionally transferred to historical persons, and
therefore when describing some single state they assume that particular power to be the one
absolute and real power, and that any other force opposing this is not a power but a violation
of power--mere violence.

Their theory, suitable for primitive and peaceful periods of history, has the inconvenience--in
application to complex and stormy periods in the life of nations during which various powers
arise simultaneously and struggle with one another--that a Legitimist historian will prove
that the National Convention, the Directory, and Bonaparte were mere infringers of the true
power, while a Republican and a Bonapartist will prove: the one that the Convention and the
other that the Empire was the real power, and that all the others were violations of power.
Evidently the explanations furnished by these historians being mutually contradictory can only
satisfy young children.

Recognizing the falsity of this view of history, another set of historians say that power rests
on a conditional delegation of the will of the people to their rulers, and that historical
leaders have power only conditionally on carrying out the program that the will of the people
has by tacit agreement prescribed to them. But what this program consists in these historians
do not say, or if they do they continually contradict one another.

Each historian, according to his view of what constitutes a nation's progress, looks for these
conditions in the greatness, wealth, freedom, or enlightenment of citizens of France or some
other country. But not to mention the historians' contradictions as to the nature of this program--or
even admitting that some one general program of these conditions exists--the facts of history
almost always contradict that theory. If the conditions under which power is entrusted consist
in the wealth, freedom, and enlightenment of the people, how is it that Louis XIV and Ivan
the Terrible end their reigns tranquilly, while Louis XVI and Charles I are executed by their
people? To this question historians reply that Louis XIV's activity, contrary to the program,
reacted on Louis XVI. But why did it not react on Louis XIV or on Louis XV--why should it react
just on Louis XVI? And what is the time limit for such reactions? To these questions there
are and can be no answers. Equally little does this view explain why for several centuries
the collective will is not withdrawn from certain rulers and their heirs, and then suddenly
during a period of fifty years is transferred to the Convention, to the Directory, to Napoleon,
to Alexander, to Louis XVIII, to Napoleon again, to Charles X, to Louis Philippe, to a Republican
government, and to Napoleon III. When explaining these rapid transfers of the people's will
from one individual to another, especially in view of international relations, conquests, and
alliances, the historians are obliged to admit that some of these transfers are not normal
delegations of the people's will but are accidents dependent on cunning, on mistakes, on craft,
or on the weakness of a diplomatist, a ruler, or a party leader. So that the greater part of
the events of history--civil wars, revolutions, and conquests--are presented by these historians
not as the results of free transferences of the people's will, but as results of the ill-directed
will of one or more individuals, that is, once again, as usurpations of power. And so these
historians also see and admit historical events which are exceptions to the theory.

These historians resemble a botanist who, having noticed that some plants grow from seeds producing
two cotyledons, should insist that all that grows does so by sprouting into two leaves, and
that the palm, the mushroom, and even the oak, which blossom into full growth and no longer
resemble two leaves, are deviations from the theory.

Historians of the third class assume that the will of the people is transferred to historic
personages conditionally, but that the conditions are unknown to us. They say that historical
personages have power only because they fulfill the will of the people which has been delegated
to them.

But in that case, if the force that moves nations lies not in the historic leaders but in the
nations themselves, what significance have those leaders?

The leaders, these historians tell us, express the will of the people: the activity of the
leaders represents the activity of the people.

But in that case the question arises whether all the activity of the leaders serves as an expression
of the people's will or only some part of it. If the whole activity of the leaders serves as
the expression of the people's will, as some historians suppose, then all the details of the
court scandals contained in the biographies of a Napoleon or a Catherine serve to express the
life of the nation, which is evident nonsense; but if it is only some particular side of the
activity of an historical leader which serves to express the people's life, as other so-called
"philosophical" historians believe, then to determine which side of the activity of a leader
expresses the nation's life, we have first of all to know in what the nation's life consists.

Met by this difficulty historians of that class devise some most obscure, impalpable, and general
abstraction which can cover all conceivable occurrences, and declare this abstraction to be
the aim of humanity's movement. The most usual generalizations adopted by almost all the historians
are: freedom, equality, enlightenment, progress, civilization, and culture. Postulating some
generalization as the goal of the movement of humanity, the historians study the men of whom
the greatest number of monuments have remained: kings, ministers, generals, authors, reformers,
popes, and journalists, to the extent to which in their opinion these persons have promoted
or hindered that abstraction. But as it is in no way proved that the aim of humanity does consist
in freedom, equality, enlightenment, or civilization, and as the connection of the people with
the rulers and enlighteners of humanity is only based on the arbitrary assumption that the
collective will of the people is always transferred to the men whom we have noticed, it happens
that the activity of the millions who migrate, burn houses, abandon agriculture, and destroy
one another never is expressed in the account of the activity of some dozen people who did
not burn houses, practice agriculture, or slay their fellow creatures.

History proves this at every turn. Is the ferment of the peoples of the west at the end of
the eighteenth century and their drive eastward explained by the activity of Louis XIV, XV,
and XVI, their mistresses and ministers, and by the lives of Napoleon, Rousseau, Diderot, Beaumarchais,
and others?

Is the movement of the Russian people eastward to Kazan and Siberia expressed by details of
the morbid character of Ivan the Terrible and by his correspondence with Kurbski?

Is the movement of the peoples at the time of the Crusades explained by the life and activity
of the Godfreys and the Louis-es and their ladies? For us that movement of the peoples from
west to east, without leaders, with a crowd of vagrants, and with Peter the Hermit, remains
incomprehensible. And yet more incomprehensible is the cessation of that movement when a rational
and sacred aim for the Crusade--the deliverance of Jerusalem--had been clearly defined by historic
leaders. Popes, kings, and knights incited the peoples to free the Holy Land; but the people
did not go, for the unknown cause which had previously impelled them to go no longer existed.
The history of the Godfreys and the Minnesingers can evidently not cover the life of the peoples.
And the history of the Godfreys and the Minnesingers has remained the history of Godfreys and
Minnesingers, but the history of the life of the peoples and their impulses has remained unknown.

Still less does the history of authors and reformers explain to us the life of the peoples.

The history of culture explains to us the impulses and conditions of life and thought of a
writer or a reformer. We learn that Luther had a hot temper and said such and such things;
we learn that Rousseau was suspicious and wrote such and such books; but we do not learn why
after the Reformation the peoples massacred one another, nor why during the French Revolution
they guillotined one another.

If we unite both these kinds of history, as is done by the newest historians, we shall have
the history of monarchs and writers, but not the history of the life of the peoples.

CHAPTER V

The life of the nations is not contained in the lives of a few men, for the connection between
those men and the nations has not been found. The theory that this connection is based on the
transference of the collective will of a people to certain historical personages is an hypothesis
unconfirmed by the experience of history.

The theory of the transference of the collective will of the people to historic persons may
perhaps explain much in the domain of jurisprudence and be essential for its purposes, but
in its application to history, as soon as revolutions, conquests, or civil wars occur--that
is, as soon as history begins--that theory explains nothing.

The theory seems irrefutable just because the act of transference of the people's will cannot
be verified, for it never occurred.

Whatever happens and whoever may stand at the head of affairs, the theory can always say that
such and such a person took the lead because the collective will was transferred to him.

The replies this theory gives to historical questions are like the replies of a man who, watching
the movements of a herd of cattle and paying no attention to the varying quality of the pasturage
in different parts of the field, or to the driving of the herdsman, should attribute the direction
the herd takes to what animal happens to be at its head.

"The herd goes in that direction because the animal in front leads it and the collective will
of all the other animals is vested in that leader." This is what historians of the first class
say--those who assume the unconditional transference of the people's will.

"If the animals leading the herd change, this happens because the collective will of all the
animals is transferred from one leader to another, according to whether the animal is or is
not leading them in the direction selected by the whole herd." Such is the reply historians
who assume that the collective will of the people is delegated to rulers under conditions which
they regard as known. (With this method of observation it often happens that the observer,
influenced by the direction he himself prefers, regards those as leaders who, owing to the
people's change of direction, are no longer in front, but on one side, or even in the rear.)

"If the animals in front are continually changing and the direction of the whole herd is constantly
altered, this is because in order to follow a given direction the animals transfer their will
to the animals that have attracted our attention, and to study the movements of the herd we
must watch the movements of all the prominent animals moving on all sides of the herd." So
say the third class of historians who regard all historical persons, from monarchs to journalists,
as the expression of their age.

The theory of the transference of the will of the people to historic persons is merely a paraphrase--a
restatement of the question in other words.

What causes historical events? Power. What is power? Power is the collective will of the people
transferred to one person. Under what condition is the will of the people delegated to one
person? On condition that that person expresses the will of the whole people. That is, power
is power: in other words, power is a word the meaning of which we do not understand.

If the realm of human knowledge were confined to abstract reasoning, then having subjected
to criticism the explanation of "power" that juridical science gives us, humanity would conclude
that power is merely a word and has no real existence. But to understand phenomena man has,
besides abstract reasoning, experience by which he verifies his reflections. And experience
tells us that power is not merely a word but an actually existing phenomenon.

Not to speak of the fact that no description of the collective activity of men can do without
the conception of power, the existence of power is proved both by history and by observing
contemporary events.

Whenever an event occurs a man appears or men appear, by whose will the event seems to have
taken place. Napoleon III issues a decree and the French go to Mexico. The King of Prussia
and Bismarck issue decrees and an army enters Bohemia. Napoleon I issues a decree and an army
enters Russia. Alexander I gives a command and the French submit to the Bourbons. Experience
shows us that whatever event occurs it is always related to the will of one or of several men
who have decreed it.

The historians, in accord with the old habit of acknowledging divine intervention in human
affairs, want to see the cause of events in the expression of the will of someone endowed with
power, but that supposition is not confirmed either by reason or by experience.

On the one side reflection shows that the expression of a man's will--his words--are only part
of the general activity expressed in an event, as for instance in a war or a revolution, and
so without assuming an incomprehensible, supernatural force--a miracle--one cannot admit that
words can be the immediate cause of the movements of millions of men. On the other hand, even
if we admitted that words could be the cause of events, history shows that the expression of
the will of historical personages does not in most cases produce any effect, that is to say,
their commands are often not executed, and sometimes the very opposite of what they order occurs.

Without admitting divine intervention in the affairs of humanity we cannot regard "power" as
the cause of events.

Power, from the standpoint of experience, is merely the relation that exists between the expression
of someone's will and the execution of that will by others.

To explain the conditions of that relationship we must first establish a conception of the
expression of will, referring it to man and not to the Deity.

