THE BEAST IN THE JUNGLE

CHAPTER I

What determined the speech that startled him in the course of their encounter scarcely matters,
being probably but some words spoken by himself quite without intention--spoken as they lingered
and slowly moved together after their renewal of acquaintance.  He had been conveyed by friends
an hour or two before to the house at which she was staying; the party of visitors at the other
house, of whom he was one, and thanks to whom it was his theory, as always, that he was lost
in the crowd, had been invited over to luncheon.  There had been after luncheon much dispersal,
all in the interest of the original motive, a view of Weatherend itself and the fine things,
intrinsic features, pictures, heirlooms, treasures of all the arts, that made the place almost
famous; and the great rooms were so numerous that guests could wander at their will, hang back
from the principal group and in cases where they took such matters with the last seriousness
give themselves up to mysterious appreciations and measurements.  There were persons to be
observed, singly or in couples, bending toward objects in out-of-the-way corners with their
hands on their knees and their heads nodding quite as with the emphasis of an excited sense
of smell.  When they were two they either mingled their sounds of ecstasy or melted into silences
of even deeper import, so that there were aspects of the occasion that gave it for Marcher
much the air of the "look round," previous to a sale highly advertised, that excites or quenches,
as may be, the dream of acquisition.  The dream of acquisition at Weatherend would have had
to be wild indeed, and John Marcher found himself, among such suggestions, disconcerted almost
equally by the presence of those who knew too much and by that of those who knew nothing. 
The great rooms caused so much poetry and history to press upon him that he needed some straying
apart to feel in a proper relation with them, though this impulse was not, as happened, like
the gloating of some of his companions, to be compared to the movements of a dog sniffing a
cupboard.  It had an issue promptly enough in a direction that was not to have been calculated.

It led, briefly, in the course of the October afternoon, to his closer meeting with May Bartram,
whose face, a reminder, yet not quite a remembrance, as they sat much separated at a very long
table, had begun merely by troubling him rather pleasantly.  It affected him as the sequel
of something of which he had lost the beginning. But as the claim of the city was for a much greater
quantity, the case for its confirmation was still prosecuted. Under the fourth section it was transferred
to the Circuit Court, as already stated; and it was soon afterwards brought to a hearing. On
the 30th of October, 1864, it was decided. For some reason I do not now recall, the District
Judge was unable to sit with me, and the case was, therefore, heard before me alone. I held that
a pueblo of some kind existed at the site of the present city of San Francisco upon the cession
of the country; that as such it was entitled to the possession of certain lands to the extent of
four square leagues; and that the present city had succeeded to such rights, following, in these
particulars, the decision which had previously been made in the case of Hart vs. Burnett,
by the Supreme Court of the State, in which I had participated. I accordingly decided that the
city was entitled to have her claim confirmed to four square leagues of land, subject to certain
reservations. But I also added that the lands to which she was entitled had not been given to
her by the laws of the former government in absolute property with full right of disposition and
alienation, but to be held in trust for the benefit of the whole community, with such powers
of use, disposition, and alienation as had been or might thenceforth be conferred upon her
or her officers for the execution of the trust. The trust character of the city's title was
expressed in the decree of confirmation. The decision was rendered on the 30th of October, 1864,
as stated, and a decree was soon afterwards entered; but as a motion was made for a re-hearing,
the control over it was retained by the Circuit Court until May of the following year. Upon
the suggestion of counsel, it was then modified in some slight particulars so as to limit the confirmation
to land above ordinary high water mark, as it existed at the date of the acquisition of the country,
namely, the 7th of July, 1846. On the 18th of May, 1865, the decree was finally settled and
entered. Appeals from it were prosecuted to the Supreme Court both by the United States and
by the city; by the United States from the whole decree, and by the city from so much of it as
included certain reservations in the estimate of the quantity of
land confirmed.

In October following I proceeded as usual to Washington to attend the then approaching term of
the Supreme Court, and thought no more of the case until my attention was called to it by a
most extraordinary circumstance. Just before leaving San Francisco Mr. Rulofson, a photographer
of note, requested me to sit for a photograph, expressing a desire to add it to his gallery.
I consented, and a photograph of a large size was taken. As I was leaving his rooms he observed
that he intended to make some pictures of a small size from it, and would send me a few copies.
On the morning of the 13th of January following (1866), at Washington, Mr. Delos Lake, a lawyer
of distinction in California, at one time a District Judge of the State, and then District
Attorney of the United States, joined me, remarking, as he did so, that the arrival of the California
steamer at New York had been telegraphed, and he hoped that I had received some letters for
him, as he had directed his letters to be forwarded to my care. I
replied that when I left my room my messenger had not brought my mail;
but if he would accompany me there we would probably find it.  She
confessed to disappointment--she had been so sure he didn't; and to prove how well he did he
began to pour forth the particular recollections that popped up as he called for them.  Her
face and her voice, all at his service now, worked the miracle--the impression operating like
the torch of a lamplighter who touches into flame, one by one, a long row of gas-jets. Marcher
flattered himself the illumination was brilliant, yet he was really still more pleased on her
showing him, with amusement, that in his haste to make everything right he had got most things
rather wrong.  It hadn't been at Rome--it had been at Naples; and it hadn't been eight years
before--it had been more nearly ten.  She hadn't been, either, with her uncle and aunt, but
with her mother and brother; in addition to which it was not with the Pembles he had been,
but with the Boyers, coming down in their company from Rome--a point on which she insisted,
a little to his confusion, and as to which she had her evidence in hand.  The Boyers she had
known, but didn't know the Pembles, though she had heard of them, and it was the people he
was with who had made them acquainted. The incident of the thunderstorm that had raged round
them with such violence as to drive them for refuge into an excavation--this incident had not
occurred at the Palace of the Caesars, but at Pompeii, on an occasion when they had been present
there at an important find.

He accepted her amendments, he enjoyed her corrections, though the moral of them was, she pointed
out, that he really didn't remember the least thing about her; and he only felt it as a drawback
that when all was made strictly historic there didn't appear much of anything left.  They lingered
together still, she neglecting her office--for from the moment he was so clever she had no
proper right to him--and both neglecting the house, just waiting as to see if a memory or two
more wouldn't again breathe on them.  It hadn't taken them many minutes, after all, to put
down on the table, like the cards of a pack, those that constituted their respective hands;
only what came out was that the pack was unfortunately not perfect--that the past, invoked,
invited, encouraged, could give them, naturally, no more than it had.  It had made them anciently
meet--her at twenty, him at twenty-five; but nothing was so strange, they seemed to say to
each other, as that, while so occupied, it hadn't done a little more for them.  They looked
at each other as with the feeling of an occasion missed; the present would have been so much
better if the other, in the far distance, in the foreign land, hadn't been so stupidly meagre.
There weren't, apparently, all counted, more than a dozen little old things that had succeeded
in coming to pass between them; trivialities of youth, simplicities of freshness, stupidities
of ignorance, small possible germs, but too deeply buried--too deeply (didn't it seem?) to
sprout after so many years.  Marcher could only feel he ought to have rendered her some service--saved
her from a capsized boat in the bay or at least recovered her dressing-bag, filched from her
cab in the streets of Naples by a lazzarone with a stiletto.  Or it would have been nice if
he could have been taken with fever all alone at his hotel, and she could have come to look
after him, to write to his people, to drive him out in convalescence.  Then they would be in
possession of the something or other that their actual show seemed to lack.  It yet somehow
presented itself, this show, as too good to be spoiled; so that they were reduced for a few
minutes more to wondering a little helplessly why--since they seemed to know a certain number
of the same people--their reunion had been so long averted.  They didn't use that name for
it, but their delay from minute to minute to join the others was a kind of confession that
they didn't quite want it to be a failure.  Their attempted supposition of reasons for their
not having met but showed how little they knew of each other.  There came in fact a moment
when Marcher felt a positive pang.  It was vain to pretend she was an old friend, for all the
communities were wanting, in spite of which it was as an old friend that he saw she would have
suited him.  He had new ones enough--was surrounded with them for instance on the stage of
the other house; as a new one he probably wouldn't have so much as noticed her.  He would have
liked to invent something, get her to make-believe with him that some passage of a romantic
or critical kind had originally occurred.  He was really almost reaching out in imagination--as
against time--for something that would do, and saying to himself that if it didn't come this
sketch of a fresh start would show for quite awkwardly bungled.  They would separate, and now
for no second or no third chance.  They would have tried and not succeeded.  Then it was, just
at the turn, as he afterwards made it out to himself, that, everything else failing, she herself
decided to take up the case and, as it were, save the situation.  He felt as soon as she spoke
that she had been consciously keeping back what she said and hoping to get on without it; a
scruple in her that immensely touched him when, by the end of three or four minutes more, he
was able to measure it.  What she brought out, at any rate, quite cleared the air and supplied
the link--the link it was so odd he should frivolously have managed to lose.

"You know you told me something I've never forgotten and that again and again has made me think
of you since; it was that tremendously hot day when we went to Sorrento, across the bay, for
the breeze.  What I allude to was what you said to me, on the way back, as we sat under the
awning of the boat enjoying the cool.  Have you forgotten?"

He had forgotten, and was even more surprised than ashamed.  But the great thing was that he
saw in this no vulgar reminder of any "sweet" speech.  The vanity of women had long memories,
but she was making no claim on him of a compliment or a mistake.  With another woman, a totally
different one, he might have feared the recall possibly even some imbecile "offer."  So, in
having to say that he had indeed forgotten, he was conscious rather of a loss than of a gain;
he already saw an interest in the matter of her mention.  "I try to think--but I give it up.
Yet I remember the Sorrento day."

"I'm not very sure you do," May Bartram after a moment said; "and I'm not very sure I ought
to want you to.  It's dreadful to bring a person back at any time to what he was ten years
before.  If you've lived away from it," she smiled, "so much the better."

"Ah if you haven't why should I?" he asked.

"Lived away, you mean, from what I myself was?"

"From what I was.  I was of course an ass," Marcher went on; "but I would rather know from
you just the sort of ass I was than--from the moment you have something in your mind--not know
anything."

Still, however, she hesitated.  "But if you've completely ceased to be that sort--?"

"Why I can then all the more bear to know.  Besides, perhaps I haven't."

"Perhaps.  Yet if you haven't," she added, "I should suppose you'd remember.  Not indeed that
I in the least connect with my impression the invidious name you use.  If I had only thought
you foolish," she explained, "the thing I speak of wouldn't so have remained with me.  It was
about yourself."  She waited as if it might come to him; but as, only meeting her eyes in wonder,
he gave no sign, she burnt her ships.  "Has it ever happened?"

Then it was that, while he continued to stare, a light broke for him and the blood slowly came
to his face, which began to burn with recognition.

"Do you mean I told you--?"  But he faltered, lest what came to him shouldn't be right, lest
he should only give himself away.

"It was something about yourself that it was natural one shouldn't forget--that is if one remembered
you at all.  That's why I ask you," she smiled, "if the thing you then spoke of has ever come
to pass?"

Oh then he saw, but he was lost in wonder and found himself embarrassed. This, he also saw,
made her sorry for him, as if her allusion had been a mistake.  It took him but a moment, however,
to feel it hadn't been, much as it had been a surprise.  After the first little shock of it
her knowledge on the contrary began, even if rather strangely, to taste sweet to him.  She
was the only other person in the world then who would have it, and she had had it all these
years, while the fact of his having so breathed his secret had unaccountably faded from him.
No wonder they couldn't have met as if nothing had happened.  "I judge," he finally said, "that
I know what you mean.  Only I had strangely enough lost any sense of having taken you so far
into my confidence."

"Is it because you've taken so many others as well?"

"I've taken nobody.  Not a creature since then."

"So that I'm the only person who knows?"

"The only person in the world."

"Well," she quickly replied, "I myself have never spoken.  I've never, never repeated of you
what you told me."  She looked at him so that he perfectly believed her.  Their eyes met over
it in such a way that he was without a doubt.  "And I never will."

She spoke with an earnestness that, as if almost excessive, put him at ease about her possible
derision.  Somehow the whole question was a new luxury to him--that is from the moment she
was in possession.  If she didn't take the sarcastic view she clearly took the sympathetic,
and that was what he had had, in all the long time, from no one whomsoever.  What he felt was
that he couldn't at present have begun to tell her, and yet could profit perhaps exquisitely
by the accident of having done so of old.  "Please don't then.  We're just right as it is."

"Oh I am," she laughed, "if you are!"  To which she added: "Then you do still feel in the same
way?"

It was impossible he shouldn't take to himself that she was really interested, though it all
kept coming as a perfect surprise.  He had thought of himself so long as abominably alone,
and lo he wasn't alone a bit.  He hadn't been, it appeared, for an hour--since those moments
on the Sorrento boat.  It was she who had been, he seemed to see as he looked at her--she who
had been made so by the graceless fact of his lapse of fidelity.  To tell her what he had told
her--what had it been but to ask something of her? something that she had given, in her charity,
without his having, by a remembrance, by a return of the spirit, failing another encounter,
so much as thanked her.  What he had asked of her had been simply at first not to laugh at
him.  She had beautifully not done so for ten years, and she was not doing so now.  So he had
endless gratitude to make up.  Only for that he must see just how he had figured to her.  "What,
exactly, was the account I gave--?"

"Of the way you did feel?  Well, it was very simple.  You said you had had from your earliest
time, as the deepest thing within you, the sense of being kept for something rare and strange,
possibly prodigious and terrible, that was sooner or later to happen to you, that you had in
your bones the foreboding and the conviction of, and that would perhaps overwhelm you."

"Do you call that very simple?" John Marcher asked.

She thought a moment.  "It was perhaps because I seemed, as you spoke, to understand it."

"You do understand it?" he eagerly asked.

Again she kept her kind eyes on him.  "You still have the belief?"

"Oh!" he exclaimed helplessly.  There was too much to say.

"Whatever it's to be," she clearly made out, "it hasn't yet come."

He shook his head in complete surrender now.  "It hasn't yet come.  Only, you know, it isn't
anything I'm to do, to achieve in the world, to be distinguished or admired for.  I'm not such
an ass as that.  It would be much better, no doubt, if I were."

"It's to be something you're merely to suffer?"

"Well, say to wait for--to have to meet, to face, to see suddenly break out in my life; possibly
destroying all further consciousness, possibly annihilating me; possibly, on the other hand,
only altering everything, striking at the root of all my world and leaving me to the consequences,
however they shape themselves."

She took this in, but the light in her eyes continued for him not to be that of mockery.  "Isn't
what you describe perhaps but the expectation--or at any rate the sense of danger, familiar
to so many people--of falling in love?"

John Marcher thought.  "Did you ask me that before?"

"No--I wasn't so free-and-easy then.  But it's what strikes me now."

"Of course," he said after a moment, "it strikes you.  Of course it strikes me.  Of course
what's in store for me may be no more than that. The only thing is," he went on, "that I think
if it had been that I should by this time know."

"Do you mean because you've been in love?"  And then as he but looked at her in silence: "You've
been in love, and it hasn't meant such a cataclysm, hasn't proved the great affair?"

"Here I am, you see.  It hasn't been overwhelming."

"Then it hasn't been love," said May Bartram.

"Well, I at least thought it was.  I took it for that--I've taken it till now.  It was agreeable,
it was delightful, it was miserable," he explained.  "But it wasn't strange.  It wasn't what
my affair's to be."

"You want something all to yourself--something that nobody else knows or has known?"

"It isn't a question of what I 'want'--God knows I don't want anything. It's only a question
of the apprehension that haunts me--that I live with day by day."

He said this so lucidly and consistently that he could see it further impose itself.  If she
hadn't been interested before she'd have been interested now.

"Is it a sense of coming violence?"

Evidently now too again he liked to talk of it.  "I don't think of it as--when it does come--necessarily
violent.  I only think of it as natural and as of course above all unmistakeable.  I think
of it simply as the thing.  The thing will of itself appear natural."

"Then how will it appear strange?"

Marcher bethought himself.  "It won't--to me."

"To whom then?"

"Well," he replied, smiling at last, "say to you."

"Oh then I'm to be present?"

"Why you are present--since you know."

"I see."  She turned it over.  "But I mean at the catastrophe."

At this, for a minute, their lightness gave way to their gravity; it was as if the long look
they exchanged held them together.  "It will only depend on yourself--if you'll watch with me."

"Are you afraid?" she asked.

"Don't leave me now," he went on.

"Are you afraid?" she repeated.

"Do you think me simply out of my mind?" he pursued instead of answering. "Do I merely strike
you as a harmless lunatic?"

"No," said May Bartram.  "I understand you.  I believe you."

"You mean you feel how my obsession--poor old thing--may correspond to some possible reality?"

"To some possible reality."

"Then you will watch with me?"

She hesitated, then for the third time put her question.  "Are you afraid?"

"Did I tell you I was--at Naples?"

"No, you said nothing about it."

"Then I don't know.  And I should like to know," said John Marcher. "You'll tell me yourself
whether you think so.  If you'll watch with me you'll see."

"Very good then."  They had been moving by this time across the room, and at the door, before
passing out, they paused as for the full wind-up of their understanding.  "I'll watch with
you," said May Bartram.

CHAPTER II

The fact that she "knew"--knew and yet neither chaffed him nor betrayed him--had in a short
time begun to constitute between them a goodly bond, which became more marked when, within
the year that followed their afternoon at Weatherend, the opportunities for meeting multiplied.
The event that thus promoted these occasions was the death of the ancient lady her great-aunt,
under whose wing, since losing her mother, she had to such an extent found shelter, and who,
though but the widowed mother of the new successor to the property, had succeeded--thanks to
a high tone and a high temper--in not forfeiting the supreme position at the great house. 
The deposition of this personage arrived but with her death, which, followed by many changes,
made in particular a difference for the young woman in whom Marcher's expert attention had
recognised from the first a dependent with a pride that might ache though it didn't bristle.
Nothing for a long time had made him easier than the thought that the aching must have been
much soothed by Miss Bartram's now finding herself able to set up a small home in London. 
She had acquired property, to an amount that made that luxury just possible, under her aunt's
extremely complicated will, and when the whole matter began to be straightened out, which indeed
took time, she let him know that the happy issue was at last in view.  He had seen her again
before that day, both because she had more than once accompanied the ancient lady to town and
because he had paid another visit to the friends who so conveniently made of Weatherend one
of the charms of their own hospitality.  These friends had taken him back there; he had achieved
there again with Miss Bartram some quiet detachment; and he had in London succeeded in persuading
her to more than one brief absence from her aunt.  They went together, on these latter occasions,
to the National Gallery and the South Kensington Museum, where, among vivid reminders, they
talked of Italy at large--not now attempting to recover, as at first, the taste of their youth
and their ignorance.  That recovery, the first day at Weatherend, had served its purpose well,
had given them quite enough; so that they were, to Marcher's sense, no longer hovering about
the head-waters of their stream, but had felt their boat pushed sharply off and down the current.

They were literally afloat together; for our gentleman this was marked, quite as marked as
that the fortunate cause of it was just the buried treasure of her knowledge.  He had with
his own hands dug up this little hoard, brought to light--that is to within reach of the dim
day constituted by their discretions and privacies--the object of value the hiding-place of
which he had, after putting it into the ground himself, so strangely, so long forgotten.  The
rare luck of his having again just stumbled on the spot made him indifferent to any other question;
he would doubtless have devoted more time to the odd accident of his lapse of memory if he
hadn't been moved to devote so much to the sweetness, the comfort, as he felt, for the future,
that this accident itself had helped to keep fresh.  It had never entered into his plan that
any one should "know", and mainly for the reason that it wasn't in him to tell any one. That
would have been impossible, for nothing but the amusement of a cold world would have waited
on it.  Since, however, a mysterious fate had opened his mouth betimes, in spite of him, he
would count that a compensation and profit by it to the utmost.  That the right person should
know tempered the asperity of his secret more even than his shyness had permitted him to imagine;
and May Bartram was clearly right, because--well, because there she was.  Her knowledge simply
settled it; he would have been sure enough by this time had she been wrong.  There was that
in his situation, no doubt, that disposed him too much to see her as a mere confidant, taking
all her light for him from the fact--the fact only--of her interest in his predicament; from
her mercy, sympathy, seriousness, her consent not to regard him as the funniest of the funny.
Aware, in fine, that her price for him was just in her giving him this constant sense of his
being admirably spared, he was careful to remember that she had also a life of her own, with
things that might happen to her, things that in friendship one should likewise take account
of. Something fairly remarkable came to pass with him, for that matter, in this connexion--something
represented by a certain passage of his consciousness, in the suddenest way, from one extreme
to the other.

He had thought himself, so long as nobody knew, the most disinterested person in the world,
carrying his concentrated burden, his perpetual suspense, ever so quietly, holding his tongue
about it, giving others no glimpse of it nor of its effect upon his life, asking of them no
allowance and only making on his side all those that were asked.  He hadn't disturbed people
with the queerness of their having to know a haunted man, though he had had moments of rather
special temptation on hearing them say they were forsooth "unsettled."  If they were as unsettled
as he was--he who had never been settled for an hour in his life--they would know what it meant.
Yet it wasn't, all the same, for him to make them, and he listened to them civilly enough.
This was why he had such good--though possibly such rather colourless--manners; this was why,
above all, he could regard himself, in a greedy world, as decently--as in fact perhaps even
a little sublimely--unselfish.  Our point is accordingly that he valued this character quite
sufficiently to measure his present danger of letting it lapse, against which he promised himself
to be much on his guard.  He was quite ready, none the less, to be selfish just a little, since
surely no more charming occasion for it had come to him.  "Just a little," in a word, was just
as much as Miss Bartram, taking one day with another, would let him.  He never would be in
the least coercive, and would keep well before him the lines on which consideration for her--the
very highest--ought to proceed.  He would thoroughly establish the heads under which her affairs,
her requirements, her peculiarities--he went so far as to give them the latitude of that name--would
come into their intercourse.  All this naturally was a sign of how much he took the intercourse
itself for granted.  There was nothing more to be done about that.  It simply existed; had
sprung into being with her first penetrating question to him in the autumn light there at Weatherend.
The real form it should have taken on the basis that stood out large was the form of their
marrying.  But the devil in this was that the very basis itself put marrying out of the question.
His conviction, his apprehension, his obsession, in short, wasn't a privilege he could invite
a woman to share; and that consequence of it was precisely what was the matter with him.  Something
or other lay in wait for him, amid the twists and the turns of the months and the years, like
a crouching Beast in the Jungle.  It signified little whether the crouching Beast were destined
to slay him or to be slain.  The definite point was the inevitable spring of the creature;
and the definite lesson from that was that a man of feeling didn't cause himself to be accompanied
by a lady on a tiger-hunt.  Such was the image under which he had ended by figuring his life.

They had at first, none the less, in the scattered hours spent together, made no allusion to
that view of it; which was a sign he was handsomely alert to give that he didn't expect, that
he in fact didn't care, always to be talking about it.  Such a feature in one's outlook was
really like a hump on one's back.  The difference it made every minute of the day existed quite
independently of discussion.  One discussed of course like a hunchback, for there was always,
if nothing else, the hunchback face.  That remained, and she was watching him; but people watched
best, as a general thing, in silence, so that such would be predominantly the manner of their
vigil.  Yet he didn't want, at the same time, to be tense and solemn; tense and solemn was
what he imagined he too much showed for with other people.  The thing to be, with the one person
who knew, was easy and natural--to make the reference rather than be seeming to avoid it, to
avoid it rather than be seeming to make it, and to keep it, in any case, familiar, facetious
even, rather than pedantic and portentous.  Some such consideration as the latter was doubtless
in his mind for instance when he wrote pleasantly to Miss Bartram that perhaps the great thing
he had so long felt as in the lap of the gods was no more than this circumstance, which touched
him so nearly, of her acquiring a house in London.  It was the first allusion they had yet
again made, needing any other hitherto so little; but when she replied, after having given
him the news, that she was by no means satisfied with such a trifle as the climax to so special
a suspense, she almost set him wondering if she hadn't even a larger conception of singularity
for him than he had for himself.  He was at all events destined to become aware little by little,
as time went by, that she was all the while looking at his life, judging it, measuring it,
in the light of the thing she knew, which grew to be at last, with the consecration of the
years, never mentioned between them save as "the real truth" about him.  That had always been
his own form of reference to it, but she adopted the form so quietly that, looking back at
the end of a period, he knew there was no moment at which it was traceable that she had, as
he might say, got inside his idea, or exchanged the attitude of beautifully indulging for that
of still more beautifully believing him.

It was always open to him to accuse her of seeing him but as the most harmless of maniacs,
and this, in the long run--since it covered so much ground--was his easiest description of
their friendship.  He had a screw loose for her but she liked him in spite of it and was practically,
against the rest of the world, his kind wise keeper, unremunerated but fairly amused and, in
the absence of other near ties, not disreputably occupied.  The rest of the world of course
thought him queer, but she, she only, knew how, and above all why, queer; which was precisely
what enabled her to dispose the concealing veil in the right folds.  She took his gaiety from
him--since it had to pass with them for gaiety--as she took everything else; but she certainly
so far justified by her unerring touch his finer sense of the degree to which he had ended
by convincing her.  She at least never spoke of the secret of his life except as "the real
truth about you," and she had in fact a wonderful way of making it seem, as such, the secret
of her own life too.  That was in fine how he so constantly felt her as allowing for him; he
couldn't on the whole call it anything else.  He allowed for himself, but she, exactly, allowed
still more; partly because, better placed for a sight of the matter, she traced his unhappy
perversion through reaches of its course into which he could scarce follow it.  He knew how
he felt, but, besides knowing that, she knew how he looked as well; he knew each of the things
of importance he was insidiously kept from doing, but she could add up the amount they made,
understand how much, with a lighter weight on his spirit, he might have done, and thereby establish
how, clever as he was, he fell short. Above all she was in the secret of the difference between
the forms he went through--those of his little office under Government, those of caring for
his modest patrimony, for his library, for his garden in the country, for the people in London
whose invitations he accepted and repaid--and the detachment that reigned beneath them and
that made of all behaviour, all that could in the least be called behaviour, a long act of
dissimulation.  What it had come to was that he wore a mask painted with the social simper,
out of the eye-holes of which there looked eyes of an expression not in the least matching
the other features.  This the stupid world, even after years, had never more than half discovered.
It was only May Bartram who had, and she achieved, by an art indescribable, the feat of at
once--or perhaps it was only alternately--meeting the eyes from in front and mingling her own
vision, as from over his shoulder, with their peep through the apertures.

So while they grew older together she did watch with him, and so she let this association give
shape and colour to her own existence.  Beneath her forms as well detachment had learned to
sit, and behaviour had become for her, in the social sense, a false account of herself.  There
was but one account of her that would have been true all the while and that she could give
straight to nobody, least of all to John Marcher.  Her whole attitude was a virtual statement,
but the perception of that only seemed called to take its place for him as one of the many
things necessarily crowded out of his consciousness.  If she had moreover, like himself, to
make sacrifices to their real truth, it was to be granted that her compensation might have
affected her as more prompt and more natural.  They had long periods, in this London time,
during which, when they were together, a stranger might have listened to them without in the
least pricking up his ears; on the other hand the real truth was equally liable at any moment
to rise to the surface, and the auditor would then have wondered indeed what they were talking
about.  They had from an early hour made up their mind that society was, luckily, unintelligent,
and the margin allowed them by this had fairly become one of their commonplaces.  Yet there
were still moments when the situation turned almost fresh--usually under the effect of some
expression drawn from herself.  Her expressions doubtless repeated themselves, but her intervals
were generous.  "What saves us, you know, is that we answer so completely to so usual an appearance:
that of the man and woman whose friendship has become such a daily habit--or almost--as to
be at last indispensable."  That for instance was a remark she had frequently enough had occasion
to make, though she had given it at different times different developments.  What we are especially
concerned with is the turn it happened to take from her one afternoon when he had come to see
her in honour of her birthday.  This anniversary had fallen on a Sunday, at a season of thick
fog and general outward gloom; but he had brought her his customary offering, having known
her now long enough to have established a hundred small traditions.  It was one of his proofs
to himself, the present he made her on her birthday, that he hadn't sunk into real selfishness.
It was mostly nothing more than a small trinket, but it was always fine of its kind, and he
was regularly careful to pay for it more than he thought he could afford.  "Our habit saves
you, at least, don't you see? because it makes you, after all, for the vulgar, indistinguishable
from other men.  What's the most inveterate mark of men in general?  Why the capacity to spend
endless time with dull women--to spend it I won't say without being bored, but without minding
that they are, without being driven off at a tangent by it; which comes to the same thing.
I'm your dull woman, a part of the daily bread for which you pray at church.  That covers your
tracks more than anything."

"And what covers yours?" asked Marcher, whom his dull woman could mostly to this extent amuse.
"I see of course what you mean by your saving me, in this way and that, so far as other people
are concerned--I've seen it all along.  Only what is it that saves you?  I often think, you
know, of that."

She looked as if she sometimes thought of that too, but rather in a different way.  "Where
other people, you mean, are concerned?"

"Well, you're really so in with me, you know--as a sort of result of my being so in with yourself.
I mean of my having such an immense regard for you, being so tremendously mindful of all you've
done for me.  I sometimes ask myself if it's quite fair.  Fair I mean to have so involved and--since
one may say it--interested you.  I almost feel as if you hadn't really had time to do anything
else."

"Anything else but be interested?" she asked.  "Ah what else does one ever want to be?  If
I've been 'watching' with you, as we long ago agreed I was to do, watching's always in itself
an absorption."

"Oh certainly," John Marcher said, "if you hadn't had your curiosity--! Only doesn't it sometimes
come to you as time goes on that your curiosity isn't being particularly repaid?"

May Bartram had a pause.  "Do you ask that, by any chance, because you feel at all that yours
isn't?  I mean because you have to wait so long."

Oh he understood what she meant!  "For the thing to happen that never does happen?  For the
Beast to jump out?  No, I'm just where I was about it.  It isn't a matter as to which I can
choose, I can decide for a change.  It isn't one as to which there can be a change.  It's in
the lap of the gods.  One's in the hands of one's law--there one is.  As to the form the law
will take, the way it will operate, that's its own affair."

"Yes," Miss Bartram replied; "of course one's fate's coming, of course it has come in its own
form and its own way, all the while.  Only, you know, the form and the way in your case were
to have been--well, something so exceptional and, as one may say, so particularly your own."

Something in this made him look at her with suspicion.  "You say 'were to have been,' as if
in your heart you had begun to doubt."

"Oh!" she vaguely protested.

"As if you believed," he went on, "that nothing will now take place."

She shook her head slowly but rather inscrutably.  "You're far from my thought."

He continued to look at her.  "What then is the matter with you?"

"Well," she said after another wait, "the matter with me is simply that I'm more sure than
ever my curiosity, as you call it, will be but too well repaid."

They were frankly grave now; he had got up from his seat, had turned once more about the little
drawing-room to which, year after year, he brought his inevitable topic; in which he had, as
he might have said, tasted their intimate community with every sauce, where every object was
as familiar to him as the things of his own house and the very carpets were worn with his fitful
walk very much as the desks in old counting-houses are worn by the elbows of generations of
clerks.  The generations of his nervous moods had been at work there, and the place was the
written history of his whole middle life.  Under the impression of what his friend had just
said he knew himself, for some reason, more aware of these things; which made him, after a
moment, stop again before her.  "Is it possibly that you've grown afraid?"

"Afraid?"  He thought, as she repeated the word, that his question had made her, a little,
change colour; so that, lest he should have touched on a truth, he explained very kindly: "You
remember that that was what you asked me long ago--that first day at Weatherend."

"Oh yes, and you told me you didn't know--that I was to see for myself. We've said little about
it since, even in so long a time."

"Precisely," Marcher interposed--"quite as if it were too delicate a matter for us to make
free with.  Quite as if we might find, on pressure, that I am afraid.  For then," he said,
"we shouldn't, should we? quite know what to do."

She had for the time no answer to this question.  "There have been days when I thought you
were.  Only, of course," she added, "there have been days when we have thought almost anything."

"Everything.  Oh!" Marcher softly groaned, as with a gasp, half spent, at the face, more uncovered
just then than it had been for a long while, of the imagination always with them.  It had always
had it's incalculable moments of glaring out, quite as with the very eyes of the very Beast,
and, used as he was to them, they could still draw from him the tribute of a sigh that rose
from the depths of his being.  All they had thought, first and last, rolled over him; the past
seemed to have been reduced to mere barren speculation.  This in fact was what the place had
just struck him as so full of--the simplification of everything but the state of suspense.
That remained only by seeming to hang in the void surrounding it.  Even his original fear,
if fear it as had been, had lost itself in the desert.  "I judge, however," he continued, "that
you see I'm not afraid now."

"What I see, as I make it out, is that you've achieved something almost unprecedented in the
way of getting used to danger.  Living with it so long and so closely you've lost your sense
of it; you know it's there, but you're indifferent, and you cease even, as of old, to have
to whistle in the dark.  Considering what the danger is," May Bartram wound up, "I'm bound
to say I don't think your attitude could well be surpassed."

John Marcher faintly smiled.  "It's heroic?"

"Certainly--call it that."

It was what he would have liked indeed to call it.  "I am then a man of courage?"

"That's what you were to show me."

He still, however, wondered.  "But doesn't the man of courage know what he's afraid of--or
not afraid of? If it were not disrespectful I would ask, has he ever read the decision which he
now tells us is an insuperable barrier to the adoption of this great
measure of justice?

In the consideration of this subject, has not the judgment of the
gentleman from Georgia been warped by the ghost of the dead doctrines
of States-rights?

Has he been altogether free from prejudices engendered by long training in that school of
politics that well-nigh destroyed this Government?

Mr. Speaker, I venture to say here in the presence of the gentleman from Kentucky, and the gentleman
from Georgia, and in the presence of the whole country, that there is not a line or word, not
a thought or dictum even, in the decision of the Supreme Court in the great Slaughter-house
cases, which casts a shadow of doubt on the right of Congress to pass the pending bill, or
to adopt such other legislation as it may judge proper and necessary
to secure perfect equality before the law to every citizen of the
Republic.

Sir, I protest against the dishonor now cast upon our Supreme Court by both the gentleman from
Kentucky and the gentleman from Georgia. In other days, when the whole country was bowing beneath
the yoke of slavery, when press, pulpit, platform, Congress and courts
felt the fatal power of the slave oligarchy, I remember a decision
of that court which no American now reads without shame and humiliation.

But those days are past; the Supreme Court of to-day is a tribunal
as true to freedom as any department of this Government, and I am
honored with the opportunity of repelling a deep disgrace which the
gentleman from Kentucky, backed and sustained as he is by the gentleman
from Georgia, seeks to put upon it.

* * * * *

The amendments in the Slaughter-house cases one and all, are thus declared to have as their
all-pervading design and ends the security of the recently enslaved race, not only their nominal
freedom, but their complete protection from those who had formerly exercised unlimited dominion
over them. It is in this broad light that all these amendments must be read, the purpose to
secure the perfect equality before the law of all citizens of the United States. What you give to one
class you must give to all, what you deny to one class you shall deny to all, unless in the
exercise of the common and universal police power of the State, you find it needful to confer
exclusive privileges on certain citizens, to be held and exercised still for the common good of all.

Such
are the doctrines of the Slaughter-house cases--doctrines worthy of the Republic, worthy of
the age, worthy of the great tribunal which thus loftily and impressively enunciates them. Do
they--I put it to any man, be he lawyer or not; I put it to the gentleman from Georgia--do they
give color even to the claim that this Congress may not now legislate against a plain discrimination
made by State laws or State customs against that very race for whose complete freedom and protection
these great amendments were elaborated and adopted? Is it pretended, I ask the honorable gentleman
from Kentucky or the honorable gentleman from Georgia--is it pretended anywhere that the evils of which
we complain, our exclusion from the public inn, from the saloon and table of the steamboat, from the
sleeping-coach on the railway, from the right of sepulture in the public burial-ground, are
an exercise of the police power of the State? Is such oppression and injustice nothing but the
exercise by the State of the right to make regulations for the health, comfort, and security
of all her citizens? Is it merely enacting that one man shall so
use his own as not to injure anothers?

Is the colored race to be assimilated to an unwholesome trade or
to combustible materials, to be interdicted, to be shut up within
prescribed limits?

Let the gentleman from Kentucky or the gentleman from Georgia answer.



"I see," Marcher returned.  "'Humanly,' no doubt, as showing that you're living for something.
Not, that is, just for me and my secret."

May Bartram smiled.  "I don't pretend it exactly shows that I'm not living for you.  It's my
intimacy with you that's in question."

He laughed as he saw what she meant.  "Yes, but since, as you say, I'm only, so far as people
make out, ordinary, you're--aren't you? no more than ordinary either.  You help me to pass
for a man like another.  So if I am, as I understand you, you're not compromised.  Is that it?"

She had another of her waits, but she spoke clearly enough.  "That's it. It's all that concerns
me--to help you to pass for a man like another."

He was careful to acknowledge the remark handsomely.  "How kind, how beautiful, you are to
me!  How shall I ever repay you?"

She had her last grave pause, as if there might be a choice of ways.  But she chose.  "By going
on as you are."

It was into this going on as he was that they relapsed, and really for so long a time that
the day inevitably came for a further sounding of their depths.  These depths, constantly bridged
over by a structure firm enough in spite of its lightness and of its occasional oscillation
in the somewhat vertiginous air, invited on occasion, in the interest of their nerves, a dropping
of the plummet and a measurement of the abyss.  A difference had been made moreover, once for
all, by the fact that she had all the while not appeared to feel the need of rebutting his
charge of an idea within her that she didn't dare to express--a charge uttered just before
one of the fullest of their later discussions ended.  It had come up for him then that she
"knew" something and that what she knew was bad--too bad to tell him.  When he had spoken of
it as visibly so bad that she was afraid he might find it out, her reply had left the matter
too equivocal to be let alone and yet, for Marcher's special sensibility, almost too formidable
again to touch.  He circled about it at a distance that alternately narrowed and widened and
that still wasn't much affected by the consciousness in him that there was nothing she could
"know," after all, any better than he did.  She had no source of knowledge he hadn't equally--except
of course that she might have finer nerves.  That was what women had where they were interested;
they made out things, where people were concerned, that the people often couldn't have made
out for themselves.  Their nerves, their sensibility, their imagination, were conductors and
revealers, and the beauty of May Bartram was in particular that she had given herself so to
his case.  He felt in these days what, oddly enough, he had never felt before, the growth of
a dread of losing her by some catastrophe--some catastrophe that yet wouldn't at all be the
catastrophe: partly because she had almost of a sudden begun to strike him as more useful to
him than ever yet, and partly by reason of an appearance of uncertainty in her health, co-incident
and equally new.  It was characteristic of the inner detachment he had hitherto so successfully
cultivated and to which our whole account of him is a reference, it was characteristic that
his complications, such as they were, had never yet seemed so as at this crisis to thicken
about him, even to the point of making him ask himself if he were, by any chance, of a truth,
within sight or sound, within touch or reach, within the immediate jurisdiction, of the thing
that waited.

When the day came, as come it had to, that his friend confessed to him her fear of a deep disorder
in her blood, he felt somehow the shadow of a change and the chill of a shock.  He immediately
began to imagine aggravations and disasters, and above all to think of her peril as the direct
menace for himself of personal privation.  This indeed gave him one of those partial recoveries
of equanimity that were agreeable to him--it showed him that what was still first in his mind
was the loss she herself might suffer.  "What if she should have to die before knowing, before
seeing--?"  It would have been brutal, in the early stages of her trouble, to put that question
to her; but it had immediately sounded for him to his own concern, and the possibility was
what most made him sorry for her.  If she did "know," moreover, in the sense of her having
had some--what should he think?--mystical irresistible light, this would make the matter not
better, but worse, inasmuch as her original adoption of his own curiosity had quite become
the basis of her life.  She had been living to see what would be to be seen, and it would quite
lacerate her to have to give up before the accomplishment of the vision.  These reflexions,
as I say, quickened his generosity; yet, make them as he might, he saw himself, with the lapse
of the period, more and more disconcerted.  It lapsed for him with a strange steady sweep,
and the oddest oddity was that it gave him, independently of the threat of much inconvenience,
almost the only positive surprise his career, if career it could be called, had yet offered
him.  She kept the house as she had never done; he had to go to her to see her--she could meet
him nowhere now, though there was scarce a corner of their loved old London in which she hadn't
in the past, at one time or another, done so; and he found her always seated by her fire in
the deep old-fashioned chair she was less and less able to leave.  He had been struck one day,
after an absence exceeding his usual measure, with her suddenly looking much older to him than
he had ever thought of her being; then he recognised that the suddenness was all on his side--he
had just simply and suddenly noticed. She looked older because inevitably, after so many years,
she was old, or almost; which was of course true in still greater measure of her companion.
If she was old, or almost, John Marcher assuredly was, and yet it was her showing of the lesson,
not his own, that brought the truth home to him.  His surprises began here; when once they
had begun they multiplied; they came rather with a rush: it was as if, in the oddest way in
the world, they had all been kept back, sown in a thick cluster, for the late afternoon of
life, the time at which for people in general the unexpected has died out.

One of them was that he should have caught himself--for he had so done--really wondering if
the great accident would take form now as nothing more than his being condemned to see this
charming woman, this admirable friend, pass away from him.  He had never so unreservedly qualified
her as while confronted in thought with such a possibility; in spite of which there was small
doubt for him that as an answer to his long riddle the mere effacement of even so fine a feature
of his situation would be an abject anticlimax.  It would represent, as connected with his
past attitude, a drop of dignity under the shadow of which his existence could only become
the most grotesques of failures.  He had been far from holding it a failure--long as he had
waited for the appearance that was to make it a success.  He had waited for quite another thing,
not for such a thing as that.  The breath of his good faith came short, however, as he recognised
how long he had waited, or how long at least his companion had.  That she, at all events, might
be recorded as having waited in vain--this affected him sharply, and all the more because of
his it first having done little more than amuse himself with the idea.  It grew more grave
as the gravity of her condition grew, and the state of mind it produced in him, which he himself
ended by watching as if it had been some definite disfigurement of his outer person, may pass
for another of his surprises.  This conjoined itself still with another, the really stupefying
consciousness of a question that he would have allowed to shape itself had he dared.  What
did everything mean--what, that is, did she mean, she and her vain waiting and her probable
death and the soundless admonition of it all--unless that, at this time of day, it was simply,
it was overwhelmingly too late? He had never at any stage of his queer consciousness admitted
the whisper of such a correction; he had never till within these last few months been so false
to his conviction as not to hold that what was to come to him had time, whether he struck himself
as having it or not.  That at last, at last, he certainly hadn't it, to speak of, or had it
but in the scantiest measure--such, soon enough, as things went with him, became the inference
with which his old obsession had to reckon: and this it was not helped to do by the more and
more confirmed appearance that the great vagueness casting the long shadow in which he had
lived had, to attest itself, almost no margin left.  Since it was in Time that he was to have
met his fate, so it was in Time that his fate was to have acted; and as he waked up to the
sense of no longer being young, which was exactly the sense of being stale, just as that, in
turn, was the sense of being weak, he waked up to another matter beside.  It all hung together;
they were subject, he and the great vagueness, to an equal and indivisible law. When the possibilities
themselves had accordingly turned stale, when the secret of the gods had grown faint, had perhaps
even quite evaporated, that, and that only, was failure.  It wouldn't have been failure to
be bankrupt, dishonoured, pilloried, hanged; it was failure not to be anything.  And so, in
the dark valley into which his path had taken its unlooked-for twist, he wondered not a little
as he groped.  He didn't care what awful crash might overtake him, with what ignominy or what
monstrosity he might yet he associated--since he wasn't after all too utterly old to suffer--if
it would only be decently proportionate to the posture he had kept, all his life, in the threatened
presence of it.  He had but one desire left--that he shouldn't have been "sold."

CHAPTER IV

Then it was that, one afternoon, while the spring of the year was young and new she met all
in her own way his frankest betrayal of these alarms. He had gone in late to see her, but evening
hadn't settled and she was presented to him in that long fresh light of waning April days which
affects us often with a sadness sharper than the greyest hours of autumn. The week had been
warm, the spring was supposed to have begun early, and May Bartram sat, for the first time
in the year, without a fire; a fact that, to Marcher's sense, gave the scene of which she formed
part a smooth and ultimate look, an air of knowing, in its immaculate order and cold meaningless
cheer, that it would never see a fire again.  Her own aspect--he could scarce have said why--intensified
this note.  Almost as white as wax, with the marks and signs in her face as numerous and as
fine as if they had been etched by a needle, with soft white draperies relieved by a faded
green scarf on the delicate tone of which the years had further refined, she was the picture
of a serene and exquisite but impenetrable sphinx, whose head, or indeed all whose person,
might have been powdered with silver.  She was a sphinx, yet with her white petals and green
fronds she might have been a lily too--only an artificial lily, wonderfully imitated and constantly
kept, without dust or stain, though not exempt from a slight droop and a complexity of faint
creases, under some clear glass bell.  The perfection of household care, of high polish and
finish, always reigned in her rooms, but they now looked most as if everything had been wound
up, tucked in, put away, so that she might sit with folded hands and with nothing more to do.
She was "out of it," to Marcher's vision; her work was over; she communicated with him as across
some gulf or from some island of rest that she had already reached, and it made him feel strangely
abandoned.  Was it--or rather wasn't it--that if for so long she had been watching with him
the answer to their question must have swum into her ken and taken on its name, so that her
occupation was verily gone?  He had as much as charged her with this in saying to her, many
months before, that she even then knew something she was keeping from him.  It was a point
he had never since ventured to press, vaguely fearing as he did that it might become a difference,
perhaps a disagreement, between them.  He had in this later time turned nervous, which was
what he in all the other years had never been; and the oddity was that his nervousness should
have waited till he had begun to doubt, should have held off so long as he was sure.  There
was something, it seemed to him, that the wrong word would bring down on his head, something
that would so at least ease off his tension.  But he wanted not to speak the wrong word; that
would make everything ugly.  He wanted the knowledge he lacked to drop on him, if drop it could,
by its own august weight.  If she was to forsake him it was surely for her to take leave. This
was why he didn't directly ask her again what she knew; but it was also why, approaching the
matter from another side, he said to her in the course of his visit: "What do you regard as
the very worst that at this time of day can happen to me?"

He had asked her that in the past often enough; they had, with the odd irregular rhythm of
their intensities and avoidances, exchanged ideas about it and then had seen the ideas washed
away by cool intervals, washed like figures traced in sea-sand.  It had ever been the mark
of their talk that the oldest allusions in it required but a little dismissal and reaction
to come out again, sounding for the hour as new. She could thus at present meet his enquiry
quite freshly and patiently. "Oh yes, I've repeatedly thought, only it always seemed to me
of old that I couldn't quite make up my mind.  I thought of dreadful things, between which
it was difficult to choose; and so must you have done."

"Rather!  I feel now as if I had scarce done anything else.  I appear to myself to have spent
my life in thinking of nothing but dreadful things. A great many of them I've at different
times named to you, but there were others I couldn't name."

"They were too, too dreadful?"

"Too, too dreadful--some of them."

She looked at him a minute, and there came to him as he met it, an inconsequent sense that
her eyes, when one got their full clearness, were still as beautiful as they had been in youth,
only beautiful with a strange cold light--a light that somehow was a part of the effect, if
it wasn't rather a part of the cause, of the pale hard sweetness of the season and the hour.
"And yet," she said at last, "there are horrors we've mentioned."

It deepened the strangeness to see her, as such a figure in such a picture, talk of "horrors,"
but she was to do in a few minutes something stranger yet--though even of this he was to take
the full measure but afterwards--and the note of it already trembled.  It was, for the matter
of that, one of the signs that her eyes were having again the high flicker of their prime.
He had to admit, however, what she said.  "Oh yes, there were times when we did go far."  He
caught himself in the act of speaking as if it all were over.  Well, he wished it were; and
the consummation depended for him clearly more and more on his friend.

But she had now a soft smile.  "Oh far--!"

It was oddly ironic.  "Do you mean you're prepared to go further?"

She was frail and ancient and charming as she continued to look at him, yet it was rather as
if she had lost the thread.  "Do you consider that we went far?"

"Why I thought it the point you were just making--that we had looked most things in the face."

"Including each other?"  She still smiled.  "But you're quite right. We've had together great
imaginations, often great fears; but some of them have been unspoken."

"Then the worst--we haven't faced that.  I could face it, I believe, if I knew what you think
it.  I feel," he explained, "as if I had lost my power to conceive such things."  And he wondered
if he looked as blank as he sounded.  "It's spent."

"Then why do you assume," she asked, "that mine isn't?"

"Because you've given me signs to the contrary.  It isn't a question for you of conceiving,
imagining, comparing.  It isn't a question now of choosing."  At last he came out with it.
"You know something I don't. You've shown me that before."

These last words had affected her, he made out in a moment, exceedingly, and she spoke with
firmness.  "I've shown you, my dear, nothing."

He shook his head.  "You can't hide it."

"Oh, oh!" May Bartram sounded over what she couldn't hide.  It was almost a smothered groan.

"You admitted it months ago, when I spoke of it to you as of something you were afraid I should
find out.  Your answer was that I couldn't, that I wouldn't, and I don't pretend I have.  But
you had something therefore in mind, and I see now how it must have been, how it still is,
the possibility that, of all possibilities, has settled itself for you as the worst.  This,"
he went on, "is why I appeal to you.  I'm only afraid of ignorance to-day--I'm not afraid of
knowledge."  And then as for a while she said nothing: "What makes me sure is that I see in
your face and feel here, in this air and amid these appearances, that you're out of it. You've
done.  You've had your experience.  You leave me to my fate."

Well, she listened, motionless and white in her chair, as on a decision to be made, so that
her manner was fairly an avowal, though still, with a small fine inner stiffness, an imperfect
surrender.  "It would be the worst," she finally let herself say.  "I mean the thing I've never
said."

It hushed him a moment.  "More monstrous than all the monstrosities we've named?"

"More monstrous.  Isn't that what you sufficiently express," she asked, "in calling it the worst?"

Marcher thought.  "Assuredly--if you mean, as I do, something that includes all the loss and
all the shame that are thinkable."

"It would if it should happen," said May Bartram.  "What we're speaking of, remember, is only
my idea."

"It's your belief," Marcher returned.  "That's enough for me.  I feel your beliefs are right.
Therefore if, having this one, you give me no more light on it, you abandon me."

"No, no!" she repeated.  "I'm with you--don't you see?--still."  And as to make it more vivid
to him she rose from her chair--a movement she seldom risked in these days--and showed herself,
all draped and all soft, in her fairness and slimness.  "I haven't forsaken you."

It was really, in its effort against weakness, a generous assurance, and had the success of
the impulse not, happily, been great, it would have touched him to pain more than to pleasure.
But the cold charm in her eyes had spread, as she hovered before him, to all the rest of her
person, so that it was for the minute almost a recovery of youth.  He couldn't pity her for
that; he could only take her as she showed--as capable even yet of helping him.  It was as
if, at the same time, her light might at any instant go out; wherefore he must make the most
of it. There passed before him with intensity the three or four things he wanted most to know;
but the question that came of itself to his lips really covered the others.  "Then tell me
if I shall consciously suffer."

She promptly shook her head.  "Never!"

It confirmed the authority he imputed to her, and it produced on him an extraordinary effect.
"Well, what's better than that?  Do you call that the worst?"

"You think nothing is better?" she asked.

She seemed to mean something so special that he again sharply wondered, though still with the
dawn of a prospect of relief.  "Why not, if one doesn't know?"  After which, as their eyes,
over his question, met in a silence, the dawn deepened, and something to his purpose came prodigiously
out of her very face.  His own, as he took it in, suddenly flushed to the forehead, and he
gasped with the force of a perception to which, on the instant, everything fitted.  The sound
of his gasp filled the air; then he became articulate.  "I see--if I don't suffer!"

In her own look, however, was doubt.  "You see what?"

"Why what you mean--what you've always meant."

She again shook her head.  "What I mean isn't what I've always meant. It's different."

"It's something new?"

She hung back from it a little.  "Something new.  It's not what you think.  I see what you think."

His divination drew breath then; only her correction might be wrong.  "It isn't that I am a
blockhead?" he asked between faintness and grimness. "It isn't that it's all a mistake?"

"A mistake?" she pityingly echoed.  That possibility, for her, he saw, would be monstrous;
and if she guaranteed him the immunity from pain it would accordingly not be what she had in
mind.  "Oh no," she declared; "it's nothing of that sort.  You've been right."

Yet he couldn't help asking himself if she weren't, thus pressed, speaking but to save him.
It seemed to him he should be most in a hole if his history should prove all a platitude. 
"Are you telling me the truth, so that I shan't have been a bigger idiot than I can bear to
know? I haven't lived with a vain imagination, in the most besotted illusion? I haven't waited
but to see the door shut in my face?"

She shook her head again.  "However the case stands that isn't the truth.  Whatever the reality,
it is a reality.  The door isn't shut. The door's open," said May Bartram.

"Then something's to come?"

She waited once again, always with her cold sweet eyes on him.  "It's never too late."  She
had, with her gliding step, diminished the distance between them, and she stood nearer to him,
close to him, a minute, as if still charged with the unspoken.  Her movement might have been
for some finer emphasis of what she was at once hesitating and deciding to say.  He had been
standing by the chimney-piece, fireless and sparely adorned, a small perfect old French clock
and two morsels of rosy Dresden constituting all its furniture; and her hand grasped the shelf
while she kept him waiting, grasped it a little as for support and encouragement. She only
kept him waiting, however; that is he only waited.  It had become suddenly, from her movement
and attitude, beautiful and vivid to him that she had something more to give him; her wasted
face delicately shone with it--it glittered almost as with the white lustre of silver in her
expression.  She was right, incontestably, for what he saw in her face was the truth, and strangely,
without consequence, while their talk of it as dreadful was still in the air, she appeared
to present it as inordinately soft.  This, prompting bewilderment, made him but gape the more
gratefully for her revelation, so that they continued for some minutes silent, her face shining
at him, her contact imponderably pressing, and his stare all kind but all expectant.  The end,
none the less, was that what he had expected failed to come to him.  Something else took place
instead, which seemed to consist at first in the mere closing of her eyes.  She gave way at
the same instant to a slow fine shudder, and though he remained staring--though he stared in
fact but the harder--turned off and regained her chair.  It was the end of what she had been
intending, but it left him thinking only of that.

"Well, you don't say--?"

She had touched in her passage a bell near the chimney and had sunk back strangely pale.  "I'm
afraid I'm too ill."

"Too ill to tell me?" it sprang up sharp to him, and almost to his lips, the fear she might
die without giving him light.  He checked himself in time from so expressing his question,
but she answered as if she had heard the words.

"Don't you know--now?"

"'Now'--?"   She had spoken as if some difference had been made within the moment.  But her
maid, quickly obedient to her bell, was already with them.  "I know nothing."  And he was afterwards
to say to himself that he must have spoken with odious impatience, such an impatience as to
show that, supremely disconcerted, he washed his hands of the whole question.

"Oh!" said May Bartram.

"Are you in pain?" he asked as the woman went to her.

"No," said May Bartram.

Her maid, who had put an arm round her as if to take her to her room, fixed on him eyes that
appealingly contradicted her; in spite of which, however, he showed once more his mystification.

"What then has happened?"

She was once more, with her companion's help, on her feet, and, feeling withdrawal imposed
on him, he had blankly found his hat and gloves and had reached the door.  Yet he waited for
her answer.  "What was to," she said.

CHAPTER V

He came back the next day, but she was then unable to see him, and as it was literally the
first time this had occurred in the long stretch of their acquaintance he turned away, defeated
and sore, almost angry--or feeling at least that such a break in their custom was really the
beginning of the end--and wandered alone with his thoughts, especially with the one he was
least able to keep down.  She was dying and he would lose her; she was dying and his life would
end.  He stopped in the Park, into which he had passed, and stared before him at his recurrent
doubt. Away from her the doubt pressed again; in her presence he had believed her, but as he
felt his forlornness he threw himself into the explanation that, nearest at hand, had most
of a miserable warmth for him and least of a cold torment.  She had deceived him to save him--to
put him off with something in which he should be able to rest.  What could the thing that was
to happen to him be, after all, but just this thing that had began to happen?  Her dying, her
death, his consequent solitude--that was what he had figured as the Beast in the Jungle, that
was what had been in the lap of the gods.  He had had her word for it as he left her--what
else on earth could she have meant?  It wasn't a thing of a monstrous order; not a fate rare
and distinguished; not a stroke of fortune that overwhelmed and immortalised; it had only the
stamp of the common doom.  But poor Marcher at this hour judged the common doom sufficient.
It would serve his turn, and even as the consummation of infinite waiting he would bend his
pride to accept it.  He sat down on a bench in the twilight.  He hadn't been a fool.  Something
had been, as she had said, to come. Before he rose indeed it had quite struck him that the
final fact really matched with the long avenue through which he had had to reach it.  As sharing
his suspense and as giving herself all, giving her life, to bring it to an end, she had come
with him every step of the way.  He had lived by her aid, and to leave her behind would be
cruelly, damnably to miss her.  What could be more overwhelming than that?

Well, he was to know within the week, for though she kept him a while at bay, left him restless
and wretched during a series of days on each of which he asked about her only again to have
to turn away, she ended his trial by receiving him where she had always received him.  Yet
she had been brought out at some hazard into the presence of so many of the things that were,
consciously, vainly, half their past, and there was scant service left in the gentleness of
her mere desire, all too visible, to check his obsession and wind up his long trouble.  That
was clearly what she wanted; the one thing more for her own peace while she could still put
out her hand.  He was so affected by her state that, once seated by her chair, he was moved
to let everything go; it was she herself therefore who brought him back, took up again, before
she dismissed him, her last word of the other time.  She showed how she wished to leave their
business in order.  "I'm not sure you understood. You've nothing to wait for more.  It has come."

Oh how he looked at her!  "Really?"

"Really."

"The thing that, as you said, was to?"

"The thing that we began in our youth to watch for."

Face to face with her once more he believed her; it was a claim to which he had so abjectly
little to oppose.  "You mean that it has come as a positive definite occurrence, with a name
and a date?" 

In the very nature of the case, they must be constantly occurring.

A letter was not long since found upon the person of a counterfeiter,
when arrested, addressed to him by some Southern gentleman, in which
the writer says:

"Go among the niggers, find out their marks and
scars; make good descriptions and send to me, and I'll find masters
for 'em."

That is the way men are carried back to slavery.

But in view of all the facts, I say that, if ever again a man is seized near me, and is about
to be carried southward as a slave before any legal investigation has been had, I shall hold
it to be my duty, as I held it that day, to secure for him, if possible, a legal inquiry into
the character of the claim by which he is held. And I go farther; I say that if it is adjudged
illegal to procure even such an investigation, then we are thrown
back upon those last defenses of our rights which cannot be taken
from us, and which God gave us that we need not be slaves.

I ask your Honor, while I say this, to place yourself in my situation,
and you will say with me that, if your brother, if your friend, if
your wife, if your child, had been seized by men who claimed them
as fugitives, and the law of the land forbade you to ask any investigation,
and precluded the possibility of any legal protection or redress--then
you will say with me that you would not only demand the protection
of the law, but you would call in your neighbors and your friends,
and would ask them to say with you, that, these, your friends, could
not be taken into slavery.

And now, I thank you for this leniency, this indulgence, in giving
a man unjustly condemned, by a tribunal before which he is declared
to have no rights, the privilege of speaking in his own behalf.

I know that it will do nothing toward mitigating your sentence, but it is a privilege to be
allowed to speak, and I thank you for it.

I shall submit to the penalty, be it what it may.

But I stand up here to say that if for doing what I did on that day at Wellington, I am to go
to jail for six months, and pay a fine of a thousand dollars, according
to the Fugitive Slave Law, and if such is the protection the laws
of this country afford me, I must take upon myself the responsibility
of self-protection; when I come to be claimed by some perjured wretch
as his slave, I shall never be taken into slavery.

And in that trying hour, I would have others do to me, as I would call upon my friends to
help me; as I would call upon you, your Honor, to help me, as I would call upon you (to the
District Attorney) to help me, and upon you (to Judge Bliss), and you (his counsel) so help me God!
I stand here to say that I will do all I can for any man thus seized and held, though the inevitable
penalty of six months' imprisonment and one thousand dollars fine
for each offense hang over me!

We have all a common humanity, and that humanity will, if rightly exercised, compel us to aid
each other when our rights are invaded.

The man who can see a fellow man wronged and outraged without assisting
him must have lost all the manly feelings of his nature.

You would all assist any man under such circumstances; your manhood would require it; and
no matter what the laws might be, you would honor yourself for doing
it, while your friends and your children to all generations would
honor you for doing it, and every good and honest man would say you
had done right!

(Great and prolonged applause, in spite of the efforts of the Court and marshal.)

Judge Willson remarked: Mr. Langston, you do the Court injustice in
supposing the remarks were called out as a mere idle form, or would
not get a respectful consideration from the Court.

It is not the duty of the Court to make the laws--that is left to other tribunals; but our duty,
under an official oath, is to administer the laws, good or bad, as we find them.

I find many mitigating circumstances in your case, and the sentence
will therefore be, that you pay a fine of one hundred dollars and
the costs of suit, and be imprisoned in jail for twenty days, and
it shall be the duty of the Marshal to see the imprisonment carried
out in this or some other county jail in this district.

YOUNG MEN, TO THE FRONT!

BY HON. RICHARD T. GREENER, LL.



She met him perhaps less directly, but she met him unperturbed.  "You take your 'feelings'
for granted.  You were to suffer your fate.  That was not necessarily to know it."

"How in the world--when what is such knowledge but suffering?"

She looked up at him a while in silence.  "No--you don't understand."

"I suffer," said John Marcher.

"Don't, don't!"

"How can I help at least that?"

"Don't!" May Bartram repeated.

She spoke it in a tone so special, in spite of her weakness, that he stared an instant--stared
as if some light, hitherto hidden, had shimmered across his vision.  Darkness again closed
over it, but the gleam had already become for him an idea.  "Because I haven't the right--?"

"Don't know--when you needn't," she mercifully urged.  "You needn't--for we shouldn't."

"Shouldn't?"  If he could but know what she meant!

"No-- it's too much."

"Too much?" he still asked but with a mystification that was the next moment of a sudden to
give way.  Her words, if they meant something, affected him in this light--the light also of
her wasted face--as meaning all, and the sense of what knowledge had been for herself came
over him with a rush which broke through into a question.  "Is it of that then you're dying?"

She but watched him, gravely at first, as to see, with this, where he was, and she might have
seen something or feared something that moved her sympathy.  "I would live for you still--if
I could."  Her eyes closed for a little, as if, withdrawn into herself, she were for a last
time trying. "But I can't!" she said as she raised them again to take leave of him.

She couldn't indeed, as but too promptly and sharply appeared, and he had no vision of her
after this that was anything but darkness and doom.  They had parted for ever in that strange
talk; access to her chamber of pain, rigidly guarded, was almost wholly forbidden him; he was
feeling now moreover, in the face of doctors, nurses, the two or three relatives attracted
doubtless by the presumption of what she had to "leave," how few were the rights, as they were
called in such cases, that he had to put forward, and how odd it might even seem that their
intimacy shouldn't have given him more of them.  The stupidest fourth cousin had more, even
though she had been nothing in such a person's life.  She had been a feature of features in
his, for what else was it to have been so indispensable?  Strange beyond saying were the ways
of existence, baffling for him the anomaly of his lack, as he felt it to be, of producible
claim.  A woman might have been, as it were, everything to him, and it might yet present him,
in no connexion that any one seemed held to recognise.  If this was the case in these closing
weeks it was the case more sharply on the occasion of the last offices rendered, in the great
grey London cemetery, to what had been mortal, to what had been precious, in his friend.  The
concourse at her grave was not numerous, but he saw himself treated as scarce more nearly concerned
with it than if there had been a thousand others.  He was in short from this moment face to
face with the fact that he was to profit extraordinarily little by the interest May Bartram
had taken in him.  He couldn't quite have said what he expected, but he hadn't surely expected
this approach to a double privation.  Not only had her interest failed him, but he seemed to
feel himself unattended--and for a reason he couldn't seize--by the distinction, the dignity,
the propriety, if nothing else, of the man markedly bereaved.  It was as if, in the view of
society he had not been markedly bereaved, as if there still failed some sign or proof of it,
and as if none the less his character could never be affirmed nor the deficiency ever made
up.  There were moments as the weeks went by when he would have liked, by some almost aggressive
act, to take his stand on the intimacy of his loss, in order that it might be questioned and
his retort, to the relief of his spirit, so recorded; but the moments of an irritation more
helpless followed fast on these, the moments during which, turning things over with a good
conscience but with a bare horizon, he found himself wondering if he oughtn't to have begun,
so to speak, further back.

He found himself wondering indeed at many things, and this last speculation had others to keep
it company.  What could he have done, after all, in her lifetime, without giving them both,
as it were, away? He couldn't have made known she was watching him, for that would have published
the superstition of the Beast.  This was what closed his mouth now--now that the Jungle had
been thrashed to vacancy and that the Beast had stolen away.  It sounded too foolish and too
flat; the difference for him in this particular, the extinction in his life of the element
of suspense, was such as in fact to surprise him.  He could scarce have said what the effect
resembled; the abrupt cessation, the positive prohibition, of music perhaps, more than anything
else, in some place all adjusted and all accustomed to sonority and to attention.  If he could
at any rate have conceived lifting the veil from his image at some moment of the past (what
had he done, after all, if not lift it to her?) so to do this to-day, to talk to people at
large of the Jungle cleared and confide to them that he now felt it as safe, would have been
not only to see them listen as to a goodwife's tale, but really to hear himself tell one. 
What it presently came to in truth was that poor Marcher waded through his beaten grass, where
no life stirred, where no breath sounded, where no evil eye seemed to gleam from a possible
lair, very much as if vaguely looking for the Beast, and still more as if acutely missing it.
He walked about in an existence that had grown strangely more spacious, and, stopping fitfully
in places where the undergrowth of life struck him as closer, asked himself yearningly, wondered
secretly and sorely, if it would have lurked here or there.  It would have at all events sprung;
what was at least complete was his belief in the truth itself of the assurance given him. 
The change from his old sense to his new was absolute and final: what was to happen had so
absolutely and finally happened that he was as little able to know a fear for his future as
to know a hope; so absent in short was any question of anything still to come.  He was to live
entirely with the other question, that of his unidentified past, that of his having to see
his fortune impenetrably muffled and masked.

The torment of this vision became then his occupation; he couldn't perhaps have consented to
live but for the possibility of guessing.  She had told him, his friend, not to guess; she
had forbidden him, so far as he might, to know, and she had even in a sort denied the power
in him to learn: which were so many things, precisely, to deprive him of rest.  It wasn't that
he wanted, he argued for fairness, that anything past and done should repeat itself; it was
only that he shouldn't, as an anticlimax, have been taken sleeping so sound as not to be able
to win back by an effort of thought the lost stuff of consciousness.  He declared to himself
at moments that he would either win it back or have done with consciousness for ever; he made
this idea his one motive in fine, made it so much his passion that none other, to compare with
it, seemed ever to have touched him.  The lost stuff of consciousness became thus for him as
a strayed or stolen child to an unappeasable father; he hunted it up and down very much as
if he were knocking at doors and enquiring of the police.  This was the spirit in which, inevitably,
he set himself to travel; he started on a journey that was to be as long as he could make it;
it danced before him that, as the other side of the globe couldn't possibly have less to say
to him, it might, by a possibility of suggestion, have more.  Before he quitted London, however,
he made a pilgrimage to May Bartram's grave, took his way to it through the endless avenues
of the grim suburban necropolis, sought it out in the wilderness of tombs, and, though he had
come but for the renewal of the act of farewell, found himself, when he had at last stood by
it, beguiled into long intensities.  He stood for an hour, powerless to turn away and yet powerless
to penetrate the darkness of death; fixing with his eyes her inscribed name and date, beating
his forehead against the fact of the secret they kept, drawing his breath, while he waited,
as if some sense would in pity of him rise from the stones.  He kneeled on the stones, however,
in vain; they kept what they concealed; and if the face of the tomb did become a face for him
it was because her two names became a pair of eyes that didn't know him.  He gave them a last
long look, but no palest light broke.

CHAPTER VI

He stayed away, after this, for a year; he visited the depths of Asia, spending himself on
scenes of romantic interest, of superlative sanctity; but what was present to him everywhere
was that for a man who had known what he had known the world was vulgar and vain.  The state
of mind in which he had lived for so many years shone out to him, in reflexion, as a light
that coloured and refined, a light beside which the glow of the East was garish cheap and thin.
The terrible truth was that he had lost--with everything else--a distinction as well the things
he saw couldn't help being common when he had become common to look at them.  He was simply
now one of them himself--he was in the dust, without a peg for the sense of difference; and
there were hours when, before the temples of gods and the sepulchres of kings, his spirit turned
for nobleness of association to the barely discriminated slab in the London suburb.  That had
become for him, and more intensely with time and distance, his one witness of a past glory.
It was all that was left to him for proof or pride, yet the past glories of Pharaohs were nothing
to him as he thought of it.  Small wonder then that he came back to it on the morrow of his
return.  He was drawn there this time as irresistibly as the other, yet with a confidence,
almost, that was doubtless the effect of the many months that had elapsed.  He had lived, in
spite of himself, into his change of feeling, and in wandering over the earth had wandered,
as might be said, from the circumference to the centre of his desert.  He had settled to his
safety and accepted perforce his extinction; figuring to himself, with some colour, in the
likeness of certain little old men he remembered to have seen, of whom, all meagre and wizened
as they might look, it was related that they had in their time fought twenty duels or been
loved by ten princesses.  They indeed had been wondrous for others while he was but wondrous
for himself; which, however, was exactly the cause of his haste to renew the wonder by getting
back, as he might put it, into his own presence.  That had quickened his steps and checked
his delay.  If his visit was prompt it was because he had been separated so long from the part
of himself that alone he now valued.

It's accordingly not false to say that he reached his goal with a certain elation and stood
there again with a certain assurance.  The creature beneath the sod knew of his rare experience,
so that, strangely now, the place had lost for him its mere blankness of expression.  It met
him in mildness--not, as before, in mockery; it wore for him the air of conscious greeting
that we find, after absence, in things that have closely belonged to us and which seem to confess
of themselves to the connexion. Yet for this just and most beneficent judgment there went up
from a multitude, who had become interested in the sales, a fierce howl of rage and hate. Attacks
full of venom were made upon Judge Baldwin and myself, who had agreed
to the decision.  He had not come back this
time with the vanity of that question, his former worrying "What, what?" now practically so
spent.  Yet he would none the less never again so cut himself off from the spot; he would come
back to it every month, for if he did nothing else by its aid he at least held up his head.
It thus grew for him, in the oddest way, a positive resource; he carried out his idea of periodical
returns, which took their place at last among the most inveterate of his habits.  What it all
amounted to, oddly enough, was that in his finally so simplified world this garden of death
gave him the few square feet of earth on which he could still most live.  It was as if, being
nothing anywhere else for any one, nothing even for himself, he were just everything here,
and if not for a crowd of witnesses or indeed for any witness but John Marcher, then by clear
right of the register that he could scan like an open page.  The open page was the tomb of
his friend, and there were the facts of the past, there the truth of his life, there the backward
reaches in which he could lose himself.  He did this from time to time with such effect that
he seemed to wander through the old years with his hand in the arm of a companion who was,
in the most extraordinary manner, his other, his younger self; and to wander, which was more
extraordinary yet, round and round a third presence--not wandering she, but stationary, still,
whose eyes, turning with his revolution, never ceased to follow him, and whose seat was his
point, so to speak, of orientation.  Thus in short he settled to live--feeding all on the sense
that he once had lived, and dependent on it not alone for a support but for an identity.

It sufficed him in its way for months and the year elapsed; it would doubtless even have carried
him further but for an accident, superficially slight, which moved him, quite in another direction,
with a force beyond any of his impressions of Egypt or of India.  It was a thing of the merest
chance--the turn, as he afterwards felt, of a hair, though he was indeed to live to believe
that if light hadn't come to him in this particular fashion it would still have come in another.
He was to live to believe this, I say, though he was not to live, I may not less definitely
mention, to do much else.  We allow him at any rate the benefit of the conviction, struggling
up for him at the end, that, whatever might have happened or not happened, he would have come
round of himself to the light.  The incident of an autumn day had put the match to the train
laid from of old by his misery.  With the light before him he knew that even of late his ache
had only been smothered.  It was strangely drugged, but it throbbed; at the touch it began
to bleed.  And the touch, in the event, was the face of a fellow-mortal.  This face, one grey
afternoon when the leaves were thick in the alleys, looked into Marcher's own, at the cemetery,
with an expression like the cut of a blade.  He felt it, that is, so deep down that he winced
at the steady thrust.  The person who so mutely assaulted him was a figure he had noticed,
on reaching his own goal, absorbed by a grave a short distance away, a grave apparently fresh,
so that the emotion of the visitor would probably match it for frankness.  This fact alone
forbade further attention, though during the time he stayed he remained vaguely conscious of
his neighbour, a middle-aged man apparently, in mourning, whose bowed back, among the clustered
monuments and mortuary yews, was constantly presented.  Marcher's theory that these were elements
in contact with which he himself revived, had suffered, on this occasion, it may be granted,
a marked, an excessive check.  The autumn day was dire for him as none had recently been, and
he rested with a heaviness he had not yet known on the low stone table that bore May Bartram's
name.  He rested without power to move, as if some spring in him, some spell vouchsafed, had
suddenly been broken for ever.  If he could have done that moment as he wanted he would simply
have stretched himself on the slab that was ready to take him, treating it as a place prepared
to receive his last sleep.  What in all the wide world had he now to keep awake for?  He stared
before him with the question, and it was then that, as one of the cemetery walks passed near
him, he caught the shock of the face.

His neighbour at the other grave had withdrawn, as he himself, with force enough in him, would
have done by now, and was advancing along the path on his way to one of the gates.  This brought
him close, and his pace, was slow, so that--and all the more as there was a kind of hunger
in his look--the two men were for a minute directly confronted.  Marcher knew him at once for
one of the deeply stricken--a perception so sharp that nothing else in the picture comparatively
lived, neither his dress, his age, nor his presumable character and class; nothing lived but
the deep ravage of the features that he showed. A year did not elapse before the great good it
had conferred upon the city and settler was seen and appreciated. Since then its doctrines have
been repeatedly re-affirmed. They have been approved by the Supreme Court of the United States;
and now no one doubts their soundness.

After that decision there was still wanting for the complete settlement of titles in the city
the confirmation by the tribunals of the United States of her claim to the lands. The act
of Congress of March 3d, 1851, creating the Board of Land Commissioners, provided that all
claims to land in California, by virtue of any right or title derived
from the Spanish or Mexican government, should be presented to the
board for examination and adjudication.  The most extraordinary thing that had happened to him--though he
had given that name to other matters as well--took place, after his immediate vague stare,
as a consequence of this impression.  The stranger passed, but the raw glare of his grief remained,
making our friend wonder in pity what wrong, what wound it expressed, what injury not to be
healed.  What had the man had, to make him by the loss of it so bleed and yet live?

Something--and this reached him with a pang--that he, John Marcher, hadn't; the proof of which
was precisely John Marcher's arid end.  No passion had ever touched him, for this was what
passion meant; he had survived and maundered and pined, but where had been his deep ravage?
The extraordinary thing we speak of was the sudden rush of the result of this question.  The
sight that had just met his eyes named to him, as in letters of quick flame, something he had
utterly, insanely missed, and what he had missed made these things a train of fire, made them
mark themselves in an anguish of inward throbs.  He had seen outside of his life, not learned
it within, the way a woman was mourned when she had been loved for herself: such was the force
of his conviction of the meaning of the stranger's face, which still flared for him as a smoky
torch. The Van Ness Ordinance had reserved from grant for the uses of the city all the lots which
it then occupied or had set apart for public squares, streets, sites for school-houses, city
hall and other buildings belonging to the corporation, and also such other lots as it might subsequently
select for public purposes within certain designated limits. All these were by the decision
at once released from any possible claim by virtue of sales on executions.
  The name on the table smote him as the passage of his neighbour had done, and what
it said to him, full in the face, was that she was what he had missed.  This was the awful
thought, the answer to all the past, the vision at the dread clearness of which he turned as
cold as the stone beneath him.  Everything fell together, confessed, explained, overwhelmed;
leaving him most of all stupefied at the blindness he had cherished.  The fate he had been
marked for he had met with a vengeance--he had emptied the cup to the lees; he had been the
man of his time, the man, to whom nothing on earth was to have happened.  That was the rare
stroke--that was his visitation.  So he saw it, as we say, in pale horror, while the pieces
fitted and fitted.  So she had seen it while he didn't, and so she served at this hour to drive
the truth home.  It was the truth, vivid and monstrous, that all the while he had waited the
wait was itself his portion.  This the companion of his vigil had at a given moment made out,
and she had then offered him the chance to baffle his doom.  One's doom, however, was never
baffled, and on the day she told him his own had come down she had seen him but stupidly stare
at the escape she offered him.

The escape would have been to love her; then, then he would have lived. She had lived--who
could say now with what passion?--since she had loved him for himself; whereas he had never
thought of her (ah how it hugely glared at him!) but in the chill of his egotism and the light
of her use.  Her spoken words came back to him--the chain stretched and stretched.  The Beast
had lurked indeed, and the Beast, at its hour, had sprung; it had sprung in that twilight of
the cold April when, pale, ill, wasted, but all beautiful, and perhaps even then recoverable,
she had risen from her chair to stand before him and let him imaginably guess.  It had sprung
as he didn't guess; it had sprung as she hopelessly turned from him, and the mark, by the time
he left her, had fallen where it was to fall.  He had justified his fear and achieved his fate;
he had failed, with the last exactitude, of all he was to fail of; and a moan now rose to his
lips as he remembered she had prayed he mightn't know. This horror of waking--this was knowledge,
knowledge under the breath of which the very tears in his eyes seemed to freeze.  Through them,
none the less, he tried to fix it and hold it; he kept it there before him so that he might
feel the pain.  That at least, belated and bitter, had something of the taste of life.  But
the bitterness suddenly sickened him, and it was as if, horribly, he saw, in the truth, in
the cruelty of his image, what had been appointed and done.  He saw the Jungle of his life
and saw the lurking Beast; then, while he looked, perceived it, as by a stir of the air, rise,
huge and hideous, for the leap that was to settle him.  His eyes darkened--it was close; and,
instinctively turning, in his hallucination, to avoid it, he flung himself, face down, on the tomb.

