"Yes," he said at last. "If you are dissatisfied, if you feel that you have reason to believe
that money rightfully belonging to you is being diverted to other channels, you have the right
to issue an injunction against the bank, ordering it not to pay out any further money on any
account nor to honor any cheques drawn by Miss Strong until the settlement of the estate. Ask
your guardian to execute and deliver such an injunction, or merely ask him, as your guardian
and the administrator of the estate, to give the bank a written order to that effect."

"But because he is engaged to Eileen, I told him I would not bring him into this matter," said
Linda. "I told him that I would do what I wanted done, myself."

"Well, how long is it until this coming birthday of yours?" inquired Mr. Worthington.

"Less than two weeks," answered Linda.

For a time the financier sat in deep thought, then he looked at Linda. It was a keen, searching
look. It went to the depths of her eyes; it included her face and hair; it included the folds
of her dress, the cut of her shoe, and rested attentively on the slender hands lying quietly
in her lap.

"I see the circumstances very clearly," he said. "I sympathize with your position. Having known
your father and being well acquainted with your guardian, would you be satisfied if I should
take the responsibility of issuing to the clerks an order not to allow anything to be drawn
from the private account until the settlement of the estate?"

"Perfectly satisfied," said Linda.

"It might be," said Mr. Worthington, "managing matters i that way, that no one outside of ourselves
need ever know of il Should your sister not draw on the private account in the mean time, she
would be free to draw household cheques on the monthly income and if in the settlement of the
estate she turns in this private account or accounts, she need never know of the restriction
concerning this fund."

"Thank you very much," said Linda. "That will fix everything finely."

On her way to the street car, Linda's brain whirled.

"It's not conceivable," she said, "that Eileen should be enriching herself at my expense. I
can't imagine her being dishonest in money affairs, and yet I can recall scarcely a circumstance
in life in which Eileen has ever hesitated to be dishonest when a lie served her purpose better
than the truth. Anyway, matters are safe now."

The next day the books were taken and a cheque for their value was waiting for Linda when she
reached home. She cashed this cheque and went straight to Peter Morrison for his estimate of
the expenses for the skylight and fireplace. When she asked for the bill Peter hesitated.

"You wouldn't accept this little addition to your study as a gift from Henry and me?" he asked
lightly. "It would be a great pleasure to us if you would."

"I could accept stones that Henry Anderson had gathered from the mountains and canyons, and
I could accept a verse carved on stone, and be delighted with the gift; but I couldn't accept
hours of day labor at the present price of labor, so you will have to give me the bill, Peter."

Peter did not have the bill, but he had memoranda, and when Linda paid him she reflected that
the current talk concerning the inflated price of labor was greatly exaggerated.

For two evenings as Linda returned from school and went to her room she glanced down the hall
and smiled at the decoration remaining on Eileen's rug. The third evening it was gone, so that
she knew Eileen was either in her room or had been there. She did not meet her sister until
dinnertime. She was prepared to watch Eileen, to study her closely. She was not prepared to
admire her, but in her heart she almost did that very thing. Eileen had practiced subterfuges
so long, she was so accomplished, that it would have taken an expert to distinguish reality
from subterfuge. She entered the dining room humming a gay tune. She was carefully dressed
and appealingly beautiful. She blew a kiss to Linda and waved gaily to Katy.

"I was rather afraid," she said lightly, "that I might find you two in mourning when I got
back. I never stayed so long before, did I? Seemed as if every friend I had made special demand
on my time all at once. Hope you haven't been dull without me."

"Oh, no," said Linda quietly. "Being away at school all day, of course I wouldn't know whether
you were at home or not, and I have grown so accustomed to spending my evenings alone that
I don't rely on you for entertainment at any time."

"In other words," said Eileen, "it doesn't make any difference to you where I am."

"Not so far as enjoying your company is concerned," said Linda. "Otherwise, of course it makes
a difference. I hope you had a happy time."

"Oh, I always have a happy time," answered Eileen lightly. "I certainly have the best friends."

"That's your good fortune," answered Linda.

At the close of the meal Linda sat waiting. Eileen gave Katy instructions to have things ready
for a midnight lunch for her and John Gilman and then, humming her tune again, she left the
dining room and went upstairs. Linda stood looking after her.

 "Now or never," she said at last.  "I have no business to let
her meet John until I have recovered my self-respect. But the Lord help
me to do the thing decently!"

So she followed Eileen up the stairway. She tapped at the door, and without waiting to hear
whether she was invited or not, opened it and stepped inside. Eileen was sitting before the
window, a big box of candy beside her, a magazine in her fingers.

Evidently she intended to keep her temper in case the coming interview threatened to become
painful.

"I was half expecting you," she said, "you silly hothead. I found the cheque I wrote you when
I got home this afternoon. That was a foolish thing to do. Why did you tear it up? If it were
too large or if it were not enough why didn't you use it and ask for another? Because I had
to be away that was merely to leave you something to go on until I got back."

Then Linda did the most disconcerting thing possible. In her effort at self-control she went
too far. She merely folded her hands in her lap and sat looking straight at Eileen without
saying one word. It did not show much on the surface, but Eileen really had a conscience, she
really had a soul; Linda's eyes, resting rather speculatively on her, were honest eyes, and
Eileen knew what she knew. She flushed and fidgeted, and at last she broke out impatiently:
"Oh, for goodness' sake, Linda, don't play 'Patience-on-a-monument.' Speak up and say what
it is that you want. If that cheque was not big enough, what will satisfy you?"

"Come to think of it," said Linda quietly, "I can get along with what I have for the short
time until the legal settlement of our interests is due. You needn't bother any more about
a cheque."

Eileen was surprised and her face showed it; and she was also relieved. That too her face showed.

"I always knew," she said lightly, "that I had a little sister with a remarkably level head
and good common sense. I am glad that you recognize the awful inflation of prices during the
war period, and how I have had to skimp and scheme and save in order to make ends meet and
to keep us going on Papa's meager income."

All Linda's good resolutions vanished. She was under strong nervous tension. It irritated her
to have Eileen constantly referring to their monetary affairs as if they were practically paupers,
as if their father's life had been a financial failure, as if he had not been able to realize
from achievements recognized around the world a comfortable living for two women.

"Oh, good Lord!" she said shortly. "Bluff the rest of the world like a professional, Eileen,
but why try it with me? You're right about my having common sense. I'll admit that I am using
it now. I will be of age in a few days, and then we'll take John Gilman and go to the Consolidated
Bank, and if it suits your convenience to be absent for four or five days at that period, I'll
take John Gilman and we'll go together."

Eileen was amazed. The receding color in her cheeks left the rouge on them a ghastly, garish thing.

"Well, I won't do anything of the sort," she said hotly, "and neither will John Gilman."

"Unfortunately for you," answered Linda, "John Gilman is my guardian, not yours. He'll be forced
to do what the law says he must, and what common decency tells him he must, no matter what
his personal feelings are; and I might as well tell you that your absence has done you no good.
You'd far better have come home, as you agreed to, and gone over the books and made me a decent
allowance, because in your absence John came here to ask me where you were, and I know that
he was anxious."

"He came here!" cried Eileen.

"Why, yes," said Linda. "Was it anything unusual? Hasn't he been coming here ever since I can
remember? Evidently you didn't keep him as well posted this time as you usually do. He came
here and asked for me."

"And I suppose," said Eileen, an ugly red beginning to rush into her white cheeks, "that you
took pains to make things uncomfortable for me."

"I am very much afraid," said Linda, "that you are right. You have made things uncomfortable
for me ever since I can remember, for I can't remember the time when you were not finding fault
with me, putting me in the wrong and getting me criticized and punished if you possibly could.
It was a fair understanding that you should be here, and you were not, and I was seeing red
about it; and just as John came in I found your note in the living room and read it aloud.'

"Oh, well, there was nothing in that," said Eileen in a relieved tone.

"Nothing in the wording of it, no," said Linda, "but there was everything in the intention
back of it. Because you did not live up to your tacit agreement, and because I had been on
high tension for two or three days, I lost my temper completely. I brought John Gilman up here
and showed him the suite of rooms in which you have done for yourself, for four years. I gave
him rather a thorough inventory of your dressing table and drawers, and then I opened the closet
door and called his attention to the number and the quality of the garments hanging there.
The box underneath them I thought was a shoe box, but it didn't prove to be exactly that; and
for that I want to tell you, as I have already told John, I am sorry. I wouldn't have done
that if I had known what I was doing."

"Is that all?" inquired Eileen, making a desperate effort at self-control.

"Not quite," said Linda. "When I finished with your room, I took him back and showed him mine
in even greater detail than I showed him yours. I thought the contrast would be more enlightening
than anything either one of us could say."

"And I suppose you realize," said Eileen bitterly, "that you lost me John Gilman when you did it."

"I?" said Linda. "I lost you John Gilman when I did it? But I didn't do it. You did it. You
have been busy for four years doing it. If you hadn't done it, it wouldn't have been there
for me to show him. I can't see that this is profitable. Certainly it's the most distressing
thing that ever has occurred for me. But I didn't feel that I could let you meet John Gilman
tonight without telling you what he knows. If you have any way to square your conscience and
cleanse your soul before you meet him, you had better do it, for he's a mighty fine man and
if you lose him you will have lost the best chance that is likely ever to come to you."

Linda sat studying Eileen. She saw the gallant effort she was making to keep her self-possession,
to think with her accustomed rapidity, to strike upon some scheme whereby she could square
herself. She rose and started toward the door.

"What you'll say to John I haven't the faintest notion," she said. "I told him very little.
I just showed him."

Then she went out and closed the door after her. At the foot of the stairs she met Katy admitting
Gilman. Without any preliminaries she said: "I repeat, John, that I'm sorry for what happened
the other day. I have just come from Eileen. She will be down as soon as Katy tells her you're
here, no doubt. I have done what I told you I would. She knows what I showed you so you needn't
employ any subterfuges. You can be frank and honest with each other."

"I wish to God we could," said John Gilman.

Linda went to her work. She decided that she would gauge what happened by the length of time
John stayed. If he remained only a few minutes it would indicate that there had been a rupture.
If he stayed as long as he usually did, the chances were that Eileen's wit had triumphed as usual.

At twelve o'clock Linda laid her pencils in the box, washed the brushes, and went down the
back stairs to the ice chest for a glass of milk. The living room was still lighted and Linda
thought Eileen's laugh quite as gay as she ever had heard it. Linda closed her lips very tight
and slowly climbed the stairs. When she entered her room she walked up to the mirror and stared
at herself in the glass for a long time, and then of herself she asked this question:

"Well, how do you suppose she did it?"

CHAPTER XVIII. Spanish Iris

Just as Linda was most deeply absorbed with her own concerns there came a letter from Marian
which Linda read and reread several times; for Marian wrote:

MY DEAREST PAL:

Life is so busy up San Francisco way that it makes Lilac Valley look in retrospection like
a peaceful sunset preliminary to bed time.

But I want you to have the consolation and the comfort of knowing that I have found at least
two friends that I hope will endure. One is a woman who has a room across the hall from mine
in my apartment house. She is a newspaper woman and life is very full for her, but it is filled
with such intensely interesting things that I almost regret having made my life work anything
so prosaic as inanimate houses; but then it's my dream to enliven each house I plan with at
least the spirit of home. This woman--her name is Dana Meade--enlivens every hour of her working
day with something concerning the welfare of humanity. She is a beautiful woman in her soul,
so extremely beautiful that I can't at this minute write you a detailed description of her
hair and her eyes and her complexion, because this nice, big, friendly light that radiates
from her so lights her up and transfigures her that everyone says how beautiful she is, and
yet I have a vague recollection that her nose is what you would call a "beak," and I am afraid
her cheek bones are too high for good proportion, and I know that her hair is not always so
carefully dressed as it should be, but what is the difference when the hair is crowned with
a halo? I can't swear to any of these things; they're sketchy impressions. The only thing I
am absolutely sure about is the inner light that shines to an unbelievable degree. I wish she
had more time and I wish I had more time and that she and I might become such friends as you
and I are. I can't tell you, dear, how much I think of you. It seems to me that you're running
a sort of undercurrent in my thoughts all day long.

You will hardly credit it, Linda, but a few days ago I drove a car through the thickest traffic,
up a steep hill, and round a curve. I did it, but practically collapsed when it was over. The
why of it was this: I think I told you before that in the offices of Nicholson and Snow there
is a man who is an understanding person. He is the junior partner and his name is Eugene Snow.
I happened to arrive at his desk the day I came for my instructions and to make my plans for
entering their contest. He was very kind to me and went out of his way to smooth out the rough
places. Ever since, he makes a point of coming to me and talking a few minutes when I am at
the office or when he passes me on my way to the drafting rooms where I take my lessons. The
day I mention I had worked late and hard the night before. I had done the last possible thing
to the plans for my dream house. At the last minute, getting it all on paper, working at the
specifications, at which you know I am wobbly, was nervous business; and when I came from the
desk after having turned in my plans, perhaps I showed fatigue. Anyway, he said to me that
his car was below. He said also that he was a lonely person, having lost his wife two years
ago, and not being able very frequently to see his little daughter who is in the care of her
grandmother, there were times when he was hungry for the companionship he had lost. He asked
me if I would go with him for a drive and I told him that I would. I am rather stunned yet
over what happened. The runabout he led me to was greatly like yours, and, Linda, he stopped
at a florist's and came out with an armload of bloom--exquisite lavender and pale pink and
faint yellow and waxen white--the most enticing armload of spring. For one minute I truly experienced
a thrill. I thought he was going to give that mass of flowers to me, but he did not. He merely
laid it across my lap and said: "Edith adored the flowers from bulbs. I never see such bloom
that my heart does not ache with a keen, angry ache to think that she should be taken from
the world, and the beauty that she so loved, so early and so ruthlessly. We'll take her these
as I would take them to her were she living."

So, Linda dear, I sat there and looked at color and drank in fragrance, and we whirled through
the city and away to a cemetery on a beautiful hill, and filled a vase inside the gates of
a mausoleum with these appealing flowers. Then we sat down, and a man with a hurt heart told
me about his hurt, and what an effort he was making to get through the world as the woman he
loved would have had him; and before I knew what I was doing, Linda, I told him the tellable
part of my own hurts. I even lifted my turban and bowed my white head before him. This hurt--it
was one of the inexorable things that come to people in this world--I could talk about. That
deeper hurt, which has put a scar that never will be effaced on my soul, of course I could
not tell him about. But when we went back to the car he said to me that he would help me to
get back into the sunlight. He said the first thing I must do to regain self-confidence was
to begin driving again. I told him I could not, but he said I must, and made me take the driver's
seat of a car I had never seen and take the steering wheel of a make of machine I had never
driven, and tackle two or three serious problems for a driver. I did it all right, Linda, because
I couldn't allow myself to fail the kind of a man Mr. Snow is, when he was truly trying to
help me, but in the depths of my heart I am afraid I am a coward forever, for there is a ghastly
illness takes possession of me as I write these details to you. But anyway, put a red mark
on your calendar beside the date on which you get this letter, and joyfully say to yourself
that Marian has found two real, sympathetic friends.

In a week or ten days I shall know about the contest. If I win, as I really have a sneaking
hope that I shall, since I have condensed the best of two dozen houses into one and exhausted
my imagination on my dream home, I will surely telegraph, and you can make it a day of jubilee.
If I fail, I will try to find out where my dream was not true and what can be done to make
it materialize properly; but between us, Linda girl, I am going to be dreadfully disappointed.
I could use the material value that prize represents. I could start my life work which I hope
to do in Lilac Valley on the prestige and the background that it would give me. I don't know,
Linda, whether you ever learned to pray or not, but I have, and it's a thing that helps when
the black shadow comes, when you reach the land of "benefits forgot and friends remembered not."

And this reminds me that I should not write to my very dearest friend who has her own problems
and make her heart sad with mine; so to the joyful news of my two friends add a third, Linda,
for I am going to tell you a secret because it will make you happy. Since I have been in San
Francisco some man, who for a reason of his own does not tell me his name, has been writing
me extremely attractive letters. I have had several of them and I can't tell you, Linda, what
they mean to me or how they help me. There is a touch of whimsy about them. I can't as yet
connect them with anybody I ever met, but to me they are taking the place of a little lunch
on the bread of life. They are such real, such vivid, such alive letters from such a real person
that I have been doing the very foolish and romantic thing of answering them as my heart dictates
and signing my own name to them, which on the surface looks unwise when the man in the case
keeps his identity in the background; but since he knows me and knows my name it seems useless
to do anything else: and answer these letters I shall and must; because every one of them is
to me a strong light thrown on John Gilman. Every time one of these letters comes to me I have
the feeling that I would like to reach out through space and pick up the man who is writing
them and dangle him before Eileen and say to her: "Take HIM. I dare you to take HIM." And my
confidence, Linda, is positively supreme that she could not do it.

You know, between us, Linda, we regarded Eileen as a rare creature, a kind of exotic thing,
made to be kept in a glass house with tempered air and warmed water; but as I go about the
city and at times amuse myself at concerts and theaters, I am rather dazed to tell you, honey,
that the world is chock full of Eileens. On the streets, in the stores, everywhere I go, sometimes
half a dozen times in a day I say to myself: "There goes Eileen." I haven't a doubt that Eileen
has a heart, if it has not become so calloused that nobody could ever reach it, and I suspect
she has a soul, but the more I see of her kind the more I feel that John Gilman may have to
breast rather black water before he finds them.

With dearest love, be sure to remember me to Katherine O'Donovan. Hug her tight and give her
my unqualified love. Don't let her forget me.

As ever,

MARIAN.

This was the letter that Linda read once, then she read it again and then she read it a third
time, and after that she lost count and reread it whenever she was not busy doing something
else, for it was a letter that was the next thing to laying hands upon Marian. The part of
the letter concerning the unknown man who was writing Marian, Linda pondered over deeply.

