Penelope's Postscripts

by Kate Douglas Wiggin

Contents:

Penelope in Switzerland Penelope in Venice Penelope's Prints of Wales Penelope in Devon Penelope
at Home

PENELOPE IN SWITZERLAND

A DAY IN PESTALOZZI-TOWN

Salemina and I were in Geneva.  If you had ever travelled through Europe with a charming spinster
who never sat down at a Continental table d'hote without being asked by an American vis-a-vis
whether she were one of the P.'s of Salem, Massachusetts, you would understand why I call my
friend Salemina.  She doesn't mind it. She knows that I am simply jealous because I came from
a vulgarly large tribe that never had any coat-of-arms, and whose ancestors always sealed their
letters with their thumb nails.

Whenever Francesca and I call her "Salemina," she knows, and we know that she knows, that we
are seeing a group of noble ancestors in a sort of halo over her serene and dignified head,
so she remains unruffled under her petit nom, inasmuch as the casual public comprehends nothing
of its spurious origin and thinks it was given her by her sponsors in baptism.

Francesca, Salemina, and I have very different backgrounds.  The first-named is an extremely
pretty person of large income who is travelling with us simply because her relatives think
that she will "see Europe" more advantageously under our chaperonage than if she were accompanied
by persons of her own age or "set."

Salemina is a philanthropist and educator of the first rank, and is collecting all sorts of
valuable material to put at the service of her own country when she returns to it, which will
not be a moment before her letter of credit is exhausted.

I, too, am quasi-educational, for I had a few years of experience in mothering and teaching
little waifs and strays of the streets before I began to paint pictures.  Never shall I regret
those nerve-racking, back-breaking, heart-warming, weary, and beautiful years, when, all unconsciously,
I was learning to paint children by living with them.  Even now the spell still works and it
is the curly head, the "shining morning face," the ready tear, the glancing smile of childhood
that enchains me and gives my brush whatever skill it possesses. 

This must be true if we think it is so; for we cannot be mistaken, when we feel that the element
of the poetical is wanting in our constitutions. But we err both in our mode of accounting
for the fact, and in believing the loss we deplore to be irretrievable.

The fault committed by reasoners on this subject is, to confound one thing with another--to account
for the age being unpoetical--as it unquestionably is--by a supposed decay in the materials
of poetry.  Blue Lake Geneva!--blue as a woman's eye, blue as the vault of
heaven, dropped into the lap of the green earth like a great sparkling sapphire!  Mont Blanc
you know to be just behind the clouds on the other side, and that presently, after hours or
days of patient waiting, he may condescend to unveil himself to your worshipful gaze.

"He is wise in his dignity and reserve," mused Salemina as we sat on the veranda.  "He is all
the more sublime because he withdraws himself from time to time.  In fact, if he didn't see
fit to cover himself occasionally, one could neither eat nor sleep, nor do anything but adore
and magnify."

The day before this interview we had sailed to the end of the sapphire lake and visited the
"snow-white battlements" of the Castle of Chillon; seen its "seven pillars of Gothic mould,"
and its dungeons deep and old, where poor Bonnivard, Byron's famous "Prisoner of Chillon,"
lay captive for so many years, and where Rousseau fixes the catastrophe of his Heloise.

We had just been to Coppet too; Coppet where the Neckers lived and Madame de Stael was born
and lived during many years of her life. We had wandered through the shaded walks of the magnificent
chateau garden, and strolled along the terrace where the eloquent Corinne had walked with the
Schlegels and other famous habitues of her salon.  We had visited Calvin's house at 11 Rue
des Chanoines, Rousseau's at No. 40 on the Grande Rue, and Voltaire's at Ferney.

And so we had been living the past, Salemina and I.  But

"Early one morning, Just as the day was dawning."

my slumbering conscience rose in Puritan strength and asserted its rights to a hearing.

"Salemina," said I, as I walked into her room, "this life that we are leading will not do for
me any longer.  I have been too much immersed in ruins.  Last night in writing to a friend
in New York I uttered the most disloyal and incendiary statements.  I said that I would rather
die than live without ruins of some kind; that America was so new, and crude, and spick and
span, that it was obnoxious to any aesthetic soul; that our tendency to erect hideous public
buildings and then keep them in repair afterwards would make us the butt of ridicule among
future generations.  I even proposed the founding of an American Ruin Company, Limited,--in
which the stockholders should purchase favourably situated bits of land and erect picturesque
ruins thereon.  To be sure, I said, these ruins wouldn't have any associations at first, but
what of that?  We have plenty of poets and romancers; we could manufacture suitable associations
and fit them to the premises. Of these phrases is the 'poetry of life'--words that never fail to
excite an agreeable though dreamy emotion, which it is impossible to refer to any positive ideas.
They are generally used, however, to indicate something gone by.
  I do not say they would be absolutely satisfactory from every standpoint,
but I do say that they would be better than nothing.

"However," I continued, "all this was last night, and I have had a change of heart this morning.
Just on the borderland between sleeping and waking, I had a vision.  I remembered that to-day
would be Monday the 1st of September; that all over our beloved land schools would be opening
and that your sister pedagogues would be doing your work for you in your absence.  Also I remembered
that I am the dishonourable but Honorary President of a Froebel Society of four hundred members,
that it meets to-morrow, and that I can't afford to send them a cable."

"It is all true," said Salemina.  "It might have been said more briefly, but it is quite true."

"Now, my dear, I am only a painter with an occasional excursion into educational fields, but
you ought to be gathering stories of knowledge to lay at the feet of the masculine members
of your School Board."

"I ought, indeed!" sighed Salemina.

