How slowly the night passes to one tipping and swinging along in a slowly moving stage! But
the harbinger of the day came at last. When the fiddler rose from his knees, I saw the morning-star
burst out of the east like a great diamond, and I knew that Venus was strong enough to pull
up even the sun, from whom she is never distant more than an eighth of the heavenly circle. "Judy (she's
my wife) she tell me she heah Miss Anne when she axed ole missis mout she wear mo'nin' fur 'im.
I don' know how dat is; but when we buried 'im nex' day, she wuz de one whar walked arfter de coffin,
holdin' ole marster, an' ole missis she walked next to 'em."

"Well, we buried Marse Chan dyar in de ole grabeyard, wid de fleg
wrapped roun' 'im, an' he face lookin' like it did dat mawnin' down
in de low groun's, wid de new sun shinin' on it so peaceful.

Dat warn' so mighty long, 'cause ole marster he died dat fall, when
dey wuz fallerin' fur wheat--I had jes' married Judy den--an' ole
missis she warn' long behine him.

We buried her by him next summer. Miss Anne she went in de hospitals toreckly arfter ole missis died;
an' jes' fo' Richmond fell she come home sick wid de fever.

Yo' nuvver would 'a' knowed her fur de same ole Miss Anne. She wuz light ez a
piece o' peth, an' so white, 'cep' her eyes an' her sorrel hyar,
an' she kep' on gittin' whiter an' weaker.

Judy she sut'n'y did nuss her faithful. But she nuvver got no betterment!
De fever an' Marse Chan's bein' kilt hed done strain her, an' she died
jes' 'fo' de folks wuz sot free.

"So we buried Miss Anne right by Marse Chan, in a place whar ole missis
hed tole us to leave, an' dey's bofe on 'em sleep side by side over
in de ole grabeyard at home.

"An' will yo' please tell me, marster? Dey tells me dat de Bible sey dyar won'
be marryin' nor givin' in marriage in heaven, but I don' b'lieve
it signifies dat--does yo'?"

I gave him the comfort of my earnest belief in some other interpretation,
together with several spare "eighteen-pences," as he called them,
for which he seemed humbly grateful.

And as I rode away I heard him calling across the fence to his wife,
who was standing in the door of a small whitewashed cabin, near which
we had been standing for some time:

"Judy, have Marse Chan's dawg
got home?"

MR. BIXBY'S CHRISTMAS VISITOR.

BY CHARLES S. GAGE.

Appleton's Journal, December 30, 1871.

At the head of the first flight of stairs, and on opposite sides of
the landing, were the respective rooms of Mr. Bixby and Mr. Bangs. The
house in which they lived stood in a quiet and retired street on
the lower and western side of New York, a locality which was once
inhabited by fashionable families, afterward by old-fashioned families,
and at the time of our story by the keepers of boarding-houses for
single men.

Mr. Henry Bixby and Mr. Alfred Bangs were single men--Mr. Bangs, the
wine-merchant, because he liked wine and song so well that he never
had leisure to think of women, because he was fat, because he was
red in the face, and, if more reasons are necessary, because his fingers
were chubby and short.

For twenty
years, day by day, Mr. Bangs had been absorbed in business. For twenty years,
night after night, it had been his custom to entertain his friends at
his apartment in not a very quiet way. He was so happy, and bulbous, and jolly,
that he had never thought of marriage. Yet he might easily have been mistaken
by the casual observer for a family man.

He wore a white vest when it wasn't too cold; his linen was painfully
plain.

There was not a sign of jewelry about him. He wore low shoes, which
he tied with a ribbon. This was Mr. Bangs.

Not quite so old in years as the opposite lodger was Mr. Bixby, known
to his few friends as a genial philosopher and poet, to the public
as the literary critic of one of the great daily papers.

He might have been thirty-five years of age, but, as he had lived
more for others than for himself, as he had made a study and not a
pleasure of life, his gray eyes and the other features of his face
suggested to whoever met him a longer past.

There was something about him that caused men to wonder, not what
he was, but what he had been.

For ten years Mr. Bangs and Mr. Bixby had been inmates of the house together. Mr.
Bangs had been there longer. The present landlady had received as a legacy
from her predecessor, who did not care to take him away, Mr. Bangs.

As she said, she made a present of Bangs.

Long as they had known each other, the two lodgers were only acquaintances.
Sometimes, on a Sunday afternoon, they would walk out in company, stroll
down to the Battery, and there smoke their cigars and watch the ships,
but beyond this point of sociability, which neither enjoyed, there
was nothing more.

Never had Bixby read Bangs any poem he had made, nor did ever Bangs
invite Bixby to meet his convivial friends of an evening to play whist or
to partake of his mulled ale.

In fact, Mr. Bixby had been often and with great enthusiasm voted an unsocial
fellow by the cronies of Mr. Bangs, but he rose somewhat in their
estimation when they were informed that he had consented to exchange
rooms with their host.

"He isn't such a grouty fellow, after all," said Bangs.

"I told him that we were too near the street, and that some one had been complaining to the landlady
of our singing. He didn't even stop to think, but agreed to do it
at once.

He thought the light would be better here.

Now, fellows, I call that doing the fair thing."

And the speech of Mr. Bangs was applauded.

It was the morning of the day before Christmas that the change was effected.
In the closet where had been the bottles, the decanters, glasses, and
pickle-jars of the late occupant, Mr. Bixby had arranged shelves,
and filled them with his books.

Over the mantel, from which Mr. Bangs had taken away a colored print of a bull-dog
in an overcoat, Mr. Bixby hung a fine engraving of the Madonna, and on the mantel
itself he had placed his clock.

It was a small French clock under a crystal, so that its rapidly-swinging
pendulum could be easily seen.

All bachelors, however negligent of their surroundings, have some one hobby among articles of furniture. It
may be an easy-chair, or a book-case, or a chandelier--there is one thing
that must be the best of its kind.

There could be no doubt, from the care with which Mr. Bixby placed
his clock in its position, and from time to time compared it with
his watch, that this was his hobby.

It had the three requisites which he demanded in a clock. It kept correct time
without failing, its pendulum swung rapidly, and was plainly visible.
Time past was the happiness of Mr. Bixby, and this clock told him
continually that all was being done that could be done to induce the
hours of every day to go over to the majority.

He depended upon this clock. He was surer of its mechanism than of
that of his own heart.

What with hanging his pictures and arranging his furniture, and with
many other little things which had to be done, Mr. Bixby was busily
employed all day.

But the task was not an unpleasant one.

His heart was in the work, for there was hardly an object in the
room not nearly associated with some event in his past life.

After carefully brushing the dust from an old writing-desk, which
had evidently once belonged to a lady, he placed it upon the rug in
front of the fire.

Only on Christmas-eves was this desk opened.

"It is curious," thought Mr. Bixby, "that I should have moved this
day, of all days in the year!"

Often in his work he thought of stopping to take from the desk an
old packet of letters, and reading them once more.

But it
was not yet time, and, moreover, he was continually interrupted. First, there
came some one to his door with "Two dozen Congress-water for Mr. Bangs;" then one
with "Mr. Bangs's boots," and another to tell Mr. Bangs that "the
pup was big enough to take away."

Finally, came Bangs himself, to complain of like interruptions, and
to bid him good-by.

"Here
is some manuscript a boy left for you. You will have to attend both doors
now.

I am off to spend Christmas. We are going to have a Tom-and-Jerry
party in Jersey.

You know--

"'The Tom-and-Jerry days have come, the happiest in the year!'

"Good
rendering, eh?

That isn't
all:

"'I only wish to live till the juleps come again!'"

And Mr. Bangs laughed uproariously, even after he had said, "Good-by,"
and shut the door behind him.

"What a personification of Bacchus!" thought Mr. Bixby--

"'Ever laughing,
ever young.'

"He will be young as long as he lives, but I am afraid
that won't be long.

If ever there was a man in immediate danger of apoplexy, Bangs is that man."

It was after dinner when Mr. Bixby lighted his drop-light and sat down before
the fire.

He pushed an ottoman in front of him, on which to rest his feet,
which he had comfortably encased in his slippers.

But the shadows in his new room did not please him. He could hardly see the clock on the mantel. The
Madonna above was completely in the shade.

So he lighted the chandelier above and sat down again, hoping that no friend, either of his own or of Mr. Bangs,
would interrupt him. The desk was open at his feet.

The package of letters lay near him on the table. He placed his hand upon them, but let it rest there. The hour had not
quite arrived when he would read them.

He fell again into the reveries of the day. He lingered over the thoughts
of his better life ere he opened the packet which told of its end.

For the last ten years he had labored without ambition, and had been
successful.

His name was well known as a journalist, and his salary was ample. Before
that time he had striven ambitiously, but fruitlessly, patiently,
but as in a quicksand, until, on a day, he had none to strive for
but himself, and then success had come.

Since noon, seven hours and twenty-nine minutes, said the clock before
him.

His anniversary was near.

Mr. Bixby drew the letters near him, and untied the package. Just then there
came a knock at his door, and, before he had determined whether or not
he should say, "Come in," the door opened, and an elderly gentleman
stepped into the apartment.

Quietly he came in.

There was no sound attending his entrance except the knock.

Mr. Bixby, looking up, saw a man of more than ordinary height, with
countenance rigid and puritanical in expression, as though the mind
which had formed it was one influenced more by justice than mercy.

His eyes were concealed by a pair of colored spectacles, but these,
as they caught and reflected the light, were brighter and more startling
than any eyes could have been.

He was dressed in a long surtout, which he wore closely buttoned,
high dickey, and high black-silk stock, which covered his throat to
his chin.

His iron-gray hair was brushed somewhat pompously backward over his
forehead, and his whole effect was that of a gentleman of the generation
which wore bell-crowned hats and carried enormous canes with tassels.

But what attracted Mr. Bixby's particular attention were the wrinkles
of his face. These were in all places where wrinkles should not be.

One ran straight through the centre of his forehead, continuing the line
of the nose upward to the hair.

Two others, starting from the bridge of the nose, ran diagonally down
to the nostrils.

He was close-shaven, and his lips were straight and thin.

These peculiarities
of his visitor Mr. Bixby had barely time to mark when the gentleman
said:

"Ah, Mr. Bangs, I am glad to find you in!"

Mr. Bixby never in his life more desired
to be alone, and yet there was something in this old man which so attracted
him that he could not correct his mistake.

He felt a sudden fascination and desire to know more of him.

Bangs
was away and could not be seen.

The gentleman
could not be very well acquainted with Bangs, very probably never had
seen him, or he would not have made such an error.

But nothing but the influence which seemed to proceed from his visitor
could have induced Mr. Bixby to answer as he did.

"Thank you, sir.

Pray, take this chair."

As he said this, he arose and wheeled an easy-chair to the other side
of the table.

The elderly gentleman sat down.

"You have a very cheerful apartment here, Mr. Bangs."

"Yes. I always like to be comfortable."

"Of course," said the elderly gentleman.

"Will you remove your overcoat, sir?" asked Mr. Bixby, and immediately
repented it.

"Oh, no, I shall stop but a moment."

There was an interval of
silence.

A block of coal broke open in the grate and fell apart.

A jet
of gas burst forth and burned, then sputtered and went out.

Mr.
Bixby wondered on what business he had come, and why he did not open
the subject at once, if he was only intending to stop a moment.

"It is
very disagreeable weather out," said the man with the pompous forelock,
interrupting his reflections.

"Snowing?" asked Bixby.

"No--sleet."

"Very unpleasant to have far to go such a night," suggested Bixby,
who could think of nothing better to say.

"Not at all," responded the old gentleman, authoritatively.

Bixby was silent again.

The old gentleman, leaning with his elbow on the table, began again.

"You like to live well, Mr. Bangs?"

"I try
to," answered Mr. Bixby.

"Yes."

"This
must be some relative of Bangs come to deliver him a lecture on his
course of life.

Why don't he broach his advice
at once?" thought Mr. Bixby. The visitor here pulled a glove from
his right hand, ran his fingers through his hair, and then, in a more
business-like tone, spoke again:

"Although a stranger to you personally, Mr. Bangs, I have
always taken a great interest in your family.

Mr. Bangs, I knew
your father."

"Indeed! I never heard him speak--"

"No, I dare say; it was near the end of his life.

I was near by, and rendered
him some assistance, when he died suddenly of apoplexy. He was not
so much of a man as your grandfather."

"Was he not?" asked Mr. Bixby, musingly. He was thinking how old the
grandfather of his friend Bangs must have been.

"No," continued the elderly gentleman; "but even his judgment I never
considered equal to that of your great-grandfather."

"Here is, indeed, a friend--a friend of the family.
Why is Mr. Bangs away?" thought Mr. Bixby, and he bent his head a
little, and looked under the drop-light, to get a view of his visitor.

He saw
only the reflection on his spectacles, and drew back suddenly, for
fear of being detected.

"You like a good song, I have heard, Mr. Bangs," came from the other side
of the table.

"Have you any favorite?"

Mr. Bixby did not understand this at all. The question puzzled him.
Should he as Bangs fall in the estimation of some relative if he admitted
the fact? Or did his visitor intend to sing? However, he felt compelled
to be frank, so he said:

"Oh, yes; I like a good song. Some of the
Scotch ballads please me most. There is 'The Land o' the Leal.'"

"A
very fine song, sir. A very fine song. It is a credit to any man to
like that song."

The old gentleman was excited. Mr. Bixby was just
congratulating himself on having given Bangs a lift, when his thoughts
were turned into an altogether new channel by the following remark:

"It
was my impression, however, that your taste ran rather in the way
of drinking-songs. I should have thought now you would have said,
'The Coal-Black Wine.'"

There was something in the tone with which
this was uttered that made Mr. Bixby shudder. It ran through his mind
that this man was some enemy of Bangs--that he was dangerous. Startled
by this sudden suspicion, tremblingly he again peered under the shade.
The wrinkle in the line of the frontal suture was more deeply indented.
The light on the spectacles was brighter than ever.

"Mr. Bangs, I
called on your opposite neighbor, Mr. Bixby, to-night. I knocked on
the door, but he was away."

"Yes," said Mr. Bixby, somewhat confused.
He wished that Bangs had stayed at home, and determined to end the
interview as soon as possible.

"Yes. I am sorry. I had a positive
appointment with him. I am a great friend of his."

"Does he know
you?"

"Oh, no; we have never met personally that he remembers. I
am an old friend of the family. The house was very clean, and the tidy landlady gave us as good a dinner as she could
of the inevitable green tea, toast, and salt fish. She was Gaelic, but Protestant, as the village
is, and showed us with pride her Gaelic Bible and hymn-book. A peaceful place, this Whykokomagh;
the lapsing waters of Bras d'Or made a summer music all along the quiet street; the bay lay
smiling with its islands in front, and an amphitheater of hills rose behind. But for the line
of telegraph poles one might have fancied he could have security and repose here.

We put a fresh pony into the shafts, a beast born with an everlasting uneasiness in his legs,
and an amount of "go" in him which suited his reckless driver. But these dry, though important studies,
did not exclusively occupy his mind; he carried on, at the same time, a great variety of other
pursuits. Like all men of an active and intellectual turn of mind, his recreation was found not
in repose, but in change of occupation. Books of voyages and travels were collected, and read with avidity;
he devoured rather than read the classical remains of Greece and Rome. "That antiquity," said he, "enchants
me, and I am always ready to say with Pliny--You are going to Athens;
show respect to the gods."

It was under this feeling of devout gratitude to the master minds of
the ancient world, that he made his first essay in literature, which
came out in a small work in the form of letters, the object of which
was to show, that the idolatry of most Pagans did of itself not merit
eternal damnation.

Probably there are few good Christians, from Fénélon and Tillotson downwards, who will be of an
opposite opinion.

Even in that juvenile production are to be found traces of the sound judgment, correct taste, and
general thought which characterised his later works. But he was soon thrown into the proper labours
of his profession.

On the 24th February 1714, he was admitted into the parliament of Bourdeaux as a councillor; and
his paternal uncle, who held the president's
chair, having died two years after, young Montesquieu was, on the 13th July
1716, appointed to that important office, though only twenty-seven years of
age. Probably his being thrown thus early in life into the discharge of
onerous and important duties, had an important effect in producing that
firmness and maturity of judgment by which his mind was subsequently
distinguished. Some years afterwards, he gave a convincing proof of
his fitness for the situation, in the vigour with which he remonstrated
against the imposition of a fresh tax on wine, which had the effect
of procuring its removal at the time, though the necessities of government
led to its being reimposed some years after.

