And this leads us to the consideration of a difficulty connected with another point of Patmore's
doctrine of divine love. He held that the idealized marriage relationship was not merely the
symbol, but the most effectual sacrament and instrument of that love; "yet the world," he complains,
"goes on talking, writing, and preaching as if there were some essential contrariety between
the two," the disproof of which "was the inspiring idea at the heart of my long poem (the 'Angel')."
Now, although in asserting that the most absorbing and exclusive form of human affection is
not only compatible with, but even instrumental to the highest kind of sanctity and divine
love, Patmore claimed to be at one, at least in principle, with some of the deeper utterances
of the Saints and Fathers of the Christian Church; it cannot be denied that the assertion is
prima facie opposed to the common tradition of Catholic asceticism; and to the apparent raison
d'être of every sort of monastic institution.

It must be confessed that, in regard to the reconciliation of the claims of intense human affection
with those of intense sanctity, there have been among all religious teachers two distinct conceptions
struggling for birth, often in one and the same mind, either of which taken as adequate must
exclude the other. It would not be hard to quote the utterances of saints and ascetics for
either view; or to convict individual authorities of seeming self-contradiction in the matter.
The reason of this is apparently that neither view is or can be adequate; that one is weak
where the other is strong; that they are both imperfect analogies of a relationship that is
unique and sui generis--the relationship between God and the soul. Hence neither hits the centre
of truth, but glances aside, one at the right hand, the other at the left. Briefly, it is a
question of the precise sense in which God is "a jealous God" and demands to be loved alone.
The first and easier mode of conception is that which is implied in the commoner language of
saints and ascetics--language perhaps consciously symbolic and defective in its first usage,
but which has been inevitably literalised and hardened when taken upon the lips of the multitude.
God is necessarily spoken of and imagined in terms of the creature, and when the analogical
character of such expression slips from consciousness, as it does almost instantly, He is spoken
of, and therefore thought of, as the First of Creatures competing with the rest for the love
of man's heart. He is placed alongside of them in our imagination, not behind them or in them.
Hence comes the inference that whatever love they win from us in their own right, by reason
of their inherent goodness, is taken from Him. Even though He be loved better than all of them
put together, yet He is not loved perfectly till He be loved alone. Their function is to raise
and disappoint our desire time after time, till we be starved back to Him as to the sole-satisfying--everything
else having proved vanitas vanitatum. Then indeed we go back to them, not for their own sakes,
but for His; not attracted by our love of them, but impelled by our love of Him.

This mode of imagining the truth, so as to explain the divine jealousy implied in the precept
of loving God exclusively and supremely, is, for all its patent limitations, the most generally
serviceable. Treated as a strict equation of thought to fact, and pushed accordingly to its
utmost logical consequences, it becomes a source of danger; but in fact it is not and will
not be so treated by the majority of good Christians who serve God faithfully but without enthusiasm;
whose devotion is mainly rational and but slightly affective; who do not conceive themselves
called to the way of the saints, or to offer God that all-absorbing affection which would necessitate
the weakening or severing of natural ties. In the event, however, of such a call to perfect
love, the logical and practical outcome of this mode of imagining the relation of God to creatures
is a steady subtraction of the natural love bestowed upon friends and relations, that the energy
thus economized may be transferred to God. This concentration may indeed be justified on other
and independent grounds; but the implied supposition that, the highest sanctity is incompatible
with any pure and well-ordered natural affection, however intense, is certainly ill-sounding,
and hardly reconcilable with the divinest examples and precepts.

The limitations of this simpler and more practical mode of imagining the matter are to some
extent supplemented by that other mode for which Patmore found so much authority in St. Bernard,
St. Francis, St. Teresa, and many another, and which he perhaps too readily regarded as exhaustively
satisfactory.

In this conception, God is placed, not alongside of creatures, but behind them, as the light
which shines through a crystal and lends it whatever it has of lustre. In recognizing whatever
true brilliancy or beauty creatures possess as due to His inbiding presence, the love which
they excite in us passes on to Him, through them. As He is the primary Agent and Mover in all
our action and movement, the primary Lover in all our pure and well-ordered love; and we, but
instruments of His action, movement, and love; so, in whatever we love rightly and divinely
for its true merit and divinity, it is He who is ultimately loved. Thus in all pure and well-ordered
affection it is, ultimately, God who loves and God who is loved; it is God returning to Himself,
the One to the One. According to this imagery, God is viewed as the First Efficient and the
ultimate Final Cause in a circular chain of causes and effects of which He is at once the first
link and the last--a conception which, in so far as it brings God inside the system of nature
as part thereof, is, like the last, only analogously true, and may not be pressed too far in
its consequences.

In this view, to love God supremely and exclusively means practically, to love only the best
things in the best way, recognizing God both in the affection and in its object. God is not
loved apart from creatures, or beside them; but through them and in them. Hence if only the
affection be of the right kind as to mode and object, the more the better; nor can there be
any question of crowding other affections into a corner in order to make more room for the
love of God in our hearts. The love of Him is the "form," the principle of order and harmony;
our natural affections are the "matter," harmonized and set in order; it is the soul, they
are the body, of that one Divine Love whose adequate object is God in, and not apart from,
His creatures. 

To make a general index to your library does away with the necessity
for indexing individual volumes that are not already indexed.

To begin with, keep a note-book by you; or small cards and paper cuttings in your pocket and on your desk
will serve as well.

The same note-book that records the impressions of your own experiences
and thoughts will be enriched by the ideas of others.

To be sure, this note-book habit means labor, but remember that more
speeches have been spoiled by half-hearted preparation than by lack
of talent.

Laziness is an own-brother to Over-confidence, and both are your
inveterate enemies, though they pretend to be soothing friends.

Conserve your material by indexing every good idea on cards, thus:

[HW:

Socialism

Progress
of S., Env.

16 S. a fallacy, 96/210 General article on S., Howells', Dec. 1913 "Socialism and the Franchise,"
Forbes "Socialism in Ancient Life," Original Ms., Env.

102

]

On the card illustrated above, clippings are indexed by giving
the number of the envelope in which they are filed.

The envelopes may be of any size desired and kept in any convenient
receptacle.

On the foregoing example, "Progress of S., Envelope 16," will represent a clipping, filed in Envelope
16, which is, of course, numbered arbitrarily.

The fractions refer to books in your library--the numerator being
the book-number, the denominator referring to the page.

Thus, "S.
a fallacy, 96/210," refers to page 210 of volume 96 in your library.

By some
arbitrary sign--say red ink--you may even index a reference in a public
library book.

If you preserve your magazines, important articles may be indexed by month and year. An entire volume
on a subject may be indicated like the imaginary book by "Forbes." If you clip the articles, it is better
to index them according to the envelope system.

Your own writings and notes may be filed in envelopes with the clippings or
in a separate series.

Another good indexing system combines the library index with the "scrap,"
or clipping, system by making the outside of the envelope serve the
same purpose as the card for the indexing of books, magazines, clippings
and manuscripts, the latter two classes of material being enclosed
in the envelopes that index them, and all filed alphabetically.

When your cards accumulate so as to make ready reference difficult under a single alphabet, you may subdivide
each letter by subordinate guide cards marked by the vowels, A, E, I,
O, U. Thus, "Antiquities" would be filed under i in A, because A
begins the word, and the second letter, n, comes after the vowel i
in the alphabet, but before o. In the same manner, "Beecher" would
be filed under e in B; and "Hydrogen" would come under u in H.

Outlining
the Address

No one can advise you how to prepare the notes for an
address.

Some speakers
get the best results while walking out and ruminating, jotting down
notes as they pause in their walk.

Others never put pen to paper until the whole speech
has been thought out.

The great majority, however, will
take notes, classify their notes, write a hasty first draft, and then
revise the speech.

Try each of these methods and choose the one that is best--for you. Do not allow
any man to force you to work in his way; but do not neglect to consider
his way, for it may be better than your own.

For those who make notes and with their aid write out the speech,
these suggestions may prove helpful:

After having read and thought enough, classify your notes by setting
down the big, central thoughts of your material on separate cards
or slips of paper.

These will stand in the same relation to your subject as chapters do
to a book.

Then arrange these main ideas or heads in such an order that they
will lead effectively to the result you have in mind, so that the
speech may rise in argument, in interest, in power, by piling one
fact or appeal upon another until the climax--the highest point of
influence on your audience--has been reached.

Next group all your ideas, facts, anecdotes, and illustrations under the
foregoing main heads, each where it naturally belongs.

You now have a skeleton or outline of your address that in its polished form might
serve either as the brief, or manuscript notes, for the speech or
as the guide-outline which you will expand into the written address,
if written it is to be.

Imagine each of the main ideas in the brief on page 213 as being separate;
then picture your mind as sorting them out and placing them in order;
finally, conceive of how you would fill in the facts and examples
under each head, giving special prominence to those you wish to emphasize
and subduing those of less moment.

In the end, you have the outline complete. The simplest form of outline--not
very suitable for use on the platform, however--is the following:

WHY PROSPERITY IS COMING

What prosperity means.--The
real tests of prosperity.--Its basis in the soil.--American agricultural
progress.--New interest in farming.--Enormous value of our agricultural
products.--Reciprocal effect on trade.--Foreign countries affected.--Effects
of our new internal economy--the regulation of banking and "big business"--on
prosperity.--Effects of our revised attitude toward foreign markets,
including our merchant marine.--Summary.

Obviously, this very
simple outline is capable of considerable expansion under each head
by the addition of facts, arguments, inferences and examples.

Here is an outline arranged with more regard for argument:

FOREIGN IMMIGRATION SHOULD BE RESTRICTED[11]

I. FACT AS CAUSE: Many immigrants are practically paupers.

(Proofs involving statistics or statements of authorities.)

II.

FACT AS EFFECT: They sooner or later fill our alms-houses and become
public charges. (Proofs involving statistics or statements of authorities.)

III.

FACT AS CAUSE: Some of them are criminals.

(Examples of recent cases.)

IV. FACT AS EFFECT: They reënforce the criminal classes.

(Effects on our civic life.)

V. FACT AS CAUSE: Many of them
know nothing of the duties of free citizenship.

(Examples.)

VI.FACT AS EFFECT: Such immigrants recruit the worst element in our
politics.

(Proofs.)

A more highly ordered grouping of topics and subtopics is shown in
the following:

OURS A CHRISTIAN NATION

I. INTRODUCTION: Why the
subject is timely.

Influences operative against this contention today.

II.

CHRISTIANITY PRESIDED OVER THE EARLY HISTORY OF AMERICA.

1.

First practical discovery by a Christian explorer. Columbus worshiped
God on the new soil.

2. The Cavaliers.

3. The French Catholic settlers.

4. The Huguenots.

5. The Puritans.

III.

THE BIRTH OF OUR NATION WAS UNDER CHRISTIAN AUSPICES.

1. Christian character of Washington.

2. Other Christian patriots.

3. The Church in our Revolutionary struggle. Muhlenberg.

IV. OUR LATER HISTORY HAS ONLY EMPHASIZED OUR NATIONAL ATTITUDE. Examples
of dealings with foreign nations show Christian magnanimity.

Returning the Chinese Indemnity; fostering the Red Cross; attitude
toward Belgium.

V.
OUR GOVERNMENTAL FORMS AND MANY OF OUR LAWS ARE OF A CHRISTIAN TEMPER.

1.

The use of the Bible in public ways, oaths, etc.

2. The Bible in our schools.

3. Christian chaplains minister to our law-making bodies, to our army,
and to our navy.

4.

The Christian Sabbath is officially and generally recognized.

5. The Christian family and the Christian system of morality are at the basis
of our laws.

VI. THE LIFE OF THE PEOPLE TESTIFIES OF THE POWER OF CHRISTIANITY. Charities,
education, etc., have Christian tone.

VII. OTHER NATIONS REGARD US AS A CHRISTIAN PEOPLE.

VIII.

CONCLUSION: The attitude which may reasonably be expected of all good
citizens toward questions touching the preservation of our standing
as a Christian nation.

Writing and Revision

After the outline has been perfected comes the time to write the speech,
if write it you must.

Then, whatever you do, write it at white heat, with not
too much thought of anything but the strong, appealing expression
of your ideas.

The final stage is the paring down, the re-vision--the seeing again,
as the word implies--when all the parts of the speech must be impartially
scrutinized for clearness, precision, force, effectiveness, suitability,
proportion, logical climax; and in all this you must imagine yourself
to be before your audience, for a speech is not an essay and what
will convince and arouse in the one will not prevail in the other.

The Title

Often last of all will come that which in a sense is first of all--the title, the name by which
the speech is known.

Sometimes it will be the simple theme of the address, as "The New Americanism,"
by Henry Watterson; or it may be a bit of symbolism typifying the
spirit of the address, as "Acres of Diamonds," by Russell H. Conwell;
or it may be a fine phrase taken from the body of the address, as
"Pass Prosperity Around," by Albert J. Beveridge.

All in all, from whatever motive it be chosen, let the title be fresh,
short, suited to the subject, and likely to excite interest.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1. Define (a) introduction; (b) climax; (c) peroration.

2. If a thirty-minute speech would require three hours for specific preparation, would you expect to be able
to do equal justice to a speech one-third as long in one-third the
time for preparation?

Give reasons.

3. Relate briefly
any personal experience you may have had in conserving time for reading
and thought.

4. In the manner of a reporter or investigator, go out and get first-hand
information on some subject of interest to the public. Arrange the results of your
research in the form of an outline, or brief.

5.

From a private
or a public library gather enough authoritative material on one of the following
questions to build an outline for a twenty-minute address.

Take one definite side of the question, (a) "The Housing of the Poor;"

(b) "The Commission Form of Government for Cities as a Remedy for Political
Graft;"

(c) "The Test of Woman's Suffrage in the West;"

(d) "Present Trends of Public Taste in Reading;" (e) "Municipal Art;"

(f)
"Is the Theatre Becoming more Elevated in Tone?" (g) "The Effects of the
Magazine on Literature;"

(h) "Does Modern Life Destroy Ideals?" (i) "Is Competition 'the Life of Trade?'"
(j) "Baseball is too Absorbing to be a Wholesome National Game;"

(k) "Summer Baseball and Amateur Standing;" (l) "Does College Training
Unfit a Woman for Domestic Life?"

(m) "Does Woman's Competition with Man in Business Dull the Spirit
of Chivalry?"

(n) "Are Elective Studies Suited to High School Courses?"

(o) "Does the Modern College Prepare Men for Preeminent Leadership?" (p) "The
Y.M.C.A. in Its Relation to the Labor Problem;"

(q) "Public Speaking as Training in Citizenship."

6.

Construct the outline, examining it carefully for interest, convincing
character, proportion, and climax of arrangement.

NOTE:--This exercise should be repeated until the student shows facility
in synthetic arrangement.

7. Deliver the address, if possible before an audience.

8.

Make a three-hundred word report on the results, as best you are able
to estimate them.

9. Tell something of the benefits of using a periodical (or cumulative)
index.

10.

Give a number of quotations, suitable for a speaker's use, that you
have memorized in off moments.

11. In the manner of the outline on page 213, analyze the address on pages 78-79,
"The History of Liberty."

12. Give an outline analysis, from notes or memory, of an address or
sermon to which you have listened for this purpose.

13. Criticise the address from a structural point of view.

14. Invent titles for any five of the themes in Exercise 5.

15. Criticise the titles of any five
chapters of this book, suggesting better ones.

16. Criticise the title of
any lecture or address of which you know.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 10: How to Attract and Hold an Audience, J. Berg Esenwein.]

[Footnote
11: Adapted from Competition-Rhetoric, Scott and Denny, p. 241.]

CHAPTER
XIX

INFLUENCING BY EXPOSITION

Speak not at all, in any wise, till
you have somewhat to speak; care not for the reward of your speaking,
but simply and with undivided mind for the truth of your speaking.

--THOMAS
CARLYLE, Essay on Biography.

A complete discussion
of the rhetorical structure of public speeches requires a fuller treatise
than can be undertaken in a work of this nature, yet in this chapter,
and in the succeeding ones on "Description," "Narration," "Argument,"
and "Pleading," the underlying principles are given and explained
as fully as need be for a working knowledge, and adequate book references
are given for those who would perfect themselves in rhetorical art.

The Nature of Exposition

In the word "expose"--to lay bare, to uncover,
to show the true inwardness of--we see the foundation-idea of "Exposition."

It is the clear and precise setting forth of what
the subject really is--it is explanation.

Exposition does not draw a picture, for that would be description.
To tell in exact terms what the automobile is, to name its characteristic
parts and explain their workings, would be exposition; so would an
explanation of the nature of "fear."

But to create a mental image of a
particular automobile, with its glistening body, graceful lines,
and great speed, would be description; and so would a picturing of
fear acting on the emotions of a child at night.

Exposition
and description often intermingle and overlap, but fundamentally
they are distinct.

Their differences will be touched upon again
in the chapter on "Description."

Exposition furthermore does not include
an account of how events happened--that is narration. When Peary lectured
on his polar discoveries he explained the instruments used for determining
latitude and longitude--that was exposition. In picturing his equipment
he used description. In telling of his adventures day by day he employed
narration. In supporting some of his contentions he used argument. Yet
he mingled all these forms throughout the lecture.

Neither does exposition deal with reasons and inferences--that is
the field of argument.

A series
of connected statements intended to convince a prospective buyer that
one automobile is better than another, or proofs that the appeal to
fear is a wrong method of discipline, would not be exposition. The
plain facts as set forth in expository speaking or writing are nearly
always the basis of argument, yet the processes are not one. True, the
statement of a single significant fact without the addition of one other
word may be convincing, but a moment's thought will show that the
inference, which completes a chain of reasoning, is made in the mind
of the hearer and presupposes other facts held in consideration.[12]

In
like manner, it is obvious that the field of persuasion is not open
to exposition, for exposition is entirely an intellectual process,
with no emotional element.

The Importance of Exposition

The importance of exposition in public speech is precisely the importance
of setting forth a matter so plainly that it cannot be misunderstood.

"To master the process of exposition is to become a clear thinker. 'I
know, when you do not ask me,'[13] replied a gentleman upon being
requested to define a highly complex idea.

Now some large
concepts defy explicit definition; but no mind should take refuge
behind such exceptions, for where definition fails, other forms succeed.

Sometimes we feel confident that we have perfect mastery
of an idea, but when the time comes to express it, the clearness becomes
a haze. Exposition, then, is the test of clear understanding. To speak
effectively you must be able to see your subject clearly and comprehensively,
and to make your audience see it as you do."[14]

There are pitfalls on both sides of this path. To explain too little
will leave your audience in doubt as to what you mean.

It is useless to argue a question if it
is not perfectly clear just what is meant by the question. Have you
never come to a blind lane in conversation by finding that you were
talking of one aspect of a matter while your friend was thinking of
another? If two do not agree in their definitions of a Musician, it is useless
to dispute over a certain man's right to claim the title.

On the other side of the path lies the abyss of tediously
explaining too much. That offends because it impresses the hearers that
you either do not respect their intelligence or are trying to blow
a breeze into a tornado. Carefully estimate the probable knowledge
of your audience, both in general and of the particular point you
are explaining.

In trying to simplify, it is fatal to "sillify."
To explain more than is needed for the purposes of your argument or
appeal is to waste energy all around. In your efforts to be explicit do not
press exposition to the extent of dulness--the confines are not far
distant and you may arrive before you know it.

Some Purposes of Exposition

From
what has been said it ought to be clear that, primarily, exposition weaves
a cord of understanding between you and your audience.

It lays, furthermore, a foundation of fact on which to build later
statements, arguments, and appeals.

In scientific
and purely "information" speeches exposition may exist by itself
and for itself, as in a lecture on biology, or on psychology; but
in the vast majority of cases it is used to accompany and prepare
the way for the other forms of discourse.

Clearness, precision, accuracy, unity, truth, and necessity--these
must be the constant standards by which you test the efficiency of
your expositions, and, indeed, that of every explanatory statement.
This dictum should be written on your brain in letters most plain.
And let this apply not alone to the purposes of exposition but in
equal measure to your use of the

Methods of Exposition

The various
ways along which a speaker may proceed in exposition are likely to
touch each other now and then, and even when they do not meet and
actually overlap they run so nearly parallel that the roads are sometimes
distinct rather in theory than in any more practical respect.

=Definition=,
the primary expository method, is a statement of precise limits.[15]
Obviously, here the greatest care must be exercised that the terms
of definition should not themselves demand too much definition; that
the language should be concise and clear; and that the definition
should neither exclude nor include too much. The following is a simple
example:

To expound is to set forth the nature, the significance,
the characteristics, and the bearing of an idea or a group of ideas.

--ARLO
BATES, Talks on Writing English.

=Contrast and Antithesis= are often
used effectively to amplify definition, as in this sentence, which
immediately follows the above-cited definition:

Exposition therefore
differs from Description in that it deals directly with the meaning
or intent of its subject instead of with its appearance. [2] as an extraordinary vocation. The purpose of "orders" and "congregations"
is to provide a suitable environment for people of a religious temperament whose circumstances
permit them to attend to its development in a more exclusive and, as it were, professional
way. Not, indeed, that all religious-minded persons do, or ought to, enter into that external
state of life; nor that all who so enter are by temperament and sympathy fitted for it, but
that the institution points to the Church's recognition of what is technically called the "way
of perfection" as something exceptional and super-normal.

But the Church has a wider vocation than to provide hot-houses for the forcing of these rare
exotics, whom the rough climate of a worldly life would either stunt or kill. Her first thought
is for the multitudes of average humanity, who are not, and cannot be, in intelligent sympathy
with many of the commands she lays upon them. They are but as children in religious matters--however
cultivated they may chance to be in other concerns. From such souls God requires faith, and
obedience to the commandments--a due, which, in certain rare crises, may mean heroism and martyrdom;
but He does not expect of them that refinement of sanctity, that sustained attention to divine
things, which depends so largely on one's natural cast of mind and disposition; and may even
be found where the martyr's temper is altogether wanting. We recognize that there is certain
serviceable, fustian, every-day piety, where, together with a great deal of spiritual coarseness,
insensibility to venial sin and imperfection, there exists a firm faith that would go cheerfully
to the stake rather than deny God, or offend Him in any grave point that might be considered
a casus belli. And on the other hand a certain nicety of ethical discernment and delicacy of
devotion, an anxiety about points of perfection, is a guarantee rather of the quality of one's
piety than of its depth or strength. The saint is usually one whose piety excels both in quality
and strength; the martyr is often enough a man of many imperfections and sins, veiling an unsuspected,
deep-reaching faith. The day of persecution has ever been a day of revelation in this respect--a
day when the seemingly perfect have been scattered like chaff before the wind, while the once
thoughtless and careless have stood stubborn before the blast.

Protestantism of the Calvinistic or Puritan type shows little consciousness of the distinction
we are insisting upon. It is disposed to draw a hard-and-fast line between the "converted"
and the reprobate. Those who are not religious-minded, or who do not take a serious turn, are
scarcely recognized as "saved" although they may not be convicted of any very flagrant or definite
breach of the divine law. Their morality or their "good works" go for little if they do not
experience that sense of goodness, or of being saved, which is called faith. Much stress is
laid on "feeling good" and little value allowed to what we might call an unsympathetic and
grudging keeping of God's law--however much more it may cost, from the very fact that it is
in some way unsympathetic, and against the grain. The service of fear and reverence, which
Catholicism regards as the basis and back-bone of love, is held to be abject and unworthy--almost
sinful.

Hence it befalls that no place is found in the Protestant heaven for the great majority of
ordinary people who do not feel a bit good or religious, who rather dislike going to church
and keeping the commandments, and yet who keep them all the same, because they believe in God
and fear His judgments and honour His law, and even love Him in the solid, undemonstrative
way in which a naughty and troublesome child loves its parents.

That such a character as Madge Riversdale's should cover a small, firm core of faith and fear
under a cortex of worldliness and frivolity; that religion should have such a hold on one so
entirely irreligious by nature, is something quite inconceivable to a mind like, let us say,
Mrs. Humphrey Ward's; and yet absolutely intelligible to the ordinary Catholic.

The Church to us, is not what it is to the Protestant--a sort of pasture land in which we are
at liberty to browse if we are piously disposed. It is not merely a convenient environment
for the development of the religious faculty. She stands to us in the relation of shepherd,
with a more than parental authority to feed and train our souls through infancy to maturity;
that is, from the time when we do not know or like what is good for us, to the time when we
begin to appreciate and spontaneously follow her directions. Just then as a child, however
naturally recalcitrant and ill-disposed, retains a certain fundamental goodness and root of
recovery so long as it acknowledges and obeys the authority of its father and mother; so the
ordinary unreligious Catholic, who has been brought up to believe in the divine authority of
the Church, finds therein all the protection that obedience offers to those who are incapable
of self-government. "In Madge's eyes the woman who married an innocent divorcee was no more
than his mistress." Had Madge been a pious Protestant she naturally might have examined the
question of divorce on its own merits; she might have weighed the pros and cons of the problem;
she might have consulted God in prayer, and have listened to this clergyman on one side; and
to that, on the other: but eventually she would have been thrown upon herself; she would have
had no one whose decision she was bound to obey. But wild and lawless as she is, yet being
a Catholic there is one voice on earth which she fears to disbelieve or disobey. Looked at
even from a human standpoint, the consensus of a world-wide, ancient, organized society like
the Roman Church cannot but exert a powerful pressure on the minds of its individual members.
It would need no ordinary rebellion of the will for a thoughtless girl to shake her mind so
free of that influence as to live happily in the state of revolt. But where in addition to
this the Church is viewed as speaking in the name of God, and as so representing Him on earth
that her ban or blessing is inseparable from His, it is obvious that such a belief in her claims
will give her a power for good over the unreligious majority analogous to that possessed by
a parent over an untrained child--a power, that is, of discipline and external motive which
serves to supplement or supply for the present defect of internal motive.

Thus it is that the Church reckons among her obedient children thousands of very imperfect
and non-religious people for whom Protestantism can find no place among the elect.

Again, the solid faith of men with so little intellectual or emotional interest in religion
as Squire Riversdale or Marmaduke Lemarchant is something very puzzling to the Protestant critic
who, for the reasons just insisted on, can have nothing corresponding to it in his own experience.
It is a psychological state of which his own religious system takes no account. Where there
is no intermediating Church, the soul is either in direct and mystical union with God or else
wholly estranged and indifferent. A man is either serious and religious-minded, or he is nothing.
Like an untutored child, if he is not naturally good, there is no one to make him so. But when
the Church is acknowledged as our tutor under God, as empowered by Him to lead us to Him; a
middle condition is found of those who are not naturally disposed to religion, and yet who
are submissive to that divine authority whose office it is to shape their souls to better sympathies.
Riversdale is a far truer type of the Catholic country squire of the old school than the somewhat
morbid and impossible Helbeck of Bannisdale. With her preconceived notions, Mrs. Humphrey Ward
could not imagine any alternative between 'religious' and 'irreligious' in the Puritan sense.
If Helbeck was to be a good Catholic at all he must of necessity be fanatically devoted to
the propagation of the faith and offer his fortune and energies to the service of an unscrupulous
clergy only too ready to play upon his credulous enthusiasm. His is represented as being naturally
a religious and mystical soul, but blighted and narrowed through the influence of Catholicism.
We are made to feel that the only thing the matter with him is his creed--"all those stifling
notions of sin, penance, absolution, direction, as they were conventionalized in Catholic practice
and chattered about by stupid and mindless people."

On the other hand, in Squire Riversdale and Marmaduke Lemarchant there is by nature nothing
but healthy humanity, no mystic or religious strain whatever; they are not semi-ecclesiastics
like Helbeck; and yet we feel that their prosaic lives are governed, restrained, and rectified
by a deep-rooted faith in the authority of the Catholic Church. "The qualities most obvious
are not those of the mystic, but of the manly out-of-door sportsman who may seem to be nothing
more than a bluff Englishman who rides to the hounds and does his ordinary duties. Yet one
of these red-coated cavaliers would, I have not the least doubt, if occasion called for it,
show himself capable of the very highest heroism. Men of action, I should say, and not of reflection--a
race of few words but of brave deeds."

It was just men of this unromantic type, men of solid but unostentatious faith, given wholly
to the business of this life save for one sovereign secret reserve, who in time of persecution
stood fast "ready any day to be martyred for the faith and to regard it as the performance
of a simple duty and nothing to boast of." And if there is in the type a certain narrowness
of sympathy and lack of intelligent interest which offends us, we may ask whether, with our
human limitations, narrowness is not to some extent the price we pay for strength; whether
where decision of judgment and energy of action is demanded, as in times of persecution, width
of view and multiplicity of sympathies may not be a source of weakness. Contrast, for example,
the character of Mark Fieldes with that of Marmaduke Lemarchant, and it will be clear that
the strength and straightness of the latter is closely associated with the absence of that
versatility of intellect and affection which make the former a more interesting but far less
lovable and estimable personality. To see all sides and issues of a question, is a speculative,
but not always a practical advantage; to have many diversified tastes and affections helps
to enlarge our sympathies, but not to concentrate our energies.

Of course great minds and strong hearts can afford to be comprehensive without loss of depth
and intensity; but our present interest is with ordinary mortals and average powers. A man
who has all his life unreflectingly adopted the traditional principle that death is preferable
to dishonour, that a lie is essentially dishonourable, will be far more likely to die for the
truth, than one who has philosophized much about honour and veracity, and whose resolution
is enfeebled by the consciousness of the weak and flimsy support which theory lends to these
healthy and universally received maxims. And similarly those who have received the faith by
tradition, who for years have assumed it in their daily conduct as a matter of course, in whom
therefore it has become an ingrained psychological habit, who hold it, in what might be condemned
as a narrow, unintellectual fashion, are just the very people who will fight and die for it,
when its more cultivated and reflective professors waver, temporize, and fall away. Taking
human nature as it is, who can doubt but that this is the way in which the majority are intended
to hold their religious, moral, philosophical, and political convictions; that reflex thought
is, must, and ought to be confined to a small minority whose function is slowly to shape and
correct that great body of public doctrine by which the beliefs of the multitude are ruled?
We do not mean to say that such prosaic "narrowness" as we speak of, is essential to strength;
but only that a habit of theoretical speculation and a continual cultivation of delicate sensibility
is a source of enervation which needs some compensating corrective. This corrective is found
in the exalted idealism which characterizes the great saints and reformers, such as Augustine,
or Francis, or Teresa, or Ignatius--souls at once mystical and energetically practical to the
highest degree. It is something of this temper which is parodied in Alan Helbeck. But the Church's
mission is not merely to those rare souls whose sympathy with her own mind and will is intelligent
and spontaneous; but at least as much to the multitudes who have to be guided more or less
blindly by obedience to tradition and authority, or else let wander as sheep having no shepherd.
These considerations explain why One Poor Scruple seems to us so far truer a presentment of
Catholic life than Helbeck of Bannisdale--the difference lying in the incommunicable advantage
which an insider possesses over an outsider in understanding the spirit and principles by which
the members of any social body are governed. Of all religions, Catholicism which represents
the accumulated results of two thousand years' worldwide experience of human nature applied
to the principles of the Gospel, is least likely to be comprehended by an outsider, however
observant and fair-minded.

To those for whom the lawfulness of re-marriage for an innocent divorcee is, like the rest
of their religious beliefs, a matter of opinion, the scruple of a character like Madge Riversdale
is unthinkable and incredible. Such women do not trouble their heads about theological points;
still less, make heroic sacrifices for their private and peculiar convictions. But those for
whom the Church is a definite concrete reality--almost a person--governing and teaching with
divine authority, will easily understand the firm grip she can and does exert on those who
have no other internal principle of restraint; who would shake themselves free if they dared.
Let those who despise the results of such a constraint be consistent and abolish all parental
and tutorial control; all educative government of whatsoever description; nay, the imperious
restraint of conscience itself, which is often obeyed but grudgingly.

While some features of this portrait of Catholic life are common to all its phases, others
are peculiar to the aspect it presents in England, where Catholics being a small and weak minority
are, so to say, self-conscious in their faith--continually aware that they are not as the rest
of men; disposed therefore to be apologetic or aggressive or defensive. Again, the circumstance
of their long exclusion from the social and intellectual life of their country is accountable
for other undesirable peculiarities which Mrs. Wilfrid Ward sees no reason to spare.

We have not, however, attempted anything like a literary estimate of this interesting, altogether
readable work, but have only endeavoured to draw attention to an important point, which, whether
intentionally or unintentionally, it illustrates very admirably.

May, 1899.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: One Poor Scruple. By Mrs. Wilfrid Ward. London: Longmans, 1899.]

[Footnote 2: We do not mean to imply that there is any close etymological relation between
these two uses of the term.]

XVI.

A LIFE OF DE LAMENNAIS.

The appearance of a work by the Hon. W. Gibson on The Abbé de Lamennais, and the Catholic Liberal
Movement in France, invites us to a new attempt to grapple with a problem which has so far
met with no satisfactory solution, and probably never will. Up to a certain point we seem to
follow more or less intelligently the working of the restless soul of De Lamennais; but at
the last and great crisis of his life we find all our calculations at fault; "we try to understand
him; we wish that penetrating into the inmost recesses of his wounded soul, we could force
it to yield up its secret, and once more sympathize with him, perhaps console him; but we cannot.
He is an enigma, as impenetrable as the rocks on his native shore."

From whatever point of view the story of his life is regarded, it presents itself as a tragedy.
The believing Catholic sees there the ruin of a vocation to such a work as only a few souls
in the history of the Church are called to accomplish--a ruin desperate and deplorable in proportion
to the force of the talents and energies diverted from the right path. The non-Catholic or
unbeliever cannot fail to be moved by contemplating the fruitless struggles of a mind so keen,
a heart so enthusiastic in the cause of light and liberty--struggles ending in failure, perplexity,
confusion, and misery. But while we allow a large element of mystery in his character which
will never be eliminated, yet as we return time after time to gaze upon the picture of his
life, as a whole, and in its details, the seemingly discordant items begin quietly to drop
into their places one after another, and to exhibit unnoticed connections; and the idea of
his distinctive personality begins to shape itself into a coherent unity.

It is not our purpose here to summarize Mr. Gibson's admirable work, or to give even an outline
of so well-known a history; but rather to attempt some brief criticism of the man himself,
and incidentally of his views.

Temperament and early education are among the principal determinants of character; and certainly
when we contrast Féli with his brother Jean, who presumably received the same home-training,
we see how largely he was the creature of temperament. Jean was by nature the "good boy," tractable
and docile; Féli, the unmanageable, the lawless, the violent. While Jean was dutifully learning
his lessons to order, Féli, the obstreperous, imprisoned in the library, was feeding his tender
mind with Diderot, Montaigne, Pascal, Voltaire, Rousseau, and similar diet, and at twelve exhibited
such infidel tendencies as made it prudent to defer his first Communion for some ten years.

From first to last, whether we consider his childish waywardness and outbreaks of violent passion,
which persevered in a less childish form through manhood; or the fits of intense depression
and melancholy, alternating with spells of high nerve-tension and feverish excitement; or the
restlessness and impatient energy which showed themselves always and everywhere, and at times
drove him like a wild man into the woods, "seeking rest and finding none;" or the prophetic,
not to say, the fanatical strain which breaks out in so much of his writing, especially in
the Paroles d'un Croyant,--in all alike there is evident that predominance of the imaginative
and emotional elements which, combined with intellectual gifts, constitute genius as commonly
understood. For such a character the training which would suffice for half a dozen good little
Jeans would be wholly inadequate. So much fire and feeling ill submits to the yoke of self-restraint
in matters moral or intellectual. The mind is apt to be fascinated by the brilliant pictures
of the imagination and to become a slave to the tyranny of a fixed idea; while the strength
of passionate desire paralyzes the power of free deliberation. It is precisely this self-restraint,
the fruit of a careful education given and responded to, that we miss in De Lammenais both
in his moral character and in his mind. Peace and tranquillity of soul are essential to successful
thinking, more especially in philosophy; and in proportion as a brilliant imagination is a
help, it is also a danger if let run riot. At times, wearied out with himself, he seems to
have felt the need of retreat and quiet; but he was almost as constitutionally incapable of
keeping still, as certain modern statesmen in their retirement from public life. We smile when
we hear him in the violent first fervour of his conversion, talking about becoming a Trappist,
and, later, a Jesuit. He knew himself better when he shrank so long and persistently from the
yoke of priesthood, and when, having yielded against his truer instincts to the indiscreet
zeal of pious friends, he experienced an agony of repugnance at his first Mass. With different
antecedents he might have profited by the yoke, but as things stood it could but gall him.

In spite of Mr. Gibson's contention to the contrary, it can hardly be maintained that De Lamennais
was well educated in the strict sense of the expression. The evidence he adduces points to
a marvellous diversity of interests, and even to close and careful reading. But on the whole
he was self-taught, and a self-taught man is never educated. Without intercourse with other
living minds, education is impossible. This is indeed hoisting De Lammenais with his own petard.
For, according to "Traditionalism," the mind is paralyzed by isolation, and can be duly developed
only in society. An overweening self-confidence and slight regard for the labours of other
thinkers usually characterizes self-taught genius. This it was that led him to cut all connection
with the philosophy of the past, and to attempt to build up, single-handed, a new system to
supplant that which had been the fruit of the collective mind-labour of centuries. "I shall
work out," he writes calmly to the Abbé Brute, "a new system for the defence of Christianity
against infidels and heretics, a very simple system, in which the proofs will be so rigorous
that unless one is prepared to give up the right of saying I am, it will be necessary to say
Credo to the very end." Only a man with a very slight and superficial acquaintance with the
endeavours of previous apologists, and the extreme difficulty of the problem, could speak with
such portentous self-confidence. And the result bears out this remark. For grand and imposing
as is the structure of the Essai sur l'Indifférence, it rests on fallacies so patent that none
but a man of no philosophical training could have failed to perceive them. Here it is that
the self-taught man comes to grief and often misses the mere truisms of traditional teaching.

Doubtless ecclesiastical philosophy and theology was then more than ever painfully fossilized,
and altogether lifeless and out of sympathy with the spirit of the age. It needed to be quickened,
adapted and applied to modern exigencies. The undue intrusion of metaphysics into the domain
of positive knowledge needed checking; the value of consensus communis as a criterion required
to be insisted on, defended, and exactly defined. With characteristic impetuosity, De Lamennais,
like Comte, must bundle metaphysics out of doors altogether as a merely provisional but illusory
synthesis, necessary for the human intellect in its adolescence, but to be discarded in its
maturity; and thereupon he proceeds to erect his system of Traditionalism mid-air, quite unconscious
that in clearing away metaphysics he has deprived the structure of its only possible foundation.
But this is the man all over. Because there is a truth in Traditionalism, therefore, it is
the whole and only truth; because metaphysics alone can do little, it is therefore unnecessary
and worthless. Had he spent but a fraction of the time and trouble he gave to the elaboration
of his own system, in a liberal and critical study of that which he desired to supersede, his
genius might have accomplished a work for the Church which is still halting badly on its way
to perfection. One feels something like anger in contemplating such hot-headed zeal standing
continually in its own light, and frustrating with perverse ingenuity the very end which it
was most desirous to realize. For no one can deny that from his first conversion to his unhappy
death De Lamennais was dominated by the highest and noblest and most unselfish motives; that
he was a man of absolute sincerity of purpose.

His earliest enthusiasm was for the defence and exaltation of the Catholic Faith, for the liberation
of the Church from the bonds of nationalism and Erastianism. Even those who repudiate altogether
the extreme Ultramontanism of De Maistre and De Lamennais must allow their conception to be
one of the boldest and grandest which has inspired the mind of man. He realized more vividly
than many that the cause of the Church and of society, of Catholicism and humanity, were one
and the same. It was the very intensity and depth of his convictions that made him so importunate
in pressing them on others, so intolerant of delay, so infuriated by opposition. For indeed
nothing is more common than to find a thousand selfishnesses co-existing and interfering with
a dominant unselfishness, lessening or totally destroying its fruitfulness for good. A man
who is unselfish enough to devote his fortune to charity will not necessarily be free from
faults which may more than undo the good he proposes.

The same hastiness of thought which moved him to a wholesale, indiscriminate condemnation of
metaphysics, led him to conclude that because hitherto no happy adjustment of the relations
between Church and State had been devised, there could be no remedy save in their total severance.
Doubtless such a severance would be better, if Gallicanism were the only alternative; or if
the Church's liberty and efficiency were to be seriously curtailed. A superficial glance might
fancy a fundamental discrepancy in this matter, as well as in the questions of toleration,
and of the freedom of the press, between the official teaching of Gregory XVI. and Pius IX.,
and that of Leo XIII. But a closer inspection shows no alteration of principle, and only a
recognition of altered circumstances, either necessitating a connivance at inevitable evils,
or totally changing the aspect of the question. But De Lamennais should have learnt from his
own teaching that liberty does not mean the independence of isolation, but the full enjoyment
of all the means necessary for perfect self-development; that it does not mean the weakness
of dissociation, but the strength of a perfectly organized association for mutual help and
protection. And this holds good, not for individuals alone, but for societies, and for Church
and State. Aiming at one common end, the perfection of humanity, they cannot but gain by association
and lose by dissociation. Each is weaker even, in its own sphere, apart from the other. It
is an unreal abstraction that splits man into two beings--a body and a soul; that draws a clean,
hard-and-fast line between his temporal and eternal welfare; that commits the former interest
to one society, the latter to another, absolutely distinct and unconnected. But all this holds
true only in the hypothesis of a nation of Christians or Theists.

When a large fraction of the community has ceased to believe in Christianity and the Church,
the demands of justice and reason are different. It may well be allowed that, to determine
the exact relation of the Catholic Church and Christian State, and the law of their organization
into one complex society, is a problem for whose perfect solution we must wait the further
development of the ideas of ecclesiastical and civil society. But to wait for growth of subjective
truth was just what De Lamennais could not do. He saw that past solutions of the problem had
been unsuccessful; that in most cases the Church was eventually drawn into bondage under the
State as its creature and instrument in the cause of tyranny and oppression; that it was insensibly
permeated with the local and national spirit, differentiated from Catholic Christendom, and
severed from the full influence of its head, the Vicar of Christ. The independence of the Church
he rightly judged to be the great safeguard of the people against the tyranny of their temporal
rulers. In the face of that world-wide spiritual society, whose voice was at once the voice
of humanity and the voice of God, he felt that "iniquity would stop its mouth," and injustice
be put to shame. Yet all this seemed to him impossible so long as the Church depended on the
State for temporalities, and because he could devise no form of association that would be guarantee
against all abuses, he therefore insisted on total, severance, not merely as expedient for
the present pressure, but as a divine and eternal principle.

When, therefore, it seemed to him that Gregory XVI. had condemned Ultramontanism, it was, to
De Lamennais, as though he had condemned the cause of the Church and of humanity, and thrown
the weight of his authority into that of Gallicanism. Here again we see how his mental intensity
and impatience reduced him to the dilemma which found solution in his apostasy. Holding as
he did to the Papal infallibility in a form far more extreme than that subsequently approved
by the Vatican Council, he was bound in consistency to accept the Pope's decision as infallible
in respect to its expediency and in all its detail. Thus it seemed to him that the ideal for
which he had lived was shattered by a self-inflicted blow. The infallible voice of humanity
had declared against the cause of humanity. He found himself compelled, in virtue of his principles,
to choose between two alternatives. Either the cause of humanity, as he conceived it, was not
the cause of God; or else the Pope was not the Vicar of Christ and the divinely-appointed guardian
of that cause. But of the two denials the former was now to him the least tolerable. "Catholicism,"
he said, "was my life, because it was that of humanity." Sacramenta, propter homines; the Church
was made for man, and not man for the Church. Given the dilemma, who shall blame his choice?
But the dilemma was purely subjective and imaginary. Though truths are never irreconcilable,
the exaggerations of truth may well be so.

Had he possessed that intellectual patience in perplexity, without which not only faith, but
true science, is impossible, he would have been driven not to apostasy, but to a careful re-sifting
of his views, issuing, perhaps, in a reconciliation of apparently adverse positions, or at
all events in a confession of subjective, uncertainty and confusion. Faith, in the wider sense
of the word, would have bid him to believe, without seeing, what we have lived to see under
Leo XIII.

This seems to be the intellectual aspect of his defection, though of course there were many
accelerating causes at work. Perhaps if Gregory XVI. had met his appeal with a few words of
simple explanation and advice, instead of with that mysterious reticence which is falsely supposed
to be the soul of diplomacy, the issue might have been as happy as it was miserable. De Lamennais
himself, in his Affaires de Rome, makes the same remark in so many words. Again, the illiberal
and ungenerous persecution of his triumphant adversaries, who endeavoured to goad him into
some open act of rebellion in order to bring him under still heavier condemnation, can scarcely
have failed to embitter and harden a soul naturally disposed to pessimism and melancholy. Nor
can we omit from the influences at work upon him, that dramatic instinct which makes a mediocre
and colourless attitude impossible for those who are strongly under its influence. Perhaps
no nation is more governed by it than the French, with their partiality for tableaux and sensation;
and in De Lamennais its presence was most marked, as the pages of his Paroles will witness.
In the Too Late with which he received the overtures of Pius IX.; in the studied sensationalism
of his funeral arrangements, and in many other minute points, we are made sensible that if
his life culminated in a tragedy, the tragic aspect of it was not altogether displeasing to
him. Still it would be a grievous slur on so great a character to suppose that such a weakness
could have had any considerable part in his steady and deliberate refusal to see a priest at
the last. This is sufficiently accounted for by the fact that he believed he could not be absolved
without accepting the condemnation of his own views, and so abandoning the cause of humanity.
While under the spell of his imaginary dilemma, he was constrained to follow the rule for a
perplexed conscience, and to choose what seemed to him the less of two evils.

After his ideal had been destroyed, and the Church could no longer be for him the Saviour of
the Nations, he threw himself without reserve into the cause of humanity and liberty. But his
aims were now almost entirely destructive and revolutionary. His enthusiasm was rather a hatred
of the things that were, than an ardent zeal for the things that ought to be; and the bitter
elements in his character become more and more accentuated as he finds himself gradually thrust
aside and forgotten--cast off by the Church, ignored by the revolution. Even his friends, with
one or two exceptions, dropped off one by one; some fleeing like rats from a sinking ship,
others perplexed at his obstinacy or offended by his violence; others removed by death or distance;
and we see him in his old age poor and lonely, and intensely unhappy.

When dangerously ill in 1827, he exclaimed, on being told that it was a fine night, "For my
peace, God grant that it may be my last." The prayer was not heard, for, as he felt on his
recovery, God had a great work for him to do. How that work was done we have just seen. Féli
de Lamennais, who would have been buried as a Christian in 1827, was buried as an infidel in 1854.

It is vain to contend that he was not a man of prayer. That he had a keen discernment in spiritual
things is evident from his Commentary on the Imitation and his other spiritual writings, as
well as from the testimony of his young disciples at La Chênaie, to whom he was not merely
a brilliant teacher, a most affectionate friend and father, but also a trusted guide in the
things of God. Yet this would be little had we not also assurance of his personal and private
devoutness.

All this would make his unfortunate ending a stumbling-block to those who cannot acquiesce
in the fact that in every soul tares and wheat in various proportions grow side by side, and
that which growth is to be victorious is not possible to predict with certainty; who deem it
impossible that one who ends ill could ever have lived well; or that one who loses his faith,
or any other virtue, could ever at any time have really possessed it. There is indeed some
kind of double personality in us all which is perhaps more observable in strongly-marked characters
like De Lamennais, where, so to say, the bifurcating lines are produced further. Proud men
have occasional moods of genuine humility; and habitual bitterness is allayed by intervals
of sweetness; and conversely, there are ugly streaks in the fairest marble.

And as to the fate of that restless soul, who shall dare to speak dogmatically? We cling gladly
to the story of the tear that stole down his face in death, and would fain see in it some confirmation
of the view according to which the soul receives in that crucial hour a final choice based
on the collective experience of its mortal life. We would hope that as there is a baptism of
blood or of charity, so there may perhaps be some uncovenanted absolution for one who so earnestly
loved mankind at large, and especially the poor and the oppressed; who in his old age and misery
was found by their sick-bed; who willed to be with them in his death and burial. And yet we
feel something of that agonizing uncertainty which forced from the aged Abbe Jean the bitter
cry, "Féli, Féli, my brother!"

Jan. 1897.

XVII.

LIPPO, THE MAN AND THE ARTIST.

"What pains me most," writes the late Sir Joseph Crowe in the Nineteenth Century for October,
1896, "is to think that the art of Fra Filippo, the loose fish, and seducer of holy women,
looks almost as pure, and is often quite as lovely as that of Fra Giovanni Angelico of Fiesole."
And indeed, if the fact be admitted, it cannot but be a shock to all those high-minded thinkers
who have committed themselves unreservedly to the view that personal sanctity and elevation
of character in the artist is an essential condition for the production of any great work of
art, and especially of religious art. As regards the fact, we need not concern ourselves very
long. If Rio and others, presumably biassed by the same theory, are inclined to see Lippi's
moral depravity betrayed in every stroke of his brush, yet the more general and truer verdict
accords him a place among the great masters of his age, albeit beneath Angelico and some others.
Beyond all doubt it must be allowed that even in point of spirituality and heavenliness of
expression, he stands high above numbers of artists of pure life and blameless reputation;
and this fact leaves us face to face with the problem already suggested as to the precise connection
between high morality and high art--if any.

Plainly a good man need not be a good artist. Must a good artist be a good man? I suppose from
a vague feeling in certain minds that it ought to be so, there rises a belief that it must
be so, and that it is so; and from this belief a disposition to see that it is so, and to read
facts accordingly. Prominent among the advocates of this view is Mr. Ruskin in his treatment
of the relation of morality to art. He holds "that the basis of art is moral; that art cannot
be merely pleasant or unpleasant, but must be lawful or unlawful, that every legitimate artistic
enjoyment is due to the perception of moral propriety, that every artistic excellence is a
moral virtue, every artistic fault is a moral vice; that noble art can spring only from noble
feeling, that the whole system of the beautiful is a system of moral emotions, moral selections,
and moral appreciation; and that the aim and end of art is the expression of man's obedience
to God's will, and of his recognition of God's goodness." [1]

But a man who can characterize a vulgar pattern as immoral, plainly uses the term "morality"
in some transcendental, non-natural sense, and therefore cannot be regarded as an exponent
of the precise theory referred to. Still, as this larger idea of morality includes the lesser
and more restricted, we may consider Mr. Ruskin and his disciples among those to whom the case
of Lippo Lippi and many another presents a distinct difficulty. "Many another," for the principle
ought to extend to every branch of fine art; and we should be prepared to maintain that there
never has been, or could have been, a truly great musician, or sculptor, or poet, who was not
also a truly good man. In a way the position is defensible enough; for one can, in every contrary
instance, patch up the artist's character or else pick holes in his work. Who is to settle
what is a truly great work or a truly good man. But a position may be quite defensible, yet
obviously untrue. Again, if by great art we mean that which is subordinated to some great and
good purpose, we are characterizing it by a goodness which is extrinsic to it, and is not the
goodness of art itself, as such. If the end of fine art is to teach, then its goodness must
be estimated by the matter and manner of its teaching, and a "moral pocket-handkerchief" must
take precedence of many a Turner. Yet it would even then remain questionable whether a good
and great moral teacher is necessarily a good man. In truth, a good man is one who obeys his
conscience, and whose conscience guides him right. If, in defect of the latter condition, we
allow that a man is good or well-meaning, it is because we suppose that his conscience is erroneous
inculpably, and that he is faithful to right order as far as he understands it. But one who
sees right and wills wrong is in no sense good, but altogether bad. Allowing that for the solution
of some delicate moral problems a certain height of tone and keenness of insight inseparable
from habitual conscientiousness is necessary, yet mere intellectual acumen, in the absence
of any notably biassing influence, suffices to give us as great a teacher as Aristotle, who,
if exonerated from graver charges, offers no example of astonishing elevation of heart at all
proportioned to the profundity of his genius. We do not deny that in the case of free assent
to beliefs fraught with grave practical consequences, the moral condition of the subject has
much to do with the judgments of the intellect. But first principles and their logical issues
belong to the domain of necessary truth; while in other matters a teacher may accept current
maxims and sentiments with which he has no personal sympathy, and weave from all these a whole
system of excellent and orthodox moral teaching. And if one may be a good moralist and a bad
man, why à fortiori may one not be a good artist and a bad man? If vice does not necessarily
dim the eye to ethical beauty, why should it blind it to aesthetic beauty? In order to get
at a solution we must fix somewhat more definitely the notion of fine art and its scope.

I think it is in a child's book called The Back of the North Wind, that a poet is somewhat
happily and simply defined as a person who is glad about something and wants to make other
people glad about it too. Yet mature reflection shows two flaws in this definition. First of
all, the theme of poetry, or any other fine art, need not always be gladsome, but can appeal
to some other strong emotion, provided it be high and noble. The tragedian is one who is thrilled
with awe and sorrow, and strives to excite a like thrill in others. Again, though the craving
for sympathy hardly ever fails to follow close on the experience of deep feeling; and though,
as we shall presently see, fine art is but an extension of language whose chief end is intercommunion
of ideas, yet this altruist end of fine art is not of its essence, but of its superabundance
and overflow. Expression for expression's sake is a necessity of man's spiritual nature, in
solitude no less than in society. To speak, to give utterance to the truth that he sees, and
to the strong emotions that stir within his heart, is that highest energizing in which man
finds his natural perfection and his rest. His soul is burdened and in labour until it has
brought forth and expressed to its complete satisfaction the word conceived within it. Nor
is it only within the mind that he so utters himself in secret self-communing; for he is not
a disembodied intelligence, but one clothed with body and senses and imagination. His medium
of expression is not merely the spiritual substance of the mind, but his whole complex being.
Nor has he uttered his "word" to his full satisfaction till it has passed from his intellect
into his imagination, and thence to his lips, his voice, his features, his gesture. And when
the mind is more vigorous and the passion for utterance more intense, he will not be at rest
while there is any other medium in which he can embody his conception, be it stone, or metal,
or line, or colour, or sound, or measure, or imagery, which under his skilled hand can be made
to shadow out his hidden thought and emotion. We cannot hold with Max Müller and others, who
make thought dependent and consequent on language.

For it is evident, on a moment's introspection, that thought makes language for itself to live
in, just as a snail makes its own shell or a soul makes its own body. Who has not felt the
anguish of not being able to find a word to hit off his thought exactly?--which surely means
that the thought was already there unclothed, awaiting its embodiment. As the soul disembodied
is not man, so thought not clothed in language is not perfect human thought. Its essence is
saved, but not its substantial, or at least its desirable, completeness. A man thinks more
fully, more humanly, who thinks not with his mind alone, but with his imagination, his voice,
his tongue, his pen, his pencil. If, therefore, solitary contemplative thought is a legitimate
end in itself; if it is that ludus, or play of the soul, which is the highest occupation of
man, a share in the same honour must be allowed to its accompanying embodiment; to the music
which delights no ear but the performer's; to poetry, to painting, to sculpture done for the
joy of doing, and without reference to the good of others communicating in that joy. And if
the Divine Artist, whose lavish hand fills everything with goodness; who pours out the treasures
of His love and wisdom in every corner of our universe; of whose greatness man knows not an
appreciable fraction; who "does all things well" for the very love of doing and of doing well;
who utters Himself for the sake of uttering, not only in His eternal, co-equal, all-expressive
Word, but also in the broken, stammering accents of a myriad finite words or manifestations--if
this Divine Artist teaches us anything, it is that man, singly or collectively, is divinest
when he finds rest and joy in utterance for its own sake, in "telling the glory of God and
showing forth His handiwork," or, as Catholic doctrine puts it, in praise; for praise is the
utterance of love, and love is joy in the truth.

As most of the useful arts perfect man's executive faculties, and thus are said to improve
upon, while in a certain sense they imitate nature; so the fine arts extend and exalt man's
faculty of expression, or self-utterance, regarded not precisely as useful and propter aliud;
but as pleasurable and propter se. Even the most uncultivated savage finds pleasure in some
discordant utterance of his subjective frame of mind; and it is really hard to find any tribe
so degraded as to show no rudiment of fine art, no sign of reflex pleasure in expression, and
of inventiveness in extending the resources nature has provided us with for that end.

The artist as such aims at self-expression for its own sake. It is a necessity of his nature,
an outpouring of pent-up feeling, as much as is the song of the lark. Of course we are speaking
of the true creative artist, and not of the laborious copyist. If he subordinates his work
as a means to some further end; if his aim is morality or immorality, truth or error, pleasure
or pain; if it is anything else than the embodiment or utterance of his own soul, so far he
is acting riot as an artist, but as a minister of morality, or truth, or pleasure, or their
contraries. If we keep this idea steadily in view, we can see how much truth, or how little,
is contained in the various theories of fine art which have been advanced from the earliest
times. We can see how truly art is a [Greek: mimaesis] an imitating of realities; not that
art-objects are, as Plato supposes, faint and defective representations, vicegerent species
of the external world, whose beauty is but the transfer and dim reflection of the beauty of
nature. Were it so, then the mirror, or the camera, were the best of all artists. As expression,
fine art is the imitation of the soul within; of outward realities as received into the mind
and heart of the artist, in their ideal and emotional setting. The artist gives word or expression
to what he sees; but what he sees is within him. His work is self-expression. We can from this
infer where to look for a solution of the controversy between idealism and realism. We can
also see how, owing to the essential disproportion between the material and sensible media
of expression which art uses, and the immaterial and spiritual realities it would body forth,
its utterances must always be symbolic, never literal. We can see how needlessly they embarrass
themselves who deny the name of fine art to any work whose theme is not beautiful, or which
is not morally didactic. Finally, we can see that if fine art be but an extension of language,
there can be no immediate connection between art as art, and general moral character; no more
reason for supposing that skilful and beautiful self-utterance is incompatible with immorality,
than that its absence is incompatible with sanctity.

Yet, as a matter of fact, and rightly, we judge of art not merely as art, or as expression;
but we look to that which is expressed, to the inner soul which is revealed to us, to the "matter"
as well as to the "form." And it maybe questioned whether our estimate of a work is not rather
determined in most cases by this non-artistic consideration. Obviously it is possible in our
estimate of a landscape, to be drawn away from the artistic to the real beauty; from its merits
as a "word," or expression, to the merits of the thing signified. And still more naturally
is our admiration drawn from the artist's self-utterance, to the self which he endeavours to
utter, and we are brought into sympathy with his thought and feeling. Much of the fascination
exercised over us by art, which precisely as art is rude and imperfect in many ways, is to
be ascribed to this source. Though here we must remember that the soul is often more truly
and artistically betrayed by the simple lispings of childhood than by the ornate and finished
eloquence of a rhetorician.

It is in regard to the matter expressed, rather than to the mode of expression, that we have
a right to look for a difference between such men as Lippo Lippi and Fra Angelico. According
to a man's inner tone and temperament and character, will be the impression produced upon him
by the objects of his contemplation. These will determine him largely in the choice of his
themes, and in the aspect under which he will treat them. Obviously in many cases there are
noble themes of art for whose appreciation no particular delicacy of moral or religious taste
is required. There is no reason why such a subject as the Laocoon should make a different impression
on a saint and on a profligate. It appeals to the tragic sense, which may be as highly developed
in one as in the other. But if the Annunciation be the theme, we can well understand how differently
it will impress a man of lively and cultured faith, a contemplative and mystic, with an appreciative
and effective love of reverence and purity; and another whose faith is a formula, whose life
is impure, frivolous, worldly. Why then is there not a more distinctly marked inferiority in
the religious art of Lippi to that of Angelico? Why does it look "almost as pure," and "often
quite as lovely"? Two very clear reasons offer themselves in reply. First of all, the art of
such a man as Angelico falls far more hopelessly short of his ideal. Most of the beauties which
such a soul would find in the contemplation of Mary, or of Gabriel, are spiritual, moral, non-æsthetic,
and can embody themselves in form and feature only most imperfectly. Given equal skill in expression,
equal command of words, one man can say all that he feels, and more, while another is tortured
with a sense of much more to be uttered, were it not unutterable. Perhaps it is in some hint
of this hidden wealth of unuttered meaning that skilled eyes find in Angelico what they can
never find in Lippi. A second reason might be found in the external influence exerted on the
artist by society, its requirements, fashions, and conventions. It is plain that Lippi, left
to himself, would never have chosen religious themes as such: it is equally plain, that having
chosen them, he would naturally try to emulate and eclipse what was most admired in the great
works of his predecessors and contemporaries. It would need little more than a familiar acquaintance
with the great models, together with the artist's discriminating observance, for a man of Lippi's
talent to catch those lines and shades of form and feature which hint at, rather than express,
the inward purity, the reverence, the gentleness, with which he himself was so little in sympathy.

No doubt, were two such men equally skilled in all the arts of expression, in language, in
verse, in song and music, in sculpture and painting, and acting, their general treatment of
religious themes would be more glaringly different; but within the comparatively narrow limits
of painting, we cannot reasonably expect more than we actually find.

The saint, as such, and the artist, as such, are occupied with different facets of the world;
the former with its moral, the latter with its æsthetic beauty. Even were the artist formally
to recognize that all the beauty in nature is but the created utterance of the Divine thought
and love, and that the real, though unknown, term of his abstraction is not the impersonal
symbol, but the person symbolized; yet it is not enough for sanctity or morality to be attracted
to God viewed simply as the archetype of æsthetic beauty. On the other hand, one may be drawn,
through the love of moral beauty in creatures, of justice, and mercy, and liberality, and truthfulness,
to the love of God as their archetype, and yet be perfectly obtuse to æsthetic beauty; and
thus again we see that high æstheticism is compatible with low morality, and conversely. Doubtless
when produced to infinity, all perfections are seen to converge and unite in God, but short
of this, they retain their distinctness and opposition. At the same time, it cannot for a moment
be denied that keenness of moral, and of æsthetic perception, act and react upon one another.
He gains much morally whose eyes are opened to the innumerable traces of the Divine beauty
with which he is surrounded, and there are æsthetic joys which are necessarily unknown to a
soul which is selfish and gross--still more to a soul from which the glories of revealed religion
are hidden, either through unbelief or sluggish indifference. Yet, on the whole, it may be
said that sanctity is benefited by art more than art is by sanctity, especially where we deal
with so limited a medium of expression as painting. And so it seems to us that, after all,
there is nothing to surprise or pain us in the fact that "the art of a Fra Filippo, the loose
fish, looks almost as pure, and is often quite as lovely as that of Fra Giovanni Angelico of
Fiesoli."

Dec. 1896.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: Vernon Lee, Belcaro.]

XVIII.

THROUGH ART TO FAITH.

There are few books more difficult to estimate than those in which M. Huysman sets forth the
story of a conversion generally supposed to bear no very distant resemblance to his own. It
would be easy to find excellent reasons for a somewhat sweeping condemnation of his work, and
others as excellent for a most cordial approval; and, indeed, we find critics more than usually
at variance with one another in its regard. To be judged justly, these books must be judged
slowly. The source of perplexity is to be found in the fact that the author, who has recently
passed from negation to Catholicism, carries with him the language, the modes of thought, the
taste and temper of the literary school of which he was, and, in so many of his sympathies,
is still a pupil, a school which regards M. Zola as one of its leading lights. En Route, and
its sequels, portray in the colours of realism, in the language of decadence, the conversion
of a realist, nay, of a decadent, to mysticism and faith. "The voice indeed is the voice of
Jacob, but the hands are the hands of Esau," and according as the critic centres his attention
too exclusively on one or the other, such will his judgment be.

That his works have commanded attention, and awakened keen interest among members of the most
varying and opposite schools of thought, is an undeniable fact which at all events proves them
to be worth careful consideration.

The story of a soul's passage from darkness to light, of its wanderings, vacillations, doubts,
and temptations, must necessarily exercise a strong fascination over all minds of a reflective
cast: "The development of a soul!" says Browning, "little else is worth study. I always thought
so; you, with many known and unknown to me, think so; others may one day think so." [1] It
is from this attraction of soul to soul that the Pilgrim's Progress, together with many kindred
works, derives its spell; and indeed it is to this that all that is best and greatest in art
owes its power and immortal interest. Here, however, is one reason why The Cathedral [2] can
never be so attractive as En Route, ministering as it does but little to that deepest and most
insatiable curiosity concerning the soul and its sorrows. It portrays but little perceptible
movement, little in the way of violent revulsion and conflict; the spiritual growth which it
registers is mostly underground, a strengthening and spreading of the roots. It deals with
a period of quiet healing and convalescence after a severe surgical operation; with the "illuminative"
stage of conversion--for there is scarcely any doubt that the three volumes correspond to the
"purgative," "illuminative," and "unitive" ways respectively.

Between pulling down and building up--both sensational processes, especially the former--there
intervenes a sober time of planning and surveying, a quiet taking of information before entering
on a new campaign of action. When the affections have been painfully and violently uprooted
from earth, then first is the mind sufficiently free from the bias of passion and base attachments
to be instructed and illuminated with profit in the things concerning its peace, and to be
prepared for the replanting of the affections in the soil of Heaven. The arid desert, with
its seemingly aimless wanderings, intervenes between the exodus from Egypt and the entrance
into the Land of Promise.

Dealing with this stage of the process of conversion, The Cathedral is comparatively monotonous
and barren of spiritual incident. What removes it still further from all chances of anything
like popularity in this country is the extent to which it is occupied with matters of purely
archæological and artistic interest, and more especially with the mystical symbolism of the
middle ages as chronicled in every detail of the great Cathedral of Chartres. Little as may
be the enthusiasm for such lore in France, it is far less in England, where the people have
for three centuries been out of all touch with the Catholic Church, and therefore with whatever
modicum of mediævalism she still preserves as part of her heritage from the past. Architecturally
we appreciate our dismantled cathedrals to some extent, but their symbolism is far less understood
than even the language and theology of the schools, while the study of it meets as much sympathy
as would the study of heraldry in a modern democracy. Yet we may say that the bulk of the book
consists of an inventory of every symbolic detail in architecture, in sculpture, in painting,
in glass-colouring, to be found at Chartres; to which is added a careful elaboration of the
symbolism of beasts, flowers, colours, perfumes, all very dreary reading for the uninitiated,
and to be criticized only by the expert.

Little scope as the plan of the book offers for any variety or display of character, being
mainly occupied with erudite monologue, put sometimes into the mouth of Durtal, sometimes into
that of the Abbé Plomb, yet the personalities of these two, as well as those of Géversin, Madame
Bavoil, and Madame Mesurat, stand out very vividly, and make us wish for that fuller acquaintance
with them which a little more movement and incident would have afforded.

But what will give most offence, and tend to alienate a certain amount of intelligent and valuable
sympathy, is the violence, and even the coarseness, with which the author, or at least his
hero, handles, not only the opinions, but the very persons of those from whom he differs; the
intemperance of his invective, the narrow intolerance and absolute self-confidence with which
he sits in judgment on men and things.

As a matter of fact, this is rather a defect of style and expression than of the inner sentiment.
It is part and parcel of the realist temper to blurt out the thought in all the clothing or
nakedness with which it first surges up into consciousness, before it has been submitted to
the censorship of reason; in a word, to do its thinking aloud, or on paper; to give utterance
not to the tempered and mature judgment--the last result of refinement and correction, but
to display the whole process and working by which it was reached. As it is part of M. Zola's
art to linger lovingly over each little horror of some slaughter-house scene, until the whole
lives for us again as in a cinematograph, so M. Huysman, engaged in the portrayal of a spiritual
conflict, spares us no link in the chain of causes by which the final result is produced; he
bares the brain, and exposes its workings with all the scientific calmness of the vivisector.

Whether we like or dislike this realism, we must allow for it in forming our judgment on these
volumes, nor must we treat as final and approved opinions what are often the mere spontaneous
suggestions and first thoughts of the mind, the oscillations through which it settles down
to rest. Over and over again we shall find that Durtal subsequently raises the very objection
to his own view that was on our lips at the first reading of it.

But even making such allowance, it none the less remains a matter of regret that one who, with
perhaps some justice, considers that in point of art-appreciation "the Catholic public is still
a hundred feet beneath the profane public," and chides them for "their incurable lack of artistic
sense," who speaks of "the frightful appetite for the hideous which disgraces the Church of
our day," who himself in many ways, in a hundred passages of sublime thought, of tender piety,
of lyrical poesy, has proved beyond all cavil his delicacy of sentiment, his exquisite niceness
in matters of taste, his reverence for what is chaste and beautiful, should at times be so
deplorably unfaithful to his better instincts, so forgetful of the close and inseparable alliance
between restraint and elegance. What can be weaker or uglier, more unbecoming an artist, more
becoming a fish-wife, than his description of Lochner's picture of the Virgin: "The neck of
a heifer, and flesh like cream or hasty-pudding, that quivers when it is touched;" or of the
picture of St. Ursula's companions, by the same hand: "Their squab noses poking out of bladders
of lard that did duty for their faces;" not to speak of the characterization of a "Sacred Heart"
too revolting to reproduce? Surely when, after having reviled M. Tissot almost personally,
he describes his works as painted with "muck, wine-sauce, and mud," it is difficult not to
answer with a tu quoque as far as this word-painting is concerned--difficult not to see here
some morbid and "frightful appetite for the hideous" struggling with the healthy appetite for
better things.

However lame and ridiculous an artist's utterance may be, yet there is a certain reverence
sometimes due to what he is endeavouring to say, and even to his desire to say it. We do not
think it very witty or tasteful or charitable to laugh at a man because he stammers; still
less do we overwhelm him with the coarsest abuse. One may well shudder at most presentments
of the Sacred Heart, but even apart from all consideration for the artist, a certain reverence
for the idea there travestied and unintentionally dishonoured, should forbid our insulting
what after all is so nearly related to that idea, and in the eyes of the untaught very closely
identified with it.

But an occasional trespass of this kind, however offensive, is not enough to detract materially
from the value of so much that is meritorious; nor again will that outspoken treatment of delicate
topics (less observable in The Cathedral than in En Route), which makes the book undesirable
for many classes of readers, prevent its due appreciation on the part of others--unless we
are going to put the Sacred Scriptures on the Index. In this vexed question, M. Huysman takes
what seems the more robust and healthy view, but he appears to be quite unaware how many difficulties
it involves; and consequently lashes out with his usual intemperance against the contrary tradition,
which is undeniably well represented. It is not as though the advocates of the "flight" policy
in regard to temptations against this particular virtue were ignorant of the general principle
which undoubtedly holds as regards all other temptations, and bids us turn and face the dog
that barks at our heels. This counsel is as old as the world. But from the earliest time a
special exception has been made to it in the one case of impurity by those who have professedly
spoken in the light of experience rather than of à priori inference. Both views are encompassed
with difficulty, nor does any compromise suggest itself.

What seems to us one of the most interesting points raised by the story of Durtal's spiritual
re-birth and development is the precise relation between the Catholic religion and fine art.

God has not chosen to save men by logic; so neither has He chosen to save them by fine art.
If the "election" of the Apostolic Church counted but few scribes or philosophers among its
members--and those few admitted almost on sufferance--we may also be sure that the followers
of the Galilean fishermen were not as a body distinguished by a fastidious criticism in matters
of fine art. In after ages, when the Church asserted herself and moulded a civilization more
or less in accordance with her own exigencies and ideals, it is notorious how she made philosophy
and art her own, and subjected them to her service; but whether in so doing she in any way
departed from the principles of Apostolic times is what interests us to understand.

There is certainty no more unpardonable fallacy than that of "Bible Christians," who assume
that the Church in the Apostolic age had reached its full expansion and expression, and therefore
in respect of polity, liturgy, doctrinal statement and discipline must be regarded as an immutable
type for all ages and countries; from which all departure is necessarily a corruption. They
take the flexible sapling and compare it with aged knotty oak, and shake their heads over the
lamentable unlikeness: "That this should be the natural outgrowth of that! O tempora, O mores!"

Like every organism, in its beginning, the Church was soft-bodied and formless in all these
respects; but she had within her the power of fashioning to herself a framework suited to her
needs, of assuming consistency and definite shape in due time. The old bottles would not serve
to hold the new wine, but this did not mean that new bottles were not to be sought. Because
the philosophy, the art, the polity of the age in which she was born were already enlisted
in the service of other ideas and inextricably associated with error in the minds of men, it
was needful for her at first to dissociate herself absolutely from the use of instruments otherwise
adaptable in many respects to her own ends, and to wait till she was strong enough to alter
them and use them without fear of scandal and misinterpretation.

The Church is many-tongued; but though she can deliver her message in any language, yet she
is not for that reason independent of language in general. There is no way to the human ear
and heart but through language of some kind or another. It is not her mission to teach languages,
but to use the languages she finds to hand for the expression of the truths, the facts, the
concrete realities to which her dogmas point. This does not deny that one language may not
be more flexible, more graphic than any other, more apt to express the facts of Heaven as well
as those of earth. It only denies that any one is absolutely and exclusively the best.

It is no very great violence to include rhetoric, music, painting, sculpture, architecture,
ritual, and every form of decorative art in the category of language and to bring them under
the same general laws, since even philosophy may to a large extent be treated in the same way.
Christ has not commissioned His Church to teach science or philosophy, nor has He given her
an infallible magisterium in matters of fine art. She uses what she finds in use and endeavours
with the imperfect implements, the limited colours, the coarse materials at her disposal to
make the picture of Christ and His truth stand out as faithful to reality as possible; and--to
press the illustration somewhat crudely--as what is rightly black, in a study in black and
white, may be quite wrongly black in polychrome; so what the Church approves according to one
convention, she may condemn according to another. May we not apply to her what Durtal says
of our Lady: "She seems to have come under the semblance of every race known to the middle
ages; black as an African, tawny as a Mongolian;"--"she unveils herself to the children of
the soil ... these beings with their rough-hewn feelings, their shapeless ideas, hardly able
to express themselves"? The more we study the visions and apparitions with which saints have
been favoured and the revelations which have been vouchsafed to them, the more evident is it
that they are spoken to in their own language, appealed to through their own imagery. Indeed,
were it not so, how could they understand? Our Lady is the all-beautiful for every nation,
but the type of human beauty is not the same for all. The Madonna of the Ethiopian might be
a rather terrifying apparition in France or Italy.

There is no art too rough or primitive, or even too vulgar, for the Church to disdain, if it
offers the only medium of conveying her truth to certain minds. Though custom has made it classical,
her liturgical language, whether Latin or Greek, when first assumed, was that of the mob--about
as elegant as we consider the dialects of the peasantry. She did not use plain-chaunt for any
of those reasons which antiquarians and ecclesiologists urge in its favour now-a-days, but
because it was the only music then in vogue. Even to-day the breeziest popular melodies in
the East are suggestive of the Oratio Jeremiæ. Her vestments (even Gothic vestments!) were
once simply the "Sunday best" of the fashion of those days. If to-day these things have a different
value and excellence, it is in obedience to the law by which what is "romantic" in one age
becomes "classical" in the next, or what is at first useful and commonplace becomes at last
ceremonial and symbolic; and by which the common tongue of the vulgar comes by mere process
of time to be archaic and stately. To "create" ancient custom and ritual on a sudden, or to
resuscitate abruptly that which has lapsed into oblivion, is, to say the least, a very Western
idea, akin to the pedantry of trying to restore Chaucer's English to common use. Nascitur non
fit, is the law in all such matters.

While we assert the Church's independence of any one in particular of these means of self-expression,
her indifference to style and mode of speech so long as substantial fidelity is secured, we
must not deny that some of them are, of their own nature, more apt to her purpose than others
and allow a fuller revelation of her sense; and that in proportion as her influence is strong
in the world she tends to modify human thought and language, to leaven philosophy and fine
art, so as to form by a process of selection and refusal, and in some measure even to create,
an ever richer and more flexible medium of utterance.

In this sense we can with some caution speak of "Catholic art" in music, architecture, and
painting, so far, that is, as we can determine the extent and nature of the Church's action,
and therefore the tendency of her influence in the way of stimulus and restraint with regard
to subject and treatment. We do not unjustly discern an author's style as a personal element
distinct from the language and phraseology of which no item is his own. The manner in which
he uses that language, his selections and refusals make, in union with the borrowed elements,
a tongue that may be called his, in an exclusive sense. The Church, too, has her style, which,
though difficult to discern amid her use of a Pentecostal variety of languages, is no doubt
always the same--at least in tendency.

Salvation-Army worship is certainly not of the Church's style, but I do not think, were there
no absolute irreverence and scandal to be feared, that she would hesitate to use such a language,
were it the only one understood by such a people. St. Francis Xavier's "catechisms" were often
hardly less uncouth. Still, her whole tendency would be towards restraint, order, and exterior
reverence. Again, the stoical coldness and formalism of a liturgical worship, centered round
no soul-stirring mystery of Divine love where there can be feeling so strong as to need the
restraint of liturgy and ritual, has still less of the Church's style about it. For she is
human, not merely in her reason and self-restraint, but in the fulness of her passion and enthusiasm;
and restraint is only beautiful and needful where there is something to restrain.

We are now in a position to consider the surface objection that will present itself to many
a reader concerning Durtal's conversion. "He has been converted," it will be said, "by a fallacy.
He has identified the Catholic religion with the cause of plain-chaunt and Gothic architecture,
and of all that is, or that he considers to be, best in art. He has laid hold not of Catholicism,
but of its merest accessories, which it might shake off any day, and him along with them. Indeed,
he scarcely makes any pretence at being in sympathy with the Catholicism of to-day, which he
regards as almost entirely philistine and degenerate, if we except La Trappe and Solesmes and
a few other corners where the old observances linger on. 'It was so ugly, so painfully adorned
with images, that only by shutting his eyes could Durtal endure to remain in Notre Dame de
la Brèche.' Yes, but what sort of convert is this who is so insensible to substantials, so
morbidly sensitive about mere accidentals? We come to the Church for the true faith and the
sacraments, not for 'sensations.' In fine, Durtal has not observed the route prescribed by
the apologetics for reaching the door of the sheep-fold, but has climbed over in his own way,
like a thief and a robber; he has not (as a recent critic says of him) tombé entre les bras
maternals de l'Eglise selon toutes les régles."

Without for a moment denying one of the legitimate claims of scientific apologetic, we may
at once dismiss the idea that it pretends to represent a process through which the mind of
the convert to Christianity either does or ought necessarily to pass. Its sole purport is to
show that if it is not always possible to synthetize Christianity with the current philosophy,
science, and history of the day, at least no want of harmony can be positively demonstrated.
As secular beliefs and opinions are continually shifting, so too apologetic needs continual
adjustment: and as that of a century back is useless to us now, so will ours be in many ways
inadequate a century hence. It is fitting for the Church at large that she should in each age
and country have a suitable apologetic, taking cognizance of the latest developments of profane
knowledge. It is needful for her public honour in the eyes of the world that she should not
seem to be in contradiction with truth, but that either the apparent truth should be proved
questionable, or else that her own teaching should be shown to be compatible with it. But in
no sense is such apologetic always a necessity for the individual, still less a safe or adequate
basis for a solid conversion, which in that case would be shaken by every new difficulty unthought
of before.

Our subjective faith in the Church must be like the faith of the disciples of Christ, an entirely
personal relation; an act of implicit trust based on no lean argument or chain of reasoning,
but on the irresistible spell, the overmastering impression created upon us by a character
manifested in life, action, speech, even in manner; as impossible to state in its entirety
and as impossible to doubt as are our reasons for loving or loathing, for trusting or fearing.

No doubt we hear of men of intellect and learning "reading" or "reasoning" themselves into
the Church; but others as able have read and reasoned along the same line, and yet have not
come; for in truth, reason at the most can set free a force of attraction created by motives
other than reason.

What this attraction is in each case is impossible to specify accurately--"Ask me and I know
not," one might say, "do not ask me and I know." Each soul is hooked with its own bait, called
by its own name, drawn in its own way; and as the attractiveness of Christ is virtually infinite
in its multiformity, so is that of His Church, nor is there a more unpardonable narrowness
than that of insisting that others shall be drawn in the same way as we ourselves, or not at all.

Let it also be noticed that a very prolonged and minute intimacy is not always necessary in
order that we should feel the spell of personality. Much depends on our own gifts of sympathy,
insight and apprehension, on the simplicity and strength of the personality in question, on
the nature of the incidents by which it is disclosed to us. We know one man in a moment, another
only after years of intimacy, while others in regard to the same individuals might experience
the converse. We must not then suppose that because in one case the impression is the result
of slowly-accumulated observations, and in another the work of an instant, it is less trustworthy
in the latter instance than in the former. It may be, or it may not be. St. Augustine needed
years to feel the spell that one word, nay, one glance from Christ cast upon St. Peter. Nor
again is it always in some striking and notable crisis that a character reveals itself abruptly,
but often in the merest nuance--a manner, an intonation, something quite unintentional, unpremeditated.
We know well, if we know ourselves at all, how irresistible is the impression created on us
at times by such trifles, and yet how more than reasonable it often is.

Who shall say, then, that to an eye and heart attuned to quick sympathy, any indication is
too small to betray the inward spirit and character of the Catholic Church, or to magnetize
a soul and render it restless, until it obeys her attraction and rests in union with her?

To a sensitively artistic temperament such as Durtal's, the indications of the Church's "style,"
revealed in her influence upon art, in her creations, in her selections and refusals, would
be eloquent of her whole character and ethos; it would be to him what the very tone of Christ's
voice was to the Baptist, or what His glance was to Peter, or what His silence was to Pilate.
We have known too many instances of deep-seated and entire conviction, based on seemingly as
little or less, to wish for one moment to indulge in any foolish rationalizing or to question
the possibility or probability of God's drawing souls to Himself by such methods.

We must, however, remember that it is not merely by the Church's mediæval art that Durtal is
attracted, but still more by that mysticism which created it, and by which it was served and
fostered in return. Mysticism must necessarily excite the sympathy of one who is in devout
pursuit of the highest and most spiritual forms of æsthetic beauty. Whatever be the long-sought
and never-to-be-forgotten definition of the Beautiful, of this much at least a mere process
of induction will assure us, that men count things beautiful in the measure that they are released
from the grossness, formlessness, and heaviness of matter, and by their delicacy, shapeliness,
and unearthliness, betray the influence of that principle which is everywhere in conflict with
matter and is called spirit. Man at his best is most at home, where at his worst he is least
at home, namely, in the world of those super-realities which are touched and felt by the soul,
but refuse to be pictured or spoken in the language of the five senses. A hard, "common-sense,"
labour-and-wages religion, such as is consonant with the utilitarianism of a commercial civilization,
could never appeal to a temperament like Durtal's.

Doubtless Catholic Christianity admits of being apprehended under the narrower and grosser
aspect, which however inadequate and unworthy, is not absolutely false. The Jews were suffered
to believe not merely that God rewards the just and punishes the wicked--which is eternally
true--but that He does so in this life, which is true only with qualification; and that He
rewards them with temporal prosperity and adversity--which is hardly true at all. Catholic
truth, in itself the same, can only be received according to the recipient's capacity and sensitiveness.
What one age or country is alive to, another may be dead to; nor can we pretend that here all
is progress and no regress, unless we are prepared to say that in no respect have we anything
to learn from the past. The Ignatian meditation on the "Kingdom of Christ" evoked heroic response
in an age impregnated with the sentiments of chivalry, but to-day it needs to be adapted to
a great extent, and some have vainly hoped to gather grapes from a thistle by substituting
a parable drawn from some soul-stirring commercial enterprise--a colossal speculation in cheese.

Whatever signs there may be of a reaction, yet the whole temper and spirit of our age is unfavourable
to that mysticism which is the very choicest flower of the Catholic religion. The blame is
not with the seed, but with the soil. Even where least of all we should look for such indifference,
among those who have built up the sepulchres and shrines of the great masters of mysticism,
we sometimes observe a profound distrust for what is esteemed an unpractical, unhealthy kind
of piety, while every preference is given to what is definite and tangible in the way of little
methods and industries, multitudinous practices, lucrative prayers, in a word, to what a critic
already quoted describes as les petitesses des cerveaux étroits et les anguleuses routines. [3]

It is one of the narrownesses of Durtal himself to ascribe all this to the wilful perversity
of a person or persons unknown, and not to see in it the inevitable result of the vulgarizing
tendency of modern life upon the masses. Things being as they are, surely it is better that
the Church should do the little she can than do nothing at all. The "meditative mind" is incompatible
with the rush and worry of a busy life, especially where educational methods substitute information
for reflection, and so kill the habit, and eventually the faculty, of thought in so many cases.
But if the higher prayer is impossible, the lower is possible and profitable. Again, if the
liturgical sense has in a great measure become extinct among the faithful owing to the unavoidable
disuse of the public celebration of the Church's worship, it is well that they should be allowed
devotions accommodated to their limited capacity. As the Church would never dream of expecting
a keen sympathy with her higher dogmas, her mystical piety, her artistic symbolism, her transcendent
liturgy, on the part of a newly-converted tribe of savages, so neither is she impatient with
the civilized Philistine, but is willing to speak to him in a language all his own, hoping
indeed to tune his tongue one day to something less uncouth. None can sympathize more cordially
than the writer does with Durtal in his horror of unauthorized devotions, of insufferable vernacular
litanies, of nerveless and sickly hymns, of interminable "acts of consecration" void of a single
definite idea, more especially when these things are brought into the very sanctuary itself,
with stole and cope and every apparent endeavour to fix the responsibility on the Universal
Church. But if the Church is willing to go in rags to save those who are in rags, she is only
using her invariable economy. We know well the sort of robe that befits her dignity, and no
doubt it is this contrast that makes the trial of her present humiliation more difficult for
us to bear.

We do not for a moment allow that the difference between bad taste and good is merely relative,
or that a language or art which is externally vulgar can ever be the adequate and appropriate
expression of the Catholic religion, whose tendency when unimpeded is ever to refine and purify.
But it is perhaps another narrowness to suppose that a reform can only be effected by a return
to the past, to mediæval symbolism and music and architecture. No effort of the kind has ever
met with more than seeming success. What is consciously imitated from the past is not the same
as that natural growth which it imitates, and which was as congenial to those days as it is
uncongenial to ours. It is all the difference between the Mass ceremonial in a Ritualist church
and in a Catholic church--the historical sense is violated in one case and satisfied in the other.

What is once really dead can never revive in the same form--at best we get a cast from the
dead face. No doubt the old music and the old symbolism always will have a beauty of antiquity
that can never belong to the new; but it was not this beauty--the beauty of death, of autumn
leaves, that made them once popular, but the beauty of fresh green life and flexibility. The
effort to make antiquity popular is almost a contradiction in terms. What we may hope for at
most is an improvement in the æsthetic tastes of the Catholic public which comes from freer
and healthier surroundings, from saner ideas and wider opportunities of education and liberal
culture. When they begin to speak a richer language, the Church will take that language and
find in it a fuller expression of her mind than she can in the present patois; she will be
able again to say to them in other words, as yet unknown, what she said to the middle ages
in Gregorian chaunt and Gothic cathedral. She, who in virtue of her Pentecostal gift of tongues,
speaks in sundry times and divers manners, may in due season find words as eloquent of her
heart and mind as those which she spoke to Durtal in the aisles of Chartres and in the cadences
of Solesmes.

July, 1898.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: Introduction to Sordello.]

[Footnote 2: The Cathedral. By M.T.K. Huysman. Translated by Clare Bell.]

[Footnote 3: R. P. Pacher, S.J., De Dante à Verlaine.]

XIX.

TRACTS FOR THE MILLION.

The paradoxes of one generation are the common-places of the next; what the savants of to-day
whisper in the ear, the Hyde Park orators of to-morrow will bawl from their platforms. Moreover,
it is just when its limits begin to be felt by the critical, when its pretended all-sufficingness
can no longer be maintained, that a theory or hypothesis begins to be popular with the uncritical
and to work its irrevocable ill-effects on the general mind. In this, as in many other matters,
the lower orders adopt the abandoned fashions of their betters, though with less of the well-bred
taste which sometimes in the latter makes even absurdity graceful. In this way it has come
to pass that at the very moment in which a reaction against the irreligious or anti-religious
philosophy of a couple of generations ago is making itself felt in the study, the spreading
pestilence of negation and unbelief has gained and continues to gain possession of the street.
Some fifty years ago religion and even Christianity, seemed to the sanguine eyes of Catholics
so firmly rooted in England that the recovery of the country to their faith depended almost
entirely on the settlement of the Anglo-Roman controversy; to which controversy they accordingly
devoted, and, in virtue of the still unexhausted impetus of that effort, do still devote their
energies, almost exclusively. But together with a dawning consciousness that times and conditions
have considerably changed, there is growing up in certain quarters a feeling that we too shall
have to make some modifications in order to adapt ourselves to the altered circumstances. It
is becoming increasingly evident that even could the said Anglo-Roman controversy be settled
by some argument so irresistibly evident as to leave no locus standi to the opponents of the
Petrine claims, yet the number of those Anglicans who admit the historical, critical, philosophical,
and theological assumptions upon which the controversy is based and which are presumed as common
ground, is so small and dwindling that, were they all gained to the Church, we should be still
a "feeble folk" in the face of that tidal wave of unbelief whose gathering force bids fair
to sweep everything before it. Also the lingering impression left from "Tractarian" days as
to the intellectual pre-eminence of the Catholicizing party in the Anglican Church, which pre-eminence
might make amends for their numerical insignificance, is gradually giving way to the recognition
of the sobering fact that at present that party in no exclusive sense represents the cultivated
intellect of the country. It is no disrespect to that party to say that while scholarship and
intelligence are therein well represented by scattered individuals, yet it is cumbered, like
most religious movements after they have streamed some distance from their source, with a majority
of those whose adhesion has little or no pretence to an intellectual basis; and whose occasional
accession to the Catholic Church is almost entirely their own gain.

To give the last decisive push to those who are already toppling over the border-line that
divides England from Rome, to reap and gather-in the harvest already ripe for the sickle, is
a useful, a necessary, and a charitable work; one that calls for a certain kind of patient
skill not to be underestimated; but there is a wider and perhaps more fruitful field whose
soil is as yet scarcely broken. It may even be asserted with only seeming paradox that the
best religious intelligence of the country is to be found in the camp of negation rather than
in that of affirmation; among Broad Churchmen, Nonconformists, Unitarians, and Positivists,
rather than among those who seek rest in the unstable position of a modified Catholicism. The
very instability and difficulty of that position elicits much ingenuity from its theological
defenders, though it also divides their counsels not a little; nor do we quarrel with them
for affirming instead of denying, but for not affirming enough. But this attempt at compromise,
this midway abortion of the natural growth of an idea, even were it justifiable as sometimes
happens when legitimate issues are obscured through failure of evidence, repels the great multitude
of religious thinkers who are not otherwise sufficiently drawn towards Catholicism to care
to examine these claims. To say that there is no logical alternative between Rome and Agnosticism
is a sufficiently shallow though popular sophism. At most it means that from certain given
premisses one or other of those conclusions must follow syllogistically--a statement that would
be more interesting were the said premisses indisputable and admitted by all the world. Still
it may be allowed that a criticism of these premisses, which is a third alternative, opens
up to religious thought a number of roads, all of which lead away from, rather than towards
the extreme Anglican position, and hence that the more searching religious intelligence of
the country is as adverse to that position--and for the same reasons--as it is to our own.
And by the "religious intelligence" I mean all that intelligence that is interested in the
religious problem; be that interest hostile or friendly; be it, in its issue, negative or constructive.
For it must not be forgotten that the enemies of a truth are as interested in it as its friends;
or that the friendliest interest, the strongest "wish to believe," may at times issue in reluctant
negation. So far then as the great mass of religious intelligence in this country is not "Anglo-Catholic"
in its sympathies; and so far as it is chiefly on the "Anglo-Catholic" section that we make
any perceptible impression, the conversion of England, for what depends on our own efforts,
does not seem to be as imminent a contingency as it would appear to be in the eyes of those
foreign critics for whom Lord Halifax is the type of every English Churchman and the English
Church co-extensive with the nation--save for a small irreclaimable residue of Liberals and
Freemasons.

Those who, influenced by such considerations, would have us extend our efforts from the narrowing
circle of Anglo-Catholicism to the ever-widening circle of doubt and negation, are not always
clear about the practically important distinction to be drawn between the active leaders of
doubt, and those who are passively led; the more or less independent few, and the more or less
dependent many; between the man of the study and the man of the street--a distinction analogous
to that between the Ecclesia docens and Ecclesia discens, and which permeates every well-established
school of belief, whether historical, ethical, political, or religious.

Dealing first with the latter, that is, with those who are led; we are becoming more explicitly
conscious of the fact that in all departments of knowledge and opinion the beliefs of the many
are not determined by reasoning from premisses, but by the authority of reputed specialists
in the particular matter, or else by the force of the general consent of those with whom they
dwell. There may be other non-rational causes of belief, but these are the principal and more
universal. And when we say they are non-rational causes, we do not mean that they are non-reasonable
or unreasonable. They provide such a generally trustworthy, though occasionally fallible, method
of getting at truth, as is sufficient and possible for the practical needs of life--social,
moral, and religious. There is an inborn instinct to think as the crowd does and to be swayed
by the confident voice of authority. If at times it fail of its end, as do other instincts,
yet it is so trustworthy in the main that to resist it in ordinary conditions is always imprudent.
That our eyes sometimes deceive us would not justify us in always distrusting their evidence.
If a child is deceived through instinctively trusting the word of its parents, the blame of
its error rests with them, not with it. And so, whatever error the many are led into by obeying
the instinct of submission to authority or to general consent, is their misfortune, not their
fault. Of course there are higher criteria by which the general consent and the opinion of
experts can be criticized and modified; but such criticism is not obligatory on the many who
have neither leisure nor competence for the task. For here, as elsewhere, a certain diversity
of gifts results in a natural division of labour in human society; those who have, giving to
those who have not; some ministering spiritual, others temporal benefits to their neighbours.
Not that a man can save another's soul for him any more than he can eat his dinner for him,
but he can minister to him better food or worse.

The Mussulman child, then, may be bound, during his intellectual minority, to accept the religious
teaching of its parents, just as is the Christian child. That one, in obeying this natural
but fallible rule, is led into error, the other into, truth, only verifies the principle that
right faith is a gift of God,--a grace, a bit of good fortune. None of those who are not professedly
teachers of religion and experts, can be morally bound to a criticism above their competence,
or to more than an obedience to those ordinary causes of assent to whose influence they are
subjected by their circumstances. The ideal of a Catholic religion is to provide, by means
of a divinely guided body of authorities and experts, an universal, international, inter-racial
consensus regarding truths that are as obscure as they are vital to individual and social happiness;
and thus to afford a means of sure and easy guidance to those uncritical multitudes whose necessary
preoccupations forbid their engaging in theology and controversy. This ideal was sufficiently
realized for practical purposes in the "ages of faith," when the whole public opinion of Europe,
then believed to be coterminous with civilization, was Catholic; when dissent needed as much
independence of character, as in so many places, profession does now. And surely it is a narrow-hearted
criticism to prefer the primitive conditions in which none but those strong enough to face
persecution could reap the benefits of Christianity. The weak and dependent are ever the majority,
and if Christianity had been intended to pass them by or sift them out, "its province were
not large," nor could it claim to be the religion of humanity. The Christian leaven was never
meant to be kept apart, but to be hidden and lost in that unleavened mass which it seeks slowly
to transform into its own nature. The majority, in respect to religion and civilization, are
like unwilling school-boys who need to be coerced for their own benefit, to be kept to their
work till they learn (if they ever do) to like it, and to need no more coercion. The support
that Catholic surroundings give to numbers, who else were too weak to stand alone, cannot be
overvalued, although it may weaken a few who else had exerted themselves more strenuously,
or may foster hypocrisy in secret unbelievers who would like to, but dare not withstand public
opinion.

Now it is the gradual decay of this support--of this non-rational yet most reasonable cause
of belief, that is rendering the religious condition of the man in the street so increasingly
unsatisfactory. Not only is there no longer an agreement of experts, and a consequent consensus
of nations, touching the broad and fundamental truths of Christianity, but what is far more
to the point, the knowledge of this Babylonian confusion has become a commonplace with the
multitudes. No doubt there are yet some shaded patches where the dew still struggles with the
desiccating sun--old-world sanctuaries of Catholicism whose dwellers hardly realize the existence
of unbelief or heresy, or who give at best a lazy, notional assent to the fact. But there are
few regions in so-called Christendom where the least educated are not now quite aware that
Christianity is but one of many religions in a much larger world than their forefathers were
aware of; that the intellect of modern, unlike that of mediæval Europe, is largely hostile
to its claims; that its defenders are infinitely at variance with one another; that there is
no longer any social disgrace connected with a non-profession of Christianity; in a word, that
the public opinion of the modern world has ceased to be Christian, and that the once all-dominating
religion which blocked out the serious consideration of any other claimant, bids fair to be
speedily reduced to its primitive helplessness and insignificance. The disintegrating effect
of such knowledge on the faith of the masses must be, and manifestly is, simply enormous. Not
that there is any rival consensus and authority to take the place of dethroned Catholicism.
Even scepticism is too little organized and embodied, too chaotic in its infinite variety of
contradictory positions, to create an influential consensus of any positive kind against faith.
Its effect, as far as the unthinking masses are concerned, is simply to destroy the chief extrinsic
support of their faith and to throw them back on the less regular, less reliable causes of
belief. If in addition it teaches them a few catchwords of free-thought, a few smart blasphemies
and syllogistic impertinences, this is of less consequence than at first sight appears, since
these are attempted after-justifications, and no real causes of their unbelief. For they love
the parade of formal reason, as they love big words or technical terms, or a smattering of
French or Latin, with all the delight of a child in the mysterious and unfamiliar; but their
pretence to be ruled by it is mere affectation, and the tenacity with which they cling to their
arguments is rather the tenacity of blind faith in a dogma, than of clear insight into principles.

And this brings us to the problem which gave birth to the present essay.

The growing infection of the uneducated or slightly educated masses of the Catholic laity with
the virus of prevalent unbelief is arousing the attention of a few of our clergy to the need
of coping with what is to them a new kind of difficulty. Amongst other kindred suggestions,
is that of providing tracts for the million dealing not as heretofore with the Protestant,
but with the infidel controversy. While the danger was more limited and remote it was felt
that, more harm than good would come of giving prominence in the popular mind to the fact and
existence of so much unbelief; that in many minds doubts unfelt before would be awakened; that
difficulties lay on the surface and were the progeny of shallow-mindedness, whereas the solutions
lay deeper down than the vulgar mind could reasonably be expected to go; that on the whole
it was better that the few should suffer, than that the many should be disturbed. The docile
and obedient could be kept away from contagion, or if infected, could be easily cured by an
act of blind confidence in the Church; while the disobedient would go their own way in any
case. Hence the idea of entering into controversy with those incompetent to deal with such
matters was wisely set aside. But now that the prevalence and growth of unbelief is as evident
as the sun at noon--now that it is no longer only the recalcitrant and irreligious, but even
the religious and docile-minded who are disturbed by the fact, it seems to some that, a policy
of silence and inactivity may be far more fruitful in evil than in good, that reverent reserve
must be laid aside and the pearls of truth cast into the trough of popular controversy.

But to this course an almost insuperable objection presents itself at first seeming. Seeing
that, the true cause of doubt and unbelief in the uncritical, is to be sought for proximately
in the decay of a popular consensus in favour of belief, and ultimately in the disagreements
and negations of those who lead and form public opinion, and in no wise in the reasons which
they allege when they attempt a criticism that is beyond them; what will it profit to deal
with the apparent cause if we cannot strike at the real cause? In practical matters, the reasons
men give for their conduct, to themselves as well as to others, are often untrue, never exhaustive.
Hence to refute their reasons will not alter their intentions. To dispel the sophisms assigned
by the uneducated as the basis of their unbelief, is not really to strike at the root of the
matter at all. Besides which, the work is endless; for if they are released from one snare
they will be as easily re-entangled in the next; and indeed what can such controversy do but
foster in them the false notion that, belief in possession may be dispossessed by every passing
difficulty, and that their faith is to be dependent on an intellectual completeness of which
they are for ever incapable. Indeed the unavoidable amount of controversy of all kinds, dinned
into the ears of the faithful in a country like this, favours a fallacy of intellectualism
very prejudicial to the repose of a living faith founded on concrete reasons, more or less
experimental.

As far as the many are concerned, much the same difficulty attends the preservation of their
faith in these days, as attended its creation in the beginnings of Christianity, before the
little flock had grown into a kingdom, when the intellect and power of the world was arrayed
against it, when it had neither the force of a world-wide consensus nor the voice of public
authority in its favour. It is an ignorant assumption on his part that it is the feelings of "respect,
duty, and gratitude" that make a Bushman provide his bride's father with game for a couple of winters.
Such feelings are unknown to the Bushman's soul. Further, when
the conditions and helps needed by the Church in her infancy, gave way to those belonging to
her established strength, it was by her ascendency over the strong, the wealthy, and the learned,
that she secured for the crowd,--for the weak and the poor and the ignorant,--the most necessary
support of a Christianized, international public opinion, and thereby extended the benefit
of her educative influence to those millions whom disinclination or weakness would otherwise
have deterred from the profession and practice of the faith.

If the Church of to-day is to retain her hold of the crowd in modernized or modernizing countries,
it must either be by renewing her ascendency over those who form and modify public opinion,
who even in the purest democracy are ever the few and not the many; or else by a reversion
to the methods of primitive times, by some palpable argument that speaks as clearly to the
simplest as to the subtlest, if only the heart be right. An outburst of miracle-working and
prophecy is hardly to be looked for; while the argument from the tree's fruits, or from the
moral miracle, is at present weakened by the extent to which non-Christians put in practice
the morality they have learnt from Christ. Other non-rational causes of belief draw individuals,
but they do not draw crowds.

If we cannot see very clearly what is to supply for the support once given to the faith of
the millions by public opinion, still their incapacity for dealing with the question on rational
grounds will not justify us altogether in silence. For in the first place it is an incapacity
of which they are not aware, or which at least they are very unwilling to admit. A candidate
at the hustings would run a poor chance of a hearing who, instead of seeming to appeal to the
reason of the mob should, in the truthfulness of his soul, try to convince them of their utter
incompetence to judge the simplest political point. Again, though unable to decide between
cause and cause, yet the rudest can often see that there is much to be said on both sides--though
what, he does not understand; and if this fact weakens his confidence in the right, it also
weakens it in the wrong; whereas had the right been silent, the wrong, in his judgment, would
thereby have been proved victorious. This will justify us at times in talking over the heads
of our readers and hearers, and in not sparing sonorous polysyllables, abstruse technicalities,
or even the pompous parade of syllogistic arguments with all their unsightly joints sticking
out for public admiration. Some hands may be too delicate for this coarse work; but there will
always be those to whom it is easy and congenial; and its utility is too evident to allow a
mere question of taste to stand in the way.

Moreover, it must be remembered that while many of the class referred to are glad to be free
from the pressure of a Christianized public opinion, and are only too willing to grasp at any
semblance of a reason for unbelief; others, more religiously disposed, are really troubled
by these popular, anti-Christian difficulties, the more so as they are often infected with
the fallacy, fostered by ceaseless controversy, which makes one's faith dependent on the formal
reason one can give for it.

Though this is not so, yet moral truthfulness forbids us to assent to what we, however falsely,
believe to be untrue. Hence while the virtue of faith remains untouched, its exercise with
regard to particular points may be inculpably suspended through ignorance, stupidity, misinformation,
and other causes.

In the interest of these well-disposed but easily puzzled believers of the ill-instructed and
uncritical sort, a series of anti-agnostic tracts for the million would really seem to be called
for. Yet never has the present writer felt more abjectly crushed with a sense of incompetence
than when posed by the difficulties of a "hagnostic" greengrocer, or of a dressmaker fresh
from the perusal of "Erbert" Spencer. Face to face with chaos, one knows not where to begin
the work of building up an orderly mind; nor will the self-taught genius brook a hint of possible
ignorance, or endure the discussion of dull presuppositions, without much pawing of the ground
and champing on the bit: "What I want," he says, "is a plain answer to a plain question." And
when you explain to him that for an answer he must go back very far and become a little child
again, and must unravel his mind to the very beginning like an ill-knit stocking, he looks
at once incredulous and triumphant as who should say: "There, I told you so!" Yet the same
critical incompetence that makes these simple folk quite obtuse to the true and adequate solution
of their problems (I am speaking of cases where such solutions are possible), makes them perfectly
ready to accept any sort of counter-sophistry or paralogism. A most excellent and genuine "convert"
of that class told me that he had stood out for years against the worship of the Blessed Virgin,
till one day it had occurred to him that, as a cause equals or exceeds its effect, so the Mother
must equal the Son. Another, equally genuine, professed to have been conquered by the reflection
that he had all his life been saying: "I believe in the Holy Catholic Church," and he could
not see the use of believing in it if he didn't belong to it. If their faith in Catholicism
or in any other religion depended on their logic, men of this widespread class were in a sorry
plight. Like many of their betters, these two men probably imagined the assigned reasons to
be the entire cause of their conversion, making no account of the many reasonable though non-logical
motives by which the change was really brought about. Hence to have abruptly and incautiously
corrected them, would perhaps but have been to reduce them to confusion and perplexity, and
to "destroy with one's logic those for whom Christ died."

That we do not sufficiently realize the dialectical incompetence of the uneducated is partly
to be explained by the fact that they often get bits of reasoning by rote, much as young boys
learn their Euclid; and that they frequently seem to understand principles because they apply
them in the right cases, just as we often quote a proverb appropriately without the slightest
idea of its origin or meaning beyond that it is the right thing to say in a certain connection.
As we ascend in the scale of education, there is more and more of this reasoning by rote, so
that critical incompetence is more easily concealed and may lurk unsuspected even in the pulpit
and the professorial chair, where logic alone seems paramount. The "hagnostic" greengrocer,
in all the self-confidence of his ignorance, is but the lower extreme of a class that runs
up much higher in the social scale and spreads out much wider in every direction.

But when we have realized more adequately how hopelessly incompetent the multitude must necessarily
be in the problems of specialists, we shall also see that it is only by inadequate and even
sophistical reasoning that most of their intellectual difficulties can be allayed; that the
full truth (and the half-truth is mostly a lie) would be Greek to them. If, then, Tracts for
the Million seem a necessity, they also seem an impossibility; for what self-respecting man
will sit down to weave that tissue of sophistry, special-pleading, violence, and vulgarity,
which alone will serve the practical purpose with those to whom trenchency is everything and
subtlety nothing? Even though the means involve a violation of taste rather than of morals,
yet can they be justified by the goodness of the end? Fortunately, however, the difficulty
is met by a particular application of God's universal method in the education of mankind. In
every grade of enlightenment there are found some who are sufficiently in advance of the rest
to be able to help them, and not so far in advance as practically to speak a different language.
What is a dazzling light for those just emerging from darkness, is darkness for those in a
yet stronger light. A statement may be so much less false than another, as to be relatively
true; so much less true than a third, as to be relatively false. For a mind wholly unprepared,
the full truth is often a light that blinds and darkness; whereas the tempered half-truth prepares
the way for a fuller disclosure in due time, even as the law and the prophets prepared the
way for the Gospel and Christ, or as the enigmas of faith school us to bear that light which
now no man can gaze on and live. Thus, though we may never use a lie in the interest of truth,
or bring men from error by arguments we know to be sophistical, yet we have the warrant of
Divine example, both in the natural and supernatural education of mankind, for the passive
permission of error in the interest of truth, as also of evil in the interest of good. Since
then there will ever be found those who in all good faith and sincerity can adapt themselves
to the popular need and supply each level of intelligence with the medicine most suited to
its digestion, all we ask is that a variety of standards in controversial writings be freely
recognized; that each who feels called to such efforts should put forth his very best with
a view to helping those minds which are likest his own; that none should deliberately condescend
to the use of what from his point of view would be sophistries and vulgarities, remembering
at the same time that the superiority of his own taste and judgment is more relative than absolute,
and that in the eyes of those who come after, he himself may be but a Philistine.

We conclude then that all that can be done in the way of Tracts for the Million should be done;
that seed of every kind should be scattered to the four winds, hoping that each may find some
congenial soil.

But even when all that can be done in this way to save the masses from the contagion of unbelief
has been done, we shall be as far as ever from having found a substitute for the support which
formerly was lent to their faith by a Christianized public opinion. Can we hope for anything
more than thus to retard the leakage? The answer to this would take us to the second of our
proposed considerations, namely, our attitude towards those who form and modify that public
opinion by which the masses are influenced for good or for evil. But it is an answer which
for the present must be deferred. [1]

Nov. 1900.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: The Introduction to the First Series of these essays attempts to deal with this
further question.]

XX.

AN APOSTLE OF NATURALISM.

Naturalism includes various schools which agree in the first principle that nothing is true
but what can be justified by those axiomatic truths which every-day experience forces upon
our acceptance, not indeed as self-evident, but as inevitable, unless we are to be incapacitated
for practical life. It is essentially the philosophy of the unphilosophical, that is, of those
who believe what they are accustomed to believe, and because they are so accustomed; who are
incapable of distinguishing between the subjective necessity imposed by habits and the objective
necessity founded in the nature of things. It is no new philosophy, but as old as the first
dawn of philosophic thought, for it is the form towards which the materialistic mind naturally
gravitates. Given a population sufficiently educated to philosophize in any fashion, and of
necessity the bent of the majority will be in the direction of some form of Naturalism. Hence
we find that the "Agnosticism" of Professor Huxley is eminently suited to the capacity and
taste of the semi-educated majorities in our large centres of civilization. Still it must not
be supposed that the majority really philosophizes at all even to this extent. The pressure
of life renders it morally impossible. But they like to think that they do so. The whole temper
of mind, begotten and matured by the rationalistic school, is self-sufficient: every man his
own prophet, priest, and king; every man his own philosopher. Hence, he who poses as a teacher
of the people will not be tolerated. The theorist must come forward with an affectation of
modesty, as into the presence of competent critics; he must only expose his wares, win for
himself a hearing, and then humbly wait for the placet of the sovereign people. But plainly
this is merely a conventional homage to a theory that no serious mind really believes in. We
know well enough, that the opinions and beliefs of the multitude are formed almost entirely
by tradition, imitation, interest, by in fact any influence rather than that of pure reason.
Taught they are, and taught they must be, however they repudiate it. But the most successful
teachers and leaders are those who contrive to wound their sense of intellectual self-sufficiency
least, and to offer them the strong food of dogmatic assertion sugared over and sparkling with
the show of wit and reason.

Philosophy for the million may be studied profitably in one of its popular exponents whose
works have gained wide currency among the class referred to. Mr. S. Laing is a very fair type
of the average mind-leader, owing his great success to his singular appreciation of the kind
of treatment needed to secure a favourable hearing. We do not pretend to review Mr. Laing's
writings for their own sake, but simply as good specimens of a class which is historically
rather than philosophically interesting.

We have before us three of his most popular books: Modern Science and Modern Thought (nineteenth
thousand), Problems of the Future (thirteenth thousand), Human Origins (twelfth thousand),
to which we shall refer as M.S., P.F., H.O., in this essay; taking the responsibility of all
italics on ourselves, unless otherwise notified.

Mr. Laing is not regretfully forced into materialism by some mental confusion or obscurity,
but he revels in it, and invites all to taste and see how gracious a philosophy it is. There
is an ill-concealed levity and coarseness in his handling of religious subjects which breaks,

  At seasons, through the gilded pale,

and which warns us from casting reasons before those who would but trample them under foot.
It is rather for the sake of those who read such literature, imprudently perhaps, but with
no sympathy, and yet find their imagination perplexed and puzzled with a swarm of minute sophistries
and difficulties, collectively bewildering, though contemptible singly, that we think it well
to form some estimate of the philosophical value of such works.

Nothing in our study of Mr. Laing surprised us more than to discover [1] that he had lived
for more than the Scriptural span of three-score and ten years, a life of varied fortunes and
many experiences. It seems to us incredible that any man of even average thoughtfulness could,
after so many years, find life without God, without immortality, without definite meaning or
assignable goal, "worth living," and that "to be born in a civilized country in the nineteenth
century is a boon for which a man can never be sufficiently thankful." [2] [Thankful to whom?
one might ask parenthetically.] In other words, he is a bland optimist, and has nothing but
vials of contempt to pour upon the pessimists, from Ecclesiastes down to Carlyle. Especially to
the School Committee would we convey our grateful thanks for the interest you have manifested
in the Class; and for the kindness and consideration with which you have met all our wants, doing
all in your power to facilitate our studies.

We trust that our success in the future may be such as will reflect
credit on this Society.

To our teachers, Mr. Mason and Mr. Spaulding, you who have so well
performed your part, we hardly know how to thank you for your patient
and persistent efforts to fit us for the calling we have chosen.

Taking up this work after the fatigue of the day, with body and brain already wearied, your task, as
well as ours, has been a difficult one.

But you have ever been ready with words of encouragement to help us
over the hard places.

Faithful, conscientious, you have gained our respect and esteem, and we feel that in parting to-night
we bid good-by not only to teachers, but to earnest, helpful friends. And yet, not a final good-by.
For, are we not looking forward to many pleasant meetings of the
"Phonographic Alumnæ Association," when you have promised to meet
with us, and by your presence aid and encourage us to continue our
practice and by united efforts help one another?

For we believe the old maxim is true in this connection as in many others,--"In
union is strength."

Fellow classmates: For seven months we have met and studied
together; and now that the term is over it is with mingled feelings of
joy and regret that we meet to-night for the last time in this place.

Joy
that our task is done; that the time to which we have looked forward
has come; for to many it has been a severe strain to continue to
the end.

We alone know the difficulties we have had to contend with; the pleasures
given up and the sacrifices made to be present at the class.

But who shall say it has not fully repaid us? Is not this knowledge we have
gained all the more precious because so dearly obtained?

Some have already begun to reap the reward, others are eagerly looking
forward to the time when they shall be able to put this knowledge into
actual practice.

With what bright anticipations we took up the study of Phonography last
October!

But what a mountain loomed up before us in the shape of the alphabet.

Then the strokes and curves,
and circles, how we puzzled our brains over which was which, and how
proud we were when we began to form words and to air our knowledge
of these mystic signs; only to be met with such questions as these,
"How many words can you write a minute?" or, "Do you think you could
take down a sermon?"

"Let me dictate this piece from the newspaper to you," all of
which made us feel how limited was our knowledge and how much we
had still to learn.

Then the examinations; how they hung over our heads like dark clouds
threatening us at every turn!

But that is all past and gone, and
time, with its never ebbing tide, has brought us to this parting hour.

What
our future will be depends upon our own individual efforts. At present we are concerned directly with pointing out how Mr. Laing's
optimism at once marks him off from those men who, whether believing or misbelieving or unbelieving,
have thought deeply and felt deeply, who have seen clearly that materialism leaves nothing
for man's soul but the husks of swine; who have therefore boldly faced the inevitable alternative
between spiritualistic philosophy and hope, and materialism with its pessimistic corollary.
That a man may be a materialist or atheist and enjoy life thoroughly, who does not know? but
then it is just at the expense of his manhood, because he lives without thought, reflection,
or aspiration, i.e., materialistically. Mr. Laing no doubt, as he confesses, has lived pleasantly
enough. He has found in what he calls science an endless source of diversion, he betrays himself
everywhere as a man of intense intellectual curiosity in every direction, and yet withal so
little concerned with the roots of things, so easily satisfied with a little plausible coherence
in a theory, as not to have found truth an apparently stern or exacting mistress, not to have
felt the anguish of any deep mental conflict. His intellectual labours have been pleasurable
because easy, and, in his own eyes, eminently fruitful and satisfactory. He has adopted an
established cause, thrown himself into it heart and soul; others indeed had gone before him
and laboured, and he has entered into their labours. Indeed, he is frank in disclaiming all
originality of discovery or theory; [10] he has not risked the disappointment and anxiety of
improving on the Evolution Gospel, but he has collected and sorted and arranged and published
the evidence obtained by others. This has always furnished him with an interest in life; [11]
but whether it be a rational interest or not depends entirely on the usefulness or hurtfulness
of his work. He admits, however, that though life for him has been worth living, "some may
find it otherwise from no fault of their own, more by their own fate." [12] But all can lead
fairly happy lives by following his large-type platitudinous maxim, "Fear nothing, make the
best of everything." [13] In other words, the large majority, who are not and never can be
so easily and pleasantly circumstanced as Mr. Laing, are told calmly to make the best of it
and to rejoice in the thought that their misery is a necessary factor in the evolution of their
happier posterity. This is the new gospel: Pauperes evangelizantur--"Good news for the poor."
[14] "Progress and not happiness" is the end we are told to make for, over and over again;
but, progress towards what, is never explained, nor is any basis for this duty assigned. Indeed,
duty means nothing for Mr. Laing but an inherited instinct, which if we choose to disobey or
if we happen not to possess, who shall blame us or talk to us of "oughts"?

And now to consider more closely the grounds of Mr. Laing's very cheerful view of a world in
which, for all we know, there is no soul, no God, and certainly no faith. Since of the two
former we know and can know nothing, we must build our happiness, our morality, our "religion,"
on a basis whereof they form no part. He believes that morality will be able to hold its own
distinct, not only from all belief in revelation, in a personal God, and in a spiritual soul,
but in spite of a philosophy which by tracing the origin of moral judgments to mere physical
laws of hereditary transmission of experienced utilities, robs them of all authority other
than prudential, and convicts them of being illusory so far as they seem to be of higher than
human origin.

Herein, as usual, he treads in the steps of Professor Huxley, "the greatest living master of
English prose" (though why his mastery of prose should add to his weight as a philosopher,
we fail to see). "Such ideas evidently come from education, and are not the results either
of inherited instinct [15] or of supernatural gift.... Given a being with man's brain, man's
hands, and erect stature, it is easy to see how ... rules of conduct ... must have been formed
and fixed by successive generations, according to the Darwinian laws." [16]

He tells us: "We may read the Athanasian Creed less, but we practise Christian charity more
in the present than in any former age." [17] "Faith has diminished, charity increased." [18]

Of moral principles, he says: "Why do we say that ... they carry conviction with them and prove
themselves?... Still, there they are, and being what they are ... it requires no train of reasoning
or laboured reflection to make us feel that 'right is right,' and that it is better for ourselves
and others to act on such precepts ... rather than to reverse these rules and obey the selfish
promptings of animal nature." [19] "It is clearly our highest wisdom to follow right, not from
selfish calculation, ... but because 'right is right.' ... For practical purposes it is comparatively
unimportant how this standard got there ... as an absolute imperative rule." [20] As to the
apprehended ill effect of agnosticism on morals, he says: "The foundations of morals [21] are
fortunately built on solid rock and not on shifting sand. It may truly be said in a great many
cases that, as individuals and nations become more sceptical, they become more moral." [22]
"If there is one thing more certain than another in the history of evolution, it is that morals
have been evolved by the same laws as regulate the development of species." [23]

These citations embody Mr. Laing's opinions on this point, and show very clearly his utter
incapacity for elementary philosophic thought. Here, as elsewhere, as soon as he leaves the
bare record of facts and embarks in any kind of speculation, he shows himself helpless; however,
he tries to fortify his own courage and that of his readers, with "it is clear," "it is evident,"
"it is certain."

To say that "right is right," sounds very oracular; but it either means that "right" is an
ultimate spring of action, inexplicable on evolutionist principles, or that right is the will
of the strongest, or an illusory inherited foreboding of pain, or a calculation of future pleasure
and pain, or something which, in no sense, is a true account of what men do mean by right.
To say that moral principles "carry conviction with them, and prove themselves" (i.e., are
self-evident), unless, as we suspect, it is mere verbiage conveying nothing particular to Mr.
Laing's brain, is to deny that right has reference to the consequences of action as bearing
on human progress and evolution, which is to deny the very theory he wishes to uphold. No intuitionist
could have spoken more strongly. Then we are assured that we "feel" rightness, or that "right
is right"--apparently as a simple irresoluble quality of certain actions--and with same breath,
that "it is better for ourselves and others to act on these rules," where he jumps off to utilitarianism
again; and then we are forbidden to "obey the selfish impulses of our animal nature"--a strange
prohibition for one who sees in us nothing but animal nature, who denies us any free power
to withstand its impulses. Then it is "clearly our highest wisdom to follow right"--an appeal
to prudential motives--"not from any selfish calculations"--a repudiation of prudential motives--"but
because 'right is right'"--an appeal to a blind unreasoning instinct, and a prohibition to
question its authority. We are told that for practical purposes it matters little whence this
absolute imperative rule originates. Was there ever a more unpractical and short-sighted assertion!
Convince men that the dictates of conscience are those of fear or selfishness, that they are
all mere animal instincts, that they are anything less than divine, and who will care for Mr.
Laing's appeal to blind faith in the "rightness of right"?

As long as Christian tradition lives on, as it will for years among the masses, the effects
of materialist ethics will not be felt; but as these new theories filter down from the few
to the many, they will inevitably produce their logical consequences in practical matters.
No one with open eyes can fail to see how the leaven is spreading already. Still the majority
act and speak to a great extent under the influence of the old belief, which they have repudiated,
in the freedom of man's will and the Divine origin of right. It is quite plain that Mr. Laing
has either never had patience to think the matter out, or has found it beyond his compass.
Having thus established morality on a foundation independent of religion and of everything
else, making "right" rest on "right," he assumes the prophetic robe, and on the strength of
his seventy years of experience and philosophy poses as a Cato Major for the edification of
the semi-scientific millions of young persons to whom he addresses his volumes. We have a whole
chapter on Practical Life, [24] on self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control, full of portentous
platitudes and ancient saws; St. Paul's doctrine of charity, and all that is best in the teaching
of the Sermon on the Mount, is liberated from its degrading association with the belief in
a God who rewards and punishes.[25] We are "to act strenuously in that direction which, after
conscientious inquiry, seems the best, ... and trust to what religious men call Providence,
and scientific men Evolution, for the result," and all this simply on the bold assertion of
this sage whose sole aim is "to leave the world a little better rather than a little worse
for my individual unit of existence." [26]

And here we may inquire parenthetically as to the motive which urges Mr.
Laing to throw himself into the labours of the apostolate and to become
such an active propagandist of agnosticism. We are told[27] that the
enlightened should be "liberal and tolerant towards traditional opinions
and traditional practices, and trust with cheerful faith to evolution to
bring about gradually changes of form," &c.; that the influence of the
clergy is "on the whole exerted for good," and it is frankly
acknowledged that Christianity has been a potent factor in the evolution
of modern civilization. It has, however, nearly run its course, and the
old order must give place to the new, i.e., to agnosticism. But even
allowing, what we dare say Mr. Laing would not ask, that the speculative
side of the new religion is fully defined and worked out, and ready to
displace the old dogmatic creeds, yet its practical aspect is so vague
that he writes: "I think the time is come when the intellectual victory
of agnosticism is so far assured, that it behoves thinking men to begin
to consider what practical results are likely to follow from it." [28]
In the face of this confession we find Mr. Laing industriously
addressing himself to "those who lack time and opportunity for
studying," [29] to the "minds of my younger readers, and of the working
classes who are striving after culture," [30] "to what may be called the
semi-scientific readers, ... who have already acquired some elementary
ideas about science," "to the millions;" [31] and endeavouring by all
means in his power to destroy the last vestige of their faith in that
religion which alone provides for them a definite code of morality
strengthened by apparent sanctions of the highest order, and venerable
at least by its antiquity and universality. [32] And while he is thus
busily pulling down the old scaffolding, he is calmly beginning to
consider the practical results. This is his method of "leaving the world
a little better than he found it." He professes to understand and
appreciate "In Memoriam."
  Her faith through form is pure as thine,
    Her hands are quicker unto good;
    O sacred be the flesh and blood,
  To which she links a truth divine.

On his own principles he is convicted of being a lover of mischief. No, one is sorely tempted
to think that these men are well aware that the moral sense which sound philosophy and Christian
faith have developed, is still strong in the minds and deeper conscience of the English-speaking
races, and that were they to present materialism in all its loathsome nudity to the public
gaze, they would be hissed off the stage. And so they dress it up in the clothes of the old
religion just for the present, with many a quiet wink between themselves at the expense of
the "semi-scientific" reader.

We have already adverted to Mr. Laing's utter incapacity for anything like philosophy, except
so far as that term can be applied to a power of raking together, selecting, and piling up
into "a popular shape" the scraps of information which favour the view whose correctness he
was convinced of ere he began. A few further remarks may justify this somewhat severe estimate.
After stating that in the solution of life and soul problems, science stops short at germs
and nucleated cells, he proceeds with the usual tirade against metaphysics: "Take Descartes'
fundamental axiom: Cogito ergo sum.... Is it really an axiom?... If the fact that I am conscious
of thinking proves the fact that I exist, is the converse true that whatever does not think
does not exist?... Does a child only begin to exist when it begins to think? If Cogito ergo
sum is an institution to which we can trust, why is not Non cogito ergo non sum?" [34] Here
is a man posing before the gaping millions as a philosopher and a severe logician, who thinks
that the proposition, "every cow is a quadruped," is disproved by the evident falsehood of,
"what is not a cow is not a quadruped," which he calls "the converse." He sums up magnificently
by saying: "These are questions to which no metaphysical system that I have ever seen, can
return the semblance of an answer;" giving the impression of a life devoted to a deep and exhaustive
study of all schools of philosophy. Mr. Laing here surely is addressing his "younger readers."

He tells us elsewhere [35] that, "when analyzed by science, spiritualism leads straight to
materialism;" free-will "can be annihilated by the simple mechanical expedient of looking at
a black wafer stuck on a white wall;" that if "Smith falls into a trance and believes himself
to be Jones, he really is Jones, and Smith has become a stranger to him while the trance lasts....
I often ask myself the question, If he died during one of these trances, which would he be,
Smith or Jones? and I confess it takes some one wiser than I am to answer it." Without pretending
to be wiser than Mr. Laing, we hope it will not be too presumptuous for us to suggest that
if Smith dies in a trance believing himself to be Jones, he is under a delusion, and that he
really is Smith. Else it would be very awkward for poor Jones, who in nowise believes himself
to be Smith. Mr. Laing would have to break it gently to Jones, that, "in fact, my dear sir,
Smith borrowed your personality, and unfortunately died before returning it; and as to whether
you are yourself or Smith, as to whether you are alive or dead, 'I confess it takes some one
wiser than I am to decide.'" That a man's own name, own surroundings, own antecedents, are
all objects of his thought, and distinguished from the self, ego, or subject which contemplates
them, has never suggested itself to Mr. Laing. That though Smith may mistake every one of these,
yet the term "I" necessarily and invariably means the same for him, the one central, constant
unity to which every non-ego is opposed. And this from a man who elsewhere claims an easy familiarity
with Kant. "Again what can be said of love and hate if under given circumstances they can be
transformed into one another by a magnet?" What indeed? And how is it that the gold-fish make
no difference in the weight of the globe of water?

His conclusion to these inquiries is: "When Shakespeare said, 'We are such stuff as dreams
are made of,' he enumerates what has become a scientific fact. The 'stuff' is in all cases
the same--vibratory motions of nerve particles." [36] Thus knowledge, self-consciousness, free-choice,
is as much a function of matter as fermentation, or crystallisation--a mode of motion, not
dissimilar from heat, perhaps transformable therewith. 

THE FUTURE

We still hear people talk about the relations of the sexes,
the family and marriage, as though these human and social relationships
had always been and were bound to remain what they are today, whereas
they have undergone far-reaching modifications within the period of
our own lives.

Every change taking place in industry is always bound to send out infinite
ramifications through every branch of our social institutions. The
increasing specialization in industry, drawing more and more of the
household arts out of the home and into factory, mill and shops, and
the following of the jobs by women into the mills and factories, thus
freeing woman from economic dependence on man, has already colored
every branch of our social fabric.

Having become more independent, woman has grown more exacting. She
demands a better bargain when she marries, or, refusing to barter,
she chooses a mate.

In the early days of America, when the home was the economic unit,
and almost all industry was performed in the home and on the farm, women
were economically dependent on men. Then woman's place was undoubtedly
in the home, since there was no place else where she could earn a
living.

Modern industry has changed all that.

Women compete for jobs with men today, force down wages to a lower level and demand more from men
before they will marry. And yet we see $25.00 a week stenographers giving
up their positions to barter themselves, presumably for life, to
$35.00 a week clerks or salesmen, rarely because of the mating instinct,
but usually because of the personal triumph this means in the competition
between members of the sex, and the social approbation which marriage
brings.

The only certain thing the wisest man may say about our social institutions
is that they have changed in the past and that they will continue
to change, or be modified, or to pass away, in the future.

In one
short year, the war has altered some of our old institutions beyond
recall.

We believe that a continuation of the war for a considerable period will
mean economic and social changes that will rock the world. And out
of the storm and stress of things we doubt very much whether any of
our existing social institutions will emerge intact--if it emerge at
all

.
 He never for a moment questions his perfect understanding of it, and
of all it has got to say for itself. Brought up apparently among Protestants, who hold to a
verbal inspiration [40] and literal interpretation of the Scriptures, who have no traditional
or authoritative interpretation of it, he concludes at once that his own crude, boyish conception
of Christianity is the genuine one, and that every deviation therefrom is a "climbing down,"
or a minimizing. He has no suspicion that the wider views of interpretation are as old as Christianity
itself, and have always co-existed with the narrower.

He regards the Christian idea of God as essentially anthropomorphic. Indeed, whether in good
faith or for the sake of effect, he brings forward the old difficulties which have been answered
ad nauseam with an air of freshness, as though unearthed for the first time, and therefore
as setting religion in new and unheard-of straits. So, at all events, it will seem to the millions
of his young readers and to the working classes.

Let us follow him in some of his destructive criticism, or rather denunciations, in order to
observe his mode of procedure. "The discoveries of science ... make it impossible for sincere
men to retain the faith," &c., [41] therefore all who differ from Mr. Laing are insincere.
"It is absolutely certain that portions of the Bible are not true; and those, important portions."
[42] This is based on two premisses which are therefore absolutely certain, (i) Mr. Laing's
conclusions about the antiquity of man--of which more anon; (43) his baldly literal interpretation
of the Bible as delivered to him in his early "infancy. On p. 253, we have the ancient difficulty
from the New Testament prophecy of the proximate end of the world, without the faintest indication
that it was felt 1800 years ago, and has been dealt with over and over again. Papias [44] is
lionized [45] in order to upset the antiquity of the four Gospels--which upsetting, however,
depends on a dogmatic interpretation of an ambiguous phrase, and the absence of positive testimony.
Here again there is no evidence that Mr. Laing has read any elementary text-book on the authenticity
of the Gospels. He is "perfectly clear" as to the fourth Gospel being a forgery; again for
reasons which he alone has discovered. [46] Paul is the first inventor of Christian dogma,
without any doubt or hesitation. But the undoubted results of modern science ... shatter to
pieces the whole fabric. It is as certain as that 2 + 2 = 4 that the world was not created
in the manner described in Genesis."

As regards harmonistic difficulties of the Old and New Testaments, he assumes the same confident
tone of bold assertion without feeling any obligation to notice the solutions that have been
suggested. It makes for his purpose to represent the orthodox as suddenly struck dumb and confounded
by these amazing discoveries of his. He sees discrepancies everywhere in the Gospel narrative,
e.g.: [47]

  "Judas' death is differently described." "Herod is introduced by
  Luke and not mentioned by the others." "Jesus carried His own Cross in
  one account, while Simon of Cyrene bore it in another. Jesus gave no
  answer to Pilate, says Matthew; He explains that His Kingdom was not
  of the world, says John. Mary His Mother sat (sic) at the foot of
  the Cross, according to St. John; it was not His Mother, but Mary the
  mother of Salome (sic) 'who beheld Him from afar,' according to Mark
  and Matthew. There was a guard set to watch the tomb, says Matthew;
  there is no mention of one by the others."

At first we thought Mr. Laing must have meant differences and not discrepancies; but the following
paragraph forbade so lenient an interpretation. "The only other mention of Mary by St. John,
who describes her as sitting (sic) by the foot of the Cross, is apocryphal, being directly
contradicted by the very precise statement [48] in the three other Gospels, that the Mary who
was present on that occasion was a different woman, the mother of Salome." Even his youngest
readers ought to open their eyes at this. Similarly he thinks the omission of the Lord's Prayer
by St. Mark tells strongly against its authenticity. [49]

II.

We must now say something about the great facts of evolutionary philosophy which have shattered
dogmatic Christianity to pieces, and have made it impossible for any sincere man to remain
a Christian. To say that Mr. Laing is absolutely certain of the all-sufficiency of evolutionism
to explain everything that is knowable to the human mind, that he does not hint for a moment
that this philosophy is found by the "bell-wethers" of science to be every day less satisfactory
as a complete rationale of the physical cosmos; is really to understate the case for sheer
lack of words to express the intensity of his conviction. His fundamental fact is that, however
theologians may shuffle out of the first chapter of Genesis by converting days into periods,
when we come to the story of the Noachean Deluge, we are confronted with such a glaring absurdity
that we must at once allow that the Bible is full of myths. For history and science show that
man existed probably two hundred thousand years ago, at all events not less than twenty thousand;
also that five thousand B.C., a highly organized civilization existed in Egypt, whose monuments
of that date give evidence to the full development of racial and linguistic differences as
now existing among men; that this plants the common stem from which these have branched off,
in an indefinitely remote pre-historic period; that to suppose that the present races and tongues
are all derived from one man (Noe), who lived only two thousand B.C., is a monstrous impossibility;
still more so, to believe that the countless thousands of species of animals which populate
the world were collected from the four quarters of the globe, were housed and fed in the Ark,
landed on Mount Ararat, and thence spread themselves out over the world again regardless of
interjacent seas. Hence the Bible story of human origins is a mere myth; man has not fallen,
but has risen by slow evolution from some ancestor common to him and apes, at a remote period,
long sons prior even to the miocene period, which shows man to have been then as obstinately
differentiated from the apes as ever. Therefore "all did not die in Adam," and seeing this
is the foundation of the dogmatic Christianity invented by Paul, the whole thing collapses
like a house of cards. [45]

And indeed, given that the Bible means what Mr. Laing says it means, and that science has proved
what he says it has proved, that the two results are incompatible, few would care to deny.
As regards the latter condition, let us see some of his reasonings. We are told that "modern
science shows that uninterrupted historical records, confirmed by contemporary monuments, carry
history back at least one thousand years before the supposed creation of man ... and show then
no trace of a commencement, but populous cities, celebrated temples, great engineering works,
and a high state of the arts and of civilization already existing." [46] Strange to say, Mr.
Laing developes a sudden reverence for the testimony of priests at the outset of his historical
inquiries, and finds that history begins with "priestly organizations;" [47] that the royal
records are "made and preserved by special castes of priestly colleges and learned scribes,
and that they are to a great extent precise in date and accurate in fact." Of course this does
not include Christian priests, but the priests of barbarous cults of many thousand years ago,
who, as well as their royal masters, are at once credited with all the delicacy of the accurate
criticism which we boast of in these days--how vainly, God knows. We are told one moment that
Herodotus "was credulous, and not very critical in distinguishing between fact and fable,"
that his "sources of information were often not much better than vague popular traditions,
or the tales told by guides;" [48] and yet we are to lay great stress on his assertion that
the Egyptian priests told him "that during the long succession of ages of the three hundred
and forty-five high priests of Heliopolis, whose statues they showed him in the Temple of the
Sun, there had been no change in the length of human life or the course of nature." [49] A
valuable piece of evidence if Herodotus reports rightly, and if the priest was not like the
average guide, and if the statues answered to real existences, and if each of the three hundred
and forty-five high priests made a truthful assertion of the above to his successor for the
benefit of posterity.

Manetho's History is, however, the chief source of our information as to the antiquity of Egyptian
civilization. He was commissioned to compile this History by Ptolemy Philadelphus, "from the
most authentic temple records and other sources of information," [50] whose infallibility is
taken for granted. He was "eminently qualified for such a task, being," as Mr. Laing will vouch,
[51] "a learned and judicious man, and a priest of Sebbenytus, one of the oldest and most famous
temples." Let us by all means read Manetho's History; but where is it? It is "unfortunately
lost, ... but fragments of it have been preserved in the works of Josephus, Eusebius, Julius
Africanus, and Syncellus.... With the curious want of critical faculty of almost all the Christian
Fathers" [52] (so different from the learned, judicious, upright priests of the sun), "these
extracts, though professing to be quotations from the same book, contain many inconsistencies
and in several instances they have been obviously tampered with, especially by Eusebius, in
order to bring their chronology more in accordance with that of the Old Testament, ... but
there can be no doubt that his original work assigned an antiquity to Menes of over 5500 B.C."
[53] "On the whole, we have to fall back on Manetho as the only authority for anything like
precise dates and connected history."

Manetho, however, needed confirmation against the aspersions of the orthodox, who thought he
might be deficient in critical delicacy, and prone to exaggerate as even later historians had
done. Their casuistic minds also suggested that his list comprised Kings who had ruled different
provinces simultaneously. But this "effugium" was cut off by the witness of contemporary monuments
and manuscripts. "This has now been done to such an extent that it may be fairly said that
Manetho is confirmed, and it is fully established, as a fact acquired by science, that nearly
all his Kings and dynasties are proved by monuments to have existed, and that, successively." [54]

What is needed for the validity of this argument is a concurrence, which could not possibly
be fortuitous, between the clear and undoubted testimony of Manetho and of the monuments. But
first of all, what sort of probability is there left of our possessing anything approximately
like the results of Manetho: and if we had them, of their historical accuracy? Secondly, is
it at all credible that so fragmentary and fortuitous a record as survives in monuments (allowing
again their very dubious historical worth) should just happen to coincide with the surviving
fragments of our patch-work Manetho, king for king and dynasty for dynasty, as Mr. Laing would
have us believe? On the contrary, nothing would throw more suspicion on the interpretation
of these monuments than the assertion of such an improbable coincidence. What, then, is the
force of this argument from Egyptology? If the records from which Manetho compiled were historically
accurate; if he was perfectly competent to understand them; if he was scrupulously honest and
critical; if from the tampered-with fragments in the Christian Fathers we can arrive at a reliable
and accurate knowledge of his results; and if the Bible in the original text--whatever that
may be--undoubtedly asserts that man was not created till 4000 B.C., then according to certain
Egyptologists (Boeck), Menes reigned fifteen hundred years previously, and according to others
(Wilkinson), one thousand years subsequently. Similarly as to the argument from coincidence:
if, as before, we possess Manetho's genuine list intact, and if we have the clear testimony
of the monuments giving a precisely similar record, this coincidence, apart from all independent
value to be given to Manetho or to the monuments, is an effect demanding a cause, for which
the most probable is the objective truth from which both these veracious records have been
copied. But the monuments are not written in plain English, and need a key; and we must be
first assured that Manetho's list has not been used for this purpose. We are told; for example,
[55] that the name "Snefura," deciphered on a tablet found at the copper-mines of Wady Magerah,
is the name of a King of the third dynasty, who reigned about 4000 B.C. Now if there were no
doubt about the reading of this name on the tablet, and if his date and dynasty were as plainly
there recorded, and if all this tallies exactly with equally precise particulars in Manetho's
list, it would indeed be a remarkable coincidence and would imply some common source, whether
record or fact. But if having credited Manetho with the record of such a name and date, one
tortures a hieroglyph into a faintly similar name, and concludes at once that the same name
must be the same person, and that therefore this is the oldest record in the world, the confirmation
is not so striking. That it is so in this instance we do not affirm; but we should need the
assertion of a man of more intellectual sobriety than Mr. Laing to make it worth the trouble
of investigating.

Passing over the confirmation which he draws from the "known rate of the deposit of Nile mud
of about three inches a century," which would give a mild antiquity of twenty-six thousand
years to pottery fished up from borings in the mud, since he admits that "borings are not very
conclusive," we may notice how he deals with evidence from Chaldea on much the same principles.
Here, again, the source had been till lately only "fragments quoted by later writers from the
lost work of Berosus. Berosus was a learned priest of Babylon, who ... wrote in Greek a history
of the country from the most ancient times, compiled from the annals preserved in the temples
and from the oldest traditions." [56] Still this "learned priest," though antecedently as competent
a critic as Manetho, is so portentously mythical in his accounts, that "no historical value
can be attached to them," which must be regretted, since he pushes history back a quarter of
a million years prior to the Deluge, and the Deluge itself to about half a million years ago.
Here, therefore, we are thrown solely upon the independent value of the monumental evidence,
and must drop the argument from coincidence. This evidence, we are told, "is not so conclusive
as in the case of Egypt, where the lists of Manetho, &c.... The date of Sargon I. [57] (3800
B.C.) rests mainly on the authority of Nabonidus, who lived more than three thousand years
later, and may have been mistaken." "The probability of such a remote date is enhanced by the
certainty that a high civilization existed in Egypt as long ago as 5000 B.C." If the evidence
for the antiquity of Chaldee civilization is "less conclusive" than that for Egyptian, and
rests on it for an argument à pari, it cannot be said in any way to strengthen Mr. Laing's
position.

These strictures are directed chiefly to showing Mr. Laing's incapacity for anything like coherent
reasoning in historical matters. Subsequently he uses these most lame and impotent conclusions
as demonstrated certainties, without the faintest qualification, and builds up on them his
refutation of dogmatic Christianity.

However, it is only in his more recent work on Human Origins that he thus comes forward as
an historian, in preparation for which he seems to have devoted himself to the study of cuneiform
and hieroglyphs and mastered the subject thoroughly and exhaustively, before bursting forth
from behind the clouds to flood the world with new-born light.

It is deep down in the bowels of the earth, at the bottom of a geological well, that he has
found not only truth but, also man--among the monsters,

        Dragons of the prime
  Who tare each other in their slime,

and has hauled him up for our inspection. Mr. Laing is before all else an evolutionist, with
an unshaken belief in spontaneous generation. He is quite confident that force and atoms will
explain everything. He seems to mean force, pure and simple, without any intelligent direction;
atoms, ultimate, homogeneous, undifferentiated. No doubt, if the subsequent evolution depends
on the kind and direction of force, or on the nature of the atoms; then there is a remoter
question for physics to determine; but if, as he implies, force and atoms are simple and ultimate,
then evolution is as fortuitous as a sand-storm, or more so. All prior to force and atoms is
"behind the veil." "The material universe is composed of ether, matter, and energy." Especially to the School
Committee would we convey our grateful thanks for the interest you have manifested in the Class;
and for the kindness and consideration with which you have met all our wants, doing all in your
power to facilitate our studies.

We trust that our success in the future may be such as will reflect credit
on this Society.

To our teachers, Mr. Mason and Mr. Spaulding, you who have so well
performed your part, we hardly know how to thank you for your patient
and persistent efforts to fit us for the calling we have chosen.

Taking up this work after the fatigue of the day, with body and brain
already wearied, your task, as well as ours, has been a difficult
one.

But you
have ever been ready with words of encouragement to help us over the hard
places. Faithful, conscientious, you have gained our respect and esteem,
and we feel that in parting to-night we bid good-by not only to teachers,
but to earnest, helpful friends.

And yet, not a final good-by. For, are we not looking forward to many pleasant
meetings of the "Phonographic Alumnæ Association," when you have
promised to meet with us, and by your presence aid and encourage us
to continue our practice and by united efforts help one another?

For we believe the old maxim is true in this connection as in many
others,--"In union is strength."

Fellow classmates: For seven months we have met and studied together;
and now that the term is over it is with mingled feelings of joy and
regret that we meet to-night for the last time in this place.

Joy that our task is done; that the time to which we have looked forward
has come; for to many it has been a severe strain to continue to
the end.

We alone know the difficulties we have had to contend with; the pleasures
given up and the sacrifices made to be present at the class.

But who shall say it has not fully repaid us? Is not this knowledge
we have gained all the more precious because so dearly obtained?

Some have already begun to reap the reward, others are eagerly looking
forward to the time when they shall be able to put this knowledge into
actual practice.

With what bright anticipations
we took up the study of Phonography last October!

But what a mountain loomed
up before us in the shape of the alphabet. Then the strokes and curves,
and circles, how we puzzled our brains over which was which, and
how proud we were when we began to form words and to air our knowledge
of these mystic signs; only to be met with such questions as these,
"How many words can you write a minute?" or, "Do you think you could
take down a sermon?"

"Let me dictate this piece from the newspaper to you," all of
which made us feel how limited was our knowledge and how much we
had still to learn.

Then the examinations; how they hung over our heads like dark clouds
threatening us at every turn!

But that is all past and gone, and
time, with its never ebbing tide, has brought us to this parting hour.

What
our future will be depends upon our own individual efforts. [66] Perhaps Professor Boyd-Dawkins, who credits the "dryopithecus"
with these productions, is a more consistent evolutionist; but at present Mr. Laing is defending
a thesis as to man's antiquity. Yet he has just said that these flint instruments are "only
one step in advance of the rude, natural stone which an intelligent orang or chimpanzee might
pick up to crack a cocoa-nut with." Truly a very significant step, though it be only one. How
hard this is to reconcile with what Mr. Laing ascribes to dogs and ants elsewhere, or with
what he says on page 173, "These higher apes remain creatures of very considerable intelligence....
There is a chimpanzee now in the Zoological Gardens ... which can do all but speak" [either
it speaks, or it does not. It is precisely a case of the "only one step" quoted above. Here
if anywhere a "miss is as good as a mile"], "which understands almost every word the keeper
says to it, and when told to sing will purse out its lips and try to utter connected notes."
[How on earth do we know what it is trying to do?] "In their native state they (apes) form
societies and obey a chief." [The old fallacy of metaphors adverted to in relation to ants
and dogs.] Yet "no animal has ever learned to speak," "no chimpanzee or gorilla has ever been
known to fashion any implement." [67] Their nearest approach to invention is in the building
of huts or nests, in which they "are very inferior to most species of birds, to say nothing
of insects." On the other hand, "as regards tool-making, no human race is known which has not
shown some faculty in this direction." [68] "The difference is a very fundamental one," and
"may be summed up in the words 'arrested development.'" Words, indeed! but what do they mean?
They mean that these animals have not developed the faculties of speech and tool-making, which
would have been most useful to them in the struggle for existence, the reason being that they
did not; and this reason is exalted into a cause or law of "arrested development." Who or what
arrested it? The advantage of the term is that it implies that they were on the point of developing,
that they could "all but speak," were "trying to utter connected notes," were "but one step"
behind flint axes, when some cosmic power said, "Hitherto shalt thou come and no further."

If the dog had organs of speech or an instrument like the hand by which to place himself in
closer relation to the outer world, he would doubtless be on a footing of mental equality with
man, according to Mr. Laing. [69] The elephant's trunk accounts for his superior sagacity,
and the horse suffers by his hoof-enclosed forefoot. [70] "Given a being with man's brain,
man's hand, and erect stature, it is easy to see how intelligence must have been gradually
evolved." [71] Now honestly it seems to us that many animals are as well provided as man is
with a variety of flexible organs of communication with the outward world (for example, the
antennae of insects, the prehensile tails of some monkeys, whose hands are as lithe as man's
and articulated bone for bone and joint for joint). But letting this pass, we thought evolutionists
allowed that structure is determined by function, rather than the converse; and so the confession
that "it is not so easy to see how this difference of the structure arose," [72] surprises
us, coming from Mr. Laing; though why this difference should exist at all, on evolution principles,
is a far greater difficulty. Yet he confesses that "the difference in structure between the
lowest existing race of man and the highest existing ape, [73] is too great to admit of one
being possibly the direct descendant of the other." The ape, then, is not a man whose development
is arrested. "The negro in some respects makes a slight approximation, ... still he is essentially
a man, and separated by a wide gulf from the chimpanzee or gorilla. Even the idiot is ... an
arrested man and, not an ape." [74]

Nearly all these (higher intellectual and moral) faculties appear in a rudimentary state in
animals.... Still there is this wide distinction that even in the highest animals these faculties
remain rudimentary and seem incapable of progress, while even in the lowest races of man they
have reached a much higher level [75] and seem capable of almost unlimited development. [76]
Why does he not seek out the reason of this, or is he satisfied with the words "arrested development"?
If I find a child who can repeat a poem of Tennyson's, am I to be puzzled because it cannot
originate one as good, or go on even to something better? Am I to ascribe to it a rudimentary
but arrested poetic faculty? Surely the same poem proceeding from the lips of the poet and
of the child he has taught, are essentially different effects, though outwardly the same. If
there were a true living germ, it would most certainly develope. If the savage developes through
contact with the civilized man after centuries of degradation, why have not domesticated dogs,
who are, according to Laing, their intellectual and moral equals, developed long ago?

However, as "evolution has become the axiom of science and is admitted by every one who has
the slightest pretensions to be considered a competent authority," [77] it is preposterous
to suppose man an exception, whatever be the difficulties. [78] And so Mr. Laing, assuming
axiomatically that man and the ape have a common ancestor, is interested to make the differences
between them deeply marked, and that, as far back as he can, for thereby "Human Origins" are
pushed back by hundreds of thousands of years. If miocene man is as distinct from the ape as
recent man, the inference is that we are then as far from the source as ever. Hence it is to
geology he looks for the strongest basis of his position. One thought till lately that geology
was a tentative science, hardly credited with the name of science, but Mr. Laing wisely and
boldly classes it among the "exact sciences," whose subject-matter is "flint instruments, incised
bones, and a few rare specimens of human skulls and skeletons, the meaning of which has to
be deciphered by skilled experts." [79] "The conclusions of geology," up to the Silurian period,
"are approximate facts, not theories." [80]

If he means that the only legitimate data of geologists are facts of observation, classified
and recorded, well and good; but to deny that they deal largely in hypotheses, and use them
constantly as the premisses for inferences which are equally hypothetical, is palpably absurd.
First of all we are to "assume the principle of uniformity" which Lyell is said to have established
on an unassailable basis and to have made the fundamental axiom of geological science. He "has
shown conclusively that while causes identical with ... existing causes will, if given sufficient
time, account for all the facts hitherto observed, there is not a single fact which proves
the occurrence of a totally different order of causes." [81] This, however, is (1) limited
to the period of geology which gives record of organic life, and not to the earlier astronomical
period; nor (2) does it exclude changes in temperature, climate, distribution of seas and lands;
nor (3) does it "affirm positively that there may not have been in past ages explosions more
violent than that of Krakatoa; lava-streams more extensive than that of Skaptar-Jokul, and
earthquakes more powerful than that which uplifted five or six hundred miles of the Pacific
coast of South America six or seven feet." [82] Now, seeing that all these cataclysms have
occurred within the brief limits of most recent time, compared with which the period of pretended
uniformity is almost an eternity, what sort of presumption or probability is there that such
occurrences should have been confined to historical times; and is not the presumption all the
other way? Again, it is largely on the supposition of this antecedently unlikely uniformity,
that Mr. Laing argues to the antiquity of life on earth; whereas Lyell's conclusion warrants
nothing of the kind, being simply: that present causes, "given sufficient time," would produce
the observed effects. [83]

Our tests of geologic time are denudation and deposition. We are told "the present rate of
denudation of a continent is known with considerable accuracy from careful measurements of
the quantity of solid matter carried down by rivers." [84] Now it is a considerable tax on
our faith in science to believe that the débris of the Mississippi can be so accurately gauged
as to give anything like approximate value to the result of one foot of continental denudation
in 6,000 years. We cannot of course suppose this to be the result of 6,000 years registered
observations, but an inference from the observations of some comparatively insignificant period;
and we have also to suppose that the very few rivers which have been observed form a sufficient
basis for a conclusion as to all rivers. In fact, a more feebly supported generalization from
more insufficient data it is hard to conceive. To speak of it as "an approximation based on
our knowledge of the time in which similar results on a smaller scale have been produced by
existing natural laws within the historical period," [85] is a very inadequate qualification,
especially when we have just been told that "here, at any rate, we are on comparatively certain
ground, ... these are measurable facts which have been ascertained by competent observers." [86]

Assuming this rate of denudation as certain, and also the estimate of the known sedimentary
strata as 177,000 feet in depth, we are to conclude that the formation took 56,000,000 years.
A mountain mass which ought to answer to certain fault 15,000 high, and therefore is presumed
to have vanished by denudation, points to a term of 90,000,000 years as required for the process.
[87]

"Reasoning from these facts, assuming the rate of change in the forms of life to have been
the same formerly, Lyell concludes that geological phenomena postulate 200,000,000 years at
least," [88] "to account for the undoubted facts of geology since life began." [89] On the
other hand, mathematical astronomy, [90] on theories which Mr. Laing complains of as wanting
the solidity of geological calculations (yet which do not involve more, but fewer assumptions),
cannot allow the sun a past existence of more than 15,000,000 years. [91] "It is evident that
there must be some fundamental error on one side or the other," [92] "for the laws of nature
are uniform, and there cannot be one code for astronomers, and one for geologists." But while
modestly relegating this slight divergency among the "bell-wethers of science" (bell-wethers,
I presume, because the crowd follow them like sheep), to the "problems of the future," Mr.
Laing is quite confident that we should "distrust these mathematical calculations," and rely
on conclusions based on ascertained facts and undoubted deductions from them, rather than on
abstract and doubtful theories, "which would so reduce geological time as to negative the idea
of uniformity of law and evolution, and introduce once more the chaos of catastrophes and supernatural
interferences."[93] As regards the ice-age, Mr. Laing is professedly interested in putting
it as far back as possible, since "a short date for that period shortens that for which we
have positive proof of the existence of man, and ... a very short date ... brings us back to
the old theories of repeated and recent acts of supernatural interference." [94] Strange, that
in the same page he should refer to Sir J. Dawson as an "extreme instance" of one who approaches
the question with "theological prepossessions;" and of course in complete ignorance of Mr.
Laing's indubitable conclusions about the antiquity of Egyptian civilization. Unfortunately,
even the best scientists have not that perfect freedom from bias, which gives Mr. Laing such
a towering advantage over them all. "An authority like Prestwich," who "cannot be accused of
theological bias," influenced, however, by a servile astronomical bias, "reduces to 20,000
years a period to which Lyell and modern geologists assign a duration of more than 200,000
years;" [95] which "shows in what a state of uncertainty we are as to this vitally important
problem;" for this time assigned by Prestwich "would be clearly insufficient to allow for the
development of Egyptian civilization, as it existed 5,000 years ago, from savage and semi-animal
ancestors; as is proved to be the case with the horse, stag, elephant, ape," and so on. [96]
Now Prestwich, we are told elsewhere, is "the first living authority on the tertiary and quaternary
strata." [97] If, then, astronomical prepossession can reduce 200,000 to 20,000 years, the
sin of theology, which reduces 20,000 to 7,000 is comparatively venial. Prestwich's two objections
are (1) the data of astronomy, and (2) "the difficulty of conceiving that man could have existed
for 80,000 or 100,000 years without change and without progress." The former is "only one degree
less mischievous than the theological prepossession." However, Prestwich has some "facts" as
well as prepossessions, such as "the rapid advance of the glaciers of Greenland,"[98] which
does not accord with the generalization from the Swiss glaciers;[99] and the quicker erosion
of river valleys, due to a greater rainfall; facts which, however, are met by "a minute description
of the successive changes by which in post-glacial time the Mersey valley and estuary were
brought into their present condition, with an estimate of the time they may have required;"
which is "in round numbers 60,000 years," as opposed to Prestwich's 10,000 or 8,000. [100]
The 200,000 years for the ice-age depends chiefly on Croll's theory of secular variation of
the earth's orbitular eccentricity; but we are told it is open to the "objection that it requires
us to assume a periodical succession of glacial epochs" of which two or three "must have occurred
during each of the great geological epochs. [101] This is opposed to geological evidence."
"'Not proven' is the verdict which most geologists would return." "The confidence with which
Croll's theory was first received has been a good deal shaken." "We have to fall back, therefore,
on the geological evidence of deposition and denudation ... in any attempt to decide between
the 200,000 years of Lyell and the 20,000 years of Prestwich." [102]

As to his arguments based on ancient human remains, their value depends first on the accuracy
of his geological conclusions, and then on preclusion of all possibility of the conveyance
of the remains from upper strata to lower; on the certainty, moreover, of traces of design
in many of the would-be miocene or tertiary flint instruments (which Prestwich is doubtful
about).[103] He takes care not to tell us that the Carstadt skull which gives name to a race,
is a very doubtfully genuine relic of one hundred and thirty years old, whose history is most
dubious. His evidence for the absence of the slightest approximation to the simian type even
in the oldest relics is cheering to the theologian, though it loses its value when we know
it is in the interests of his foregone conclusions as to the unspeakable antiquity of man.
The Nampe image, the oldest relic yet discovered, "revolutionizes our conception of this early
palaeolithic age," being a "more artistic and better representation of the human form than
the little idols of many comparatively modern and civilized people," very like those in Mexico,
"believed to be not much older than the date of the Spanish conquest"--"and in truth, I believe,
contemporaneous." [104]

As to his treatment of the Bible, it evinces everywhere the crudest anthropomorphic method
of interpretation such as we should expect to find in a child or very ignorant person. In truth,
Mr. Laing is in a perfectly childish state of mind both as regards the Christian religion and
as regards philosophy, sciences, and all the subjects he dabbles with.

For our own part we have at most a general idea as to what exactly the Church does teach or
may teach with regard to the interpretation of the Scripture. That she has so far acquiesced
in the larger interpretation of Genesiacal cosmogony, that now the literal six-day theory would
be very unsafe, forbids us to judge any present interpretation of other parts by the number,
noise, or notoriety of its adherents. The universality of the Deluge is by no means the only
tolerable interpretation now; though the doctrine of a partial deluge would have been most
unsafe a century ago. All this does not mean giving up the inspiration of the record, but determining
gradually what is meant by inspiration and the record. What could be less important to Christian
dogma than the date of the Deluge or of Adam's creation? If it were proved that the original
text in this point had been hopelessly corrupted, as the discrepancies between the LXX. numbers
and the Hebrew hint to be true to some extent, it would not touch the guaranteed integrity
of Christian dogma. If Christ is the "son" of David, and Zachæus is "son" of Abraham, what
period may not an apparent single generation stand for, especially in regard to the earlier
Patriarchs? As far as the prophetic import of the Deluge is concerned, a very small local affair
might be mystically large with foreshadowings, as we see with regard to the enacted prophecies
of the later prophets. For the rest, we are quite weary of Mr. Laing, and are content to have
shown that everywhere he is the same biassed, inconsequent, untrustworthy writer. His only
power is a certain superficial clearness of diction and brilliancy of style, and this is brought
to bear on a mass of information drawn confessedly from the labours of others, and selected
in the interest of a foregone conclusion, without a single attempt at a fair presentment of
the other side.

Here, then, we have a very fair specimen of the pseudo-philosophy which is so admirably adapted
to captivate the half-informed, wholly unformed minds of the undiscriminating multitudes who
have been taught little or nothing well except to believe in their right, duty, and ability
to judge for themselves in matters for which a life-time of specialization were barely sufficient.
A congeries of dogmatic assertions and negations raked together from the chief writers of a
decadent school, discredited twenty years ago by all men of thought, Christian or otherwise;
a show of logical order and reasoning which evades our grasp the instant we try to lay critical
hands on it; a profuse expression of disinterested devotion to abstract truth, an occasional
bow to conventional morality, a racy, irreverent style, an elaborate display of miscellaneous
information; good paper, large type, cheap wood-cuts, and the work is done.

Oct. Nov. 1895.

[Footnote 1: M.S. 319.]

[Footnote 2: Ibid. 319.]

[Footnote 3: M.S. 229, 230.]

[Footnote 4: P.F. 279.]

[Footnote 5: P.F. 280]

[Footnote 6: Ibid.]

[Footnote 7: P.F. 281, 282.]

[Footnote 8: Ibid.]

[Footnote 9: Ibid. 210.]

[Footnote: 10 M.S. Preface]

[Footnote 11: "These subjects ... have been to me the solace of a long life, the delight of
many quiet days, and the soother of many troubled ones ... a source of enjoyment.

 "'The anchor of my purest thoughts, the nurse,
   The guardian of my heart, and soul
   Of all my moral being.'" (H.O. 3.)]

[Footnote: 12 M.S. 319.]

[Footnote: 13 Ibid. 320.]

[Footnote: 14 Cf. Ibid. 104, 282.]

[Footnote 15: This expression seems inconsistent with his here and elsewhere explicit maintenance
of the hereditary transmission of gathered moral experiences. He means here to exclude innate
ideas of morality as explained by Kant and by other intuitionists.]

[Footnote 16: M.S. 180.]

[Footnote 17: M.S. 285.]

[Footnote 18: M.S. 216.]

[Footnote 19: M.S. 294.]

[Footnote 20: M.S. 298, 299.]

[Footnote 21: P.F. 297. "The truth is that morals are built on a far surer foundation than
that of creeds, which are here to-day and gone to-morrow. They are built on the solid rock
of experiences, and of the 'survival of the fittest,' which in the long evolution of the human
race from primeval savages, have by 'natural selection' and 'heredity' become almost instinctive."
(How careless is this terminology. In the previous page he denies morality to be a matter of
hereditary instinct.)]

[Footnote 22: P.F. 206.]

[Footnote 23: Ibid. 207.]

[Footnote 24: P.P. 204.]

[Footnote 25: M.S. Preface.]

[Footnote 26: H.O. 3.]

[Footnote 27: P.P. 3.]

[Footnote 28: "The simple undoubting faith which for ages has been the support and consolation
of a large portion of mankind, especially of the weak, the humble, the unlearned, who form
an immense majority, cannot disappear without a painful wrench, and leaving for a time a great
blank behind." (M.S. 284.)]

[Footnote 29: xxxiii.]

[Footnote 30: M.S. 261.]

[Footnote 31: P.F. 176.]

[Footnote 32: P. 177.]

[Footnote 33: P.F. 192.]

[Footnote 34: P. 245.]

[Footnote 35: P.F. 222.]

[Footnote 36: Thus he assumes Mr. Spurgeon's definition of inspiration as the basis of operations
(See H.O. 189), and says, "It is perfectly obvious that for those who accept these confessions
of faith ... all the discoveries of modern science, from Galileo and Newton down to Lyall and
Darwin, are simple delusions."]

[Footnote 37: M.S. 215.]

[Footnote 38: Ibid. 251.]

[Footnote 39: "The simplest straightforward evidence of the earliest Christian writer who gives
any account of their origin, viz., Papias." (P.F. 236.) "What does Papias say? Practically
this: that he preferred oral tradition to written documents.... This is a perfectly clear and
intelligible statement made apparently in good faith without any dogmatic or other prepossession....
It has always seemed to me that all theories ... were comparatively worthless which did not
take into account the fundamental fact of this statement of Papias." (238.) "The clear and
explicit statement of Papias." (250.)]

[Footnote 40: PP. 258--260.]

[Footnote 41: P. 262.]

[Footnote 42: P.F. 266.]

[Footnote 43: With regard to this "very precise statement," it is noticeable that Matthew speaks
of "Mary the mother of James and Joses;" Mark, of "Mary the mother of James the less and of
Joseph and Salome," but not "of Salome." If Mr. Laing's precise mind had looked for a moment
at the text he was criticizing he would have seen that Salome is a common name in the nominative
case. St. Luke does not give the names of the women at all. These points are trifling in themselves,
but important as evidencing Mr. Laing's standard of intellectual conscientiousness.]

[Footnote 44: P.F. 235]

[Footnote 45: M.S. 332 ff.]

[Footnote 46: H.O. 2.]

[Footnote 47: H.O. 8.]

[Footnote 48: H.O. II]

[Footnote 49: H.O. 9 and 199.]

[Footnote 50: H.O. 10.]

[Footnote 51: This seems, later, to be an inference, not an assertion. "Manetho was a learned
priest of a celebrated temple, who must have had access to all the temples and royal records
and other literature of Egypt, and who must have been also conversant with foreign literature
to have been selected as the best man to write a complete history of his native country." (H.O.
22.)]

[Footnote 52: He seems to think that Josephus was a Christian, and Syncellus a "Father." We
might mention that from the fragments of Africanus' Pentabiblion Chronicon, preserved in Eusebius,
the author places the Creation at 5499 B.C., which is certainly hardly compatible with his
giving such fragments of Manetho as would place Menes one year before that date. If we know
nothing of Manetho's results except through these "orthodox" sources, it is inconceivable that
Mr. Laing's version of them should have any historical basis whatever. It comes in fine to
this, that because their report of Manetho does not give Mr. Laing what he wants, they have
been tampered with.]

[Footnote 53: H.O. 11.]

[Footnote 54: H.O. 22.]

[Footnote 55: H.O. 17.]

[Footnote 56: H.O. 42.]

[Footnote 57: "There can be no doubt, moreover, that this Sargon I. is a perfectly historical
personage. A statue of him has been found at Agade." (H.O. 55.)]

[Footnote 58: M.S. 50.]

[Footnote 59: Ibid.]

[Footnote 60: P.F. 28.]

[Footnote 61: M.S. 61.]

[Footnote 62: "Matter is made of molecules; molecules are made of atoms; atoms are little magnets
which link themselves together and form all the complex creations of an ordered cosmos [an
ordered order] by virtue of the attractive and repulsive forces which are the result of polarity."
(P.F, 223.)]

[Footnote 63: We suppose he has a right to call himself agnostic as being a disciple of Professor
Huxley, who, we believe, started or revived the term in our own times. Of course he is also
a dogmatic materialist, and by no means an "agnostic" in the wider sense of general scepticism.]

[Footnote 64: M.S. 171.]

[Footnote 65: "Not only have no missing links been discovered, but the oldest known human skulls
and skeletons, which date from the glacial period and are probably at least one hundred thousand
years old, show no very decided approximation towards any such pre-human type. On the contrary,"
&c. (M.S. 181.) He replies (H.O. 373) that "five hundred thousand years prior to these men
of Spy and Neanderthal, the human race has existed in higher physical perfection, nearer to
the existing type of modern man," (Cf. P.F. 158.)]

[Footnote 66: M.S. 112, 114.]

[Footnote 67: P.F. 154.]

[Footnote 68: P.F. 154.]

[Footnote 69: M.S. 175.]

[Footnote 70: The horse "may be taken as the typical instance of descent by progressive specialization.
What is a horse? It is essentially an animal specialized for ... the rapid progression of a
bulky body over plains or deserts" [a definition which applies equally to the camel, &c.].
It commenced existence as a "pentadactyle plantigrade bunodont." For some indefined reason
"the first step was to walking on the toes instead of on the flat of the foot, ... which became
general in most lines of their descendants. The supposition that miraculous powers might be wielded by
heretics (though it might be supported by high authority) led to consequences too frightful
to be entertained by people who were busied in building their dogmatic house on the sands of early
Church history. If, as the Romanists maintained, an unbroken series of genuine miracles adorned
the records of their Church, throughout the whole of its existence, no Anglican could lightly venture
to accuse them of doctrinal corruption.

Hence, the Anglicans, who indulged in such accusations, were bound to prove
the modern, the mediæval Roman, and the later Patristic, miracles false;
and to shut off the wonder-working power from the Church at the exact point
of time when Anglican doctrine ceased and Roman doctrine began. With a
little adjustment--a squeeze here and a pull there--the Christianity of
the first three or four centuries might be made to fit, or seem to
fit, pretty well into the Anglican scheme. So the miracles, from
Justin say to Jerome, might be recognised; while, in later times,
the Church having become "corrupt"--that is to say, having pursued
one and the same line of development further than was pleasing to
Anglicans--its alleged miracles must needs be shams and impostures.

Under these circumstances, it may be imagined that the establishment of a scientific
frontier between the earlier realm of supposed fact and the later of
asserted delusion, had its difficulties; and torrents of theological special
pleading about the subject flowed from clerical pens; until that
learned and acute Anglican divine, Conyers Middleton, in his "Free Inquiry,"
tore the sophistical web they had laboriously woven to pieces, and
demonstrated that the miracles of the patristic age, early and late,
must stand or fall together, inasmuch as the evidence for the later
is just as good as the evidence for the earlier wonders.

If the one set are certified by contemporaneous witnesses of high repute, so
are the other; and, in point of probability, there is not a pin to choose
between the two. That is the solid and irrefragable result of Middleton's
contribution to the subject. But the Free Inquirer's freedom had its
limits; and he draws a sharp line of demarcation between the patristic
and the New Testament miracles--on the professed ground that the accounts
of the latter, being inspired, are out of the reach of criticism.

A century later, the question was taken up by another divine, Middleton's
equal in learning and acuteness, and far his superior in subtlety and
dialectic skill; who, though an Anglican, scorned the name of Protestant;
and, while yet a Churchman, made it his business, to parade, with
infinite skill, the utter hollowness of the arguments of those of
his brother Churchmen who dreamed that they could be both Anglicans
and Protestants.

The argument of the "Essay on the Miracles recorded in the Ecclesiastical
History of the Early Ages"

[60] by the present [1889] Roman Cardinal, but then Anglican Doctor, John Henry Newman, is compendiously
stated by himself in the following passage:--

If the miracles of Church history cannot be defended by the arguments
of Leslie, Lyttelton, Paley, or Douglas, how many of the Scripture
miracles satisfy their conditions?

(P. cvii.)

And, although the answer is not given in so many words,
little doubt is left on the mind of the reader, that in the mind of
the writer, it is: None.

In fact, this conclusion is one which cannot be resisted, if the argument
in favour of the Scripture miracles is based upon that which laymen,
whether lawyers, or men of science, or historians, or ordinary men
of affairs, call evidence.

But there is something really impressive in the magnificent contempt with
which, at times, Dr. Newman sweeps aside alike those who offer and those
who demand such evidence.

Some infidel authors advise us to accept no miracles which would not
have a verdict in their favour in a court of justice; that is, they
employ against Scripture a weapon which Protestants would confine
to attacks upon the Church; as if moral and religious questions required
legal proof, and evidence were the test of truth[61] (p. cvii).

"As if evidence were the test of truth!"--although the truth in question
is the occurrence, or the non-occurrence, of certain phenomena at a
certain time and in a certain place.

This sudden revelation of the great gulf fixed between the ecclesiastical
and the scientific mind is enough to take away the breath of any
one unfamiliar with the clerical organon.

 He assumes, perhaps with some
truth, that the distinction between dream and reality is more faintly marked in the less developed
mind; in the child than in the adult, in the savage than in the civilized man. Hence a belief
arises in a filmy phantasmal self that wanders abroad in sleep and leaves the body untenanted,
and meets and converses with other phantasmal selves. Nor is it hard to see how death, being
viewed as a permanent sleep, should be ascribed to the final abandonment of the body by its
"dream-stuff" occupant. Whether as dreaded or loved or both, this ever-gathering crowd of disembodied
spirits wins for itself a certain cultus of praise and propitiation, and reverence, and is
humoured with food-offerings and similar sacrifices. Nor is it long before the form of an earthly
polity is transferred to that unearthly city of the dead, till for one reason or another some
jealous ghost gains a monarchic supremacy over his brethren, and thus polytheism gives place
to monotheism. It need not be that this supreme deity is always conceived as a defunct ancestor,
once embodied, but no longer in the body. Rather it would seem that the primitive savage, having
once arrived at the conception of a ghost, passes by generalization to that of incorporeal
beings unborn and undying, of spirits whose presence and power is revealed in stocks and stones,
or in idols shaped humanwise--spirits who preside over trees, rivers, and elements, over species
and classes and departments of Nature, over tribes and peoples and nations; until, as before,
the struggle for existence or some other cause gives supremacy to some one god fittest to survive
either through being more conceivable, or more powerful, or in some other way more popular
than the rest of the pantheon.

Again, it is assumed that the gods of primitive man are non-ethical, that they do not "make
for righteousness;" that they are at most jealous powers to be feared and propitiated. When
the savage speaks of a god as good, he only means "favourable to me," "on my side;" he does
not mean "good to me if I am good." God is conceived first as power and force; then as non-moral
wisdom, or cunning, and only in the very latest developments as holy and just and loving.

Starting with the assumptions of evolutionists, the theory is plausible enough. Nor is it inconceivable
that God, without using error and evil directly as a means to truth and good, should passively
permit error for the sake of the truth that He foresees will come out of it. Astrology was
not incipient astronomy; nor was alchemy primitive chemistry; the end and aim in each case
was wholly different. Yet the pseudo-science gave birth to the true; as false premisses often
lead by bad logic to sound conclusions. But we are very anthropomorphic, and totally ignorant
of the conditions of the problem." In like manner it might have been, that God willed to let
men wander through the slums and backways of animism into the open road of theism.

But our concern is not with what might have been, but with what was.

Mr. Lang contends, first, that belief in spirits and in a circumambient spiritual world, more
probably originated in certain real or imaginary experiences of supernormal phenomena, than
in a fallacious explanation of dreams; then, that belief in a supreme god is most probably
not derived from or dependent upon belief in ghosts.

Consistently with the whole trend of his thought in his recent work connected with psychical
research, in Myth, Ritual, and Religion, in Cock-Lane and Common-Sense, Mr. Lang begins by
entering a protest against the attitude observed towards the subject by contemporary science,
especially by anthropology, which, as having been so lately "in the same condemnation," might
be expected to show itself superior to that injustice which it had itself so much reason to
complain of. Yet anthropology, abandoning the first principles of modern science, still refuses
to listen to the facts alleged by psychical research, and justifies its refusal on Hume's oft-exploded
fallacy, namely, on an à priori conviction of their impossibility and therefore of their non-occurrence.

However wide the range of experience upon which physical generalizations are based, it can
never be so wide as on this score alone to prove the inherent possibility of exceptions; more
especially when we consider the confinement of the human race to what is relatively a momentary
existence on a whirling particle of dust in a sandstorm. There may indeed be abundant evidence
of a certain impetus or tendency enduring from a comparatively distant and indefinite past
and making for an equally indefinite future; but there is not, cannot be evidence against the
possibility of interference from other laws whose paths, at points unknown and incalculable,
intersect those followed by the (to us) ordinary course of events.

And in this wholesome agnosticism we are confirmed when we see that while some animals are
deprived of certain senses which we possess, and all of them of the gift of reason, others
are apparently endowed with senses unknown to us, and are taught by seeming instincts which
surpass what reason could effect; whence we may infer that the likelihood of our being en rapport
with the greater part of the possible phenomena amidst which we live, or of our possessing
all possible senses or the best of those possible, is infinitely small. What a magician a man
with eyes would be among a race of sightless men; or a man with ears among a deaf population!
How studiously would the scientists explain the effects of sight as produced by subtilty of
hearing; and those of hearing as due to abnormal sensitiveness in some other respect!

But though there be no à priori impossibility in deviations from the beaten track, yet there
is a certain à priori improbability which may seem to justify those who refuse to go into alleged
instances of the supernormal. There is a story against Thomas Aquinas, that on being invited
by a frisky brother-monk to come and see a cow flying, or some such marvel, he gravely came
and saw not, but expressed himself far more astounded at the miracle that a religious man should
say "the thing which was not." This is certainly a glorious antithesis to Hume's position.
Whether we take it to illustrate the Saint's extreme lack of humour, or a subtler depth of
humour veiled under stolidity, or his rigorous veracity, or his guileless confidence in the
veracity of others, we certainly cannot approve it as an example of the attitude we ought to
observe with regard to every newly recounted marvel. Truly there might be more liberality,
more enlightenment, more imagination in such a ready credulity, than in the wall-eyed, ear-stopping
scepticism of popular science; but the mere inner possibility of a recounted marvel does not
oblige us to search into the matter unless the evidence offered bear some reasonable proportion
to the burden it has to support. That this is the case as regards crystal-gazing, telepathy,
possession, and kindred manifestation, is what Mr. Lang contends; nor would he have any quarrel
with the anthropologists were they not fully impressed with the importance of similar or even
weaker cumulative evidence for conclusions which happen to be in harmony with their preconceived
hypotheses. Evils, real or supposed, have always existed, which the supreme power in the nation has
endeavoured to remove by the provisions of law. And under the name
of laws I would include the acts of councils, which form an important
part of the history of European nations during many centuries; provincial
councils, as you are aware, having been held very frequently, and
their enactments relating to local and particular evils, so that they
illustrate history in a very lively manner. Psychic research is daily applying to that tangled mass of world-wide evidence
ancient and modern for the existence of an X-region of experience, those same critical and
historical principles which created modern science. Men who, as often as not, have no religion
or no superstition themselves, see that both religion and superstition are universal phenomena,
and cannot be neglected by those who would study humanity historically and scientifically.
Even if there be nothing in hallucinations, apparitions, scrying, second-sight, poltergeists,
and the rest, there is a great deal in the fact that belief in these things is as wide and
as old as the world; it is a fact to be explained. Are my fellow-creatures wrong in withholding
a subsistence from me, while I am rather consulting my own tastes and inclinations than their
necessities?' It may then occur to him that the great law must somehow be obeyed--a something must
be done for mankind which they require, and it must be done where
and how they require it, in order that each individual may have a
true claim upon the rest.

To get into the right and fitting place in the social machine may
be difficult; but there is no alternative. Few of us are in a position to cast stones on this score; still, recognizing the weakness
more clearly in others than in ourselves, we are justified in reckoning with it, and in discounting
for the unwillingness of men of science to listen to facts inconsistent with long-cherished
theories, and for their tendency to accumulate and magnify evidence on the other side.

