From Wrangell northward the steamboat followed the route of our canoe voyage of 1880 through
Wrangell Narrows into Prince Frederick Sound, past Norris Glacier and Holkham Bay into Stevens
Passage, past Taku Bay to Juneau and on to Lynn Canal--then on the track of our voyage of 1879
up to Haines and beyond fifteen miles to that new, chaotic camp in the woods called Skagway.

The two or three days which it took The Queen to discharge her load of passengers and cargo
of their outfits were spent by Muir and his scientific companions in roaming the forests and
mountains about Skagway and examining the flora of that region. They kept mostly off the trail
of the struggling, straggling army of Cheechakoes (newcomers) who were blunderingly trying
to get their goods and themselves across the rugged, jagged mountains on their way to the promised
land of gold; but Muir found time to spend some hours with me in my camp under a hemlock, where
he ate again of my cooking over a camp-fire.

"You are going on a strange journey this time, my friend," he admonished me. "I don't envy
you. You'll have a hard time keeping your heart light and simple in the midst of this crowd
of madmen. Instead of the music of the wind among the spruce-tops and the tinkling of the waterfalls,
your ears will be filled with the oaths and groans of these poor, deluded, self-burdened men.
Keep close to Nature's heart, yourself; and break clear away, once in a while, and climb a
mountain or spend a week in the woods. Wash your spirit clean from the earth-stains of this
sordid, gold-seeking crowd in God's pure air. It will help you in your efforts to bring to
these men something better than gold. Don't lose your freedom and your love of the Earth as
God made it."

In 1899 it was my good fortune to have one more Alaska day with John Muir at Skagway. After
a year in the Klondyke I had spent the winter of 1898-99 in the Eastern States arousing the
Christian public to the needs of this newly discovered Empire of the North; and was returning
with other ministers to interior and western Alaska. The White Pass Railroad was completed
only to the summit; and it was a laborious task, requiring a month of very hard work, to get
our goods from Skagway over the thirty miles of mountains to Lake Bennett, where we could load
them on our open boat for the voyage of two thousand miles down the Yukon.

While I was engaged in this task there came to Skagway the steamship George W. Elder, carrying
one of the most remarkable companies of scientific men ever gathered together in one expedition.
Mr. Harriman, the great railroad magnate, had chartered the steamer, and had invited as his
guests many men of world reputation in various branches of natural science. Among them were
John Burroughs, Drs. Merriam and Dahl of the Smithsonian Institute, and, not least, John Muir.
Indeed he was called the Nestor of the expedition and his advice followed as that of no other.

The enticing proposition was made me by Muir, and backed by Mr. Harriman's personal invitation,
that I should join this distinguished company, share Muir's stateroom and spend the summer
cruising along the southern and western coasts of Alaska. However, the new mining camps were
calling with a still more imperative voice, and I had to turn my back to the Coast and face
the great, sun-bathed Interior. But what a joy and inspiration it would have been to climb
Muir, Geicke and Taylor glaciers again with Muir, note the rapid progress God was making in
His work of landscape gardening by means of these great tools, make at last our deferred visits
to Lituya and Yakutat bays and the fine glaciers of Prince William's Sound, and renew my studies
of this good world under my great Master.

