     "The news of the gold that I said I would give is, that on the day
     of the Nativity, while I was much tormented, being harassed by
     wicked Christians and by Indians, and when I was on the point of
     giving up everything, and if possible escaping from life, our Lord
     miraculously comforted me and said, 'Fear not violence, I will
     provide for all things: the seven years of the term of the gold have
     not elapsed, and in that and in everything else I will afford thee a
     remedy.'

     "On that day I learned that there were eighty leagues of land with
     mines at every point thereof.  The opinion now is that it is all
     one.  Some have collected a hundred and twenty castellanos in one
     day, and others ninety, and even the number of two hundred and fifty
     has been reached.  From fifty to seventy, and in many more cases
     from fifteen to fifty, is considered a good day's work, and many
     carry it on.  The usual quantity is from six to twelve, and any one
     obtaining less than this is not satisfied. It seems to me that these
     mines are like others, and do not yield equally every day.  The
     mines are new, and so are the workers: it is the opinion of
     everybody that even if all Castile were to go there, every
     individual, however inexpert he might be, would not obtain less than
     one or two castellanos daily, and now it is only commencing.  It is
     true that they keep Indians, but the business is in the hands of the
     Christians.  Behold what discernment Bobadilla had, when he gave up
     everything for nothing, and four millions of tenths, without any
     reason or even being requested, and without first notifying it to
     their Highnesses.  And this is not the only loss.

     "I know that my errors have not been committed with the intention of
     doing evil, and I believe that their Highnesses regard the matter
     just as I state it: and I know and see that they deal mercifully
     even with those who maliciously act to their disservice.  I believe
     and consider it very certain that their clemency will be both
     greater and more abundant towards me, for I fell therein through
     ignorance and the force of circumstances, as they will know fully
     hereafter; and I indeed am their creature, and they will look upon
     my services, and will acknowledge day by day that they are much
     profited.  They will place everything in the balance, even as Holy
     Scripture tells us good and evil will be at the day of judgment.

     "If, however, they command that another person do judge me, which I
     cannot believe, and that it be by inquisition in the Indies, I very
     humbly beseech them to send thither two conscientious and honourable
     persons at my expense, who I believe will easily, now that gold is
     discovered, find five marks in four hours.  In either case it is
     needful for them to provide for this matter.

     "The Commander on his arrival at San Domingo took up his abode in my
     house, and just as he found it so he appropriated everything to
     himself.  Well and good; perhaps he was in want of it.  A pirate
     never acted thus towards a merchant.  About my papers I have a
     greater grievance, for he has so completely deprived me of them that
     I have never been able to obtain a single one from him; and those
     that would have been most useful in my exculpation are precisely
     those which he has kept most concealed.  Behold the just and honest
     inquisitor!  Whatever he may have done, they tell me that there has
     been an end to justice, except in an arbitrary form.  God, our Lord,
     is present with His strength and wisdom, as of old, and always
     punishes in the end, especially ingratitude and injuries."

