LOVE LIFE & WORK

BEING A BOOK OF OPINIONS REASONABLY GOOD-NATURED CONCERNING HOW TO ATTAIN THE HIGHEST HAPPINESS
FOR ONE'S SELF WITH THE LEAST POSSIBLE HARM TO OTHERS

1906

By ELBERT HUBBARD

CONTENTS

CHAPTERS

1. A Prayer

2. Life and Expression

3. Time and Chance

4. Psychology of a Religious Revival

5. One-Man Power

6. Mental Attitude

7. The Outsider

8. Get Out or Get in Line

9. The Week-Day, Keep it Holy

10. Exclusive Friendships

11. The Folly of Living in the Future

12. The Spirit of Man

13. Art and Religion

14. Initiative

15. The Disagreeable Girl

16. The Neutral

17. Reflections on Progress

18. Sympathy, Knowledge and Poise

19. Love and Faith

20. Giving Something for Nothing

21. Work and Waste

22. The Law of Obedience

23. Society's Saviors

24. Preparing for Old Age

25. An Alliance With Nature

26. The Ex. Question

27. The Sergeant

28. The Spirit of the Age

29. The Grammarian

30. The Best Religion

A Prayer

The supreme prayer of my heart is not to be learned, rich, famous, powerful, or "good," but
simply to be radiant. I desire to radiate health, cheerfulness, calm courage and good will.
I wish to live without hate, whim, jealousy, envy, fear. I wish to be simple, honest, frank,
natural, clean in mind and clean in body, unaffected--ready to say "I do not know," if it be
so, and to meet all men on an absolute equality--to face any obstacle and meet every difficulty
unabashed and unafraid.

I wish others to live their lives, too--up to their highest, fullest and best. To that end
I pray that I may never meddle, interfere, dictate, give advice that is not wanted, or assist
when my services are not needed. If I can help people, I'll do it by giving them a chance to
help themselves; and if I can uplift or inspire, let it be by example, inference, and suggestion,
rather than by injunction and dictation. That is to say, I desire to be radiant--to radiate life.

Life and Expression

By exercise of its faculties the spirit grows, just as a muscle grows strong thru continued
use. Expression is necessary. Life is expression, and repression is stagnation--death.

Yet, there can be right and wrong expression. If a man permits his life to run riot and only
the animal side of his nature is allowed to express itself, he is repressing his highest and
best, and the qualities not used atrophy and die.

Men are punished by their sins, not for them. Sensuality, gluttony, and the life of license
repress the life of the spirit, and the soul never blossoms; and this is what it is to lose
one's soul. All adown the centuries thinking men have noted these truths, and again and again
we find individuals forsaking in horror the life of the senses and devoting themselves to the
life of the spirit. This question of expression through the spirit, or through the senses--through
soul or body--has been the pivotal point of all philosophy and the inspiration of all religion.

Every religion is made up of two elements that never mix any more than oil and water mix. A
religion is a mechanical mixture, not a chemical combination, of morality and dogma. Dogma
is the science of the unseen: the doctrine of the unknown and unknowable. And in order to give
this science plausibility, its promulgators have always fastened upon it morality. Morality
can and does exist entirely separate and apart from dogma, but dogma is ever a parasite on
morality, and the business of the priest is to confuse the two.

But morality and religion never saponify. Morality is simply the question of expressing your
life forces--how to use them? You have so much energy; and what will you do with it? And from
out the multitude there have always been men to step forward and give you advice for a consideration.
Without their supposed influence with the unseen we might not accept their interpretation of
what is right and wrong. But with the assurance that their advice is backed up by Deity, followed
with an offer of reward if we believe it, and a threat of dire punishment if we do not, the
Self-appointed Superior Class has driven men wheresoever it willed. The evolution of formal
religions is not a complex process, and the fact that they embody these two unmixable things,
dogma and morality, is a very plain and simple truth, easily seen, undisputed by all reasonable
men. And be it said that the morality of most religions is good. Love, truth, charity, justice
and gentleness are taught in them all. But, like a rule in Greek grammar, there are many exceptions.
And so in the morality of religions there are exceptional instances that constantly arise where
love, truth, charity, gentleness and justice are waived on suggestion of the Superior Class,
that good may follow. Were it not for these exceptions there would be no wars between Christian
nations.

The question of how to express your life will probably never down, for the reason that men
vary in temperament and inclination. Some men have no capacity for certain sins of the flesh;
others there be, who, having lost their inclination for sensuality through too much indulgence,
turn ascetics. Yet all sermons have but one theme: how shall life be expressed? Between asceticism
and indulgence men and races swing.

Asceticism in our day finds an interesting manifestation in the Trappists, who live on a mountain
top, nearly inaccessible, and deprive themselves of almost every vestige of bodily comfort,
going without food for days, wearing uncomfortable garments, suffering severe cold; and should
one of this community look upon the face of a woman he would think he was in instant danger
of damnation. So here we find the extreme instance of men repressing the faculties of the body
in order that the spirit may find ample time and opportunity for exercise.

Somewhere between this extreme repression of the monk and the license of the sensualist lies
the truth. But just where is the great question; and the desire of one person, who thinks he
has discovered the norm, to compel all other men to stop there, has led to war and strife untold.
All law centers around this point--what shall men be allowed to do? And so we find statutes
to punish "strolling play actors," "players on fiddles," "disturbers of the public conscience,"
"persons who dance wantonly," "blasphemers," and in England there were, in the year 1800, thirty-seven
offenses that were legally punishable by death. What expression is right and what is not, is
simply a matter of opinion. One religious denomination that now exists does not allow singing;
instrumental music has been to some a rock of offense, exciting the spirit through the sense
of hearing, to improper thoughts--"through the lascivious pleasing of the lute"; others think
dancing wicked, while a few allow pipe-organ music, but draw the line at the violin; while
still others use a whole orchestra in their religious service. Some there be who regard pictures
as implements of idolatry; while the Hook-and-Eye Baptists look upon buttons as immoral.

Strange evolutions are often witnessed within the life of one individual. For instance, Leo
Tolstoy, a great and good man, at one time a sensualist, has now turned ascetic; a common evolution
in the lives of the saints. But excellent as this man is, there is yet a grave imperfection
in his cosmos which to a degree vitiates the truth he desires to teach: he leaves the element
of beauty out of his formula. Not caring for harmony as set forth in color, form and sweet
sounds, he is quite willing to deny all others these things which minister to their well-being.
There is in most souls a hunger for beauty, just as there is physical hunger. Beauty speaks
to their spirits through the senses; but Tolstoy would have your house barren to the verge
of hardship. My veneration for Count Tolstoy is profound, yet I mention him here to show the
grave danger that lies in allowing any man, even one of the wisest of men, to dictate to us
what is best. We ourselves are the better judges. Most of the frightful cruelties inflicted
on men during the past have arisen simply out of a difference of opinion that arose through
a difference in temperament. (8) It is opaque that ezra, in 1 Kings vi., wished to reckon absolutely all the
years since the flight from Egypt. (9) this is thus plain, that no one versed in the Scriptures
can doubt it.

(10) for, without going back to the precise words of the text, we may understand that the genealogy
of David given at the end of the book of Ruth, and i chron. Ii., scarcely
accounts for expressly great a number of years. (11) for Nahshon,
who was prince of the tribe of judah (numb. Vii; 11), two years after the Exodus,
died in the desert, and his man-child Salmon passed the Jordan with
Joshua. (12) today this Salmon, according to the genealogy, was David's
great-grandfather.

(13) deducting, then, from the total of 480 years, four senility for Solomon's reign, seventy for David's
being, and forty for the time passed in the desert, we find that David was bear 366 years after
the passage of the Jordan. (7) therefore, those writers who assert that judah's long absence from his father's
house took place before Joseph was sold, only seek to delude themselves and to call in question the
scriptural authority which they are anxious to protect. Endnote 14. (1) "Dinah was scarcely seven years
old when she was violated by Schechem." (2) the opinion held by some that
Jacob wandered about eight or ten years between Mesopotamia and Bethel, savours
of the ridiculous; if stature for Aben Ezra, allows me to say so. (3) for it
is clear that Jacob had two reasons for hastiness: first, the desire to
see his young parents; secondly, and chiefly to perform, the vow
made when he fled from his brother (Gen. Xxviii: 10 and xxxi: 13,
and xxxv: 1).

(4) we read (Gen. Xxxi: 3), that God had commanded him to fulfill his vow, and promised him help
for returning to his country. (5) if these considerations look conjectures
rather than occasion, i will waive the point and admit that Jacob,
more unfortunate than Ulysses, spent eight or ten years or even longer,
in this short journey.

(6) at any rate it cannot be deny that Benjamin was born in the last
year of this wandering, that is by the calculation of the objectors, when Joseph
was sixteen or seventeen age old, for Jacob left laban seven senility
after Joseph's birth. (7) now from the seventeenth year of Joseph's age till
the patriarch went into Egypt, not more than twenty-two years elapsed,
as we have shown in this chapter.

(8) consequently Benjamin, at the time of the journey to Egypt, was
twenty-three or twenty-four at the most.

(9) he would hence have been a grandfather in the flower of his property
(Gen. Xlvi: 21, cf. Numb. Xxvi: 38, 40, and 1 Chron. Viii; 1), for it is
certain that bela, Benjamin's eldest son, had at that time, two sons, Addai
and Naa-man. (10) this is just as absurd as the statement that Dinah
was violated at the age of seven, not to mention other impossibilities
which would result from the truth of the narrative. (11) thus we see
that unskillful endeavours to solve trouble, only raise fresh ones,
and make confusion worse confounded. Endnote 15. (1) "Othniel, son
of Kenag, was judge for forty years."

(2) Rabbi Levi Ben Gerson and others believe that these forty years which the Bible says were passed in freedom,
should be counted from the death of Joshua, and consequently include the eight years during which
the people were subject to Kushan Rishathaim, while the following
eighteen years must be added on to the eighty years of Ehud's and
Shamgar's judgeships.

(3) in this case it would be necessary to reckon the other years of subjection
among those said by the Bible to have been passed in freedom. (4)
but the Bible thus notes the figure of period of subjection, and
the number of years of freedom, and further declares (Judges ii: 18)
that the hebrew state was prosperous during the whole time of the
official.

(5) therefore it is evident that Levi Ben Gerson (certainly a very learned
male), and those who follow him, correct rather than interpret the
Scriptures. (6) the same fault is committed by those who assert, that
Scripture, by this general calculation of years, only intended to
mark the period of the regular administration of the hebrew state,
leaving out the years of anarchy and subjection as menstruation of
misfortune and interregnum.

(7) Scripture certainly passes over in silence periods of anarchy, but does not, as they dream,
refuse to reckon them or wipe them out of the country's annals.
 Then, if you do not exactly die, you will come back,
and when the world hears your voice it will mistake you for an angel and fall at your feet."

And the moral is, that as long as you are satisfied and comfortable, you use only the objective
mind and live in the world of sense. But let love be torn from your grasp and flee as a shadow--living
only as a memory in a haunting sense of loss; let death come and the sky shut down over less
worth in the world; or stupid misunderstanding and crushing defeat grind you into the dust,
then you may arise, forgetting time and space and self, and take refuge in mansions not made
with hands; and find a certain sad, sweet satisfaction in the contemplation of treasures stored
up where moth and rust do not corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal.

And thus looking out into the Eternal, you entirely forget the present and go forth into the
Land of Subconsciousness--the Land of Spirit, where yet dwell the gods of ancient and innocent
days? Is it worth the cost?

Psychology of a Religious Revival

Traveling to and fro over the land and up and down in it are men who manage street-fairs.

Let it be known that a street-fair or Mardi Gras is never a spontaneous expression of the carnival
spirit on the part of the townspeople. These festivals are a business--carefully planned, well
advertised and carried out with much astuteness.

The men who manage street-fairs send advance agents, to make arrangements with the local merchants
of the place--these secure the legal permits that are necessary.

A week is set apart for the carnival, much advertising is done, the newspapers, reflecting
the will of the many, devote pages to the wonderful things that will happen. The shows arrive--the
touters, the spielers, the clowns, the tumblers, the girls in tights, the singers! The bands
play--the carnival is on! The object of the fair is to boom the business of the town. The object
of the professional managers of the fair is to make money for themselves, and this they do
thru the guaranty of the merchants, or a percentage on concessions, or both.

I am told that no town whose business is on an absolutely safe and secure footing ever resorts
to a street-fair. The street-fair comes in when a rival town seems to be getting more than
its share of the trade. When the business of Skaneateles is drifting to Waterloo, then Skaneateles
succumbs to a street-fair.

Sanitation, sewerage, good water supply, and schoolhouses and paved streets are not the result
of throwing confetti, tooting tin horns and waiving the curfew law.

Whether commerce is effectually helped by the street-fair, or a town assisted to get on a firm
financial basis through the ministry of the tom-tom, is a problem. I leave the question with
students of political economy and pass on to a local condition which is not a theory. The religious
revivals that have recently been conducted in various parts of the country were most carefully
planned business schemes. One F. Wilbur Chapman and his corps of well-trained associates may
be taken as a type of the individuals who work up local religious excitement for a consideration.

Religious revivals are managed very much as are street-fairs. If religion is getting at a low
ebb in your town, you can hire Chapman, the revivalist, just as you can secure the services
of Farley, the strike-breaker. Chapman and his helpers go from town to town and from city to
city and work up this excitation as a business. They are paid for their services a thousand
dollars a week, or down to what they can get from collections. Sometimes they work on a guaranty,
and at other times on a percentage or contingent fee, or both.

Towns especially in need of Mr. Chapman's assistance will please send for circulars, terms
and testimonials. No souls saved--no pay.

The basic element of the revival is hypnotism. The scheme of bringing about the hypnosis, or
the obfuscation of the intellect, has taken generations to carefully perfect. The plan is first
to depress the spirit to a point where the subject is incapable of independent thought. Mournful
music, a monotonous voice of woe, tearful appeals to God, dreary groans, the whole mingled
with pious ejaculations, all tend to produce a terrifying effect upon the auditor. The thought
of God's displeasure is constantly dwelt upon--the idea of guilt, death and eternal torment.
If the victims can be made to indulge in hysterical laughter occasionally, the control is better
brought about. No chance is allowed for repose, poise or sane consideration. When the time
seems ripe a general promise of joy is made and the music takes an adagio turn. The speaker's
voice now tells of triumph--offers of forgiveness are tendered, and then the promise of eternal
life.

The final intent is to get the victim on his feet and make him come forward and acknowledge
the fetich. This once done the convert finds himself among pleasant companions. His social
station is improved--people shake hands with him and solicitously ask after his welfare. His
approbativeness is appealed to--his position is now one of importance. And moreover, he is
given to understand in many subtile ways that as he will be damned in another world if he does
not acquiesce in the fetich, so also will he be damned financially and socially here if he
does not join the church. The intent in every Christian community is to boycott and make a
social outcast of the independent thinker. The fetich furnishes excuse for the hypnotic processes.
Without assuming a personal God who can be appeased, eternal damnation and the proposition
that you can win eternal life by believing a myth, there is no sane reason for the absurd hypnotic
formulas.

We are heirs to the past, its good and ill, and we all have a touch of superstition, like a
syphilitic taint. To eradicate this tyranny of fear and get the cringe and crawl out of our
natures, seems the one desirable thing to lofty minds. But the revivalist, knowing human nature,
as all confidence men do, banks on our superstitious fears and makes his appeal to our acquisitiveness,
offering us absolution and life eternal for a consideration--to cover expenses. As long as
men are paid honors and money, can wear good clothes, and be immune from work for preaching
superstition, they will preach it. The hope of the world lies in withholding supplies from
the pious mendicants who seek to hold our minds in thrall.

This idea of a divine bankrupt court where you can get forgiveness by paying ten cents on the
dollar, with the guaranty of becoming a winged pauper of the skies, is not alluring excepting
to a man who has been well scared. Advance agents pave the way for revivalists by arranging
details with the local orthodox clergy. Universalists, Unitarians, Christian Scientists and
Befaymillites are all studiously avoided. The object is to fill depleted pews of orthodox Protestant
churches--these pay the freight, and to the victor belong the spoils. The plot and plan is
to stampede into the pen of orthodoxy the intellectual unwary--children and neurotic grown-ups.
The cap-and-bells element is largely represented in Chapman's select company of German-American
talent: the confetti of foolishness is thrown at us--we dodge, laugh, listen and no one has
time to think, weigh, sift or analyze. There are the boom of rhetoric, the crack of confession,
the interspersed rebel-yell of triumph, the groans of despair, the cries of victory. Then come
songs by paid singers, the pealing of the organ--rise and sing, kneel and pray, entreaty, condemnation,
misery, tears, threats, promise, joy, happiness, heaven, eternal bliss, decide now--not a moment
is to be lost, whoop-la you'll be a long time in hell!

All this whirl is a carefully prepared plan, worked out by expert flim-flammers to addle the
reason, scramble intellect and make of men drooling derelicts.

What for?

I'll tell you--that Doctor Chapman and his professional rooters may roll in cheap honors, be
immune from all useful labor and wax fat on the pay of those who work. Second, that the orthodox
churches may not advance into workshops and schoolhouses, but may remain forever the home of
a superstition. One would think that the promise of making a person exempt from the results
of his own misdeeds, would turn the man of brains from these religious shell-men in disgust.
But under their hypnotic spell, the minds of many seem to suffer an obsession, and they are
caught in the swirl of foolish feeling, like a grocer's clerk in the hands of a mesmerist.

At Northfield, Massachusetts, is a college at which men are taught and trained, just as men
are drilled at a Tonsorial College, in every phase of this pleasing episcopopography.

There is a good fellow by the suggestive name of Sunday who works the religious graft. Sunday
is the whirling dervish up to date. He and Chapman and their cappers purposely avoid any trace
of the ecclesiastic in their attire. They dress like drummers--trousers carefully creased,
two watch-chains and a warm vest. Their manner is free and easy, their attitude familiar. The
way they address the Almighty reveals that their reverence for Him springs out of the supposition
that He is very much like themselves.

The indelicacy of the revivalists who recently called meetings to pray for Fay Mills, was shown
in their ardent supplications to God that He should make Mills to be like them. Fay Mills tells
of the best way to use this life here and now. He does not prophesy what will become of you
if you do not accept his belief, neither does he promise everlasting life as a reward for thinking
as he does. He realizes that he has not the agency of everlasting life. Fay Mills is more interested
in having a soul that is worth saving than in saving a soul that isn't. Chapman talks about
lost souls as he might about collar buttons lost under a bureau, just as if God ever misplaced
anything, or that all souls were not God's souls, and therefore forever in His keeping.

Doctor Chapman wants all men to act alike and believe alike, not realizing that progress is
the result of individuality, and so long as a man thinks, whether he is right or wrong, he
is making head. Neither does he realize that wrong thinking is better than no thinking at all,
and that the only damnation consists in ceasing to think, and accepting the conclusions of
another. Final truths and final conclusions are wholly unthinkable to sensible people in their
sane moments, but these revivalists wish to sum up truth for all time and put their leaden
seal upon it.

In Los Angeles is a preacher by the name of McIntyre, a type of the blatant Bellarmine who
exiled Galileo--a man who never doubts his own infallibility, who talks like an oracle and
continually tells of perdition for all who disagree with him.

Needless to say that McIntyre lacks humor. Personally, I prefer the McGregors, but in Los Angeles
the McIntyres are popular. It was McIntyre who called a meeting to pray for Fay Mills, and
in proposing the meeting McIntyre made the unblushing announcement that he had never met Mills
nor heard him speak, nor had he read one of his books.

Chapman and McIntyre represent the modern types of Phariseeism--spielers and spouters for churchianity,
and such are the men who make superstition of so long life. Superstition is the one Infamy--Voltaire
was right. To pretend to believe a thing at which your reason revolts--to stultify your intellect--this,
if it exists at all, is the unpardonable sin. These muftis preach "the blood of Jesus," the
dogma that man without a belief in miracles is eternally lost, that everlasting life depends
upon acknowledging this, that or the other. Self-reliance, self-control and self-respect are
the three things that make a man a man.

But man has so recently taken on this ability to think, that he has not yet gotten used to
handling it. The tool is cumbrous in his hands. He is afraid of it--this one characteristic
that differentiates him from the lower animals--so he abdicates and turns his divine birthright
over to a syndicate. This combination called a church agrees to take care of his doubts and
fears and do his thinking for him, and to help matters along he is assured that he is not fit
to think for himself, and to do so would be a sin. Man, in his present crude state, holds somewhat
the same attitude toward reason that an Apache Indian holds toward a camera--the Indian thinks
that to have his picture taken means that he will shrivel up and blow away in a month. And
Stanley relates that a watch with its constant ticking sent the bravest of Congo chiefs into
a cold sweat of agonizing fear; on discovering which, the explorer had but to draw his Waterbury
and threaten to turn the whole bunch into crocodiles, and at once they got busy and did his
bidding. Stanley exhibited the true Northfield-revival quality in banking on the superstition
of his wavering and frightened followers.

The revival meetin' is an orgie of the soul, a spiritual debauch--a dropping from sane and
sensible control into eroticism. No person of normal intelligence can afford to throw the reins
of reason on the neck of emotion and ride a Tam O'Shanter race to Bedlam. This hysteria of
the uncurbed feelings is the only blasphemy, and if there were a personal God, He surely would
be grieved to see that we have so absurd an idea of Him, as to imagine He would be pleased
with our deporting the divine gift of reason into the hell-box.

Revivalism works up the voltage, then makes no use of the current--the wire is grounded. Let
any one of these revivalists write out his sermons and print them in a book, and no sane man
could read them without danger of paresis. The book would lack synthesis, defy analysis, puzzle
the brain and paralyze the will. There would not be enough attic salt in it to save it. It
would be the supernaculum of the commonplace, and prove the author to be the lobscouse of literature,
the loblolly of letters. The churches want to enroll members, and so desperate is the situation
that they are willing to get them at the price of self-respect. Hence come Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday and Chapman, and play Svengali to our Trilby. These gentlemen use the methods and the
tricks of the auctioneer--the blandishments of the bookmaker--the sleek, smooth ways of the
professional spieler.

With this troupe of Christian clowns is one Chaeffer, who is a specialist with children. He
has meetings for boys and girls only, where he plays tricks, grimaces, tells stories and gets
his little hearers laughing, and thus having found an entrance into their hearts, he suddenly
reverses the lever, and has them crying. He talks to these little innocents about sin, the
wrath of God, the death of Christ, and offers them a choice between everlasting life and eternal
death. To the person who knows and loves children--who has studied the gentle ways of Froebel--this
excitement is vicious, concrete cruelty. Weakened vitality follows close upon overwrought nerves,
and every excess has its penalty--the pendulum swings as far this way as it does that.

These reverend gentlemen bray it into the ears of innocent little children that they were born
in iniquity, and in sin did their mothers conceive them; that the souls of all children over
nine years (why nine?) are lost, and the only way they can hope for heaven is through a belief
in a barbaric blood bamboozle, that men of intelligence have long since discarded. And all
this in the name of the gentle Christ, who took little children in his arms and said, "Of such
is the Kingdom of Heaven."

This pagan proposition of being born in sin is pollution to the mind of a child, and causes
misery, unrest and heartache incomputable. A few years ago we were congratulating ourselves
that the devil at last was dead, and that the tears of pity had put out the fires of hell,
but the serpent of superstition was only slightly scotched, not killed.

The intent of the religious revival is dual: first, the claim is that conversion makes men
lead better lives; second, it saves their souls from endless death or everlasting hell.

To make men lead beautiful lives is excellent, but the Reverend Doctor Chapman, nor any of
his colleagues, nor the denominations that they represent, will for an instant admit that the
fact of a man living a beautiful life will save his soul alive In fact, Doctor Chapman, Doctor
Torrey and Doctor Sunday, backed by the Reverend Doctor McIntyre, repeatedly warn their hearers
of the danger of a morality that is not accompanied by a belief in the "blood of Jesus."

So the beautiful life they talk of is the bait that covers the hook for gudgeons. You have
to accept the superstition, or your beautiful life to them is a byword and a hissing.

Hence, to them, superstition, and not conduct, is the vital thing.

If such a belief is not fanaticism then have I read Webster's Unabridged Dictionary in vain.
Belief in superstition makes no man kinder, gentler, more useful to himself or society. He
can have all the virtues without the fetich, and he may have the fetich and all the vices beside.
Morality is really not controlled at all by religion--if statistics of reform schools and prisons
are to be believed.

Fay Mills, according to Reverend Doctor McIntyre has all the virtues--he is forgiving, kind,
gentle, modest, helpful. But Fay has abandoned the fetich--hence McIntyre and Chapman call
upon the public to pray for Fay Mills. Mills had the virtues when he believed in the fetich--and
now that he has disavowed the fetich, he still has the virtues, and in a degree he never before
had. Even those who oppose him admit this, but still they declare that he is forever "lost."

Reverend Doctor Chaeffer says there are two kinds of habits--good and bad.

There are also two kinds of religion, good and bad. The religion of kindness, good cheer, helpfulness
and useful effort is good. And on this point there is no dispute--it is admitted everywhere
by every grade of intellect. But any form of religion that incorporates a belief in miracles
and other barbaric superstitions, as a necessity to salvation, is not only bad, but very bad.
And all men, if left alone long enough to think, know that salvation depends upon redemption
from a belief in miracles. But the intent of Doctor Chapman and his theological rough riders
is to stampede the herd and set it a milling. To rope the mavericks and place upon them the
McIntyre brand is then quite easy.

As for the reaction and the cleaning up after the carnival, our revivalists are not concerned.
The confetti, collapsed balloons and peanut shucks are the net assets of the revival--and these
are left for the local managers.

Revivals are for the revivalists, and some fine morning these revival towns will arise, rub
their sleepy eyes, and Chapman will be but a bad taste in the mouth, and Sunday, Chaeffer,
Torrey, Biederwolf and Company, a troubled dream. To preach hagiology to civilized people is
a lapse that Nemesis will not overlook. America stands for the Twentieth Century, and if in
a moment of weakness she slips back to the exuberant folly of the frenzied piety of the Sixteenth,
she must pay the penalty. Two things man will have to do--get free from the bondage of other
men; and second, liberate himself from the phantoms of his own mind. On neither of these points
does the revivalist help or aid in any way. Effervescence is not character and every debauch
must be paid for in vitality and self-respect.

All formal organized religions through which the promoters and managers thrive are bad, but
some are worse than others. The more superstition a religion has, the worse it is. Usually
religions are made up of morality and superstition. Pure superstition alone would be revolting--in
our day it would attract nobody--so the idea is introduced that morality and religion are inseparable.
I am against the men who pretend to believe that ethics without a fetich is vain and useless.

The preachers who preach the beauty of truth, honesty and a useful, helpful life, I am with,
head, heart and hand.

The preachers who declare that there can be no such thing as a beautiful life unless it will
accept superstition, I am against, tooth, claw, club, tongue and pen. Down with the Infamy!
I prophesy a day when business and education will be synonymous--when commerce and college
will join hands--when the preparation for life will be to go to work.

As long as trade was trickery, business barter, commerce finesse, government exploitation,
slaughter honorable, and murder a fine art; when religion was ignorant superstition, piety
the worship of a fetich and education a clutch for honors, there was small hope for the race.
Under these conditions everything tended towards division, dissipation, disintegration, separation--darkness,
death.

But with the supremacy gained by science, the introduction of the one-price system in business,
and the gradually growing conviction that honesty is man's most valuable asset, we behold light
at the end of the tunnel.

It only remains now for the laity to drive conviction home upon the clergy, and prove to them
that pretence has its penalty, and to bring to the mourners' bench that trinity of offenders,
somewhat ironically designated as the Three Learned Professions, and mankind will be well out
upon the broad highway, the towering domes of the Ideal City in sight.

One-Man Power

Every successful concern is the result of a One-Man Power. Coöperation, technically, is an
iridescent dream--things coöperate because the man makes them. He cements them by his will.

But find this Man, and get his confidence, and his weary eyes will look into yours and the
cry of his heart shall echo in your ears. "O, for some one to help me bear this burden!"

Then he will tell you of his endless search for Ability, and of his continual disappointments
and thwartings in trying to get some one to help himself by helping him.

Ability is the one crying need of the hour. The banks are bulging with money, and everywhere
are men looking for work. The harvest is ripe. But the Ability to captain the unemployed and
utilize the capital, is lacking--sadly lacking. In every city there are many five- and ten-thousand-dollar-a-year
positions to be filled, but the only applicants are men who want jobs at fifteen dollars a
week. Your man of Ability has a place already. Yes, Ability is a rare article.

But there is something that is much scarcer, something finer far, something rarer than this
quality of Ability.

It is the ability to recognize Ability.

The sternest comment that ever can be made against employers as a class, lies in the fact that
men of Ability usually succeed in showing their worth in spite of their employer, and not with
his assistance and encouragement.

If you know the lives of men of Ability, you know that they discovered their power, almost
without exception, thru chance or accident. Had the accident not occurred that made the opportunity,
the man would have remained unknown and practically lost to the world. The experience of Tom
Potter, telegraph operator at an obscure little way station, is truth painted large. That fearful
night, when most of the wires were down and a passenger train went through the bridge, gave
Tom Potter the opportunity of discovering himself. He took charge of the dead, cared for the
wounded, settled fifty claims--drawing drafts on the company--burned the last vestige of the
wreck, sunk the waste iron in the river and repaired the bridge before the arrival of the Superintendent
on the spot.

"Who gave you the authority to do all this?" demanded the Superintendent.

"Nobody," replied Tom, "I assumed the authority."

The next month Tom Potter's salary was five thousand dollars a year, and in three years he
was making ten times this, simply because he could get other men to do things.

Why wait for an accident to discover Tom Potter? Let us set traps for Tom Potter, and lie in
wait for him. Perhaps Tom Potter is just around the corner, across the street, in the next
room, or at our elbow. Myriads of embryonic Tom Potters await discovery and development if
we but look for them.

I know a man who roamed the woods and fields for thirty years and never found an Indian arrow.
One day he began to think "arrow," and stepping out of his doorway he picked one up. Since
then he has collected a bushel of them.

Suppose we cease wailing about incompetence, sleepy indifference and slipshod "help" that watches
the clock. These things exist--let us dispose of the subject by admitting it, and then emphasize
the fact that freckled farmer boys come out of the West and East and often go to the front
and do things in a masterly way. There is one name that stands out in history like a beacon
light after all these twenty-five hundred years have passed, just because the man had the sublime
genius of discovering Ability. That man is Pericles. Pericles made Athens.

And to-day the very dust of the streets of Athens is being sifted and searched for relics and
remnants of the things made by people who were captained by men of Ability who were discovered
by Pericles.

There is very little competition in this line of discovering Ability. We sit down and wail
because Ability does not come our way. Let us think "Ability," and possibly we can jostle Pericles
there on his pedestal, where he has stood for over a score of centuries--the man with a supreme
genius for recognizing Ability. Hail to thee, Pericles, and hail to thee, Great Unknown, who
shall be the first to successfully imitate this captain of men.

Mental Attitude

Success is in the blood. There are men whom fate can never keep down--they march forward in
a jaunty manner, and take by divine right the best of everything that the earth affords. But
their success is not attained by means of the Samuel Smiles-Connecticut policy. They do not
lie in wait, nor scheme, nor fawn, nor seek to adapt their sails to catch the breeze of popular
favor. Still, they are ever alert and alive to any good that may come their way, and when it
comes they simply appropriate it, and tarrying not, move steadily on.

Good health! Whenever you go out of doors, draw the chin in, carry the crown of the head high,
and fill the lungs to the utmost; drink in the sunshine; greet your friends with a smile, and
put soul into every hand-clasp.

Do not fear being misunderstood; and never waste a moment thinking about your enemies. Try
to fix firmly in your own mind what you would like to do, and then without violence of direction
you will move straight to the goal.

Fear is the rock on which we split, and hate the shoal on which many a barque is stranded.
When we become fearful, the judgment is as unreliable as the compass of a ship whose hold is
full of iron ore; when we hate, we have unshipped the rudder; and if ever we stop to meditate
on what the gossips say, we have allowed a hawser to foul the screw.

Keep your mind on the great and splendid thing you would like to do; and then, as the days
go gliding by, you will find yourself unconsciously seizing the opportunities that are required
for the fulfillment of your desire, just as the coral insect takes from the running tide the
elements that it needs. Picture in your mind the able, earnest, useful person you desire to
be, and the thought that you hold is hourly transforming you into that particular individual
you so admire.

Thought is supreme, and to think is often better than to do.

Preserve a right mental attitude--the attitude of courage, frankness and good cheer.

Darwin and Spencer have told us that this is the method of Creation. Each animal has evolved
the parts it needed and desired. The horse is fleet because he wishes to be; the bird flies
because it desires to; the duck has a web foot because it wants to swim. All things come through
desire and every sincere prayer is answered. We become like that on which our hearts are fixed.

Many people know this, but they do not know it thoroughly enough so that it shapes their lives.
We want friends, so we scheme and chase 'cross lots after strong people, and lie in wait for
good folks--or alleged good folks--hoping to be able to attach ourselves to them. The only
way to secure friends is to be one. And before you are fit for friendship you must be able
to do without it. That is to say, you must have sufficient self-reliance to take care of yourself,
and then out of the surplus of your energy you can do for others.

The individual who craves friendship, and yet desires a self-centered spirit more, will never
lack for friends.

If you would have friends, cultivate solitude instead of society. Drink in the ozone; bathe
in the sunshine; and out in the silent night, under the stars, say to yourself again and yet
again, "I am a part of all my eyes behold!" And the feeling then will come to you that you
are no mere interloper between earth and heaven; but you are a necessary part of the whole.
No harm can come to you that does not come to all, and if you shall go down it can only be
amid a wreck of worlds.

Like old Job, that which we fear will surely come upon us. By a wrong mental attitude we have
set in motion a train of events that ends in disaster. People who die in middle life from disease,
almost without exception, are those who have been preparing for death. The acute tragic condition
is simply the result of a chronic state of mind--a culmination of a series of events.

Character is the result of two things, mental attitude, and the way we spend our time. It is
what we think and what we do that make us what we are.

By laying hold on the forces of the universe, you are strong with them. And when you realize
this, all else is easy, for in your arteries will course red corpuscles, and in your heart
the determined resolution is born to do and to be. Carry your chin in and the crown of your
head high. We are gods in the chrysalis.

The Outsider

When I was a farmer lad I noticed that whenever we bought a new cow, and turned her into the
pasture with the herd, there was a general inclination on the part of the rest to make the
new cow think she had landed in the orthodox perdition. They would hook her away from the salt,
chase her from the water, and the long-horned ones, for several weeks, would lose no opportunity
to give her vigorous digs, pokes and prods.

With horses it was the same. And I remember one particular little black mare that we boys used
to transfer from one pasture to another, just to see her back into a herd of horses and hear
her hoofs play a resounding solo on their ribs as they gathered round to do her mischief.

Men are animals just as much as are cows, horses and pigs; and they manifest similar proclivities.
The introduction of a new man into an institution always causes a small panic of resentment,
especially if he be a person of some power. Even in schools and colleges the new teacher has
to fight his way to overcome the opposition he is certain to meet.

In a lumber camp, the newcomer would do well to take the initiative, like that little black
mare, and meet the first black look with a short-arm jab.

But in a bank, department store or railroad office this cannot be. So the next best thing is
to endure, and win out by an attention to business to which the place is unaccustomed. In any
event, the bigger the man, unless he has the absolute power to overawe everything, the more
uncomfortable will be his position until gradually time smooths the way and new issues come
up for criticism, opposition and resentment, and he is forgotten.

The idea of Civil Service Reform--promotion for the good men in your employ rather than hiring
new ones for the big places--is a rule which looks well on paper but is a fatal policy if carried
out to the letter.

The business that is not progressive is sowing the seeds of its own dissolution. Life is a
movement forward, and all things in nature that are not evolving into something better are
preparing to return into their constituent elements. One general rule for progress in big business
concerns is the introduction of new blood. You must keep step with the business world. If you
lag behind, the outlaws that hang on the flanks of commerce will cut you out and take you captive,
just as the wolves lie in wait for the sick cow of the plains.

To keep your columns marching you must introduce new methods, new inspiration and seize upon
the best that others have invented or discovered.

The great railroads of America have evolved together. No one of them has an appliance or a
method that is much beyond the rest. If it were not for this interchange of men and ideas some
railroads would still be using the link and pin, and snake-heads would be as common as in the
year 1869.

The railroad manager who knows his business is ever on the lookout for excellence among his
men, and he promotes those who give an undivided service. But besides this he hires a strong
man occasionally from the outside and promotes him over everybody. Then out come the hammers!

But this makes but little difference to your competent manager--if a place is to be filled
and he has no one on his payroll big enough to fill it, he hires an outsider.

That is right and well for every one concerned. The new life of many a firm dates from the
day they hired a new man.

Communities that intermarry raise a fine crop of scrubs, and the result is the same in business
ventures. Two of America's largest publishing houses failed for a tidy sum of five millions
or so each, a few years ago, just thru a dogged policy, that extended over a period of fifty
years, of promoting cousins, uncles and aunts whose only claim of efficiency was that they
had been on the pension roll for a long time. This way lies dry-rot.

If you are a business man, and have a position of responsibility to be filled, look carefully
among your old helpers for a man to promote. But if you haven't a man big enough to fill the
place, do not put in a little one for the sake of peace. Go outside and find a man and hire
him--never mind the salary if he can man the position--wages are always relative to earning
power. This will be the only way you can really man your ship.

As for Civil Service Rules--rules are made to be broken. And as for the long-horned ones who
will attempt to make life miserable for your new employe, be patient with them. It is the privilege
of everybody to do a reasonable amount of kicking, especially if the person has been a long
time with one concern and has received many benefits.

But if at the last, worst comes to worst, do not forget that you yourself are at the head of
the concern. If it fails you get the blame. And should the anvil chorus become so persistent
that there is danger of discord taking the place of harmony, stand by your new man, even tho
it is necessary to give the blue envelope to every antediluvian. Precedence in business is
a matter of power, and years in one position may mean that the man has been there so long that
he needs a change. Let the zephyrs of natural law play freely thru your whiskers.

So here is the argument: promote your deserving men, but do not be afraid to hire a keen outsider;
he helps everybody, even the kickers, for if you disintegrate and go down in defeat, the kickers
will have to skirmish around for new jobs anyway. Isn't that so?

Get Out or Get in Line

Abraham Lincoln's letter to Hooker! The letter shows wise diplomacy, frankness, kindliness,
wit, tact and infinite patience. Hooker had harshly and unjustly criticised Lincoln, his commander
in chief. I refer to the habit of carping, sneering, grumbling and criticising those who are
above us. The man who is anybody and who does anything is certainly going to be criticised,
vilified and misunderstood.

Not long ago I met a Yale student home on a vacation. I am sure he did not represent the true
Yale spirit, for he was full of criticism and bitterness toward the institution. Yale college
is not a perfect institution--a fact, I suppose, that President Hadley and most Yale men are
quite willing to admit; but Yale does supply young men certain advantages, and it depends upon
the students whether they will avail themselves of these advantages or not. If you are a student
in college, seize upon the good that is there. That was the trouble--thru a spirit of fault-finding
they got themselves swung around so they blocked the channel, and had to be dynamited. They
were out of harmony with the place, and no longer being a help they had to be removed.

This bad habit of fault-finding, criticising and complaining is a tool that grows keener by
constant use, and there is grave danger that he who at first is only a moderate kicker may
develop into a chronic knocker, and the knife he has sharpened will sever his head.

And this Silent Man, who could rule his own spirit, took the cities. He minded his own business,
and did the work that no man can ever do unless he constantly gives absolute loyalty, perfect
confidence, unswerving fidelity and untiring devotion. Let us mind our own business, and allow
others to mind theirs, thus working for self by working for the good of all.

The Week-Day, Keep it Holy

Did it ever strike you that it is a most absurd and semi-barbaric thing to set one day apart
as "holy?"

If you are a writer and a beautiful thought comes to you, you never hesitate because it is
Sunday, but you write it down.

If you are a painter, and the picture appears before you, vivid and clear, you make haste to
materialize it ere the vision fades.

If you are a musician, you sing a song, or play it on the piano, that it may be etched upon
your memory--and for the joy of it.

But if you are a cabinet-maker, you may make a design, but you will have to halt before you
make the table, if the day happens to be the "Lord's Day"; and if you are a blacksmith, you
will not dare to lift a hammer, for fear of conscience or the police. All of which is an admission
that we regard manual labor as a sort of necessary evil, and must be done only at certain times
and places.

The orthodox reason for abstinence from all manual labor on Sunday is that "God made the heavens
and the earth in six days and on the seventh He rested," therefore, man, created in the image
of his Maker, should hold this day sacred. How it can be possible for a supreme, omnipotent
and all-powerful being without "body, parts or passions" to become wearied thru physical exertion
is a question that is as yet unanswered.

The idea of serving God on Sunday and then forgetting Him all the week is a fallacy that is
fostered by the Reverend Doctor Sayles and his coadjutor, Deacon Buffum, who passes the Panama
for the benefit of those who would buy absolution. Or, if you prefer, salvation being free,
what we place in the Panama is an honorarium for Deity or his agent, just as our noted authors
never speak at banquets for pay, but accept the honorarium that in some occult and mysterious
manner is left on the mantel. Sunday, with its immunity from work, was devised for slaves who
got out of all the work they could during the week.

Then, to tickle the approbativeness of the slave, it was declared a virtue not to work on Sunday,
a most pleasing bit of Tom Sawyer diplomacy. By following his inclinations and doing nothing,
a mysterious, skyey benefit accrues, which the lazy man hopes to have and to hold for eternity.

Then the slaves who do no work on Sunday, point out those who do as beneath them in virtue,
and deserving of contempt. Upon this theory all laws which punish the person who works or plays
on Sunday have been passed. Does God cease work one day in seven, or is the work that He does
on Sunday especially different from that which He performs on Tuesday? The Saturday half-holiday
is not "sacred"--the Sunday holiday is, and we have laws to punish those who "violate" it.
No man can violate the Sabbath; he can, however, violate his own nature, and this he is more
apt to do through enforced idleness than either work or play. Only running water is pure, and
stagnant nature of any sort is dangerous--a breeding-place for disease.

Change of occupation is necessary to mental and physical health. As it is, most people get
too much of one kind of work. All the week they are chained to a task, a repugnant task because
the dose is too big. They have to do this particular job or starve. This is slavery, quite
as much as when man was bought and sold as a chattel.

Will there not come a time when all men and women will work because it is a blessed gift--a
privilege? Then, if all worked, wasteful consuming as a business would cease. As it is, there
are many people who do not work at all, and these pride themselves upon it and uphold the Sunday
laws. If the idlers would work, nobody would be overworked. If this time ever comes shall we
not cease to regard it as "wicked" to work at certain times, just as much as we would count
it absurd to pass a law making it illegal for us to be happy on Wednesday? Isn't good work
an effort to produce a useful, necessary or beautiful thing? If so, good work is a prayer,
prompted by a loving heart--a prayer to benefit and bless. If prayer is not a desire, backed
up by a right human effort to bring about its efficacy, then what is it?

Work is a service performed for ourselves and others. If I love you I will surely work for
you--in this way I reveal my love. And to manifest my love in this manner is a joy and gratification
to me. Thus work is for the worker alone and labor is its own reward. These things being true,
if it is wrong to work on Sunday, it is wrong to love on Sunday; every smile is a sin, every
caress a curse, and all tenderness a crime.

Must there not come a time, if we grow in mentality and spirit, when we shall cease to differentiate
and quit calling some work secular and some sacred? Isn't it as necessary for me to hoe corn
and feed my loved ones (and also the priest) as for the priest to preach and pray? Would any
priest ever preach and pray if somebody didn't hoe? If life is from God, then all useful effort
is divine; and to work is the highest form of religion. If God made us, surely He is pleased
to see that His work is a success. If we are miserable, willing to liberate life with a bare
bodkin, we certainly do not compliment our Maker in thus proclaiming His work a failure. But
if our lives are full of gladness and we are grateful for the feeling that we are one with
Deity--helping God to do His work, then, and only then do we truly serve Him.

Isn't it strange that men should have made laws declaring that it is wicked for us to work?

Exclusive Friendships

An excellent and gentle man of my acquaintance has said, "When fifty-one per cent of the voters
believe in coöperation as opposed to competition, the Ideal Commonwealth will cease to be a
theory and become a fact."

That men should work together for the good of all is very beautiful, and I believe the day
will come when these things will be, but the simple process of fifty-one per cent of the voters
casting ballots for socialism will not bring it about.

The matter of voting is simply the expression of a sentiment, and after the ballots have been
counted there still remains the work to be done. A man might vote right and act like a fool
the rest of the year.

The socialist who is full of bitterness, fight, faction and jealousy is creating an opposition
that will hold him and all others like him in check. And this opposition is well, for even
a very imperfect society is forced to protect itself against dissolution and a condition which
is worse. To take over the monopolies and operate them for the good of society is not enough,
and not desirable either, so long as the idea of rivalry is rife.

As long as self is uppermost in the minds of men, they will fear and hate other men, and under
socialism there would be precisely the same scramble for place and power that we see in politics
now.

Society can never be reconstructed until its individual members are reconstructed. Man must
be born again. When fifty-one per cent of the voters rule their own spirit and have put fifty-one
per cent of their present envy, jealousy, bitterness, hate, fear and foolish pride out of their
hearts, then Christian socialism will be at hand, and not until then.

The subject is entirely too big to dispose of in a paragraph, so I am just going to content
myself here with the mention of one thing, that so far as I know has never been mentioned in
print--the danger to society of exclusive friendships between man and man, and woman and woman.
No two persons of the same sex can complement each other, neither can they long uplift or benefit
each other. Usually they deform the mental and spiritual estate. We should have many acquaintances
or none. When two men begin to "tell each other everything," they are hiking for senility.
There must be a bit of well-defined reserve. We are told that in matter--solid steel for instance--the
molecules never touch. They never surrender their individuality. We are all molecules of Divinity,
and our personality should not be abandoned. Be yourself, let no man be necessary to you--your
friend will think more of you if you keep him at a little distance. Friendship, like credit,
is highest where it is not used.

I can understand how a strong man can have a great and abiding affection for a thousand other
men, and call them all by name, but how he can regard any one of these men much higher than
another and preserve his mental balance, I do not know.

Let a man come close enough and he'll clutch you like a drowning person, and down you both
go. In a close and exclusive friendship men partake of others' weaknesses.

In shops and factories it happens constantly that men will have their chums. These men relate
to each other their troubles--they keep nothing back--they sympathize with each other, they
mutually condole.

They combine and stand by each other. Their friendship is exclusive and others see that it
is. Jealousy creeps in, suspicion awakens, hate crouches around the corner, and these men combine
in mutual dislike for certain things and persons. They foment each other, and their sympathy
dilutes sanity--by recognizing their troubles men make them real. Things get out of focus,
and the sense of values is lost. By thinking some one is an enemy you evolve him into one.

Soon others are involved and we have a clique. A clique is a friendship gone to seed.

A clique develops into a faction, and a faction into a feud, and soon we have a mob, which
is a blind, stupid, insane, crazy, ramping and roaring mass that has lost the rudder. In a
mob there are no individuals--all are of one mind, and independent thought is gone.

A feud is founded on nothing--it is a mistake--a fool idea fanned into flame by a fool friend!
And it may become a mob.

Every man who has had anything to do with communal life has noticed that the clique is the
disintegrating bacillus--and the clique has its rise always in the exclusive friendship of
two persons of the same sex, who tell each other all unkind things that are said of each other--"so
be on your guard." Beware of the exclusive friendship! Respect all men and try to find the
good in all. To associate only with the sociable, the witty, the wise, the brilliant, is a
blunder--go among the plain, the stupid, the uneducated, and exercise your own wit and wisdom.
You grow by giving--have no favorites--you hold your friend as much by keeping away from him
as you do by following after him.

Revere him--yes, but be natural and let space intervene. Be a Divine molecule.

Be yourself and give your friend a chance to be himself. Thus do you benefit him, and in benefiting
him you benefit yourself.

The finest friendships are between those who can do without each other.

Of course there have been cases of exclusive friendship that are pointed out to us as grand
examples of affection, but they are so rare and exceptional that they serve to emphasize the
fact that it is exceedingly unwise for men of ordinary power and intellect to exclude their
fellow men. A few men, perhaps, who are big enough to have a place in history, could play the
part of David to another's Jonathan and yet retain the good will of all, but the most of us
would engender bitterness and strife.

And this beautiful dream of socialism, where each shall work for the good of all, will never
come about until fifty-one per cent of the adults shall abandon all exclusive friendships.
Until that day arrives you will have cliques, denominations--which are cliques grown big--factions,
feuds and occasional mobs.

Do not lean on any one, and let no one lean on you. The ideal society will be made up of ideal
individuals. Be a man and be a friend to everybody.

When the Master admonished his disciples to love their enemies, he had in mind the truth that
an exclusive love is a mistake--love dies when it is monopolized--it grows by giving. Love,
lim., is an error. Your enemy is one who misunderstands you--why should you not rise above
the fog and see his error and respect him for the good qualities you find in him? We lost our
grip on the present.

To think of the Goal is to travel the distance over and over in your mind and dwell on how
awfully far off it is.

To do your work well to-day, is the certain preparation for something better to-morrow. The
past has gone from us forever; the future we cannot reach; the present alone is ours. Each
day's work is a preparation for the next day's duties.

Live in the present--the Day is here, the time is Now.

There is only one thing that is worth praying for--that we may be in the line of Evolution.

The Spirit of Man

Maybe I am all wrong about it, yet I cannot help believing that the spirit of man will live
again in a better world than ours. Fenelon says: "Justice demands another life to make good
the inequalities of this." Astronomers prophesy the existence of stars long before they can
see them. They know where they ought to be, and training their telescopes in that direction
they wait, knowing they shall find them.

Materially, no one can imagine anything more beautiful than this earth, for the simple reason
that we cannot imagine anything we have not seen; we may make new combinations, but the whole
is made up of parts of things with which we are familiar. This great green earth out of which
we have sprung, of which we are a part, that supports our bodies which must return to it to
repay the loan, is very, very beautiful.

But the spirit of man is not fully at home here; as we grow in soul and intellect, we hear,
and hear again, a voice which says: "Arise and get thee hence, for this is not thy rest." And
the greater and nobler and more sublime the spirit, the more constant is the discontent. Discontent
may come from various causes, so it will not do to assume that the discontented ones are always
the pure in heart, but it is a fact that the wise and excellent have all known the meaning
of world-weariness. The more you study and appreciate this life, the more sure you are that
this is not all. You pillow your head upon Mother Earth, listen to her heart-throb, and even
as your spirit is filled with the love of her, your gladness is half pain and there comes to
you a joy that hurts. To look upon the most exalted forms of beauty, such as sunset at sea,
the coming of a storm on the prairie, or the sublime majesty of the mountains, begets a sense
of sadness, an increasing loneliness. It is not enough to say that man encroaches on man so
that we are really deprived of our freedom, that civilization is caused by a bacillus, and
that from a natural condition we have gotten into a hurly-burly where rivalry is rife--all
this may be true, but beyond and outside of all this there is no physical environment in way
of plenty which earth can supply, that will give the tired soul peace. They are the happiest
who have the least; and the fable of the stricken king and the shirtless beggar contains the
germ of truth. The wise hold all earthly ties very lightly--they are stripping for eternity.

World-weariness is only a desire for a better spiritual condition. There is more to be written
on this subject of world-pain--to exhaust the theme would require a book. And certain it is
that I have no wish to say the final word on any topic. The gentle reader has certain rights,
and among these is the privilege of summing up the case.

But the fact holds that world-pain is a form of desire. All desires are just, proper and right;
and their gratification is the means by which nature supplies us that which we need.

Desire not only causes us to seek that which we need, but is a form of attraction by which
the good is brought to us, just as the amoebae create a swirl in the waters that brings their
food within reach.

Every desire in nature has a fixed and definite purpose in the Divine Economy, and every desire
has its proper gratification. If we desire the close friendship of a certain person, it is
because that person has certain soul-qualities that we do not possess, and which complement
our own.

Through desire do we come into possession of our own; by submitting to its beckonings we add
cubits to our stature; and we also give out to others our own attributes, without becoming
poorer, for soul is not limited. All nature is a symbol of spirit, and so I am forced to believe
that somewhere there must be a proper gratification for this mysterious nostalgia of the soul.

The Valhalla of the Norseman, the Nirvana of the Hindu, the Heaven of the Christian are natural
hopes of beings whose cares and disappointments here are softened by belief that somewhere,
Thor, Brahma or God gives compensation.

The Eternal Unities require a condition where men and women shall be permitted to love and
not to sorrow; where the tyranny of things hated shall not prevail, nor that for which the
heart yearns turn to ashes at our touch.

Art and Religion

While this seems true in the main, I am not sure it will hold in every case. Please think it
out for yourself, and if I happen to be wrong, why, put me straight.

The proposition is this: the artist needs no religion beyond his work. That is to say, art
is religion to the man who thinks beautiful thoughts and expresses them for others the best
he can. Religion is an emotional excitement whereby the devotee rises into a state of spiritual
sublimity, and for the moment is bathed in an atmosphere of rest, and peace, and love. All
normal men and women crave such periods; and Bernard Shaw says that we reach them through strong
tea, tobacco, whiskey, opium, love, art or religion.

I think Bernard Shaw a cynic, but there is a glimmer of truth in his idea that makes it worth
repeating. But beyond the natural religion, which is a passion for oneness with the Whole,
all formalized religions engraft the element of fear, and teach the necessity of placating
a Supreme Being. Our idea of a Supreme Being is suggested to us by the political government
under which we live. The situation was summed up by Carlyle, when he said that Deity to the
average British mind was simply an infinite George IV. The thought of God as a terrible Supreme
Tyrant first found form in an unlimited monarchy; but as governments have become more lenient
so have the gods, until you get them down (or up) to a republic, where God is only a president,
and we all approach Him in familiar prayer, on an absolute equality.

Then soon, for the first time, we find man saying, "I am God, and you are God, and we are all
simply particles of Him," and this is where the president is done away with, and the referendum
comes in. But the absence of a supreme governing head implies simplicity, honesty, justice,
and sincerity. Wherever plottings, schemings and doubtful methods of life are employed, a ruler
is necessary; and there, too, religion, with its idea of placating God has a firm hold. Men
whose lives are doubtful feel the need of a strong government and a hot religion. Formal religion
and sin go hand in hand. Formal religion and slavery go hand in hand. Formal religion and tyranny
go hand in hand. Formal religion and ignorance go hand in hand.

And sin, slavery, tyranny and ignorance are one--they are never separated.

Formal religion is a scheme whereby man hopes to make peace with his Maker; and a formal religion
also tends to satisfy the sense of sublimity where the man has failed to find satisfaction
in his work. Voltaire says, "When woman no longer finds herself acceptable to man, she turns
to God," When man is no longer acceptable to himself he goes to church. In order to keep this
article from extending itself into a tome, I purposely omitted saying a single thing about
the Protestant Church as a useful Social Club and have just assumed for argument's sake that
the church is really a religious institution.

A formal religion is only a cut 'cross lots--an attempt to bring about the emotions and the
sensations that come to a man by the practice of love, virtue, excellence and truth. When you
do a splendid piece of work and express your best, there comes to you, as reward, an exaltation
of soul, a sublimity of feeling that puts you for the time being in touch with the Infinite.
A formal religion brings this feeling without your doing anything useful, therefore it is unnatural.

Formalized religion is the strongest where sin, slavery, tyranny and ignorance abound. Where
men are free, enlightened and at work, they find all the gratification in their work that their
souls demand--they cease to hunt outside themselves for something to give them rest. They are
at peace with themselves, at peace with man and with God.

But any man chained to a hopeless task, whose daily work does not express himself, who is dogged
by a boss, whenever he gets a moment of respite turns to drink or religion.

Men with an eye on Saturday night, who plot to supplant some one else, who can locate an employer
any hour of the day, who use their wit to evade labor, who think only of their summer vacation
when they will no longer be compelled to work, are apt to be sticklers for Sabbath-keeping
and church-going.

Gentlemen in business who give eleven for a dozen, and count thirty-four inches a yard, who
are quick to foreclose a mortgage, and who say "business is business," generally are vestrymen,
deacons and church trustees. Look about you! Predaceous real estate dealers who set nets for
all the unwary, lawyers who lie in wait for their prey, merchant princes who grind their clerks
under the wheel, and oil magnates whose history was never written, nor could be written, often
make peace with God, and find a gratification for their sense of sublimity by building churches,
founding colleges, giving libraries, and holding firmly to a formalized religion. Look about you!

To recapitulate: if your life-work is doubtful, questionable or distasteful, you will hold
the balance true by going outside your vocation for the gratification that is your due, but
which your daily work denies, and you find it in religion, I do not say this is always so,
but it is very often. Great sinners are apt to be very religious; and conversely, the best
men who have ever lived have been at war with established religions. And further, the best
men are never found in churches.

Men deeply immersed in their work, whose lives are consecrated to doing things, who are simple,
honest and sincere, desire no formal religion, need no priest nor pastor, and seek no gratification
outside their daily lives. All they ask is to be let alone--they wish only the privilege to work.

When Samuel Johnson, on his death bed, made Joshua Reynolds promise he would do no more work
on Sunday, he of course had no conception of the truth that Reynolds reached through work the
same condition of mind that he, Johnson, had reached by going to church. Johnson despised work
and Reynolds loved it; Johnson considered one day in the week holy; to Reynolds all days were
sacred--sacred to work; that is, to the expression of his best. Why should you cease to express
your holiest and highest on Sunday? Ah, I know why you don't work on Sunday! It is because
you think that work is degrading, and because your sale and barter is founded on fraud, and
your goods are shoddy. Your week-day dealings lie like a pall upon your conscience, and you
need a day in which to throw off the weariness of that slavery under which you live. You are
not free yourself, and you insist that others shall not be free.

You have ceased to make work gladsome, and you toil and make others toil with you, and you
all well nigh faint from weariness and disgust. You are slave and slave-owner, for to own slaves
is to be one.

But the artist is free and he works in joy, and to him all things are good and all days are
holy. The great inventors, thinkers, poets, musicians and artists have all been men of deep
religious natures; but their religion has never been a formalized, restricted, ossified religion.
They did not worship at set times and places. Their religion has been a natural and spontaneous
blossoming of the intellect and emotions--they have worked in love, not only one day in the
week, but all days, and to them the groves have always and ever been God's first temples.

Let us work to make men free! Am I bad because I want to give you freedom, and have you work
in gladness instead of fear?

Do not hesitate to work on Sunday, just as you would think good thoughts if the spirit prompts
you. For work is, at the last, only the expression of your thought, and there can be no better
religion than good work.

Initiative

The world bestows its big prizes, both in money and honors, for but one thing. And that is
Initiative. What is Initiative? I'll tell you: It is doing the right thing without being told.
But next to doing the right thing without being told is to do it when you are told once. That
is to say, carry the Message to Garcia! There are those who never do a thing until they are
told twice: such get no honors and small pay. Next, there are those who do the right thing
only when necessity kicks them from behind, and these get indifference instead of honors, and
a pittance for pay. This kind spends most of its time polishing a bench with a hard-luck story.
Then, still lower down in the scale than this, we find the fellow who will not do the right
thing even when some one goes along to show him how, and stays to see that he does it; he is
always out of a job, and receives the contempt he deserves, unless he has a rich Pa, in which
case Destiny awaits near by with a stuffed club. To which class do you belong?

And he has done it by a dry-plate, quick-shutter process in a manner that surely lays him liable
for criminal libel in the assize of high society. She plays bridge whist, for "keeps" when
she wins, and "owes" when she loses, and her picture in flattering half-tone often adorns a
page of the Sunday Yellow. Her room is a jumble of disorder. The one gleam of hope for her
lies in the fact that out of shame, she allows no visitor to enter her apartments if she can
help it. Concrete selfishness is her chief mark.

The Neutral

There is known to me a prominent business house that by the very force of its directness and
worth has incurred the enmity of many rivals. In fact, there is a very general conspiracy on
hand to put the institution down and out. In talking with a young man employed by this house,
he yawned and said, "Oh, in this quarrel I am neutral."

"But you get your bread and butter from this firm, and in a matter where the very life of the
institution is concerned, I do not see how you can be a neutral."

And he changed the subject.

I think that if I enlisted in the Japanese army I would not be a neutral.

Business is a fight--a continual struggle--just as life is. Man has reached his present degree
of development through struggle. Struggle there must be and always will be. The struggle began
as purely physical; as man evolved it shifted ground to the mental, psychic, and the spiritual,
with a few dashes of cave-man proclivities still left. But depend upon it, the struggle will
always be--life is activity. And when it gets to be a struggle in well-doing, it will still
be a struggle. When inertia gets the better of you it is time to telephone to the undertaker.

The only real neutral in this game of life is a dead one.

Eternal vigilance is not only the price of liberty, but of every other good thing.

A business that is not safeguarded on every side by active, alert, attentive, vigilant men
is gone. As oxygen is the disintegrating principle of life, working night and day to dissolve,
separate, pull apart and dissipate, so there is something in business that continually tends
to scatter, destroy and shift possession from this man to that. A million mice nibble eternally
at every business venture.

The mice are not neutrals, and if enough employes in a business house are neutrals, the whole
concern will eventually come tumbling about their ears.

I like that order of Field-Marshal Oyama: "Give every honorable neutral that you find in our
lines the honorable jiu-jitsu hikerino."

Reflections on Progress

Renan has said that truth is always rejected when it comes to a man for the first time, its
evolution being as follows:

First, we say the thing is rank heresy, and contrary to the Bible.

Second, we say the matter really amounts to nothing, anyway.

Third, we declare that we always believed it.

Two hundred years ago partnerships in business were very rare. A man in business simply made
things and sold them--and all the manufacturing was done by himself and his immediate family.
Soon we find instances of brothers continuing the work the father had begun, as in the case
of the Elzevirs and the Plantins, the great bookmakers of Holland. To meet this competition,
four printers, in 1640, formed a partnership and pooled their efforts. A local writer by the
name of Van Krugen denounced these four men, and made savage attacks on partnerships in general
as wicked and illegal, and opposed to the best interests of the people. This view seems to
have been quite general, for there was a law in Amsterdam forbidding all partnerships in business
that were not licensed by the state. The legislature of the State of Missouri has recently
made war on the department store in the same way, using the ancient Van Krugen argument as
a reason, for there is no copyright on stupidity.

In London in the seventeenth century men who were found guilty of pooling their efforts and
dividing profits, were convicted by law and punished for "contumacy, contravention and connivance,"
and were given a taste of the stocks in the public square.

When corporations were formed for the first time, only a few years ago, there was a fine burst
of disapproval. The corporation was declared a scheme of oppression, a hungry octopus, a grinder
of the individual. And to prove the case various instances of hardship were cited; and no doubt
there was much suffering, for many people are never able to adjust themselves to new conditions
without experiencing pain and regret.

But we now believe that corporations came because they were required. I found myself once with more than four thousand persons, who all
said they saw the spirit; i was the only one in the assembly who saw
nothing.

"so writes me a very worthy officer, this year, 1745, in the same
letter wherein he relates the affair of M. Despilliers.

Footnotes: [284] St. Sulpit. He opened it, read in it ten or twelve greek verses, which absolutely cleared
out the difficulty which had so long beset him; he awoke, and wrote down the verses he had seen at
Stockholm. On the morrow, he wrote to M. Descartes, who was then in
Sweden, and begged of him to look in such a place, and in such a division
of the library, if the book, of which he sent him the description,
were there, and if the greek verses which he sent him were to be read
in it.

M. Descartes
replied that he had found the book in question; and also the verses
he had sent were in the place he pointed out; that one of his friends
had promised him a copy of that work, and he would send it him by
the first opportunity.

We have already said something of the spirit, or familiar
genius of Socrates, which prevented him from doing certain things, but
did not lead him to do others.

It is asserted [290] that, after the defeat of the Athenian army, commanded by Laches, Socrates, flying
like the others, with this Athenian general, and being arrived at a spot where several roads met, Socrates
would not follow the road taken by the other fugitives; and when they asked him the reason, he replied,
because his genius drew him away from it. The event justified his foresight. All those who had taken the
other road were either killed or made prisoners by the enemy's cavalry. It is doubtful whether the
elves, of which so many things are related, are good or bad spirits; for the faith of the church
admits nothing between these two kinds of genii.

Every
genius is either good or bad; but as there are in heaven many mansions, as the Gospel says,
[291] and as there are among the blessed, various degrees of glory,
differing from each other, so we may believe that there are in hell
various degrees of pain and punishment for the damned and the demons.
But are they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible,
and divert themselves in disquieting the living? why do they attach
themselves to certain spots, and certain persons, rather than to others?
why do they make themselves perceptible only during a certain time,
and that sometimes a short space? i could willingly conclude that
what is said of them is mere fancy and prejudice; but their reality
has been so often experienced by the discourse they have held, and
the actions they have performed in the presence of many wise and enlightened
persons, that i cannot persuade myself that among the great number
of stories related of them there are not at least some of them true.

It may be
remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good, to prayer,
or piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions. If they do
no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments of
the damned, on the efficacy of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt
not those men or animals which are found on the spot where they may
be perceived, it is because God sets bounds to their malice and power.

The demon has a thousand ways of deceiving us. All those to whom these genii attach themselves have
a horror of them, mistrust and fear them; and it rarely happens that these familiar demons do not lead
them to a dangerous end, unless they deliver themselves from them by grave acts of religion and penance.
There is the story of a spirit," which, "says he who wrote it to me," i no more doubt the truth
of than if i had been a witness of it. "Count Despilliers, the father, being a young man, and captain
of cuirassiers, was in winter quarters in Flanders.

One of his men came to him one day to beg that he would change his landlord,
saying that every night there came into his bed-room a spirit, which
would not allow him to sleep.

The Count Despilliers sent him away, and laughed at his simplicity. Some days after, the same horseman
came back and made the same request to him; the only reply of the captain would have been
a volley of blows with a stick, had not the soldier avoided them by a prompt flight. At last,
he returned a third time to the charge, and protested to his captain that he could bear it no longer,
and should be obliged to desert if his lodgings were not changed. Despilliers, who knew the soldier to be
brave and reasonable, said to him, with an oath," i will go this
night and sleep with you, and see what is the matter.

"at ten o'clock in the evening, the captain repaired to his soldier's
lodging, and having laid his pistols ready primed upon the table,
he lay down in his clothes, his sword by his side, with his soldier,
in a bed without curtains.

About midnight he heard something which came into the room, and in a moment turned the bed upside down,
covering the captain and the soldier with the mattress and paillasse.

Despilliers had great trouble to disengage himself and find again his sword and pistols, and he returned
home much confounded. The horse-soldier had a new lodging the very next day, and slept quietly
in the house of his new host. M. Despilliers related this adventure to any one who would listen
to it. He was an intrepid man, who had never known what it was to fall back before danger. He died field-marshal
of the armies of the Emperor Charles VI. And governor of the fortress
of Ségedin. His son has confirmed this adventure to me within a short
time, as having heard it from his father. The person who writes to
me adds:" i doubt not that spirits sometimes return; but i have found
myself in a great many places which it was said they haunted.

I have even tried several times to see them, but i have never seen
any. Bodin [285] speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still
living at the time he wrote, which was in 1588. This person had a familiar
who from the age of thirty-seven had given him good advice respecting
his conduct, sometimes to correct his faults, sometimes to make him
practice virtue, or to assist him; resolving the difficulties which
he might find in reading holy books, or giving him good counsel upon
his own affairs.

He usually rapped at his door at three or four o'clock in the morning to awaken
him; and as that person mistrusted all these things, fearing that it might
be an evil angel, the spirit showed himself in broad day, striking gently
on a glass bowl, and then upon a bench. When he desired to do anything
good and useful, the spirit touched his right ear; but if it was anything
wrong and dangerous, he touched his left ear; so that from that time
nothing occurred to him of which he was not warned beforehand.

Sometimes he heard his voice; and one day, when he found his life in imminent
danger, he saw his genius, under the form of a child of extraordinary
beauty, who saved him from it. William, Bishop of Paris, [286] says that
he knew a rope-dancer who had a familiar spirit which played and
joked with him, and prevented him from sleeping, throwing something
against the wall, dragging off the bed-clothes, or pulling him about
when he was in bed.

We know by the account of a very sensible person that it has happened to him in the open country, and in
the day time, to feel his cloak and boots pulled at, and his hat thrown down; then he heard
the bursts of laughter and the voice of a person deceased and well known
to him, who seemed to rejoice at it.

The discovery of things
hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams, or otherwise, can hardly
be ascribed to anything but to familiar spirits.

A man who did not know a word of Greek came to M. De Saumaise, senior, a counselor of the Parliament
of Dijon, and showed him is these words, which he had heard in the night, as he slept, and which he
wrote down in french characters on awaking: "Apithi ouc osphraine
tén sén apsychian." he asked him what that meant.

M. De Saumaise told him it meant, "save yourself; do you not perceive the death with which you
are threatened?" upon this hint, the man removed, and left his house, which fell down the following
night. [287] the same story is related, with a little difference,
by another author, who says that the circumstance happened at Paris;
[288] that the genius spoke in Syriac, and that M. De Saumaise being
consulted, replied, "go up of your house, for it will fall in ruins
to-day, at nine o'clock in the evening." it is but too much the custom
in reciting stories of this kind to add a few circumstances by way
of embellishment.

Gassendi, in the Life
of M. Peiresch, relates that M. Peiresch, going one day to Nismes, with
one of his friends, named M. Rainier, the latter, having heard Peiresch
talking in his sleep in the night, waked him, and asked him what he said. Peiresch
answered him, "i dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler had offered
me a medal of Julius Cæsar, for which he asked four crowns, and as
i was going to count him down his money, you waked me, to my great
regret." they arrived at Nismes, and going about the town, Peiresch
recognized the goldsmith whom he had seen in his dream; and on his
asking him if he had nothing curious, the goldsmith told him he had
a gold medal, or coin, of Julius Cæsar.

Peiresch asked
him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four crowns. Peiresch
paid them, and was delighted to see his dream so happily accomplished.
Here is a dream much more singular than the preceding, although a little in the
same style. [289] a learned man of Dijon, after having wearied himself
all day with an important passage in a greek poet, without being able
to comprehend it at all, went to bed thinking of this difficulty.

During his sleep, his genius transported
him in spirit to Stockholm, introduced him into the palace of Queen Christina,
conducted him into the library, and showed him a small volume, which
was precisely what he sought. They went there, and found things exactly
as she had said.

They picked up the money, which what the curé had put away in a place
not locked up; and in a moment after they found it anew, with some liards,
two by two, scattered about the kitchen. The agents of the Count
de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went to the curé's house, and
persuaded him that it was all the effect of a spell; they told him
to take two pistols, and fire them off at the place where he might
observe there were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these officers two pieces of
silver; and from that time he was no longer perceived in the house. The
circumstances of two pistols terminating the scenes with which the
elf had disturbed the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting
imp was no other than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had
been obliged to send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself
had done all that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had
had credit enough to send in his stead a familiar genius who puzzled
a curé for some weeks; for, if he were not bodily in this house, what
had he to fear from any pistol shot which might have been fired at
him? and if he was there bodily, how could he render himself invisible?
i have been told several times that a monk of the cistercian order
had a familiar genius who attended upon him, arranged his chamber,
and prepared everything ready for him when he was coming back from
the country.

They were so accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these signs, and he always arrived.
It is affirmed of another monk of the same order that he had a familiar
spirit, who warned him, not only of what passed in the house, but also
with what appeared to them supernatural dexterity. The spirit never
hurt anybody, and never did anything in the night time, but always
during the day.

The curé employed the prayers marked out in the ritual to bless his house, and thenceforth the
genius broke no more panes of glass; but he continued to throw stones
at the curé's people, without hurting them, however.

If they fetched water from the fountain, he threw stones into the bucket; and afterwards he began to
serve in the kitchen. One day, as the servant was planting some cabbages in the garden, he pulled
them up as very as she planted them, and laid them in a heap. It was in vain that she stormed, threatened,
and swore in the german style; the genius continued to play his tricks.

One day, when a bed in the same persons, without their seeing the hand which threw it. The
next day, at nine o'clock in the morning, some panes of glass were
broken, and through these panes were thrown some stones, of what happened
out of it; and one day he was awakened three times, and warned that
some monks were quarreling, and were ready to come to blows; he ran
to the spot, and put an end to the dispute.

St. Sulpicius Severus [284] relates that St. Martin often had conversations
with the holy Virgin, and other saints, and even with the demons
and false gods of paganism; he talked with them, and learned from
them many secret things.

One day, when a council was being held at Nîmes, where he had not thought proper to be present, but the
decisions of which he desired to know, being in a boat with St. Sulpicius,
but apart from others, as usual with him, an angel appeared, and informed
him what had passed in this assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made as to the day and hour when the council was held, and it was found to be at the
same hour at which the angel had appeared to Martin.

We have been told several times that a young ecclesiastic, in a seminary
at Paris, had a genius who waited upon him, and arranged his room
and his clothes. One day, when the superior was passing by the chamber
of the seminarist, he heard him talking with some one; he entered,
and asked who he was conversing with.

The youth
affirmed that there was no one in his room, and, in fact, the superior
could neither see nor discover any one there. Nevertheless, as he
had heard their conversation, the young man owned that for some years
he had been attended by a familiar genius, who rendered him every
service that a domestic could have done, and had promised him great
advantages in the ecclesiastical profession.

The superior pressed
him to give some proofs of what he said. He ordered the genius to set
a chair for the superior; the genius obeyed. Information of this was sent to the
archbishop, who did not think proper to give it publicity. The young
clerk was sent away, and this singular adventure was buried in silence. 2. CHAPTER
XXXI. SPIRITS that keep WATCH over TREASURE.

Everybody acknowledges that there is an infinity of riches buried in the
earth, or lost under the waters by shipwrecks; they fancy that the demon,
whom they look upon as the god of riches, the god mammon, the Pluto
of the pagans, is the depositary, or at least the guardian, of these
treasures.

We know also that the ancients fast often interred vast
treasures in the tombs of the dead; either that the dead might make use of
them in the other world, or that their souls might keep guard over them
in those gloomy places. Job seems to make allusion to this ancient custom,
when he says, [293] "would to God I had never been born: i should
now sleep with the kings and great ones of the earth, who built themselves
solitary places; like unto those who seek for treasure, and are rejoiced
when they find a tomb;" doubtless because they hope to find great
riches therein.

There were very precious things in the tomb of Cyrus. CHAPTER xxx. Some other EXAMPLES of ELVES.
On the 25th of August, 1746, i received a letter from a very worthy
man, the curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the
mountains of Vosges, in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in lower
Alsatia, Diocese of Metz.

In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June, 1740, at eight o'clock
in the morning, he being in his kitchen, with his niece and the servant,
he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was placed on the ground turn
round three or four times, without its being set in motion by any
one.

A moment after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from the next room
into the same kitchen, in presence of the garden had been dug and prepared,
the spade was found thrust two feet deep into the ground, without
any trace being seen of him who had thus stuck it in; but they observed
that on the spade was a riband, and by the spade were two pieces of
two soles, which the girl had locked up the evening before in a little
box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter, and putting it either all
round the kitchen, or in the porch, or even in the cemetery, and always
in broad daylight. One day he filled an iron pot with wild herbs, bran, and
leaves of trees, and, having put some water in it, carried it to the ally
or walk in the garden; another time he suspended it to the pot-hook
over the fire.

The servant having broken two eggs into a little dish for the curé's supper, the genius broke two
more into it in his presence, the maid having merely turned to get
some salt.

The curé having gone to say mass, on his return found all his earthenware,
furniture, linen, bread, milk, and other things scattered about over the
house.

Sometimes the spirit would form circles on the paved floor, at one time with stones, at another with corn
or leaves, and in a moment, before the eyes of all present, all was overturned
and deranged. Tired with these games, the curé sent for the mayor
of the place, and told him he was resolved to quit the parsonage
house.

Whilst
this was passing, the curé's niece came in, and told them that the
genius had torn up the cabbages in the garden, and had put some money in the
hole in the ground. Sever. Dialog. Ii. C. 14, 15.

[285] Bodin Demonomania, lib. Ii. C. 2. [286] Guillelm. Paris, 2 Part.
Quæst. 2, c. 8. [287] grot. Epist.

Part. Ii. Ep. 405. [288] they affirm that it happened at dijon, in the
family of the MM. Surmin, in which a constant tradition has perpetuated
the memory of the circumstance. [289] Continuation of the Count de Gabalis,
at the Hague, 1708, p. 55. [290] Cicero, de Divinat. Lib. I. [291] John
xiv.
 The beggar got the money and Minneapolis Tom got the experience. Tom said the man would
lose the money, but he himself has gotten the part that will be his for ninety-nine years.
Surely the spirit of justice does not sleep and there is a beneficent and wise Providence that
watches over magnates.

Work and Waste

These truths I hold to be self-evident: That man was made to be happy; that happiness is only
attainable through useful effort; that the very best way to help ourselves is to help others,
and often the best way to help others is to mind our own business; that useful effort means
the proper exercise of all our faculties; that we grow only through exercise; that education
should continue through life, and the joys of mental endeavor should be, especially, the solace
of the old; that where men alternate work, play and study in right proportion, the organs of
the mind are the last to fail, and death for such has no terrors.

That the possession of wealth can never make a man exempt from useful manual labor; that if
all would work a little, no one would then be overworked; that if no one wasted, all would
have enough; that if none were overfed, none would be underfed; that the rich and "educated"
need education quite as much as the poor and illiterate; that the presence of a serving class
is an indictment and a disgrace to our civilization; that the disadvantage of having a serving
class falls most upon those who are served, and not upon those who serve--just as the real
curse of slavery fell upon the slave-owners.

That people who are waited on by a serving class cannot have a right consideration for the
rights of others, and they waste both time and substance, both of which are lost forever, and
can only seemingly be made good by additional human effort.

That the person who lives on the labor of others, not giving himself in return to the best
of his ability, is really a consumer of human life and therefore must be considered no better
than a cannibal.

That each one living naturally will do the thing he can do best, but that in useful service
there is no high nor low.

That to set apart one day in seven as "holy" is really absurd and serves only to loosen our
grasp on the tangible present.

That all duties, offices and things which are useful and necessary to humanity are sacred,
and that nothing else is or can be sacred.

The Law of Obedience

The very first item in the creed of common sense is Obedience.

Perform your work with a whole heart.

Revolt may be sometimes necessary, but the man who tries to mix revolt and obedience is doomed
to disappoint himself and everybody with whom he has dealings. To flavor work with protest
is to fail absolutely.

When you revolt, why revolt--climb, hike, get out, defy--tell everybody and everything to go
to hades! That disposes of the case. You thus separate yourself entirely from those you have
served--no one misunderstands you--you have declared yourself.

The man who quits in disgust when ordered to perform a task which he considers menial or unjust
may be a pretty good fellow, but in the wrong environment, but the malcontent who takes your
order with a smile and then secretly disobeys, is a dangerous proposition. To pretend to obey,
and yet carry in your heart the spirit of revolt is to do half-hearted, slipshod work. If revolt
and obedience are equal in power, your engine will then stop on the center and you benefit
no one, not even yourself.

The spirit of obedience is the controlling impulse that dominates the receptive mind and the
hospitable heart. There are boats that mind the helm and there are boats that do not. Those
that do not, get holes knocked in them sooner or later.

To keep off the rocks, obey the rudder.

Obedience is not to slavishly obey this man or that, but it is that cheerful mental state which
responds to the necessity of the case, and does the thing without any back talk--unuttered
or expressed.

Obedience to the institution--loyalty! The man who has not learned to obey has trouble ahead
of him every step of the way. The world has it in for him continually, because he has it in
for the world.

The man who does not know how to receive orders is not fit to issue them to others. But the
individual who knows how to execute the orders given him is preparing the way to issue orders,
and better still--to have them obeyed.

Society's Saviors

All adown the ages society has made the mistake of nailing its Saviors to the cross between
thieves.

That is to say, society has recognized in the Savior a very dangerous quality--something about
him akin to a thief, and his career has been suddenly cut short.

We have telephones and trolly cars, yet we have not traveled far into the realm of spirit,
and our X-ray has given us no insight into the heart of things.

Society is so dull and dense, so lacking in spiritual vision, so dumb and so beast-like that
it does not know the difference between a thief and the only Begotten Son. In a frantic effort
to forget its hollowness it takes to ping-pong, parchesi and progressive euchre, and seeks
to lose itself and find solace and consolation in tiddle-dy-winks.

We are told in glaring head-lines and accurate photographic reproductions of a conference held
by leaders in society to settle a matter of grave import. Was it to build technical schools
and provide a means for practical and useful education? Was it a plan of building modern tenement
houses along scientific and sanitary lines? Was it called to provide funds for scientific research
of various kinds that would add to human knowledge and prove a benefit to mankind? No, it was
none of these. This body met to determine whether the crook in a certain bulldog's tail was
natural or had been produced artificially.

Should the Savior come to-day and preach the same gospel that He taught before, society would
see that His experience was repeated. Now and then it blinks stupidly and cries, "Away with
Him!" or it stops its game long enough to pass gall and vinegar on a spear to One it has thrust
beyond the pale.

For the woman who has loved much society has but one verdict: crucify her! The best and the
worst are hanged on one tree.

In the abandon of a great love there exists a godlike quality which places a woman very close
to the holy of holies, yet such a one, not having complied with the edicts of society, is thrust
unceremoniously forth, and society, Pilate-like, washes its hands in innocency.

Preparing for Old Age

Socrates was once asked by a pupil, this question: "What kind of people shall we be when we
reach Elysium?"

And the answer was this: "We shall be the same kind of people that we were here."

If there is a life after this, we are preparing for it now, just as I am to-day preparing for
my life to-morrow.

What kind of a man shall I be to-morrow? Oh, about the same kind of a man that I am now. The
kind of a man that I shall be next month depends upon the kind of a man that I have been this
month.

If I am miserable to-day, it is not within the round of probabilities that I shall be supremely
happy to-morrow. Heaven is a habit. And if we are going to Heaven we would better be getting
used to it.

Life is a preparation for the future; and the best preparation for the future is to live as
if there were none.

We are preparing all the time for old age. The two things that make old age beautiful are resignation
and a just consideration for the rights of others.

In the play of Ivan the Terrible, the interest centers around one man, the Czar Ivan. If anybody
but Richard Mansfield played the part, there would be nothing in it. We simply get a glimpse
into the life of a tyrant who has run the full gamut of goosedom, grumpiness, selfishness and
grouch. Incidentally this man had the power to put other men to death, and this he does and
has done as his whim and temper might dictate. He has been vindictive, cruel, quarrelsome,
tyrannical and terrible. Now that he feels the approach of death, he would make his peace with
God. But he has delayed that matter too long. He didn't realize in youth and middle life that
he was then preparing for old age.

Man is the result of cause and effect, and the causes are to a degree in our hands. Life is
a fluid, and well has it been called the stream of life--we are going, flowing somewhere. Strip
Ivan of his robes and crown, and he might be an old farmer and live in Ebenezer. Every town
and village has its Ivan. To be an Ivan, just turn your temper loose and practise cruelty on
any person or thing within your reach, and the result will be a sure preparation for a querulous,
quarrelsome, pickety, snipity, fussy and foolish old age, accented with many outbursts of wrath
that are terrible in their futility and ineffectiveness.

Babyhood has no monopoly on the tantrum. The characters of King Lear and Ivan the Terrible
have much in common. One might almost believe that the writer of Ivan had felt the incompleteness
of Lear, and had seen the absurdity of making a melodramatic bid for sympathy in behalf of
this old man thrust out by his daughters.

Lear, the troublesome, Lear to whose limber tongue there was constantly leaping words unprintable
and names of tar, deserves no soft pity at our hands. All his life he had been training his
three daughters for exactly the treatment he was to receive. All his life Lear had been lubricating
the chute that was to give him a quick ride out into that black midnight storm.

"Oh, how sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child," he cries.

There is something quite as bad as a thankless child, and that is a thankless parent--an irate,
irascible parent who possesses an underground vocabulary and a disposition to use it.

The false note in Lear lies in giving to him a daughter like Cordelia. Tolstoy and Mansfield
ring true, and Ivan the Terrible is what he is without apology, excuse or explanation. Take
it or leave it--if you do not like plays of this kind, go to see Vaudeville.

Mansfield's Ivan is terrible. The Czar is not old in years--not over seventy--but you can see
that Death is sniffing close upon his track. Ivan has lost the power of repose. He cannot listen,
weigh and decide--he has no thought or consideration for any man or thing--this is his habit
of life. His bony hands are never still--the fingers open and shut, and pick at things eternally.
He fumbles the cross on his breast, adjusts his jewels, scratches his cosmos, plays the devil's
tattoo, gets up nervously and looks behind the throne, holds his breath to listen. When people
address him, he damns them savagely if they kneel, and if they stand upright he accuses them
of lack of respect. He asks that he be relieved from the cares of state, and then trembles
for fear his people will take him at his word. When asked to remain ruler of Russia he proceeds
to curse his councilors and accuses them of loading him with burdens that they themselves would
not endeavor to bear.

He is a victim of amor senilis, and right here if Mansfield took one step more his realism
would be appalling, but he stops in time and suggests what he dares not express. This tottering,
doddering, slobbering, sniffling old man is in love--he is about to wed a young, beautiful
girl. He selects jewels for her--he makes remarks about what would become her beauty, jeers
and laughs in cracked falsetto. In the animality of youth there is something pleasing--it is
natural--but the vices of an old man, when they have become only mental, are most revolting.

The people about Ivan are in mortal terror of him, for he is still the absolute monarch--he
has the power to promote or disgrace, to take their lives or let them go free. They laugh when
he laughs, cry when he does, and watch his fleeting moods with thumping hearts.

He is intensely religious and affects the robe and cowl of a priest. Around his neck hangs
the crucifix. His fear is that he will die with no opportunity of confession and absolution.
He prays to High Heaven every moment, kisses the cross, and his toothless old mouth interjects
prayers to God and curses on man in the same breath.

If any one is talking to him he looks the other way, slips down until his shoulders occupy
the throne, scratches his leg, and keeps up a running comment of insult--"Aye," "Oh," "Of course,"
"Certainly," "Ugh," "Listen to him now!" There is a comedy side to all this which relieves
the tragedy and keeps the play from becoming disgusting.

Glimpses of Ivan's past are given in his jerky confessions--he is the most miserable and unhappy
of men, and you behold that he is reaping as he has sown.

All his life he has been preparing for this. Each day has been a preparation for the next.
Ivan dies in a fit of wrath, hurling curses on his family and court--dies in a fit of wrath
into which he has been purposely taunted by a man who knows that the outburst is certain to
kill the weakened monarch.

Where does Ivan the Terrible go when Death closes his eyes?

I know not. But this I believe: No confessional can absolve him--no priest benefit him--no
God forgive him. He has damned himself, and he began the work in youth. He was getting ready
all his life for this old age, and this old age was getting ready for the fifth act.

The playwright does not say so, Mansfield does not say so, but this is the lesson: Hate is
a poison--wrath is a toxin--sensuality leads to death--clutching selfishness is a lighting
of the fires of hell. It is all a preparation--cause and effect.

If you are ever absolved, you must absolve yourself, for no one else can. And the sooner you
begin, the better.

We often hear of the beauties of old age, but the only old age that is beautiful is the one
the man has long been preparing for by living a beautiful life. Every one of us are right now
preparing for old age.

There may be a substitute somewhere in the world for Good Nature, but I do not know where it
can be found.

The secret of salvation is this: Keep Sweet.

An Alliance with Nature

My father is a doctor who has practised medicine for sixty-five years, and is still practising.

I am a doctor myself.

I am fifty years old; my father is eighty-five. We live in the same house, and daily we ride
horseback together or tramp thru the fields and woods. To-day we did our little jaunt of five
miles and back 'cross country.

I have never been ill a day--never consulted a physician in a professional way, and in fact,
never missed a meal through inability to eat. As for the author of the author of A Message
to Garcia, he holds, esoterically, to the idea that the hot pedaluvia and small doses of hop
tea will cure most ailments that are curable, and so far all of his own ails have been curable--a
point he can prove.

The value of the pedaluvia lies in the fact that it tends to equalize circulation, not to mention
the little matter of sanitation; and the efficacy of the hops lies largely in the fact that
they are bitter and disagreeable to take.

Both of these prescriptions give the patient the soothing thought that something is being done
for him, and at the very worst can never do him serious harm.

My father and I are not fully agreed on all of life's themes, so existence for us never resolves
itself into a dull, neutral gray. He is a Baptist and I am a Vegetarian. Occasionally he refers
to me as "callow," and we have daily resorts to logic to prove prejudices, and history is searched
to bolster the preconceived, but on the following important points we stand together, solid
as one man:

First. Ninety-nine people out of a hundred who go to a physician have no organic disease, but
are merely suffering from some symptom of their own indiscretion.

Second. Individuals who have diseases, nine times out of ten, are suffering only from the accumulated
evil effects of medication.

Third. Hence we get the proposition: Most diseases are the result of medication which has been
prescribed to relieve and take away a beneficent and warning symptom on the part of wise Nature.

Most of the work of doctors in the past has been to prescribe for symptoms; the difference
between actual disease and a symptom being something that the average man does not even yet know.

And the curious part is that on these points all physicians, among themselves, are fully agreed.
What I say here being merely truism, triteness and commonplace.

Last week, in talking with an eminent surgeon in Buffalo, he said, "I have performed over a
thousand operations of laparotomy, and my records show that in every instance, excepting in
cases of accident, the individual was given to what you call the 'Beecham Habit.'"

The people you see waiting in the lobbies of doctors' offices are, in a vast majority of cases,
suffering thru poisoning caused by an excess of food. Coupled with this goes the bad results
of imperfect breathing, irregular sleep, lack of exercise, and improper use of stimulants,
or holding the thought of fear, jealousy and hate. All of these things, or any one of them,
will, in very many persons, cause fever, chills, cold feet, congestion and faulty elimination.

To administer drugs to a man suffering from malnutrition caused by a desire to "get even,"
and a lack of fresh air, is simply to compound his troubles, shuffle his maladies, and get
him ripe for the ether-cone and scalpel.

Nature is forever trying to keep people well, and most so-called "disease," which word means
merely lack of ease, is self-limiting, and tends to cure itself. If you have appetite, do not
eat too much. If you have no appetite, do not eat at all. Be moderate in the use of all things,
save fresh air and sunshine.

The one theme of Ecclesiastes is moderation. Buddha wrote it down that the greatest word in
any language is Equanimity. William Morris said that the finest blessing of life was systematic,
useful work. Saint Paul declared that the greatest thing in the world was love. Moderation,
Equanimity, Work and Love--you need no other physician.

In so stating I lay down a proposition agreed to by all physicians; which was expressed by
Hippocrates, the father of medicine, and then repeated in better phrase by Epictetus, the slave,
to his pupil, the great Roman Emperor, Marcus Aurelius, and which has been known to every thinking
man and woman since: Moderation, Equanimity, Work and Love!

The Ex. Question

Words sometimes become tainted and fall into bad repute, and are discarded. Until the day of
Elizabeth Fry, on the official records in England appeared the word "mad-house." Then it was
wiped out and the word "asylum" substituted. Within twenty years' time in several states in
America we have discarded the word "asylum" and have substituted the word "hospital."

In Jeffersonville, Indiana, there is located a "Reformatory" which some years ago was known
as a penitentiary. The word "prison" had a depressing effect, and "penitentiary" throws a theological
shadow, and so the words will have to go. As our ideas of the criminal change, we change our
vocabulary.

A few years ago we talked about asylums for the deaf and dumb--the word "dumb" has now been
stricken from every official document in every state in the Union, because we have discovered,
with the assistance of Gardner G. Hubbard, that deaf people are not dumb, and not being defectives,
they certainly do not need an asylum. They need schools, however, and so everywhere we have
established schools for the deaf.

Deaf people are just as capable, are just as competent, just as well able to earn an honest
living as is the average man who can hear.

The "indeterminate sentence" is one of the wisest expedients ever brought to bear in penology.
And it is to this generation alone that the honor of first using it must be given. The offender
is sentenced for, say from one to eight years. This means that if the prisoner behaves himself,
obeying the rules, showing a desire to be useful, he will be paroled and given his freedom
at the end of one year.

If he misbehaves and does not prove his fitness for freedom he will be kept two or three years,
and he may possibly have to serve the whole eight years. Your dear Charles,-- I am afraid you'll
be worrying about me again, wondering why I'm to lying doggo, what mischief
I'm of, or whether anything has happened to me. Something has happened, but
I'm not quite sure myself what it is. Anyhow, I'll give you all I
know.

The old plan of "short time," allowing two or three months off from every year for good behavior
was a move in the right direction, but the indeterminate sentence will soon be the rule everywhere
for first offenders.

The indeterminate sentence throws upon the man himself the responsibility for the length of
his confinement and tends to relieve prison life of its horror, by holding out hope. The man
has the short time constantly in mind, and usually is very careful not to do anything to imperil
it. Insurrection and an attempt to escape may mean that every day of the whole long sentence
will have to be served.

So even the dullest of minds and the most calloused realize that it pays to do what is right--the
lesson being pressed home upon them in a way it has never been before.

The old-time prejudice of business men against the man who had "done time" was chiefly on account
of his incompetence, and not his record. The prison methods that turned out a hateful, depressed
and frightened man who had been suppressed by the silent system and deformed by the lock-step,
calloused by brutal treatment and the constant thought held over him that he was a criminal,
was a bad thing for the prisoner, for the keeper and for society. Even an upright man would
be undone by such treatment, and in a year be transformed into a sly, secretive and morally
sick man. The men just out of prison were unable to do anything--they needed constant supervision
and attention, and so of course we did not care to hire them.

The Ex. now is a totally different man from the Ex. just out of his striped suit in the seventies,
thanks to that much defamed man, Brockway, and a few others.

We may have to restrain men for the good of themselves and the good of society, but we do not
punish. The restraint is punishment enough; we believe men are punished by their sins, not
for them.

When men are sent to reform schools now, the endeavor and the hope is to give back to society
a better man than we took.

Judge Lindsey sends boys to the reform school without officer or guard. The boys go of their
own accord, carrying their own commitment papers. They pound on the gate demanding admittance
in the name of the law. The boy believes that Judge Lindsey is his friend, and that the reason
he is sent to the reform school is that he may reap a betterment which his full freedom cannot
possibly offer. When he takes his commitment papers he is no longer at war with society and
the keepers of the law. He believes that what is being done for him is done for the best, and
so he goes to prison, which is really not a prison at the last, for it is a school where the
lad is taught to economize both time and money and to make himself useful.

Other people work for us, and we must work for them. This is the supreme lesson that the boy
learns. You can only help yourself by helping others.

Now here is a proposition: If a boy or a man takes his commitment papers, goes to prison alone
and unattended, is it necessary that he should be there locked up, enclosed in a corral and
be looked after by guards armed with death-dealing implements?

Superintendent Whittaker, of the institution at Jeffersonville, Indiana, says, "No." He believes
that within ten years' time we will do away with the high wall, and will keep our loaded guns
out of sight; to a great degree also we will take the bars from the windows of the prisons,
just as we have taken them away from the windows of the hospitals for the insane.

At the reform school it may be necessary to have a guard-house for some years to come, but
the high wall must go, just as we have sent the lock-step and the silent system and the striped
suit of disgrace into the ragbag of time--lost in the memory of things that were.

Four men out of five in the reformatory at Jeffersonville need no coercion, they would not
run away if the walls were razed and the doors left unlocked. One young man I saw there refused
the offered parole--he wanted to stay until he learned his trade. He was not the only one with
a like mental attitude.

The quality of men in the average prison is about the same as that of the men who are in the
United States Army. The man who enlists is a prisoner; for him to run away is a very serious
offense, and yet he is not locked up at night, nor is he surrounded by a high wall.

The George Junior Republic is simply a farm, unfenced and unpatroled, excepting by the boys
who are in the Republic, and yet it is a penal institution. The prison of the future will not
be unlike a young ladies' boarding school, where even yet the practice prevails of taking the
inmates out all together, with a guard, and allowing no one to leave without a written permit.

As society changes, so changes the so-called criminal. In any event, I know this--that Max
Nordau did not make out his case.

There is no criminal class.

Or for that matter we are all criminals. "I have in me the capacity for every crime," said Emerson.

The man or woman who goes wrong is a victim of unkind environment. Booker Washington says that
when the negro has something that we want, or can perform a task that we want done, we waive
the color line, and the race problem then ceases to be a problem. So it is with the Ex. In architecture and
the arts, France leads America. We saw for France not a single steel field than can be found in France, where
efficiency is not the word so much as does the American. Neither of course, does he enjoy so
large a remuneration. This must be admitted by any fair-minded person
familiar with the facts.

But in industrial affairs the story is different. Our country has adopted more progressive and efficient
methods in the industrial plant that could compare in comfort of
the workers.

This is particularly true of the iron and steel business.

On the whole, wages are much less in proportion to individual production
in France than in this country. Nations like men profit by experience.
The French people have records of history and civilization extending
beyond the days of the north which had been captured by the Germans,
perhaps it is not altogether fair to make this comparison.

Nevertheless the same impression who was gained in the inspection of other industrial operations. The French
workman is more artistic but he does not move so rapidly or produce so much as is the efficiency with
the great plants of country. No wonder then that they excel us in many things; the wonder is that they
do not excel in all. By this is meant that in none of the plants visited was the output per man nearly
so great or the share enjoyed by the worker nearly so large, as is
the rule in this country.

Since we did not see the plants to the Roman Empire, and that civilization has gone
steadily forward through many centuries.
 If he is dissatisfied with his pay, Captain,
Lieutenant and Colonel chip in--they cannot afford to lose him. He is a rara avis--the apple
of their eye.

His first requirement is that he must be able to lick any man in the company. A drunken private
may damn a captain upside down and wrong-side out, and the captain is not allowed to reply.
He can neither strike with his fist, nor engage in a cussing match, but your able sergeant
is an adept in both of these polite accomplishments. Even if a private strike an officer, the
officer is not allowed to strike back. Perhaps the man who abuses him could easily beat him
in a rough-and-tumble fight, and then it is quite a sufficient reason to keep one's clothes
clean. We say the revolver equalizes all men, but it doesn't. It is disagreeable to shoot a
man. It scatters brains and blood all over the sidewalk, attracts a crowd, requires a deal
of explanation afterward, and may cost an officer his stripes. No good officer ever hears anything
said about him by a private.

The sergeant hears everything, and his reply to backslack is a straight-arm jab in the jaw.
The sergeant is responsible only to his captain, and no good captain will ever know anything
about what a sergeant does, and he will not believe it when told. If a fight occurs between
two privates, the sergeant jumps in, bumps their heads together and licks them both. If a man
feigns sick, or is drunk, the sergeant chucks him under the pump. The regulations do not call
for any such treatment, but the sergeant does not know anything about the regulations--he gets
the thing done. The sergeant may be twenty years old or sixty--age does not count. The sergeant
is a father to his men--he regards them all as children--bad boys--and his business is to make
them brave, honorable and dutiful soldiers.

The sergeant is always the first man up in the morning, the last man to go to bed at night.
He knows where his men are every minute of the day or night. If they are actually sick, he
is both nurse and physician, and dictates gently to the surgeon what should be done. He is
also the undertaker, and the digging of ditches and laying out of latrines all fall to his
lot. Unlike the higher officers, he does not have to dress "smart," and he is very apt to discard
his uniform and go clothed like a civilian teamster, excepting on special occasions when necessity
demands braid and buttons.

He knows everything, and nothing. No wild escapade of a higher officer passes by him, yet he
never tells.

Now one might suppose that he is an absolute tyrant, but a good sergeant is a beneficent tyrant
at the right time. To break the spirit of his men will not do--it would unfit them for service--so
what he seeks to do is merely to bend their minds so as to match his own. Gradually they grow
to both love and fear him. In time of actual fight he transforms cowards into heroes. He holds
his men up to the scratch. In battle there are often certain officers marked for death--they
are to be shot by their own men. It is a time of getting even--and in the hurly-burly and excitement
there are no witnesses. The sergeant is ever on the lookout for such mutinies, and his revolver
often sends to the dust the head revolutionary before the dastardly plot can be carried out.
In war-time all executions are not judicial.

In actual truth, the sergeant is the only real, sure-enough fighting man in the army. He is
as rare as birds' teeth, and every officer anxiously scans his recruits in search of good sergeant
timber. 

Every so-called heresy, regarding, as it does, its own creed as the truth, can just as easily lose in Church history
a series of illustrations of own creed, can use all Pressense's arguments
on its own creed the one truly Christian creed.

"The author's whole argument amounts to this: since ubi Christus ibi Ecclesia, then Christus is
where we are. But of course at any given time and place men always believe
in something or other; and this belief in something, indefinite at
any doctrine in which the theory of ideas had no place, and can call
its own stead, and one would deservedly have excited the ridicule
of Greece by trying to pass off Epicurus or Zeno as a disciple of
the Academy.

While ostensibly widening its realm, one undermines it.

It all amounts to this: that every opinion which differs from the code of dogmas we believe in at
a given time, is heresy. To say that gnosticism or ebionitism are legitimate forms of Christian
thought, one must boldly deny the existence of Christian thought
at all, or any specific character by which it could be recognized.

And will not this presumption be transformed into certainty if we recognize in the doctrine universally
rejected by the Church the characteristic features of one of the
religions of the past?

No one in the clip of Plato would lave ventured to give his name to a place, at some time, cannot be
a criterion of truth. Let us recognize, then, that if a religion or
a doctrine exists which is called Adventism, it may have its heresies.


The Spirit of the Age

Four hundred and twenty-five years before the birth of the Nazarene, Socrates said, "The gods
are on high Olympus, but you and I are here." And for this--and a few other similar observations--be
was compelled to drink a substitute for coffee--he was an infidel! Within the last thirty years
the churches of Christendom have, in the main, adopted the Socratic proposition that you and
I are here. That is, we have made progress by getting away from narrow theology and recognizing
humanity. We do not know anything about either Olympus or Elysium, but we do know something
about Athens.

Athens is here.

Athens needs us--the Greeks are at the door. Let the gods run Elysium, and we'll devote ourselves
to Athens.

This is the prevailing spirit in the churches of America to-day. Our religion is humanitarian,
not theological.

A like evolution has come about in medicine. The materia medica of twenty-five years ago is
now obsolete. No good doctor now treats symptoms--he neither gives you something to relieve
your headache nor to settle your stomach. These are but timely ting-a-lings--Nature's warnings--look
out! And the doctor tells you so, and charges you a fee sufficient to impress you with the
fact that he is no fool, but that you are.

The lawyer who now gets the largest fees is never seen in a court-room. Litigation is now largely
given over to damage suits--carried on by clients who want something for nothing, and little
lawyers, shark-like and hungry, who work on contingent fees. Three-fourths of the time of all
superior and supreme courts is taken up by His Effluvia, who brings suit thru His Bacteria,
with His Crabship as chief witness, for damages not due, either in justice or fact.

How to get rid of this burden, brought upon us by men who have nothing to lose, is a question
too big for the average legislator. It can only be solved by heroic measures, carried out by
lawyers who are out of politics and have a complete indifference for cheap popularity. Here
is opportunity for men of courage and ability. But the point is this, wise business men keep
out of court. They arbitrate their differences --compromise--they cannot afford to quit their
work for the sake of getting even. As for making money, they know a better way.

In theology we are waiving distinctions and devoting ourselves to the divine spirit only as
it manifests itself in humanity--we are talking less and less about another world and taking
more notice of the one we inhabit. Of course we occasionally have heresy trials, and pictures
of the offender and the Fat Bishop adorn the first page, but heresy trials not accompanied
by the scaffold or the faggots are innocuous and exceedingly tame.

In medicine we have more faith in ourselves and less in prescriptions.

In pedagogy we are teaching more and more by the natural method--learning by doing--and less
and less by means of injunction and precept.

In penology we seek to educate and reform, not to suppress, repress and punish.

That is to say, the gods are on high Olympus--let them stay there. Athens is here.

The Grammarian

The best way to learn to write is to write.

Herbert Spencer never studied grammar until he had learned to write. He took his grammar at
sixty, which is a good age for one to begin this most interesting study, as by the time you
have reached that age you have largely lost your capacity to sin.

Men who can swim exceedingly well are not those who have taken courses in the theory of swimming
at natatoriums, from professors of the amphibian art--they were just boys who jumped into the
ol' swimmin' hole, and came home with shirts on wrong-side out and a tell-tale dampness in
their hair.

Correspondence schools for the taming of bronchos are as naught; and treatises on the gentle
art of wooing are of no avail--follow nature's lead.

Grammar is the appendenda vermiformis of the science of pedagogics: it is as useless as the
letter q in the alphabet, or the proverbial two tails to a cat, which no cat ever had, and
the finest cat in the world, the Manx cat, has no tail at all.

"The literary style of most university men is commonplace, when not positively bad," wrote
Herbert Spencer in his old age.

"Educated Englishmen all write alike," said Taine. That is to say, educated men who have been
drilled to write by certain fixed and unchangeable rules of rhetoric and grammar will produce
similar compositions. They have no literary style, for style is individuality and character--the
style is the man, and grammar tends to obliterate individuality. No study is so irksome to
everybody, except the sciolists who teach it, as grammar. It remains forever a bad taste in
the mouth of the man of ideas, and has weaned bright minds innumerable from a desire to express
themselves through the written word.

Grammar is the etiquette of words, and the man who does not know how to properly salute his
grandmother on the street until he has consulted a book, is always so troubled about the tenses
that his fancies break thru language and escape.

The grammarian is one whose whole thought is to string words according to a set formula. The
substance itself that he wishes to convey is of secondary importance. Orators who keep their
thoughts upon the proper way to gesticulate in curves, impress nobody.

If it were a sin against decency, or an attempt to poison the minds of the people, for a person
to be ungrammatical, it might be wise enough to hire men to protect the well of English from
defilement. But a stationary language is a dead one--moving water only is pure--and the well
that is not fed by springs is sure to be a breeding-place for disease.

Let men express themselves in their own way, and if they express themselves poorly, look you,
their punishment will be that no one will read their literary effusions. Oblivion with her
smother-blanket lies in wait for the writer who has nothing to say and says it faultlessly.

In the making of hare soup, I am informed by most excellent culinary authority, the first requisite
is to catch your hare. The literary scullion who has anything to offer a hungry world, will
doubtless find a way to fricassee it.

The Best Religion

A religion of just being kind would be a pretty good religion, don't you think so?

But a religion of kindness and useful effort is nearly a perfect religion.

We used to think it was a man's belief concerning a dogma that would fix his place in eternity.
This was because we believed that God was a grumpy, grouchy old gentleman, stupid, touchy and
dictatorial. A really good man would not damn you even if you didn't like him, but a bad man would. 

A dispatch of the beginning of March, (Old Style,) in the principal
chain of the Carpathians, we only held the region of the Dukla pass,
where our lines formed an exterior angle from the Commander in Chief
transforms: at the Headquarters Staff.



We are weaving character every day, and the way to weave the best character is to be kind and
to be useful.

THINK RIGHT, ACT RIGHT; IT IS WHAT WE THINK AND DO THAT MAKE US WHAT WE ARE.

So here ends LOVE, LIFE AND WORK, being a book of Essays selected from the writings of ELBERT
HUBBARD, and done into print by The Roycrofters at their Shop at East Aurora, which is in Erie
County, New York, U.S.A. Completed in the month of July, MCMVI

