Toward the eastern extremity of this peaceful, happy scene is the village of Kachahurda, which
I reach soon after noon, and where resides Mfrdura Ghana, to whom I bring a letter.  Picturesquely
speaking, Kachahurda is a disgrace to the neighborhood in which it stands; its mud hovels are
combined cow-pens, chicken-coops, and human habitations, and they are bunched up together without
any pretence to order or regularity; yet the light-hearted, decently-clad people, whose songs
come floating from the harvest-fields, live contentedly in this and other equally wretched
villages round about.  Mudura Ghana provides me with a repast of bread and yaort, and endeavors
to make my brief halt comfortable.  While I am discussing these refreshments, himself and another
unwashed, unkempt old party come to high, angry words about me; but whatever it is about I
haven't the slightest idea.  Mine host seems a regular old savage when angry.  He is the happy
possessor of a pair of powerful lungs, which are ably seconded by a foghorn voice, and he howls
at the other man like an enraged bull.  The other man doesn't seem to mind it, though, and
keeps up his end of the controversy - or whatever it is - in a comparatively cool and aggravating
manner, that seems to feed Mudura Ghana's righteous wrath, until I quite expect to see that
outraged person reach down one of the swords off the wall and hack his opponent into sausage-meat.
Once I venture to inquire, as far as one can inquire by pantomime, what they are quarrelling
so violently about me for, being really inquisitive to find out They both immediately cease
hostilities to assure me that it is nothing for which I am in any way personally responsible;
and then they straightway fall to glaring savagely at each other again, and renew their vocal
warfare more vigorously, if anything, from having just drawn a peaceful breath.  Mine host
of Kachahurda can scarcely be called a very civilized or refined individual; he has neither
the gentle kindliness of Kirkoragha Vartarian, nor the dignified, gentlemanly bearing of Tifticjeeoghlou
Effendi; but he grabs a club, and roaring like the hoarse whistle of a Mississippi steamboat,
chases a crowd of villagers out of the room who venture to come in on purpose to stare rudely
at his guest; and for this charitable action alone he deserves much credit; nothing is so annoying
as to have these unwashed crowds standing gazing and commenting while one is eating.  A man
is sent with me to direct me aright where the road forks, a mile or so from the village; from
the forks it is a newly made road, in fact, unfinished; it resembles a ploughed field for looseness
and I depth; and when, in addition to this, one has to climb a gradient of twenty metres to
the hundred, a bicycle is anything but a comforting thing to possess.  The country becomes
broken and more mountainous than ever, and the road winds about fearfully.  Often a part of
the road that is but a mile away as the crow flies requires an hour's steady going to reach
it; but the mountain scenery is glorious.  Occasionally I round a point, or reach a summit,
from whence a magnificent and comprehensive view bursts upon the vision, and it really requires
an effort to tear one's self away, realizing that in all probability I shall never see it again.
At one point I seem to be overlooking a vast amphitheatre which encompasses within itself the
physical geography of a continent.  It is traversed by whole mountain-ranges of lesser degree;
it contains tracts of stony desert and fertile valley, lakes, and a river, not excepting even
the completing element of a fine forest, and encompassing it round about, like an impenetrable
palisade protecting it against invasion, are scores of grand old mountains - grim sentinels
that nothing can overcome.  The road, though still among the mountains, is now descending in
a general way from the elevated divide, down toward Enderes and the valley of the Gevmeili
Chai River; and toward evening I enter an Armenian village.

The custom from here eastward appears to be to have the threshing-floors in or near the village;
there are sometimes several different floors, and when they are winnowing the grain on windy
days the whole village becomes covered with an inch or two of chaff.  I am glad to find these
threshing-floors in the villages, because they give me an excellent opportunity to ride and
satisfy the people, thus saving me no end of worry and annoyance.

The air becomes chilly after sundown, and I am shown into a close room containing one small
air-hole, and am provided with a quilt and pillow. Later in the evening a Turkish Bey arrives
with an escort of zaptiehs and occupies the same apartment, which would seem to be a room especially
provided for the accommodation of travellers.  The moment the officer arrives, behold, there
is a hurrying to and fro of the villagers to sweep out the room, kindle a fire to brew his
coffee, and to bring him water and a vessel for his ablutions before saying his evening prayers.
Cringing senility characterizes the demeanor of these Armenian villagers toward the Turkish
officer, and their hurrying hither and thither to supply him ere they are asked looks to me
wonderfully like a "propitiating of the gods." The Bey himself seems to be a pretty good sort
of a fellow, offering me a portion of his supper, consisting of bread, olives, and onions;
which, however, I decline, having already ordered eggs and pillau of a villager.  The Bey's
company is highly acceptable, since it saves me from the annoyance of being surrounded by the
usual ragged, unwashed crowd during the evening, and secures me a refreshing sleep, undisturbed
by visions of purloined straps or moccasins.  He appears to be a very pious Mussulman; after
washing his head, hands, and feet, he kneels toward Mecca on the wet towel, and prays for nearly
twenty minutes by my timepiece; and his sighs of Allah! are wonderfully deep-fetched, coming
apparently from clear down in his stomach.  While he is thus devotionally engaged, his two
zaptiehs stand respectfully by, and divide their time between eying myself and the bicycle
with wonder and the Bey with mingled reverence and awe.  At early dawn I steal noiselessly
away, to avoid disturbing the peaceful slumbers of the Bey.  For several miles my road winds
around among the foot-hills of the range I crossed yesterday, but following a gradually widening
depression, which finally terminates in the Gevmeili Chai Valley; and directly ahead and below
me lies the considerable town of Enderes, surrounded by a broad fringe of apple-orchards, and
walnut and jujube groves.  Here I obtain a substantial breakfast of Turkish kabobs (tid-bits
of mutton, spitted on a skewer, and broiled over a charcoal fire) at a public eating khan,
after which the mudir kindly undertakes to explain to me the best route to Erzingan, giving
me the names of several villages to inquire for as a guidance.  While talking to the mudir,
Mr. Pronatti, an Italian engineer in the employ of the Sivas Vali, makes his appearance, shakes
hands, reminds me that Italy has recently volunteered assistance to England in the Soudan campaign,
and then conducts me to his quarters in another part of the town.  Mr. Pronatti can speak almost
any language but English; I speak next to nothing but English; nevertheless, we manage to converse
quite readily, for, besides proficiency in pantomimic language acquired by daily practice,
I have necessarily picked up a few scattering words of the vernacular of the several countries
traversed on the tour.  While discussing a nice ripe water-melon with this gentleman, several
respectable- looking people enter and introduce themselves through Mr. Pronatti as Osmanli
Turks, not Armenians, expecting me to regard them more favorably on that account.  Soon afterward
a party of Armenians arrive, and take labored pains to impress upon me that they are not Turks,
but Christian Armenians.  Both parties seem desirous of winning my favorable opinion. One party
thinks the surest plan is to let me know that they are Turks; the others, to let me know that
they are not Turks.  "I have told both parties to go to Gehenna," says my Italian friend. 
"These people will worry you to death with their foolishness if you make the mistake of treating
them with consideration."

Donning an Indian pith-helmet that is three sizes too large, and wellnigh conceals his features,
Mr. Pronatti orders his horse, and accompanies me some distance out, to put me on the proper
course to Erzingan.  My route from Enderes leads along a lovely fertile valley, between lofty
mountain ranges; an intricate network of irrigating ditches, fed by, mountain streams, affords
an abundance of water for wheat-fields, vineyards, and orchards; it is the best, and yet the
worst watered valley I ever saw - the best, because the irrigating ditches are so numerous;
the worst, because most of them are overflowing and converting my road into mud-holes and shallow
pools.  In the afternoon I reach somewhat higher ground, where the road becomes firmer, and
I bowl merrily along eastward, interrupted by nothing save the necessity of dismounting and
shedding my nether garments every few minutes to ford a broad, swift feeder to the lesser ditches
lower down the valley.  In this fructiferous vale my road sometimes leads through areas of
vineyards surrounded by low mud walls, where grapes can be had for the reaching, and where
the proprietor of an orchard will shake down a shower of delicious yellow pears for whatever
you like to give him, or for nothing if one wants him to.  I suppose these villagers have established
prices for their commodities when dealing with each other, but they almost invariably refuse
to charge me anything; some will absolutely refuse any payment, and my only plan of recompensing
them is to give money to the children; others accept, with as great a show of gratitude as
if I were simply giving it to them without having received an equivalent, whatever I choose
to give.

The numerous irrigating ditches have retarded my progress to an appreciable extent to-day,
so that, notwithstanding the early start and the absence of mountain-climbing, my cyclometer
registers but a gain of thirty-seven miles, when, having continued my eastward course for some
time after nightfall, and failing to reach a village, I commence looking around for somewhere
to spend the night.  The valley of the Gevmeili Chai has been left behind, and I am again traversing
a narrow, rocky pass between the hills.  Among the rocks I discover a small open cave, in which
I determine to spend the night.  The region is elevated, and the night air chilly; so I gather
together some dry weeds and rubbish and kindle a fire.  With something to cook and eat, and
a pair of blankets, I could have spent a reasonably comfortable night; but a pocketful of pears
has to suffice for supper, and when the unsubstantial fuel is burned away, my airy chamber
on the bleak mountain-side and the thin cambric tent affords little protection from the insinuating
chilliness of the night air. Variety is said to be the spice of life; no doubt it is, under
certain conditions, but I think it all depends on the conditions whether it is spicy or not
spicy.  For instance, the vicissitudes of fortune that favor me with bread and sour milk for
dinner, a few pears for supper, and a wakeful night of shivering discomfort in a cave, as the
reward of wading fifty irrigating ditches and traversing thirty miles of ditch-bedevilled donkey-trails
during the day, may look spicy, and even romantic, from a distance; but when one wakes up in
a cold shiver about 1.30A.M. and realizes that several hours of wretchedness are before him,
his waking thoughts are apt to be anything but thoughts complimentary of the spiciness of the
situation.  Inshallah! fortune will favor me with better dues to- morrow; and if not to-morrow,
then the next day, or the next.

CHAPTER XVII.

THROUGH ERZINGAN AND ERZEROUM.

For mile after mile, on the following morning, my route leads through broad areas strewn with
bowlders and masses of rock that appear to have been brought down from the adjacent mountains
by the annual spring floods, caused by the melting winter's snows; scattering wheat-fields
are observed here and there on the higher patches of ground, which look like small yellow oases
amid the desert-like area of loose rocks surrounding them. Squads of diminutive donkeys are
seen picking their weary way through the bowlders, toiling from the isolated fields to the
village threshing-floors beneath small mountains of wheat-sheaves.  Sometimes the donkeys themselves
are invisible below the general level of the bowlders, and nothing is to be seen but the head
and shoulders of a man, persuading before him several animated heaps of straw.  Small lakes
of accumulated surface-water are passed in depressions having no outlet; thickets and bulrushes
are growing around the edges, and the surfaces of some are fairly black with multitudes of
wild-ducks.  Soon I reach an Armenian village; after satisfying the popular curiosity by riding
around their threshing-floor, they bring me some excellent wheat-bread, thick, oval cakes that
are quite acceptable, compared with the wafer-like sheets of the past several days, and five
boiled eggs.  The people providing these will not accept any direct payment, no doubt thinking
my having provided them with the only real entertainment most of them ever saw, a fair equivalent
for their breakfast; but it seems too much like robbing paupers to accept anything from these
people without returning something, so I give money to the children.  These villagers seem
utterly destitute of manners, standing around and watching my efforts to eat soft-boiled eggs
with a pocket-knife with undisguised merriment.  I inquire for a spoon, but they evidently
prefer to extract amusement from watching my interesting attempts with the pocket-knife.  One
of them finally fetches a clumsy wooden ladle, three times broader than an egg, which, of course
is worse than nothing.  I now traverse a mountainous country with a remarkably clear atmosphere.
The mountains are of a light creamcolored shaly composition; wherever a living stream of water
is found, there also is a village, with clusters of trees.  From points where a comprehensive
view is obtainable the effect of these dark-green spots, scattered here and there among the
whitish hills, seen through the clear, rarefied atmosphere, is most beautiful.  It seems a
peculiar feature of everything in the East - not only the cities themselves, but even of the
landscape - to look beautiful and enchanting at a distance; but upon a closer approach all
its beauty vanishes like an illusory dream.  Spots that from a distance look, amid their barren,
sun-blistered surroundings, like lovely bits of fairyland, upon closer investigation degenerate
into wretched habitations of a ragged, poverty-stricken people, having about them a few neglected
orchards and vineyards, and a couple of dozen straggling willows and jujubes.

For many hours again to-day I am traversing mountains, mountains, nothing but mountains; following
tortuous camel-paths far up their giant slopes. Sometimes these camel-paths are splendidly
smooth, and make most excellent riding.  At one place, particularly, where they wind horizontally
around the mountain-side, hundreds of feet above a village immediately below, it is as though
the villagers were in the pit of a vast amphitheatre, and myself were wheeling around a semicircular
platform, five hundred feet above them, but in plain view of them all.  I can hear the wonder-struck
villagers calling each other's attention to the strange apparition, and can observe them swarming
upon the house-tops.  What wonderful stories the inhabitants of this particular village will
have to recount to their neighbors, of this marvellous sight, concerning which their own unaided
minds can give no explanation!

Noontide comes and goes without bringing me any dinner, when I emerge upon a small, cultivated
plateau, and descry a coterie of industrious females reaping together in a field near by, and
straightway turn my footsteps thitherward with a view of ascertaining whether they happen to
have any eatables.  No sooner do they observe me trundling toward them than they ingloriously
flee the field, thoughtlessly leaving bag and baggage to the tender mercies of a ruthless invader.
Among their effects I find some bread and a cucumber, which I forthwith confiscate, leaving
a two and a half piastre metallique piece in its stead; the affrighted women are watching me
from the safe distance of three hundred yards; when they return and discover the coin they
will wish some 'cycler would happen along and frighten them away on similar conditions every
day. Later in the afternoon I find myself wandering along the wrong trail; not a very unnatural
occurrence hereabout, for since leaving the valley of the Gevmeili Chai, it has been difficult
to distinguish the Erzingan trail from the numerous other trails intersecting the country in
every direction.  On such a journey as this one seems to acquire a certain amount of instinct
concerning roads; certain it is, that I never traverse a wrong trail any distance these days
ere, without any tangible evidence whatever, I feel instinctively that I am going astray. 
A party of camel- drivers direct me toward the lost Erzingan trail, and in an hour I am following
a tributary of the ancient Lycus River, along a valley where everything looks marvellously
green and refreshing; it is as though I have been suddenly transferred into an entirely different
country.

This innovation from barren rocks and sun-baked shale to a valley where the principal crops
seem to be alfalfa and clover, and which is flanked on the south by dense forests of pine,
encroaching downward from the mountain slopes clear on to the level greensward, is rather an
agreeable surprise; the secret of the magic change does not remain a secret long; it reveals
itself in the shape of sundry broad snow-patches still lingering on the summits of a higher
mountain range beyond.  These pine forests, the pleasant greensward, and the lingering snow-banks,
tell an oft-repeated tale; they speak eloquently of forests preserved and the winter snow-fall
thereby increased; they speak all the more eloquently because of being surrounded by barren,
parched-up hills which, under like conditions, might produce similar happy results, but which
now produce nothing.  While traversing this smiling valley I meet a man asleep on a buffalo
araba; an irrigating ditch runs parallel with the road and immediately alongside; the meek-eyed
buffaloes swerve into the ditch in deference to their awe of tho bicycle, arid upset their
drowsy driver into the water.  The mail evidently stands in need of a bath, but somehow he
doesn't seeiu to appreciate it; perhaps it happened a trifle too impromptu, as it were, to
suit his easy-going Asiatic temperament.  He returns my rude, unsympathetic smile with a prolonged
stare of bewilderment, but says nothing.

Soon I meet a boy riding on a donkey, and ask him the postaya distance to Erzingan; the youth
looks frightened half out of his. senses, but manages to retain sufficient presence of mind
to elevate one finger, by which I understand him to mean that it is one hour, or about four
miles. Accordingly I pedal perseveringly ahead, hoping to reach the city before dusk, at the
same time feeling rather surprised at finding it so near, as I haven't been expecting to reach
there before to-morrow.  Five miles beyond where I met the boy, and just after sundown, I overtake
some katir-jees en route to Erzingan with donkey-loads of grain, and ask them the same question.
From them I learn that instead of one, it is not less than twelve hours distant, also that
the trail leads over a fearfully mountainous country.  Nestling at the base of the mountains,
a short distance to the northward, is the large village of Merriserriff, and not caring to
tempt the fates into giving me another supper-less night in a cold, cheerless cave, I wend
my way thither.

Fortune throws me into the society of an Armenian whose chief anxiety seems to be, first, that
I shall thoroughly understand that he is an Armenian, and not a Mussulman; and, secondly, to
hasten me into the presence of the mudir, who is a Mussulman, and a Turkish Bey, in order that
he may bring himself into the mudir's favorable notice by personally introducing me as a rare
novelty on to his (the mudir's) threshing-floor. The official and a few friends are sipping
coffee in one corner of the threshing floor, and, although I don't much relish my position
of the Armenian's puppet-show, I give the mudir an exhibition of the bicycle's use, in the
expectation that he will invite me to remain his guest over night.

He proves uncourteous, however, not even inviting me to partake of coffee; evidently, he has
become so thoroughly accustomed to the abject servility of the Armenians about him - who would
never think of expecting reciprocating courtesies from a social superior - that he has unconsciously
come to regard everybody else, save those whom he knows as his official superiors, as tarred,
more or less, with the same feather.  In consequence of this belief I am not a little gratified
when, upon the point of leaving the threshing-floor, an occasion offers of teaching him different.

Other friends of the mudir's appear upon the scene just as I am leaving, and he beckons me
to come back and bin for the enlightenment of the new arrivals.  The Armenian's countenance
fairly beams with importance at thus being, as it were, encored, and the collected villagers
murmur their approval; but I answer the mudir's beckoned invitation by a negative wave of the
hand, signifying that I can't bother with him any further. The common herd around regard this
self-assertive reply with open-mouthed astonishment, as though quite too incredible for belief;
it seems to them an act of almost criminal discourtesy, and those immediately about me seem
almost inclined to take me back to the threshing-floor like a culprit.  But the mudir himself
is not such a blockhead but that he realizes the mistake he has made.  He is too proud to acknowledge
it, though; consequently his friends miss, perhaps, the only opportunity in their uneventful
lives of seeing a bicycle ridden.  Owing to my ignorance of the vernacular, I am compelled
to drift more or less with the tide of circumstances about me, upon entering one of these villages,
for accommodation, and make the best of whatever capricious chance provides. My Armenian "manager
" now delivers me into the hands of one of his compatriots, from whom I obtain supper and a
quilt, sleeping, from a not over extensive choice, on some straw, beneath the broad eaves of
a log granary adjoining the house.

I am for once quite mistaken in making an early, breakfastless start, for it proves to be eighteen
weary miles over a rocky mountain pass before another human habitation is reached, a region
of jagged rocks, deep gorges, and scattered pines.  Fortunately, however, I am not destined
to travel the whole eighteen miles in a breakfastless condition-not quite a breakfastless condition.
Perhaps half the distance is traversed, when, while trundling up the ascent, I meet a party
of horsemen, a turbaned old Turk, with an escort of three zaptiehs, and another traveller,
who is keeping pace with them for company and safety.  The old Turk asks me to bin bacalem,
supplementing the request by calling my attention to his turban, a gorgeously spangled affair
that would seem to indicate the wearer to be a personage of some importance; I observe, also
that the butt of his revolver is of pearl inlaid with gold, another indication of either rank
or opulence.  Having turned about and granted his request, I in turn call his attention to
the fact that mountain climbing on an empty stomach is anything but satisfactory or agreeable,
and give him a broad hint by inquiring how far it is before ekmek is obtainable.  For reply,
he orders a zaptieh to produce a wheaten cake from his saddle-bags, and the other traveller
voluntarily contributes three apples, which he ferrets out from the ample folds of his kammerbund
and off this I make a breakfast.  Toward noon, the highest elevation of the pass is reached,
and I commence the descent toward the Erzingan Valley, following for a number of miles the
course of a tributary of the western fork of the Euphrates, known among the natives in a general
sense as the "Frat;" this particular branch is locally termed the Kara Su, or black water.
The stream and my road lead down a rocky defile between towering hills of rock and slaty formation,
whose precipitous slopes vegetable nature seems to shun, and everything looks black and desolate,
as though some blighting curse had fallen upon the place.  Up this same rocky passage-way,
eight summers ago, swarmed thousands of wretched refugees from the seat of war in Eastern Armenia;
small oblong mounds of loose rocks and bowlders are frequently observed all down the ravine,
mournful reminders of one of the most heartrending phases of the Armenian campaign; green lizards
are scuttling about among the rude graves, making their habitations in the oblong mounds. 
About two o'clock I arrive at a road-side khan, where an ancient Osmanli dispenses feeds of
grain for travellers' animals, and brews coffee for the travellers themselves, besides furnishing
them with whatever he happens to possess in the way of eatables to such as are unfortunately
obliged to patronize his cuisine or go without anything; among this latter class belongs, unhappily,
my hungry self.  Upon inquiring for refreshments the khan-jee conducts me to a rear apartment
and exhibits for my inspection the contents of two jars, one containing the native idea of
butter and the other the native conception of a soft variety of cheese; what difference is
discoverable between these two kindred products is chiefly a difference in the degree of rancidity
and odoriferousuess, in which respect the cheese plainly carries off the honors; in fact these
venerable and esteemable qualities of the cheese are so remarkably developed that after one
cautious peep into its receptacle I forbear to investigate their comparative excellencies any
further; but obtaining some bread and a portion of the comparatively mild and inoffensive butter,
I proceed to make the best of circumstances. The old khan-jee proves himself a thoughtful,
considerate landlord, for as I eat he busies himself picking the most glaringly conspicuous
hairs out of my butter with the point of his dagger.  One is usually somewhat squeamish regarding
hirsute butter, but all such little refinements of civilized life as hairless butter or strained
milk have to be winked at to a greater or less extent in Asiatic travelling, especially when
depending solely on what happens to turn up from one meal to another. The narrow, lonely defile
continues for some miles eastward from the khan, and ere I emerge from it altogether I encounter
a couple of ill- starred natives, who venture upon an effort to intimidate me into yielding
up my purse.  A certain Mahmoud Ali and his band of enterprising freebooters have been terrorizing
the villagers and committing highway robberies of late around the country; but from the general
appearance of these two, as they approach, I take them to be merely villagers returning home
from Erzingan afoot.  They are armed with Circassian guardless swords and flint-lock horse-pistols;
upon meeting they address some question to me in Turkish, to which I make my customary reply
of Tarkchi binmus; one of them then demands para (money) in a manner that leaves something
of a doubt whether he means it for begging, or is ordering me to deliver. In order to the better
discover their intentions, I pretend not to understand, whereupon the spokesman reveals their
meaning plain enough by reiterating the demand in a tone meant to be intimidating, and half
unsheatns his sword in a significant manner.  Intuitively the precise situation of affairs
seems to reveal itself in a moment; they are but ordinarily inoffensive villagers returning
from Erzingan, where they have sold and squandered even the donkeys they rode to town; meeting
me alone, and, as they think in the absence of outward evidence that I am unarmed, they have
become possessed ot tue idea of retrieving their fortunes by intimidating me out of money.
Never were men more astonished and taken aback at finding me armed, and they both turn pale
and fairly shiver with fright as I produce the Smith & Wesson from its inconspicuous position
at my hip, and hold it on a level with the bold spokesman's head; they both look as if they
expected their last hour had arrived and both seem incapable either of utterance or of running
away; in fact, their embarrassment is so ridiculous that it provokes a smile and it is with
anything but a threatening or angry voice that I bid them haidy. The bold highwaymen seem only
too thankful of a chance to "haidy," and they look quite confused, and I fancy even ashamed
of themselves, as they betake themselves off up the ravine.  I am quite as thankful as themselves
at getting off without the necessity of using my revolver, for had I killed or badly wounded
one of them it would probably have caused no end of trouble or vexatious delay, especially
in case they prove to be what I take them for, instead of professional robbers; moreover, I
might not have gotten off unscathed myself, for while their ancient flint-locks were in all
probability not even loaded, being worn more for appearances by the native than anything else,
these fellows sometimes do desperate work with their ugly and ever-handy swords when cornered
up, in proof of which we have the late dastardly assault on the British Consul at Erzeroum,
of which we shall doubtless hear the particulars upon reaching that city.  Before long the
ravine terminates, and I emerge upon the broad and smiling Erzingan Valley; at the lower extremity
of the ravine the stream has cut its channel through an immense depth of conglomerate formation,
a hundred feet of bowlders and pebbles cemented together by integrant particles which appear
to have been washed down from the mountains-probably during the subsidence of the deluge, for
even if that great catastrophe were a comparatively local occurrence, instead of a universal
flood, as some profess to believe, we are now gradually creeping up toward Ararat, so that
this particular region was undoubtedly submerged.  What appear to be petrified chunks of wood
are interspersed through the mass.  There is nothing new under the sun, they say; peradventure
they may be sticks of cooking-stove wood indignantly cast out of the kitchen window of the
ark by Mrs. Noah, because the absent-minded patriarch habitually persisted in cutting them
three inches too long for the stove; who knows.  I now wheel along a smooth, level road leading
through several orchard-environed villages; general cultivation and an atmosphere of peace
and plenty seems to pervade the valley, which, with its scattering villages amid the foliage
of their orchards, looks most charming upon emerging from the gloomy environments of the rock-ribbed
and verdureless ravine; a fitting background is presented on the south by a mountain-chain
of considerable elevation, upon the highest peaks of which still linger tardy patches of snow.

