STORIES FROM HANS ANDERSEN

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY EDMUND DULAC

HODDER & STOUGHTON LIMITED   LONDON

ILLUSTRATIONS

THE SNOW QUEEN
                                                             PAGE
One day he was in a high state of delight because he had
invented a mirror                                               5

Many a winter's night she flies through the streets            11

Then an old, old woman came out of the house                   23

She has read all the newspapers in the world, and forgotten them again, so clever is she  
37

'It is gold, it is gold!' they cried                           51

Kissed her on the mouth, while big shining tears trickled down its face                   
63

The Snow Queen sat in the very middle of it when she sat at home                          
71

THE NIGHTINGALE

Even the poor fisherman ... lay still to listen to it          81

'Is it possible?' said the gentleman-in-waiting. 'I should never have thought it was like that'
89

Took some water into their mouths to try and make the same gurgling, ... thinking so to equal
the nightingale             95

The music-master wrote five-and-twenty volumes about the artificial bird                  
101

Even Death himself listened to the song                       109

THE REAL PRINCESS

'I have hardly closed my eyes the whole night! Heaven knows what was in the bed. I seemed to
be lying upon some hard thing, and my whole body is black and blue this morning. It is terrible!'
Frontispiece

THE GARDEN OF PARADISE

His grandmother had told him ... that every flower in the Garden of Paradise was a delicious
cake                       117

The Eastwind flew more swiftly still                          131

The Fairy of the Garden now advanced to meet them             139

The Fairy dropped her shimmering garment, drew back the branches, and a moment after was hidden
within their depths   147

THE MERMAID

The Merman King had been for many years a widower             155

He must have died if the little mermaid had not come to the rescue                        
169

At the mere sight of the bright liquid                        183

The prince asked who she was and how she came there           189

Dashed overboard and fell, her body dissolving into foam      199

THE EMPEROR'S NEW CLOTHES

The poor old minister stared as hard as he could, but he could not see anything           
209

Then the Emperor walked along in the procession under the gorgeous canopy, and everybody in
the streets and at the windows exclaimed, 'How beautiful the Emperor's new clothes are!'  
215

THE WIND'S TALE

She played upon the ringing lute, and sang to its tones       225

She was always picking flowers and herbs                      233

He lifted it with a trembling hand and shouted with a trembling voice: 'Gold! gold!'      
241

Waldemar Daa hid it in his bosom, took his staff in his hand, and, with his three daughters,
the once wealthy gentleman walked out of Borreby Hall for the last time        247

THE SNOW QUEEN

A TALE IN SEVEN STORIES

FIRST STORY

WHICH DEALS WITH A MIRROR AND ITS FRAGMENTS

Now we are about to begin, and you must attend; and when we get to the end of the story, you
will know more than you do now about a very wicked hobgoblin. He was one of the worst kind;
in fact he was a real demon. One day he was in a high state of delight because he had invented
a mirror with this peculiarity, that every good and pretty thing reflected in it shrank away
to almost nothing. On the other hand, every bad and good-for-nothing thing stood out and looked
its worst. The most beautiful landscapes reflected in it looked like boiled spinach, and the
best people became hideous, or else they were upside down and had no bodies. Their faces were
distorted beyond recognition, and if they had even one freckle it appeared to spread all over
the nose and mouth. The demon thought this immensely amusing. If a good thought passed through
any one's mind, it turned to a grin in the mirror, and this caused real delight to the demon.
All the scholars in the demon's school, for he kept a school, reported that a miracle had taken
place: now for the first time it had become possible to see what the world and mankind were
really like. They ran about all over with the mirror, till at last there was not a country
or a person which had not been seen in this distorting mirror. They even wanted to fly up to
heaven with it to mock the angels; but the higher they flew, the more it grinned, so much so
that they could hardly hold it, and at last it slipped out of their hands and fell to the earth,
shivered into hundreds of millions and billions of bits. Even then it did more harm than ever.
Some of these bits were not as big as a grain of sand, and these flew about all over the world,
getting into people's eyes, and, once in, they stuck there, and distorted everything they looked
at, or made them see everything that was amiss. Each tiniest grain of glass kept the same power
as that possessed by the whole mirror. Some people even got a bit of the glass into their hearts,
and that was terrible, for the heart became like a lump of ice. Some of the fragments were
so big that they were used for window panes, but it was not advisable to look at one's friends
through these panes. Other bits were made into spectacles, and it was a bad business when people
put on these spectacles meaning to be just. The bad demon laughed till he split his sides;
it tickled him to see the mischief he had done. But some of these fragments were still left
floating about the world, and you shall hear what happened to them.

SECOND STORY

ABOUT A LITTLE BOY AND A LITTLE GIRL

In a big town crowded with houses and people, where there is no room for gardens, people have
to be content with flowers in pots instead. In one of these towns lived two children who managed
to have something bigger than a flower pot for a garden. They were not brother and sister,
but they were just as fond of each other as if they had been. Their parents lived opposite
each other in two attic rooms. The roof of one house just touched the roof of the next one,
with only a rain-water gutter between them. They each had a little dormer window, and one only
had to step over the gutter to get from one house to the other. Each of the parents had a large
window-box, in which they grew pot herbs and a little rose-tree. There was one in each box,
and they both grew splendidly. Then it occurred to the parents to put the boxes across the
gutter, from house to house, and they looked just like two banks of flowers. The pea vines
hung down over the edges of the boxes, and the roses threw out long creepers which twined round
the windows. It was almost like a green triumphal arch. The boxes were high, and the children
knew they must not climb up on to them, but they were often allowed to have their little stools
out under the rose-trees, and there they had delightful games. Of course in the winter there
was an end to these amusements. The windows were often covered with hoar-frost; then they would
warm coppers on the stove and stick them on the frozen panes, where they made lovely peep-holes,
as round as possible. Then a bright eye would peep through these holes, one from each window.
The little boy's name was Kay, and the little girl's Gerda.

In the summer they could reach each other with one bound, but in the winter they had to go
down all the stairs in one house and up all the stairs in the other, and outside there were
snowdrifts.

'Yes, indeed they have,' said the grandmother. 'She flies where the swarm is thickest. She
is biggest of them all, and she never remains on the ground. She always flies up again to the sky.

In the evening when little Kay was at home and half undressed, he crept up on to the chair
by the window, and peeped out of the little hole. A few snow-flakes were falling, and one of
these, the biggest, remained on the edge of the window-box. It grew bigger and bigger, till
it became the figure of a woman, dressed in the finest white gauze, which appeared to be made
of millions of starry flakes. She was delicately lovely, but all ice, glittering, dazzling
ice. Still she was alive, her eyes shone like two bright stars, but there was no rest or peace
in them. She nodded to the window and waved her hand. The little boy was frightened and jumped
down off the chair, and then he fancied that a big bird flew past the window.

The next day was bright and frosty, and then came the thaw--and after that the spring. The
sun shone, green buds began to appear, the swallows built their nests, and people began to
open their windows. The little children began to play in their garden on the roof again. The
roses were in splendid bloom that summer; the little girl had learnt a hymn, and there was
something in it about roses, and that made her think of her own. She sang it to the little
boy, and then he sang it with her--

    'Where roses deck the flowery vale,
    There, Infant Jesus, we thee hail!'

The children took each other by the hands, kissed the roses, and rejoiced in God's bright sunshine,
and spoke to it as if the Child Jesus were there. What lovely summer days they were, and how
delightful it was to sit out under the fresh rose-trees, which seemed never tired of blooming.

Kay and Gerda were looking at a picture book of birds and animals one day--it had just struck
five by the church clock--when Kay said, 'Oh, something struck my heart, and I have got something
in my eye!'

The little girl put her arms round his neck, he blinked his eye; there was nothing to be seen.

'I believe it is gone,' he said; but it was not gone. It was one of those very grains of glass
from the mirror, the magic mirror. You remember that horrid mirror, in which all good and great
things reflected in it became small and mean, while the bad things were magnified, and every
flaw became very apparent.

Poor Kay! a grain of it had gone straight to his heart, and would soon turn it to a lump of
ice. He did not feel it any more, but it was still there.

'Why do you cry?' he asked; 'it makes you look ugly; there's nothing the matter with me. How
horrid!' he suddenly cried; 'there's a worm in that rose, and that one is quite crooked; after
all, they are nasty roses, and so are the boxes they are growing in!' He kicked the box and
broke off two of the roses.

'What are you doing, Kay?' cried the little girl. When he saw her alarm, he broke off another
rose, and then ran in by his own window, and left dear little Gerda alone. He did it very well
and people laughed at him. He was soon able to imitate every one in the street; he could make
fun of all their peculiarities and failings. 'He will turn out a clever fellow,' said people.
But it was all that bit of glass in his heart, that bit of glass in his eye, and it made him
tease little Gerda who was so devoted to him. He played quite different games now; he seemed
to have grown older.

'Do you see how cleverly they are made?' said Kay. 'Much more interesting than looking at real
flowers. And there is not a single flaw in them; they are perfect, if only they would not melt.'

Shortly after, he appeared in his thick gloves, with his sledge on his back. He shouted right
into Gerda's ear, 'I have got leave to drive in the big square where the other boys play!'
and away he went.

In the big square the bolder boys used to tie their little sledges to the farm carts and go
a long way in this fashion. They had no end of fun over it. Just in the middle of their games
a big sledge came along; it was painted white, and the occupant wore a white fur coat and cap.
The sledge drove twice round the square, and Kay quickly tied his sledge on behind. Then off
they went, faster, and faster, into the next street. The driver turned round and nodded to
Kay in the most friendly way, just as if they knew each other. Every time Kay wanted to loose
his sledge the person nodded again, and Kay stayed where he was, and they drove right out through
the town gates. Then the snow began to fall so heavily that the little boy could not see a
hand before him as they rushed along. He undid the cords and tried to get away from the big
sledge, but it was no use, his little sledge stuck fast, and on they rushed, faster than the
wind. He shouted aloud, but nobody heard him, and the sledge tore on through the snow-drifts.
Every now and then it gave a bound, as if they were jumping over hedges and ditches. He was
very frightened, and he wanted to say his prayers, but he could only remember the multiplication
tables.

The snow-flakes grew bigger and bigger, till at last they looked like big white chickens. All
at once they sprang on one side, the big sledge stopped and the person who drove got up, coat
and cap smothered in snow. It was a tall and upright lady all shining white, the Snow Queen
herself.

'We have come along at a good pace,' she said; 'but it's cold enough to kill one; creep inside
my bearskin coat.'

She took him into the sledge by her, wrapped him in her furs, and he felt as if he were sinking
into a snowdrift.

'Are you still cold?' she asked, and she kissed him on the forehead. Ugh! it was colder than
ice, it went to his very heart, which was already more than half ice; he felt as if he were
dying, but only for a moment, and then it seemed to have done him good; he no longer felt the cold.

'My sledge! don't forget my sledge!' He only remembered it now; it was tied to one of the white
chickens which flew along behind them. The Snow Queen kissed Kay again, and then he forgot
all about little Gerda, Grandmother, and all the others at home.

'Now I mustn't kiss you any more,' she said, 'or I should kiss you to death!'

Kay looked at her, she was so pretty; a cleverer, more beautiful face could hardly be imagined.
She did not seem to be made of ice now, as she was outside the window when she waved her hand
to him.

STORY THREE

THE GARDEN OF THE WOMAN LEARNED IN MAGIC

But how was little Gerda getting on all this long time since Kay left her? Where could he be?
Nobody knew, nobody could say anything about him. All that the other boys knew was, that they
had seen him tie his little sledge to a splendid big one which drove away down the street and
out of the town gates. Nobody knew where he was, and many tears were shed; little Gerda cried
long and bitterly. At last, people said he was dead; he must have fallen into the river which
ran close by the town. Oh, what long, dark, winter days those were!

At last the spring came and the sunshine.

'Kay is dead and gone,' said little Gerda.

'I don't believe it,' said the sunshine.

'He is dead and gone,' she said to the swallows.

'Is it true that you have taken my little playfellow? I will give you my red shoes if you will
bring him back to me again.'

She thought the little ripples nodded in such a curious way, so she took off her red shoes,
her most cherished possessions, and threw them both into the river. They fell close by the
shore, and were carried straight back to her by the little wavelets; it seemed as if the river
would not accept her offering, as it had not taken little Kay.

She only thought she had not thrown them far enough; so she climbed into a boat which lay among
the rushes, then she went right out to the further end of it, and threw the shoes into the
water again. But the boat was loose, and her movements started it off, and it floated away
from the shore: she felt it moving and tried to get out, but before she reached the other end
the boat was more than a yard from the shore, and was floating away quite quickly.

Little Gerda was terribly frightened, and began to cry, but nobody heard her except the sparrows,
and they could not carry her ashore, but they flew alongside twittering, as if to cheer her,
'We are here, we are here.' The boat floated rapidly away with the current; little Gerda sat
quite still with only her stockings on; her little red shoes floated behind, but they could
not catch up the boat, which drifted away faster and faster.

The banks on both sides were very pretty with beautiful flowers, fine old trees, and slopes
dotted with sheep and cattle, but not a single person.

'Perhaps the river is taking me to little Kay,' thought Gerda, and that cheered her; she sat
up and looked at the beautiful green banks for hours. Gerda called out again, louder than before,
and then an old, old woman came out of the house; she was leaning upon a big, hooked stick,
and she wore a big sun hat, which was covered with beautiful painted flowers.

'You poor little child,' said the old woman, 'how ever were you driven out on this big, strong
river into the wide, wide world alone?' Then she walked right into the water, and caught hold
of the boat with her hooked stick; she drew it ashore, and lifted little Gerda out.

Gerda was delighted to be on dry land again, but she was a little bit frightened of the strange
old woman.

'Come, tell me who you are, and how you got here,' said she.

When Gerda had told her the whole story and asked her if she had seen Kay, the woman said she
had not seen him, but that she expected him. Gerda must not be sad, she was to come and taste
her cherries and see her flowers, which were more beautiful than any picture-book; each one
had a story to tell. Then she took Gerda by the hand, they went into the little house, and
the old woman locked the door.

The windows were very high up, and they were red, blue, and yellow; they threw a very curious
light into the room. On the table were quantities of the most delicious cherries, of which
Gerda had leave to eat as many as ever she liked.

'I have long wanted a little girl like you!' said the old woman. 'You will see how well we
shall get on together.' While she combed her hair Gerda had forgotten all about Kay, for the
old woman was learned in the magic art; but she was not a bad witch, she only cast spells over
people for a little amusement, and she wanted to keep Gerda. She therefore went into the garden
and waved her hooked stick over all the rose-bushes, and however beautifully they were flowering,
all sank down into the rich black earth without leaving a trace behind them. The old woman
was afraid that if Gerda saw the roses she would be reminded of Kay, and would want to run
away. Then she took Gerda into the flower garden. What a delicious scent there was! and every
imaginable flower for every season was in that lovely garden; no picture-book could be brighter
or more beautiful. Then she was put into a lovely bed with rose-coloured silken coverings stuffed
with violets; she slept and dreamt as lovely dreams as any queen on her wedding day.

The next day she played with the flowers in the garden again--and many days passed in the same
way. Gerda knew every flower, but however many there were, she always thought there was one
missing, but which it was she did not know. This is the consequence of being absent-minded.

'What!' said Gerda, 'are there no roses here?' and she sprang in among the flower-beds and
sought, but in vain! Her hot tears fell on the very places where the roses used to be; when
the warm drops moistened the earth the rose-trees shot up again, just as full of bloom as when
they sank. Gerda embraced the roses and kissed them, and then she thought of the lovely roses
at home, and this brought the thought of little Kay.

'Oh, how I have been delayed,' said the little girl, 'I ought to have been looking for Kay!
Don't you know where he is?' she asked the roses. 'Do you think he is dead and gone?'

'He is not dead,' said the roses. 'For we have been down underground, you know, and all the
dead people are there, but Kay is not among them.'

'Oh, thank you!' said little Gerda, and then she went to the other flowers and looked into
their cups and said, 'Do you know where Kay is?'

But each flower stood in the sun and dreamt its own dreams. Little Gerda heard many of these,
but never anything about Kay.

And what said the Tiger lilies?

'Do you hear the drum? rub-a-dub, it has only two notes, rub-a-dub, always the same. The wailing
of women and the cry of the preacher. The Hindu woman in her long red garment stands on the
pile, while the flames surround her and her dead husband. But the woman is only thinking of
the living man in the circle round, whose eyes burn with a fiercer fire than that of the flames
which consume the body. Do the flames of the heart die in the fire?'

'I understand nothing about that,' said little Gerda.

'That is my story,' said the Tiger lily.

'What does the convolvulus say?'

'An old castle is perched high over a narrow mountain path, it is closely covered with ivy,
almost hiding the old red walls, and creeping up leaf upon leaf right round the balcony where
stands a beautiful maiden. Her silken robes rustle softly as she bends over and says, 'Will
he never come?''

'Is it Kay you mean?' asked Gerda.

'I am only talking about my own story, my dream,' answered the convolvulus.

What said the little snowdrop?

'Between two trees a rope with a board is hanging; it is a swing. Two pretty little girls in
snowy frocks and green ribbons fluttering on their hats are seated on it. A little black dog
runs up, he is almost as light as the bubbles, he stands up on his hind legs and wants to be
taken into the swing, but it does not stop. The little dog falls with an angry bark; they jeer
at it; the bubble bursts. A swinging plank, a fluttering foam picture--that is my story!'

'I daresay what you tell me is very pretty, but you speak so sadly and you never mention little
Kay.'

What says the hyacinth?

'They were three beautiful sisters, all most delicate, and quite transparent. One wore a crimson
robe, the other a blue, and the third was pure white. These three danced hand-in-hand, by the
edge of the lake in the moonlight. They were human beings, not fairies of the wood. The fragrant
air attracted them, and they vanished into the wood; here the fragrance was stronger still.
Three coffins glide out of the wood towards the lake, and in them lie the maidens. The Book of the
Indians, by Samuel G. Drake, Boston, 1811, Book V, Ch.

III, p. 52.]

Parkman [Footnote: The Conspiracy of Pontiac, by Francis Parkman,
Boston, 1870, Vol.

1, p. 339.] concludes a vivid description of the surprise and massacre of the garrison at
Michilimackinac, based upon authentic facts, as follows: "Bushing and striking, tripping their
adversaries, or hurling them to the ground, they pursued the animating contest amid the laughter
and applause of the spectators. Suddenly, from the midst of the multitude, the ball soared
into the air and, descending in a wide curve, fell near the pickets of the fort. This was no
chance stroke. It was part of a preconcerted scheme to insure the surprise and destruction
of the garrison. As if in pursuit of the ball, the players turned
and came rushing, a maddened and tumultuous throng, towards the gate.

In a moment they had reached it. The amazed English had no time to think or act. The shrill cries
of the ball-players were changed to the ferocious war-whoop. The warriors snatched from the squaws
the hatchets which the latter, with this design, had concealed beneath
their blankets.

Some of the Indians assailed the spectators without, while others
rushed into the fort, and all was carnage and confusion."

Thus we see that the favorite game of ball of the North American Indians, known to-day, as it was
in 1636, by the name of "lacrosse," was potent among them as a remedial exercise or superstitious
rite to cure diseases and avert disaster; that it formed part of stately ceremonials which were
intended to entertain and amuse distinguished guests; and that it was made use of as a stratagem
of war, by means of which to lull the suspicions of the enemy and to gain access to their forts.

The
descriptions of lacrosse which have been transmitted to us, would
often prove unintelligible to one who had never seen the game played.

The writers of the accounts which have come down to us from the early part of the seventeenth century
were men whose lives were spent among the scenes which they described
and they had but little time, and few opportunities for careful writing.

The individual records though somewhat confused enable us easily to identify the game, and a
comparison of the different accounts shows how thoroughly the main features of the game have
been preserved.

Lacrosse is played to-day as follows: The number of players on the
opposing sides should be equal.

Regular stations are assigned in the rules for playing the game, for twelve on each side. Goals,
each consisting of two upright posts or staffs, generally about six
feet apart and of equal height, are planted at each end of the field.

The length of the field and its bounds are determined by the character of the ground and the
skill of the players.

The effort of each side is to prevent the ball from passing through the goal assigned to its
protection, and equally to try to drive it through the opposite goal.

Under no circumstances can the ball be touched during the game, while
within the bounds, by the hands of the players.

Each player has a racket, the length of which, though optional, is ordinarily from four to five
feet. One end of this racket or bat is curved like a shepherd's crook, and from the curved end
a thong is carried across to a point on the handle about midway its length. In the space thus
enclosed between the thong and the handle, which at its broadest
part should not exceed a foot in width, a flat network is interposed.

    This forms the bat.

It is with this that the player picks up and throws the ball used in the game, which should
be about eight or nine inches in circumference. The ball is placed in the centre of the field by
the umpire, and when the game is called, the opposing players strive
to get possession of it with their rackets.

The play consists in running with it and throwing it, with the design
of driving it between the adversary's goal posts; and in defensive
action, the purpose of which is to prevent the opponents from accomplishing
similar designs on their part.

As the wind or the sunlight may favor one side or the other on any field, provision is generally
made for a change of goals during the match.

The stations of the players and the minor rules of the game are unimportant in this connection.

The
oldest attempt at a detailed description of the game is given by Nicolas Perrot who from 1662
to 1699 spent the greater part of his time as coureur de bois, trader, or government agent,
among the Indians of the far West. It is of him that Abbe Ferland says, "Courageous man, honest
writer and good observer, Perrot lived for a long time among the Indians of the West who were
very much attached to him." His accounts of the manners and customs of the North American Indians
have been liberally used by subsequent writers and as the part treating of games is not only
very full but also covers a very early period of history, it is doubly interesting for purposes
of comparison with games of a later day. Their natural fondness for them is so great that they
will neglect food and drink, not only to join in a game but even to look at one. There is among
them a certain game of cross which is very similar to our tennis. Their custom in playing it
is to match tribe against tribe, and if the numbers are not equal they render them so by withdrawing
some of the men from the stronger side.

You see them all armed with a cross, that is to say a stick which has a large portion at the bottom,
laced like a racket. The ball with which they play is of wood and of nearly the shape of a
turkey's egg. The goals of the game are fixed in an open field.

These goals face to the east and to the west, to the north and to the south." Then follows a somewhat
confused description of the method and the rules of the contest from which we can infer that
after a side had won two goals they changed sides of the field with their opponents, and that
two out of three, or three out of five goals decided the game.

Reading Perrot's description in connection with that given by de la Potherie of the game played
before Perrot by the Miamis, helps us to remove the confusion of the account. Abbe Ferlande [Footnote:
Cours d'Histoire du Canada, par J.B. Ferland, Quebec, 1861, Vol.

I, p. 134.] describes the game. He was a diligent student of all
sources of authority upon these subjects and was probably familiar
with the modern game.

His account of the Indian game follows that of Perrot so closely
as to show that it was his model.

It is, however, clear and distinct in its details, free from the
confusion which attends Perrot's account and might almost serve for
a description of the game as played by the Indians to-day.

Perrot was a frontier-man and failed when he undertook to describe anything that required careful
and exact use of language. We can only interpret him intelligently by combining his descriptions
with those of other writers and applying our own knowledge of the game as we see it to-day.
He is, however, more intelligible when he gets on more general ground, and after having disposed
of the technicalities of the game, he proceeds: "Men, women, boys and girls are received on the
sides which they make up, and they wager between themselves more or less according to their
means."

"These games ordinarily begin after the melting of the ice and they
last even to seed time.

In the afternoon one sees all the players bedecked and painted. Each party has its leader who
addresses them, announcing to his players the hour fixed for opening the game. The players
assemble in a crowd in the middle of the field and one of the leaders of the two sides, having
the ball in his hands casts it into the air. Each one then tries to throw it towards the side where
he ought to send it. If it falls to the earth, the player tries to draw it to him with his cross.
If it is sent outside the crowd, then the most active players, by
closely pursuing it, distinguish themselves.

You hear the noise which they make striking against each other and
warding off blows, in their strife to send the ball in the desired
direction.

When one of them holds the ball between his feet, it is for him, in his unwillingness to let
it go, to avoid the blows which his adversaries incessantly shower down upon his feet. Should
he happen to be wounded at this juncture, he alone is responsible for it. It has happened that
some have had their legs broken, others their arms and some have been killed. It is not uncommon
to see among them those who are crippled for life and who could only
be at such a game by an act of sheer obstinacy.

When accidents of this kind happen, the unfortunate withdraws quietly from the game if he can
do so.

If his injury will not permit him, his relations carry him to the cabin and the game continues
until it is finished as if nothing bad happened."

"When the sides are equal the players will occupy an entire afternoon without either side gaining
any advantage; at other times one of the two will gain the two games
that they need to win.

In this game you would say to see them run that they looked like
two parties who wanted to fight.

This exercise contributes much to render the savages alert and prepared to avoid blows from the
tomahawk of an enemy, when they find themselves in a combat. Without being told in advance that
it was a game, one might truly believe that they fought in open country. Whatever accident the
game may cause, they attribute it to the chance of the game and have
no ill will towards each other.

The suffering is for the wounded, who bear it contentedly as if nothing had happened, thus making
it appear that they have a great deal of courage and are men."

"The side that wins takes whatever has been put up on the game and whatever there is of profit,
and that without any dispute on the part of the others when it is a question of paying, no
matter what the kind of game.

Nevertheless, if some person who is not in the game, or who has not bet anything, should throw
the ball to the advantage of one side or the other, one of those whom the throw would not help would
attack him, demanding if this is his affair and why he has mixed
himself with it.

They often come to quarrel about this and if some of the chiefs did not reconcile them, there
would be blood shed and perhaps some killed."

Originally, the game was open to any number of competitors. According to the Relation of 1636, "Village
was pitted against village." "Tribe was matched against tribe," says Perrot. The number engaged
in the game described by La Potherie [Footnote: Vol.

II, p. 126.] was estimated by him at two thousand. LaHontan [Footnote: Memoires de L'Amerique
Septentrionale, ou la Suite des Voyages de Mr. Le Baron de LaHontan, Amsterdam, 1705, Vol.
II, p. 113.] says that "the savages commonly played it in large companies
of three or four hundred at a time," while Charlevoix [Footnote: Histoire
de la Nouvelle France.

Journal d'un Voyage. etc, par le P. de Charlevoix, Paris, 1744, Vol.

III, p. 319.] says the number of players was variable and adds "for instance if they are eighty,"
thus showing about the number he would expect to find in a game. When Morgan [Footnote: League
of the Iroquois, by Lewis H. Morgan, Rochester, 1851, p. 294.] speaks of six or eight on a side,
he must allude to a later period, probably after the game was modified by the whites who had adopted
it among their amusements.

Our earliest accounts of the game as played by the Indians in the south are about one hundred years
later than the corresponding records in the north. Adair [Footnote: The History of the American
Indians, particularly those Nations adjoining to the Mississippi, etc, by James Adam, London,
1775, p. 399.] says the gamesters are equal in number and speaks
of "the crowd of players" preventing the one who "catches the ball
from throwing it off with a long direction."

Bossu [Footnote: Travels through that Part of North America formerly called Louisiana, by Mr.
Bossu, Captain in the French Marines. Translated from the French by John Hemhold Forster, London,
1771, Vol.

I, p. 304.] says, "they are forty on each side," while Bartram [Footnote: Travels through North
and South Carolina, etc., by William Bartram, Philadelphia, 1701,
p. 508.] says, "the inhabitants of one town play against another in
consequence of a challenge."

From this it would seem that among those Indians, as at the North, the number of players was
governed only by the circumstances under which the game was played.

The ball, originally of wood, [Footnote: La Potherie, Vol. II, p. 126; Perrot, p. 44.] was replaced
by one made of deer skin. Adair gives the following description of its manufacture: "The ball
is made of a piece of scraped deerskin, moistened, and stuffed hard with deer's hair, and
strongly sewed with deer's sinews." [Footnote: p. 400.]

According to Morgan the racket has undergone a similar change, from a curved wooden head to the
curved stick with open network, but we have seen in the earliest
description at our command, that in the days of Perrot the cross was
"laced like a racket."

[Footnote: League of the Iroquois. p. 298; Perrot p. 44.]

The game was played not only by the Indians of our Coast, but Powers [Footnote: Contributions
to North American Ethnology, Vol. III, p. 151. Tribes of California by Stephen Powers; The
same game is described among the Meewocs in The Native Races of the Pacific States by H. H. Bancroft,
Vol. I, p. 393.] found it also among the Californian Indians. He describes a game of tennis
played by the Pomo Indians in Russian River Valley, of which he had heard nothing among the northern
tribes. "A ball is rounded out of an oak knot as large as those used by school boys, and it
is propelled by a racket which is constructed of a long slender stick, bent double and bound
together, leaving a circular hoop at the extremity, across which is woven a coarse meshwork
of strings. Such an implement is not strong enough for batting the ball, neither do they bat
it, but simply shove or thrust it along the ground."

Paul Kane [Footnote: Wanderings of an Artist among the Indians of North America by Paul Kane,
p. 190; H. H. Bancroft's Native Races, Vol.

I, p. 244.] describes a game played among the Chinooks.

He says "They also take great delight in a game with a ball which
is played by them in the same manner as the Cree, Chippewa and Sioux
Indians.

Two poles are erected about a mile apart, and the company is divided into two bands armed with
sticks, having a small ring or hoop at the end with which the ball
is picked up and thrown to a great distance, each party striving to
get the ball past their own goal.

They are sometimes a hundred on a side, and their play is kept up with great noise and excitement.
At this play they bet heavily as it is generally played between tribes or villages."

Domenech [Footnote: Seven Years' Residence in the Great Deserts of North America by the Abbe
Em. Domenech, Vol. II, pp. 192, 193.] writing about the Indians of the interior, calls the
game "cricket," and says the players were costumed as follows: "Short drawers, or rather a
belt, the body being first daubed over with a layer of bright colors;
from the belt (which is short enough to leave the thighs free) hangs
a long tail, tied up at the extremity with long horse hair; round
their necks is a necklace, to which is attached a floating mane, dyed
red, as is the tail, and falling in the way of a dress fringe over
the chest and shoulders.

In the northwest, in the costume indispensable to the players, feathers are sometimes substituted
for horse hair." He adds "that some tribes play with two sticks" and that it is played in "winter
on the ice." "The ball is made of wood or brick covered with kid-skin leather, sometimes of leather
curiously interwoven."

Schoolcraft describes the game as played in the winter on the ice.

[Footnote: Schoolcraft's North American Indians, Vol. II, p. 78.

See also Ball-play among the Dicotis, in Philander Prescott's paper, Ibid, Vol. IV, p. 64.]

It
will be observed that the widest difference prevails in the estimate of the distance apart at
which the goals are set. Henry, in his account of the game at Michilimackinac says "they are at
a considerable distance from each other, as a mile or more." Charlevoix places the goals in
a game with eighty players at "half a league apart" meaning probably half a mile. LaHontan estimates
the distance between the goals at "five or six hundred paces."

Adair, [Footnote: Henry, p. 78 Chulevoix Vol. III, p. 319, Kane's
Wanderings, p. 189, LaHontan, Vol.


But now tell me again what you told me before about little Kay, and why you went out into the
world.' So Gerda told her all about it again, and the wood pigeons cooed up in their cage above
them; the other pigeons were asleep. The little robber girl put her arm round Gerda's neck
and went to sleep with the knife in her other hand, and she was soon snoring. This sight terrified
the poor little girl. Then the wood pigeons said, 'Coo, coo, we have seen little Kay; his sledge
was drawn by a white chicken, and he was sitting in the Snow Queen's sledge; it was floating
low down over the trees, while we were in our nests. She blew upon us young ones, and they
all died except we two; coo, coo.'

'What are you saying up there?' asked Gerda. 'Where was the Snow Queen going? Do you know anything
about it?'

'She was most likely going to Lapland, because there is always snow and ice there! Ask the
reindeer who is tied up there.'

'There is ice and snow, and it's a splendid place,' said the reindeer. 'You can run and jump
about where you like on those big glittering plains. Do you know where Lapland is?' she asked
the reindeer.

'Who should know better than I,' said the animal, its eyes dancing. 'I was born and brought
up there, and I used to leap about on the snowfields.'

'Listen,' said the robber girl.

As soon as her mother had had her draught from the bottle and had dropped asleep, the little
robber girl went along to the reindeer, and said, 'I should have the greatest pleasure in the
world in keeping you here, to tickle you with my knife, because you are such fun then; however,
it does not matter. I will untie your halter and help you outside so that you may run away
to Lapland, but you must put your best foot foremost, and take this little girl for me to the
Snow Queen's palace, where her playfellow is. I have no doubt you heard what she was telling
me, for she spoke loud enough, and you are generally eavesdropping!'

The reindeer jumped into the air for joy. The robber girl lifted little Gerda up, and had the
forethought to tie her on, nay, even to give her a little cushion to sit upon. 'Here, after
all, I will give you your fur boots back, for it will be very cold, but I will keep your muff,
it is too pretty to part with. Still you shan't be cold. Here are my mother's big mittens for
you, they will reach up to your elbows; here, stick your hands in! Now your hands look just
like my nasty mother's!'

Gerda shed tears of joy.

'I don't like you to whimper!' said the little robber girl. 'You ought to be looking delighted;
and here are two loaves and a ham for you, so that you shan't starve.'

These things were tied on to the back of the reindeer; the little robber girl opened the door,
called in all the big dogs, and then she cut the halter with her knife, and said to the reindeer,
'Now run, but take care of my little girl!'

Gerda stretched out her hands in the big mittens to the robber girl and said good-bye; and
then the reindeer darted off over briars and bushes, through the big wood, over swamps and
plains, as fast as it could go. The wolves howled and the ravens screamed, while the red lights
quivered up in the sky.

'There are my old northern lights,' said the reindeer; 'see how they flash!' and on it rushed
faster than ever, day and night. The loaves were eaten, and the ham too, and then they were
in Lapland.

SIXTH STORY

THE LAPP WOMAN AND THE FINN WOMAN

They stopped by a little hut, a very poverty-stricken one; the roof sloped right down to the
ground, and the door was so low that the people had to creep on hands and knees when they wanted
to go in or out. Gerda was so overcome by the cold that she could not speak at all.

'Oh, you poor creatures!' said the Lapp woman; 'you've got a long way to go yet; you will have
to go hundreds of miles into Finmark, for the Snow Queen is paying a country visit there, and
she burns blue lights every night. I will write a few words on a dried stock-fish, for I have
no paper. I will give it to you to take to the Finn woman up there. She will be better able
to direct you than I can.'

So when Gerda was warmed, and had eaten and drunk something, the Lapp woman wrote a few words
on a dried stock-fish and gave it to her, bidding her take good care of it. Then she tied her
on to the reindeer again, and off they flew. Flicker, flicker, went the beautiful blue northern
lights up in the sky all night long;--at last they came to Finmark, and knocked on the Finn
woman's chimney, for she had no door at all.

There was such a heat inside that the Finn woman went about almost naked; she was little and
very grubby. She at once loosened Gerda's things, and took off the mittens and the boots, or
she would have been too hot. Then she put a piece of ice on the reindeer's head, and after
that she read what was written on the stock-fish. She read it three times, and then she knew
it by heart, and put the fish into the pot for dinner; there was no reason why it should not
be eaten, and she never wasted anything.

Again the reindeer told his own story first, and then little Gerda's. The Finn woman blinked
with her wise eyes, but she said nothing.

'You are so clever,' said the reindeer, 'I know you can bind all the winds of the world with
a bit of sewing cotton. When a skipper unties one knot he gets a good wind, when he unties
two it blows hard, and if he undoes the third and the fourth he brings a storm about his head
wild enough to blow down the forest trees. Won't you give the little girl a drink, so that
she may have the strength of twelve men to overcome the Snow Queen?'

'The strength of twelve men,' said the Finn woman. 'Yes, that will be about enough.'

She went along to a shelf and took down a big folded skin, which she unrolled. There were curious
characters written on it, and the Finn woman read till the perspiration poured down her forehead.

But the reindeer again implored her to give Gerda something, and Gerda looked at her with such
beseeching eyes, full of tears, that the Finn woman began blinking again, and drew the reindeer
along into a corner, where she whispered to it, at the same time putting fresh ice on its head.

'Little Kay is certainly with the Snow Queen, and he is delighted with everything there. He
thinks it is the best place in the world, but that is because he has got a splinter of glass
in his heart and a grain of glass in his eye. Don't you see how great it is? Don't you see
how both man and beast have to serve her? How she has got on as well as she has on her bare
feet? We must not tell her what power she has; it is in her heart, because she is such a sweet
innocent child. If she can't reach the Snow Queen herself, then we can't help her. The Snow
Queen's gardens begin just two miles from here; you can carry the little girl as far as that.
Put her down by the big bush standing there in the snow covered with red berries. Don't stand
gossiping, but hurry back to me!' Then the Finn woman lifted Gerda on the reindeer's back,
and it rushed off as hard as it could.

'Oh, I have not got my boots, and I have not got my mittens!' cried little Gerda.

She soon felt the want of them in that cutting wind, but the reindeer did not dare to stop.
It ran on till it came to the bush with the red berries. There it put Gerda down, and kissed
her on the mouth, while big shining tears trickled down its face.

She ran forward as quickly as she could. A whole regiment of snow-flakes came towards her;
they did not fall from the sky, for it was quite clear, with the northern lights shining brightly.
No; these snow-flakes ran along the ground, and the nearer they came the bigger they grew.
Gerda remembered well how big and ingenious they looked under the magnifying glass. But the
size of these was monstrous. They were alive; they were the Snow Queen's advanced guard, and
they took the most curious shapes. Some looked like big, horrid porcupines, some like bundles
of knotted snakes with their heads sticking out. Others, again, were like fat little bears
with bristling hair, but all were dazzling white and living snow-flakes.

Then little Gerda said the Lord's Prayer, and the cold was so great that her breath froze as
it came out of her mouth, and she could see it like a cloud of smoke in front of her. It grew
thicker and thicker, till it formed itself into bright little angels, who grew bigger and bigger
when they touched the ground. They all wore helmets, and carried shields and spears in their
hands. More and more of them appeared, and when Gerda had finished her prayer she was surrounded
by a whole legion. They pierced the snow-flakes with their spears and shivered them into a
hundred pieces, and little Gerda walked fearlessly and undauntedly through them. The angels
touched her hands and her feet, and then she hardly felt how cold it was, but walked quickly
on towards the Palace of the Snow Queen.

Now we must see what Kay was about. He was not thinking about Gerda at all, least of all that
she was just outside the Palace.

SEVENTH STORY

WHAT HAPPENED IN THE SNOW QUEEN'S PALACE AND AFTERWARDS

The Palace walls were made of drifted snow, and the windows and doors of the biting winds.
There were over a hundred rooms in it, shaped just as the snow had drifted. The biggest one
stretched for many miles. They were all lighted by the strongest northern lights. All the rooms
were immensely big and empty, and glittering in their iciness. There was never any gaiety in
them; not even so much as a ball for the little bears, when the storms might have turned up
as the orchestra, and the polar bears might have walked about on their hind legs and shown
off their grand manners. There was never even a little game-playing party, for such games as
'touch last' or 'the biter bit'--no, not even a little gossip over the coffee cups for the
white fox misses. Immense, vast, and cold were the Snow Queen's halls. The northern lights
came and went with such regularity that you could count the seconds between their coming and
going. In the midst of these never-ending snow-halls was a frozen lake. It was broken up on
the surface into a thousand bits, but each piece was so exactly like the others that the whole
formed a perfect work of art. The Snow Queen sat in the very middle of it when she sat at home.
She then said that she was sitting on 'The Mirror of Reason,' and that it was the best and
only one in the world. He went about dragging some sharp, flat pieces of ice, which he placed
in all sorts of patterns, trying to make something out of them; just as when we at home have
little tablets of wood, with which we make patterns, and call them a 'Chinese puzzle.'

Kay's patterns were most ingenious, because they were the 'Ice Puzzles of Reason.' In his eyes
they were first-rate and of the greatest importance: this was because of the grain of glass
still in his eye. He made many patterns forming words, but he never could find out the right
way to place them for one particular word, a word he was most anxious to make. It was 'Eternity.'
The Snow Queen had said to him that if he could find out this word he should be his own master,
and she would give him the whole world and a new pair of skates. But he could not discover it.

'Now I am going to fly away to the warm countries,' said the Snow Queen. 'I want to go and
peep into the black caldrons!' She meant the volcanoes Etna and Vesuvius by this. 'I must whiten
them a little; it does them good, and the lemons and the grapes too!' And away she flew.

Kay sat quite alone in all those many miles of empty ice halls. He looked at his bits of ice,
and thought and thought, till something gave way within him. He sat so stiff and immovable
that one might have thought he was frozen to death.

Then it was that little Gerda walked into the Palace, through the great gates in a biting wind.
She said her evening prayer, and the wind dropped as if lulled to sleep, and she walked on
into the big empty hall. She saw Kay, and knew him at once; she flung her arms round his neck,
held him fast, and cried, 'Kay, little Kay, have I found you at last?'

But he sat still, rigid and cold. He knew her, and shouted with joy, 'Gerda, dear little Gerda!
where have you been for such a long time? And where have I been?' He looked round and said,
'How cold it is here; how empty and vast!' He kept tight hold of Gerda, who laughed and cried
for joy. The Snow Queen might come home whenever she liked, his order of release was written
there in shining letters of ice.

They took hold of each other's hands and wandered out of the big Palace. They talked about
grandmother, and about the roses upon the roof. Wherever they went the winds lay still and
the sun broke through the clouds. Then they went on to the Lapp woman; she had made new clothes
for them and prepared her sledge. Both the reindeer ran by their side, to the boundaries of
the country; here the first green buds appeared, and they said 'Good-bye' to the reindeer and
the Lapp woman. They heard the first little birds twittering and saw the buds in the forest.
Out of it came riding a young girl on a beautiful horse, which Gerda knew, for it had drawn
the golden chariot. She had a scarlet cap on her head and pistols in her belt; it was the little
robber girl, who was tired of being at home. She was riding northwards to see how she liked
it before she tried some other part of the world. She knew them again, and Gerda recognised
her with delight.

'You are a nice fellow to go tramping off!' she said to little Kay. 'I should like to know
if you deserve to have somebody running to the end of the world for your sake!'

But Gerda patted her cheek, and asked about the Prince and Princess. 'The tame sweetheart is
a widow, and goes about with a bit of black wool tied round her leg. She pities herself bitterly,
but it's all nonsense! But tell me how you got on yourself, and where you found him.'

Gerda and Kay both told her all about it.

'Snip, snap, snurre, it's all right at last then!' she said, and she took hold of their hands
and promised that if she ever passed through their town she would pay them a visit. Then she
rode off into the wide world. But Kay and Gerda walked on, hand in hand, and wherever they
went they found the most delightful spring and blooming flowers. Soon they recognised the big
town where they lived, with its tall towers, in which the bells still rang their merry peals.
They went straight on to grandmother's door, up the stairs and into her room. Everything was
just as they had left it, and the old clock ticked in the corner, and the hands pointed to
the time. As they went through the door into the room they perceived that they were grown up.
The roses clustered round the open window, and there stood their two little chairs. Kay and
Gerda sat down upon them, still holding each other by the hand. All the cold empty grandeur
of the Snow Queen's palace had passed from their memory like a bad dream.

THE NIGHTINGALE

In China, as you know, the Emperor is a Chinaman, and all the people around him are Chinamen
too. It is many years since the story I am going to tell you happened, but that is all the
more reason for telling it, lest it should be forgotten. The emperor's palace was the most
beautiful thing in the world; it was made entirely of the finest porcelain, very costly, but
at the same time so fragile that it could only be touched with the very greatest care. There
were the most extraordinary flowers to be seen in the garden; the most beautiful ones had little
silver bells tied to them, which tinkled perpetually, so that one should not pass the flowers
without looking at them. Every little detail in the garden had been most carefully thought
out, and it was so big, that even the gardener himself did not know where it ended. If one
went on walking, one came to beautiful woods with lofty trees and deep lakes. The wood extended
to the sea, which was deep and blue, deep enough for large ships to sail up right under the
branches of the trees. Among these trees lived a nightingale, which sang so deliciously, that
even the poor fisherman, who had plenty of other things to do, lay still to listen to it, when
he was out at night drawing in his nets. 'Heavens, how beautiful it is!' he said, but then
he had to attend to his business and forgot it. The next night when he heard it again he would
again exclaim, 'Heavens, how beautiful it is!'

Travellers came to the emperor's capital, from every country in the world; they admired everything
very much, especially the palace and the gardens, but when they heard the nightingale they
all said, 'This is better than anything!'

When they got home they described it, and the learned ones wrote many books about the town,
the palace and the garden; but nobody forgot the nightingale, it was always put above everything
else. Those among them who were poets wrote the most beautiful poems, all about the nightingale
in the woods by the deep blue sea. These books went all over the world, and in course of time
some of them reached the emperor. Imagine my having to discover this from a book?'

Then he called his gentleman-in-waiting, who was so grand that when any one of a lower rank
dared to speak to him, or to ask him a question, he would only answer 'P,' which means nothing
at all.

'There is said to be a very wonderful bird called a nightingale here,' said the emperor. 'They
say that it is better than anything else in all my great kingdom! Why have I never been told
anything about it?'

'I have never heard it mentioned,' said the gentleman-in-waiting. 'It has never been presented
at court.'

'I wish it to appear here this evening to sing to me,' said the emperor. 'The whole world knows
what I am possessed of, and I know nothing about it!'

'I have never heard it mentioned before,' said the gentleman-in-waiting. 'I will seek it, and
I will find it!' But where was it to be found? The gentleman-in-waiting ran upstairs and downstairs
and in and out of all the rooms and corridors. No one of all those he met had ever heard anything
about the nightingale; so the gentleman-in-waiting ran back to the emperor, and said that it
must be a myth, invented by the writers of the books. 'Your imperial majesty must not believe
everything that is written; books are often mere inventions, even if they do not belong to
what we call the black art!'

'But the book in which I read it is sent to me by the powerful Emperor of Japan, so it can't
be untrue. I will hear this nightingale; I insist upon its being here to-night. I extend my
most gracious protection to it, and if it is not forthcoming, I will have the whole court trampled
upon after supper!'

'Tsing-pe!' said the gentleman-in-waiting, and away he ran again, up and down all the stairs,
in and out of all the rooms and corridors; half the court ran with him, for they none of them
wished to be trampled on. There was much questioning about this nightingale, which was known
to all the outside world, but to no one at court. At last they found a poor little maid in
the kitchen. She said, 'Oh heavens, the nightingale? I know it very well. Yes, indeed it can
sing. Every evening I am allowed to take broken meat to my poor sick mother: she lives down
by the shore. On my way back, when I am tired, I rest awhile in the wood, and then I hear the
nightingale. Its song brings the tears into my eyes; I feel as if my mother were kissing me!'

'Little kitchen-maid,' said the gentleman-in-waiting, 'I will procure you a permanent position
in the kitchen, and permission to see the emperor dining, if you will take us to the nightingale.
It is commanded to appear at court to-night.'

Then they all went out into the wood where the nightingale usually sang. Half the court was
there. As they were going along at their best pace a cow began to bellow.

'Oh!' said a young courtier, 'there we have it. What wonderful power for such a little creature;
I have certainly heard it before.'

'No, those are the cows bellowing; we are a long way yet from the place.' Then the frogs began
to croak in the marsh.

'Is it possible?' said the gentleman-in-waiting. 'I should never have thought it was like that.
How common it looks! Seeing so many grand people must have frightened all its colours away.'

'Little nightingale!' called the kitchen-maid quite loud, 'our gracious emperor wishes you
to sing to him!'

'With the greatest of pleasure!' said the nightingale, warbling away in the most delightful
fashion.

'It is just like crystal bells,' said the gentleman-in-waiting. 'Look at its little throat,
how active it is. It is extraordinary that we have never heard it before! I am sure it will
be a great success at court!'

'Shall I sing again to the emperor?' said the nightingale, who thought he was present.

'My precious little nightingale,' said the gentleman-in-waiting, 'I have the honour to command
your attendance at a court festival to-night, where you will charm his gracious majesty the
emperor with your fascinating singing.'

'It sounds best among the trees,' said the nightingale, but it went with them willingly when
it heard that the emperor wished it.

The palace had been brightened up for the occasion. In the middle of the large reception-room
where the emperor sat a golden rod had been fixed, on which the nightingale was to perch. The
whole court was assembled, and the little kitchen-maid had been permitted to stand behind the
door, as she now had the actual title of cook. They were all dressed in their best; everybody's
eyes were turned towards the little grey bird at which the emperor was nodding. The nightingale
sang delightfully, and the tears came into the emperor's eyes, nay, they rolled down his cheeks;
and then the nightingale sang more beautifully than ever, its notes touched all hearts. The
emperor was charmed, and said the nightingale should have his gold slipper to wear round its
neck. But the nightingale declined with thanks; it had already been sufficiently rewarded.

'I have seen tears in the eyes of the emperor; that is my richest reward. The tears of an emperor
have a wonderful power! God knows I am sufficiently recompensed!' and then it again burst into
its sweet heavenly song.

'That is the most delightful coquetting I have ever seen!' said the ladies, and they took some
water into their mouths to try and make the same gurgling when any one spoke to them, thinking
so to equal the nightingale. Even the lackeys and the chambermaids announced that they were
satisfied, and that is saying a great deal; they are always the most difficult people to please.
Yes, indeed, the nightingale had made a sensation. It was to stay at court now, and to have
its own cage, as well as liberty to walk out twice a day, and once in the night. It always
had twelve footmen, with each one holding a ribbon which was tied round its leg. There was
not much pleasure in an outing of that sort.

The whole town talked about the marvellous bird, and if two people met, one said to the other
'Night,' and the other answered 'Gale,' and then they sighed, perfectly understanding each
other. Eleven cheesemongers' children were called after it, but they had not got a voice among
them. But it was no book; it was a little work of art in a box, an artificial nightingale,
exactly like the living one, but it was studded all over with diamonds, rubies and sapphires.

When the bird was wound up it could sing one of the songs the real one sang, and it wagged
its tail, which glittered with silver and gold.

'Now, they must sing together; what a duet that will be.'

Then they had to sing together, but they did not get on very well, for the real nightingale
sang in its own way, and the artificial one could only sing waltzes.

'There is no fault in that,' said the music-master; 'it is perfectly in time and correct in
every way!'

Then the artificial bird had to sing alone. It was just as great a success as the real one,
and then it was so much prettier to look at; it glittered like bracelets and breast-pins.

'That is the most delightful coquetting I have ever seen!' said the ladies, and they took some
water into their mouths to try and make the same gurgling, thinking so to equal the nightingale.

It sang the same tune three and thirty times over, and yet it was not tired; people would willingly
have heard it from the beginning again, but the emperor said that the real one must have a
turn now--but where was it?

The music-master praised the bird tremendously, and insisted that it was much better than the
real nightingale, not only as regarded the outside with all the diamonds, but the inside too.

'Because you see, my ladies and gentlemen, and the emperor before all, in the real nightingale
you never know what you will hear, but in the artificial one everything is decided beforehand!
So it is, and so it must remain, it can't be otherwise. You can account for things, you can
open it and show the human ingenuity in arranging the waltzes, how they go, and how one note
follows upon another!'

'Those are exactly my opinions,' they all said, and the music-master got leave to show the
bird to the public next Sunday. They were also to hear it sing, said the emperor. So they heard
it, and all became as enthusiastic over it as if they had drunk themselves merry on tea, because
that is a thoroughly Chinese habit. Its title had risen to be 'Chief Imperial Singer of the
Bed-Chamber,' in rank number one, on the left side; for the emperor reckoned that side the
important one, where the heart was seated. And even an emperor's heart is on the left side.
The music-master wrote five-and-twenty volumes about the artificial bird; the treatise was
very long and written in all the most difficult Chinese characters. Everybody said they had
read and understood it, for otherwise they would have been reckoned stupid, and then their
bodies would have been trampled upon.

Things went on in this way for a whole year. The emperor, the court, and all the other Chinamen
knew every little gurgle in the song of the artificial bird by heart; but they liked it all
the better for this, and they could all join in the song themselves. Even the street boys sang
'zizizi' and 'cluck, cluck, cluck,' and the emperor sang it too.

But one evening when the bird was singing its best, and the emperor was lying in bed listening
to it, something gave way inside the bird with a 'whizz.' Then a spring burst, 'whirr' went
all the wheels, and the music stopped. The emperor jumped out of bed and sent for his private
physicians, but what good could they do? Then they sent for the watchmaker, and after a good
deal of talk and examination he got the works to go again somehow; but he said it would have
to be saved as much as possible, because it was so worn out, and he could not renew the works
so as to be sure of the tune. This was a great blow! They only dared to let the artificial
bird sing once a year, and hardly that; but then the music-master made a little speech, using
all the most difficult words. He said it was just as good as ever, and his saying it made it so.

'P,' answered he, shaking his head.

The emperor lay pale and cold in his gorgeous bed, the courtiers thought he was dead, and they
all went off to pay their respects to their new emperor. But the emperor was not dead yet.
He lay stiff and pale in the gorgeous bed with its velvet hangings and heavy golden tassels.
There was an open window high above him, and the moon streamed in upon the emperor, and the
artificial bird beside him. In one hand he held the emperor's golden sword, and in the other
his imperial banner. Round about, from among the folds of the velvet hangings peered many curious
faces: some were hideous, others gentle and pleasant. They were all the emperor's good and
bad deeds, which now looked him in the face when Death was weighing him down.

'Do you remember that?' whispered one after the other; 'Do you remember this?' and they told
him so many things that the perspiration poured down his face.

'I never knew that,' said the emperor. 'Music, music, sound the great Chinese drums!' he cried,
'that I may not hear what they are saying.' But they went on and on, and Death sat nodding
his head, just like a Chinaman, at everything that was said.

'Music, music!' shrieked the emperor. 'You precious little golden bird, sing, sing! Death continued
to fix the great empty sockets of his eyes upon him, and all was silent, so terribly silent.

Suddenly, close to the window, there was a burst of lovely song; it was the living nightingale,
perched on a branch outside. It had heard of the emperor's need, and had come to bring comfort
and hope to him. As it sang the faces round became fainter and fainter, and the blood coursed
with fresh vigour in the emperor's veins and through his feeble limbs. It sang about the quiet
churchyard, when the roses bloom, where the elder flower scents the air, and where the fresh
grass is ever moistened anew by the tears of the mourner. This song brought to Death a longing
for his own garden, and, like a cold grey mist, he passed out of the window.

'Thanks, thanks!' said the emperor; 'you heavenly little bird, I know you! I banished you from
my kingdom, and yet you have charmed the evil visions away from my bed by your song, and even
Death away from my heart! The sun shone in at his window, when he woke refreshed and well;
none of his attendants had yet come back to him, for they thought he was dead, but the nightingale
still sat there singing. I can't build my nest and live in this palace, but let me come whenever
I like, then I will sit on the branch in the evening, and sing to you. I love your heart more
than your crown, and yet there is an odour of sanctity round the crown too!--I will come, and
I will sing to you!--But you must promise me one thing!--

'Everything!' said the emperor, who stood there in his imperial robes which he had just put
on, and he held the sword heavy with gold upon his heart.

'One thing I ask you! Tell no one that you have a little bird who tells you everything; it
will be better so!'

Then the nightingale flew away. The attendants came in to see after their dead emperor, and
there he stood, bidding them 'Good morning!'

THE REAL PRINCESS

There was once a prince, and he wanted a princess, but then she must be a real Princess. He
travelled right round the world to find one, but there was always something wrong. There were
plenty of princesses, but whether they were real princesses he had great difficulty in discovering;
there was always something which was not quite right about them. So at last he had to come
home again, and he was very sad because he wanted a real princess so badly.

One evening there was a terrible storm; it thundered and lightened and the rain poured down
in torrents; indeed it was a fearful night.

In the middle of the storm somebody knocked at the town gate, and the old King himself went
to open it.

It was a princess who stood outside, but she was in a terrible state from the rain and the
storm. The water streamed out of her hair and her clothes; it ran in at the top of her shoes
and out at the heel, but she said that she was a real princess.

'Well we shall soon see if that is true,' thought the old Queen, but she said nothing. She
went into the bedroom, took all the bedclothes off and laid a pea on the bedstead: then she
took twenty mattresses and piled them on the top of the pea, and then twenty feather beds on
the top of the mattresses. This was where the princess was to sleep that night. In the morning
they asked her how she had slept.

THE GARDEN OF PARADISE

There was once a king's son; nobody had so many or such beautiful books as he had. He could
read about everything which had ever happened in this world, and see it all represented in
the most beautiful pictures. He could get information about every nation and every country;
but as to where the Garden of Paradise was to be found, not a word could he discover, and this
was the very thing he thought most about. His grandmother had told him, when he was quite a
little fellow and was about to begin his school life, that every flower in the Garden of Paradise
was a delicious cake, and that the pistils were full of wine. In one flower history was written,
in another geography or tables; you had only to eat the cake and you knew the lesson.

'Oh, why did Eve take of the tree of knowledge? Why did Adam eat the forbidden fruit? If it
had only been I it would not have happened! never would sin have entered the world!'

This is what he said then, and he still said it when he was seventeen; his thoughts were full
of the Garden of Paradise.

He walked into the wood one day; he was alone, for that was his greatest pleasure. Evening
came on, the clouds drew up and it rained as if the whole heaven had become a sluice from which
the water poured in sheets; it was as dark as it is otherwise in the deepest well. Now he slipped
on the wet grass, and then he fell on the bare stones which jutted out of the rocky ground.
Everything was dripping, and at last the poor Prince hadn't got a dry thread on him. He had
to climb over huge rocks where the water oozed out of the thick moss. He was almost fainting;
just then he heard a curious murmuring and saw in front of him a big lighted cave. A fire was
burning in the middle, big enough to roast a stag, which was in fact being done; a splendid
stag with its huge antlers was stuck on a spit, being slowly turned round between the hewn
trunks of two fir trees. An oldish woman, tall and strong enough to be a man dressed up, sat
by the fire throwing on logs from time to time.

'Come in, by all means!' she said; 'sit down by the fire so that your clothes may dry!'

'There is a shocking draught here,' said the Prince, as he sat down on the ground.

'It will be worse than this when my sons come home!' said the woman. 'You are in the cavern
of the winds; my sons are the four winds of the world! Do you understand?'

'Who are your sons?' asked the Prince.

'Well that's not so easy to answer when the question is stupidly put,' said the woman. 'My
sons do as they like; they are playing rounders now with the clouds up there in the great hall,'
and she pointed up into the sky.

'Oh indeed!' said the Prince. 'You seem to speak very harshly, and you are not so gentle as
the women I generally see about me!'

'Oh, I daresay they have nothing else to do! I have to be harsh if I am to keep my boys under
control! But I can do it, although they are a stiff-necked lot! Do you see those four sacks
hanging on the wall? They are just as frightened of them as you used to be of the cane behind
the looking-glass. I can double the boys up, I can tell you, and then they have to go into
the bag; we don't stand upon ceremony, and there they have to stay; they can't get out to play
their tricks till it suits me to let them. But here we have one of them.' It was the Northwind
who came in with an icy blast; great hailstones peppered about the floor and snow-flakes drifted
in. He was dressed in bearskin trousers and jacket, and he had a sealskin cap drawn over his
ears. Long icicles were hanging from his beard, and one hailstone after another dropped down
from the collar of his jacket.

'Don't go straight to the fire,' said the Prince. 'You might easily get chilblains!'

'Chilblains!' said the Northwind with a loud laugh. 'Chilblains! they are my greatest delight!
What sort of a feeble creature are you? How did you get into the cave of the winds?'

'He is my guest,' said the old woman, 'and if you are not pleased with that explanation you
may go into the bag! Now you know my opinion!'

This had its effect, and the Northwind told them where he came from, and where he had been
for the last month.

'I come from the Arctic seas,' he said. 'I have been on Behring Island with the Russian walrus-hunters.
I sat at the helm and slept when they sailed from the north cape, and when I woke now and then
the stormy petrels were flying about my legs. They are queer birds; they give a brisk flap
with their wings and then keep them stretched out and motionless, and even then they have speed
enough.'

'Pray don't be too long-winded,' said the mother of the winds. 'So at last you got to Behring
Island!'

'It's perfectly splendid! There you have a floor to dance upon, as flat as a pancake, half-thawed
snow, with moss. There were bones of whales and Polar bears lying about; they looked like the
legs and arms of giants covered with green mould. One would think that the sun had never shone
on them. I gave a little puff to the fog so that one could see the shed. It was a house built
of wreckage and covered with the skins of whales; the flesh side was turned outwards; it was
all red and green; a living Polar bear sat on the roof growling. I went to the shore and looked
at the birds' nests, looked at the unfledged young ones screaming and gaping; then I blew down
thousands of their throats and they learnt to shut their mouths. Lower down the walruses were
rolling about like monster maggots with pigs' heads and teeth a yard long!'

'You're a good story-teller, my boy!' said his mother. 'It makes my mouth water to hear you!'

'Then there was a hunt! The harpoons were plunged into the walruses' breasts, and the steaming
blood spurted out of them like fountains over the ice. Then I remembered my part of the game!
I blew up and made my ships, the mountain-high icebergs, nip the boats; whew! how they whistled
and how they screamed, but I whistled louder. They were obliged to throw the dead walruses,
chests and ropes out upon the ice! I shook the snow-flakes over them and let them drift southwards
to taste the salt water. They will never come back to Behring Island!'

'Then you've been doing evil!' said the mother of the winds.

'What good I did, the others may tell you,' said he. 'But here we have my brother from the
west; I like him best of all; he smells of the sea and brings a splendid cool breeze with him!'

'Is that the little Zephyr?' asked the Prince.

'Yes, certainly it is Zephyr, but he is not so little as all that. He used to be a pretty boy
once, but that's gone by!'

He looked like a wild man of the woods, but he had a padded hat on so as not to come to any
harm. He carried a mahogany club cut in the American mahogany forests. It could not be anything
less than that.

'Where do you come from?' asked his mother.

'From the forest wildernesses!' he said, 'where the thorny creepers make a fence between every
tree, where the water-snake lies in the wet grass, and where human beings seem to be superfluous!'

'What did you do there?'

'I looked at the mighty river, saw where it dashed over the rocks in dust and flew with the
clouds to carry the rainbow. I saw the wild buffalo swimming in the river, but the stream carried
him away; he floated with the wild duck, which soared into the sky at the rapids; but the buffalo
was carried over with the water. I liked that and blew a storm, so that the primæval trees
had to sail too, and they were whirled about like shavings.'

'And you have done nothing else?' asked the old woman.

'I have been turning somersaults in the Savannahs, patting the wild horse, and shaking down
cocoanuts! Oh yes, I have plenty of stories to tell! But one need not tell everything. You
know that very well, old woman!' and then he kissed his mother so heartily that she nearly
fell backwards; he was indeed a wild boy.

The Southwind appeared now in a turban and a flowing bedouin's cloak.

'It is fearfully cold in here,' he said, throwing wood on the fire; 'it is easy to see that
the Northwind got here first!'

'It is hot enough here to roast a polar bear,' said the Northwind.

'You are a polar bear yourself!' said the Southwind.

'Do you want to go into the bag?' asked the old woman. 'Sit down on that stone and tell us
where you have been.'

'In Africa, mother!' he answered. 'I have been chasing the lion with the Hottentots in Kaffirland!
What grass there is on those plains! as green as an olive. The gnu was dancing about, and the
ostriches ran races with me, but I am still the fastest. I went to the desert with its yellow
sand. It looks like the bottom of the sea. I met a caravan! They were killing their last camel
to get water to drink, but it wasn't much they got. The sun was blazing above, and the sand
burning below. There were no limits to the outstretched desert. Then I burrowed into the fine
loose sand and whirled it up in great columns--that was a dance! You should have seen how despondently
the dromedaries stood, and the merchant drew his caftan over his head. He threw himself down
before me as if I had been Allah, his god. Now they are buried, and there is a pyramid of sand
over them all; when I blow it away, sometime the sun will bleach their bones, and then travellers
will see that people have been there before, otherwise you would hardly believe it in the desert!'

'Then you have only been doing harm!' said the mother. 'Into the bag you go!' And before he
knew where he was she had the Southwind by the waist and in the bag; it rolled about on the
ground, but she sat down upon it and then it had to be quiet.

'Your sons are lively fellows!' said the Prince.

'Yes, indeed,' she said; 'but I can master them! Here comes the fourth.'

It was the Eastwind, and he was dressed like a Chinaman.

'Oh, have you come from that quarter?' said the mother. 'I thought you had been in the Garden
of Paradise.'

'I am only going there to-morrow!' said the Eastwind. 'It will be a hundred years to-morrow
since I have been there. The officials were flogged in the streets, the bamboo canes were broken
over their shoulders, and they were all people ranging from the first to the ninth rank. They
shrieked "Many thanks, Father and benefactor," but they didn't mean what they said, and I went
on ringing the bells and singing "Tsing, tsang, tsu!"'

'You're quite uproarious about it!' said the old woman. 'It's a good thing you are going to
the Garden of Paradise to-morrow; it always has a good effect on your behaviour. Mind you drink
deep of the well of wisdom, and bring a little bottleful home to me.'

'That I will,' said the Eastwind, 'But why have you put my brother from the south into the
bag? Out with him. He must tell me about the phoenix; the Princess always wants to hear about
that bird when I call every hundred years. Open the bag! then you'll be my sweetest mother,
and I'll give you two pockets full of tea as green and fresh as when I picked it!'

'Well, for the sake of the tea, and because you are my darling, I will open my bag!'

She did open it and the Southwind crept out, but he was quite crestfallen because the strange
Prince had seen his disgrace.

'Here is a palm leaf for the Princess!' said the Southwind. 'The old phoenix, the only one
in the world, gave it to me. He has scratched his whole history on it with his bill, for the
hundred years of his life, and she can read it for herself. I saw how the phoenix set fire
to his nest himself and sat on it while it burnt, like the widow of a Hindoo. Oh, how the dry
branches crackled, how it smoked, and what a smell there was! At last it all burst into flame;
the old bird was burnt to ashes, but his egg lay glowing in the fire; it broke with a loud
bang and the young one flew out. Now it rules over all the birds, and it is the only phoenix
in the world. He bit a hole in the leaf I gave you; that is his greeting to the Princess.'

'Let us have something to eat now!' said the mother of the winds; and they all sat down to
eat the roast stag, and the Prince sat by the side of the Eastwind, so they soon became good
friends.

'I say,' said the Prince, 'just tell me who is this Princess, and where is the Garden of Paradise?'

'Oh ho!' said the Eastwind, 'if that is where you want to go you must fly with me to-morrow.
But I may as well tell you that no human being has been there since Adam and Eve's time. You
know all about them I suppose from your Bible stories?'

'Of course,' said the Prince.

'When they were driven away the Garden of Eden sank into the ground, but it kept its warm sunshine,
its mild air, and all its charms. The queen of the fairies lives there. The Island of Bliss,
where death never enters, and where living is a delight, is there. Get on my back to-morrow
and I will take you with me; I think I can manage it! But you mustn't talk now, I want to go
to sleep.'

When the Prince woke up in the early morning, he was not a little surprised to find that he
was already high above the clouds. He was sitting on the back of the Eastwind, who was holding
him carefully; they were so high up that woods and fields, rivers and lakes, looked like a
large coloured map.

'Good morning,' said the Eastwind. 'You may as well sleep a little longer, for there is not
much to be seen in this flat country below us, unless you want to count the churches. They
look like chalk dots on the green board.'

He called the fields and meadows 'the green board.'

'It was very rude of me to leave without saying good-bye to your mother and brothers,' said
the Prince.

'One is excused when one is asleep!' said the Eastwind, and they flew on faster than ever.
You could mark their flight by the rustling of the trees as they passed over the woods; and
whenever they crossed a lake, or the sea, the waves rose and the great ships dipped low down
in the water, like floating swans. Towards evening the large towns were amusing as it grew
dark, with all their lights twinkling now here, now there, just as when one burns a piece of
paper and sees all the little sparks like children coming home from school. The Prince clapped
his hands, but the Eastwind told him he had better leave off and hold tight, or he might fall
and find himself hanging on to a church steeple.

The eagle in the great forest flew swiftly, but the Eastwind flew more swiftly still. The Kossack
on his little horse sped fast over the plains, but the Prince sped faster still.

'Now you can see the Himalayas!' said the Eastwind. 'They are the highest mountains in Asia;
we shall soon reach the Garden of Paradise.'

They took a more southerly direction, and the air became scented with spices and flowers. Figs
and pomegranates grew wild, and the wild vines were covered with blue and green grapes. They
both descended here and stretched themselves on the soft grass, where the flowers nodded to
the wind, as much as to say, 'Welcome back.'

'Are we in the Garden of Paradise now?' asked the Prince.

'No, certainly not!' answered the Eastwind. 'But we shall soon be there. Do you see that wall
of rock and the great cavern where the wild vine hangs like a big curtain? We have to go through
there! Wrap yourself up in your cloak, the sun is burning here, but a step further on it is
icy cold. The bird which flies past the cavern has one wing out here in the heat of summer,
and the other is there in the cold of winter.'

'So that is the way to the Garden of Paradise!' said the Prince.

Now they entered the cavern. Oh, how icily cold it was; but it did not last long. The Eastwind
spread his wings, and they shone like the brightest flame; but what a cave it was! Large blocks
of stone, from which the water dripped, hung over them in the most extraordinary shapes; at
one moment it was so low and narrow that they had to crawl on hands and knees, the next it
was as wide and lofty as if they were in the open air. It looked like a chapel of the dead,
with mute organ pipes and petrified banners.

'We seem to be journeying along Death's road to the Garden of Paradise!' said the Prince, but
the Eastwind never answered a word, he only pointed before them where a beautiful blue light
was shining. The blocks of stone above them grew dimmer and dimmer, and at last they became
as transparent as a white cloud in the moonshine. The air was also deliciously soft, as fresh
as on the mountain-tops and as scented as down among the roses in the valley.

A river ran there as clear as the air itself, and the fish in it were like gold and silver.
Purple eels, which gave out blue sparks with every curve, gambolled about in the water; and
the broad leaves of the water-lilies were tinged with the hues of the rainbow, while the flower
itself was like a fiery orange flame, nourished by the water, just as oil keeps a lamp constantly
burning. A firm bridge of marble, as delicately and skilfully carved as if it were lace and
glass beads, led over the water to the Island of Bliss, where the Garden of Paradise bloomed.

The Eastwind took the Prince in his arms and bore him over. The flowers and leaves there sang
all the beautiful old songs of his childhood, but sang them more wonderfully than any human
voice could sing them.

Were these palm trees or giant water plants growing here? The Prince had never seen such rich
and mighty trees. The most wonderful climbing plants hung in wreaths, such as are only to be
found pictured in gold and colours on the margins of old books of the Saints or entwined among
their initial letters. It was the most extraordinary combination of birds, flowers and scrolls.

Close by on the grass stood a flock of peacocks with their brilliant tails outspread. Yes,
indeed, it seemed so, but when the Prince touched them he saw that they were not birds but
plants. They were big dock leaves, which shone like peacocks' tails. Lions and tigers sprang
like agile cats among the green hedges, which were scented with the blossom of the olive, and
the lion and the tiger were tame. The wild dove, glistening like a pearl, beat the lion's mane
with his wings; and the antelope, otherwise so shy, stood by nodding, just as if he wanted
to join the game.

The Fairy of the Garden now advanced to meet them; her garments shone like the sun, and her
face beamed like that of a happy mother rejoicing over her child. She was young and very beautiful,
and was surrounded by a band of lovely girls, each with a gleaming star in her hair.

When the Eastwind gave her the inscribed leaf from the Phoenix her eyes sparkled with delight.
She took the Prince's hand and led him into her palace, where the walls were the colour of
the brightest tulips in the sunlight. The ceiling was one great shining flower, and the longer
one gazed into it the deeper the calyx seemed to be. The Prince went to the window, and looking
through one of the panes saw the Tree of Knowledge, with the Serpent, and Adam and Eve standing by.

'Are they not driven out?' he asked, and the Fairy smiled, and explained that Time had burned
a picture into each pane, but not of the kind one usually sees; they were alive, the leaves
on the trees moved, and people came and went like the reflections in a mirror.

Then he looked through another pane, and he saw Jacob's dream, with the ladder going straight
up into heaven, and angels with great wings were fluttering up and down. All that had ever
happened in this world lived and moved on these window panes; only Time could imprint such
wonderful pictures.

The Fairy smiled and led him into a large, lofty room, the walls of which were like transparent
paintings of faces, one more beautiful than the other. These were millions of the Blessed who
smiled and sang, and all their songs melted into one perfect melody. The highest ones were
so tiny that they seemed smaller than the very smallest rosebud, no bigger than a pinpoint
in a drawing. In the middle of the room stood a large tree, with handsome drooping branches;
golden apples, large and small, hung like oranges among its green leaves. It was the Tree of
Knowledge, of whose fruit Adam and Eve had eaten. From every leaf hung a shining red drop of
dew; it was as if the tree wept tears of blood.

'Now let us get into the boat,' said the Fairy. 'We shall find refreshment on the swelling
waters. The boat rocks, but it does not move from the spot; all the countries of the world
will pass before our eyes.'

It was a curious sight to see the whole coast move. Here came lofty snow-clad Alps, with their
clouds and dark fir trees. The horn echoed sadly among them, and the shepherd yodelled sweetly
in the valleys. Then banian trees bent their long drooping branches over the boat, black swans
floated on the water, and the strangest animals and flowers appeared on the shore. This was
New Holland, the fifth portion of the world, which glided past them with a view of its blue
mountains. They heard the song of priests, and saw the dances of the savages to the sound of
drums and pipes of bone. The pyramids of Egypt reaching to the clouds, with fallen columns,
and Sphynxes half buried in sand, next sailed past them. Then came the Aurora Borealis blazing
over the peaks of the north; they were fireworks which could not be imitated. The Prince was
so happy, and he saw a hundred times more than we have described.

'Can I stay here always?' he asked.

'That depends upon yourself,' answered the Fairy. 'If you do not, like Adam, allow yourself
to be tempted to do what is forbidden, you can stay here always.'

'I will not touch the apples on the Tree of Knowledge,' said the Prince. 'There are thousands
of other fruits here as beautiful.'

'Test yourself, and if you are not strong enough, go back with the Eastwind who brought you.
He is going away now, and will not come back for a hundred years; the time will fly in this
place like a hundred hours, but that is a long time for temptation and sin. Every evening when
I leave you I must say, "Come with me," and I must beckon to you, but stay behind. Do not come
with me, for with every step you take your longing will grow stronger. You will reach the hall
where grows the Tree of Knowledge; I sleep beneath its fragrant drooping branches. You will
bend over me and I must smile, but if you press a kiss upon my lips Paradise will sink deep
down into the earth, and it will be lost to you. The sharp winds of the wilderness will whistle
round you, the cold rain will drop from your hair. Sorrow and labour will be your lot.'

'I will remain here!' said the Prince.

And the Eastwind kissed him on the mouth and said: 'Be strong, then we shall meet again in
a hundred years. Farewell! Farewell!' And the Eastwind spread his great wings; they shone like
poppies at the harvest time, or the Northern Lights in a cold winter.

'Good-bye! good-bye!' whispered the flowers. Storks and pelicans flew in a line like waving
ribbons, conducting him to the boundaries of the Garden.

'Now we begin our dancing!' said the Fairy; 'at the end when I dance with you, as the sun goes
down you will see me beckon to you and cry, "Come with me", but do not come. I have to repeat
it every night for a hundred years. Every time you resist, you will grow stronger, and at last
you will not even think of following. To-night is the first time. Remember my warning!'

And the Fairy led him into a large hall of white transparent lilies, the yellow stamens in
each formed a little golden harp which echoed the sound of strings and flutes. Lovely girls,
slender and lissom, dressed in floating gauze, which revealed their exquisite limbs, glided
in the dance, and sang of the joy of living--that they would never die--and that the Garden
of Paradise would bloom for ever.

The sun went down and the sky was bathed in golden light which gave the lilies the effect of
roses; and the Prince drank of the foaming wine handed to him by the maidens. He felt such
joy as he had never known before; he saw the background of the hall opening where the Tree
of Knowledge stood in a radiancy which blinded him. The song proceeding from it was soft and
lovely, like his mother's voice, and she seemed to say, 'My child, my beloved child!'

Then the Fairy beckoned to him and said so tenderly, 'Come with me,' that he rushed towards
her, forgetting his promise, forgetting everything on the very first evening that she smiled
and beckoned to him.

The fragrance in the scented air around grew stronger, the harps sounded sweeter than ever,
and it seemed as if the millions of smiling heads in the hall where the Tree grew nodded and
sang, 'One must know everything. Man is lord of the earth.' They were no longer tears of blood
which fell from the Tree; it seemed to him that they were red shining stars.

'Come with me, come with me,' spoke those trembling tones, and at every step the Prince's cheeks
burnt hotter and hotter and his blood coursed more rapidly.

'I must go,' he said, 'it is no sin; I must see her asleep; nothing will be lost if I do not
kiss her, and that I will not do.

'I have not sinned yet!' said the Prince, 'nor will I'; then he drew back the branches. There
she lay asleep already, beautiful as only the Fairy in the Garden of Paradise can be. She smiled
in her dreams; he bent over her and saw the tears welling up under her eyelashes.

'Do you weep for me?' he whispered. 'Weep not, beautiful maiden. I only now understand the
full bliss of Paradise; it surges through my blood and through my thoughts. I feel the strength
of the angels and of everlasting life in my mortal limbs! If it were to be everlasting night
to me, a moment like this were worth it!' and he kissed away the tears from her eyes; his mouth
touched hers.

Then came a sound like thunder, louder and more awful than any he had ever heard before, and
everything around collapsed. The beautiful Fairy, the flowery Paradise sank deeper and deeper.
The Prince saw it sink into the darkness of night; it shone far off like a little tiny twinkling
star. The chill of death crept over his limbs; he closed his eyes and lay long as if dead.

The cold rain fell on his face, and the sharp wind blew around his head, and at last his memory
came back. 'What have I done?' he sighed. 'I have sinned like Adam, sinned so heavily that
Paradise has sunk low beneath the earth!' And he opened his eyes; he could still see the star,
the far-away star, which twinkled like Paradise; it was the morning star in the sky.

'So soon as the first evening!' she said. 'I thought as much; if you were my boy, you should
go into the bag!'

'Ah, he shall soon go there!' said Death. He was a strong old man, with a scythe in his hand
and great black wings. 'He shall be laid in a coffin, but not now; I only mark him and then
leave him for a time to wander about on the earth to expiate his sin and to grow better. I
will come some time. When he least expects me, I shall come back, lay him in a black coffin,
put it on my head, and fly to the skies. The Garden of Paradise blooms there too, and if he
is good and holy he shall enter into it; but if his thoughts are wicked and his heart still
full of sin, he will sink deeper in his coffin than Paradise sank, and I shall only go once
in every thousand years to see if he is to sink deeper or to rise to the stars, the twinkling
stars up there.'

THE MERMAID

Far out at sea the water is as blue as the bluest cornflower, and as clear as the clearest
crystal; but it is very deep, too deep for any cable to fathom, and if many steeples were piled
on the top of one another they would not reach from the bed of the sea to the surface of the
water. It is down there that the Mermen live.

Now don't imagine that there are only bare white sands at the bottom; oh no! the most wonderful
trees and plants grow there, with such flexible stalks and leaves, that at the slightest motion
of the water they move just as if they were alive. All the fish, big and little, glide among
the branches just as, up here, birds glide through the air. The palace of the Merman King lies
in the very deepest part; its walls are of coral and the long pointed windows of the clearest
amber, but the roof is made of mussel shells which open and shut with the lapping of the water.
This has a lovely effect, for there are gleaming pearls in every shell, any one of which would
be the pride of a queen's crown.

The Merman King had been for many years a widower, but his old mother kept house for him; she
was a clever woman, but so proud of her noble birth that she wore twelve oysters on her tail,
while the other grandees were only allowed six. Otherwise she was worthy of all praise, especially
because she was so fond of the little mermaid princesses, her grandchildren. They were six
beautiful children, but the youngest was the prettiest of all; her skin was as soft and delicate
as a roseleaf, her eyes as blue as the deepest sea, but like all the others she had no feet,
and instead of legs she had a fish's tail.

All the livelong day they used to play in the palace in the great halls, where living flowers
grew out of the walls. When the great amber windows were thrown open the fish swam in, just
as the swallows fly into our rooms when we open the windows, but the fish swam right up to
the little princesses, ate out of their hands, and allowed themselves to be patted.

Outside the palace was a large garden, with fiery red and deep blue trees, the fruit of which
shone like gold, while the flowers glowed like fire on their ceaselessly waving stalks. The
ground was of the finest sand, but it was of a blue phosphorescent tint. Everything was bathed
in a wondrous blue light down there; you might more readily have supposed yourself to be high
up in the air, with only the sky above and below you, than that you were at the bottom of the
ocean. In a dead calm you could just catch a glimpse of the sun like a purple flower with a
stream of light radiating from its calyx.

Each little princess had her own little plot of garden, where she could dig and plant just
as she liked. One made her flower-bed in the shape of a whale; another thought it nice to have
hers like a little mermaid; but the youngest made hers quite round like the sun, and she would
only have flowers of a rosy hue like its beams. She was a curious child, quiet and thoughtful,
and while the other sisters decked out their gardens with all kinds of extraordinary objects
which they got from wrecks, she would have nothing besides the rosy flowers like the sun up
above, except a statue of a beautiful boy. It was hewn out of the purest white marble and had
gone to the bottom from some wreck. By the statue she planted a rosy red weeping willow which
grew splendidly, and the fresh delicate branches hung round and over it, till they almost touched
the blue sand where the shadows showed violet, and were ever moving like the branches. It looked
as if the leaves and the roots were playfully interchanging kisses.

Nothing gave her greater pleasure than to hear about the world of human beings up above; she
made her old grandmother tell her all that she knew about ships and towns, people and animals.
But above all it seemed strangely beautiful to her that up on the earth the flowers were scented,
for they were not so at the bottom of the sea; also that the woods were green, and that the
fish which were to be seen among the branches could sing so loudly and sweetly that it was
a delight to listen to them. You see the grandmother called little birds fish, or the mermaids
would not have understood her, as they had never seen a bird.

'When you are fifteen,' said the grandmother, 'you will be allowed to rise up from the sea
and sit on the rocks in the moonlight, and look at the big ships sailing by, and you will also
see woods and towns.'

One of the sisters would be fifteen in the following year, but the others,--well, they were
each one year younger than the other, so that the youngest had five whole years to wait before
she would be allowed to come up from the bottom, to see what things were like on earth. But
each one promised the others to give a full account of all that she had seen, and found most
wonderful on the first day. Their grandmother could never tell them enough, for there were
so many things about which they wanted information.

None of them was so full of longings as the youngest, the very one who had the longest time
to wait, and who was so quiet and dreamy. Many a night she stood by the open windows and looked
up through the dark blue water which the fish were lashing with their tails and fins. She could
see the moon and the stars, it is true; their light was pale, but they looked much bigger through
the water than they do to our eyes. When she saw a dark shadow glide between her and them,
she knew that it was either a whale swimming above her, or else a ship laden with human beings.
I am certain they never dreamt that a lovely little mermaid was standing down below, stretching
up her white hands towards the keel.

The eldest princess had now reached her fifteenth birthday, and was to venture above the water.
When she came back she had hundreds of things to tell them, but the most delightful of all,
she said, was to lie in the moonlight, on a sandbank in a calm sea, and to gaze at the large
town close to the shore, where the lights twinkled like hundreds of stars; to listen to music
and the noise and bustle of carriages and people, to see the many church towers and spires,
and to hear the bells ringing; and just because she could not go on shore she longed for that
most of all.

Oh, how eagerly the youngest sister listened! and when, later in the evening she stood at the
open window and looked up through the dark blue water, she thought of the big town with all
its noise and bustle, and fancied that she could even hear the church bells ringing.

The year after, the second sister was allowed to mount up through the water and swim about
wherever she liked. The sun was just going down when she reached the surface, the most beautiful
sight, she thought, that she had ever seen. The whole sky had looked like gold, she said, and
as for the clouds! well, their beauty was beyond description; they floated in red and violet
splendour over her head, and, far faster than they went, a flock of wild swans flew like a
long white veil over the water towards the setting sun; she swam towards it, but it sank and
all the rosy light on clouds and water faded away.

The year after that the third sister went up, and, being much the most venturesome of them
all, swam up a broad river which ran into the sea. She saw beautiful green, vine-clad hills;
palaces and country seats peeping through splendid woods. She heard the birds singing, and
the sun was so hot that she was often obliged to dive, to cool her burning face. In a tiny
bay she found a troop of little children running about naked and paddling in the water; she
wanted to play with them, but they were frightened and ran away. Then a little black animal
came up; it was a dog, but she had never seen one before; it barked so furiously at her that
she was frightened and made for the open sea. She could never forget the beautiful woods, the
green hills and the lovely children who could swim in the water although they had no fishes' tails.

The fourth sister was not so brave; she stayed in the remotest part of the ocean, and, according
to her account, that was the most beautiful spot. You could see for miles and miles around
you, and the sky above was like a great glass dome. She had seen ships, but only far away,
so that they looked like sea-gulls. There were grotesque dolphins turning somersaults, and
gigantic whales squirting water through their nostrils like hundreds of fountains on every side.

Now the fifth sister's turn came. Her birthday fell in the winter, so that she saw sights that
the others had not seen on their first trips. The sea looked quite green, and large icebergs
were floating about, each one of which looked like a pearl, she said, but was much bigger than
the church towers built by men. They took the most wonderful shapes, and sparkled like diamonds.
She had seated herself on one of the largest, and all the passing ships sheered off in alarm
when they saw her sitting there with her long hair streaming loose in the wind.

In the evening the sky became overcast with dark clouds; it thundered and lightened, and the
huge icebergs glittering in the bright lightning, were lifted high into the air by the black
waves. All the ships shortened sail, and there was fear and trembling on every side, but she
sat quietly on her floating iceberg watching the blue lightning flash in zigzags down on to
the shining sea.

The first time any of the sisters rose above the water she was delighted by the novelties and
beauties she saw; but once grown up, and at liberty to go where she liked, she became indifferent
and longed for her home; in the course of a month or so they all said that after all their
own home in the deep was best, it was so cosy there.

Many an evening the five sisters interlacing their arms would rise above the water together.
They had lovely voices, much clearer than any mortal, and when a storm was rising, and they
expected ships to be wrecked, they would sing in the most seductive strains of the wonders
of the deep, bidding the seafarers have no fear of them. But the sailors could not understand
the words, they thought it was the voice of the storm; nor could it be theirs to see this Elysium
of the deep, for when the ship sank they were drowned, and only reached the Merman's palace
in death. When the elder sisters rose up in this manner, arm-in-arm, in the evening, the youngest
remained behind quite alone, looking after them as if she must weep; but mermaids have no tears,
and so they suffer all the more.

'Oh! if I were only fifteen!' she said, 'I know how fond I shall be of the world above, and
of the mortals who dwell there.'

At last her fifteenth birthday came.

'Now we shall have you off our hands,' said her grandmother, the old queen-dowager. 'Come now,
let me adorn you like your other sisters!' and she put a wreath of white lilies round her hair,
but every petal of the flowers was half a pearl; then the old queen had eight oysters fixed
on to the princess's tail to show her high rank.

'But it hurts so!' said the little mermaid.

'You must endure the pain for the sake of the finery!' said her grandmother.

But oh! how gladly would she have shaken off all this splendour, and laid aside the heavy wreath.
Her red flowers in her garden suited her much better, but she did not dare to make any alteration.
'Good-bye,' she said, and mounted as lightly and airily as a bubble through the water.

The sun had just set when her head rose above the water, but the clouds were still lighted
up with a rosy and golden splendour, and the evening star sparkled in the soft pink sky, the
air was mild and fresh, and the sea as calm as a millpond. A big three-masted ship lay close
by with only a single sail set, for there was not a breath of wind, and the sailors were sitting
about the rigging, on the cross-trees, and at the mast-heads. There was music and singing on
board, and as the evening closed in hundreds of gaily coloured lanterns were lighted--they
looked like the flags of all nations waving in the air. The little mermaid swam right up to
the cabin windows, and every time she was lifted by the swell she could see through the transparent
panes crowds of gaily dressed people. The handsomest of them all was the young prince with
large dark eyes; he could not be much more than sixteen, and all these festivities were in
honour of his birthday. The sailors danced on deck, and when the prince appeared among them
hundreds of rockets were let off making it as light as day, and frightening the little mermaid
so much that she had to dive under the water. She soon ventured up again, and it was just as
if all the stars of heaven were falling in showers round about her. She had never seen such
magic fires. Great suns whirled round, gorgeous fire-fish hung in the blue air, and all was
reflected in the calm and glassy sea. It was so light on board the ship that every little rope
could be seen, and the people still better. Oh, how handsome the prince was! how he laughed
and smiled as he greeted his guests, while the music rang out in the quiet night.

It got quite late, but the little mermaid could not take her eyes off the ship and the beautiful
prince. The coloured lanterns were put out, no more rockets were sent up, and the cannon had
ceased its thunder, but deep down in the sea there was a dull murmuring and moaning sound.
Meanwhile she was rocked up and down on the waves, so that she could look into the cabin; but
the ship got more and more way on, sail after sail was filled by the wind, the waves grew stronger,
great clouds gathered, and it lightened in the distance. Oh, there was going to be a fearful
storm! and soon the sailors had to shorten sail. The great ship rocked and rolled as she dashed
over the angry sea, the black waves rose like mountains, high enough to overwhelm her, but
she dived like a swan through them and rose again and again on their towering crests. The little
mermaid thought it a most amusing race, but not so the sailors. The ship creaked and groaned;
the mighty timbers bulged and bent under the heavy blows; the water broke over the decks, snapping
the main mast like a reed; she heeled over on her side, and the water rushed into the hold.

Now the little mermaid saw that they were in danger, and she had for her own sake to beware
of the floating beams and wreckage. One moment it was so pitch dark that she could not see
at all, but when the lightning flashed it became so light that she could see all on board.
Every man was looking out for his own safety as best he could; but she more particularly followed
the young prince with her eyes, and when the ship went down she saw him sink in the deep sea.
At first she was quite delighted, for now he was coming to be with her, but then she remembered
that human beings could not live under water, and that only if he were dead could he go to
her father's palace. No! he must not die; so she swam towards him all among the drifting beams
and planks, quite forgetting that they might crush her. She dived deep down under the water,
and came up again through the waves, and at last reached the young prince just as he was becoming
unable to swim any further in the stormy sea. His limbs were numbed, his beautiful eyes were
closing, and he must have died if the little mermaid had not come to the rescue. She held his
head above the water and let the waves drive them whithersoever they would.

By daybreak all the storm was over, of the ship not a trace was to be seen; the sun rose from
the water in radiant brilliance, and his rosy beams seemed to cast a glow of life into the
prince's cheeks, but his eyes remained closed. The mermaid kissed his fair and lofty brow,
and stroked back the dripping hair; it seemed to her that he was like the marble statue in
her little garden; she kissed him again and longed that he might live.

At last she saw dry land before her, high blue mountains on whose summits the white snow glistened
as if a flock of swans had settled there; down by the shore were beautiful green woods, and
in the foreground a church or temple, she did not quite know which, but it was a building of
some sort. Lemon and orange trees grew in the garden, and lofty palms stood by the gate. At
this point the sea formed a little bay where the water was quite calm, but very deep, right
up to the cliffs; at their foot was a strip of fine white sand to which she swam with the beautiful
prince, and laid him down on it, taking great care that his head should rest high up in the
warm sunshine.

The bells now began to ring in the great white building, and a number of young maidens came
into the garden. Then the little mermaid swam further off behind some high rocks and covered
her hair and breast with foam, so that no one should see her little face, and then she watched
to see who would discover the poor prince.

It was not long before one of the maidens came up to him. At first she seemed quite frightened,
but only for a moment, and then she fetched several others, and the mermaid saw that the prince
was coming to life, and that he smiled at all those around him, but he never smiled at her.
You see he did not know that she had saved him. She felt so sad that when he was led away into
the great building she dived sorrowfully into the water and made her way home to her father's
palace.

Always silent and thoughtful, she became more so now than ever. Her sisters often asked her
what she had seen on her first visit to the surface, but she never would tell them anything.

Many an evening and many a morning she would rise to the place where she had left the prince.
She saw the fruit in the garden ripen, and then gathered, she saw the snow melt on the mountain-tops,
but she never saw the prince, so she always went home still sadder than before. At home her
only consolation was to sit in her little garden with her arms twined round the handsome marble
statue which reminded her of the prince. It was all in gloomy shade now, as she had ceased
to tend her flowers, and the garden had become a neglected wilderness of long stalks and leaves
entangled with the branches of the tree.

At last she could not bear it any longer, so she told one of her sisters, and from her it soon
spread to the others, but to no one else except to one or two other mermaids who only told
their dearest friends. One of these knew all about the prince; she had also seen the festivities
on the ship; she knew where he came from and where his kingdom was situated.

'Come, little sister!' said the other princesses, and, throwing their arms round each other's
shoulders, they rose from the water in a long line, just in front of the prince's palace.

It was built of light yellow glistening stone, with great marble staircases, one of which led
into the garden. Magnificent gilded cupolas rose above the roof, and the spaces between the
columns which encircled the building were filled with life-like marble statues. Through the
clear glass of the lofty windows you could see gorgeous halls adorned with costly silken hangings,
and the pictures on the walls were a sight worth seeing. In the midst of the central hall a
large fountain played, throwing its jets of spray upwards to a glass dome in the roof, through
which the sunbeams lighted up the water and the beautiful plants which grew in the great basin.

She knew now where he lived, and often used to go there in the evenings and by night over the
water. She swam much nearer the land than any of the others dared; she even ventured right
up the narrow channel under the splendid marble terrace which threw a long shadow over the
water. She used to sit here looking at the young prince, who thought he was quite alone in
the clear moonlight.

She saw him many an evening sailing about in his beautiful boat, with flags waving and music
playing; she used to peep through the green rushes, and if the wind happened to catch her long
silvery veil and any one saw it, they only thought it was a swan flapping its wings.

Many a night she heard the fishermen, who were fishing by torchlight, talking over the good
deeds of the young prince; and she was happy to think that she had saved his life when he was
drifting about on the waves, half dead, and she could not forget how closely his head had pressed
her breast, and how passionately she had kissed him; but he knew nothing of all this, and never
saw her even in his dreams.

She became fonder and fonder of mankind, and longed more and more to be able to live among
them; their world seemed so infinitely bigger than hers; with their ships they could scour
the ocean, they could ascend the mountains high above the clouds, and their wooded, grass-grown
lands extended further than her eye could reach. There was so much that she wanted to know,
but her sisters could not give an answer to all her questions, so she asked her old grandmother,
who knew the upper world well, and rightly called it the country above the sea.

'If men are not drowned,' asked the little mermaid, 'do they live for ever? Do they not die
as we do down here in the sea?'

'Yes,' said the old lady, 'they have to die too, and their lifetime is even shorter than ours.
We may live here for three hundred years, but when we cease to exist we become mere foam on
the water and do not have so much as a grave among our dear ones. We have no immortal souls;
we have no future life; we are just like the green sea-weed, which, once cut down, can never
revive again! Men, on the other hand, have a soul which lives for ever, lives after the body
has become dust; it rises through the clear air, up to the shining stars! Just as we rise from
the water to see the land of mortals, so they rise up to unknown beautiful regions which we
shall never see.'

'Why have we no immortal souls?' asked the little mermaid sadly. 'I would give all my three
hundred years to be a human being for one day, and afterwards to have a share in the heavenly
kingdom.'

'You must not be thinking about that,' said the grandmother; 'we are much better off and happier
than human beings.'

'Then I shall have to die and to float as foam on the water, and never hear the music of the
waves or see the beautiful flowers or the red sun! Is there nothing I can do to gain an immortal
soul?'

'No,' said the grandmother; 'only if a human being so loved you that you were more to him than
father or mother, if all his thoughts and all his love were so centred in you that he would
let the priest join your hands and would vow to be faithful to you here, and to all eternity;
then your body would become infused with his soul. Thus, and only thus, could you gain a share
in the felicity of mankind. He would give you a soul while yet keeping his own. But that can
never happen! That which is your greatest beauty in the sea, your fish's tail, is thought hideous
up on earth, so little do they understand about it; to be pretty there you must have two clumsy
supports which they call legs!'

Then the little mermaid sighed and looked sadly at her fish's tail.

'Let us be happy,' said the grandmother; 'we will hop and skip during our three hundred years
of life; it is surely a long enough time; and after it is over we shall rest all the better
in our graves. There is to be a court ball to-night.'

This was a much more splendid affair than we ever see on earth. The walls and the ceiling of
the great ballroom were of thick but transparent glass. Several hundreds of colossal mussel
shells, rose red and grass green, were ranged in order round the sides holding blue lights,
which illuminated the whole room and shone through the walls, so that the sea outside was quite
lit up. You could see countless fish, great and small, swimming towards the glass walls, some
with shining scales of crimson hue, while others were golden and silvery. In the middle of
the room was a broad stream of running water, and on this the mermaids and mermen danced to
their own beautiful singing. No earthly beings have such lovely voices. The little mermaid
sang more sweetly than any of them, and they all applauded her. For a moment she felt glad
at heart, for she knew that she had the finest voice either in the sea or on land. But she
soon began to think again about the upper world, she could not forget the handsome prince and
her sorrow in not possessing, like him, an immortal soul. Therefore she stole out of her father's
palace, and while all within was joy and merriment, she sat sadly in her little garden. Suddenly
she heard the sound of a horn through the water, and she thought, 'Now he is out sailing up
there; he whom I love more than father or mother, he to whom my thoughts cling and to whose
hands I am ready to commit the happiness of my life. She had never been that way before; no
flowers grew there, no seaweed, only the bare grey sands, stretched towards the whirlpools,
which like rushing mill-wheels swirled round, dragging everything that came within reach down
to the depths. She had to pass between these boiling eddies to reach the witch's domain, and
for a long way the only path led over warm bubbling mud, which the witch called her 'peat bog.'
Her house stood behind this in the midst of a weird forest. All the trees and bushes were polyps,
half animal and half plant; they looked like hundred-headed snakes growing out of the sand,
the branches were long slimy arms, with tentacles like wriggling worms, every joint of which,
from the root to the outermost tip, was in constant motion. They wound themselves tightly round
whatever they could lay hold of and never let it escape. The little mermaid standing outside
was quite frightened, her heart beat fast with terror and she nearly turned back, but then
she remembered the prince and the immortal soul of mankind and took courage. She bound her
long flowing hair tightly round her head, so that the polyps should not seize her by it, folded
her hands over her breast, and darted like a fish through the water, in between the hideous
polyps, which stretched out their sensitive arms and tentacles towards her. She could see that
every one of them had something or other, which they had grasped with their hundred arms, and
which they held as if in iron bands. The bleached bones of men who had perished at sea and
sunk below peeped forth from the arms of some, while others clutched rudders and sea-chests,
or the skeleton of some land animal; and most horrible of all, a little mermaid whom they had
caught and suffocated. Then she came to a large opening in the wood where the ground was all
slimy, and where some huge fat water snakes were gambolling about. In the middle of this opening
was a house built of the bones of the wrecked; there sat the witch, letting a toad eat out
of her mouth, just as mortals let a little canary eat sugar. Tanner's Narrative, New York, 1830, p.
114.]

STRAW OR INDIAN CARDS.

The third game mentioned by Father Brebeuf was that which was called straw. We have seen that
the first of these games called for strength, agility and endurance. It was as free from elements
of chance as any human contest can be.

The victory belonged to the side which counted amongst its numbers those players who were the
fleetest runners, the most skilful throwers and the most adroit dodgers. The second was purely
a game of chance. If honestly played no other element entered into its composition. The third
which we are now about to consider was much more complicated in its rules than either of the
others. It closely resembled in some respects several of our modern gambling games. The French
found it very difficult to comprehend and hence the accounts of it which they have given are
often confused and perplexing. Boucher [Footnote: p. 57.] says, "Our French people have not
yet been able to learn to play it well; it is full of spirit and
these straws are to the Indians what cards are to us."

Lafitau [Footnote: Vol. II, p. 351.] after quoting from Boucher says, "Baron de LaHontan also
made out of it a game purely of the mind and of calculation, in which
he who best knows how to add and subtract, to multiply and divide
with these straws will surely win.

To do this, use and practice are necessary, for these savages are nothing less than good calculators."

"Sieur
Perrot, who was a celebrated traveller, and that European whom the savages of New France have
most honored, left a description of this game in his manuscript Memorial. I would gladly have
inserted it here but it is so obscure that it is nearly unintelligible." Charlevoix admits
that he could understand nothing of the game, except as played by two persons in its simplest
form and adds that he was told that "there was as much of art as of chance in the game and
that the Indians are great cheats at it."

[Footnote: Charlevoix, Vol.

III, p. 319, Father Tailban who edited Perrot says he has not been any more successful than
his predecessors and the game of straws remains to him an unsolved enigma. Perrot, Notes to
Ch. X, p. 188.] Where Lafitau and Charlevoix, aided by opportunities to investigate the game itself,
have failed, it would seem to be useless for us to attempt. Perrot has indeed succeeded in making
his account hopelessly involved. There is however much information to be derived from it and
the obscure points are after all unimportant unless one should actually wish to reproduce the
game in practice. In that event there are many points connected with the counts which would prove
troublesome.

To play the game, a number of straws or reeds uniform in size and of equal length were required.
They were generally from six to ten inches long.

The number used in the game was arbitrary. Lawson puts it at fifty-one. Charlevoix at two hundred
and one. The only essential points were that the numbers should be odd and that there should
be enough of them so that when the pile was divided into two parts, a glance would not reveal
which of the two divisions contained the odd number of straws. In its simplest form, the game
consisted, in separating the heap of straws into two parts, one of
which each player took, and he whose pile contained the odd number
of straws was the winner.

Before the division was made the straws were subjected to a manipulation, somewhat after the
manner of shuffling cards. They were then placed upon the deer-skin or upon whatever other
article was selected as a surface on which to play. The player who was to make the division
into two heaps, with many contortions of the body and throwing about of the arms, and with
constant utterances to propitiate his good luck, would make a division
of the straws with a pointed bone or some similar instrument, himself
taking one of the divisions while his adversary took the other.

They would then rapidly separate the straws into parcels numbering ten each and determine from
the fractional remainders, who had the odd number. The speed with which this process of counting
was carried on was always a source of wonder to the lookers-on, and the fact that the counting
was done by tens is almost invariably mentioned. Between two people betting simply on the
odd number no further rules were necessary. To determine which had the heap containing the
odd number, there was no need to foot up the total number of tens. It was to be settled by what
was left over after the last pile of complete tens was set aside. The number itself might be
either one, three, five, seven or nine. In the more complicated form of the game, this led
to giving different values to these numbers, the nine being always supreme and the one on which
the highest bets were wagered. It was generally understood that the holder of this number swept
the board taking all bets on other numbers as well as those on the nine. It was easy to bet beads
against beads and skins against skins, in a simple game of odd or even, but when the element
of different values for different combinations was introduced, some
medium of exchange was needed to relieve the complications.

Stones of fruit were employed just as chips or counters are used in modern gambling games, and
a regular bank was practically instituted. Each player took a certain number of these counters,
as the equivalent of the value of the merchandise which he proposed to hazard on the game, whether
it was a gun, a blanket, or some other article. Here we have all the machinery of a regular
gambling game at cards, but the resemblance does not stop here. The players put up their bets
precisely as they now do in a game of faro, selecting their favorite number and fixing the amount,
measured in the standard of the game, which they wished to hazard. "By the side of the straws
which are on the ground are found the (grains) counters," says Perrot, "which the players have
bet on the game." In another place, the method of indicating the bets is stated as follows:
"he (meaning apparently the one who has bet) is also obliged to make two other heaps. In one
he will place five, in the other seven straws, with as many (grains)
counters as he pleases."

These phrases may fairly be interpreted to mean that a record of the bets, somewhat of the
same style as that kept with counters upon a faro table, was constantly before the players.
Complicated rules determined when the players won or lost; when the bets were to be doubled
and when they were to abide the chance of another count. The loser at the game, even after
all that he had with him was gone, was sometimes permitted to continue
the game on his promise to pay.

If ill luck still pursued him the winner could refuse him credit and decline to play for stakes
that he could not see.

The game often lasted for several days, one after another of the sides relieving his comrades at
the play until one of the two sides had lost everything, it being, says Perrot, [Footnote: p. 19.]
"a maxim of the savages not to quit play until one side or the other had lost everything." Those
who had bet at the game had the right to substitute any person whom they pleased to play for
them. "Should any dispute arise on this point," says Perrot, "between the winners and the losers,
the disputants backed by their respective sides would probably come
to blows, blood would be shed and the whole thing would be very difficult
to settle."

Cheating often took place at this game. Its exposure was considered praiseworthy and its practice
denounced. If doubts were expressed as to the accuracy of a count, the matter was peacefully adjusted
by a re-count by two of the spectators.

"This game of straw," says Perrot, from whose account we have made
the foregoing digest, "is ordinarily held in the cabins of the chiefs,
which are large, and are, so to speak, the Academy of the Savages."

He concludes his account with the statement that the women never play it. [Footnote: See also
Shea's Hennepin, p. 300.] The authority on this game whom Ogilby quotes slides over the difficulties
of the description with the statement that "many other whimsies be in this game which would
be too long to commit to paper." Abbe Ferland [Footnote: Vol. I, p. 134.] epitomizes the results of
his investigation of this game as follows: "Memory, calculation and quickness of eyesight were
necessary for success."

Like the game of dice or platter it was essentially a house game,
and like platter it is rarely mentioned by writers who describe the
habits of Indians in the south.

A. W. Chase [Footnote: Overland Monthly, Vol. II, p. 433. Dorsey found a survival of the game
in use among the Omahas. He called it "stick counting."

Third Annual Report, Bureau of Ethnology, p. 338.] speaks of "native games of cards among the
Coquelles and Makneatanas, the pasteboards being bundles of sticks." He furnishes no description
of the games, but uses the same phrase which was applied by Lawson
in North Carolina and by Boucher in Canada.

Frank H. Cushing [Footnote: The Century, Vol. XXVI, p. 38. My Adventures in Zuni.] speaks of a game
of "Cane-cards" among the Zuni which he says "would grace the most civilized society with
a refined source of amusement." He was not able fully to comprehend it.

In the list of games, there is none of which we have any detailed account, which compares with
straws as played by the northern tribes, in elaborateness of construction. The unfortunate
confusion which prevails throughout Perrot's description of the method of counting, and the way
in which the point was shirked by all other writers on the subject, prevents any attempt at
analysis.

So far as we can see, the rules were arbitrary and not based upon any calculations of the laws
of chance. If some other detailed account of the game should be discovered it would be interesting
to follow up this question and ascertain how far the different combinations which affected
the counts were based upon a theory of probabilities and how far they were arbitrary.

It will of course be noticed that the game described by Lawson was relieved from much of this
complication. The dexterity required to make a throw of such a nature that the player could
tell exactly the number of reeds with which he had parted, was of course remarkable and naturally
called forth expressions of surprise. But there were apparently no other combinations resting
upon the throw than the simple guess at the number thrown. Travellers in California have described
the game in still simpler form in which we see hints of the more complex game. Here the "sticks"
were thrown in the air and an immediate guess was made whether the number thrown was odd or
even.

An umpire kept the account with other sticks and on this count the bets were adjusted. [Footnote:
Kotzebue, A Voyage of Discovery, etc. London, 1821, Vol. I, p. 282 and Vol. III, p. 44. note.
W. H. Emory, U S. and Mexican Boundary Survey, Vol. I, p. 111, says: "The Yumas played a game
with sticks like jackstraws." Stanley, Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vol. II, p.
55, gives among his "Portraits of North American Indians," a picture of a game which he describes
as "played exclusively by women. They hold in their hands twelve sticks about six inches in
length which they drop upon a rock. The sticks that fall across each other are counted for game."]

Wherever
we find it and whatever the form in use, whether simple or complicated, like games of lacrosse
and platter the occasion of its play was but an excuse for indulgence
in the inveterate spirit of gambling which everywhere prevailed.

CHUNKEE OR HOOP AND POLE.

Among the Indians at the south, observers noted and described a game
of great antiquity, of which we have no record during historical times
among those of the north, unless we should classify the game of javelin
described by Morgan [Footnote: League of the Iroquois, p. 300.] as
a modified form of the same game.

The general name by which this game was known was chunkee.

When Iberville arrived at the mouth of the Mississippi he despatched a party to explore the
river. The officer who kept the "Journal de la fregate, le Marin" was one of that party and he recorded
the fact that the Bayagoulas and Mougoulachas passed the greater part of their time in playing in this
place with great sticks which they throw after a little stone, which is nearly round and like
a bullet. [Footnote: Maigry, Deconvertes, etc., Vol. 4, p. 261.] Father Gravier descended the
river in 1700 and at the village of Houmas he saw a "fine level square
where from morning to night there are young men who exercise themselves
in running after a flat stone which they throw in the air from one
end of the square to the other, and which they try to have fall on
two cylinders that they roll where they think the stone will fall."

[Footnote: Shea's Early Voyages. Albany, 1861, p. 143.] Adair gives the following description
of the same game: "The warriors have another favorite game, called 'chungke', which, with propriety
of language may be called 'Running hard labour.' They have near their
state house [Footnote: Consult E G Squire--Aboriginal Monuments of
N.Y. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vol.

II, pp. 1356 and note p. 136.] a square piece of ground well cleaned, and fine sand is carefully
strewed over it, when requisite, to promote a swifter motion to what
they throw along the surface.

Only one or two on a side play at this ancient game. They have a stone about two fingers broad at
the edge and two spans round; each party has a pole of about eight feet long, smooth, and tapering
at each end, the points flat. They set off abreast of each other at six yards from the end of the
playground; then one of them hurls the stone on its edge, in as direct a line as he can, a
considerable distance toward the middle of the other end of the square. When they have run
a few yards, each darts his pole anointed with bears' oil, with a proper force, as near as he
can guess in proportion to the motion of the stone, that the end may lie close to the stone. When
this is the case, the person counts two of the game, and, in proportion to the nearness of
the poles to the mark, one is counted, unless by measuring, both are found to be at an equal distance
from the stone. In this manner, the players will keep running most part of the day, at half speed,
under the violent heat of the sun, staking their silver ornaments, their nose-, finger-and ear-rings;
their breast-, arm-and wrist-plates, and even all their wearing apparel, except that which barely
covers their middle. All the American Indians are much addicted to this game, which to us appears
to be a task of stupid drudgery; it seems, however, to be of early origin, when their forefathers
used diversions as simple as their manners. The hurling stones they use at present were from time
immemorial rubbed smooth on the rocks and with prodigious labor; and they are kept with the
strictest religious care, from one generation to another, and are exempted from being buried
with the dead. They belong to the town where they are used, and are carefully preserved." [Footnote:
See also Historical Collection, Louisiana and Florida. B. F. French (Vol. II.), second series,
p. 74, New York, 1875.]

Lieut. Timberlake [Footnote: Memoirs of Lieut. Henry Timberlake, etc.,
London, 1765, p. 77.] describes the game as he saw it played among
the Cherokees where it was known by the name of "Netteeawaw."

"Each player has a pole about ten feet long, with several marks or divisions. One of them bowls
a round stone with one flat side, and the other convex, on which
the players all dart their poles after it, and the nearest counts
according to the vicinity of the bowl to the marks on his pole."

 The little mermaid perceived that she had a form like theirs;
it gradually took shape out of the foam. 'To whom am I coming?' said she, and her voice sounded
like that of the other beings, so unearthly in its beauty that no music of ours could reproduce it.

'To the daughters of the air!' answered the others; 'a mermaid has no undying soul, and can
never gain one without winning the love of a human being. Her eternal life must depend upon
an unknown power. Nor have the daughters of the air an everlasting soul, but by their own good
deeds they may create one for themselves. We fly to the tropics where mankind is the victim
of hot and pestilent winds; there we bring cooling breezes. We diffuse the scent of flowers
all around, and bring refreshment and healing in our train. When, for three hundred years,
we have laboured to do all the good in our power, we gain an undying soul and take a part in
the everlasting joys of mankind. You, poor little mermaid, have with your whole heart struggled
for the same thing as we have struggled for. You have suffered and endured, raised yourself
to the spirit-world of the air, and now, by your own good deeds you may, in the course of three
hundred years, work out for yourself an undying soul.'

Then the little mermaid lifted her transparent arms towards God's sun, and for the first time
shed tears.

On board ship all was again life and bustle. She saw the prince with his lovely bride searching
for her; they looked sadly at the bubbling foam, as if they knew that she had thrown herself
into the waves. Unseen she kissed the bride on her brow, smiled at the prince, and rose aloft
with the other spirits of the air to the rosy clouds which sailed above.

'In three hundred years we shall thus float into Paradise.'

'We might reach it sooner,' whispered one. 'Unseen we flit into those homes of men where there
are children, and for every day that we find a good child who gives pleasure to its parents
and deserves their love God shortens our time of probation. The child does not know when we
fly through the room, and when we smile with pleasure at it one year of our three hundred is
taken away. He cared nothing about his soldiers, nor for the theatre, nor for driving in the
woods except for the sake of showing off his new clothes. He had a costume for every hour in
the day, and instead of saying, as one does about any other king or emperor, 'He is in his
council chamber,' here one always said, 'The Emperor is in his dressing-room.'

Life was very gay in the great town where he lived; hosts of strangers came to visit it every
day, and among them one day two swindlers. They gave themselves out as weavers, and said that
they knew how to weave the most beautiful stuffs imaginable. Not only were the colours and
patterns unusually fine, but the clothes that were made of the stuffs had the peculiar quality
of becoming invisible to every person who was not fit for the office he held, or if he was
impossibly dull.

'Those must be splendid clothes,' thought the Emperor. 'By wearing them I should be able to
discover which men in my kingdom are unfitted for their posts. I shall distinguish the wise
men from the fools. Yes, I certainly must order some of that stuff to be woven for me.'

He paid the two swindlers a lot of money in advance so that they might begin their work at once.

They did put up two looms and pretended to weave, but they had nothing whatever upon their
shuttles. At the outset they asked for a quantity of the finest silk and the purest gold thread,
all of which they put into their own bags, while they worked away at the empty looms far into
the night.

'I should like to know how those weavers are getting on with the stuff,' thought the Emperor;
but he felt a little queer when he reflected that any one who was stupid or unfit for his post
would not be able to see it. He certainly thought that he need have no fears for himself, but
still he thought he would send somebody else first to see how it was getting on. Everybody
in the town knew what wonderful power the stuff possessed, and every one was anxious to see
how stupid his neighbour was.

'I will send my faithful old minister to the weavers,' thought the Emperor. 'He will be best
able to see how the stuff looks, for he is a clever man, and no one fulfils his duties better
than he does!'

So the good old minister went into the room where the two swindlers sat working at the empty loom.

'Heaven preserve us!' thought the old minister, opening his eyes very wide. 'Why, I can't see
a thing!' But he took care not to say so.

Both the swindlers begged him to be good enough to step a little nearer, and asked if he did
not think it a good pattern and beautiful colouring. They pointed to the empty loom, and the
poor old minister stared as hard as he could, but he could not see anything, for of course
there was nothing to see.

'Good heavens!' thought he, 'is it possible that I am a fool. I have never thought so, and
nobody must know it. Am I not fit for my post? It will never do to say that I cannot see the
stuffs.'

'Well, sir, you don't say anything about the stuff,' said the one who was pretending to weave.

'Oh, it is beautiful! quite charming!' said the old minister, looking through his spectacles;
'this pattern and these colours! I will certainly tell the Emperor that the stuff pleases me
very much.'

'We are delighted to hear you say so,' said the swindlers, and then they named all the colours
and described the peculiar pattern. The old minister paid great attention to what they said,
so as to be able to repeat it when he got home to the Emperor.

Then the swindlers went on to demand more money, more silk, and more gold, to be able to proceed
with the weaving; but they put it all into their own pockets--not a single strand was ever
put into the loom, but they went on as before weaving at the empty loom.

'Is not this a beautiful piece of stuff?' said both the swindlers, showing and explaining the
beautiful pattern and colours which were not there to be seen.

'I know I am not a fool!' thought the man, 'so it must be that I am unfit for my good post!
It is very strange, though! However, one must not let it appear!' So he praised the stuff he
did not see, and assured them of his delight in the beautiful colours and the originality of
the design. 'It is absolutely charming!' he said to the Emperor. Everybody in the town was
talking about this splendid stuff.

Now the Emperor thought he would like to see it while it was still on the loom. So, accompanied
by a number of selected courtiers, among whom were the two faithful officials who had already
seen the imaginary stuff, he went to visit the crafty impostors, who were working away as hard
as ever they could at the empty loom.

'It is magnificent!' said both the honest officials. 'Only see, your Majesty, what a design!
What colours!' And they pointed to the empty loom, for they thought no doubt the others could
see the stuff.

'What!' thought the Emperor; 'I see nothing at all! This is terrible! Am I a fool? Am I not
fit to be Emperor? Why, nothing worse could happen to me!'

'Oh, it is beautiful!' said the Emperor. 'It has my highest approval!' and he nodded his satisfaction
as he gazed at the empty loom. Nothing would induce him to say that he could not see anything.

The whole suite gazed and gazed, but saw nothing more than all the others. However, they all
exclaimed with his Majesty, 'It is very beautiful!' and they advised him to wear a suit made
of this wonderful cloth on the occasion of a great procession which was just about to take
place. 'It is magnificent! gorgeous! excellent!' went from mouth to mouth; they were all equally
delighted with it. The Emperor gave each of the rogues an order of knighthood to be worn in
their buttonholes and the title of 'Gentlemen weavers.'

The swindlers sat up the whole night, before the day on which the procession was to take place,
burning sixteen candles; so that people might see how anxious they were to get the Emperor's
new clothes ready. They pretended to take the stuff off the loom. They cut it out in the air
with a huge pair of scissors, and they stitched away with needles without any thread in them.
At last they said: 'Now the Emperor's new clothes are ready!'

The Emperor, with his grandest courtiers, went to them himself, and both the swindlers raised
one arm in the air, as if they were holding something, and said: 'See, these are the trousers,
this is the coat, here is the mantle!' and so on. 'It is as light as a spider's web. One might
think one had nothing on, but that is the very beauty of it!'

'Yes!' said all the courtiers, but they could not see anything, for there was nothing to see.

'Will your imperial majesty be graciously pleased to take off your clothes,' said, the impostors,
'so that we may put on the new ones, along here before the great mirror?'

The Emperor took off all his clothes, and the impostors pretended to give him one article of
dress after the other of the new ones which they had pretended to make. They pretended to fasten
something round his waist and to tie on something; this was the train, and the Emperor turned
round and round in front of the mirror.

'How well his majesty looks in the new clothes! How becoming they are!' cried all the people
round. 'What a design, and what colours! They are most gorgeous robes!'

'The canopy is waiting outside which is to be carried over your majesty in the procession,'
said the master of the ceremonies.

'Well, I am quite ready,' said the Emperor. 'Don't the clothes fit well?' and then he turned
round again in front of the mirror, so that he should seem to be looking at his grand things.

The chamberlains who were to carry the train stooped and pretended to lift it from the ground
with both hands, and they walked along with their hands in the air. They dared not let it appear
that they could not see anything. What a splendid train! And they fit to perfection!' Nobody
would let it appear that he could see nothing, for then he would not be fit for his post, or
else he was a fool.

None of the Emperor's clothes had been so successful before.

'But he has got nothing on,' said a little child.

'Oh, listen to the innocent,' said its father; and one person whispered to the other what the
child had said. 'He has nothing on; a child says he has nothing on!'

'But he has nothing on!' at last cried all the people.

The Emperor writhed, for he knew it was true, but he thought 'the procession must go on now,'
so held himself stiffer than ever, and the chamberlains held up the invisible train.

THE WIND'S TALE

ABOUT WALDEMAR DAA AND HIS DAUGHTERS

When the wind sweeps across a field of grass it makes little ripples in it like a lake; in
a field of corn it makes great waves like the sea itself: this is the wind's frolic. Then listen
to the stories it tells; it sings them aloud, one kind of song among the trees of the forest,
and a very different one when it is pent up within walls with all their cracks and crannies.
Do you see how the wind chases the white fleecy clouds as if they were a flock of sheep? Do
you hear the wind down there, howling in the open doorway like a watchman winding his horn?
Then, too, how he whistles in the chimneys, making the fire crackle and sparkle. How cosy it
is to sit in the warm glow of the fire listening to the tales it has to tell! Let the wind
tell its own story! It can tell you more adventures than all of us put together. Listen now:--

'Whew!--Whew!--Fare away!' That was the refrain of his song.

'Close to the Great Belt stands an old mansion with thick red walls,' says the wind. 'I know
every stone of it; I knew them before when they formed part of Marsk Stig's Castle on the Ness.
It had to come down. The stones were used again, and made a new wall of a new castle in another
place--Borreby Hall as it now stands.

'I have watched the highborn men and women of all the various races who have lived there, and
now I am going to tell you about Waldemar Daa and his daughters!

'He held his head very high, for he came of a royal stock! He knew more than the mere chasing
of a stag, or the emptying of a flagon; he knew how to manage his affairs, he said himself.

'His lady wife walked proudly across the brightly polished floors, in her gold brocaded kirtle;
the tapestries in the rooms were gorgeous, and the furniture of costly carved woods. She had
brought much gold and silver plate into the house with her, and the cellars were full of German
ale, when there was anything there at all. Fiery black horses neighed in the stables; Borreby
Hall was a very rich place when wealth came there.

'Then there were the children, three dainty maidens, Ida, Johanna and Anna Dorothea. I remember
their names well.

'They were rich and aristocratic people, and they were born and bred in wealth! Whew!--whew!--fare
away!' roared the wind, then he went on with his story.

'I did not see here, as in other old noble castles the highborn lady sitting among her maidens
in the great hall turning the spinning-wheel. No, she played upon the ringing lute, and sang
to its tones. Her songs were not always the old Danish ditties, however, but songs in foreign
tongues. All was life and hospitality; noble guests came from far and wide; there were sounds
of music and the clanging of flagons, so loud that I could not drown them!' said the wind.
'Here were arrogance and ostentation enough and to spare; plenty of lords, but the Lord had
no place there.

'Then came the evening of May-day!' said the wind. 'I came from the west; I had been watching
ships being wrecked and broken up on the west coast of Jutland. I tore over the heaths and
the green wooded coasts, across the island of Funen and over the Great Belt puffing and blowing. [Footnote:
Schoolcraft, Vol. IV, p. 64; Domenech, Vol. II, p. 192.]

Among the Zunis, the guessing game was exalted to the nature of a sacred festival. Frank H. Cushing
[Footnote: The Century, Vol. XXVI, p. 37.] gives the following account of its practice. "One morning
the two chief priests of the bow climbed to the top of the houses, and just at sunrise called out
a 'prayer message' from the mount-environed gods. Eight players went into a kli-wi-lain to fast,
and four days later issued forth, bearing four large wooden tubes, a ball of stone, and a
bundle of thirty-six counting straws.

With great ceremony, many prayers and incantations, the tubes were deposited on two mock mountains
of sand, either side of the 'grand plaza.' A crowd began to gather. Larger and noisier it grew,
until it became a surging, clamorous, black mass. Gradually two piles of fabrics,--vessels,
silver ornaments, necklaces, embroideries, and symbols representing horses, cattle and sheep--grow
to large proportions. Women gathered on the roofs around, wildly stretching forth articles for
betting, until one of the presiding priests called out a brief message. The crowd became silent.
A booth was raised, under which two of ho players retired; and when
it was removed the four tubes were standing on the mound of sand.

A song and dance began. One by one three of the four opposing players were summoned to guess under
which tube the ball was hidden. At each guess the cries of the opposing
party became deafening, and the mock struggles approached the violence
of combat. They played at "Riding the Summer into the village," to Borreby village, Tareby village,
and many others.

'But that night when I rose,' said the wind, 'the noble lady laid herself down to rise no more;
that came to her which comes to every one--there was nothing new about it. Waldemar Daa stood
grave and silent for a time; "The proudest tree may bend, but it does not break," said something
within him. The daughters wept, and every one else at the Castle was wiping their eyes; but
Madam Daa had fared away, and I fared away too! Whew!--whew!' said the wind.

'I came back again; I often came back across the island of Funen and the waters of the Belt,
and took up my place on Borreby shore close to the great forest of oaks. The ospreys and the
wood pigeons used to build in it, the blue raven and even the black stork! It was early in
the year; some of the nests were full of eggs, while in others the young ones were just hatched.
What a flying and screaming was there! Then came the sound of the axe, blow upon blow; the
forest was to be felled. Waldemar Daa was about to build a costly ship, a three-decked man-of-war,
which it was expected the king would buy. So the wood fell, the ancient landmark of the seaman,
the home of the birds. The shrike was frightened away; its nest was torn down; the osprey and
all the other birds lost their nests too, and they flew about distractedly, shrieking in their
terror and anger. The crows and the jackdaws screamed in mockery, Caw! caw! Waldemar Daa and
his three daughters stood in the middle of the wood among the workmen. They all laughed at
the wild cries of the birds, except Anna Dorothea, who was touched by their distress, and when
they were about to fell a tree which was half-dead, and on whose naked branches a black stork
had built its nest, out of which the young ones were sticking their heads, she begged them
with tears in her eyes to spare it. So the tree with the black stork's nest was allowed to
stand. It was only a little thing.

'The chopping and the sawing went on--the three-decker was built. The master builder was a
man of humble origin, but of noble loyalty; great power lay in his eyes and on his forehead,
and Waldemar Daa liked to listen to him, and little Ida liked to listen too, the eldest fifteen-year-old
daughter. But whilst he built the ship for her father, he built a castle in the air for himself,
in which he and little Ida sat side by side as man and wife. This might also have happened
if his castle had been built of solid stone, with moat and ramparts, wood and gardens. But
with all his wisdom the shipbuilder was only a poor bird, and what business has a sparrow in
a crane's nest? Whew! whew! I rushed away, and he rushed away, for he dared not stay, and little
Ida got over it, as get over it she must.

'The fiery black horses stood neighing in the stables; they were worth looking at, and they
were looked at to some purpose too. An admiral was sent from the King to look at the new man-of-war,
with a view to purchasing it. The admiral was loud in his admiration of the horses. I heard
all he said,' added the wind. 'I went through the open door with the gentlemen and scattered
the straw like gold before their feet. Waldemar Daa wanted gold; the admiral wanted the black
horses, and so he praised them as he did; but his hints were not taken, therefore the ship
remained unsold. There it stood by the shore covered up with boards, like a Noah's Ark which
never reached the water. Whew! whew! get along! get along! It was a miserable business. In
the winter, when the fields were covered with snow and the Belt was full of ice-floes which
I drove up on to the coast,' said the wind, 'the ravens and crows came in flocks, the one blacker
than the other, and perched upon the desolate, dead ship by the shore. Two were held in the open
palm of the left hand and the third was dropped round side down upon the ends of the two, so
that all would fall to the ground. If two convex surfaces came up the player won. He also
says, and in this Romans concurs, that the women were very reluctant to be seen while playing.

Among
the Natchez, the young girls played ball with a deer-skin ball stuffed with Spanish moss. Other
than that they seemed to him to have no games.

Hennepin says, "the children play with bows and with two sticks,
one large and one small. They come and go just as I do. The snow-flakes,
the apple blossom, and the leaves fall, each in their turn. Whew! whew! they pass away, as
men pass too!

'The daughters were still young. Little Ida, the rose, as lovely to look at as when the shipbuilder
turned his gaze upon her. I often took hold of her long brown hair when she stood lost in thought
by the apple-tree in the garden. She never noticed that I showered apple-blossom over her loosened
hair; she only gazed at the red sunset against the golden background of the sky, and the dark
trees and bushes of the garden. Her sister Johanna was like a tall, stately lily; she held
herself as stiffly erect as her mother, and seemed to have the same dread of bending her stem.
She liked to walk in the long gallery where the family portraits hung. The ladies were painted
in velvet and silk, with tiny pearl embroidered caps on their braided tresses. Their husbands
were all clad in steel, or in costly cloaks lined with squirrel skins and stiff blue ruffs;
their swords hung loosely by their sides. Where would Johanna's portrait one day hang on these
walls? What would her noble husband look like? I used to meet her in the garden, the ravine,
and in the manor fields. She was always picking flowers and herbs, those she knew her father
could use for healing drinks and potions. Waldemar Daa was proud and conceited, but he was
also learned, and he knew a great deal about many things. One could see that, and many whispers
went about as to his learning. The fire blazed in his stove even in summer, and his chamber
door was locked. This went on for days and nights, but he did not talk much about it. One must
deal silently with the forces of nature. He would soon discover the best of everything, the
red, red gold!

'This was why his chimney flamed and smoked and sparkled. Yes, I was there, too,' said the wind.

'Away with you, away! I sang in the back of the chimney. Smoke smoke, embers and ashes, that
is all it will come to! You will burn yourself up in it. Whew! whew! away with it! But Waldemar
Daa could not let it go.

'The fiery steeds in the stable, where were they? The old gold and silver plate in cupboard
and chest, where was that? The cattle, the land, the castle itself? Yes, they could all be
melted down in the crucible, but yet no gold would come.

'Barn and larder got emptier and emptier. Fewer servants; more mice. One pane of glass got
broken and another followed it. There was no need for me to go in by the doors,' said the wind.
'A smoking chimney means a cooking meal, but the only chimney which smoked here swallowed up
all the meals, all for the sake of the red gold.

'I blew through the castle gate like a watchman blowing his horn, but there was no watchman,'
said the wind. 'I twisted round the weather-cock on the tower and it creaked as if the watchman
up there was snoring, only there was no watchman. Rats and mice were the only inhabitants.
Poverty laid the table; poverty lurked in wardrobe and larder. The doors fell off their hinges,
cracks and crannies appeared everywhere; I went in and out,' said the wind, 'so I know all
about it.

'The hair and the beard of Waldemar Daa grew grey, in the sorrow of his sleepless nights, amid
smoke and ashes. His skin grew grimy and yellow, and his eyes greedy for gold, the long expected
gold.

'I whistled through the broken panes and fissures; I blew into the daughters' chests where
their clothes lay faded and threadbare; they had to last for ever. A song like this had never
been sung over the cradles of these children. A lordly life became a woeful life! I was the
only one to sing in the castle now,' said the wind. 'I snowed them up, for they said it gave
warmth. They had no firewood, for the forest was cut down where they should have got it. There
was a biting frost. Even I had to keep rushing through the crannies and passages to keep myself
lively. They stayed in bed to keep themselves warm, those noble ladies. Their father crept
about under a fur rug. Nothing to bite, and nothing to burn! a lordly life indeed! Whew! whew!
let it go! But this was what Waldemar Daa could not do.

'"After winter comes the spring," said he; "a good time will come after a time of need; but
they make us wait their pleasure, wait! The castle is mortgaged, we are in extremities--and
yet the gold will come--at Easter!"

'I heard him murmur to the spider's web.--"You clever little weaver! You teach me to persevere!
If your web is broken, you begin at the beginning again and complete it! Broken again--and
cheerfully you begin it over again. That is what one must do, and one will be rewarded!"

'It was Easter morning, the bells were ringing, and the sun was at play in the heavens. Waldemar
Daa had watched through the night with his blood at fever pitch; boiling and cooling, mixing
and distilling. I heard him sigh like a despairing soul; I heard him pray, and I felt that
he held his breath. The lamp had gone out, but he never noticed it; I blew up the embers and
they shone upon his ashen face, which took a tinge of colour from their light; his eyes started
in their sockets, they grew larger and larger, as if they would leap out.

'Look at the alchemist's glass! something twinkles in it; it is glowing, pure and heavy. He
reeled, and I could easily have blown him over,' said the wind, 'but I only blew upon the embers,
and followed him to the room where his daughters sat shivering. His coat was powdered with
ash, as well as his beard and his matted hair. He drew himself up to his full height and held
up his precious treasure, in the fragile glass: "Found! won! gold!" he cried, stretching up
his hand with the glass which glittered in the sunbeams: his hand shook, and the alchemist's
glass fell to the ground shivered into a thousand atoms. The last bubble of his welfare was
shattered too. Whew! whew! fare away! and away I rushed from the goldmaker's home.

'Late in the year, when the days were short and dark up here, and the fog envelops the red
berries and bare branches with its cold moisture, I came along in a lively mood clearing the
sky and snapping off the dead boughs. This is no great labour, it is true, yet it has to be
done. Borreby Hall, the home of Waldemar Daa, was having a clean sweep of a different sort.
The family enemy, Ové Ramel from Basness, appeared, holding the mortgage of the Hall and all
its contents. I drummed upon the cracked window panes, beat against the decaying doors, and
whistled through all the cracks and crannies, whew! I did my best to prevent Herr Ové taking
a fancy to stay there. Ida and Anna Dorothea faced it bravely, although they shed some tears;
Johanna stood pale and erect and bit her finger till it bled! Much that would help her! Ové
Ramel offered to let them stay on at the Castle for Waldemar Daa's lifetime, but he got no
thanks for his offer; I was listening. I saw the ruined gentleman stiffen his neck and hold
his head higher than ever. I beat against the walls and the old linden trees with such force
that the thickest branch broke, although it was not a bit rotten. It fell across the gate like
a broom, as if some one was about to sweep; and a sweeping there was indeed to be. I quite
expected it. It was a grievous day and a hard time for them, but their wills were as stubborn
as their necks were stiff. They had not a possession in the world but the clothes on their
backs; yes, one thing--an alchemist's glass which had been bought and filled with the fragments
scraped up from the floor. The treasure which promised much and fulfilled nothing. III, p. 2.]
describes the game as practised among the Natchez. He calls it "Le Jeu de la Perche which would
be better named de la crosse." Dumont who was stationed at Natchez and also on the Yazoo,
describes the game and speaks of it as "La Crosse."

[Footnote: Memoires Historiques sur la Louisiane, Paris, 1753, Vol. I, p. 202.]

Adair is correct when he speaks of the antiquity of this game.

    When he dwells upon the fact that these stones
    are handed down from generation to generation, as the property of
the village, he brings these tribes close to the mound dwellers.

Sanier, [Footnote: Ancient Monuments of the Mississippi Valley, p. 223.] speaking of discoidal stones,
found in the mounds, says, "It is known that among the Indian tribes of the Ohio and along
the Gulf, such stones were in common use in certain favorite games." Lucien Carr [Footnote: 10th
Annual Report Peabody Museum, p. 93. See also Schoolcraft's Indian tribes, Vol. I, p. 83.] describes
and pictures a chunkee stone from Ely Mound, Va. Lewis and Clarke [Footnote: Lewis and Clarke's
Expedition, Phila, 1814, Vol. I, p. 143.] describe the game as played
among the Mandans.

This tribe had a wooden platform prepared on the ground between two of their lodges. Along
this platform the stone ring was rolled and the sticks were slid
along the floor in pursuit of it.

Catlin [Footnote: Vol. I, p. 132 et seq. Dorsey describes two forms of the game in use among
the Omahas: "shooting at the rolling wheel" and "stick and ring" Third Annual Report. Bureau
of Ethnology, pp. 335-336. cf.

Travels in the Interior of America, in the years 1809, 1810 and 1811,
by John Bradbury, p. 126.] describes the game as played by the same
tribe.

They had a carefully prepared pavement of clay on which they played. The "Tchunkee" sticks
were marked with bits of leather and the counts of the game were affected by the position of the
leather on or near which the ring lodged.

The Mojaves are accustomed to play a similar game which has been described under the name "Hoop
and Pole". [Footnote: Lieut. A. W. Whipple in Pac. R. R. Rep.. Vol. III, p. 114; Harper's Mag.,
Vol. XVII, p. 463; Domenech. Vol. II, p. 197; H. H. Bancroft's Native Races, Vol. I, p. 393,
p. 517 and note 133. The Martial Experiences of the California Volunteers by Edward Carlsen,
Overland, Vol. VII, No. 41. 2nd Series, p. 494.] A similar game was played by the Navajoes.
[Footnote: Major E. A. Backus in Schoolcraft. Vol.
 I had to mind what I was about,'
said the wind. 'The cottage was allowed to stand for the sake of the stork's nest; in itself
it was only a scarecrow on the heath, but the dean did not want to frighten away the stork,
so the hovel was allowed to stand. The poor soul inside was allowed to live in it; she had
the Egyptian bird to thank for that; or was it payment for once having pleaded for the nest
of his wild black brother in the Borreby Forest? Then, poor thing, she was a child, a delicate,
pale hyacinth in a noble flower-garden. Poor Anna Dorothea; she remembered it all! Ah, human
beings can sigh as well as the wind when it soughs through the rushes and reeds.

'Oh dear! oh dear! No bells rang over the grave of Waldemar Daa. No schoolboys sang when the
former lord of Borreby Castle was laid in his grave. Well, everything must have an end, even
misery! Sister Ida became the wife of a peasant, and this was her father's sorest trial. His
daughter's husband a miserable serf, who might at any moment be ordered the punishment of the
wooden horse by his lord. It is well that the sod covers him now, and you too, Ida! Ah yes!
ah yes! Poor me! poor me! I still linger on. In Thy mercy release me, O Christ!'

'This was the prayer of Anna Dorothea, as she lay in the miserable hovel which was only left
standing for the sake of the stork.

'I took charge of the boldest of the sisters,' said the wind. 'She had clothes made to suit
her manly disposition, and took a place as a lad with a skipper. Her words were few and looks
stubborn, but she was willing enough at her work. But with all her will she could not climb
the rigging; so I blew her overboard before any one discovered that she was a woman, and I
fancy that was not a bad deed of mine!' said the wind. This would have been so this morning
whether the sun had shone upon her or not. I know where it is, and hers too, which is more
than any one else knows.

'The old order changeth, giving place to the new. The old high-road now only leads to cultivated
fields, while peaceful graves are covered by busy traffic on the new road. Soon comes Steam
with its row of waggons behind it, rushing over the graves, forgotten, like the names upon
them. Whew! whew! Let us be gone! This is the story of Waldemar Daa and his daughters. Tell
it better yourselves, if you can,' said the wind, as it veered round. Then it was gone.

Printed in Great Britain

Text printed by T. and A. Constable, Printers to His Majesty, Edinburgh

Illustrations by Henry Stone and Son, Ltd., Banbury

