 Admiral Dewey gave me all prisoners and all weapons, except the steam, but later demanded repayment
of the prisoners after the capitulation of Manila. On July 4 became
the first U.S. military expedition under General Anderson, being
housed in the Arsenal de Cavite.

Shortly before this military expedition, and those that came after the General Merritt, Admiral Dewey,
he sent his secretary, the dictatorial government asking permission
to place American troops in Tambo and Maytubig, places of the towns
of Parañaque and Pasay; to all that the Dictatorial Government agreed
to the honest promises because of Admiral Dewey entered above.

In the same month of July, arrived at Cavite Admiral accompanied by General
Anderson, and after the greetings of courtesy, told me: - Have you
seen confirmed everything I said and promised .-- How pretty your
flag .-- It is a triangle and resembles that of Cuba .-- I give V.
a souvenir when I return to America? "I said he was convinced his honest
word and no need to extend their agreements on paper, and that as
to the flag, could count on her even if at the time.

Dewey continued : Documents are not met when there is no honor, as with what you negotiated with
the Spanish who missed writing and signed. Trust you represent in my speech,
I reply that the United States recognized the independence of the country.
- But for now I recommend you keep a lot of reserves in all that we
have discussed and agreed .-- And besides, I beg for your patience,
if our soldiers trampled to a Filipino volunteer for still lack discipline.
replied the Admiral that this would reserve all of its recommendations,
and that as to the abuse of the soldiers had been given the appropriate
orders thereon, causing the Admiral as warning against our soldiers.

XI. SPANISH COMMISSION Admiral suddenly changing course of the conversation,
I asked: why not stand the citizens of Manila, as they have done
and the provinces?

Is it true that they accept the autonomy offered by the General Assembly
of Representatives Augustin with? Is it true that I notice received,
it has left a Manila Philippine Commission to propose the acceptance
of such autonomy, and to recognize V. General employment and his companions,
who enjoy?

I said that Manila will not rise because they have no weapons, and because as merchants and property
owners who are afraid to get up, take over the Spanish riches , burning and distruyendo else, so they seem
to accept the autonomy policy of deception. But I hope that all Filipinos
in Manila were in favor of independence, as would check the date
of the taking of Manila by our troops. then I think the citizens of
Manila cheered us Philippine Independence, making new gestures of
support to our Government.

I told him it was true he had also been a Joint Commission in the name of General and Archbishop
Agustin Nozaleda, which I'd Commission stated that they were bound by the Spanish, but which
it stated its commitment to our cause.

The members of the Commission submitted that the Spanish I had recommended
them said they came of their own volition, without specific mission
or excitement of the Spanish authorities, appearing to be faithful
interpreters of all the citizens of Manila, but they say as long as
one accepts autonomy, General Augustin and Archbishop Nozaleda I recognize
the use of General and those of my colleagues gave me a million dollars,
no compensation received from the pact of Biak-na-Bato, and a good
job with great salary in the House of Representatives, promises to
the commissioners that they paid no credit but some felt that the
money was received for taking it away from the box of the Spanish
Government and as from the contribution of the Filipinos.

The commissioners concluded for sure that they would rise in Manila,
whether weapons were provided, and the best thing I could do was to
attack Manila by the locations indicated as weaknesses, defended by
Spanish detachments easy cornering.

Thanked the Commission for its sincerity and frankness, and said,
to withdraw quietly, doing this to those who had ordered that were
not received due to lack of credentials, and that although they had
been seen as and heard of other revolutionaries, D. Emilio Aguinaldo
would not accept their offers of autonomy, because the Filipino people
had enough illustration to govern themselves and was tired of being
martyred by the abuse of power foreigner, so you do not want more
than their independence, and so the Spanish could be prepared to defend
their sovereignty, because the Philippine military attack them hard
and consistently to take Manila. commissioners also instructed to
tell Nozaleda, who abused a lot in the exercise of his high office,
was driving contrary to the precepts of the Supreme Pontiff if not
I would be amended, when least expected, set out to bring forth things
that fill them with shame, and he knew that Augustin had united to
commissioner to four German and five French people who would kill
me disguised under the mistaken hope, doubt that I am dead, the Filipino
people would submit quietly to the sovereignty of Spain crasísimo
error, because if he had been killed, the Filipino people continued
the more heat the revolution, surjirían other men like me to avenge
my death.

And Finally, I recommended to the commissioners to tell the citizens of
Manila was occupied in their industries and businesses, can rest
assured our Government with respect to which a standard of conduct
was righteousness and justice, because we did not have those virtues
which corrupt friars civic, that the Philippine government seeks to
hold in the eyes of all nations.

To work, therefore, in their business and not think about leaving Manila for this country, where resources
were scarce, and because there are too many people who served the Government
and army, and if something was missing weapons were.

The Commission asked what the U.S. would impose conditions and what benefits would give the Filipino
people, to which I replied that it was difficult to answer the question in view of the commitment
he had to quiet the terms of the agreement, specifically to convey
to be fixed in the acts of sovereignty exercised by our Government
Dictatorial, especially in the waters of the bay.

These words made little impression on the Admiral, to the point of interrupting the translation
of my words by the interpreter Mr. Leyva, and challenge me by saying:
Why has revealed V. Our secret?

You mean V. does not comply with my luggage and offered silent? I replied
that no disclosure was made secrecy concerning him and the Consul. The admiral,
thanking me for my reservation, took leave in conjunction with the
General Anderson, but not suspended by then beg the attack on Manila,
because they were studying a plan, to take his forces Intramuros,
leaving the suburbs for making ours.

Encargóme, however, to consider another plan for me to combine it with
yours, with everything that I settled. XII. NEW AMERICAN TROOPS Soon,
American troops arrived and with them the General Merritt, the Government
presented Dictatorial the Secretary of the Admiral with two chiefs
to ask to be granted Maytubig occupy our trenches, from the beach
to the highway, where they would join in cord with Philippine troops
occupying Pasay and Singalong, I agreed to this also because he repeated
the solemn pledges of natural admiral and hopes of them born on the
support and recognition of our independence.

Ten days after occupied by American forces, Maytubig, knowing that the Spanish who were fortified
against the magazine in San Antonio Abad, on the night were surprised
by the American advanced to consist of a few individuals had no time
to jump out of bed and fall back toward its center, leaving their rifles
and 6 guns. hearing the shooting by our troops immediately came to the aid
of friends and allies, by fleeing to the Spanish and recovering guns
and cannons of his power, whose weapons were ordered returned to the
Americans in the law of friendship. Noriel General opposed it return,
claiming that such weapons was not the Americans, when they occupied the
Philippine forces of the Spanish power, but neglecting the reasoned
opposition of my general, strictly ordering the return of weapons
to the Americans, thus demonstrating clearly and obviously the sincere
friendship of the Filipinos.

These rifles and heavy guns with ammunition, were thus returned to those who were our allies then, notwithstanding
that the General Noriel and their forces had captured at the expense of the lives of many comrades.
Shortly after U.S. reinforcements arrived and a After Admiral Dewey,
through its Secretary interested in more trenches for his army, claiming
they were short and that previously had given them, then were granted
a continuation until about Pasay.

XIII. On August 13 came the day August 13 I noticed a movement in general attack Manila by the American
fleet and land forces were commanded by General Anderson in Parañaque. Then I ordered my troops to attack
on all lines, getting the Pio General del Pilar Sampalok enter and to attack Spanish troops defending
the suspension bridge, which retreated to the bridge in Spain. The
backbone of our General Gregorio H. Pillar took the suburbs of the
parapet, Tondo, Divisoria and Paseo de Azcarraga north of Manila, and
the General Noriel, on the side of Pasay, took the suburbs of Singalong
and Pako, following the column behind American and Spanish forces
flanking defending the line of S. Antonio Abad, as seen by the Spanish
leaders, ordered the withdrawal of its troops towards Intramuros,
which the American forces occupying the front line trenches, they
went, without firing a shot, on the outskirts of Malate and Ermita,
but there met with the troops of General Noriel who had possession
of those suburbs and established his headquarters in the convent of
Malate and Ermita, in buildings that were on the Regional Exhibition
Philippine Normal School and the house of Mr . Perez, Pako on.

In Santa Ana, eastern part of Manila, General Ricarte managed to surround the five columns Spanish,
aided by troops of General Pio del Pilar. XIV. Thunderheads FIRST Ours
saw American forces landed on the beaches of the bezel and Paseo de
Santa Lucia, calling the attention of all the Spanish soldiers who were
in the wall of the City not to pull against those, dark mystery to
this day, it was explained by the news of the capitulation of the square
made by the Spanish General, Mr Jaudenes, the American General, Mr.
Merritt; capitulation reserved American Generals in breach of agreed with
Admiral Dewey on training and make plans to attack Manila, together
and in combination the two armies, American and Filipino.

This inexplicable behavior of Americans Heads became more evident with the telegram that General
Anderson in the 13th, I went from Maytubig, praying to order our troops
not to enter in Manila, a request that was denied, since it was contrary
to the agreement and to the high aims the revolutionary government,
which by taking the immense task of besieging Manila for two months
and a half, sacrificing thousands of lives and millions of material
interests could not be, surely, with an object rather than the capture
Manila and the Spanish garrison that firmly and tenaciously defended
the square.

But General Merrit tenacious in purpose, rogóme and not through the Admiral,
if not for the Mayor Bell, withdraw my troops from the suburbs, in
order to prevent threats and conflicts are always fear in a dual
military occupation and to avoid it to the troops, ridicule, offering
in its three letters, negotiate, after carrying out his wishes, to
which he responded, but not all at once and only once, but phasing
doing to our troops, until they reached the blokhaus, sludge so that
the people of Manila to witness our military events, and so consistent
behavior with our American allies.

Until then and until the date on which the Americans broke open hostilities
against us, wrapped in my pit had the most reason to hope that the
American leaders at his government would enforce the agreements concluded
verbally with the head of the Philippine Revolution, yet the signs
to the contrary that were apparent in their behavior especially in
that of Admiral Dewey, for no reason, one day in October seizure
of our ships and boats.

Cognizant of this strange proceeding, being now the Revolutionary
Government in Malolos, sent a Commission to the General Otis to discuss
the matter, who returned and recommended to our commissioners admiral,
which were not received by the admiral, despite the recommendation
of General Otis.

In spite of this come from the American leaders, so contrary to all
agreements and records referred to above, I kept watching them, the
same conduct friendly, sending a Commission which was to dismiss the
General Merrit, when his departure for Paris to act grateful that
General, was kind enough to express to our commissioners, who would
defend to the Filipinos in the United States and sent to Admiral Dewey
himself a dagger with its sheath, all in silver and a fine cane rod
with a rod of wrought gold for the best Filipino silversmith, old
memories of affection and friendship, the admiral agreed, thus comforting
and somehow my afflicted soul and that of all Filipinos who formed
the Revolutionary Government, making new revival in the hearts of
all the alhagüeñas hopes of a settlement with Admiral Dewey.

XV.

HOPES FAILED But such hopes were dispelled when he received the news that Mr. Dewey had worked and
worked well against the Revolutionary Government by order of the leaving. Mr. Mac-Kinley, which
influenced by the imperialist party, had decided to annex the Philippines,
perhaps yielding to the ambition to exploit the immense natural wealth
that hides our virgin soil.

This news came like a thunderbolt in the field of the revolution.
- Some cursed the day time and have been treated orally with the
Americans, others have given the suburbs censored .-- And again, chose
to send a commission to General Otis to cause frank statements about
the situation, the treaty formalized friendship, if the United States
recognized our independence, - or broke in the act of hostilities,
if he refused to do so.

In such a serious situation to all counseled moderation and caution,
because even waiting on justice and righteousness of Congress United
States would not approve the imperialist tendencies of the party,
and hear the voice of Admiral Dewey, who, as senior representative
of America in these islands, arranged and negotiated with me and the
Filipino people and the recognition of our independence. not otherwise
effect, one must consider such a serious matter, for if America relied
on the Admiral Dewey, the honor of their weapons in such distant lands,
but the Filipinos could also rely on promises of honest and brave
as a knight met marine insurance the great and noble American people
desautorizaría or expose to ridicule, the illustrious conqueror of
the Spanish fleet.

Similarly to this trial leads to the fact no less evident and notorious,
that other American leaders who came after high-profile victories
of Admiral, Generals Anderson and Merritt Otis proclaimed the Filipino
people that America did not come to conquer territories if not to
free their people from the oppression of Spanish sovereignty.

It would, therefore, also describe the honor of these leaders to universal ridiculous if the U.S. official
and public discrediting conduct its annexing the islands by conquest.
XVI.

I had seen, almost at the moment of Miss Kate's disclosure, that a change was to come in our
relations. Pepe Paz had made clear to the situation of his family, his father was a former Treasury official
and modest, that he had to abandon the race due to lack of resources to follow, subject to employment
granted almost by charity, but it was not later: nothing said of the press, the support of
Millan of the galleys, or day laborer tasks. At first it was not quite open for that same
mischievous vanity Leocadia, and then for lack of courage: even knowing
Paz as getting to know, was afraid to say it: - "The man you love,
you, Miss rich, spoiled by fortune, going at night to earn a wage
that comes on Saturdays as blacksmiths and bricklayers." He imagined
he would lose: his eyes was entirely absurd Paz, after knowing this,
continue to love him.

Modern life offered him every step examples of daughters of powerful families who had a whim
love to marry a poor journalist, with a little lawyer, with anyone, even the poorest of the middle
class but who ever seen these days that a lady made to tread rugs and stick figure with silks, hand deliver
a journeyman? Pepe said nothing, without fearing that she knew the whole truth, but without courage
to say it with his own lips. Hearing her cry frequently between passionate and affectionate,
"Pepe me how much I love you!" Pulses reveal his assailants that he hid a shame, but then, watching
all the beauties dressed in luxury, move your hands or examined them carelessly, fearful, and her
sister, to find them printed on the dirty stain of work. IV Don Luis
Maria de Agreda, a senator elected, with the assets and influence he
had in his village, was one of the stubborn old liberal to survive
his party of those who put national sovereignty above all, and for
whom there was no contemporary Spain but four men of great worth:
Mendizabal, for the confiscation; Espartero, having defeated the Carlist;
Olózaga for discussing before anyone traditional barriers, and Prim,
to follow in his footsteps.

The fortune of Don Luis, to be respectable, was none other how much
they spent in plotting against his father Sartorius and Narvaez, but
the best was inherited a great love for the progressive party, much
antipathy to demagoguery, which struck him as something paid with
gold from the reaction, and a moderate repulsion and Carlist invincible.

The work of Don Luis on boards and committees of the party, articles,
projects and opinions he wrote, would be incalculable, and an infinite number
of times that projected third in the debates, but never had the courage
to break to speak in public or to send two pages a newspaper. It was
silly and it seemed, because without really having influence among his own people
know how their loyalty accordingly and should give more prominence it
enjoyed, being somewhat vain. As the word evil was due to his thinking,
fled the long dialogues and discussions in a circle, merely making
signs of affirmation or denial to the head, and at best saying terse
sentences, taking on his lips pretentious tone judgments.

Many considered him a formal man, but of short range, and some donkey treated him seriously.
Those walked closer to the truth, because without an intelligence insider Don Luis, was honest and final, if
somewhat embittered, to imagine that it should shine and bubbling over in his party. What was
his real claim to fame for who came to know, was the education that he gave his daughter. For the
widowed thirty-two years and suggested that peace, when he was missing, was able to live by themselves,
without outside help, they know to manage your fortune and learn to know his heart, not leave it exposed
to predation or tutorescas errors of inexperience. Many times he said: - "Know how much you have, hard
drive, and you must always think about what you're going to do, so that neither the neighbor nor rob
you you fool yourself." Paz was a season of three years in a school run by nuns, which was not liked
by his father, but what do if there was not another lineage Madrid
home education? He learned to write with beautiful letter, to speak
quite well in French and incomplete rudiments of many things: little
sewing, embroidery something and pray a lot.

Without leaving school he also knew what was happening in Madrid until insides of families that no
one cared, but, apparently, for the mothers there were no secrets, so that output Sunday, Don Luis was
amazed listening to your youngster he did not hear or the gossips of the Casino. This, and a
vanity tantico that was awakening in the soul of Peace, led her father
out of the convent school, but although he wanted to do so with great
caution and circumspection, finally had to be strong, because the
holy women had sought to attract the child's will.

"This led them to the goodness of Peace? "Seek the conquest of his beautiful voice to the chapel?
Prendáronse perhaps the enthusiasm with which was the first to spend their savings purchasing
rich schoolgirl, and the altar cloth of Christ, and the touches of the Virgin, and the fit for altar cloth?
This was a holiday, can not go look for Don Luis sent the carriage to a
relative, who returned for lunch alone, referring to the good mother
had said that Mile Peace does not come out.

Don Luis, thinking that her daughter was ill, immediately went to see this and, to the chagrin
of the superior, the girl had to be brought into the presence of
the father, who spent a very bad time noting that his peace, without
being punished, or sick, is paved with good grace to stay there instead
of going to spend the day with him.

Finally got his daughter to follow him, and that night not allowed to return to school. "There
is no more mothers than I - said Don Luis - and has since devoted himself
to the care and upbringing of their daughter, without losing therefore,
his excessive fondness for public affairs.

The letters of the superior and the embassies of the chaplain, so in vain efforts to regain
the lost sheep, but failed to make returns to the fold. Thereafter, Don Luis allowed to Peace, from
time to time, spend something in Sabanilla, lace shawls, but left to set foot back in the convent.
Meekness, which is great virtue, prevented the nuns offend: not out of his mouth word of reproach,
nothing they tried to exacerbate the nascent devotion, perhaps frustrated vocation of peace, but
neither forgot to remember on certain days and holidays solemn on the edge of Madrid had a house
that is holy that it has been honored by being required to disciple and occasionally send
alms to charity, a bouquet of flowers for that altar, in whose steps he knelt
so often .

As peace was good, the treasure of love which he found in his house the school was soon forgotten,
and that went out as a hobby Mongil hand. Freedom of action, sending healthy pride in your home
as the owner and, especially, the skilled paternal love, drowned while the pious kidnapping may
have occurred. It took a few weeks of this life, and the school, before some poetry steeped
in quiet, was reduced in the imagination of Peace to a collection of memories cold and colorless.
After a year, Don Luis, choosing carefully where houses had started it at the called good society,
which touched his finery and the more worried than before the clothes of the holy images: the
cabinet full of beauties and the soft bed were most pleasing to the cold and narrow bed bedroom schoolgirl,
she wore flowers in their hair cut by hand in the garden of the house, dethroning the clusters
of the altar cloth and for height of wickedness, the first symphony
of Mozart that he heard playing in his ears sounded more pleasant
than the litanies, salves and motets.

The number of impressions experienced Paz treading strange houses rooms was not, however, as enjoyable
as the he felt going to reign in his own home. A bit of live with his father, he learned of their
business, explaining what his fortunes, helping it to manage interest, which came to persuade
Paz that Don Luis was an honest man, and the origin of what was decent and clean. Instead, he
began to see that not all houses or all men as his home and his father. Though incomplete and veiled
by education and the hypocrisy, bad light came to his eyes, causing a sensation similar to
the one who suffer, made just to breathe clean air, suddenly enter an atmosphere vitiated. The
instinct was supplied to the mischief, the evil genius: the imagination
could not fathom the causes of things, but saw the impact and that
was enough to enter the soul is a healthy fear. In his mind there
were two simultaneous impulses: awakening to the moral concerns of
life and distrust anyone to share his emotions. With his father had all
the sincerity as possible, but these mysterious desires, those doubts
naive reserved for those women whispered to one her heart, not left
their lips.

The gallant and flattering phrases the instilled a restless anticipation, a vague terror that prevented
display pleased: it was like a bird who was afraid to network. If a man flattered her ear
with tenderness or asked hopes, she involuntarily remembered many unhappy married couples badly disunited,
households seemed inns, where husband and wife accused indifference, diversion, if not disgust.
Love not let himself to deny her beauty, but his instinct said danger in their wealth. Being loved
by another, it seemed easy to know what love would be sincere, I judged impossible. I wanted to hide
the welfare of his house, and sometimes extravagant impulses felt jokes, easily conceal their desire
for achievement, like those princes of rigorous travel incognito to thank the sympathy that inspire
and hear the language of openness. "The best costume - used to say - is that it costs more disguised."
* * * * * One afternoon he saw Pepe enter Senate library a gentleman about
fifty, tall, graying, his face shaven and looking entirely too clean,
contact the main charge, he said - I come to ask you a favor. Can you
recommend one of these guys have you here, at your service for a
few mornings to come to my house and help me tidy up my library?

I have new shelves and books must be transferred site. A wise guy, huh? - Hey you this - Pepe asked
the boss, and addressing the gentleman, he added .-- No one else in point: his earnestness
and his illustration will serve you much. Almost a lawyer ... who made the request looked at Joe,
and the authority that gave him his age, he spoke thus: - Let's see, young man. A boy, though not needed,
never hurts a puñadillo of dollars. Have you heard what we discussed? You want to come to my
house a few mornings? - Yes sir, and I will do my best to accommodate you. - Well, I count on you When will
we start? because I have it there all messed up. - When you want. - Tomorrow. We hope in the morning
to eleven. When he was gone, Pepe thanked the librarian and asked who was the gentleman. - is Don
Luis Maria de Agreda, Senator, very good person. Of those who never talk, and forward to the
old, very rich. There's no more to attend the vote, but is always
saying he will be speaking ... and never speaks.

Then
he gave the address of the house of Don Luis and separated. V Turning to the appointment of
M. de Agreda, a half-past ten the next morning Pepe entered it in the hotel rooms, located at the
end de la Castellana. crossed the garden, small and neat, up the stairs, full of pots, which
seemed to be guarding two magnificent bronze dogs, and entered the office, which was part of the ground
floor. The wood floor was assembled, the magnificent tapestries, the furniture comfortable and luxurious,
all charged a lot of money. the order indicated table, great care and little work: all that was
on it was well placed, but without the confusion there runs at all,
typical of the ongoing work . The books were few, richly bound, and no signs
of frequent handling: it should be those which had to be sorted. In
two ends of wall covered with a very dark flowered gold, there were
two portraits of women.

In one, the dress and hairstyle in the fashion of 1850, but above all, paint, licking and rummaging
subtleties, betrayed the hand of one of those artists who kept the elegant style reminiscent of Don
Vicente López, without having obtained force of the great painters of our contemporaries. The
lady was combed her hair done two great waves, very smooth, and his features were extremely
alike to the one portrayed in the canvas, but it was the beauty of
the first complete and harmonious.

Despite this difference, so much alike, it was easy to guess their
relationship.

They must be mother and daughter, judging by the age of each one
represented by the difference of the costumes.

The portrait of the youngest was a double great, by the model and
the invoice. A piece of gauze covered her impalpable shoulders, like a ruff
old, his face almost in shadow, eyes tight for a livor dark, bent forward and
put his head between the hair a pink pen, weightless loose, that
seemed ready to move at the slightest breath.

The release two balconies overlooking the garden and through the
slats of the blinds fall, it looked a little stove with expensive
flowers plants, destined to die in the vases lit a cabinet or chest
of a pretty woman.

Completed the decoration of the walls a few English prints, a portrait of Olózaga in lithography,
with autograph dedication, and a title of honorary colonel in the National Military 54, contained
in rich molding and issued to the father of Peace.

Don Luis came suddenly. - I like punctuality. Come with me, and you will see if there is here for a while.
They went into an adjoining room, completely full of books, where
three new oak shelves empty and occupied so many walls, showing their
huge gaps of clean wood, freshly carved and treated the smell of varnish.

 Sometimes when I sit all
night, around the table, read newspapers or played at whist to distract Don Jose Millan, Leocadia
spying on the corner of my eye, thought to discover in his countenance an expression of indefinable
lively Madrid , a sudden cloud of the pupils, a slight shade of sadness, amid laughter, that
betrayed a desire incomplete or vague aspirations latent impulses of ambition
misunderstood. Doña Manuela and Don José gave the boys for boyfriends
just was no indication for this: Pepe, smarter, guessed that Miller
wanted his sister, but she was not so much in love as he.

III In his early days as a student, almost child, Pepe was not of those guys who sit as close as
possible the teacher, memorizing, such as parrots, as they're told,
before obedience and unthinking application that true love to studies
that do not yet understand, but I had to understand that intelligence
had to come a day when all those subjects and materials, which together
meterle wanted by force blow to the head, should be set somewhere,
and decided to study it, trusting to the perseverance in their future
work and the protection of their own.

During those years, when man ignores the reality of their trends
and the nature of what they should pursue, he doubts and hesitations,
struggling to determine what would be, as if all the good fortune
allowed set the course of his life.

Finally, a love of history and interest, just started to man, was
to follow conversations or reading the progress of political events -
so agitated at the time - made him lean to the law, that career the
age of the people, politics, law and literature, his eyes appeared
to form, not a path more or less wide, but a set of paths that could
lead to lots more prosperous.
 How much is deducted
Poldy said, that the true nobility of the day, are the Europeans, and very strangely the Germans,
because they exercise with the advances and improvements in our century, all the ancient arts of
peace and war, through which identified and ruled the world Assyrians and Babylonians, Medes
and Persians, Egyptians, Phoenicians and Carthaginians, and Greeks and Romans, whose glories all, excellence
and privileges are today, according Poldy, in short, a figure and a compendium, in his illustrious compatriots,
and therefore it too.

In spite of everything, and after making the necessary cuts, Poldy was pleased that it was noble to
his Indian and llanísimo imagined that he was naturalized, hof-fähig without
difficulty, and her from attending the court when they were married. As
in Austria, in addition to the German nobility, Czech, Polish, Hungarian,
Romanian, Croatian, Serbian, Dalmatian, etc.., there is of Irish,
French, Spanish and Italian, of course is that it could have also
Brahmanic and chatriesco home.

Another thing, something that angered Poldy, was the presence at the picture of those three so scantily
clad dancing girls and so little modest and restrained in their dances. But it also showed indulgent
Poldy this Indian outrage, and if he apologized, explained and almost
forgave him.

The Indian had dancing girls, and had that broken life of pure oriental, when I was still
lost in the darkness of paganism, but when, thanks to the Jesuit priest, was converted to the
true religion was by secure Poldy amendment and the neglect that had
left their vicious sport.

The only thing in this business was sorry he had not been the Indian his catechumen, because she
had become better than the Jesuit priest, and had not given him at
the baptismal font so ugly a name as that of Isidore. Poldy perhaps
unaware that there had been a saint, archbishop of that name, famous
scientist, who collected and ordered in their books all the knowledge
of his time, and was consistent with what he had heard from an old
princess, her aunt, terrible anti-Semitic, which persisted in asserting
princess's name Isidore was very common among Jews, where repugnant
in such a manner that was tempted to dismiss him as an excellent servant
named Isidoro, and just resigned himself to keep him in his service
Filidoro forced to call on.

In addition, Poldy could not be more happy or more satisfied. The Isthmus of Suez, had just opened
and already sensed Poldy through the channel, saving the Strait of
Bab-el-Mandeb, and browsing the Eritrean Sea, heading towards India,
to visit the villas, gardens and palaces of young husband.

 Of law is not spoke again to continue the race was a dream, and yet, having had to give it
was the sorrow of the whole family. Everyone felt it his way: Dona Manuela :--«¡ not say but my
son, how it works! "The father did not attempt to confess also before people voices: -" He'll
be in print. "Leocadia undisguised disgust at what his brother was a worker, spoke of the destination
or use, and when he saw him return home, he instinctively looked at his hands, afraid to
bring them a sign of his honorable dirty work. No I could not: that
vanity was in Madrid that aims to cover with silk frills lack of
linen, and prefers the adornment of the hall to the care of the bedroom.

 It was Miss portrait, that of the pink pen. He wore a homemade
dress simple white short ornaments orphan whose sleeves discovered arms:
the neck showed vented and free, the damp hair at the temples, and
the complexion something on, and hit by the cool water. The figure
is clearly highlighted by the dark curtain, drawing resembling fantastic
character.

Sorpendida to see that Don Luis was not alone, he paused a moment and hold the handle the door, hesitating
to move forward or back. - Nuisance - No, daughter, enters. Pepe, who was preparing to leave, the
greeting she answered him, and took from the table a newspaper and
began to read.



