"You wanted to be cleared," the latter said. "You wanted to befool me again. You come here
in some infernally cunning fashion, you steal my picture from the frame and have the matchless
audacity to pass it off for a second one. Man alive, if it were earlier I would have you flogged
from the house like the ungrateful dog that you are."

Chris checked down the cry that rose to her lips. She saw, as in a flash of lightning, the
brilliancy and simplicity and cunning of Henson's latest and most masterly scheme.

CHAPTER XXXIII

THE FRAME OF THE PICTURE

After the first passionate outburst of scorn Lord Littimer looked at his visitor quietly. There
was something almost amusing in the idea that Bell should attempt such a trick upon him. And
the listener was thoroughly enjoying the scene now. There was quite an element of the farcical
about it. In the brilliant light she could see Littimer's dark, bitter face and the helpless
amazement on the strong features of Hatherly Bell. And, meanwhile, the man who had brought
the impossible situation about was calmly sleeping after his strenuous exertions.

Chris smiled to herself as she thought out her brilliant coup. It looked to her nothing less
than a stroke of genius, two strokes, in fact, as will be seen presently. Before many hours
were over Henson's position in the house would be seriously weakened. He had done a clever
thing, but Chris saw her way to a cleverer one still.

Meanwhile the two men were regarding one another suspiciously. On a round Chippendale table
the offending Rembrandt lay between them.

"I confess," Bell said, at length, "I confess that I am utterly taken by surprise. And yet
I need not be so astonished when I come to think of the amazing cunning and audacity of my
antagonist. He has more foresight than myself. Lord Littimer, will you be so kind as to repeat
your last observation over again?"

"I will emphasize it, if you like?" Littimer replied. "For some deep purpose of your own, you
desired to make friends with me again. You tell me you are in a position to clear your character.
Very foolishly I consent to see you. You come here with a roll of paper in your possession
purporting to be a second copy of my famous print. All the time you knew it to be mine--mine,
stolen an hour or two ago and passed instantly to you. Could audacity go farther? And then
you ask me to believe that you came down from town with a second engraving in your possession."

"As I hope to be saved, I swear it!" Bell cried.

"Of course you do. A man with your temerity would swear anything. Credulous as I may be, I
am not credulous enough to believe that my picture would be stolen again at the very time that
you found yours."

"Abstracted by my enemy on purpose to land me in this mess."

"Ridiculous," Littimer cried. "Pshaw, I am a fool to stand here arguing; I am a fool to let
you stay in the house. Why, I don't believe you could bring a solitary witness to prove that
yonder picture was yours."

"You are mistaken, my lord. I could bring several."

"Credible witnesses? Witnesses whose characters would bear investigation?"

"I fancy so," Bell said, quietly. "Two nights ago, for instance, I showed the very picture
lying before you to a lady of your acquaintance, Miss Enid Henson. I couldn't have had your
picture two nights ago, could I? And Miss Henson was graciously pleased to observe that I had
been made the victim of a vile conspiracy."

"Why do you insult me by mentioning that name?" Littimer said, hoarsely. His face was very
pale, and sombre anger smouldered in his eyes. "Tell me you showed the thing to my wife next."

"I did," said Bell, coolly. "Lady Littimer was in the room at the time."

Something like a groan escaped from Littimer's pallid lips. The smouldering light in his eyes
flashed into flame. He advanced upon Bell with a quivering, uplifted arm. Chris slipped swiftly
out of the shade and stood between the two men.

"Dr. Bell speaks the truth," she said. "And I am going to prove it."

Littimer dropped into a chair and gave way to silent laughter. His mood had changed utterly.
He lounged there, a cynical, amused man of the world again.

"Upon my word, I am vastly obliged to you for your comedy," he said. "I hope your salary as
leading lady in Bell's company is a handsome one, Miss Lee."

"Let us hope that it is more handsome than your manners, my lord," Chris said, tartly. "I beg
to remark that I have never seen Dr. Bell before. Oh, yes, I have been listening to your conversation,
because I expected something of the kind. The Rembrandt was stolen some time before Dr. Bell
arrived here, and in due course I shall show you the thief. Lord Littimer, I implore you to
be silent and discreet in this matter. Have a little patience. Quite by accident I have made
an important discovery, but this is hardly the place to discuss it. Before daylight I hope
to be able to prove beyond question that you have greatly wronged Dr. Bell."

"I shall be glad to be convinced of it," Littimer said, sincerely. "But why this secrecy?"

"Secrecy is absolutely necessary for the conviction of the thief."

Bell looked eagerly at the speaker.

"I have not the remotest notion who this young lady is," he said, "but I am greatly obliged
to her."

"My secretary, Miss Lee," Littimer murmured; "an American from Boston, and evidently a great
deal cleverer than I gave her credit for, which is saying a great deal. Miss Lee, if you know
anything, I implore you to speak."

"Not here," Chris said, firmly. "Stone walls have ears. I tell you the Rembrandt was stolen
just before Dr. Bell reached the house. Also I tell you it is imperative that nobody but ourselves
must know the fact for the present. You trust me, Lord Littimer?"

"I trust you as implicitly as I do anybody."

Chris smiled at the diplomatic response. She approached the panel of the wall on which the
Rembrandt had been fastened. She indicated the long steel stays which had been clamped on to
the iron frame. "Look at them," she said. "It was my suggestion that the stays should be attached
to the frame to prevent anything like this robbery. I made the stays secure myself. And what
happened to justify my prudence? Why, the very same night somebody came here after the picture."

"Henson!" Littimer cried. "Ah! But he could have come openly."

"It is not in the nature of the man to do things openly," Chris went on. "I know more about
the man than you imagine, but that you are to keep to yourself. He comes here in the dead of
the night and he gets into the house through an upstair window. A man of his bulk, if you please!
And he comes here hot-foot and breathless at a time when common prudence should have kept him
in bed. Why? Because he knows that Dr. Bell has the other Rembrandt and will come to prove
it, and because he knows that if he can steal the Littimer Rembrandt he can precipitate the
very impasse that he has brought about. But he could not steal the picture because it was fast."

"You are a very clever young lady," Littimer said, drily. "You will tell me next that you expected
Henson to try this thing on."

"I did," Chris said, coolly. "I had a telegram to warn me so."

Littimer smiled. All this mystery and cleverness was after his own heart. He lighted his cigarette
and tendered his case in the friendliest possible manner to Bell.

"Go on," he said, "I am deeply interested."

"I prefer not to go into details," Chris resumed. "All I ask you to do is to be entirely guided
by me when you have heard my story. I have admitted to you that I knew when Henson was coming,
and why am I interested? Because it happens that Reginald Henson has greatly injured someone
I cared for deeply. Well, I fastened up the picture--he came. He sneaked in like the thief
that he was because his accomplice and tool had failed to save him the trouble. Lord Littimer,
I will not pain you by saying who Henson's accomplice was."

Littimer nodded gloomily.

"Not that I blame that accomplice; he could not help himself. Ah, when the whole truth comes
to be told, what a black business it will be. Well, Henson came to steal the picture and I
caught him in the act. If you had seen his fat, greasy, crestfallen face! Then he pretended
that it was all done for a jest and as a warning to Lord Littimer. And Lord Littimer, the most
cynical of men, allowed it to pass."

"I couldn't see what he had to gain," Littimer pleaded. "I don't now, as a matter of fact."

"Neither will you for the present," said Chris. "Still, you will be so good as to assume the
same hospitality and courtesy towards Henson as you extend at present."

"I daresay I can manage it," said Littimer, cynically. "I used to be a society man once."

"Henson did not deceive me for a moment," Chris went on. "He was bound to have the picture,
and, being baffled one way, he tried another. Look here, Lord Littimer. Let me assume for a
moment that Dr. Bell came down here to steal your picture, get rid of the frame, and palm off
your own engraving for another. Now, in the name of common sense, let me ask you a single question.
Could Dr. Bell have possibly known that the frame of the Rembrandt was securely fastened to
the wall and that I had attached it quite recently? And could he in the short time at his disposal
have procured the necessary tools to cut away the stays? Again, Dr. Bell can prove, I suppose,
exactly what time he left London to-day. No, we must look farther for the thief."

"There is something else also we have to look for," said Dr. Bell. "And that is the frame.
You say it was of iron and consequently heavy. The thief would discard the frame and roll up
the print."

"That is a brilliant suggestion," said Chris, eagerly. "And if we only had the frame I could
set Lord Littimer's doubts to rest entirely. I happen to know that the real thief came and
went by the cliff under the terrace. If the frame was thrown into the gorse, there it--"

"Might stay for ages," Littimer exclaimed. "By Jove, I'm just in the mood to carry this business
a stage or two farther before I go to bed. Bell, there are two or three cycle lamps in the
gun-room. You used to be a pretty fearless climber. What do you say to a hunt round for an
hour or two whilst the house is quiet?"

Bell assented eagerly. Chris waited with what patience she could command till daylight began
to show faintly and redly in the east. Then she heard the sound of voices outside, and Littimer
and Bell staggered in carrying the frame between them.

"Got it," Littimer exclaimed, with the triumphant exultation of a schoolboy who has successfully
looted a rare bird's-nest. "We found it half-way down the cliff, hidden behind a patch of samphire.
And it doesn't seem to be any the worse for the adventure. Now, Miss Wiseacre, seeing that
we have the frame, perhaps you will fulfil your promise of convincing me, once and for all,
that yonder Rembrandt cannot possibly belong to me."

"I am going to do so," Chris said, quietly. "You told me you had to cut the margin of your
print by an inch or so round to fit that quaint old frame. So far as I can see, the print before
you is quite intact. Now, if it is too large for the frame--"

Littimer nodded eagerly. Bell fitted the dingy paper to the back of the frame and smiled. There
was an inch or more to spare all round. Nobody spoke for a moment.

"You could make it smaller, but you couldn't make it bigger," Littimer said. "Bell, when I
have sufficiently recovered I'll make a humble and abject apology to you. And now, wise woman
from the West, what is the next act in the play?"

CHAPTER XXXIV

THE PUZZLING OF HENSON

Chris smiled with the air of one who is perfectly satisfied with her work.

"For the present I fancy we have done enough," she said. "I want to go to bed now, and I want
you both to do the same. Also I shall be glad if you will come down in the morning as if nothing
had happened. Tell Reginald Henson casually that you have been convinced that you have done
Dr. Bell a grave injustice, and give no kind of particulars. And please treat Mr. Henson in
the same fashion as before. There is only one other thing."

"Name it, and it is yours," Littimer cried.

"Well, cut the margin off that print, or at any rate turn the margin down, fit it into the
frame, and hang it up as if nothing had happened."

Littimer looked at Chris with a puzzled expression for a moment, and then his features relaxed
into a satyr-like grin.

"Capital," he said, "I quite understand what you mean. And I must be there to see it, eh?--yes,
I must be there to see. I would not miss it for strawberry leaves."

The thing was done and the picture restored to its place. Bell drew Chris aside for a moment.

"Do you rise early in the morning?" he asked, meaningly.

"Always," Chris replied, demurely. "I find the terrace charming before breakfast. Good-night."

Bell was down betimes despite the fact that it had been daylight before he was in bed. Along
the terrace, looking over the cliffs, Chris was already walking, a great cluster of red and
yellow roses in her hand. She looked as fresh and bright as if she and excitement were strangers.
All the same she seemed to avoid Bell's eyes.

"Isn't it lovely here?" she exclaimed. "And these roses with the dew still upon them. Well,
Dr. Bell, have you made fresh discoveries?"

"I have discovered that Henson is going to take his breakfast in bed," Bell said gravely. "Also
that he requires a valet at half-past ten. At that time I hope to be in the corridor with Lord
Littimer and yourself. Also I have made a further discovery."

"And what is that, Dr. Bell?"

"That you and I have met before--once before when I attended you in a kind of official capacity,
and when I behaved in a distinctly discreditable professional manner. Dr. Walker was present.
Dr. Walker seems to have been singularly short-sighted."

The roses fell from Chris's hands on to the path. Her face had grown very pale indeed; there
was a frightened, appealing look in her eyes.

"Dr. Bell," she gasped, "do you suppose that anybody else knows--Henson, for instance? And
I imagined that I had utterly deceived him!"

Bell smiled meaningly.

"I don't think you need have the slightest anxiety on that score," he said. "You see, Henson
is comfortably assured that you are dead and buried. Whereas I know all about it. Fortunately
for me, I became mixed up in this strange business on behalf of my friend, David Steel; indeed,
but for Steel, I should probably have given you away to our friend Walker."

"But surely you guessed that--"

"Not for the moment. You see, it was only a few minutes before that a flood of interesting
light had been let in upon Henson's character by your sister to me, and my first idea was that
Henson was poisoning you for some purpose of his own. Subsequently Steel told me all about
that side of the story on our way back to Brighton."

"How did you penetrate my disguise?"

"My dear young lady, I have not penetrated your disguise. Your disguise is perfect--so quaint
and daringly original--and would deceive even Henson's eyes. I guessed who you were directly
I found that you were taking a philanthropic interest in our friend. It came to me by a kind
of intuition, the knack that stood me in such good stead in my professional days. When you
said that you had been warned of Henson's coming by telegram I was certain."

"Then perhaps you guessed that Enid sent me the telegram?"

"That was obvious. Also it was obvious that Henson brought Frank Littimer along."

"Oh, he did. It was Frank's mission to steal the picture. I confronted him with a revolver
and locked him in one of the bedrooms. It took all my courage and good resolutions to prevent
me from betraying myself to the poor fellow."

"Rather cruel of you, wasn't it?"

"Well, yes. But I wanted to make the exposure as complete as possible. When the time comes
to strip Reginald Henson of his pretentions and flog him from the family, the more evidence
we can pile up the better. But Frank is not bad; he is merely weak and utterly in the power
of that man. If we can only break the bonds, Frank will be a powerful factor on our side."

"I daresay. But how was the Rembrandt stolen? Littimer's, I mean."

"It was worked through an accomplice," Chris explained. "It had to be done before you arrived.
And there was no better time than night for the operation. I guessed that when Henson drew
the fact from me that I liked the terrace after dinner. By a bit of good luck I found the accomplice
and himself together in the day; in fact, I forced Reginald's hand so that he had to introduce
me to the man."

"In which case you would know him again?"

"Of course. Presently I am going to show you a little more of the comedy. Well, I was on the
terrace pretty late when I heard dear Reginald down the cliff calling for assistance. He pretended
that he had slipped down the cliff and could not get up again. By the aid of a rope that fortunately
happened to be close at hand I saved our dear friend's life. I have learnt from one of the
gardeners just now that Reginald placed the rope there himself--a most effective touch, you
must admit."

"Very," Bell said, drily. "But I quite fail to see why--"

"I am coming to that. Don't you see that if anything happened Reginald could prove that he
was not near the house at the time? But just before that I saw his accomplice come up the cliff;
indeed, he passed quite close to me on his way to the house. Reginald quite overlooked this
fact in his heed for his own safety. When I had effected my gallant rescue I heard an owl hoot.
Now, there are no owls about here.

"I guessed what that meant--it was a signal of success. Then I went back to the corridor and
the Rembrandt was gone. The stays had been cut away. At first I was dreadfully upset, but the
more I thought of it the more sure I was that it was all for the best."

"But you might have raised an alarm and caught the thief, who--"

"Who would have been promptly disclaimed by Reginald. Let me tell you, sir, that I have the
thief and the lost Rembrandt in the hollow of my hands. Before the day is out I shall make
good my boast. And there's the breakfast bell."

It looked quite natural some time later for the three conspirators to be lounging about the
gallery when Henson emerged from his bedroom. He appeared bright and smiling, and most of the
bandages had been removed from his throat. All the same he was not pleased to see Bell there;
he gazed uneasily at the doctor and from him to Littimer.

"You know Bell," the latter said, carelessly. "Fact is, there's been a great mistake."

Bell offered him his hand heartily. It cost him a huge effort, but the slimy scoundrel had
to be fought with his own weapons. Henson shook his head with the air of a man extending a
large and generous meed of forgiveness. He sought in vain to read Bell's eyes, but there was
a steady, almost boyish, smile in them.

"I indeed rejoice," he said, unctuously. "I indeed rejoice--rejoice--rejoice!"

He repeated the last word helplessly; he seemed to have lost all his backbone, and lapsed into
a flabby, jellified mass of quivering white humanity. His vacant, fishy eyes were fixed upon
the Rembrandt in a kind of dull, sleepy terror.

"I'm not well," he gasped. "Not so strong as I imagined. I'll--I'll go and lie down again.
Later on I shall want a dogcart to drive me to Moreton Wells. I--"

He paused again, glanced at the picture, and passed heavily to his room. Littimer smiled.

"Splendid," he said. "It was worth thousands just to see his face."

"All the same," Chris said, quietly; "all the same, that man is not to leave for Moreton Wells
till I've had a clear hour's start of him. Dr. Bell will you accompany me?"

CHAPTER XXXV

CHRIS HAS AN IDEA

Lord Littimer polished his rarely used eye-glass carefully and favoured Chris with a long,
admiring stare. At the same time he was wondering why the girl should have taken such a vivid
interest in Reginald Henson and his doings. For some years past it had been Littimer's whim
to hold up Henson before everybody as his successor, so far as the castle went. He liked to
see Henson's modest smirk and beautiful self-abasement, for in sooth his lordship had a pretty
contempt for the man who hoped to succeed him. But the will made some time ago by Littimer
would have come as a painful shock to the philanthropist.

"It is a very pretty tangle as it stands," he said. "Miss Lee, let me compliment you upon your
astuteness in this matter. Only don't tell me you schemed your way here, and that you are a
lady detective. I read a good many novels, and I don't like them."

"You may be easy on that score," Chris laughed. "I am not a lady detective. All the same, I
have defeated Mr. Reginald Henson."

"You think he is at the bottom of the mystery of the other Rembrandt."

"I am certain of it; unless you like to believe in the truth of his charming scheme to give
you a lesson, as he called it. As a matter of fact, Mr. Henson discovered the existence of
the other print; he discovered that Dr. Bell possessed it--the rest I leave to your own astuteness.
You saw his face just now?"

"Oh, yes. It was a fine study in emotions. If you could find the other picture--"

"I hope to restore it to you before the day has passed."

Littimer applauded, gently. He was charmed, he said, with the whole comedy. The first two acts
had been a brilliant success. If the third was only as good he would regard Miss Lee as his
benefactor for ever. It was not often that anybody intellectually amused him; in fact, he must
add Miss Lee to his collection.

"Then you must play a part yourself," Chris said, gaily. "I am going into Moreton Wells, and
Dr. Bell accompanies me. Mr. Henson is not to know that we have gone, and he is not to leave
the house for a good hour or so after our departure. What I want is a fair start and the privilege
of bringing a guest home to dinner."

"Vague, mysterious, and alluring," Littimer said. "Bring the guest by all means. I will pledge
my diplomacy that you have a long start. Really, I don't know when I have enjoyed myself so
much. You shall have the big waggonette for your journey."

"And join it beyond the lodge-gates," Chris said, thoughtfully. "Dr. Bell, you shall stroll
through the park casually; I will follow as casually later on."

A little later Henson emerged from his room dressed evidently for a journey. He looked flabby
and worried; there was an expression very like fear in his eyes. The corridor was deserted
as he passed the place where the Rembrandt hung. He paused before the picture in a hesitating,
fascinated way. His feet seemed to pull up before it involuntarily.

"What does it mean?" he muttered. "What in the name of fate has happened? It is impossible
that Merritt could have played me a trick like that; he would never have dared. Besides, he
has too much to gain by following my instructions. I fancy--"

Henson slipped up to the picture as a sudden idea came to him. If the picture had not been
removed at all the stays would still be intact. And if they were intact Merritt was likely
to have a bad quarter of an hour later on. It would be proof that--

But the stays were not intact. The heads had been shaved off with some cutting instrument;
the half of the stays gleamed like silver in the morning light. And yet the Rembrandt was there.
The more Henson dwelt upon it the more he was puzzled. He began to wonder whether some deep
trap was being laid for him.

But, no, he had seen no signs of it. In some way or another Bell had managed to ingratiate
himself with Littimer again, but not necessarily for long, Henson told himself, with a vicious
grin. Nor was Littimer the kind of man who ever troubled himself to restrain his feelings.
If he had got to the bottom of the whole business he would have had Henson kicked out of the
house without delay.

But Littimer suspected nothing. His greeting just now showed that Bell suspected nothing, because
he had shaken hands in the heartiest manner possible. And as for Miss Lee, she was no more
than a smart Yankee girl, and absolutely an outsider.

Still, it was dreadfully puzzling. And it was not nice to be puzzled at a time when the arch-conspirator
ought to know every move of the game. Therefore it became necessary to go into Moreton Wells
and see Merritt without delay. As Henson crossed the hall the cheerful voice of Littimer hailed
him.

"Reginald," he cried, "I want your assistance and advice."

With a muttered curse Henson entered the library. Littimer was seated at a table, with a cigarette
in his mouth, his brows drawn over a mass of papers.

"Sit down and have a cigar," he said. "The fact is I am setting my affairs in order--I am going
to make a fresh will. If you hadn't come down last night I should probably have sent for you.
Now take my bank-book and check those figures."

"Shall we be long?" Henson asked, anxiously.

Littimer tartly hoped that Henson could-spare him an hour. It was not usual, he said, for a
testator to be refused assistance from the chief benefactor under his will. Henson apologized,
with a sickly smile. He had important business of a philanthropic kind in Moreton Wells, but
he had no doubt that it could wait for an hour. And then for the best part of the morning he
sat fuming politely, whilst Littimer chattered in the most amiable fashion. Henson had rarely
seen him in a better mood. It was quite obvious that he suspected nothing. Meanwhile Chris
and Bell were bowling along towards Moreton Wells. They sat well back in the roomy waggonette,
so that the servants could not hear them. Chris regarded Bell with a brilliant smile on her face.

"Confess," she said, "confess that you are consumed with curiosity."

"It would be just as well to acknowledge it at once," Bell admitted. "In the happy old days
your sister Enid always said that you were the clever and audacious one of the family. She
said you would do or dare anything."

"I used to imagine so," Chris said, more quietly. "But the life of the last few years tried
one's nerves terribly. Still, the change has done me a deal of good--the change and the knowledge
that Reginald Henson regards me as dead. But you want to know how I am going to get the Rembrandt?"

"That is what is consuming me at present," Bell said.

"Well, we are going to see the man who has it," Chris explained, coolly. "I have his address
in Moreton Wells at the present moment, and for the rest he is called the Rev. James Merritt.
Between ourselves he is no more a reverend than you are."

"And if the gentleman is shy or refuses to see us?"

"Then he will be arrested on a charge of theft."

"My dear young lady, before you can get a warrant for that kind of thing you have to prove
the theft, you have to swear an information to the effect that you believe the property is
in the possession of the thief, and that is not easy."

"There is nothing easier. I am prepared to swear that cheerfully."

"That you actually know that the property is in the possession of the thief?"

"Certainly I do. I saw him put it in his pocket."

Bell looked at the speaker with blank surprise. If such was the fact, then Chris's present
statement was exactly opposed to all that she had said before. She sat opposite to Bell, with
a little gleam of mischief in her lovely eyes.

"You saw that man steal the Rembrandt?" Bell gasped.

"Certainly not. But I did see him steal my big diamond star and put it in his pocket. And I
can swear an information on that."

"I see that you have something interesting to tell me," Bell said.

"Oh, indeed, I have. We will hark back now to the night before last, when Reginald Henson made
his personal attempt to obtain the Rembrandt and then played the trick upon you that was so
very near to being a brilliant success."

"It would have been but for you," Bell murmured.

"Well, really, I am inclined to think so. And perhaps Lord Littimer would have given you in
custody on a second charge of theft. If he had done so it would have gone hard with you to
prove your innocence. But I am wandering from the point. Henson failed. But he was going to
try again. I watched him carefully yesterday and managed to see his letters and telegrams.
Then I found that he had telegraphed to James Merritt, whose address in Moreton Wells I carefully
noted down. It did not require much intellect to grasp the fact that this Merritt was to be
the accomplice in the new effort to steal the picture, Mr. Merritt came over and saw his chief,
with whom he had a long conversation in the grounds. I also forced myself on Mr. Merritt's notice.

"He was introduced to me as a brand plucked from the burning, a converted thief who had taken
orders of some kind. He is a sorry-looking scoundrel, and I took particular note of him, especially
the horrible smashed thumb."

"The what!" Bell exclaimed. "A thumb like a snake's head with a little pink nail on it?"

"The same man. So you happen to have met him?"

"We met on our way here," Bell said, drily. "The rascal sent the dogcart away from the station
so that I should have to walk home, and he attacked me in the road. But I half-expected something
of the kind, and I was ready for him. And he was the man with the thumb. I should have told
you all this before, but I had forgotten it in watching your fascinating diplomacy. When the
attack was defeated the rascal bolted in the direction of the cliffs. Of course, he was off
to tell Henson of the failure of the scheme and to go on with the plot for getting the other
picture. If he had stolen my Rembrandt then the other would have remained. I couldn't have
turned up with a cock-and-bull story of having started with the picture and being robbed of
it by a total stranger in the road ... But I am interrupting you."

"Well, I marked that thumb carefully. I have already told you that the thief passed me on his
way to the house when he came up the cliff. I was leaning over the terrace when I saw him emerge
into a band of light caused by the big arc in the castle tower. I forgot that I was in deep
shadow and that he could not possibly see me. I jerked my head back suddenly, and my diamond
star fell out and dropped almost at the feet of the intruder. Then he saw it, chuckled over
it--placed it in his pocket. I was going to call out, but I didn't. I had a sudden idea, Dr.
Bell--I had an idea that almost amounted to an inspiration."

Chris paused for a moment and her eyes sparkled. Bell was watching her with the deepest interest
and admiration.

"I let the man keep it," Chris went on, more slowly, "with an eye to the future. The man had
stolen the thing and I was in a position to prove it. He would be pretty sure to pawn the star--he
probably has done so by this time, and therefore we have him in our power. We have only to
discover where the diamonds have been 'planted'--is that the correct expression?--I can swear
an information, and the police will subsequently search the fellow's lodgings. When the search
is made the missing Rembrandt will be found there. Mr. Merritt would hardly dare to pawn that."

"Even if he knew its real value, which I doubt," Bell said, thoughtfully. "Henson would not
tell his tool too much. Let me congratulate you upon your idea, Miss Chris. That diamond star
of yours is a powerful factor in our hands, and you always have the consciousness of knowing
that you can get it back again. Now, what are we going to do next?"

"Going to call upon Mr. Merritt, of course," Chris said, promptly. "You forget that I have
his address. I am deeply interested in the welfare of the criminal classes, and you are also
an enthusiast. I've looked up the names of one or two people in the directory who go in for
that kind of thing, and I'm going to get up a bazaar at Littimer Castle for the benefit of
the predatory classes who have turned over a new leaf. I am particularly anxious for Mr. Merritt
to give us an address. Don't you think that will do?"

"I should think it would do very well indeed," Bell said.

The quaint and somewhat exclusive town of Moreton Wells was reached in due course and the street
where the Rev. James Merritt resided located at length. It was a modest two-storeyed tenement,
and the occupier of the rooms was at home. Chris pushed her way gaily in, followed by Bell,
before the occupant could lay down the foul clay pipe he was smoking and button the unaccustomed
stiff white collar round his throat. Merritt whipped a tumbler under the table with amazing
celerity, but no cunning of his could remove the smell of gin that hung pungently on the murky
atmosphere.

Merritt dodged his head back defiantly as if half expecting a blow. His eyes were strained
a little anxiously over Bell's shoulder as if fearful of a shadow. Bell had seen the type before--Merritt
was unconsciously looking for the police.

"I am so glad to find you at home," Chris said, sweetly.

Merritt muttered something that hardly sounded complimentary. It was quite evident that he
was far from returning the compliment. He had recognised Bell, and was wondering fearfully
if the latter was as sure of his identity. Bell's face betrayed nothing. All the same he was
following Merritt's uneasy eye till it rested on a roll of dirty paper on the mantelshelf.
That roll of paper was the missing Rembrandt, and he knew it.

"Won't you offer me a chair?" Chris asked, in the sweetest possible manner.

Merritt sulkily emptied a chair of a pile of cheap sporting papers, and demanded none too politely
what business the lady had with him. Chris proceeded to explain at considerable length. As
Merritt listened his eyes gleamed and a broadening grin spread over his face. He had done a
great deal of that kind of thing, he admitted. Since Henson had taken him up the police had
not been anything like so inquisitive, and his present pose was fruitful of large predatory
gains. The latter fact Merritt kept to himself. On the whole the prospect appealed to his imagination.
Henson wouldn't like it, but, then, Henson was not in a position to say too much.

"I thought perhaps if you came over with us and dined at the castle," Chris suggested. She
spoke slowly and thoughtfully, with her eyes on the ground. "Say to-night. Will you come?"

Merritt grinned extensively once more. The idea of his dining at the castle appealed to his
own peculiar sense of humour. He was at his ease, seeing that Bell failed to recognise him.
To dine at the castle, to note the plate, and get a minute geographical knowledge of the place
from personal observation! ... His mouth watered at the thought.

"They ought to be more careful yonder," he suggested. "There's plate and there's pictures."

"Nothing has ever been stolen from Littimer Castle," Bell said, crisply. He read the leer in
Merritt's eyes as he spoke of pictures. "Nothing whatever."

"What, not lately?" Merritt asked. "Didn't I hear tell of a--"

He paused, conscious of saying too much. Bell shook his head again. An utterly puzzled expression
crept over Mr. Merritt's engaging countenance. At the present moment an art treasure of price
stood in that very room, and here was a party from the castle utterly innocent of the robbery.
Chris glanced at Bell and smiled.

"I love the pictures," she said, "especially the prints. That Rembrandt, 'The Crimson Blind,'
for instance. I found a fresh light in it this morning and called Lord Littimer's attention
to it before we started. I should lock that up if it were mine."

Merritt's eyes fairly bulged as he listened. Had he not half-suspected some deep "plant" he
would have been vastly amused. But then he had got the very picture these people were speaking
about close to hand at the very moment.

"Tell you what," he said, suddenly. "I ain't used to swell society ways, but I'm always ready
to sacrifice myself to the poor fellows who ain't found the straight path like me. And if you
gets up your bazaar, I'll do what I can to 'elp."

"Then you will dine with us to-night?" Chris asked, eagerly. "Don't say no, I met a man once
with a past like yours at Lady Roslingham's, and he was so interesting. We will call for you
in an hour's time with the waggonette. Then we can settle half our plans before dinner."

Merritt was graciously pleased to be agreeable. Moreover, he was utterly puzzled and absolutely
consumed with an overpowering curiosity. It seemed also to him to be a sheer waste of providence
to discard such an offer. And the plate at Littimer Castle was superb!

Meanwhile Chris and Bell walked down the street together. "He was puzzled over the Rembrandt,"
Chris said. "Seeing that he has our picture--"

"No doubt about it. The picture was rolled up and stood on the mantelshelf. I followed Merritt's
gaze, knowing perfectly well that it would rest presently on the picture if it was in the room.
At the same time, our interesting friend, in chuckling over the way he has deceived us, clean
forgot the yellow pawnticket lying on the table."

"Dr. Bell, do you mean to say that--"

"That I know where your diamond star was pledged. Indeed I do. Merritt had probably just turned
out his pockets as we entered. The pawnticket was on the table and related to a diamond aigrette
pawned by one James Merritt--mark the simple cunning of the man--with Messrs. Rutter and Co.,
117, High Street. That in itself is an exceedingly valuable discovery, and one we can afford
to keep to ourselves for the present. At the same time I should very much like to know what
Rutter and Co. are like. Let me go down to the shop and make some simple purchase."

Rutter and Co. proved to be a very high-class shop indeed, despite the fact that there was
a pawnbroking branch of the business. The place was quite worthy of Bond Street, the stock
was brilliant and substantial, the assistants quite above provincial class. As Bell was turning
over some sleeve-links, Chris was examining a case of silver and gold cigarette-cases and the
like. She picked up a cigar-case at length and asked the price. At the mention of fifty guineas
she dropped the trifle with a little moue of surprise.

"It looks as if it had been used," she said.

"It is not absolutely new, madam," the assistant admitted, "therefore the price is low. But
the gentleman who sold it to us proved that he had only had it for a few days. The doctor had
ordered him not to smoke in future, and so--"

Chris turned away to something else. Bell completed his purchase, and together they left the
shop. Once outside Chris gripped her companion's arm excitedly.

"Another great discovery," she said. "Did you see me looking at that cigar-case--a gun-metal
one set with diamonds? You recollect that Ruth Gates purchased a case like that for that--that
foolishness we thought of in connection with Mr. Steel. The case had a little arrow shaped
scratch with the head of the arrow formed of the biggest diamond. Enid told me all this the
night before I left Longdean Grange. Dr. Bell, I am absolutely certain that I have had in my
hand just now the very case bought by Ruth from Lockhart's in Brighton!"

CHAPTER XXXVI

A BRILLIANT IDEA

Bell was considerably impressed with the importance of Chris's discovery, though at the same
time he was not disposed to regard it in the light of a coincidence.

"It's a useful discovery in its way," he said; "but not very remarkable when you come to think
of it. Somebody with an eye to damaging Steel changed that cigar-case. How the change affected
Steel you know as well as I do. But the cigar-case purchased by Ruth Gates must be somewhere,
and we are as likely to find it near Reginald Henson as anywhere else, seeing that he is at
the bottom of the whole business. That change was made either by himself or by somebody at
his instigation. Once the change was made he would not bother about the spare cigar-case. His
ally probably came here to see Henson; the latter as likely as not threw him over, knowing
that the fellow would not dare to talk; hence the thing is turned into money. I am merely speculating,
of course, under the assumption that you are quite sure of your facts."

"Absolutely," Chris cried, eagerly. "Two long, irregular scratches leading up in arrow-headed
shape to the big diamond in the centre. Ruth told Enid all about that the very last time they
discussed the matter together."

"How came Ruth Gates to remember it so clearly?"

"Well, she did it herself. She was rubbing some specks off the case at the last moment, and
the scratches were made accidentally with the stones in one of her rings."

Bell was fain to admit that the discovery was an important one. "We'll leave it for the present,"
he said. "In a small place like this so valuable an article is likely to remain in stock for
some time. I'll call in again to-morrow on the pretence of getting further goods and obtain
all the information there is to be gained as to who sold the case and what he was like. There
is just time for a little lunch before we take up our reverend friend. Where shall we go?"

Chris would like to see the Lion. There was a marvellous coffee-room there with panelled walls
and a ceiling by Pugin, and an Ingle-nook filled with rare Dutch tiles. They had the beautiful
old place to themselves, so that they could talk freely. Chris crumbled her bread and sipped
her soup with an air of deep abstraction.

"A great idea is forming itself in my mind," she said.

"What, another one?" Bell smiled. "Is it the air of the place or what? Really, there is a brilliancy
about you that is striking."

Chris laughed. She was full of the joy of life to-day.

"It is the freedom," she said. "If you only knew what it is to feel free after the dull, aching,
monotonous misery of the last few years. To be constantly on the treadmill, to be in the grasp
of a pitiless scoundrel. At first you fight against it passionately, with a longing to be doing
something, and gradually you give way to despair. And now the weight is off my shoulders, and
I am free to act. Fancy the reward of finding Reginald Henson out!"

"Reginald Henson is the blight upon your house. In what way?"

"Ah, I cannot tell you. It is a secret that we never discuss even among ourselves. But he has
the power over us, he has blighted all our lives. But if I could get hold of a certain thing
the power would be broken. That is what I am after, what I am working for. And it is in connection
with my endeavour that the new idea came to me."

"Can't you give me some general idea of it?" Bell asked.

"Well, I want to make Merritt my friend. I want him to imagine that I am as much of an adventuress
as he is an adventurer. I want to let him see that I could send him to prison--"

"So you can by telling the police of the loss of your star."

"And getting Merritt arrested and sent to gaol where I couldn't make use of him? No, no. The
thing is pretty vague in my mind at present. I have to work it out as one would a story; as
David Steel would work it out, for instance. Ah!"

Chris clapped her hands rapturously, and a little cry of delight escaped her.

"The very thing," she exclaimed. "If I could lay all the facts before Mr. Steel and get him
to plan out all the details! His fertile imagination would see a way out at once. But he is
far away and there is no time to be lost. Is there no way of getting at him?"

Chris appealed almost imploringly to her companion. She made a pretty picture with the old
oak engravings behind her. Bell smiled as he helped himself to asparagus.

"Why not adopt the same method by which you originally introduced yourself to the distinguished
novelist?" he asked. "Why not use Littimer's telephone?"

Chris pushed her plate away impetuously.

"I am too excited to eat any more," she said. "I am filled with the new idea. Of course, I
could use the telephone to speak to Mr. Steel, and to Enid as well. If the scheme works out
as I anticipate, I shall have to hold a long conversation with Enid, a dangerous thing so long
as Reginald Henson is about."

"I'll keep Henson out of the way. The best thing is to wait till everybody has gone to bed
to-night and call Steel up then. You will be certain to get him after eleven, and there will
be no chance of your being cut off at that hour of the night in consequence of somebody else
wanting the line. The same remark applies to your sister."

Chris nodded radiantly.

"Thrice blessed telephone," she said. "I can get in all I want without committing myself to
paper or moving from the spot where my presence is urgently needed. We will give Mr. Steel
a pleasant surprise to-night, and this time I shall get him into no trouble."

The luncheon was finished at length, and an intimation sent to Merritt that his friends were
waiting for him at the Lion. As his powerful figure was seen entering the big Norman porch
Henson came down the street driving a dog-cart at a dangerous rate of speed.

"Our man is going to have his trouble for his pains," Bell chuckled. "He has come to interview
Merritt. How pleased he will be to see Merritt at dinner-time."

Merritt shambled in awkwardly, obviously suppressing a desire to touch his forelock. There
was a sheepish grin on his face, a suppressed triumph in his eyes. He had been recently shaved
and his hair cut, but despite these improvements, and despite his clerical garb, he was not
exactly the class of man to meet in a dark lane after sunset.

Chris, however, showed nothing of this in her greeting. Long before Littimer Castle was reached
she had succeeded in putting Merritt quite at his ease. He talked of himself and his past exploits,
he boasted of his cunning. It was only now and again that he pulled himself up and piously
referred to the new life that he was now leading. Bell was studying him carefully; he read
the other's mind like an open book. When the waggonette finally pulled up before the castle
Littimer strolled up and stood there regarding Merritt quietly.

"So this is the gentleman you were going to bring to dinner?" he said, grimly. "I have seen
him before in the company of our dear Reginald. I also--"

Chris shot Littimer an imploring glance. Merritt grinned in friendly fashion. Bell, in his
tactful way, piloted the strange guest to the library before Littimer and Chris had reached
the hall. The former polished his eyeglass and regarded Chris critically.

"My dear young lady," he said smoothly, "originality is a passion with me, eccentricity draws
me as a magnet; but as yet I have refrained from sitting down to table with ticket-of-leave
men. Your friend has 'convict' writ large upon his face."

"He has been in gaol, of course," Chris admitted, cheerfully.

"Then let me prophesy, and declare that he will be in gaol again. Why bring him here?"

"Because it is absolutely necessary," Chris said, boldly. "That man can help me--help us, Lord
Littimer. I am not altogether what I seem. There is a scoundrel in your house compared with
whom James Merritt is an innocent child. That scoundrel has blighted your life and the lives
of your family; he has blighted my life for years. And I am here to expose him, and I am here
to right the wrong and bring back the lost happiness of us all. I cannot say more, but I implore
you to let me have my own way in this matter."

"Oh!" Littimer said, darkly, "so you are masquerading here?"

"I am. I admit it. Turn me out if you like; refuse to be a party to my scheme. You may think
badly of me now, probably you will think worse of me later on. But I swear to you that I am
acting with the best and purest motives, and in your interest as much as my own."

"Then you are not entitled even to the name you bear?"

"No, I admit it freely. Consider, I need not have told you anything. Things cannot be any worse
than they are. Let me try and make them better. Will you, will you trust me?"

Chris's voice quivered, there were tears in her eyes. With a sudden impulse Littimer laid his
hands upon her shoulders and looked long and searchingly into her eyes.

"Very well," he said, with a gentle sigh. "I will trust you. As a matter of fact, I have felt
that I could trust you from the first. I won't pry into your schemes, because if they are successful
I shall benefit by them. And if you like to bring a cartload of convicts down here, pray do
so. It will only puzzle the neighbours, and drive them mad with curiosity, and I love that."

"And you'll back me up in all I say and do?" Chris asked.

"Certainly I will. On the whole, I fancy I am going to have a pleasant evening. I don't think
dear Reginald will be pleased to see his friend at dinner. If any of the spoons are missing
I shall hold you responsible."

Chris went off to her room well pleased with the turn of events. Brilliant audacity had succeeded
where timid policy might have resulted in dismal failure. And Littimer had refrained from asking
any awkward questions. From the window she could see Bell and Merritt walking up and down the
terrace, the latter talking volubly and worrying at a big cigar as a dog might nuzzle at a
bone. Chris saw Littimer join the other two presently and fall in with their conversation.
His laugh came to the girl's ear more than once. It was quite evident that the eccentric nobleman
was enjoying the ex-convict's society. But Littimer had never been fettered by conventional rules.

The dog-cart came up presently and Henson got out. He had an anxious, worried look; there was
an ugly frown between his brows. He contrived to be polite as Chris emerged. He wanted to know
where Littimer was.

"On the terrace, I fancy," Chris said, demurely. "I guess he is having a long chat with that
parson friend of yours--the brand plucked from the burning, you know."

"Merritt," Henson said, hoarsely. "Do you mean to say that Merritt is here? And I've been looking
for--I mean, I have been into Moreton Wells. Why did he come?"

Chris opened her eyes in innocent surprise.

"Why," she said, "I fetched him. I'm deeply interested in brands of that kind."

CHAPTER XXXVII

ANOTHER TELEPHONIC MESSAGE

Henson forced a smile to his face and a hand from his side as he approached Merritt and the
rest. It was not until the two found themselves alone that the mask was dropped.

"You infernally insolent scoundrel," Henson said, between his teeth. "How dare you come here?
You've done your work for the present, and the sooner you go back to your kennel in London
the better. If I imagined that you meant any harm I'd crush you altogether."

"I didn't come on my own," Merritt whined. "So keep your 'air on. That young lady came and
fetched me--regular gone on me, she is. And there's to be high jinks 'ere--a bazaar for the
benefit of pore criminals as can't get no work to do. You 'eard what his lordship said. And
I'm goin' to make a speech, like as I used to gull the chaplains. Lor', it's funny, ain't it?"

Henson failed to see the humour of the situation. He was uneasy and suspicious. Moreover, he
was puzzled by this American girl, and he hated to be puzzled. She had social aspirations,
of course; she cared nothing for decayed or reformed criminals, and this silly bazaar was only
designed so that the ambitious girl could find her way into the county set. Then she would
choose a husband, and nothing more would be heard of Merritt and Co. Henson had a vague notion
that all American girls are on the look-out for English husbands of the titled order.

"Littimer must be mad," he muttered. "I can't understand Littimer; I can't understand anything.
Which reminds me that I have a crow to pluck with you. Why didn't you do as I told you last night?"

"Did," said Merritt, curtly. "Got the picture and took it home with me."

"You liar! The picture is in the corridor at the present time."

"Liar yourself! I've got the picture on my mantelshelf in my sitting-room rolled up as you
told me to roll it up and tied with a piece of cotton. It was your own idea as the thing was
to be left about casual-like as being less calculated to excite suspicion. And there it is
at the present moment, and I'll take my oath to it."

Henson fairly gasped. He had been inside that said sitting-room not two hours before, and he
had not failed to notice a roll of paper on the mantelshelf. And obviously Merritt was telling
the truth. And equally obviously the Rembrandt was hanging in the corridor at the present moment.
Henson had solved and evolved many ingenious puzzles in his time, but this one was utterly
beyond him.

"Some trick of Dr. Bell's, perhaps," Merritt suggested.

"Bell suspects nothing. He is absolutely friendly to me. He could not disguise his feelings
like that. Upon my word I was never so utterly at sea before in all my life. And as for Littimer,
why, he has just made a fresh will more in my favour than the old one. But I'll find out. I'll
get to the bottom of this business if it costs me a fortune."

He frowned moodily at his boots; he turned the thing over in his mind until his brain was dazed
and muddled. The Rembrandt had been stolen, and yet there was the Rembrandt in its place. Was
anything more amazing and puzzling? And nobody else seemed in the least troubled about it.
Henson was more than puzzled; deep down in his heart he was frightened.

"I must keep my eyes open," he said. "I must watch night and day. Do you suppose Miss Lee noticed
anything when she called to-day?"

"Not a bit of it," said Merritt, confidently "She came to see me; she had no eyes for anybody
but your humble servant. Where did she get my address from? Why, didn't you introduce me to
the lady yourself, and didn't I tell her I was staying at Moreton Wells for a time? I'm goin'
to live in clover for a bit, my pippin. Cigars and champagne, wine and all the rest of it."

"I wish you were at the bottom of the sea before you came here," Henson growled. "You mind
and be careful what you're doing with the champagne. They don't drink by the tumbler in the
society you are in now, remember. Just one or two glasses and no more. If you take too much
and let your tongue run you will find your stay here pretty short."

Apparently the hint was not lost on Merritt, for dinner found him in a chastened mood. His
natural audacity was depressed by the splendour and luxury around him; the moral atmosphere
held him down. There were so many knives and forks and glasses on the table, such a deal of
food that was absolutely strange to him. The butler behind made him shiver. Hitherto in Merritt's
investigations into great houses he had fought particularly shy of butlers and coachmen and
upper servants of that kind. The butler's sniff and his cold suggestion as to hock slightly
raised Merritt's combative spirit. And the champagne was poor, thin stuff after all. A jorum
of gin and water, or a mug of beer, was what Merritt's soul longed for.

And what a lot of plate there was on the table and sideboard! Some of it was gold, too. Merritt's
greedy professional eye appraised the collection at some hundreds of pounds--hundreds of pounds--that
is, after the stuff had been disposed of. In imagination he had already drugged the butler
and was stuffing the plate into his bag.

Henson said very little. He was too busily engaged in watching his confederate. He wished from
the bottom of his heart now that Chris had never seen Merritt. She was smiling at him now and
apparently hanging on every word. Henson had seen society ladies doing this kind of thing before
with well-concealed contempt. So long as people liked to play his game for him he had no objection.
But this was quite different. Merrit had warmed a little under the influence of his fifth glass
of champagne, but his eye looked lovingly and longingly in the direction of a silver spirit-stand
on the sideboard. The dinner came to an end at length, to Henson's great relief, and presently
the whole party wandered out to the terrace. Bell dropped behind with Chris.

"Now is your time," he whispered. "Henson dare not lose sight of Merritt before he goes to
bed, and I'll keep the latter out here for a good long spell. I've muffled the striker of the
telephone so that the bell will make no noise when you get your call back from Brighton, so
that you must be near enough to the instrument to hear the click of the striker. Make haste."

Chris dropped back to the library and rapidly fluttered over the leaves of the "Telephone Directory."
She found what she wanted at length and asked to be put on to Brighton. Then she sat down in
an armchair in the darkness close under the telephone, prepared to wait patiently. She could
just see the men on the terrace, could catch the dull glow red of their cigars.

Her patience was not unduly tried. At the end of a quarter of an hour the striker clicked furiously.
Chris reached for the receiver and lay back comfortably in her chair with the diaphragm to
her ear. "Are you there?" she asked, quietly. "Is that you, Mr. Steel?" To her great relief
the answering voice was Steel's own. He seemed to be a little puzzled as to who his questioner was.

"Can't you guess?" Chris replied. "This is not the first time I have had you called. You have
not forgotten 218, Brunswick Square, yet?"

Chris smiled as she heard Steel's sudden exclamation.

"So you are my fair friend whom I saw in the dark?" he said. "Yes, I recognise your voice now.
You are Miss Chris--well, I won't mention the name aloud, because people might ask what a well-regulated
corpse meant by rousing respectable people up at midnight. I hope you are not going to get
me into trouble again."

"No, but I am going to ask your advice and assistance. I want you to be so good as to give
me the plot of a story after I have told you the details. And you are to scheme the thing out
at once, please, because delay is dangerous. Dr. Bell--"

"What's that? Will you tell me where you are speaking from?"

"I am at present located at Littimer Castle. Yes, Dr. Bell is here. Do you want him?"

"I should think so," Steel exclaimed. "Please tell him at once that the man who was found here
half dead--you know the man I mean--got up and dressed himself in the absence of the nurse
and walked out of the hospital this morning. Since then he has not been seen or heard of. I
have been looking up Bell everywhere. Will you tell him this at once? I'll go into your matter
afterwards. Don't be afraid; I'll tell the telephone people not to cut us off till I ring.
Please go at once."

The voice was urgent, not to say imperative. Chris dropped the receiver into its space and
crept into the darkness in the direction of the terrace.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

A LITTLE FICTION

Bell seemed to know by intuition that Chris required him, or perhaps he caught a glimpse of
her white dress from the terrace. Anyway, he strolled leisurely in her direction.

"Something has happened?" he whispered, as he came up.

"Well, yes," Chris replied, "though I should like to know how you guessed that. I had no difficulty
in getting Mr. Steel on the telephone, but he would say nothing directly he heard that you
were here beyond a peremptory request that you were to be told at once that Van Sneck has gone."

"Gone!" Bell echoed, blankly. "What do you mean by that?"

"He has disappeared from the hospital at Brighton to-day. Mr. Steel thinks they were extra
busy, or something of that kind. Anyway, Van Sneck got up and dressed himself and left the
hospital without being observed. It seems extraordinary to me."

"And yet quite possible," Bell said, thoughtfully. "Van Sneck had practically recovered from
the flesh wounds; it was the injury to his head that was the worst part. He resembled an irresponsible
lunatic more than anything else. Steel wants me, of course?"

"He suggests that you should go down to Brighton without delay."

"All right, I'll make some excuse to take the first train in the morning. We've got a fine
start of Henson, and that's a good thing. If Van Sneck comes within his net we shall have a
deal of trouble. I had hoped to get permission to operate on Van Sneck, and relied upon him
to solve the mystery. And now you had better go back to your telephone."

Chris hurried back again. A whispered word satisfied her that Steel was still at the other end.

"Dr. Bell starts as early as possible to-morrow," she said. "If you will listen carefully I
will give you a brief outline of all that has happened since I have been here."

Chris proceeded to tell her story succinctly and briefly. From little sounds and signs she
could tell that Steel was greatly interested. The story of the man with the thumb fascinated
him. It appealed to his professional instincts.

"And what do you want to do with him?" Steel asked.

"Well, you see, I have him in my power," Chris explained. "We can get the other Rembrandt any
time we like now, but that is quite a minor consideration. What I want is for Merritt to know
that I can have him arrested at any time for stealing my star. It's Enid's star, as a matter
of fact; but that is a detail."

"An important one, surely," Steel's voice came thin and clear. "Suppose that our dear friend
chances to recognise it? ... No, don't ring off yet."

"I'm not. Oh, you are speaking to the Exchange people ... Yes, yes; we shall be a long time
yet ... Are you there? Well, Henson has never seen the star. Enid bought it just before the
great trouble came, and afterwards she never had the heart to wear it."

"I understand. You want Merritt to know this?"

"Well, I do and I don't," Chris explained. "I am anxious not to frighten the man. I want to
get him in my power, and I want to prove to him that it would be to his advantage for him to
come over to my side. Suppose that Enid gave it out that the star had been stolen? And suppose
that I could save him at the critical moment? I shouldn't mind him thinking that I had stolen
the star in the first place. That is why I am asking you as a novelist to help me."

"You would have made an excellent novelist yourself," David said, admiringly. "Give me five
minutes.... Are you there? I fancy I have it. Can't you hear me? That's better. I'll see Miss
Gates the first thing in the morning and get her to go over to Longdean and see your sister....
Confound it, don't cut us off yet. What does it matter so long as the messages are paid for?
Nobody else wants the line. Well, I may for an hour more.... Are you there? Very sorry; it's
the fault of the Post Office people. Here is the plot in a nutshell. Your sister has lost a
diamond star. She gives a minute description of it to the police, and drops a hint to the effect
that she believes it was taken away by mistake--in other words, was stolen--from her in London
by a chance acquaintance called Christabel Lee--"

"Ah," Chris cried, "how clever you are!"

"I have long suspected it," the thin voice went on, drily. "The full description of the star
will be printed in the Police Gazette, a copy of which every respectable pawnbroker always
gets regularly. I suppose the people where the star was pawned are respectable?"

"Highly so. They have quite a Bond Street establishment attached."

"So much the better. They will see the advertisement, and they will communicate with the police.
The Reverend James Merritt will be arrested--"

"I don't quite like that," Chris suggested.

"Oh, it's necessary. He will be arrested at the castle. Knowing his antecedents, the police
will not stand upon any ceremony with him. You will be filled with remorse. You have plunged
back into a career of crime again a being who was slowly climbing into the straight path once
more. You take the blame upon yourself--it was at your instigation that Merritt pawned the star."

"But, really, Mr. Steel--"

"Oh, I know. But the end justifies the means. You save Mr. Merritt, there is a bond of sympathy
between you, he will regard you as a great light in his interesting profession. You saved him
because you had appropriated the star yourself."

"And go to gaol instead of Mr. Merritt?"

"Not a bit of it. The star you deemed to be yours. You had one very like it when you saw Miss
Henson, when you were staying in London at the same hotel. By some means the jewels got mixed.
You are confident that an exchange has been made. Also you are confident that if Miss Henson
will search her jewel-case she will find a valuable star that does not belong to her. Miss
Henson does so, she is distressed beyond measure, she offers all kinds of apologies. Exit the
police. You need not tell Merritt how you get out of the difficulty, and thus you increase
his respect for you. There, that would make a very ingenious and plausible magazine story.
It should be more convincing in real life."

"Capital!" Chris murmured. "What an advantage it is to have a novelist to advise one! Many,
many thanks for all your kindness. Good-night!"

Chris rang off with a certain sense of relief. It was some time later before she had a chance
of conveying to Bell what had happened. He listened gravely to all that Chris had to say.

"Just the sort of feather-brained idea that would occur to a novelist," he said. "For my part,
I should prefer to confront Merritt with his theft, and keep the upper hand of him that way."

"And he would mistrust me and betray me at the first opportunity. Besides, in that case, he
would know at once that I wanted to get to the bottom of his connection with Reginald Henson.
Mr. Steel's plan may be bizarre, but it is safe."

"I never thought of that," Bell admitted. "I begin to imagine that you are more astute than
I gave you credit for, which is saying a great deal."

Chris was down early the following morning, only to find Bell at breakfast with every sign
of making an early departure. He was very sorry, he explained, gravely, to his host and Chris,
but his letters gave him no option, He would come back in a day or two if he might. A moment
later Henson came into the room, ostentatiously studying a Bradshaw.

"And where are you going?" Littimer asked. "Why do you all abandon me? Reginald, do you mean
to say that you are going to refuse me the light of your countenance?"

"Is Dr. Bell going, too?" Henson asked, with just a suggestion of uneasiness. "I mean--er--"

"Business," Bell said. "I came here at great personal inconvenience. And you?"

"London," Henson replied. "A meeting to-day that I cannot get out of. A couple of letters by
this morning's post have decided me."

Chris said nothing; she appeared to be quite indifferent until she had a chance to speak to
Bell alone. She looked a little anxious.

"He has found out about Van Sneck," she said. "Truly he is a marvellous man! And he had no
letters this morning. I opened the post-bag personally. But I'm glad he's going, because I
shall have James Merritt all to myself."

CHAPTER XXXIX

THE FASCINATION OF JAMES MERRITT

On the whole Mr. James Merritt, ex-convict and now humanitarian, was enjoying himself immensely.
He did not sleep at the castle, for Lord Littimer drew the line there, but he contrived to
get most of his meals under that hospitable roof, and spent a deal of time there. It was by
no means the first time he had been "taken up" by the aristocracy since his conversion, and
his shyness was wearing off. Moreover, Henson had given his henchman strict instructions to
keep his eyes open with a view to getting at the bottom of the Rembrandt mystery.

Still, there is always a crumpled rose-leaf somewhere, and Merritt had his. A few days after
Henson departed so hurriedly from town the stolen Rembrandt disappeared from Merritt's rooms.
Nobody knew anything about it; the thing had vanished, leaving no trace of the thief behind.
Perhaps Merritt would have been less easy in Littimer's society had he known that the missing
print was securely locked away in the latter's strong room. Still, had Merritt been acquainted
with the classics, carpe diem would like as not have been his favourite motto. He declined
to worry over the matter until Henson's return. It was not for him to know, yet, that Chris
had actually gone over to Moreton Wells, and, during the absence of Merritt's landlady, calmly
walked into the house and taken the picture away.

"You are going to see some fun presently," she said, coolly, to the astonished Littimer, as
she laid the missing picture before him. "No, I shall not tell you anything more at present.
You shall hear the whole story when Reginald Henson stands in the pillory before you. You know
now that Henson was at the bottom of the plot to destroy Dr. Bell's character?"

"I always felt that our Reginald was a great scoundrel," Littimer purred over his cigarette.
"And if you succeed in exposing him thoroughly I shall watch the performance with the greatest
possible pleasure. I am not curious, my dear young lady, but I would give sixpence to know
who you are."

"Keep your sixpence," Chris laughed, "and you'll know all in good time. All I ask is not to
be astonished at anything that happens."

Littimer averred that he had long since lost the power of astonishment. There was a brightness
and restlessness about Chris to-day that considerably added to her charms. It was nearly a
week now since Bell and Henson had departed, and in the meantime Chris had heard nothing from
Longdean. Half an hour before a telegram had arrived to the effect that a gentleman in a blue
coat might be expected at Littimer Castle at any moment. The police were coming, and Merritt
was late to-day. If Merritt failed to turn up the whole situation would be spoilt. It was with
a feeling of unutterable relief that Chris saw him coming up the drive.

"Come on the terrace," she said. "I have something very serious to say to you. Mr. Merritt,
you have got us both into very serious trouble. Why did you do it?"

"Ain't done nothing," Merritt said, doggedly. He repeated the old formula, "What's up?"

"Er--it's about my diamond star," said Chris. "I lost it a few days ago. If I had known what
was going to happen I should have put up with my loss. But I made inquiries through the police
without saying a word to anybody, and now I find the star was pawned in Moreton Wells."

"Oh, lor," Merritt gasped. "You don't mean to say the police know that, miss?"

"Indeed I do. You see, once I allowed matters to go out of my hands I was powerless. The case
now rests entirely with the police. And I am informed that they may come here and arrest you
at any moment. I fear there is no escape for you--you pawned the thing yourself in your own
name. What a thousand pities you yielded to sudden temptation."

"But I found it," Merritt whined. "I'll take my oath as I found it under the terrace. I--I--was
rambling along the cliffs one day and I found it. And I didn't know it was yours. If I had
known it was yours, I'd never have gone and done no such a thing."

Chris shook her head sadly.

"And just as you were getting on so nicely," she said.

"That's it," Merritt whined, brokenly. "Just as I was properly spoofing everybody as I--I mean
just as I was getting used to a better life. But you can save me, miss; you can say as you
were hard up for money and that, knowing as I knew the ropes, you got me to pawn it for you.
Put it in that way and there's not a policeman in England as can touch me."

"I had thought of it," Chris said, with a pretty assumption of distress. "But, but--Mr. Merritt,
I have a terrible confession to make. It was not I who started the police: it was somebody
else. You see, the star was not my property at all. I--I got it in London."

Mr. Merritt looked up with involuntary admiration.

"You don't mean to say as you nicked it?" he asked. "Well, well."

Chris bent her face lower to conceal her agitation, Her shoulders were heaving, but not with
emotion. The warmth of Merritt's admiration had moved her to silent laughter, and she had made
the exact impression that she had desired.

"I have telegraphed to the lady, who is more or less of a friend of mine," she said. "I have
urged her to take no further steps in the matter. I fancy that she is a good and kind girl
and that--but a reply might come at any time."

There was a reply on the way now, as Chris knew perfectly well. The whole thing had been carefully
arranged and planned to the moment by Steel and the others.

"I dare say they'll let you down easy," Merritt said, disconsolately; "but it'll be hot for
me. I've copped it too many times before, you see."

"Yes, I see," Chris said, thoughtfully. "Mr. Merritt, I have made up my mind: if I had not--er--borrowed
that star, it would not have been lost, and you would not have found it, and there would have
been no trouble. My conscience would not rest if I allowed you to be dragged back into the
old life again. I am going to save you--I am going to tell the police that you pawned that
star for me at my instigation."

Merritt was touched even to tears. There was not an atom of chivalry in the rascal's composition.
He had little or no heed for the trouble that his companion appeared to be piling up for herself,
but he was touched to the depths of his soul. Here was a clever girl, who in her own way appeared
to be a member of his profession, who was prepared to sacrifice herself to save another. Self-sacrifice
is a beautiful and tender thing, and Merritt had no intention of thwarting it.

"Do that, and I'm your pal for life," he said, huskily. "And I never went back on a pal yet.
Ask anybody as really knows me. 'Tain't as if you weren't one of us, neither. I'd give a trifle
to know what your little game is here, eh?"

Chris smiled meaningly. Merritt's delusion was distinctly to be fostered.

"You shall help me then, presently," she said in a mysterious whisper. "Help me and keep your
own counsel, and there will be the biggest job you ever had in your life. Only let you and
I get out of this mess, and we shall see what we shall see presently."

Merritt looked speechless admiration. He had read of this class of high-toned criminals in
the gutter stories peddled by certain publishers, but he had never hoped to meet one in the
flesh. He was still gazing open-mouthed at Chris as two men came along the avenue.

They were both in plain clothes, but they had "policeman" writ large all over them.

"Cops, for a million," Merritt gurgled, with a pallid face. "You can tell 'em when you're asleep.
And they are after me; they're coming this way. I'll be all right presently."

"I hope so," Chris said, with a curling lip. "You look guilty enough now."

Merritt explained that it was merely the first emotion, and would pass off presently. Nor did
he boast in vain. He was quite cool as the officers came up and called him by name.

"That's me," Merritt said. "What's the trouble?"

One of the officers explained. He had no warrant, he said, but all the same he would have to
trouble Mr. Merritt to accompany him to Moreton Wells. A diamond star not yet definitely identified
had been handed over to the police, the same having been pawned by James Merritt.

"That's quite right," Merritt said, cheerfully. "I pawned it for this young lady here--Miss
Lee. Of course, if it is not her property, why, then--"

The officer was palpably taken back. He knew more than he cared to say. The star had been pledged
by Merritt, as he cheerfully admitted, but the owner of the star had lost the gem in London
under suspicious circumstances in which Miss Lee was mixed up. And at present it was not the
policy of the police to arrest Miss Lee. That would come later.

"I am afraid that there has been a misapprehension altogether," Chris said. "Allow me to explain:
Mr. Merritt, would you step aside for a moment? I have to speak of private matters. Thank you.
Now, sir, I am quite prepared to admit that the ornament pledged does not belong to me, but
to Miss Henson, whom I met in London. I took the star by mistake. You may smile, but I have
one very like it. If Miss Henson had searched her jewels properly she would have found that
she had my star--that I had hers. I heard of the business quite by accident, and telegraphed
to Miss Henson to look searchingly amongst her jewels. She has a large amount, and might easily
have overlooked my star. Here is a boy with a telegram. Will you take it from him and read
it aloud? It is addressed to me, you will find."

It was. It was signed "Enid Henson"; it went on to say that the sender was fearfully sorry
for all the trouble she had caused, but that she had found Miss Lee's star with her jewels.
Also she had telegraphed at once to the police at Moreton Wells to go no farther.

"Looks like a mistake," the officer muttered. "But if we get that telegram--"

"Which has reached the police-station by this time," Chris interrupted. "Come into the castle
and ask the question over the telephone. I suppose you are connected?"

The officer said they were; in fact, they had only recently joined the Exchange. A brief visit
to the telephone, and the policeman came back, with a puzzled air and a little more deference
in his manner, with the information that he was to go back at once, as the case was closed.

"I've seen some near things in my time, but nothing nearer than this," he said. "Still, it's
all right now. Very sorry to have troubled you, miss."

The officers departed with the air of men who had to be satisfied, despite themselves. Merritt
came forward with an admiration almost fawning. He did not know quite how the thing had happened,
but Chris had done the police. Smartness and trickery of that kind were the highest form of
his idolatry. His admiration was nearly beyond words.

"Well, strike me," he gasped. "Did ever anyone ever see anything like that? You, as cool as
possible, and me with my heart in my mouth all the time. And there ain't going to be no trouble,
no sort of bother over the ticket?"

"You hand over that ticket to me," Chris smiled, "and there will be an end of the matter. And
if you try to play me false in any way, why, it will be a bad day for you. Give me your assistance,
and it will be the best day's work you ever did in your life."

Merritt's heart was gained. His pride was touched.

"Me go back on you?" he cried, hoarsely. "After what you've done? Only say the word, only give
old Jim Merritt a call, and it's pitch-and-toss to manslaughter for those pretty eyes of yours.
Good day's work! Aye, for both of us."

And Chris thought so too.

CHAPTER XL

A USEFUL DISCOVERY

Waiting with the eagerness of the greyhound in leash, David Steel was more annoyed and vexed
over the disappearance of the wounded Van Sneck than he cared to admit. He had an uneasy feeling
that the unseen foe had checkmated him again. And he had built up so many hopes upon this strangely-uninvited
guest of his. If that man spoke he could tell the truth. And both Cross and Bell had declared
that he would not die.

David found Cross in a frame of mind something like his own. It was late in the afternoon before
it transpired that Van Sneck was gone, and, unfortunately, David did not know where to find
Bell just at the moment. Cross had very little to say.

"A most unpleasant incident," he remarked. "But these things will happen, you know. We have
been so busy lately, and our vigilance has been slightly relaxed. Oh, it is impossible to guard
against everything, but he is certain to be found."

"You don't think," David suggested, "that anybody secretly connected with the man's past--"

"No, I don't," Cross snapped; "that would be impossible. The man had something on his mind,
and so far as bodily condition was concerned he was getting quite strong again. In his dazed
state he got up and dressed himself and went away. He seems to have been seeking for somebody
or something for days. We are certain to have him again before long."

With which poor consolation David returned home again. He was restless and desirous of human
companionship. He even resented it, as a kind of affront, that his mother had chosen at this
time to go to Hassocks to stay with an old friend for a couple of days. That Mrs. Steel knew
practically nothing of her son's trouble counted for naught. Therefore it was with something
akin to pleasure that David found Ruth Gates waiting in the drawing-room for him when he came
in from his walk on the following afternoon. Nothing had been heard of Van Sneck in the meantime,
but thanks to Chris's telephone message late the previous night he had got in touch with Bell,
who was coming south without delay.

There was a look of shy pleasure in Ruth's eyes and a deep carmine flush on her cheeks.

"You don't think that this is very bold of me?" she asked.

"I am pretty Bohemian in any case," David laughed, as he looked down fondly into the shy, sweet
eyes. "And I'm too overjoyed to see you to think about anything else. I wish my mother was
at home. No, I don't, because I have you all to myself."

"David! On an occasion like this you ought to be the pink of propriety. Do you know, I believe
that I have made a great discovery?"

"Indeed, little girl! And what have you found out?"

"Well, you must tell me something before my discovery seems valuable. David, you are a close
student of human nature. Is it possible for men of phenomenal cunning to make careless mistakes?
Do the most clever criminals ever make childish blunders?"

"My dear child, if they didn't the police would have very little chance. For instance, I have
discovered how those enemies of ours got hold of the notepaper that lured Van Sneck here. They
sent a messenger to Carter's, in East Street, presumedly knowing that my dies were there, and
ordered a quarter of a ream of paper and envelopes. These were to be sent to an address in
East Grinstead in a hurry. Now, that was very clever and smart, but here comes the folly. Those
people, in the stress of business, actually forgot to ascertain the cost and pay for the paper,
so that it was down yesterday in my last quarter's bill. Oh, yes, I assure you, the most brilliant
criminals do the most incredibly foolish things."

Ruth looked relieved. Her pretty features relaxed into a smile.

"Then I fancy Reginald Henson has done so," she said. "I fancy I have solved the mystery of
the cigar-case--I mean, the mystery of the one I bought."

"And which was changed for the one purchased at Walen's, hence these tears. But Lockharts say
that our case was really purchased by an American."

"Yes, I know. And I fancy that the manager honestly thought so. But I think I can explain that."

It was David's turn to look up eagerly.

"Do you mean it?" he exclaimed. "It will make a wonderful difference if you can. That has been
one of the most bewildering knots of the whole puzzle. If we could only trace the numbers of
those notes, I suppose changed at the same time as the cigar-case."

"Indeed they were not," Ruth cried. "I have ascertained that the case was changed by Henson,
as you and I have already decided. Henson made the exchange not at the time we thought."

"Not when you left the package on the table for him to see?"

"No; at least I can't say. He had the other case then, probably, passed on to him by Van Sneck.
Or perhaps he merely ascertained what I had purchased. That was sufficient for his purpose.
Of course he must have found out all about our scheme. After I had laid my cigar-case on your
doorstep a man quietly changed it for the other purchased at Walen's. But this is the alternate
theory only. Any way, I am absolutely certain that you got exactly the same notes that we had
placed in the original case."

"That might be," David said, thoughtfully. "But that does not explain the fact that Lockhart's
sold your case to an American at the Metropole."

"I fancy I can even explain that, dear. My uncle came down suddenly to-day from London. He
wanted certain papers in a great hurry. Now, those papers were locked up in a drawer at 219
given over specially to Mr. Henson. My uncle promptly broke open the drawer and took out the
papers. Besides those documents the drawer contained a package in one of Lockhart's big linen-lined
envelopes--a registered letter envelope, in fact. My uncle had little time to spare, as he
was bound to be back in London to-night. He suggested that as the back of the drawer was broken
and the envelope presumably contained valuables, I had better take care of it. Well, I must
admit at once that I steamed the envelope open. I shouldn't have done so if Lockhart's name
had not been on the flap. In a little case inside I found a diamond bracelet, which I have
in my pocket, together with a receipted bill for seventy odd pounds made out to me."

"To you?" David cried. "Do you mean to say that--"

"Indeed I do. The receipt was made out to me, and with it was a little polite note to the effect
that Messrs. Lockhart had made the exchange of the cigar-case for the diamond bracelet, and
that they hoped Miss Gates would find the matter perfectly satisfactory."

David was too astonished to say anything for the moment. The skein was too tangled to be thought
out all at once. Presently he began to see his way.

"Under ordinary circumstances the change seems impossible," he said. "Especially seeing that
the juggling could not have been done without both the cases--but I had forgotten how easily
the cases were changed. I have it! What is the date of that letter?"

Ruth slowly unfolded a document she had taken from her purse.

"The day following what you call your great adventure," she said. "Henson or somebody took
the real case--my case--back to Lockhart's and changed it in my name. I had previously been
admiring this selfsame bracelet, and they had tried to sell it to me. My dear boy, don't you
see this is all part of the plot to plunge you deeper and deeper into trouble, to force us
all to speak to save you? There are at least fifteen assistants at Lockhart's. Of course the
ultimate sale of the cigar-case to this American could be proved, seeing that the case had
got back into stock again, and at the same time the incident of the change quite forgotten.
And when you go and ask questions at Lockhart's--as you were pretty sure to do, as Henson knew--you
are told of the sale only to the American. Depend upon it, that American was Henson himself
or somebody in his pay. David, that man is too cunning, too complex. And some of these days
it is going to prove his fall."

David nodded thoughtfully. And yet, without something very clever and intricate in the way
of a scheme, Henson could not have placed him in his present fix.

"There is only one thing to be done," he said. "You and I must go down to Lockhart's and make
a few inquiries. With that diamond bracelet and letter in your possession you should have no
difficulty in refreshing their memories. Will you have some tea?"

"I am too excited," Ruth laughed. "I couldn't eat or drink anything just at present. David,
what a lovely house you have."

"I'm glad to hear that you are going to like it," David said, drily.

Lockhart's received their customers in the usual courtly style. They were sorry they had no
recollection of the transaction to which madam referred. The sale of the bracelet was clear,
because that was duly and properly recorded on the books, and as indeed was the sale of the
gun-metal cigar-case to an American gentleman at the Metropole. If madam said that she had
purchased the cigar-case, why--still the polite assistant was most courteously incredulous.

The production of the letter made a difference. There was a passing of confidences from one
plate-glass counter to another, and presently another assistant came forward. He profoundly
regretted that there had been a mistake, but he remembered the incident perfectly. It was the
day before he had departed on his usual monthly visit to the firm's Paris branch. Madam had
certainly purchased the cigar-case; but before the sale could be posted in the stock ledger
madam had sent a gentleman to change the case for the diamond bracelet previously admired.
The speaker had attended to both the sale and the exchange; in fact, his cab was waiting for
him during the latter incident.

"I trust there is nothing wrong?" he asked, anxiously.

"Not in the least," Ruth hastened to reply. "The whole matter is a kind of comedy that I wanted
to solve. It is a family joke, you understand. And who made the exchange?"

"Mr. Gates, madam. A tall gentleman, dressed in--"

"That is quite sufficient, thank you," said Ruth. "I am sorry to trouble you over so silly
a matter."

The assistant assured madam with an air of painful reproach that nothing was counted a trouble
in that establishment. He bowed his visitors out and informed them that it was a lovely afternoon,
a self-evident axiom that the most disputatious could not well deny.

"You see how your inquiries might have been utterly baffled but for this find of mine," Ruth
said, as the two went along North Street. "We shall find presently that the Metropole American
and Reginald Henson are one and the same person."

"And you fancy that he made the exchange at Lockhart's?"

"I feel pretty certain of it," Ruth replied. "And you will be sure later on to find that he
had a hand in the purchase of the other cigar-case from Walen's. Go to Marley's and get him
to make inquiries as to whether or not Walen's got their case down on approval."

David proceeded to do so without further delay. Inspector Marley was out, but David left a
message for him. Would he communicate by telephone later on? Steel had just finished his dinner
when Marley rang him up.

"Are you there? Yes, I have seen Walen. Your suggestion was quite right. Customer had seen
cigar-case exactly like it in Lockhart's, only too dear. Walen dealt with some manufacturers
and got case down. Oh, no, never saw customer again. That sort of thing happens to shopkeepers
every day. Yes. Walen thinks he would recognise his man again. Nothing more? Good-night, sir."

CHAPTER XLI

A DELICATE ERRAND

It looked like being a long, dull evening for Steel if he were not going to the theatre or
anything of that kind. He generally read till about eleven o'clock, after which he sat up for
another couple of hours plotting out the day's task for to-morrow. To-night he could only wander
restlessly about his conservatory, snipping off a dead leaf here and there and wondering where
the whole thing was going to end.

With a certain sense of relief David heard the front door-bell trill about eleven o'clock.
Somebody was coming to see him, and it didn't matter much who in Steel's present frame of mind.
But he swept into the study with a feeling of genuine pleasure as Hatherly Bell was announced.

"My dear fellow, I'm delighted to see you," he cried. "Take the big armchair. Let me give you
a cigar and a whisky and soda and make you comfortable. That's better."

"I'm tired out," Bell said. "In London all day, and since six with Cross. Can you put me up
for the night?"

"My bachelor bedroom is always ready, Bell."

"Thanks. I don't fancy you need be under any apprehension that anybody has spirited Van Sneck
away. In the first place Henson, who seems to have discovered what happened, is in a terrible
state about it. He wanted very badly to remain at Littimer, but when he heard that Van Sneck
had left the hospital he came down here; in fact, we travelled together. Of course he said
nothing whatever about Van Sneck, whom he is supposed to know nothing about, but I could see
that he was terribly disturbed. The worst of it is that Cross was going to get me to operate
on Van Sneck; and Heritage, who seems wonderfully better, was going to assist."

"Is your unfortunate friend up to that kind of thing now?" David asked.

"I fancy so. Do you know that Heritage used to have a fairly good practice near Littimer Castle?
Lord Littimer knows him well. I want Heritage to come into this. I want to get at the reason
why Henson has been so confoundedly good to Heritage. For years he has kept his eye upon him;
for years he has practically provided him with a home at Palmer's. And when Heritage mentions
Henson's name he always does so with a kind of forced gratitude."

"You think that Heritage is going to be useful to us?"

"I fancy so. Mind you, it is only my idea--what I call intuition, for want of a better word.
And what have you been doing lately?"

David proceeded to explain, giving the events of the afternoon in full detail. Bell followed
the account with the deepest interest. Then he proceeded to tell his own story. David appeared
to be fascinated with the tale of the man with the thumb-nail.

"So Miss Chris hopes to hypnotise the man with the thumb," he said. "You have seen more of
her than I have, Bell. Does she strike you as she strikes me--a girl of wonderfully acute mind
allied to a pluck and audacity absolutely brilliant?"

"She is that and more," Bell said, warmly. "Now that she is free to act she has developed wonderfully.
Look how cleverly she worked out that Rembrandt business, how utterly she puzzled Henson, and
how she helped me to get into Littimer's good books again without Henson even guessing at the
reason. And now she has forced the confidence of that rascal Merritt. She has saved him from
a gaol into which she might have thrown him at any moment, she has convinced him that she is
something exceedingly brilliant in the way of an adventuress, with a great coup ahead. Later
on she will use Merritt, and a fine hard-cutting tool she will find him."

"Where is Henson at the present moment?" David asked.

"I left him in London this afternoon," Bell replied. "But I haven't the slightest doubt in
the world that he has made his way to Brighton by this time. In all probability he has gone
to Longdean."

Bell paused as the telephone bell rang out shrilly. The mere sound of it thrilled both of them
with excitement. And what a useful thing the telephone had proved!

"Are you there?" came the quick, small whisper. "Is that you, Mr. Steel? I am Enid Henson."

There was a long pause, during which David was listening intently. Bell could see him growing
rigid with the prospect of something keen, alert, and vigorous.

"Bell is here with me at this moment," he said. "Just wait a minute whilst I tell him. Don't
go away, please. Under the circumstances it might be dangerous for me to ring you ... Just
a moment. Here's a pretty mess."

"Well," Bell said, impatiently, "I'm only a mere man, after all."

"Henson is at Longdean; he turned up an hour ago, and at the present moment is having his supper
in the library before going to bed. But that is not the worst part of it. Williams heard the
dogs making a great noise by the gates, and went to see what was wrong. Some poor, demented
fellow had climbed over the wall, and the dogs were holding him up. Fortunately, he did not
seem to be conscious of his danger, and as he stood still the hounds did him no harm. Williams
was going to put the intruder into the road again when Miss Henson came up. And whom do you
suppose the poor, wandering tramp to be?"

Bell pitched his cigar into the grate full of flowers and jumped to his feet.

"Van Sneck, for a million," he cried. "My head to a cocoanut on it."

"The same. They managed to get the poor fellow into the house before Williams brought Henson
from the lodge, and he's in the stables now in a rather excited condition. Now, I quite agree
with Miss Henson that Henson must be kept in ignorance of the fact, also that Van Sneck must
be got away without delay. To inform the hospital authorities would be to spoil everything
and play into Henson's hands. But he must be got away to-night."

"Right you are. We'll go and fetch him. Et apres?"

"Et apres he will stay here. He shall stay here, and you shall say that it is dangerous to
remove him. Cross shall be told and Marley shall be told, and the public shall be discreetly
kept in ignorance for the present. I'll go over there at once, as there is no time to be lost.
Miss Henson suggests that I should come, and she tells me that Williams will wait at the lodge-gates
for me. But you are going to stay here."

"Oh, indeed! And why am I going to stay here?"

"Because, my dear friend, I can easily manage the business single-handed, and because you must
run no risk of meeting Henson yonder. You are not now supposed to know where the family are,
nor are you supposed to take the faintest interest in them. Stay here and make yourself comfortable
till I return.... Are you there? I will be at Longdean as soon as possible and bring Van Sneck
here. No, I won't ring off; you had better do that. I shall be over in less than an hour."

David hung up the receiver and proceeded to don a short covert coat and a cap. In the breast-pocket
of the coat he placed a revolver.

"Just as well to be on the safe side," he said. "Though I am not likely to be troubled with
the man with the thumb again. Still, Henson may have other blackguards; he may even know where
Van Sneck is at the present moment, for all I know to the contrary."

"I feel rather guilty letting you go alone," Bell said.

"Not a bit of it," said David, cheerfully. "Smoke your cigar, and if you need any supper ring
for it. You can safely leave matters in my hands. Van Sneck shall stay here till he is fit,
and then you shall operate upon him. After that he ought to be as clay in the hands of the
potter. So long."

And David went off gaily enough. He kept to the cliffs for the first part of the distance,
and then struck off across the fields in the direction of Longdean. The place was perfectly
quiet, the village was all in darkness as he approached the lodge-gates of the Grange. Beyond
the drive and between the thick, sad firs that shielded the house he could see the crimson
lights gleaming here and there. He could catch the rumble and scratch in the bushes, and ever
and again a dog whined. The big gate was closed as David peeped in searching for his guide.

"Williams," he whispered; "Williams, where are you?"

But no reply came. The silence was full of strange, rushing noises, the rush of blood in David's
head. He called again and again, but no reply came. Then he heard the rush and fret of many
feet, the cry of a pack of hounds, a melancholy cry, with a sombre joy in it. He saw a light
gleaming fitfully in the belt of firs.

"No help for it," David muttered. "I must chance my luck. I never saw a dog yet that I was
afraid of. Well, here goes."

He scrambled over the wall and dropped on the moist, clammy earth on the other side. He fumbled
forward a few steps, and then stopped suddenly, brought up all standing by the weird scene
which was being solemnly enacted under his astonished eyes.

CHAPTER XLII

PRINCE RUPERT'S RING

Whilst events were moving rapidly outside, time at Longdean Grange seemed to stand still. The
dust and the desolation were ever there. The gloom brooded like an evil spirit. And yet it
was but the calm before the storm that was coming to banish the hoary old spectres for good.

Still, Enid felt the monotony to be as maddening as ever. There were times when she rebelled
passionately against the solitude of the place. There were moments to her when it seemed that
her mind couldn't stand the strain much longer.

But she had hope, that blessed legacy to the sanguine and the young. And there were times when
she would creep out and see Ruth Gates, who found the Rottingdean Road very convenient for
cycling just now. And there was always the anticipation of a telephone message from Chris.
Originally the telephone had been established so that the household could be run without the
intrusion of tradesmen and other strangers. It had seemed a great anomaly at the time, but
now Enid blessed it every moment of the day. And she was, perhaps, not quite so unhappy as
she deemed herself to be. She had her lover back again now, with his character free from every
imputation.

The sun straggled in through the dim, dusty panes; the monotonous voice of Mrs. Henson droned
in the drawing-room. It was what Williams called one of the unhappy lady's "days." Sometimes
she was quiet and reasonable, at other times the dark mood hung heavily upon her. She was pacing
up and down the drawing-room, wringing her hands and whimpering to herself. Enid had slipped
into the grounds for a little fresh air; the house oppressed her terribly to-day. The trim
lawns and blazing flowerbeds were a pleasant contrast to the misery and disorder of the house.

Enid passed on into the shadow of the plantation. A little farther on nearer the wall the dogs
seemed to be excited about something. William's rusty voice could be heard expostulating with
some intruder. By him stood a man who, though fairly well dressed, looked as if he had slept
in his garments for days. There was a dazed, puzzled, absent expression on his face.

"You might have been killed," Williams croaked. "If you hadn't stood still they dogs would
have pulled you to pieces. How did you get here?"

"I've lost it," the stranger muttered. "I've lost it somewhere, and I shall have no rest till
I find it."

"Well, go and look in the road," Williams suggested, smoothly. "Nothing ever gets lost here.
Just you hop over that wall and try your luck outside."

Enid came forward. Evidently the intruder was no stranger to her. Williams started to explain
volubly. But Enid cut him short at once.

"A most extraordinary thing has happened," she said. "It is amazing that this man should come
here of all places. Williams, this is the man Van Sneck."

"What, the chap as was wounded in the hospital, miss?"

"The same. The man is not in full possession of his senses. And if Reginald Henson finds him
now it is likely to go hard with him. He must be taken into the house and looked after until
I can communicate with somebody I can trust. Mr. Steel, I think. He must be got back to the
hospital. It is the only place where he is safe."

Van Sneck seemed to be looking on with the vacant stare of the mindless. He suffered himself
to be led to the house, where he was fed like a child. It was in vain that Enid plied him with
all kinds of questions. He had lost something--he would have no peace till he had found it.
This was the one burden of his cry. Enid crossed to the window in some perplexity. The next
moment she had something else to occupy her mind. Reginald Henson was coming up the drive.
Just for an instant Enid felt inclined to despair.

"Williams," she cried, "Mr. Henson is here. On no account must he see our unfortunate visitor.
He cannot possibly know that Van Sneck is here; the whole thing is an accident. I am going
down into the hall. I shall contrive to get Mr. Henson into the drawing-room. Without delay
you must smuggle Mr. Van Sneck into your apartments over the stable. You will be perfectly
safe if you go down the back staircase. As soon as the drawing-room door closes, go."

Williams nodded. He was essentially a man of action rather than words. With all the coolness
she could summon up Enid descended to the hall. She gave a little gesture of surprise and disdain
as she caught sight of Henson.

"So you came down to welcome me?" Enid said, coldly.

A sudden light of rage lit up Henson's blue eyes. He caught Enid almost roughly by the shoulders
and pushed her into the drawing-room. There was something coming, she knew. It was a relief
a minute or two later to hear Williams's whistle as he crossed the courtyard. Henson knew nothing
of Van Sneck's presence, nor was he likely to do so now.

"You are forgetting yourself," Enid said. "How dare you touch me like that?"

"By heavens," Henson whispered, vehemently, "when I consider how I have been fooled by you
I wonder that I do not strike the life out of you. Where is your sister?"

Enid assumed an air of puzzled surprise. She raised her eyebrows, coldly. But it needed no
very brilliant intelligence to tell her that Henson had discovered something.

"I had only one sister," she said, "and she is--"

"Dead! Rot. No more dead than I am. A nice little scheme you had put up together with that
scribbling ass David Steel. But Steel is going to get a lesson not to interfere in my affairs,
and you are going to get one also. Where is your sister?"

Despite his bullying triumph there was something nervous and anxious about the tone of the
question. It was not quite like Henson to let his adversary see that he had scored a point.
But since the affair of the dogs Henson had not been quite his old self. It was easy to see
that he had found out a great deal, but he had not found out where Chris was yet.

"I know nothing," said Enid. "I shall answer no questions."

"Very well. But I shall find out. Accident put me on the trail first. And I have been to see
that man Walker. He never saw your sister after her 'death,' nor did the undertaker. And I
might have met my death at the fangs of that dog you put upon me. What a fool Walker was."

Enid looked up a little anxiously. Had Walker said anything about a second opinion? Had he
betrayed to Henson the fact that he had been backed up by Hatherly Bell? Because they had taken
a deal of trouble to conceal the fact that Bell had been in the house.

"Dr. Walker should have called in another opinion," she said, mockingly.

"The man was too conceited for that, and you know it," Henson growled; "and finely you played
upon his vanity."

Enid was satisfied. Walker had evidently said nothing about Bell; and Henson, though he had
just come from Littimer, knew nothing about Chris.

"You have made a statement," she said, "and in reply I say nothing. You have chosen to assume
that my sister is still alive. Well, it is a free country, and you are at liberty to think
as you please. If we had anything to gain by the course you suggest--"

"Anything to gain!" Henson burst out angrily.

"Everything to gain. One whom I deemed to be dead is free to follow me to pry into my affairs,
to rob me. That was part of Steel's precious scheme, I presume. If you and your sister and
Miss Gates hadn't talked so loudly that day in the garden I might not--"

"Have listened," said Enid, coldly. "Ears like a hare and head like a cat. But you don't know
everything, and you never will. You scoundrel, you creeping, crawling scoundrel! If I only
dared to speak. If I cared less for the honour of this unhappy family--"

"If you could only get the ring," said Henson, with a malicious sneer. "But the ring is gone.
The ruby ring lies at the bottom of the North Sea."

Some passionate, heedless words rose to Enid's lips, but she checked them. All she could do
now was to watch and wait till darkness. Van Sneck must be got out of the way before anything
else was done. She did not dare to use the telephone yet, though she had made up her mind to
ask Steel to come over and take Van Sneck away. Later on she could send the message.

Van Sneck had eaten a fairly good meal, so Williams said, and had fallen into a heavy sleep.
There was nothing for it but to wait and watch. Dinner came in due course, with Mrs. Henson,
ragged and unkempt as usual, taking no notice of Henson, who watched her furtively during the
meal. Enid escaped to her own room directly afterwards, and Henson followed his hostess to
the drawing-room.

Once there his manner changed entirely. His lips grew firm, his eyes were like points of steel.
Mrs. Henson was pacing the dusty floor, muttering and crooning to herself. Henson touched her
arm, at the same time holding some glittering object before her eyes. It was a massive ruby
ring with four black pearls on either side.

"Look here," he whispered. "Do you recognise it? Have you seen it before?"

A pitiful, wailing cry came from Mrs. Henson's lips. She was trembling from head to foot with
a strange agitation. She gazed at the ring as a thirsty man in a desert might have looked on
a draught of cold spring water. She stretched out her hand, but Henson drew back.

"I thought you had not forgotten it," he smiled. "It means much to you, honour, peace, happiness--your
son restored to his proper place in the world. Last time I was here I wanted money, a mere
bagatelle to you. Now I want £10,000."

"No, no," Mrs. Henson cried. "You will ruin me--£10,000! What do you do with all the money?
You profess to give it all to charity. But I know better. Much you give away that more may
come back from it. But that money you get from a credulous public. And I could expose you,
ah, how I could expose you, Reginald Henson."

"Instead of which you will let me have that £10,000."

"I cannot. You will ruin me. Have you not had enough? Give me the ring."

Henson smilingly held the gem aloft. Mrs. Henson raised her arm, with the dust rising in choking
clouds around her. Then with an activity astonishing in one of her years she sprang upon Henson
and tore the ring from his grasp. The thing was so totally unexpected from the usually gentle
lady that Henson could only gasp in astonishment.

"I have it," Mrs. Henson cried. "I have it, and I am free!"

Henson sprang towards her. With a quick, fleet step she crossed to the window and fled out
into the night. A raging madness seemed to have come over her again; she laughed and she cried
as she sped on into the bushes, followed by Henson. In his fear and desperation the latter
had quite forgotten the dogs. He was in the midst of them, they were clustered round himself
and Mrs. Henson, before he was aware of the fact.

"Give me the ring," he said. "You can't have it yet. Some day I will restore it to you. Be
sensible. If anybody should happen to see you." Mrs. Henson merely laughed. The dogs were gambolling
around her like so many kittens. They did not seem to heed Henson in the joy of her presence.
He came on again, he made a grab for her dress, but the rotten fabric parted like a cobweb
in his hand. A warning grunt came from one of the dogs, but Henson gave no heed.

"Give it me," he hissed; "or I will tear it from you."

CHAPTER XLIII

HEARING THE TRUTH

David Steel stood contemplating the weird scene with almost doubting eyes. In his wildest moments
he had never imagined anything more dramatic than this. The candle in its silver sconce that
Mrs. Henson had snatched up before her flight was perilously near her flimsy dress. Henson
caught her once more in a fierce grip. David could stand it no longer. As Henson came by him
his right arm flashed out, there was a dull thud, and Henson, without having the least idea
what had happened, fell to the ground, with a very hazy idea of his surroundings for a moment
or two.

Equally unconscious that she had a protector handy, Mrs. Henson turned and fled for the house.
A minute later and she was followed by Henson, still puzzling his racking head to know what
had happened. David would have followed, but the need for caution flashed upon him. If he stood
there perfectly still Henson would never know who his antagonist was. David stood there waiting.
As he glanced round he saw some little object glittering near to his feet. It was the ruby ring!

"Be you there, sir?" a rusty voice whispered close by.

"I am, Williams," David replied; "I have been waiting for some time."

Williams chuckled, making no kind of apology for his want of punctuality.

"I've been looking after our man, sir," he said. "That Dutch chap what Miss Enid said you'd
come for. And I saw all that business in the shrubbery just now. My! if I didn't feel good
when you laid out Henson on the grass. The sound of that smack was as good as ten years' wages
for me. And he's gone off to his room with a basin of vinegar and a ream of brown paper. Why
didn't you break his neck?"

David suggested that the law took a prejudiced view of that kind of thing, and that it would
be a pity to hang anyone for such a creature as Reginald Henson.

"Our man is all right?" he asked.

"As a trivet," said Williams. "Sleeping like a baby; he is in my own bed over the stable. I'll
show you into the harness-room, where Miss Enid's waiting for you, sir, and then I'll go and
see as Henson don't come prowling about. Not as he's likely to, considering the clump on the
side of the head you gave him. I take it kind of Providence to let me see that!"

Williams hobbled away, chuckling to himself and followed by David. There was a feeble oil-lamp
in the harness-room. Enid was waiting there anxiously.

"So you have put Henson out of the way for a time," she said. "He passed me just now using
awful language, and wondering how it had all come about. Wasn't it a strange thing that Van
Sneck should come here?"

"Not very," David said. "He is evidently looking for his master, Reginald Henson. I have not
the slightest doubt that he has been here many times before. Williams says he is asleep. Pity
to wake him just yet, don't you think?"

"Perhaps it is. But I am horribly afraid of our dear friend Reginald, all the same."

"Our dear Reginald will not trouble us just yet. He came down as far as London with Bell. Of
course he had heard the news of Van Sneck's flight. Was he disturbed?"

"I have never seen him in such a passion before, Mr. Steel. And not only was he in a passion,
but he was horribly afraid about something. And he has made a discovery."

"He hasn't found out that your sister--"

"Is at Littimer Castle? That is really the most consoling part of the business. He has been
at Littimer for a day or two, and he has not the remotest idea that Christabel Lee is our Chris."

"A feather in your sister's cap. She has quite captivated Littimer, Bell says."

"And she played her part splendidly. Mr. Steel, it is very, very good to know that Hatherly
has cleared himself in the eyes of Lord Littimer at last. Did Reginald suspect--"

"Nothing," Steel said. "He is utterly and hopelessly puzzled over the whole business. And Bell
has managed to convince him that he is not suspected at all. That business over the Rembrandt
was really a brilliant bit of comedy. But what has Henson found out?"

"That Chris is not dead. He has seen Walker and the undertaker. But he does not know yet that
Dr. Bell was in the house that eventful night, which is a blessing. As a matter of fact, Reginald
has not been quite the same man since Rollo nearly killed him that exciting evening. His nerves
seem to be greatly shaken."

"That is because the rascal feels the net closing round him," Steel said. "It was a fine stroke
on your sister's part to win over that fellow Merritt to her side. I supplied the details per
telephone, but the plot was really Miss Chris's. How on earth should we have managed without
the telephone over this business?"

"I am at a loss to say," Enid smiled. "But tell me about that plot. I am quite in the dark
as to that side of the matter."

David proceeded to explain his own and Chris's ingenious scheme for getting Merritt into their
power. Enid followed the story with vast enjoyment, tempered with the fact that Henson was so near.

"I should never have thought of that," she said; "but Chris was always so clever. But tell
me, what was Henson doing in the garden just now? Williams says he was illtreating my aunt,
but that seems hardly possible even for Reginald."

"It was over a ring that Mrs. Henson had," David explained. "She was running away with it,
and Henson was trying to get it back. You see--"

"A ring!" Enid gasped. "Did you happen to see it? Oh, if it is only--. But he would not be
so silly as that. A ring is the cause of all the trouble. Did you see it?"

"I not only saw it but I have it in my possession," David replied.

Enid turned up the flaring little lamp with a shaking hand. Quite unstrung, she held out her
fingers for the ring.

"It is just possible," she said, hoarsely, "that you possess the key of the situation. If that
ring is what I hope it is we can tumble Henson into the dust to-morrow. We can drive him out
of the country, and he will never, never trouble us again. How did you get it?"

"Mrs. Henson dropped it and I picked it up."

"Please let me see it," Enid said, pleadingly. "Let me be put out of my misery."

David handed the ring over; Enid regarded it long and searchingly. With a little sigh of regret
she passed it back to David once more.

"You had better keep it," she said. "At any rate, it is likely to be valuable evidence for
us later on. But it is not the ring I hoped to see. It is a clever copy, but the black pearls
are not so fine, and the engraving inside is not so worn as it used to be on the original.
It is evidently a copy that Henson has had made to tease my aunt with, to offer her at some
future date in return for the large sums of money that she gave him. No; the original of that
ring is popularly supposed to be at the bottom of the North Sea. If such had been the case--seeing
that Henson had never handled it before the Great Tragedy came--the original must be in existence."

"Why so?" David asked.

"Because the ring must have been copied from it," Enid said. "It is a very faithful copy indeed,
and could not have been made from mere directions--take the engraving inside, for instance.
The engraving forms the cipher of the house of Littimer, If Henson has the real ring, if we
can find it, the tragedy goes out of our lives for ever."

"I should like to hear the story," said Steel.

Enid paused and lowered the lamp as a step was heard outside. But it was only Williams.

"Mr. Henson is in his bedroom still," he said. "I've just taken him the cigars. He's got a
lump on his head as big as a billiard-ball. Thinks he hit it against a branch. And my lady
have locked herself in her room and refused to see anybody."

"Go and look at our patient," Enid commanded.

Williams disappeared, to return presently with the information that Van Sneck was still fast
asleep and lying very peacefully.

"Looks like waiting till morning, it do," he said. "And now I'll go back and keep my eye on
that 'ere distinguished philanthropist."

Williams disappeared, and Enid turned up the lamp again. Her face was pale and resolute. She
motioned David towards a chair.

"I'll tell you the story," she said. "I am going to confide in you the saddest and strangest
tale that ever appealed to an imaginative novelist."

CHAPTER XLIV

ENID SPEAKS

"I am going to tell you the story of the great sorrow that has darkened all our lives, but
I shall have to go a long way back to do it," Enid said. "I go back to the troublous day of
Charles, as far back as the disastrous fight at Naseby. Of course I am speaking more from a
Royalist point of view, for the Littimers were always followers of the Court.

"Mind you, there is doubtless a deal that is legendary about what I am going to tell you. But
the ring given to my ancestor Rupert Littimer by Prince Rupert himself is an actuality.

"Naseby was over, and, so the legend goes, Prince Rupert found himself desperately situated
and in dire peril of capture by Cromwell's troops, under one Colonel Carfax, a near neighbour
of Rupert Littimer; indeed, the Carfax estates still run parallel with the property round Littimer
Castle.

"Now, Carfax was hated by all those who were attached to the fortunes of the King. Seeing that
he was of aristocratic birth, it was held that he had violated his caste and creed by taking
sides with the Roundheads. History has told us that he was right, and that the Cavaliers, picturesque
as they were, were fighting a dubious cause. But I need not go into that. Carfax was a hard,
stern man who spared nobody, and many were the stories told of his cruelty.

"He and Rupert Littimer were especially at daggers drawn. I believe that both of them had been
in love with the same woman or something of that kind. And the fact that she did not marry
either made little difference to the bitterness between them.

"Well, Carfax was pressing close on Rupert, so close, indeed, that unless some strategy were
adopted the brilliant cavalry leader was in dire peril. It was there that my ancestor, Rupert
Littimer, came forward with his scheme. He offered to disguise himself and go into the camp
of Carfax and take him prisoner. The idea was to steal into the tent of Carfax and, by threatening
him with his life, compel him to issue certain orders, the result of which would be that Prince
Rupert could get away.

"'You will never come back again, friend,' the Prince said.

"Rupert Littimer said he was prepared to run all risk of that. 'And if I do die you shall tell
my wife, sir,' he said. 'And when the child is born, tell him that his father died as he should
have done for his King and for his country.'"

"'Oh, there is a child coming?' Rupert asked.

"Littimer replied that for aught he knew he was a father already. And then he went his way
into the camp of the foe with his curls cut short and in the guise of a countryman who comes
with valuable information. And, what is more, he schemed his way into Carfax's tent, and at
the point of a dagger compelled him to write a certain order which my ancestor's servant, who
accompanied him, saw carried into effect, and so the passage for Prince Rupert was made free."

"The ruse would have succeeded all round but for some little accident that I need not go into
now. Rupert Littimer was laid by the heels, his disguise was torn off, and he stood face to
face with his hereditary foe. He was told that he had but an hour to live."

"'If you have any favour to ask, say it,' Carfax said.

"'I have no favour to ask, properly so-called,' Littimer replied; 'but I am loth to die without
knowing whether or not I have left anybody to succeed me--anybody who will avenge the crime
upon you and yours in the years to come. Let me go as far as Henson Grange, and I pledge you
my word I will return in the morning!'

"But Carfax laughed the suggestion to scorn. The Court party were all liars and perjurers,
and their word was not to be taken.

"'It is as I say,' Rupert Littimer repeated. 'My wife lies ill at Henson Grange and in sore
trouble about me. And I should like to see my child before I die.'

"'Then you shall have the chance,' Carfax sneered. 'I will keep you a close prisoner here for
two days, and if at the end of that time nothing happens, you die. If, on the other hand, a
child is born to you, then you shall go from here a free man.'

"And so the compact was made. Unfortunately or fortunately, as the case may be, the story got
abroad, and some indiscreet person carried the news to Dame Littimer. Ill as she was, she insisted
upon getting up and going over to Carfax's camp at once. She had barely reached there before--well,
long ere Rupert Littimer's probation was over, he was the father of a noble boy. They say that
the Roundheads made a cradle for the child out of a leather breastplate, and carried it in
triumph round the camp. And they held the furious Carfax to his word, and the story spread
and spread until it came to the ears of Prince Rupert.

"Then he went to see Dame Littimer, and from his own hand he drew what is known in our family
as Prince Rupert's ring. He placed it on Dame Littimer's hand, there to remain for a year and
a day, and when the year was up it was to be put aside for the bride of the heir of the house
for ever, to be worn by her till a year and a day had elapsed after her first child was born.
And that has been done for all time, my aunt, Lady Littimer, being the last to wear it. After
Frank was born it was put carefully away for his bride. But the great tragedy came, and until
lately we fancied that the ring was lost to us for ever. There is, in a few words, the story
of Prince Rupert's ring. So far it is quite common property."

Enid ceased to speak for a time. But it was evident that she had more to say.

"An interesting story," David said. "And a pretty one to put into a book, especially as it
is quite true. But you have lost the ring, you say?"

"I fancied so till to-night," Enid replied. "Indeed, I hardly knew what to think. Sometimes
I imagined that Reginald Henson had it, at other times I imagined that it was utterly gone.
But the mere fact that Henson possesses a copy practically convinces me that he has the original.
As I said before, a true copy could not have been made from mere instructions. And if I could
only get the original our troubles are all over."

"But I don't see how the ring has anything to do with--"

"With the family dishonour. No, I am coming to that. We arrive at the time, seven years ago,
when my aunt and Lord Littimer and Frank were all living happily at Littimer Castle. I told
you just now that the Carfax estates adjoin the Littimer property. The family is still extant
and powerful, but the feud between the two houses has never ceased. Of course, people don't
carry on a vendetta these peaceful days, but the families have not visited for centuries.

"There was a daughter Claire, whom Frank Littimer got to know by some means or other. But for
the silly family feud nobody would have noticed or cared, and there would have been an end
to the matter, because Frank has always loved my sister Chris, and we all knew that he would
marry her some of these days.

"Lord Littimer was furiously angry when he heard that Frank and Claire had got on speaking
terms. He imperiously forbade any further intercourse, and General Carfax did the same. The
consequence was that these two foolish young people elected to fancy themselves greatly aggrieved,
and so a kind of Romeo and Juliet, Montague and Capulet, business sprang up. There were secret
meetings, meetings entirely innocent, I believe, and a correspondence which became romantic
and passionate on Claire Carfax's side. The girl had fallen passionately in love with Frank,
whilst he regarded the thing as a mere pastime. He did not know then, indeed nobody seemed
to know till afterwards, that there was insanity in the poor girl's family, though Hatherly
Bell's friend, Dr. Heritage, who then had a practice near Littimer, warned us as well as he
could. Nobody dreamt how far the thing had gone.

"Then those letters of Claire's fell into Lord Littimer's hands. He found them and locked them
up in his safe. Frank, furious at being treated like a boy, swore to break open the safe and
get his letters back. He did so. And in the same safe, and in the same drawer, was Prince Rupert's
ring. When Lord Littimer missed the letters he missed the ring also and a large sum of money
in notes that he had just received from his tenants. Frank had stolen the ring and the money,
or so it seemed. I shall not soon forget that day.

"After taking the letters Frank had gone straight to Moreton Wells, and it looked for a little
time as if he had fled. Within an hour of the discovery of his loss Lord Littimer met Claire
Carfax on the cliffs. She was wearing Prince Rupert's ring. Frank had sent it to her, she said.
Anybody but a man in a furious passion would have seen that the girl was not responsible for
her actions. Littimer told her the true circumstances of the case. She laughed at him in a
queer, vacant way and fled through the woods. She went down to the beach, where she took a
boat and rowed herself out into the bay. A mile or more from the shore she jumped into the
water, and from that day to this nothing further has been seen of poor Claire Carfax."

"Or the ring, either?" David asked.

"Or the ring either. The same night Lady Littimer started after her boy. Littimer was going
to have Frank prosecuted. Lady Littimer fled to Longdean Grange, where Frank joined her. Then
my uncle turned up, and there was a scene. It is said that Lord Littimer struck his wife, but
Frank says that she fell against his gesticulating fist. Anyway, it was the same as a blow,
and Lady Littimer dropped on the floor, dragging a table down with her, flowers and china and
all. You have seen that table in Longdean Granges. Since then it has never been touched, the
place has never been swept or dusted or garnished. You have seen my aunt, and you know what
the shock has done for her--the shock and the steady persecutions of Reginald Henson."

"Who seems to be at the bottom of the whole trouble," said David. "But do you think that was
the real ring on the poor girl's finger?"

"I don't. I fancy Henson had a copy made for emergencies. It was he who sent the copy to Claire,
and it was the copy that Littimer saw on her hand. You see, directly Frank broke open that
safe, Henson, who was at the castle at the time, saw his opportunity--he could easily scheme
some way of making use of it. If that plot against Frank had failed he would have invented
another. And the unexpected suicide of Claire Carfax played into his hands. Henson has that
ring somewhere, and it will be our task to find it."

"And when we have done so?"

"Give it to Lord Littimer and tell him where we found it. And then we shall be rid of one of
the most pestilential rascals the world has ever seen. When you get back to Brighton I want
you to tell this story to Hatherly Bell."

"I will," David replied. "What a weird, fascinating story it is! And the sooner I am back the
better I shall be pleased. I wonder if our man is awake yet. If you will excuse me, I will
go up and see. Ah!"

There was the sound of somebody moving overhead.

CHAPTER XLV

ON THE TRAIL

At the same moment Williams came softly in. There was a grin of satisfaction on his face.

"The brute is fast asleep," he said. "I've just been in his room. He left the lamp burning,
and there is a lump on the side of his head as big as an ostrich egg. But he didn't mean to
go to sleep; he hasn't taken any of his clothes off. On the whole, sir, wouldn't it be better
for you to wake our man up and get him away?"

David was of the same opinion. Van Sneck was lying on the bed looking vacantly about him. He
seemed older and more worn, perhaps, because his beard and moustache were growing ragged and
dirty on his face. He pressed his hand to his head in a confused kind of way.

"I tell you I can't find it," he said; "the thing slipped out of my hand--a small thing like
that easily might. What's the good of making a fuss about a ring not worth £20? Search my pockets
if you like. What a murderous-looking dog you are when you're out of temper!"

All this in a vague, rambling way, in a slightly foreign accent. David touched him on the shoulder.

"Won't you come back with me to Brighton?" he said.

"Certainly," was the ready response; "you look a good sort of chap. I'll go anywhere you please.
Not that I've got a penny of money left. What a spree it has been. Who are you?"

"My name is Steel. I am David Steel, the novelist."

A peculiarly cunning look came over Van Sneck's face.

"I got your letter," he said. "And I came. It was after I had had that row with Henson. Henson
is a bigger scoundrel than I am, though you may not think it."

"I accept your statement implicitly," David said, drily.

"Well, he is. And I got your letter. And I called.... And you nearly killed me. And I dropped
it down in the corner of the conservatory."

"Dropped what?" David asked, sharply.

"Nothing," said Van Sneck. "What do you mean by talking about dropping things. I never dropped
anything in my life. I make others do that, eh, eh! But I can't remember anything. It just
comes back to me, and then there is a wheel goes round in my head.... Who are you?"

David gave up the matter as hopeless. This was emphatically a case for Bell. Once let him get
Van Sneck back to Brighton and Bell could do the rest.

"We'd better go," he said to Enid. "We are merely wasting time here."

"I suppose so," Enid said, thoughtfully. "All the same, I should greatly like to know what
it is that our friend Van Sneck dropped."

It was a long and tedious journey back to Brighton again, for the patient seemed to tire easily,
and he evinced a marked predilection for sitting by the roadside and singing. It was very late
before David reached his house. Bell beamed his satisfaction. Van Sneck, with a half-gleam
of recognition of his surroundings, and with a statement that he had been there before, lapsed
into silence. Bell produced a small phial in a chemist's wrapper and poured the contents into
a glass. With a curt command to drink he passed the glass over to Van Sneck.

The latter drank the small dose, and Bell carried him more or less to a ground-floor bedroom
behind the dining-room. There he speedily undressed his patient and got him into bed. Van Sneck
was practically fast asleep before his head had touched the pillow.

"I went out and got that dose with a view to eventualities," Bell explained. "I know pretty
well what is the matter with Van Sneck, and I propose to operate upon him, with the help of
Heritage. I've put him in my bed and locked the door. I shall sleep in the big armchair."

David flung himself into a big deck lounge and lighted a cigarette.

"My word, that has been a bit of a business," he said. "Pour me out a little whisky in one
of the long glasses and fill it up with soda.... Oh, that's better. I never felt so thirsty
in my life. I got Van Sneck away without Henson having the slightest suspicion that he was
there, and I had the satisfaction of giving Henson a smashing blow without his seeing me."

"Sounds like conjuring," Bell said, behind his cigar. "Explain yourself."

David went carefully into details. He told the story of Prince Rupert's ring to a listener
who followed him with the most flattering attention.

"Of course, all this is new to me," Bell said, presently, "though I knew the family well up
to that time. Depend upon it, Enid is right. Henson has got the ring. But how fortunately everything
seems to have turned out for the scoundrel."

"If a man likes to be an unscrupulous blackguard he can make use of all events," David said.
"But even Henson is not quite so clever as we take him to be. He has found out the trick we
played upon him over Chris Henson, but he hasn't the faintest idea that all this time he has
been living under the same roof at Littimer."

"The girl is a wonderful actress," Bell replied. "I only guessed who she was. If I hadn't known
as much as I do she would have deceived me. But Henson has shot his bolt. After we have operated
upon Van Sneck we shall be pretty near the truth. It is a great pull to have him in the house."

"And a nasty thing for Henson--"

"Who will find out before to-morrow is over. I feel pretty sure that this house is watched
carefully. Any firm of private detectives would do that, and they need be told nothing either.
I know that I was followed when I went to the chemist's to fetch that dose for our friend yonder.
Still, it is a sign that Henson is getting frightened."

"Why do you bring Heritage into this matter?" David asked.

"Well, for a variety of reasons. First of all, Heritage is an old friend of mine, and I take
a great interest in his case. I am going to give him a chance to recover his lost confidence,
and he is a splendid operator. Besides, I want to know why Henson has gone out of his way to
be so kind to Heritage. And, finally, Heritage was the family doctor of the Carfax people you
just mentioned before he went to practise in London. Let me once get Heritage round again,
and I shall be greatly disappointed if he does not give us a good deal of valuable information
regarding Reginald Henson."

"And Cross. What about him?"

"Oh, Cross will do as I ask him. Without egotism, he knows that the case is perfectly safe
in my hands. And if we care to look after Van Sneck, why, there will be one the less burden
in the hospital. What a funny business it is! Van Sneck gets nearly done to death under this
roof, and he comes back here to be cured again."

David yawned sleepily as he rose.

"Well, I've had enough of it for to-night," he said. "I'm dog-tried, and I must confess to
feeling sick of the Hensons and Littimers, and all their works."

"Including their friend, Miss Ruth Gates?" Bell said, slily. "Still, they have made pretty
good use of you, and I expect you will be glad to get back to your work again. At the same
time, you need not trouble your head for plots for many a day."

David admitted that the situation had its compensations, and went off to bed. Bell met him
the next day as fresh as if he had had a full night's rest, and vouchsafed the information
that the patient was as well as possible. He was cold and no longer feverish.

"In fact, he is ready for the operation at any time," he said. "I shall get Heritage here to
dinner, and we shall operate afterwards with electric light. It will be a good steadier for
Heritage's nerves, and the electric light is the best light of all for this business. If you
have got a few yards of spare flex from your reading-lamp I'll rig the thing up without troubling
your electrician. I can attach it to your study lamp."

"I've got what you want," David said. "Now come in to breakfast."

There was a pile of letters on the table, and on the top a telegram. It was a long message,
and Bell watched Steel's face curiously.

"From Littimer Castle," he suggested. "Am I right?"

"As usual," David cried. "My little scheme over that diamond star has worked magnificently.
Miss Chris tells me that she has--by Jove, Bell, just listen--she has solved the problem of
the cigar-case; she has found out the whole thing. She wants me to meet her in London to-morrow,
when she will tell me everything."

CHAPTER XLVI

LITTIMER'S EYES ARE OPENED

Lord Littimer sat on the terrace, shaded from the sun by an awning over his deck-chair. From
his expression he seemed to be at peace with all the world. His brown, eager face had lost
its usually keen, suspicious look; he smoked a cigarette lazily. Chris sat opposite him looking
as little like a hard-working secretary as possible.

As a matter of fact, there was nothing for her to do. Littimer had already tired of his lady
secretary idea, and had Chris not interested and amused him he would have found some means
to get rid of her before now.

But she did interest and amuse and puzzle him. There was something charmingly reminiscent about
the girl. She was like somebody he had once known and cared for, but for the life of him he
could not think who. And when curiosity sometimes got the better of good breeding Chris would
baffle him in the most engaging manner.

"Really, you are an exceedingly clever girl," he said.

"In fact, we are both exceedingly clever," Chris replied, coolly. "And yet nobody is ever quite
so clever as he imagines himself to be. Do you ever make bad mistakes, Lord Littimer?"

"Sometimes," Littimer said, with a touch of cynical humour. "For instance, I married some years
ago. That was bad. Then I had a son, which was worse."

"At one time you were fond of your family?"

"Well, upon my word, you are the only creature I ever met who has had the audacity to ask me
that question. Yes, I was very fond of my wife and my son, and, God help me, I am fond of them
still. I don't know why I talk to you like this."

"I do," Chris said, gently. "It is because unconsciously you yearn for sympathy. And you fancy
you are in no way to blame; you imagine that you acted in the only way consistent with your
position and dignity. You fancied that your son was a vulgar thief. And I am under the impression
that Lady Littimer had money."

"She had a large fortune," Littimer said, faintly. "Miss Lee, do you know that I have a great
mind to box your ears?"

Chris laughed unsteadily. She was horribly frightened, though she did not show it. She had
been waiting for days to catch Littimer in this mood. And she did not feel disposed to go back
now. The task must be accomplished some time.

"Lady Littimer was very rich," she went on, "and she was devoted to Frank, your son. Now, if
he had wanted a large sum of money very badly, and had gone to his mother, she would have given
it to him without the slightest hesitation?"

"What fond mother wouldn't?"

"I am obliged to you for conceding the point. Your son wanted money. and he robbed you when
he could have had anything for the asking from his mother."

"Sounds logical," Littimer said, flippantly. "Who had the money?"

"The same man who stole Prince Rupert's ring--Reginald Henson."

Littimer dropped his cigarette and sat upright in his chair. He was keen and alert enough now.
There were traces of agitation on his face.

"That is a serious accusation," he said.

"Not more serious than your accusation against your son," Chris retorted.

"Well, perhaps not," Littimer admitted. "But why do you take up Frank's cause in this way?
Is there any romance budding under my unconscious eyes?"

"Now you are talking nonsense," Chris said, with just a touch of colour in her cheeks. "I say,
and I am going to prove when the time comes, that Reginald Henson was the thief. I am sorry
to pain you, but it is absolutely necessary to go into these matters. When those foolish letters,
written by a foolish girl, fell into your hands, your son vowed that he would get them back,
by force if necessary. He made that rash speech in hearing of Reginald Henson. Henson probably
lurked about until he saw the robbery committed. Then it occurred to him that he might do a
little robbery on his own account, seeing that your son would get the credit of it. The safe
was open, and so he walked off with your ring and your money."

"My dear young lady, this is all mere surmise."

"So you imagine. At that time Reginald Henson had a kind of home which he was running at 218,
Brunswick Square, Brighton. Lady Littimer had just relinquished a similar undertaking there.
Previously Reginald Henson had a home at Huddersfield. Mind you, he didn't run either in his
own name, and he kept studiously in the background. But he was desperately hard up at the time
in consequence of his dissipation and extravagance, and the money he collected for his home
went into his own pocket. Then the police got wind of the matter, and Reginald Henson discreetly
disappeared from Brighton just in time to save himself from arrest for frauds there and at
Huddersfield. A member of the Huddersfield police is in a high position at Brighton. He has
recognised Reginald Henson as the man who was 'wanted' at Huddersfield. I don't know if there
will be a prosecution after all these years, but there you are."

"You are speaking from authority?"

"Certainly I am. Reginald Henson, as such, is not known to Inspector Marley, but I sent the
latter a photograph of Henson, and he returned it this morning with a letter to the effect
that it was the man the Huddersfield police were looking for."

"What an interesting girl you are," Littimer murmured. "Always so full of surprises. Our dear
Reginald is even a greater rascal than I took him for."

"Well, he took your money, and that saved him. He took your ring, a facsimile of which he had
made before for some ingenious purpose. It came with a vengeance. Then Claire Carfax committed
suicide, thanks to your indiscretion and folly."

"Go on. Rub it in. Never mind about my feelings."

"I'm not minding," Chris said, coolly. "Henson saw his game and played it boldly. I could not
have told you all this yesterday, but a letter I had this morning cleared the ground wonderfully.
Henson wanted to cause family differences, and he succeeded. Previously he got Dr. Bell out
of the way by means of the second Rembrandt. You can't deny there is a second Rembrandt now,
seeing that it is locked up in your safe. And where do you think Bell found it? Why, at 218,
Brunswick Square, Brighton, where Henson had to leave it seven years ago when the police were
so hot upon his trail. He was fearful lest you and Bell should come together again, and that
is why he came here at night to steal your Rembrandt. And yet you trusted that man blindly
all the time your own son was suffering on mere suspicions. How blind you have been!"

"I'm blind still," Littimer said, curtly. "My dear young lady, I admit that you are making
out a pretty strong case; indeed, I might go farther, and say that you have all my sympathy.
But what you say would not be taken as evidence in a court of law. If you produce that ring,
for instance--but that is at the bottom of the North Sea."

Chris took a small cardboard box from her pocket, and from thence produced a ring. It was a
ruby ring with black pearls on either side, and had some inscription inside.

"Look at that," she said. "It was sent to me to-day by my--by a friend of mine. It is the ring
which Reginald Henson shows to Lady Littimer when he wants money from her. It was lost by Henson
a night or two ago, and it fell into the hands of someone who is interested, like myself, in
the exposure and disgrace of Reginald Henson."

Littimer examined the ring carefully.

"It is a wonderfully good imitation," he said, presently.

"So I am told," said Chris. "So good that it must have actually been copied from the original.
Now, how could Henson have had a copy made unless he possessed the original? Will you be good
enough to answer me that question, Lord Littimer?"

Littimer could do no more than gaze at the ring in his hand for some time.

"I could have sworn--indeed, I am ready to swear--that the real ring was never in anybody's
possession but mine from the day that Frank was a year old till it disappeared. Of course,
scores of people had looked at it, Henson amongst the rest. But how did Claire Carfax--"

"Easily enough. Henson had a first copy made from a description. I don't know why; probably
we shall never know why. Probably he had it done when he knew that your son and Miss Carfax
had struck up a flirtation. It was he who forged a letter from Frank to Miss Carfax, enclosing
the ring. By that means he hoped to create mischief which, if it had been nipped in the bud,
could never have been traced to him. As matters turned out he succeeded beyond his wildest
expectations. He had got the real ring, too, which was likely to prove a very useful thing
in case he ever wanted to make terms. A second and a faithful copy was made--the copy you hold
in your hands--to hold temptingly over Lady Littimer's head when he wanted large sums of money
from her."

"The scoundrel! He gets the money, of course?"

"He does. To my certain knowledge he has had nearly £70,000. But the case is in good hands.
You have only to wait a few days longer and the man will be exposed. Already, as you see, I
have wound his accomplice, the Reverend James Merritt, round my finger. Of course, the idea
of getting up a bazaar has all been nonsense. I am only waiting for a little further information,
and then Merritt will feel the iron hand under the velvet glove. Unless I am greatly mistaken,
Merritt can tell us where Prince Rupert's ring is. Already Van Sneck is in our grasp."

"Van Sneck! Is he in England?"

"He is. Did you read that strange case of a man being found half murdered in the conservatory
of Mr. Steel, the novelist, in Brighton? Well, that was Van Sneck. But I can't tell you any
more at present. You must wait and be content."

"Tell me one thing, and I will wait as long as you like. Who are you?"

Chris shook her head, merrily. A great relief had been taken off her mind. She had approached
a delicate and difficult matter, and she had succeeded beyond her expectations. That she had
shaken the man opposite her sorely was evident from his face. The hardness had gone from his
eyes, his lips were no longer bitter and cynical.

"I may have been guilty of a great wrong," he murmured. "All these years I may have been living
under a misapprehension. And you have told me what I should never have suspected, although
I have never had a high opinion of my dear Reginald. Where is my wife now?"

"She is still at Longdean Grange. You will notice a great change in her, a great and sorrowful
change. But it is not too late to--"

Littimer rose and went swiftly towards the house. At any other time the action would have been
rude, but Chris fully understood. She had touched the man to the bottom of his soul, and he
was anxious to hide his emotion.

"Poor man," Chris murmured. "His hard cynicism conceals a deal of suffering. But the suffering
is past; we have only to wait patiently for daylight now."

Chris rose restlessly in her turn and strolled along the terrace to her favourite spot looking
over the cliffs. There was nobody about; it was very hot there. The girl removed her glasses
and pushed back the banded hair from her forehead. She had drawn a photograph from her pocket
which she was regarding intently. She was quite heedless of the fact that somebody was coming
along the cliffs towards her. She raised the photograph to her lips and kissed it tenderly.

"Poor Frank," she murmured. "Poor fellow, so weak and amiable. And yet with all your faults--"

Chris paused, and a little cry escaped her lips. Frank Littimer, looking very wild and haggard,
stood before her.

"I beg your pardon," he began. "I came to see you because--"

The words died away. He staggered back, pale as the foam beating on the rocks below, his hand
clutching at his left side as if there was some mortal pain there.

"Chris," he murmured. "Chris, Chris, Chris! And they told me--"

He could say no more, he could only stand there trembling from head to foot, fearful lest his
mocking senses were making sport of him. Surely, it was some beautiful vision he had come upon.
With one unsteady hand he touched the girl's sleeve; he pressed her warm red cheeks with his
fingers, and with that touch his manhood came back to him.

"Darling," he whispered, eagerly. "Dearest, what does it mean?"

Chris stood there, smiling rosily. She had not meant to betray herself; fate had done that
for her, and she was not sorry. It was a cruel trick they had played upon Frank, but it had
been necessary. Chris held out her hand with a loving little gesture.

"Are you not going to kiss me, dear?" she asked, sweetly.

Frank Littimer needed no further invitation. It was quiet and secluded there, and nobody could
possibly see them. With a little sigh Chris felt her lover's arms about her and his kisses
warm on her lips. The clever, brilliant girl had disappeared; a pretty, timid creature stood
in her place for the time. For the moment Frank Littimer could do no more than gaze into her
eyes with rapture and amazement. There was plenty of time for explanations.

"Let us go into the arbour," Frank suggested. "No, I am not going to release your hand for
a moment. If I do you will fly away again. Chris, dear Chris, why did you serve me so?"

"It was absolutely necessary," Chris replied. "It was necessary to deceive Reginald Henson.
But it was hard work the other night."

"You mean when I came here and--"

"Tried to steal the Rembrandt. Oh, you needn't explain. I know that you had to come. And we
have Henson in our power at last."

"I am afraid that is too good to be true. But tell me everything from the beginning. I am as
dazed and confused as a tired man roused out of a sound sleep."

Chris proceeded to explain from the beginning of all things. It was an exceedingly interesting
and exciting narrative to Frank Littimer, and he followed it carefully. He would have remained
there all day listening to the music of Chris's voice and looking into her eyes. He had come
there miserable and downcast to ask a question, and behold he had suddenly found all the joy
and sweetness of existence.

"And so you have accomplished all this?" he said, at length. "What a glorious adventure it
must have been, and how clever you are! So is Mr. David Steel. Many a time I have tried to
break through the shackles, but Reginald has always been too strong for me."

"Well, he's shot his bolt, now," Chris smiled. "I have just been opening your father's eyes."

Frank laughed as he had not laughed for a long time.

"Do you mean to say he doesn't know who you are?" he asked.

"My dear boy, he hasn't the faintest idea. Neither had you the faintest idea when I made you
a prisoner the other night. But he will know soon."

"God grant that he may," Frank said, fervently.

He bent over and pressed his lips passionately to those of Chris. When he looked up again Lord
Littimer was standing before the arbour, wearing his most cynical expression.

"He does know," he said. "My dear young lady, you need not move. The expression of sweet confusion
on your face is infinitely pleasing. I did not imagine that one so perfectly self-possessed
could look like that. It gives me quite a nice sense of superiority. And you, sir?"

The last words were uttered a little sternly. Frank had risen. His face was pale, his manner
resolute and respectful.

"I came here to ask Miss Lee a question, sir, not knowing, of course, who she was."

"And she betrayed herself, eh?"

"I am sorry if I have done so," Chris said, "but I should not have done so unless I had been
taken by surprise. It was so hot that I had taken off my glasses and put my hair up. Then Frank
came up and surprised me."

"You have grown an exceedingly pretty girl, Chris," Littimer said, critically. "Of course,
I recognise you now. You are nicer-looking than Miss Lee."

Chris put on her glasses and rolled her hair down resolutely.

"You will be good enough to understand that I am going to continue Miss Lee for the present,"
she said. "My task is a long way from being finished yet. Lord Littimer, you are not going
to send Frank away?"

Littimer looked undecided.

"I don't know," he said. "Frank, I have heard a great deal to-day to cause me to think that
I might have done you a grave injustice. And yet I am not sure.... In any case, it would be
bad policy for you to remain here. If the news came to the ears of Reginald Henson it might
upset Miss Machiavelli's plans."

"That had not occurred to me for the moment," Chris exclaimed. "On the whole, Frank had better
not stay. But I should dearly like to see you two shake hands."

Frank Littimer made an involuntary gesture, and then he drew back.

"I'd--I'd rather not," he said. "At least, not until my character has been fully vindicated.
Heaven knows I have suffered enough for a boyish indiscretion."

"And you have youth on your side," Littimer said gravely. "Whereas I--"

"I know, I know. It has been terrible all round. I took those letters of poor Claire's away
because they were sacred property, and for no eye but mine--"

"No eye but yours saw them. I was going to send them back again. I wish I had."

"Aye, so do I. I took them and destroyed them. But I take Heaven to witness that I touched
nothing else besides. If it was the last word I ever uttered--what is that fellow doing here
in that garb? It is one of Henson's most disreputable tools."

Merritt was coming across the terrace. He paused suspiciously as he caught sight of Frank,
but Chris, with a friendly wave of her hand, encouraged him to come on.

"It is all part of the game," she said. "I sent for our friend Merritt, but when I did so I
had no idea that Frank would be present. Since you are here you might just as well stay and
hear a little more of the strange doings of Reginald Henson. The time has come to let Merritt
know that I am not the clever lady burglar he takes me for."

Merritt came up doggedly. Evidently the presence of Frank Littimer disturbed him. Chris motioned
him to a seat, quite gaily.

"You are very punctual," she said. "I told you I wanted you to give Lord Littimer and myself
a little advice and assistance. In the first place we want to know where that gun-metal diamond-mounted
cigar-case, at present for sale in Rutter's window, came from. We want to know how it got there
and who sold it to Rutter's people. Also we want to know why Van Sneck purchased a similar
cigar-case from Walen's, of Brighton."

Merritt's heavy jaw dropped, his face turned a dull yellow. He looked round helplessly for
some means of escape, and then relinquished the idea with a sigh.

"Done," he said. "Clear done. And by a woman, too! A smart woman, I admit, but a woman all
the same. And yet why didn't you--"

Merritt paused, lost in the contemplation of a problem beyond his intellectual strength.

"You have nothing to fear," Chris said, with a smile. "Tell us all you know and conceal nothing,
and you will be free when we have done with you."

Merritt wiped his dry lips with the back of his hand.

"I come peaceable," he said, hoarsely. "And I'm going to tell you all about it."

CHAPTER XLVII

THE TRACK BROADENS

There was an uneasy grin on Merritt's face, a suggestion that he did not altogether trust those
around him. Hard experience in the ways of the wicked had taught him the folly of putting his
confidence in anyone. Just for the moment the impulse to shuffle was upon him.

"If I say nothing, then I can't do any harm," he remarked, sapiently. "Best, on the whole,
for me to keep my tongue between my teeth."

"Mr. Henson is a dangerous man to cross," Chris suggested.

"He is that," Merritt agreed. "You don't know him as I do."

Chris conceded the point, though she had her own views on that matter. Lord Littimer had seated
himself on the broad stone bench along the terrace, whence he was watching the scene with the
greatest zest and interest.

"You imagine Mr. Henson to be a friend of yours?" Chris asked.

Merritt nodded and grinned. So long as he was useful to Henson he was fairly safe.

"Mr. Merritt," Chris asked, suddenly, "have you ever heard of Reuben Taylor?"

The effect of the question was electrical. Merritt's square jaw dropped with a click, there
was fear in the furtive eyes that he cast around him.

"I read about Reuben Taylor in one of our very smart papers lately," Chris went on. "It appears
that Mr. Taylor is a person who nobody seems to have seen, but who from time to time does a
vast service to the community at large. He is not exactly a philanthropist, for he is well
rewarded for his labours both by the police and his clients. Suppose Mr. Merritt here had done
some wrong."

"A great effort of imagination," Littimer murmured, gently.

"Had done something wrong, and an enemy or quondam friend wants to 'put him away.' I believe
that is the correct expression. In that case he does not go to the police himself, because
he is usually of a modest and retiring disposition. No, he usually puts down a few particulars
in the way of a letter and sends it to Reuben Taylor under cover at a certain address. Is not
that quite correct, Mr. Merritt?"

"Right," Merritt said, hoarsely. "Some day we shall find out who Taylor is, and--"

"Never mind that. Do you know that the night before your friend Mr. Henson left the Castle
he placed in the post-bag a letter addressed to Mr. Reuben Taylor? In view of what I read recently
in the paper alluded to the name struck me as strange. Now, Mr. Merritt, is it possible that
letter had anything to do with you?"

Merritt did not appear to hear the question. His eyes were fixed on space; there was a sanguine
clenching of his fists as if they had been about the throat of a foe.

"If I had him here," he murmured. "If I only had him here! He's given me away. After all that
I have done for him he's given me away."

His listeners said nothing; they fully appreciated the situation. Merritt's presence at the
Castle was both dangerous and hazardous for Henson.

"If you went away to-day you might be safe?" Chris suggested.

"Aye, I might," Merritt said, with a cunning grin in his eyes. "If I had a hundred pounds."

Chris glanced significantly at Littimer, who nodded and took up the parable.

"You shall have the money," he said. "And you shall go as soon as you have answered Miss Lee's
questions."

Merritt proclaimed himself eager to say anything. But Merritt's information proved to be a
great deal less than she had anticipated.

"I stole that picture," Merritt confessed. "I was brought down here on purpose. Henson sent
to London and said he had a job for me. It was to get the picture from Dr. Bell. I didn't ask
any questions, but set to work at once."

"Did you know what the picture was?" Chris asked.

"Bless you, yes; it was a Rembrandt engraving. Why, it was I who in the first place stole the
first Rembrandt from his lordship yonder, in Amsterdam. I got into his lordship's sitting-room
by climbing down a spout, and I took the picture."

"But the other belonged to Van Sneck," said Chris.

"It did; and Van Sneck had to leave Amsterdam hurriedly, being wanted by the police. Henson
told me that Van Sneck had a second copy of 'The Crimson Blind,' and I had to burgle that as
well; and I had to get into Dr. Bell's room and put the second copy in his portmanteau. Why?
Ask somebody wiser than me. It was all some deep game of Henson's, only you may be pretty sure
he didn't tell me what the game was. I got my money and returned to London, and till pretty
recently I saw no more of Henson."

"But you came into the game again," said Littimer.

"Quite lately, your lordship. I went down to Brighton. I was told as Bell had got hold of the
second Rembrandt owing to Henson's carelessness, and that he was pretty certain to bring it
here. He did bring it here, and I tried to stop him on the way, and he half killed me."

"Those half measures are so unsatisfactory," Littimer smiled.

Merritt grinned. He fully appreciated the humour of the remark.

"That attack and the way it was brought about were suggested by Henson," he went on. "If it
failed, I was to come up to the Castle here without delay and tell Henson so. I came, and he
covered my movements whilst I pinched the picture. I had been told that the thing was fastened
to the wall, but a pair of steel pliers made no odds to that. I took the picture home, and
two days later it vanished. And that's all I know about it."

"Lame and impotent conclusion!" said Littimer.

"Wait a moment," Chris cried. "You found the diamond star which you pawned--"

"At your request, miss. Don't go for to say as you've forgotten that."

"I have forgotten nothing," Chris said, with a smile. "I want to know about the cigar-case."

Merritt looked blankly at the speaker. Evidently this was strange ground to him.

"I don't know anything about that," he said. "What sort of a cigar-case?"

"Gun-metal set with diamonds. The same case or a similar one to that purchased by Van Sneck
from Walen's in Brighton. Come, rack your brains a bit. Did you ever see anything of Van Sneck
about the time of his accident? You know where he is?"

"Yes. He's in the County Hospital at Brighton, He was found in Mr. Steel's house nearly dead.
It's coming back to me now. A gun-metal cigar-case set in diamonds. That would be a dull thing
with sparkling stones all over it. Of course! Why, I saw it in Van Sneck's hands the day he
was assaulted. I recollect asking him where he got it from, and he said that it was a present
from Henson. He was going off to meet Henson then by the corner of Brunswick Square."

"Did you see Van Sneck again that day?"

"Later on in the afternoon. We went into the Continental together. Van Sneck had been drinking."

"You did not see the cigar-case again?"

"No. Van Sneck gave me a cigar which he took from the common sort of case that they give away
with seven cigars for a shilling. I asked him if he had seen Henson, and he said that he had.
He seemed pretty full up against Henson, and said something about the latter having played
him a scurvy trick and he didn't like it, and that he'd be even yet. I didn't take any notice
of that, because it was no new thing for Henson to play it low down on his pals."

"Did anything else happen at that interview?" Chris asked, anxiously. "Think! The most trivial
thing to you would perhaps be of the greatest importance to us."

Merritt knitted his brows thoughtfully.

"We had a rambling kind of talk," he said. "It was mostly Van Sneck who talked. I left him
at last because he got sulky over my refusal to take a letter for him to Kemp Town."

"Indeed! Do you recollect where that letter was addressed to?"

"Well, of course I've forgotten the address; but it was to some writing man--Stone, or Flint, or--"

"Steel, perhaps?"

"That's the name! David Steel, Esq. Van Sneck wanted me to take that letter, saying as it would
put a spoke in Reginald Henson's wheel, but I didn't see it. A boy took the letter at last."

"Did you see an answer come back?"

"Yes, some hour or so later. Van Sneck seemed to be greatly pleased with
it. He said he was going to make an evening call late that night that
would cook Henson's goose. And he was what you call gassy about
it: said he had told Henson plump and plain what he was going to do, and
    that he was not afraid of Henson or any man breathing."

Chris asked no further questions for the moment. The track was getting clearer. She had, of
course, heard by this time of the letter presumedly written by David Steel to the injured man
Van Sneck, which had been found in his pocket by Dr. Cross. The latter had been written most
assuredly in reply to the note Merritt had just alluded to, but certainly not written by David
Steel. Who, then, seeing that it was Steel's private note-paper? The more Chris thought over
this the more she was puzzled. Henson could have told her, of course, but nobody else.

Doubtless, Henson had started on his present campaign with a dozen different schemes. Probably
one of them called for a supply of Steel's note-paper. Somebody unknown had procured the paper,
as David Steel had testimony in the form of his last quarter's account. The lad engaged by
Van Sneck to carry the letter from the Continental to 15, Downend Terrace, must have been intercepted
by Henson or somebody in Henson's pay and given the forged reply, a reply that actually brought
Van Sneck to Steel's house on the night of the great adventure. Henson had been warned by the
somewhat intoxicated Van Sneck what he was going to do, and he had prepared accordingly.

A sudden light came to Chris. Henson had found out part of their scheme. He knew that David
Steel would be probably away from home on the night in question. In that case, having made
certain of this, and having gained a pretty good knowledge of Steel's household habits, what
easier than to enter Steel's house in his absence, wait for Van Sneck, and murder him then
and there?

It was not a pretty thought, and Chris recoiled from it.

"How could Van Sneck have got into Steel's house?" she asked. "I know for a fact that Mr. Steel
was not at home, and that he closed the door carefully behind him when he left the house that
night."

Merritt grinned at the simplicity of the question. It was not worthy of the brilliant lady
who had so far got the better of him.

"Latch-keys are very much alike," he said. "Give me three latch-keys, and I'll open ninety
doors out of a hundred. Give me six latch-keys of various patterns, and I'll guarantee to open
the other ten."

"I had not thought of that," Chris admitted. "Did Van Sneck happen by any chance to tell you
what he and Mr. Henson had been quarrelling about?"

"He was too excited to tell anything properly. He was jabbering something about a ring all
the time."

"What sort of a ring?"

"That I can't tell you, miss. I fancy it was a ring that Van Sneck had made."

"Made! Is Van Sneck a working jeweller or anything of that kind?"

"He's one of the cleverest fellows with his fingers that you ever saw. Give him a bit of old
gold and a few stones and he'll make you a bracelet that will pass for antique. Half the so-called
antiques picked up on the Continent have been faked by Van Sneck. There was that ring, for
instance, that Henson had, supposed to be the property of some swell he called Prince Rupert.
Why, Van Sneck copied it for him in a couple of days, till you couldn't tell t'other from which."

Chris choked the cry that rose to her lips. She glanced at Littimer, who had dropped his glass,
and was regarding Merritt with a kind of frozen, pallid curiosity. Chris signalled Littimer
to speak. She had no words of her own for the present.

"How long ago was that?" Littimer asked, hoarsely.

"About seven years, speaking from memory. There were two copies made--one from description.
The other was much more faithful. Perhaps there were three copies, but I forget now. Van Sneck
raved over the ring; it might have been a mine of gold for the fuss he made over it."

Littimer asked no further questions. But from the glance he gave first to Chris and then to
his son the girl could see that he was satisfied. He knew at last that he had done his son
a grave injustice--he knew the truth. It seemed to Chris that years had slipped suddenly from
his shoulders. His face was still grave and set; his eyes were hard; but the gleam in them
was for the man who had done him this terrible injury.

"I fancy we are wandering from the subject," Chris said, with commendable steadiness. "We will
leave the matter of the ring out of the question. Mr. Merritt, I don't propose to tell you
too much, but you can help me a little farther on the way. That cigar-case you saw in Van Sneck's
possession passed to Mr. Henson. By him, or by somebody in his employ, it was substituted for
a precisely similar case intended for a present to Mr. Steel. The substitution has caused Mr.
Steel a great deal of trouble."

"Seeing as Van Sneck was found half dead in Mr. Steel's house, and seeing as he claimed the
cigar-case, what could be proved to be Van Sneck's, I'm not surprised," Merritt grinned.

"Then you know all about it?"

"Don't know anything about it," Merritt growled, doggedly. "I guessed that. When you said as
the one case had been substituted for the other, it don't want a regiment of schoolmasters
to see where the pea lies. What you've got to do now is to find Mr. Steel's case."

"I have already found it, as I hinted to you. It is at Rutter's, in Moreton Wells. It was sold
to them by the gentleman who had given up smoking. I want you to go into Moreton Wells with
me to-day and see if you can get at the gentleman's identity."

Mr. Merritt demurred. It was all very well for Chris, he pointed out in his picturesque language.
She had her little lot of fish to fry, but at the same time he had to draw his money and be
away before the police were down upon him. If Miss Lee liked to start at once--

"I am ready at any moment," Chris said. "In any case you will have to go to Moreton Wells,
and I can give you a little more information on the way."

"You had better go along, Frank," Littimer suggested, under his breath. "I fervently hope now
that the day is not far distant when you can return altogether, but for the present your presence
is dangerous. We must give that rascal Henson no cause for suspicion."

"You are quite right," Frank replied. "And I'd like to--to shake hands now, dad."

Littimer put out his hand, without a word. The cool, cynical man of the world would have found
it difficult to utter a syllable just then. When he looked up again he was smiling.

"Go along," he said. "You're a lucky fellow, Frank. That girl's one in a million."

A dog-cart driven by Chris brought herself and her companion into Moreton Wells in an hour,
Frank had struck off across country in the direction of the nearest station. The appearance
of himself in More ton Wells on the front of a dog-cart from the Castle would have caused a
nine days' wonder.

"Now, what I want to impress upon you is this," said Chris. "Mr. Steel's cigar-case was stolen
and one belonging to Van Sneck substituted for it. The stolen one was returned to the shop
from which it was purchased almost immediately, so soon, indeed, that the transaction was never
entered on the books. We are pretty certain that Reginald Henson did that, and we know that
he is at the bottom of the mystery. But to prevent anything happening, and to prevent our getting
the case back again, Henson had to go farther. The case must be beyond our reach. Therefore,
I decline to believe that it was a mere coincidence that took a stranger into Lockhart's directly
after Henson had been there to look at some gun-metal cigar-cases set in diamonds. The stranger
purchased the case, and asked for it to be sent to the Metropole to 'John Smith.' With the
hundreds of letters and visitors there it would be almost impossible to trace the case or the man."

"Lockhart's might help you?"

"They have as far as they can. The cigar-case was sold to a tall American. Beyond that it is
impossible to go."

A meaning smile dawned on Merritt's face.

"They might have taken more notice of the gentleman at Rutter's," he said, "being a smaller
shop. I'm going to admire that case and pretend it belonged to a friend of mine."

"I want you to try and buy it for me," Chris said, quietly.

Rutter's was reached at length, and after some preliminaries the cigar-case was approached.
Merritt took it up, with a well-feigned air of astonishment.

"Why, this must have belonged to my old friend, B--," he exclaimed. "It's not new?"

"No, sir," the assistant explained. "We purchased it from a gentleman who stayed for a day
or two here at the Lion, a friend of Mr. Reginald Henson."

"A tall man?" said Merritt, tentatively. "Long, thin beard and slightly marked with small-pox?
Gave the name of Rawlins?"

"That's the gentleman, sir. Perhaps you may like to purchase the case?"

The purchase was made in due course, and together Chris and her queer companion left the shop.

"Rawlins is an American swindler of the smartest type," said Merritt. "If you get him in a
corner ask him what he and Henson were doing in America some two years ago. Rawlins is in this
little game for certain. But you ought to trace him by means of the Lion people. Oh, lor'!"

Merritt slipped back into an entry as a little, cleanshaven man passed along the street. His
eyes had a dark look of fear in them.

"They're after me," he said, huskily. "That was one of them. Excuse me, miss."

Merritt darted away and flung himself into a passing cab. His face was dark with passion; the
big veins stood out on his forehead like cords.

"The cur," he snarled--"the mean cur! I'll be even with him yet. If I can only catch the 4.48
at the Junction I'll be in London before them. And I'll go down to Brighton, if I have to foot
it all the way, and, once I get there, look to yourself, Reginald Henson. A hundred pounds
is a good sum to go on with. I'll kill that cur--I'll choke the life out of him. Cabby, if
you get to the Junction by a quarter to five I'll give you a quid."

"The quid's as good as mine, sir," cabby said, cheerfully. "Get along, lass."

Meanwhile Chris had returned thoughtfully to the dog-cart, musing over the last discovery.
She felt quite satisfied with her afternoon's work. Then a new idea struck her. She crossed
over to the post-office and dispatched a long telegram thus:--

"To David Steel, 15, Downend Terrace, Brighton.

"Go to Walen's and ascertain full description of the tentative customer who suggested the firm
should procure gun-metal cigar-case for him to look at. Ask if he was a tall man with a thin
beard and a face slightly pock-marked. Then telephone result to me here. Quite safe, as Henson
is away. Great discoveries to tell you.--CHRISTABEL LEE."

Chris paid for her telegram and then drove thoughtfully homeward.

CHAPTER XLVIII

WHERE IS RAWLINS?

Lord Littimer was greatly interested in all that Chris had to say. The whole story was confided
to him after dinner. Over his coffee on the terrace he offered many shrewd suggestions.

"There is one thing wherein you have made a mistake," he said. "And that is in your idea that
Henson changed those cigar-cases after Miss Gates laid your votive offering on Steel's doorstep."

"How else could it be done?" Chris said.

"My dear, the thing is quite obvious. You have already told me that Henson was quite aware
what you were going to do--at least that he knew you were going to consult Steel. Also he knew
that you were going to make Steel a present, and by a little judicious eavesdropping he contrived
to glean all about the cigar-case. The fellow has already admitted to your sister that he listened.
How long was that before you bought the cigar-case?"

"I should say it might have been a week. We had inquiries to make, you know. In the first instance
we never dreamt of offering Mr. Steel money. I blush to think of that folly."

"Well, blush a little later on when you have more time. Then Henson had a week to work out
his little scheme. He knows all about the cigar-case; he knows where it is going to be bought.
Then he goes to Lockhart's and purchases some trifle in the shape of a cigar-case; he has it
packed up, yellow string and all. This is his dummy. By keeping his eyes open he gets the chance
he is waiting for. Ruth Gates hadn't the faintest idea that he knew anything when she left
that case the day she bought it within reach of Henson. He gets her out of the way for a minute
or two, he unties the parcel, and places the Van Sneck case in it. No, by Jove, he needn't
have bought anything from Lockhart's at all. I only thought of that to account for the yellow
string and the stamped paper that Lockhart's people use. He first takes one case out of the
parcel and replaces it with another, and there you are. You may depend upon it that was the
way in which it was done."

The more Chris thought over the matter the more certain she felt that such was the case. Like
most apparently wonderful things, the explanation was absurdly simple. A conjurer's most marvellous
tricks are generally the easiest.

"How foolish of us not to have thought of this before," Chris said, thoughtfully. "At any rate,
we know all about it now. And we know who bought the cigar-case so promptly returned to Lockhart's
by Henson. I should like to see this Rawlins."

"You have got to find him first," said Littimer.

"I'm going into Moreton Wells again to-morrow to make inquiries," said Chris.

But she was saved the trouble. Once more the ever-blessed telephone stood her in good stead.
She was just on the point of starting for Moreton Wells when Steel called her up. Chris recognised
him with a thrill of eager pleasure.

"You need not be afraid," she said. "You can speak quite freely. How is Van Sneck?"

"Very queer," David responded. "Bell hoped to have operated upon him before this, but such
a course has not been deemed quite prudent. The day after to-morrow it will be, I expect. Henson
has found out where Van Sneck is."

"Indeed. Has he been to see you?"

"He has been more than once on all kinds of ingenious pretences. But I didn't call you up to
tell you this. We have been making inquiries at Walen's, Marley and myself. The time has come
now to let Marley behind the scenes a bit."

"Did Walen's people know anything about the tall American?"

"Oh, yes. A tall American with a thin beard and a faint suggestion of small-pox called about
a week before the great adventure, and asked to see some gun-metal diamond-mounted cigar-cases--like
the one in Lockhart's window."

"Did he really volunteer that remark?"

"He did, saying also that Lockhart's were too dear. Walen's hadn't got what he wanted, but
they promised to get some cases out of stock, which meant that they would go to the same wholesale
house as Lockhart's and get some similar cases. As a matter of fact, one of Walen's assistants
was sent round to study the case in Lockhart's window. The cases were procured on the chance
of a sale, but the American never turned up again. No notice was taken of this, because such
things often happen to shopkeepers."

"And this was about a week before the night of the great adventure?"

"Yes. Wait a bit. I have not quite finished yet. Now, once I had ascertained this, an important
fact becomes obvious. The American didn't want a cigar-case at all."

"But he subsequently purchased the one returned to Lockhart's shop."

"That remark does not suggest your usual acumen. The American was preparing the ground for
Van Sneck to purchase with a view to a subsequent exchange. You have not fully grasped the
vileness of this plot yet. I went to Lockhart's and succeeded in discovering that the purchaser
of the returned case was a tall American, quite of the pattern I expected. Then I managed to
get on to the trail at the Metropole here. They recollected when I could describe the man;
they also recollected the largeness of his tips. Then I traced my man to the Lion at Moreton
Wells, where he had obviously gone to see Reginald Henson. From the Lion our friend went to
the Royal at Scarsdale Sands, where he is staying at present."

"Under the name of John Smith?"

"I suppose so, seeing that all the inquiries under that name were successful. If you would
like me to come up and interview the man for you--"

"I should like you to do nothing of the kind," Chris said. "You are more useful in Brighton,
and I am going to interview Mr. John Smith Rawlins for myself. Good-bye. Just one moment. For
the next few days my address will be the Royal Hotel, Scarsdale Sands."

Chris countermanded the dog-cart she had ordered and repaired to the library, where Littimer
was tying some trout-flies behind a cloud of cigarette smoke.

"Thought you had gone to Moreton Wells," he said. "Been at the telephone again? A pretty nice
bill I shall have to pay for all those long messages of yours."

"Mr. Steel pays this time," Chris said, gaily. "He has just given me some information that
obviates the necessity of going into the town. My dear uncle, you want a change. You look tired
and languid--"

"Depression of spirits and a disinclination to exercise after food. Also a morbid craving for
seven to eight hours' sleep every night. What's the little game?"

"Bracing air," Chris laughed. "Lord Littimer and his secretary, Miss Lee, are going to spend
a few days at Scarsdale Sands, Royal Hotel, to recuperate after their literary labours."

"The air here being so poor and enervating," Littimer said, cynically. "In other words, I suppose
you have traced Rawlins to Scarsdale Sands?"

"How clever you are," said Chris, admiringly. "Walen's American and Lockhart's American, with
the modest pseudonym of John Smith, are what Mrs. Malaprop would call three single gentlemen
rolled into one. We are going to make the acquaintance of John Smith Rawlins."

"Oh, indeed, and when do we start, may I ask?"

Chris responded coolly that she hoped to get away in the course of the day. With a great show
of virtuous resignation Lord Littimer consented.

"I have always been the jest of fortune," he said, plaintively; "but I never expected to be
dragged all over the place at my time of life by a girl who is anxious to make me acquainted
with the choicest blackguardism in the kingdom. I leave my happy home, my cook, and my cellar,
for at least a week of hotel living. Well, one can only die once."

Chris bustled away to make the necessary arrangements. Some few hours later Lord Littimer was
looking out from his luxurious private sitting-room with the assumption of being a martyr.
He and Chris were dressed for dinner; they were waiting for the bell to summon them to the
dining-room. When they got down at length they found quite a large number of guests already
seated at the many small tables.

"Your man here?" Littimer asked, languidly.

Chris indicated two people seated in a window opposite.

"There!" she whispered. "There he is. And what a pretty girl with him!"

CHAPTER XLIX

A CHEVALIER OF FORTUNE

Littimer put up his glass and gazed with apparent vacancy in the direction of the window. He
saw a tall man with a grey beard and hair; a man most immaculately dressed and of distinctly
distinguished appearance. Littimer was fain to admit that he would have taken him for a gentleman
under any circumstances. In manner, style, and speech he left nothing to be desired.

"That chap has a fortune in his face and accent," Littimer said. "'Pon my word, he is a chance
acquaintance that one would ask to dinner without the slightest hesitation. And the girl--"

"Is his daughter," Chris said. "The likeness is very strong."

"It is," Littimer admitted. "A singularly pretty, refined girl, with quite the grand air. It
is an air that mere education seldom gives; but it seems to have done so in yonder case. And
how fond they seem to be of one another! Depend upon it, Chris, whatever that man may be his
daughter knows nothing of it. And yet you tell me that the police--"

"Well, never mind the police, now. We can get Mr. Steel to tell Marley all about 'John Smith'
if we can't contrive to force his hand without. But with that pretty girl before my eyes I
shouldn't like to do anything harsh. Up till now I have always pictured the typical educated
scoundrel as a man who was utterly devoid of feelings of any kind."

Dinner proceeded quietly enough, Chris having eyes for hardly anything else beyond the couple
in the window. She rose presently, with a little gasp, and hastily lifted a tankard of iced
water from the table. The girl opposite her had turned pale and her dark head had drooped forward.

"I hope it is not serious," said Chris. "Drink a little of this; it is iced."

"And they told me they had no ice in the house," the man Rawlins muttered. "A little of this,
Grace. It is one of her old fainting fits. Ah, that is better."

The man Rawlins spoke with the tenderest solicitude. The look of positive relief on his face
as his daughter smiled at him told of a deep devotion and affection for the girl. Chris, looking
on, was wondering vaguely whether or not she had made a mistake.

"Lord Littimer obtained our ice," she said. "Pray keep this. Oh, yes, that is Lord Littimer
over there. I am his secretary."

Littimer strolled across himself and murmured his condolences. A little time later and the
four of them were outside in the verandah taking ices together. Rawlins might have been, and
no doubt was, a finished scoundrel, but there was no question as to his fascinating manner
and his brilliant qualities as a conversationalist. A man of nerve too, and full of resources.
All the same, Littimer was asking himself and wondering who the man really was. By birth he
must have been born a gentleman, Littimer did not doubt for a moment.

But there was one soft spot in the man, and that was his love for his daughter. For her sake
he had been travelling all over the world for years; for years he had despaired of seeing her
live to womanhood. But she was gradually growing better; indeed, if she had not walked so far
to-day nothing would have happened. All the time that Rawlins was talking his eyes were resting
tenderly on his daughter. The hard, steely look seemed to have gone out of them altogether.

Altogether a charming and many-sided rascal, Littimer thought. He was fond, as he called it,
of collecting types of humanity, and here was a new and fascinating specimen. The two men talked
together till long after dark, and Rawlins never betrayed himself. He might have been an Ambassador
or Cabinet Minister unbending after a long period of heavy labour.

Meanwhile Chris had drawn Grace Rawlins apart from the others. The girl was quiet and self-contained,
but evidently a lady. She seemed to have but few enthusiasms, but one of them was for her father.
He was the most wonderful man in the world, the most kind and considerate. He was very rich;
indeed, it was a good thing, or she would never have been able to see so much of the world.
He had given up nearly the whole of his life to her, and now she was nearly as strong as other
girls. Chris listened in a dazed, confused kind of way. She had not expected anything like
this; and when had Rawlins found time for those brilliant predatory schemes that she had heard of?

"Well, what do you think of them?" Littimer asked, when at length he and Chris were alone.
"I suppose it isn't possible that you and I have made a mistake?"

"I'm afraid not," Chris said, half sadly. "But what a strange case altogether."

"Passing strange. I'll go bail that that man is born and bred a gentleman; and, what is more,
he is no more of an American than I am. I kept on forgetting from time to time what he was
and taking him for one of our own class. And, finally, I capped my folly by asking him to bring
his daughter for a drive to-morrow and a lunch on the Gapstone. What do you think of that?"

"Splendid," Chris said, coolly. "Nothing could be better. You will be good enough to exercise
all your powers of fascination on Miss Rawlins to-morrow, and leave her father to me. I thought
of a little plan tonight which I believe will succeed admirably. At first I expected to have
to carry matters with a high hand, but now I am going to get Mr. Rawlins through his daughter.
I shall know all I want to by to-morrow night."

Littimer smiled at this sanguine expectation.

"I sincerely hope you will," he said, drily. "But I doubt it very much indeed. You have one
of the cleverest men in Europe to deal with. Good-night."

But Chris was in no way cast down. She had carefully planned out her line of action, and the
more she thought over it the more sure of success she felt. A few hours more and--but she didn't
care to dwell too closely on that.

It was after luncheon that Chris's opportunity came. Lord Littimer and Grace Rawlins had gone
off to inspect something especially beautiful in the way of a waterfall, leaving Chris and
Rawlins alone. The latter was talking brilliantly over his cigarette.

"Is Lord Littimer any relation of yours?" he asked.

"Well, yes," Chris admitted. "I hope he will be a nearer relation before long."

"Oh, you mean to say--may I venture to congratulate--"

"It isn't quite that," Chris laughed, with a little rising in colour. "I am not thinking of
Lord Littimer, but of his son.... Yes, I see you raise your eyebrows--probably you are aware
of the story, as most people are. And you are wondering why I am on such friendly terms with
Lord Littimer under the circumstances. And I am wondering why you should call yourself John Smith."

The listener coolly flicked the ash from his cigarette. His face was like a mask.

"John Smith is a good name," he said. "Can you suggest a better?"

"If you ask me to do so I can. I should call myself John Rawlins."

There was just the ghost of a smile on Rawlins's lips.

"There is a man of that name," he said, slowly, "who attained considerable notoriety in the
States. People said that he was the dernière cri of refined rascality. He was supposed to be
without feeling of any kind; his villainies were the theme of admiration amongst financial
magnates. There were brokers who piously thanked Providence because Rawlins had never thought
of going on the Stock Exchange, where he could have robbed and plundered with impunity. And
this Rawlins always baffles the police. If he baffles them a little longer they won't be able
to touch him at all. At present, despite his outward show, he has hardly a dollar to call his
own. But he is on to a great coup now, and, strange to say, an honest one. Do you know the
man, Miss Lee?"

Chris met the speaker's eyes firmly.

"I met him last night for the first time," she said.

"In that case you can hardly be said to know him," Rawlins murmured. "If you drive him into
a corner he will do desperate things. If you tried that game on with him you would regret it
for the rest of your life. Good heavens, you are like a child playing about amidst a lot of
unguarded machinery. Why do you do it?"

"That I will tell you presently. Mr. Rawlins, you have a daughter."

The hard look died out of the listener's eyes.

"Whom I love better than my life," he said. "There are two John Rawlins's--the one you know;
and, well, the other one. I should be sorry to show you the other one."

"For the sake of your daughter I don't want to see the other one."

"Then why do you pit yourself against me like this?"

"I don't think you are displaying your usual lucidity," Chris said, coolly. Her heart was beating
fast, but she did not show it. "Just reflect for a moment. I have found you out. I know pretty
well what you are. I need not have told you anything of this. I need have done no more than
gone to the police and told them where to find you. But I don't want to do that; I hate to
do it after what I saw last night. You have your child, and she loves you. Could I unmask you
before her eyes?"

"You would kill her," Rawlins said, a little unsteadily; "and you would kill me, I verily believe.
That child is all the world to me. I committed my first theft so that she could have the change
the doctors declared to be absolutely necessary. I intended to repay the money--the old, old
story. And I was found out by my employers and discharged. Thank goodness, my wife was dead.
Since then I have preyed on society.... But I need not go into that sordid story. You are not
going to betray me?"

"I said before that I should do nothing of the kind."

"Then why do you let me know that you have discovered my identity?"

"Because I want you to help me. I fancy you respect my sex, Mr. Rawlins?"

"Call me Smith, please. I have always respected your sex. All the kindness and sympathy of
my life have been for women. And I can lay my hand on my heart and declare that I never yet
wronged one of them in thought or deed. The man who is cruel to women is no man."

"And yet your friend Reginald Henson is that sort."

Rawlins smiled again. He began to understand a little of what was passing in Chris's mind.

"Would you mind going a little more into details?" he suggested. "So Henson is that sort. Well,
I didn't know, or he had never had my assistance in his little scheme. Oh, of course, I have
known him for years as a scoundrel. So he oppresses women."

"He has done so for a long time: he is blighting my life and the life of my sister and another.
And it seems to me that I have that rascal under my thumb at last. You cannot save him--you
can do no more than place obstacles in my way; but even those I should overcome. And you admit
that I am likely to be dangerous to you."

"You can kill my daughter. I am in your power to that extent."

"As if I should," Chris said. "It is only Reginald Henson whom I want to strike. I want you
to answer a few questions; to tell me why you went to Walen's and induced them to procure a
certain cigar-case for you, and why you subsequently went to Lockhart's at Brighton and bought
a precisely similar one."

Rawlins looked in surprise at the speaker. A tinge of admiration was on his face. There was
a keenness and audacity after his own heart.

"Go on," he said, slowly. "Tell me everything openly and freely, and when you have done so
I will give you all the information that lies in my power."

CHAPTER L

RAWLINS IS CANDID

"So Reginald Henson bullies women," Rawlins said, after a long pause. There was a queer smile
on his face; he appeared perfectly at his ease. He did not look in the least like a desperate
criminal whom Chris could have driven out of the country by one word to the police. In his
perfectly-fitting grey suit he seemed more like a lord of ancient acres than anything else.
"It is not a nice thing to bully women."

"Reginald Henson finds it quite a congenial occupation," Chris said, bitterly.

Rawlins pulled thoughtfully at his cigarette.

"I am to a certain extent in your power," he said. "You have discovered my identity at a time
when I could sacrifice thousands for it not to be known that I am in England. How you have
discovered me matters as little as how a card-player gets the ace of trumps. And I understand
that the price of your silence is the betrayal of Henson?"

"That is about what it comes to," said Chris.

"In the parlance of the lower type of rascal, I am to 'round on my pal'?"

"If you like to put it in that way, Mr. Smith."

"I never did such a thing in my life before. And, at the same time, I don't mind admitting
that I was never so sorely tried. At the present moment I am on the verge of a large fortune,
and I am making my grand coup honestly. Would you deem it exaggeration on my part if I said
that I was exceedingly glad of the fact?"

"Mr. Smith," Chris said, earnestly, "I have seen how fond you are of your daughter."

"That is an exceedingly clever remark of yours, young lady," Rawlins smiled. "You know that
you have found the soft spot in my nature, and you are going to hammer on it till you reduce
me to submission. I am not a religious man, but my one prayer is that Grace shall never find
me out. When my coup comes off I am going to settle in England and become intensely respectable."

"With Reginald Henson for your secretary, I suppose?"

"No, I am going to drop the past. But to return to our subject. Are you asking me to betray
Henson to the police?"

"Nothing of the kind," Chris cried, hastily. "I--I would do anything to avoid a family scandal.
All I want is a controlling power over the man."

"The man who bullies women?"

"The same. For seven years he has wrecked the lives of five of us--three women. He has parted
husband and wife, he has driven the man I love into exile. And the poor wife is gradually going
hopelessly mad under his cruelties. And he blackmails us, he extorts large sums of money from
us. If you only knew what we have suffered at the hands of the rascal!"

Rawlins nodded in sympathy.

"I did not imagine that," he said. "Of course, I have known for years that Henson was pretty
bad. You may smile, but I have never had any sympathy with his methods and hypocritical ways,
perhaps because I never did anything of the kind myself. Nobody can say that I ever robbed
anybody who was poor or defenceless or foolish. By heavens, I am a more honest man than hundreds
of London and New York capitalists. It is the hard rogues amongst us who have always been my
mark. But to injure and wound women and children!"

"Which means that you are going to help me?" Chris asked, quietly.

"As far as I can, certainly. Especially as you are going to let Henson down easily. Now please
ask me any questions that you like."

"This is very good of you," said Chris. "In the first place, did you ever hear Mr. Henson speak
of his relations or friends?"

"Nobody beyond Lord Littimer. You see, Henson and I were extremely useful to one another once
or twice, but he never trusted me, and I never trusted him. I never cared for his methods."

"Did you go to Brighton lately on purpose to help him?"

"Certainly not. I had business in Brighton for some considerable time, and my daughter was
with me. When she went away to stay with friends for a short time I moved to the Metropole."

"Then why did you go to Walen's in Brighton and ask them to show you some gun-metal cigar-cases
like the one in Lockhart's window?"

"Simply because Henson asked me to. He came to me just before I went to the Metropole and told
me he had a big thing on. He didn't give me the least idea what it was, nor did I ask him.
He suggested the idea of the cigar-case, and said that I need not go near Walen's again, and
I didn't. I assure you I had no curiosity on the matter. In any case a little thing like that
couldn't hurt me. Some days later Henson came to me again, and asked me to go to Lockhart's
and purchase the cigar-case I had previously seen. He wanted me to get the case so that I could
not be traced. Again I agreed. I was leaving the Metropole the next day, so the matter was
easy. I called and purchased the cigar-case on approval, I forwarded dollar-notes in payment
from the Metropole, and the next day I left."

"And you did all that without a single question?"

"I did. It was only a little consideration for an old confederate."

"And suppose that confederate had played you false?"

Two tiny points of flame danced in Rawlins's eyes.

"Henson would never have dared," he said. "My mind was quite easy on that score."

"I understand," Chris murmured. "And you kept the cigar-case?"

"Yes, I rather liked it. And I could afford a luxury of that kind just then."

"Then why did you dispose of it to Rutter's in Moreton Wells? And why Moreton Wells?"

Rawlins laughed as he lighted a fresh cigarette.

"I came to Moreton Wells knowing that Henson was at Littimer Castle," he explained. "I went
there to borrow £200 from Henson. Unfortunately I found him in great need of money. Somebody
who had promised him a large sum of money had disappointed him."

Chris smiled. She had heard all about Lady Littimer's adventure with the ring, and her stubborn
refusal to give Henson any further supplies.

"Presently I can tell you who disappointed Henson," she said. "But fancy you being short of--"

"Of ready money; I frequently am. One of your great millionaires told me lately that he was
frequently hard up for a thousand pounds cash. I have frequently been hard up for five pounds.
Hence the fact that I sold the cigar-case at Moreton Wells."

"Well, the ground is clear so far," said Chris. "Do you know Van Sneck?"

"I know Van Sneck very well," Rawlins said, without hesitation. "A wonderfully clever man."

"And a great scoundrel, I presume?"

"Well, on the whole, I should say not. Weak, rather than wicked. Van Sneck has been a tool
and creature of Henson's for years. If he could only keep away from the drink he might make
a fortune. But what has Van Sneck got to do with it?"

"A great deal," Chris said, drily. "And now, please, follow carefully what I am going to say.
A little time ago we poor, persecuted women put our heads together to get free from Reginald
Henson. We agreed to ask Mr. David Steel, the well-known novelist, to show us a way of escape.
Unhappily for us, Henson got to know of it."

Rawlins was really interested at last.

"Pardon me," he said, eagerly, "if I ask a question or two before you proceed. Is Mr. David
Steel the gentleman who found a man half murdered in his house in Brighton?"

"The same. But don't you know who the injured man was?"

"You don't mean to say it was Van Sneck?" Rawlins cried.

Chris nodded gravely. Rawlins looked like a man who was groping about in a sudden dazzle of
blinding light.

"I begin to understand," he muttered. "The scoundrel!"

"After that I will resume," Chris said. "You must understand that Mr. Steel was a stranger
to us. We hit upon the idea of interviewing him anonymously, so to speak, and we were going
to give him a gun-metal cigar-case mounted in diamonds. A friend of mine purchased that cigar-case
at Lockhart's. Mind you, Reginald Henson knew all about this. The same day Henson's tool, Van
Sneck, purchased a similar case from Walen's--a case really procured for your approval--and
later on in the day the case passed from Van Sneck to Henson, who dexterously changed the cases."

"Complex," Rawlins muttered. "But I begin to see what is coming."

"The cases were changed, and the one from Walen's in due course became Mr. Steel's. Now note
where Henson's diabolical cunning comes in. The same night Van Sneck is found half murdered
in Mr. Steel's house, and in his pocket is the receipt for the very cigar-case that Mr. Steel
claimed as his own property."

"Very awkward for Steel," Rawlins said, thoughtfully.

"Of course it was. And why was it done? So that we should be forced to come forward and exonerate
Mr. Steel from blame. We should have had to tell the whole story, and then Henson would have
learnt what steps we were taking to get rid of him."

Rawlins was quiet for some time. Admiration for the scheme was uppermost in his mind, but there
was another thought that caused him to glance curiously at Chris.

"And that is all you know?" he asked.

"Not quite," Chris replied. "I know that on the day of the attempted murder Van Sneck quarrelled
with Reginald Henson, who he said had treated him badly. Van Sneck had in some way found out
that Reginald Henson meant mischief to Mr. Steel. Also he couldn't get the money he wanted.
Probably he had purchased that cigar-case at Walen's, and Henson could not repay him for the
purchase of it. Then he went off and wrote to Mr. Steel, asking the latter to see him, as he
had threatened Henson he would do."

"Ah!" Rawlins exclaimed, suddenly. "Are you sure of this?"

"Certain. I heard it from a man who was with Van Sneck at the time, a man called Merritt."

"James Merritt. Really, you have been in choice company, Miss Lee. Your knowledge of the criminal
classes is getting extensive and peculiar."

"Merritt told me this. And an answer came back."

"An answer from Mr. Steel?"

"Purporting to be an answer from Mr. Steel. A very clever forgery, as a matter of fact. Of
course that forgery was Henson's work, because we know that Henson coolly ordered notepaper
in Mr. Steel's name. He forgot to pay the bill, and that is how the thing came out. Besides,
the little wad of papers on which the forgery was written is in Mr. Steel's hands. Now, what
do you make of that?"

Rawlins turned the matter over thoughtfully in his mind.

"Did Henson know that Mr. Steel would be from home that night?" he asked.

"Of course. He probably also knew where our meeting with Mr. Steel was to take place."

"Then the matter is pretty obvious," said Rawlins. "Van Sneck, by some means or other, gets
an inkling of what is going on. He wanted money from Henson, which he couldn't get, Henson
being very short lately, and then they quarrelled. Van Sneck was fool enough to threaten Henson
with what he was going to do. Van Sneck's note was dispatched by hand and intercepted by Henson
with a reply. By the way, will you be good enough to give me the gist of the reply?"

"It was a short letter from Mr. Steel and signed with his initials, and saying in effect that
he was at home every night and would see Van Sneck about twelve or some time like that. He
was merely to knock quietly, as the household would be in bed, and Mr. Steel would let him in."

"And Mr. Steel never wrote that letter at all?"

"No; for the simple reason that he never had Van Sneck's note."

"Which Henson intercepted, of course. Now, the mere fact of the reply coming on Mr. Steel's
paper is evidence that Henson had plotted some other or alternative scheme against Mr. Steel.
How long before the cigar-case episode had you decided to consult the novelist?"

"We began to talk about it nine or ten days before."

"And Henson got to hear of it. Then a better idea occurred to Henson, and the first idea which
necessitated getting hold of Mr. Steel's notepaper was abandoned. Subsequently, as you have
just told me, the note-paper came in useful after all. Henson knew that Steel would be out
that night. And, therefore, Van Sneck is deliberately lured to Steel's house to be murdered there."

"I see," Chris said, faintly. "This had never occurred to me before. Murdered, by whom?"

"By whom? Why, by Reginald Henson, of course."

Just for a moment Chris felt as if all the world was slipping away under her feet.

"But how could he do it?" she asked.

"Quite easily. And throw all the blame on Mr. Steel. Look at the evidence he had ready to his
hand against the latter. The changed cigar-case would come near to hang a man. And Van Sneck
was in the way. Steel goes out to meet you or some of your friends. All his household are in
bed. As a novelist he comes and goes as he likes and nobody takes any heed. He goes and leaves
his door on the latch. Any money it is the common latch they put on thousands of doors. Henson
lets himself into the house and coolly waits Van Sneck's coming. The rest you can imagine."

Chris had no reply for a moment or two. Rawlins's suggestion had burst upon her like a bomb.
And it was all so dreadfully, horribly probable. Henson could have done this thing with absolute
impunity. It was impossible to imagine for a moment that David Steel was the criminal. Who
else could it be, then, but Reginald Henson?

"I'm afraid this has come as a shock to you," Rawlins said, quietly.

"It has, indeed," said Chris. "And your reasoning is so dreadfully logical."

"Well, I may be wrong, after all," Rawlins suggested.

Chris shook her head doubtfully. She felt absolutely assured that Rawlins was right. But, then,
Henson would hardly have run so terrible a risk for a little thing like that. He could easily
have silenced Van Sneck by a specious promise or two. There must be another reason for--

It came to Chris in a moment. She saw the light quite plainly.

"Mr. Smith," she said, eagerly, "where did you first meet Henson and Van Sneck?"

"We first came together some eight years ago in Amsterdam."

"Would you mind telling me what your business was?"

"So far as I can recollect it was connected with some old silver--William and Mary and Queen
Anne cups and jardinières. We had made a bit of a find that we could authenticate, but we wanted
a lot of the stuff, well--faked. You see, Van Sneck was an authority on that kind of thing,
and we employed him to cut marks off small genuine things and attach them to spurious large
ones. On the whole, we made a very successful business of it for a long time."

"You found Van Sneck an excellent copyist. Did he ever copy anything for you?"

"No. But Henson employed him now and again. Van Sneck could construct a thing from a mere description.
There was a ring he did for Henson--"

"Was that called Prince Rupert's ring, by any chance?"

"That was the name of the ring. Why?"

"We will come to that presently. Did you ever see Prince Rupert's ring?"

"Well, I did. It was in Amsterdam again, about a year later than the time I mentioned just
now. Henson brought the real ring for Van Sneck to copy. Van Sneck went into raptures over
it. He said he had never seen anything of the kind so beautiful. He made a copy of the ring,
which he handed back with the original to Henson."

Chris nodded. This pretty faithful copy of the ring was the one that Henson had used as a magnet
to draw Lady Littimer's money and the same one that had found its way into Steel's possession.
But Chris had another idea to follow up.

"You hinted to me just now that Henson was short of money," she said. "Do you mean to say he
is in dire need of some large sum?"

"That's it," Rawlins replied. "I rather fancy there has been some stir with the police over
some business up at Huddersfield some years ago."

"A so-called home both there and at Brighton?"

"That's it. It was the idea that Henson conveyed to me when I saw him at Moreton Wells. It
appears that a certain Inspector Marley, of the Brighton Police, is the same man who used to
have the warrants for the Huddersfield affair in his hands. Henson felt pretty sure that Marley
had recognised him. He told me that if the worst came to the worst he had something he could
sell to Littimer for a large sum of money."

"I know," Chris exclaimed. "It is the Prince Rupert's ring."

"Well, I can't say anything about that. Is this ring a valuable property?"

"Not in itself. But the loss of it has caused a dreadful lot of misery and suffering. Mr. Smith,
Reginald Henson had no business with that ring at all. He stole it and made it appear as if
somebody else had done so by means of conveying the copy to the very last person who should
have possessed it. That sad business broke up a happy home and has made five people miserable
for many years. And whichever way you turn, whichever way you look, you find the cloven foot
of Henson everywhere. Now, what you have told me just now gives me a new idea. The secret that
Henson was going to sell to Lord Littimer for a large sum was the story of the missing ring
and the restitution of the same."

"Kind of brazening it out, you mean?"

"Yes. Lord Littimer would give three times ten thousand pounds to have that ring again. But
at this point Henson has met with a serious check in his plans. Driven into a corner, he has
resolved to make a clean breast of it to Lord Littimer. He procures the ring from his strong
box, and then he makes a discovery."

"Which is more than I have. Pray proceed."

"He discovers that he has not got the real Prince Rupert's ring."

Rawlins looked up with a slightly puzzled air.

"Will you kindly tell me what you mean?" he said.

"It was a forgery. Van Sneck made a copy from a mere description. That copy served its purpose
with a vengeance, and is now at the bottom of the North Sea. I need not go into details, because
it is a family secret, and does not concern our conversation at all. At that time the real
ring came into Henson's possession, and he wanted a copy to hold over the head of an unfortunate
lady whom he would have ruined before long. You told me just now that Van Sneck had fallen
in love with Prince Rupert's ring and could hardly bear to part with it. He didn't."

"No? But how could he retain it?"

"Quite easily. The copy was quite faithful, but still it was a copy. But secretly Van Sneck
makes a copy that would deceive everybody but an expert, and this he hands over to--"

"To Henson as the real ring," Rawlins cried, excitedly.

Chris smiled, a little pleased at her acumen.

"Precisely," she said. "I see that you are inclined to be of my opinion."

"Well, upon my word, I am," Rawlins confessed. "But I don't quite see why--"

"Please let me finish," Chris went on, excitedly. "Reginald Henson is driven back on his last
trenches. He has to get the ring for Lord Littimer. He takes out the ring after all these years,
never dreaming that Van Sneck would dare to play such a trick upon him, and finds out the forgery.
Did you ever see that man when he is really angry?"

"He is not pretty then," Rawlins said.

"Pretty! He is murder personified. Kindly try to imagine his feelings when he discovers he
has been deceived. Mind you, this is only a theory of mine, but I feel certain that it will
prove correct. Henson's last hope is snatched away from him. But he does not go straight to
Van Sneck and accuse him of his duplicity. He knows that Van Sneck stole the ring for sheer
love of the gem, and that he would not dare to part with it. He assumes that the ring is in
Van Sneck's possession. And when Van Sneck threatened to expose part of the business to Mr.
Steel, Henson makes no attempt to soothe him. Why? Because he sees a cunning way of getting
back the ring. He himself lures Van Sneck to Mr. Steel's house, and there he almost murders
him for the sake of the ring. Of course, he meant to kill Van Sneck in such a way that the
blame could not possibly fall upon him."

"Can you prove that he knew anything about it?"

"I can prove that he knew who Van Sneck was at a time when the hospital people were doing their
best to identify the man. And I know how fearfully uneasy he was when he got to know that some
of us were aware who Van Sneck was. It has been a pretty tangle for a long time, but the skein
is all coming out smoothly at last. And if we could get the ring which Henson forced by violence
from Van Sneck--"

"Excuse me. He did nothing of the kind."

Chris looked up eagerly.

"Oh," she cried, "have you more to tell me, then?"

"Nothing authentic," Rawlins said; "merely surmise. Van Sneck is going to recover. If he does
it will be hard for Henson, who ought to get away with his plunder at once. Why doesn't he
go and blackmail Lord Littimer and sell him the ring and clear out of the country? He doesn't
do so because the ring is not yet in his possession."

"Then you imagine that Van Sneck--"

"Still has the ring probably in his possession at the present moment. If you only knew where
Van Sneck happened to be."

Chris rose to her feet with an excited cry.

"I do know," she exclaimed; "he is in the house where he was half murdered. And Mr. Steel shall
know all this before he sleeps to-night."

CHAPTER LI

HERITAGE IS WILLING

Bell's sanguine expectation that Van Sneck would be ready for an immediate operation was not
quite correct. As the day wore on the man seemed more feverish and restless, which feverishness
was followed by a certain want of strength. After due deliberation Dr. Cross suggested that
the operation should be postponed for a day or two.

"The man is out of our hands," he said. "You have identified him, and you desire that he should
remain here. It is pretty irregular altogether. And I hope I shan't get into trouble over it.
Still, in such capable hands as yours--"

Bell acknowledged the compliment with a smile.

"Between Heritage and myself," he said, "we shall pull him through, eh, Heritage?"

The other doctor nodded brightly. For some little time he had been directly under Bell's influence,
and that had meant a marvellous change for the better, he had lost a deal of his hesitating
manner, and was looking forward to the operation with the keenest interest.

"However, I will put you all right," Bell said. "I fancy the time has come when we can confide
to a certain extent in Marley. And if the police approve of Van Sneck being here, I don't see
that you can say any more."

Cross was emphatically of the same opinion. Later on, in the course of a long interview with
Marley, Bell and Steel opened the latter's eyes to a considerable extent.

"Well, I must congratulate you, sir," he said to Steel. "I'm bound to confess that things looked
pretty black against you at one time. Indeed, I should have been fully justified in arresting
you for the attempted murder of Van Sneck."

"But you never deemed me guilty, Marley?"

"No, I didn't," Marley said, thoughtfully. "I argued in your favour against my better judgment.
I gather even now that there is a great deal for me to know."

"And which you are not going to learn," Bell said, drily. "When we have Van Sneck all right
again, and ready to swear to the author of the mischief, you will have to be satisfied."

"That would satisfy me, sir. And I'm glad that cigar-case mystery is settled. You'll let me
know how the operation goes on?"

Steel promised to do so, and the two returned to Downend Terrace together. They found Heritage
a little excited and disturbed.

"Do you know I have had a visitor?" he exclaimed.

Bell started slightly. He looked just a little anxious.

"I'm going to guess it at once," he said. "Reginald Henson has been here."

"You are certainly a wonderful fellow," Heritage said, admiringly. "Nobody else could possibly
have guessed that. He came to see me, of course."

"Oh, of course," Bell said, drily. "Naturally, he would have no ulterior motive. Did he happen
to know that we had a kind of patient under the roof?"

Heritage explained that Henson seemed to know something about it. Also, by singular coincidence,
he had met Van Sneck abroad. He expressed a desire to see the patient, but Heritage's professional
caution had got the better of his friendship for once. Henson had given way finally, saying
that he hoped to call again later in the day.

"It's a good thing you were firm," Bell said, grimly. "Otherwise there would have been no need
for an operation on Van Sneck. My dear Heritage, it's quite time your eyes were opened to the
true nature of your friend. Henson watched Steel and myself out of the house He wanted to see
Van Sneck; he has probably known from the first that the latter was here."

"Matter of philanthropy, perhaps," Heritage suggested.

"A matter of murder," Bell said, sternly. "My dear fellow, Van Sneck was nearly done to death
in yonder conservatory, and his would-be assassin was Reginald Henson."

"I was never more astounded in my life," gasped Heritage. "I have always looked upon Henson
as the soul of honour and integrity. And he has always been so kind to me."

"For his own purposes, no doubt. You say that he found you a home after your misfortunes came
upon you. He came to see you frequently. And yet he always harped upon that wretched hallucination
of yours. Why? Because you were the Carfax family doctor for a time, and at any moment you
might have given valuable information concerning the suicide of Claire Carfax. Tell Heritage
the story of Prince Rupert's ring, Steel."

David proceeded to do so at some length. Heritage appeared to be deeply interested. And gradually
many long-forgotten things came back to him.

"I recollect it all perfectly well," he said. "Miss Carfax and myself were friends. Like most
people with badly balanced intellects, she had her brilliant moments. Why, she showed me that
ring with a great deal of pride, but she did not tell me its history. She was very strange
in her manner that morning; indeed, I warned her father that she wanted to be most carefully
looked after."

"Did she say how she got the ring?" Steel asked.

Heritage did not answer for a moment.

"Oh, yes," he said, presently, "She said it was a present from a good boy, and that Reginald
Henson had given it her in an envelope. I met Henson close by, but I didn't mention the ring."

"And there you have the whole thing in a nutshell!" Bell exclaimed. "Nothing of this came out
at the inquest, because the ring story was hushed up, and Heritage was not called because he
had nothing to do with the suicide. But Henson probably saw poor Claire Carfax show you the
ring, and he got a bit frightened, and he kept an eye upon you afterwards. When you broke down
he looked after you, and he took precious good care to keep your hallucination always before
your eyes. Whenever he came to see you he always did that."

"You are quite right there," Heritage admitted. "He mentioned it this afternoon when I said
I was going to take part in the operation on Van Sneck. He asked me if I thought it wise to
try my nerves so soon again with the electric light."

"And I hope you told him he was talking nonsense," Bell said, hastily. "There, let us change
the subject. The mere mention of that man's name stifles me."

Morning brought a long letter from Chris Henson to David, giving him in detail the result of
her recent interview with John Rawlins. There was a postscript to the letter which David showed
to Bell with a certain malicious glee.

"A nasty one for our friend Henson," he said. "What a sweet surprise it will be for that picturesque
gentleman the next time he goes blackmailing to Longdean Grange."

Bell chuckled in his turn. The net was drawing very close about Henson.

"How is Van Sneck to-day?" David asked.

"Much better," Bell replied. "I propose to operate to-night. I'm glad to hear that your mother
is going to be away a day or two longer."

Heritage appeared to be ready and eager for the work before him. A specially powerful electric
light had been rigged up in connection with the study lamp, and an operating table improvised
from the kitchen. More than once Bell looked eagerly at Heritage, but the latter stood the
scrutiny bravely. Once the operation was successfully through. Heritage would never suffer
from hallucinations again.

"I fancy everything is ready now," Bell said, at length. "After dinner to-night and this thing
will be done. Then the story will be told--"

"Mr. Reginald Henson to see you, sir."

A servant looked in with this information and a card on a tray. There was a slight commotion
outside, the vision of a partially-wrecked bicycle on the path, and a dusty figure in the hall
with his head in his hand.

"The gentleman has met with an accident, sir," the parlourmaid said. Henson seemed to be knocked
about a great deal. He was riding down the terrace, he said, when suddenly he ran over a dog, and--

"What sort of a dog?" Bell snapped out. "What colour and size?"

Henson was utterly taken aback by the suddenness of the question. He gasped and stammered.
He could not have told Bell more plainly that the "accident" was an artistic fake.

"You must stay here till you feel all right again," David suggested.

"Stay here for the night," Bell growled, sotto voce. "Stay here till to-morrow morning and
hear something from Van Sneck's lips that will finish his interesting career for some time.
Medical treatment be hanged. A clothes-brush and some soap and water are all the physic that
he requires."

Presently Henson professed himself to be better. His superficial injuries he bore with a manly
fortitude quite worthy of his high reputation. He could afford to smile at them. But he feared
that there was something internal of a sufficiently serious nature. Every time he moved he
suffered exquisite agony. He smiled in a faint kind of way. Bell watched him as a cat watches
a mouse. And he could read a deeper purpose behind that soft, caressing manner. What it was
he did not know, but he meant to find out before the day was passed.

"Hadn't we better send him to the hospital?" David suggested.

"What for?" was Bell's brutal response. "There's nothing whatever the matter with the man."

"But he has every appearance of great pain."

"To you, perhaps, but not to me. The man is shamming. He has come here for some purpose, which
will be pretty sure to transpire presently. The knave never dreams that we are watching him,
and he hugs himself with the delusion that we take his story for gospel. Fancy a man in the
state that he pretends to be in sending his card to you! Let him stay where we can keep an
eye upon the chap. So long as he is under our observation he can't do any mischief outside."

There was wisdom in what Bell suggested, and David agreed. Despite his injuries, Henson made
a fair tea, and his dinner, partaken of on the dining-room sofa, was an excellent one.

"And now, do not let me detain you, as you have business," he smiled. "I shall be quite comfortable
here if you will place a glass of water by my side. The pain makes me thirsty. No, you need
not have any further consideration for me."

He smiled with patient resignation, the smile that he had found so effective on platforms.
He lay back with his eyes half closed. He seemed to be asleep.

"I fancy we can leave him now," Bell said, with deep sarcasm. "We need have no further anxiety.
Perfect rest is all that he requires."

Henson nodded in a sleepy fashion; his eyes were closed now till the others had left the room.
Once he was alone he was alert and vigorous again.

"Ten minutes," he muttered, "say, a quarter of an hour. A touch, a spot of water, and the thing
is done. And I can never be found out."

CHAPTER LII

PUTTING THE LIGHT OUT

Once the trio were in the operating-room Bell gave one rapid glance at Heritage. But the latter
seemed to have forgotten all his fears. There was an alert air about him; he was quiet and
steady. There was something of the joy of battle in his eyes.

"Now go and fetch Van Sneck in," Bell said.

The patient came at length. Everything was ready. Van Sneck murmured something and looked vaguely
about him, like a man suddenly aroused from a deep sleep. But he obeyed quite willingly when
Bell commanded him to get on the table. A moment or two later and he was gone under the influence
of the ether administered by Bell.

A case of glittering instruments lay on the table. The strong electric light was switched on
and hung just over the head of the unconscious patient.

"You hold the sponge," Bell whispered to David. "There will be very little blood. I like to
have a man with me who has coolness and courage. Oh, here is the spot. Feel the depression
of the skull, Heritage. That is where the pressure lies, and no larger than a pea."

Heritage nodded, without reply. He took up the knife, there was a flash of steel in the brilliant
light and a sudden splash of blood. There was a scrape, scrape that jolted horribly on David's
nerves, followed by a convulsive movement of Van Sneck's body.

"Beautiful, beautiful," Heritage murmured. "How easily it comes away."

Bell was watching in deep admiration of the strong hand that was yet light as thistledown.
The big electric light flickered for just a moment, and Heritage stood upright.

"Don't be a fool," Bell said, sternly. "It's a mere matter of current." Heritage muttered that
it must be. Nevertheless it had given him quite a turn. His face was set and pale and his hand
shook ever so slightly. The knife was cutting deep, deeper--

A snarling oath broke from Bell's lips as the light flickered again and popped out suddenly,
leaving the whole room in intense darkness. Heritage cried aloud. David felt a hand guiding
his fingers to the patient's head.

"Press the sponge down there and press hard," Bell whispered. "It's a matter of life and death.
Another minute and Van Sneck would have gone. Heritage, Heritage, pull yourself together. It
was no fault of yours the light went out--the fault is mine."

Bell stumbled down the kitchen stairs and returned with a candle. The electric lights were
out all over the ground floor with the exception of the hall. One of the circuits had given
out completely, as sometimes happens with the electric light. Bell leapt on a table and turned
the hall light out. A second later and he was dragging the long spare flex from the impromptu
operating-room to the swinging cord over the hall lamp. With a knife he cut the cord loose,
he stripped the copper wires beneath, and rapidly joined one flex to the other.

"It's amateur work, but I fancy it will do," he muttered. "Anyway, that rascal is powerless
to interfere with the circuit that controls the hall light."

Snap went the hall switch--there was a sudden cry from Heritage as the big lamp over the head
of Van Sneck flared up again. Bell raced into the study and shut the door.

"A trick," he gasped. "The light was put out. For Heaven's sake, Heritage, don't get brooding
over those fancies of yours now. I tell you the thing was done deliberately. Here, if you are
too weak or feeble, give the knife to me."

The request had a sting in it. With an effort Heritage pulled himself together.

"No," he said, firmly, "I'll do it. It was a cruel, dastardly trick to play upon me, but I
quite see now that it was a trick. Only it's going to make a man of me instead."

Bell nodded. His eyes were blazing, but he said nothing. He watched Heritage at work with stern
approval. Nothing could have been more scientific, more skilful. It seemed a long time to David,
looking on, but it was a mere matter of minutes.

"Finished," Heritage said, with a triumphant thrill. "And successful."

"And another second would have seen an end of our man," Bell said. "He's coming round again.
Get those bandages on, Heritage. I'll look after the mess. Give him the drug. I want him to
sleep for a good long time."

"Will he be sensible to-morrow?" David asked.

"I'll pledge my reputation upon it," Bell said. "Hadn't you better telephone down to your electrician
to come and see to those lights? I see the fuse in the meter is intact; it is only on the one
circuit that they have gone."

Van Sneck opened his eyes and stared languidly about him. In a clear, weak, yet wholly sensible
voice he asked where he was, and then lapsed into slumber. A little later and he lay snug and
still in bed. There was a look of the deepest pleasure in the eyes of Heritage.

"I've saved him and he's saved me," he said. "But it was touch and go for both of us when that
light failed. But for Bell I fancied that I should have fainted. And then it came to me that
it was some trick, and my nerve returned."

"Never to leave you again," Bell said. "It tried you high, and found you not wanting."

"Heaven be praised," Heritage murmured. "But how was it done?"

Bell's face was stern as he took the kitchen candlestick from the table and went in the direction
of the dining-room.

"Come with me, and I'll explain," he said, curtly.

The dining-room was in pitchy darkness, for the lights there had been on the short circuit;
indeed, the lights on the ground floor had all failed with the exception of the hall, which
fortunately had been on another circuit. The fact had saved Van Sneck's life, for if Bell had
not speedily used that one live wire the patient must have perished.

Henson looked up from his sofa with a start and a smile.

"I am afraid I must have been asleep," he said, languidly.

"Liar," Bell thundered. "You have been plotting murder. And but for a mere accident the plot
would have been successful. You have worked out the whole thing in your mind; you came here
on purpose. You came here to stifle the light at the very moment when we were operating on
Van Sneck. You thought that all the lights on the floor would be on the same circuit; you have
been here before."

"Are you mad?" Henson gasped. "When have I been here before--"

"The night that you lured Van Sneck here by a forged letter and left him for dead."

Henson gasped, his lips moved, but no words came from them.

"You have a little knowledge of electricity," Bell went on. "And you saw your way pretty clear
to spoil our operation to-night. You got that idea from yonder wall-plug, into which goes the
plunger of the reading lamp on the cabinet yonder. At the critical moment all you had to do
was to dip your fingers in water and press the tips of them against the live wire in the wall-plug.
You did so, and immediately the wires fired all over the circuit and plunged us in darkness.
But the hall light remained sound, and Van Sneck was saved. If it is any consolation to you,
he will be as sensible as any of us to-morrow."

"Hensen had risen to his feet, pale and trembling, He protested, but it was all in vain. Bell
approached the china wall-plug and pointed to it.

"Hold the candle down," he said. "There! You can see that the surface is still wet, there is
water in the holes now, and some of it has trickled down the distemper on the wall. You ought
to be shot where you stand, murderous dog."

Henson protested, with some dignity. It was all so much Greek to him, he said. He had been
sleeping so quietly that he had not seen the light fail. Bell cut him short.

"Get out," he cried. "Go away; you poison the air that honest men breathe, and you are as fit
and well as I am. Why don't you pitch him into the street, Steel? Why don't you telephone to
Marley at the police-station, and say that the Huddersfield swindler is here? Oh, if you only
knew what an effort it is to keep my hands off him!"

Henson made for the door with alacrity. A moment later and he was in the street, dazed, confused,
and baffled, and with the conviction strong upon him that he had failed in his great coup.
Van Sneck would be sensible to-morrow--he would speak. And then--

But he dared not think of that at present. He wanted all his nerve and courage now. He had
just one last chance, one single opportunity of making money, and then he must get out of the
country without delay. He almost wished now that he had not been quite so precipitate in the
matter of James Merritt. That humble tool might have been of great advantage to him at this
moment. But Merritt had threatened to be troublesome and must be got out of the way. But then,
the police had not picked Merritt up yet. Was it possible that Merritt had found out that--

But Henson did not care to think of that, either, He would go back to the quiet lodgings he
had taken in Kemp Town for a day or two, he would change his clothes and walk over to Longdean
Grange, and it would go hard if he failed to get a cheque from the misguided lady there. If
he were quick he could be there by eleven o'clock.

He passed into his little room. He started back to see a man sleeping in his armchair. Then
the man, disturbed by the noise of the newcomer, opened his eyes. And those eyes were gleaming
with a glow that filled Henson's heart with horrible dread. It was Merritt who sat opposite
him, and it was Merritt whose eyes told Henson that he knew of the latter's black treachery.
Henson was face to face with death, and he knew it.

He turned and fled for his life; he scudded along the streets, past the hospital and up towards
the downs, with Merritt after him. The start was not long, but it was sufficient. Merritt took
the wrong turn, and, with a heart beating fast and hard, Henson climbed upwards. It was a long
time before his courage came back to him. He did not feel really easy in his mind until he
had passed the lodge-gates at Longdean Grange, where he was fortunate enough, after a call
or two, to rouse up Williams.

The latter came with more alacrity than usual. There was a queer grin on his face and a suggestion
of laughter in his eyes.

"There seems to be a lot of light about," Henson cried. "Take me up to the house, and don't
let anybody know I am here. Your mistress gone to bed?"

"She's in the drawing-room," Williams said, "singing. And Miss Enid's there. I am sure they
will be glad to see you, sir."

Henson doubted it, but made no reply. There was a chatter of voices in the drawing-room, a
chatter of a lightsomeness that Henson had never heard before. Well, he would soon settle all
that. He passed quietly into the room, then stood in puzzled fear and amazement.

"Our dear nephew," said a cool, sarcastic voice. "Come in, sir, come in. This is quite charming.
Well, my sweet philanthropist and most engaging gentleman, and what may we have the pleasure
of doing for you to-night?"

"Lord Littimer?" Henson gasped. "Lord Littimer here?"

CHAPTER LIII

UNSEALED LIPS

Bell gave a gesture of relief as the door closed upon Henson. Heritage looked like a man who
does not quite understand.

"I haven't quite got the hang of it yet," he said. "Was that done for my benefit?"

"Of course it was," Bell replied. "Henson found out that Van Sneck was here, as he was certain
to do sooner or later. He comes here to make inquiries and finds you; also he comes to spy
out the land. Now, without being much of a gambler, I'm willing to stake a large sum that he
introduced the subject of your old trouble?"

"He invariably did that," Heritage admitted.

"Naturally. That was part of the game. And you told him that you had got over your illness
and that you were going to do the operation. And you told him how. Where were you when the
little conversation between Henson and yourself took place?"

"He was asked into the dining-room."

"And then you told him everything. Directly Henson's eyes fell upon that wall-plug he knew
how to act. He made up his mind that the electric light should fail at a critical moment. Hence
the dramatic 'accident' with the cycle. Once Henson had got into the house the rest was easy.
He had only to wet his fingers and press them hard against the two wires in the wallplug and
out pops the light, in consequence of the fuses blowing out. I don't know where Henson learnt
the trick, but I do know that I was a fool not to think of it. You see, the hall light being
dropped through from the floor above was on another circuit. If it hadn't been we should have
had our trouble with Van Sneck for nothing."

"He would have died?" David asked.

The two doctors nodded significantly.

"What a poisonous scoundrel he is!" David cried. "Miss Chris Henson does not hesitate to say
that he was more or less instrumental in removing two people who helped her and her sister
to defeat Henson, and now he makes two attacks on Van Sneck's life. Really, we ought to inform
the police what has happened and have him arrested before he can do any further mischief. Penal
servitude for life would about fit the case."

Van Sneck was jealously guarded by Heritage and Bell for the next few hours. He awoke the next
morning little the worse for the operation. His eyes were clear now; the restless, eager look
had gone from them.

"Where am I?" he demanded. "What has happened?"

Bell explained briefly. As he spoke his anxiety passed away. He saw that Van Sneck was following
quite intelligently and rationally.

"I remember coming here," the Dutchman said. "I can't recall the rest just now. I feel like
a man who is trying to piece the fragments of a dream together."

"You'll have it all right in an hour or two," Bell said, with an encouraging smile. "Meanwhile
your breakfast is ready. Yes, you can smoke afterwards if you like. And then you shall tell
me all about Reginald Henson. As a matter of fact, we know all about it now."

"Oh," Van Sneck said, blankly. "You do, eh?"

"Yes, even to the history of the second Rembrandt, and the reason why Henson stabbed you and
gave you that crack over the head. If you tell me the truth you are safe; if you don't--why,
you stand a chance of joining Henson in the dock."

Bell went off, leaving Van Sneck to digest this speech at his leisure. Van Sneck lay back on
his bed, propped up with pillows, and smoked many cigarettes before he expressed a desire to
see Bell again. The latter came in with Steel; Heritage had gone elsewhere.

"This gentleman is Mr. Steel?" Van Sneck suggested.

Bell responded somewhat drily that it was. "But I see you are going to tell us everything,"
he went on. "That being so, suppose you begin at the beginning. When you sold that copy of
the 'Crimson Blind' to Lord Littimer had you the other copy?"

"Ach, you have got to the bottom of things, it seems," Van Sneck gurgled.

"Yes, and I have saved your life, foolish as it might seem," Bell replied. "You came very near
to losing it the second attempt last night at Henson's hands. Henson is done for, played out,
burst up. We can arrest him on half-a-dozen charges when we please. We can have you arrested
any time on a charge of conspiracy over those pictures--"

"Of which I am innocent; I swear it," Van Sneck said, solemnly. "Those two Rembrandts--they
fell into my hands by what you call a slice of good luck. I am working hand in glove with Henson
at the time, and show him them. I suggest Lord Littimer as a purchaser. He would, perhaps,
buy the two, which would be a little fortune for me. Then Henson, he says, 'Don't you be a
fool, Van Sneck. Suppress the other; say nothing about it. You get as much from Littimer for
the one as you get for the two, because Lord Littimer think it unique.'"

"That idea commended itself to a curio dealer?" Bell suggested, drily.

"But yes," Van Sneck said, eagerly. "Later on we disclose the other and get a second big price.
And Lord Littimer he buy the first copy for a long price."

"After which you discreetly disappear," said Steel. "Did you steal those pictures?"

"No," Van Sneck said, indignantly. "They came to me in the way of honest business--a poor workman
who knows nothing of their value, and takes fifteen marks for them."

"Honest merchant," David murmured. "Pray go on."

"I had to go away. Some youthful foolishness over some garnets raked up after many years. The
police came down upon me so suddenly that I got away with the skin of my teeth. I leave the
other Rembrandt, everything, behind me. I do not know that Henson he give me away so that he
can steal the other Rembrandt."

"So you have found that out?" said Bell. "Who told you?"

"I learn that not so long ago. I learn it from a scoundrel called Merritt, a tool of Henson.
He tells me to go to Littimer Castle to steal the Rembrandt for Henson, because Dr. Bell, he
find my Rembrandt. Then I what you call pump Merritt, and he tells me all about the supposed
robbery at Amsterdam and what was found in the portmanteau of good Dr. Bell yonder. Then I
go to Henson and tell him what I find out, and he laughs. Mind you, that was after I came here
from Paris on business for Henson."

"About the time you bought that diamond-mounted cigar-case?" David asked, quietly.

Van Sneck nodded. He was evidently impressed by the knowledge possessed by his questioners.

"That's it," he said. "I buy it because Henson ask me to. Henson say he make it all right about
the Rembrandt, and that if I do as I am told he give me £500. His money is to come on a certain
day, but I pump and I pump, and I find that there is some game against Mr. Steel, who is a
great novelist."

"That is very kind of you," David said, modestly.

"One against Miss Enid Henson," Van Sneck went on. "I met that young lady once and I liked
her; therefore, I say I will be no party to getting her into trouble. And Henson says I am
one big fool, and that he is only giving Mr. Steel a lesson in the art of minding his own business.
So I ask no further questions, though I am a good bit puzzled. With the last bank-notes I possess
I go to a place called Walen's and buy the cigar-case that Henson says. I meet him and hand
over the case and ask him for my money. Henson swears that he has no money at all, not even
enough to repay me the price of the cigar-case. He has been disappointed. And I have been drinking.
So I swear I will write and ask Mr. Steel to see me, and I do so."

"And you get an answer?" David asked.

"Sir, I do. You said you would see me the same night. It was a forgery?"

"It was. Henson had anticipated something like that. I know all about the forgery, how my notepaper
was procured, and when the forgery was written. But that has very little to do with the story
now. Please go on."

Van Sneck paused before he proceeded.

