  Stuart and Steele were prompt in taking position,
but Morgan's command (not under your control) did not seem to work up, or keep in junction
with you.  At ten o'clock you sent me to McClernand to ascertain why the delay of attack. 
He attributed it to Admiral Porter, which was really unjust.  The attack began at 1 p.m., by
Admiral Porter, and the sound of his first gun had not died till your men were engaged--Wood's,
Barrett's, and the Parrott batteries and infantry.  It was lively for a time, and Stuart pushed
clear up to the enemy's rifle-trenches, and forced them to keep sheltered.  Hammond was mostly
with Steele; Sanger sent to McClernand, and McCoy, myself, and John Taylor were with you and
Stuart.  At about half-past three I got your permission to go to Giles Smith's skirmish-line,
and, thinking I saw evidence of the enemy weakening, I hurried back to you and reported my
observations.  I was so confident that a demand for it would bring a surrender, that I asked
permission to make it, and, as you granted me, but refused to let another member of your staff,
at his request, go with me, I rode directly down the road with only an orderly.  Colonel Garland,
commanding a brigade, was the first officer I saw, to whom, for you, I made the demand.  All
firing ceased at once, or in a few moments.  I sent the orderly back to you, and you rode forward.
It was then four o'clock.

During the attack, nobody seemed to think McClernand had any clear idea of what or how it was
to be done.  During the day he gave you no directions, nor came where you were; he was well
to the rear, with his "man up a tree," who in the capacity of a lookout gave McClernand information,
from which he based such instructions as he made to his subordinates.  He was free to express
himself as being a man of "destiny," and his "star" was in the ascendance.

MERIDIAN CAMPAIGN.

[Special Field Orders, No. 11.]

HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE TENNESSEE MEMPHIS, January 27, 1864

V. The expedition is one of celerity, and all things must tend to that.  Corps commanders and
staff-officers will see that our movements are not encumbered by wheeled vehicles improperly
loaded. Not a tent, from the commander-in-chief down, will be carried.  The sick will be left
behind, and the surgeons can find houses and sheds for all hospital purposes.

VI. All the cavalry in this department is placed under the orders and command of Brigadier-General
W. S. Smith, who will receive special instructions.

NOTE.-That same evening I started in a steamboat for Vicksburg. W. T. S. St. Louis, 1885.

HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE TENNESSEE MEMPHIS, January 27, 1864

Brigadier-General W. S. SMITH, commanding Cavalry, etc., present.

DEAR GENERAL: By an order issued this day I have placed all the cavalry of this department
subject to your command.  I estimate you can make a force of full seven thousand men, which
I believe to be superior and better in all respects than the combined cavalry which the enemy
has in all the State of Mississippi.  I will in person start for Vicksburg to-day, and with
four divisions of infantry, artillery, and cavalry move out for Jackson, Brandon, and Meridian,
aiming to reach the latter place by February 10th.  General Banks will feign on Pascagoula
and General Logan on Rome.  I want you with your cavalry to move from Colliersville on Pontotoc
and Okolona; thence sweeping down near the Mobile & Ohio Railroad, disable that road as much
as possible, consume or destroy the resources of the enemy along that road, break up the connection
with Columbus, Mississippi, and finally reach me at or near Meridian as near the date I have
mentioned as possible.  This will call for great energy of action on your part, but I believe
you are equal to it, and you have the best and most experienced troops in the service, and
they will do anything that is possible.  General Grierson is with you, and is familiar with
the whole country.  I will send up from Haines's Bluff an expedition of gunboats and transports
combined, to feel up the Yazoo as far as the present water will permit.  This will disconcert
the enemy.  My movement on Jackson will also divide the enemy, so that by no combination can
he reach you with but a part of his force.  I wish you to attack any force of cavalry you meet
and follow them southward, but in no event be drawn into the forks of the streams that make
up the Yazoo nor over into Alabama.  Do not let the enemy draw you into minor affairs, but
look solely to the greater object to destroy his communication from Okolona to Meridian, and
thence eastward to Selma.  From Okolona south you will find abundance of forage collected along
the railroad, and the farmers have corn standing in the fields.  Take liberally of all these,
as well as horses, mules, cattle, etc.  As a rule, respect dwellings and families as something
too sacred to be disturbed by soldiers, but mills, barns, sheds, stables, and such like things
use for the benefit or convenience of your command.  If convenient, send into Columbus, Mississippi,
and destroy all machinery there, and the bridge across the Tombigbee, which enables the enemy
to draw the resources of the east side of the valley, but this is not of sufficient importance
to delay your movement.  Try and communicate with me by scouts and spies from the time you
reach Pontotoc.  Avoid any large force of infantry, leaving them to me.  We have talked over
this matter so much that the above covers all points not provided for in my published orders
of to-day.  I am, etc.,

W. T. SHERMAN, Mayor-General, commanding.

MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE, January 27, 1864.

Brigadier-General J. P. HATCH, in charge of Cavalry Bureau, St. Louis, Missouri.

SIR: Your favor of the 21st inst. is just received.  Up to the present time eight hundred and
eighteen horses have arrived here since Captain Hudson's visit to St. Louis.  I wrote you upon
his return several days ago that it would not be necessary to divert shipments to this point
which could not reach us before February 1st. We shall certainly get off on our contemplated
expedition before that time.  The number of horses estimated for in this department by its
chief quartermaster was two thousand, and this number, including those already sent, will,
I think, completely mount all the dismounted cavalry of this department.  Recruits for cavalry
regiments are arriving freely, and this will swell our requisitions for a couple of months
to come.  I will as far as possible procure horses from the regions of country traversed by
our cavalry.

Yours truly,   W. SOOY SMITH, Brigadier-General,

Chief of Cavalry, Military Division of the Mississippi.

MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE, January 28, 1864

Brigadier-General GEORGE CROOK, commanding Second Cavalry Division, Huntsville, Alabama.

I start in about three days with seven, thousand men to Meridian via Pontotoc.  Demonstrate
on Decatur, to hold Roddy.

MAYWOOD, ILLINOIS, July 9,1875 General W. T. SHERMAN, Commander-in-Chief, United States Army.

SIR: Your letter of July 7th is just received.

Your entire statement in the "Memoirs" concerning my part in the Meridian campaign is incorrect.

You overstate my strength, placing it at seven thousand effective, when it was but six.  The
nominal strength of my command was seven thousand.

You understate the strength of my enemy, putting Forrest's force at four thousand.  On our
return to Nashville, you stated it, in General Grant's presence, to have been but twenty-five
hundred. Before and during my movement I positively knew Forrest's strength to be full six
thousand, and he has since told me so himself.

Instead of delaying from the 1st to the 11th of February for "some regiment that was ice-bound
near Columbus, Kentucky," it was an entire brigade, Colonel Waring's, without which your orders
to me were peremptory not to move.  I asked you if I should wait its arrival, and you answered:
"Certainly; if you go without it, you will be, too weak, and I want you strong enough to go
where you please."

The time set for our arrival at Meridian, the 10th of February, had arrived before it was possible
for me, under your orders, to move from Memphis, and I would have been entirely justifiable
if I had not started at all.  But I was at that time, and at all times during the war, as earnest
and anxious to carry out my orders, and do my full duty as you or any other officer could be,
and I set out to make a march of two hundred and fifty miles into the Confederacy, having to
drive back a rebel force equal to my own. After the time had arrived for the full completion
of my movement, I drove this force before me, and penetrated one hundred and sixty miles into
the Confederacy--did more hard fighting, and killed, wounded, and captured more of the enemy
than you did during the campaign--did my work most thoroughly, as far as I could go without
encountering the rebel cavalry set loose by your return from Meridian, and brought off my command,
with all the captured property and rescued negroes, with very small loss, considering that
inflicted on the enemy, and the long-continued and very severe fighting.  If I had disobeyed
your orders, and started without Waring's brigade, I would have been "too weak," would probably
have been defeated, and would  have been subjected to just censure. Having awaited its arrival,
as I was positively and distinctly ordered to do, it only remained for me to start upon its
arrival, and accomplish all that I could of the work allotted to me.  To have attempted to
penetrate farther into the enemy's country, with the cavalry of Polk's army coming up to reenforce
Forrest, would have insured the destruction of my entire command, situated as it was.  I cannot
now go into all the particulars, though I assure you that they make the proof of the correctness
of my conduct as conclusive as I could desire it to be.  I was not headed off and defeated
by an inferior force near West Point.  We had the fighting all our own way near West Point,
and at all other points except at Okalona, on our return, when we had the worst of it for a
little while, but finally checked the enemy handsomely, and continued our return march, fighting
at the rear and on both flanks, repulsing all attacks and moving in perfect order.  And so
my movement was not a failure, except that I did not reach Meridian as intended, for the reason
stated, and for many more which it is not necessary for me to detail here.  On the other hand,
it was a very decided success, inflicting a terrible destruction of supplies of every kind,
and a heavy loss of men upon the enemy.  You should have so reported it in the beginning. 
You should so amend your report, and "Memoirs" now.  This, and no less than this, is due from
one soldier to another.  It is due to the exalted position which you occupy, and, above all,
it is due to that truthfulness in history which you claim to revere.  If you desire it, I will
endeavor to visit you, and in a friendly manner "fight our battles o'er again," and endeavor
to convince you that you have always been mistaken as to the manner in which my part in the
"Meridian campaign" was performed.  But I will never rest until the wrong statements regarding
it are fully and fairly corrected.  Yours truly,

WILLIAM SOOY SMITH

HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES St. Louis, Missouri, July 11, 1875.

General J. D. WEBSTER, Chicago, Illinois

