CONTENTS.

PART VI.

Artemus Ward's Panorama.

6.1.  Prefatory Note by Melville D. Landon.

6.2.  The Egyptian Hall Lecture.

6.3.  "The Times" Notice.

6.4.  Programme of the Egyptian Hall Lecture.

6.5.  Announcement and Programme of the Dodworth Hall Lecture.

PART VI.  ARTEMUS WARD'S PANORAMA.

(ILLUSTRATED AS DELIVERED AT EGYPTIAN HALL, LONDON.)

6.1.  PREFATORY NOTE BY MELVILLE D. LANDON.

The fame of Artemus Ward culminated in his last lectures at Egyptian Hall, Piccadilly, the
final one breaking off abruptly on the evening of the 23d of January, 1867.  That night the
great humorist bade farewell to the public, and retired from the stage to die!  His Mormon
lectures were immensely successful in England.  His fame became the talk of journalists, savants,
and statesmen.  Every one seemed to be affected differently, but every one felt and acknowledged
his power.  "The Honorable Robert Lowe," says Mr. E.P. HINGSTON, Artemus Ward's bosom friend,
"attended the Mormon lecture one evening, and laughed as hilariously as any one in the room.
The next evening Mr. John Bright happened to be present.  With the exception of one or two
occasional smiles, he listened with GRAVE attention."

The "London Standard," in describing his first lecture in London, aptly said, "Artemus dropped
his jokes faster than the meteors of last night succeeded each other in the sky. And there
was this resemblance between the flashes of his humor and the flights of the meteors, that
in each case one looked for jokes or meteors, but they always came just in the place that one
least expected to find them.  Half the enjoyment of the evening lay, to some of those present,
in listening to the hearty cachinnation of the people, who only found out the jokes some two
or three minutes after they were made, and who laughed apparently at some grave statements
of fact.  Reduced to paper, the showman's jokes are certainly not brilliant; almost their whole
effect lies in their seeming impromptu character.  They are carefully led up to, of course;
but they are uttered as if they are mere afterthoughts of which the speaker is hardly sure."

His humor was so entirely fresh and unconventional, that it took his hearers by surprise, and
charmed them.  His failing health compelled him to abandon the lecture after about eight or
ten weeks.  Indeed, during that brief period he was once or twice compelled to dismiss his
audience.  Frequently he sank into a chair and nearly fainted from the exertion of dressing.
He exhibited the greatest anxiety to be at his post at the appointed time, and scrupulously
exerted himself to the utmost to entertain his auditors.  It was not because he was sick that
the public was to be disappointed, or that their enjoyment was to be diminished.  During the
last few weeks of his lecture-giving, he steadily abstained from accepting any of the numerous
invitations he received.  Had he lived through the following London fashionable season, there
is little doubt that the room at the Egyptian Hall would have been thronged nightly.  The English
aristocracy have a fine, delicate sense of humor, and the success, artistic and pecuniary,
of "Artemus Ward" would have rivalled that of the famous "Lord Dundreary."  There were many
stupid people who did not understand the "fun" of Artemus Ward's books.  There were many stupid
people who did not understand the fun of Artemus Ward's lecture on the Mormons.  Highly respectable
people--the pride of their parish--when they heard of a lecture "upon the Mormons," expected
to see a solemn person, full of old saws and new statistics, who would denounce the sin of
polygamy,--and rave without limit against Mormons.  These uncomfortable Christians do not like
humor.  They dread it as a certain personage is said to dread holy water, and for the same
reason that thieves fear policemen--it finds them out.  When these good idiots heard Artemus
offer if they did not like the lecture in Piccadilly, to give them free tickets for the same
lecture in California, when he next visited that country, they turned to each other indignantly,
and said, "What use are tickets for California to US?  WE are not going to California.  No!
we are too good, too respectable to go so far from home.  The man is a fool!"  One of these
vestrymen complained to the doorkeeper, and denounced the lecturer as an impostor--"and," said
the wealthy parishioner, "as for the panorama, it is the worst painted thing I ever saw."

During the lecture Artemus was always as solemn as the grave.  Sometimes he would seem to forget
his audience, and stand for several seconds gazing intently at his panorama. Then he would
start up and remark apologetically, "I am very fond of looking at my pictures."  His dress
was always the same--evening toilet.  His manners were polished, and his voice gentle and hesitating.
Many who had read of the man who spelled joke with a "g," looked for a smart old man with a
shrewd cock eye, dressed in vulgar velvet and gold, and they were hardly prepared to see the
accomplished gentleman with slim physique and delicate white hands.

The letters of Artemus Ward in "Punch" from the tomb of Shakspeare and the London Tower, had
made him famous in England, and in his audience were the nobility of the realm. His first lecture
in London was delivered at Egyptian Hall, on Tuesday, November 13th, 1866.  The room used was
that which had been occupied by Mr. Arthur Sketchley, adjoining the one in which Mr. Arthur
Smith formerly made his appearances.  The stage, with the curtain down, had this appearance
while Artemus was delivering his prologue:

(Drawing of stage with curtain closed and eight footlights.)

Punctually at eight o'clock he would step hesitatingly before the audience, and rubbing his
hands bashfully, commence the lecture.

6.2.  THE EGYPTIAN HALL LECTURE.

You are entirely welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to my little picture-shop.

I couldn't give you a very clear idea of the Mormons--and Utah--and the Plains--and the Rocky
Mountains--without opening a picture-shop--and therefore I open one.  But I wish when the Egyptians
built this hall they had given it a little more ventilation. (Artemus made many attempts as
an amateur actor, but never to his own satisfaction.  He was very fond of the society of actors
and actresses.  Their weaknesses amused him as much as their talents excited his admiration.
(Spoken with a sigh.  It was a joke which always told.  I lent him the money--and he went away.
Some time after he returned with more tears.  He said he must leave me for ever.  I ventured
to remind him of the 200 pounds he borrowed.  He was much cut up. I thought I would not be
hard upon him--so I told him I would throw off one hundred pounds.

My Orchestra is small--but I am sure it is very good--so far as it goes.  I give my pianist
ten pounds a night--and his washing.  (That a good pianist could be hired for a small sum in
England was a matter of amusement to Artemus.  More especially when he found a gentleman obliging
enough to play anything he desired, such as break-downs and airs which had the most absurd
relation to the scene they were used to illustrate.

The other night some silver-voiced young men came under my window and sang--"Come where my
love lies dreaming."--I didn't go.  I didn't think it would be correct.

I found music very soothing when I lay ill with fever in Utah--and I was very ill--I was fearfully
wasted.--My face was hewn down to nothing--and my nose was so sharp I didn't dare to stick
it into other people's business--for fear it would stay there--and I should never get it again.
And on those dismal days a Mormon lady--she was married--tho' not so much so as her husband--he
had fifteen other wives--she used to sing a ballad commencing "Sweet bird--do not fly away!"--and
I told her I wouldn't.--She played the accordion divinely--accordionly I praised her.

(Though the serious part of the lecture was here entered upon, it was not delivered in a graver
tone than that in which he had spoken the farcicalities of the prologue.  Most of the prefatory
matter was given with an air of earnest thought; the arms sometimes folded, and the chin resting
on one hand.  On the occasion of his first exhibiting the panorama at New York he used a fishing-rod
to point out the picture with; subsequently he availed himself of an old umbrella.  In the
Egyptian Hall he used his little riding-whip.)

Permit me now to quietly state that altho' I am here with my cap and bells I am also here with
some serious descriptions of the Mormons--their manners--their customs--and while the pictures
I shall present to your notice are by no means works of art--they are painted from photographs
actually taken on the spot (They were photographed by Savage & Ottinger, of Salt Lake City,
the photographers to Brigham Young.)--and I am sure I need not inform any person present who
was ever in the territory of Utah that they are as faithful as they could possibly be.  (Curtain.--The
picture was concealed from view during the first part of the lecture by a crimson curtain.
This was drawn together or opened many times in the course of the lecture, and at odd points
of the lecture.  I am not aware that Artemus himself could have explained why he caused the
curtain to be drawn at one place and not at another.  Probably he thought it to be one of his
good jokes that it should shut in the picture just when there was no reason for its being used.)

I went to Great Salt Lake City by way of California?  (That is, he went by steamer from New
York to Aspinwall, thence across the Isthmus of Panama by railway, and then from Panama to
California by another steamboat.  A journey which then occupied about three weeks.)

I went to California on the steamer "Ariel."

This is the steamer "Ariel."  (Picture.)

Oblige me by calmly gazing on the steamer "Ariel"--and when you go to California be sure and
go on some other steamer-- because the Ariel isn't a very good one.

When I reached the "Ariel"--at pier No. 4--New York--I found the passengers in a state of great
confusion about their things--which were being thrown around by the ship's porters in a manner
at once damaging and idiotic.--So great was the excitement--my fragile form was smashed this
way--and jammed that way--till finally I was shoved into a stateroom which was occupied by
two middle-aged females--who said, "Base man--leave us--O leave us!"--I left them--Oh--I left them!

We reach Acapulco on the coast of Mexico in due time. Nothing of special interest occurred
at Acapulco--only some of the Mexican ladies are very beautiful.  They all have brilliant black
hair--hair "black as starless night"--if I may quote from the "Family Herald".  It don't curl.--A
Mexican lady's hair never curls--it is straight as an Indian's.  Some people's hair won't curl
under any circumstances.--My hair won't curl under two shillings. (Artemus always wore his
hair straight until his severe illness in Salt Lake City.  So much of it dropped off during
his recovery that he became dissatisfied with the long meagre appearance his countenance presented
when he surveyed it in the looking-glass.  After his lecture at the Salt Lake City Theatre
he did not lecture again until we had crossed the Rocky Mountains and arrived at Denver City,
the capital of Colorado.  On the afternoon he was to lecture there I met him coming out of
an ironmonger's store with a small parcel in his hand.  "I want you, old fellow," he said;
"I have been all around the city for them, and I've got them at last."  "Got what?" I asked.
"A pair of curling-tongs.  I am going to have my hair curled to lecture in to-night.  I mean
to cross the plains in curls.  Come home with me and try to curl it for me.  I don't want to
go to any idiot of a barber to be laughed at."  I played the part of friseur. Subsequently
he became his own "curlist," as he phrased it. >From that day forth Artemus was a curly-haired
man.)

(Picture of) The great thoroughfare of the imperial city of the Pacific Coast (with a sign
saying "Artemus Ward, Platts Hall every evening.")

The Chinese form a large element in the population of San Francisco--and I went to the Chinese
Theatre.

A Chinese play often lasts two months.  Commencing at the hero's birth, it is cheerfully conducted
from week to week till he is either killed or married.

The night I was there a Chinese comic vocalist sang a Chinese comic song.  It took him six
weeks to finish it--but as my time was limited, I went away at the expiration of 215 verses.
There were 11,000 verses to this song--the chorus being "Tural lural dural, ri fol day"--which
was repeated twice at the end of each verse--making--as you will at once see--the appalling
number of 22,000 "tural lural dural, ri fol days"--and the man still lives.

(Picture of) Virginia City--in the bright new State of Nevada.  (Virginia City itself is built
on a ledge cut out of the side of Mount Davidson, which rises some 9000 feet above the sea
level--the city being about half way up its side.  To Artemus Ward the wild character of the
scenery, the strange manners of the red-shirted citizens, and the odd developments of the life
met with in that uncouth mountain-town were all replete with interest.  We stayed there about
a week.  During the time of our stay he explored every part of the place, met many old friends
from the Eastern States, and formed many new acquaintances, with some of whom acquaintance
ripened into warm friendship.  Among the latter was Mr. Samuel L. Clemens, now well known as
"Mark Twain." He was then sub-editing one of the three papers published daily in Virginia--"The
Territorial Enterprise."  Artemus detected in the writings of Mark Twain the indications of
great humorous power, and strongly advised the writer to seek a better field for his talents.
Since then he has become a well-known lecturer and author.  With Mark Twain, Artemus made a
descent into the Gould and Curry Silver Mine at Virginia, the largest mine of the kind, I believe
in the world.  The account of the descent formed a long and very amusing article in the next
morning's "Enterprise."  To wander about the town and note its strange developments occupied
Artemus incessantly.  I was sitting writing letters at the hotel when he came in hurriedly,
and requested me to go out with him.  "Come and see some joking much better than mine," said
he.  He led me to where one of Wells, Fargo & Co's express wagons was being rapidly filled
with silver bricks.  Ingots of the precious metal, each almost as large as an ordinary brick,
were being thrown from one man to another to load the wagon, just as bricks or cheeses are
transferred from hand to hand by carters in England.  "Good old jokes those, Hingston.  Good,
solid Babes in the Wood," observed Artemus.  Yet that evening he lectured in "Maguire's Opera
House," Virginia City, to an audience composed chiefly of miners, and the receipts were not
far short of eight hundred dollars.)

A wonderful little city--right in the heart of the famous Washoe silver regions--the mines
of which annually produce over twenty-five millions of solid silver.  This silver is melted
into solid bricks--about the size of ordinary house-bricks--and carted off to San Francisco
with mules. The roads often swarm with these silver wagons.

One hundred and seventy-five miles to the east of this place are the Reese River Silver Mines--which
are supposed to be the richest in the world.

(Pointing to Panorama) The great American Desert in winter time--the desert which is so frightfully
gloomy always.  No trees--no houses--no people--save the miserable beings who live in wretched
huts and have charge of the horses and mules of the Overland Mail Company.

The most celebrated artists of London are so delighted with this picture that they come to
the Hall every day to gaze at it.

When I first showed this picture in New York, the audience were so enthusiastic in their admiration
of this picture that they called for the Artist--and when he appeared they threw brickbats
at him.  (This portion of the panorama was very badly painted.  When the idea of having a panorama
was first entertained by Artemus, he wished to have one of great artistic merit.  Finding considerable
difficulty in procuring one, and also discovering that the expense of a real work of art would
be beyond his means, he resolved on having a very bad one or one so bad in parts that its very
badness would give him scope for jest.  In the small towns of the Western States, it passed
very well for a first-class picture, but what it was really worth in an artistic point of view
its owner was very well aware.)

(Next picture.) A bird's-eye view of Great Salt Lake City-- the strange city in the Desert
about which so much has been heard--the city of the people who call themselves Saints.

I know there is much interest taken in these remarkable people--ladies and gentlemen--and I
have thought it better to make the purely descriptive part of my Entertainment entirely serious.--I
will not--then--for the next ten minutes--confine myself to my subject.

Some seventeen years ago a small band of Mormons--headed by Brigham Young--commenced in the
present thrifty metropolis of Utah.  The population of the territory of Utah is over 100,000--chiefly
Mormons--and they are increasing at the rate of from five to ten thousand annually.  The converts
to Mormonism now are almost exclusively confined to English and Germans--Wales and Cornwall
have contributed largely to the population of Utah during the last few years.  The population
of Great Salt Lake City is 20,000.--The streets are eight rods wide--and are neither flagged
nor paved.  A stream of pure mountain spring water courses through each street--and is conducted
into the Gardens of the Mormons. The houses are mostly of adobe--or sun-dried brick--and present
a neat and comfortable appearance.--They are usually a story and a half high.  Now and then
you see a fine modern house in Salt Lake City--but no house that is dirty, shabby, and dilapidated--because
there are no absolutely poor people in Utah.  Every Mormon has a nice garden--and every Mormon
has a tidy dooryard.--Neatness is a great characteristic of the Mormons.

The Mormons profess to believe that they are the chosen people of God--they call themselves
Latter-day Saints--and they call us people of the outer world Gentiles.  They say that Mr.
Brigham Young is a prophet--the legitimate successor of Joseph Smith--who founded the Mormon
religion. They also say they are authorized--by special revelation from Heaven--to marry as
many wives as they can comfortably support.

This wife-system they call plurality--the world calls it polygamy.  That at its best it is
an accursed thing--I need not of course inform you--but you will bear in mind that I am here
as a rather cheerful reporter of what I saw in Utah --and I fancy it isn't at all necessary
for me to grow virtuously indignant over something we all know is hideously wrong.

You will be surprised to hear--I was amazed to see--that among the Mormon women there are some
few persons of education--of positive cultivation.  As a class the Mormons are not educated
people--but they are by no means the community of ignoramuses so many writers have told us
they were.

The valley in which they live is splendidly favored.  They raise immense crops.  They have
mills of all kinds.  They have coal--lead--and silver mines.  All they eat--all they drink--all
they wear they can produce themselves--and still have a great abundance to sell to the gold
regions of Idaho on the one hand--and the silver regions of Nevada on the other.

The President of this remarkable community--the head of the Mormon Church--is Brigham Young.--He
is called President Young--and Brother Brigham.  He is about 54 years old-- altho' he doesn't
look to be over 45.  He has sandy hair and whiskers--is of medium height--and is a little inclined
to corpulency.  He was born in the State of Vermont.  His power is more absolute than that
of any living sovereign--yet he uses it with such consummate discretion that his people are
almost madly devoted to him--and that they would cheerfully die for him if they thought the
sacrifice were demanded--I cannot doubt.

He is a man of enormous wealth.--One-tenth of everything sold in the territory of Utah goes
to the Church--and Mr. Brigham Young is the Church. It is supposed that he speculates with
these funds--at all events--he is one of the wealthiest men now living--worth several millions--without
doubt.--He is a bold--bad man--but that he is also a man of extraordinary administrative ability
no one can doubt who has watched his astounding career for the past ten years. It is only fair
for me to add that he treated me with marked kindness during my sojourn in Utah.

(Picture of) West Side of Main Street, Salt Lake City.  (A wagon and team stand outside the
"City Bathing House" and a pennant flies over the "temperance hotel.")

The West Side of Main Street--Salt Lake City--including a view of the Salt Lake Hotel.  It
is a temperance hotel.  (At the date of our visit, there was only one place in Salt Lake City
where strong drink was allowed to be sold.  Brigham Young himself owned the property, and vended
the liquor by wholesale, not permitting any of it to be drunk on the premises.  It was a coarse,
inferior kind of whisky, known in Salt Lake as "Valley Tan."  Throughout the city there was
no drinking-bar nor billiard room, so far as I am aware. But a drink on the sly could always
be had at one of the hard-goods stores, in the back office behind the pile of metal saucepans;
or at one of the dry-goods stores, in the little parlor in the rear of the bales of calico.
At the present time I believe that there are two or three open bars in Salt Lake, Brigham Young
having recognized the right of the "Saints" to "liquor up" occasionally.  But whatever other
failings they may have, intemperance cannot be laid to their charge.  Among the Mormons there
are no paupers, no gamblers, and no drunkards.)  I prefer temperance hotels-- altho' they sell
worse liquor than any other kind of hotels. But the Salt Lake Hotel sells none--nor is there
a bar in all Salt Lake City--but I found when I was thirsty--and I generally am--that I could
get some very good brandy of one of the Elders--on the sly--and I never on any account allow
my business to interfere with my drinking.

(Picture of) The Overland Mail Coach.--That is, the den on wheels in which we have been crammed
for the past ten days and ten nights.--Those of you who have been in Newgate (The manner in
which Artemus uttered this joke was peculiarly characteristic of his style of lecturing.  The
commencement of the sentence was spoken as if unpremeditated; then when he had got as far as
the word "Newgate," he paused, as if wishing to call back that which he had said.  The applause
was unfailingly uproarious.)------------------------------- ----------------------------and
stayed there any length of time--as visitors--can realize how I felt.

The American Overland Mail Route commences at Sacramento-- California--and ends at Atchison--Kansas.
The distance is two thousand two hundred miles--but you go part of the way by rail.  The Pacific
Railway is now completed from Sacramento--California--to Fulsom--California--which only leaves
two thousand two hundred and eleven miles, to go by coach.  This breaks the monotony--it came
very near breaking my back.

(Picture of) The Mormon Theatre.

This edifice is the exclusive property of Brigham Young.  It will comfortably hold 3,000 persons--and
I beg you will believe me when I inform you that its interior is quite as brilliant as that
of any theatre in London.  (Herein Artemus slightly exaggerated.  The coloring of the theatre
was white and gold, but it was inefficiently lighted with oil lamps. When Brigham Young himself
showed us round the theatre, he pointed out, as an instance of his own ingenuity, that the
central chandelier was formed out of the wheel of one of his old coaches.  The house is now,
I believe, lighted with gas. Altogether it is a very wondrous edifice, considering where it
is built and who were the builders.)

The actors are all Mormon amateurs, who charge nothing for their services.

You must know that very little money is taken at the doors of this theatre. The Mormons mostly
pay in grain--and all sorts of articles.

The night I gave my little lecture there--among my receipts were corn--flour--pork--cheese--chickens--on
foot and in the shell.

One family went in on a live pig--and a man attempted to pass a "yaller dog" at the Box Office--but
my agent repulsed him.  One offered me a doll for admission--another infants' clothing.--I
refused to take that.--As a general rule I do refuse.

In the middle of the parquet--in a rocking chair--with his hat on--sits Brigham Young.  When
the play drags--he either goes out or falls into a tranquil sleep.

A portion of the dress-circle is set apart for the wives of Brigham Young. From ten to twenty
of them are usually present.  His children fill the entire gallery--and more too.

(Picture of) East Side of Main Street, Salt Lake City.

The East Side of Main Street--Salt Lake City--with a view of the Council Building--The legislature
of Utah meets there. It is like all legislative bodies.  They meet this winter to repeal the
laws which they met and made last winter--and they will meet next winter to repeal the laws
which they met and made this winter.

I dislike to speak about it--but it was in Utah that I made the great speech of my life.  I
wish you could have heard it.  I have a fine education.  You may have noticed it.  I speak
six different languages--London--Chatham--and Dover-- Margate--Brighton--and Hastings.  My
parents sold a cow-- and sent me to college when I was quite young.  During the vacation I
used to teach a school of whales--and there's where I learned to spout.--I don't expect applause
for a little thing like that.  I wish you could have heard that speech--however.  If Cicero--he's
dead now--he has gone from us--but if old Ciss (Here again no description can adequately inform
the reader of the drollery which characterized the lecturer.  His reference to Cicero was made
in the most lugubrious manner, as if he really deplored his death and valued him as a schoolfellow
loved and lost.) could have heard that effort it would have given him the rinderpest.  I'll
tell you how it was.  There are stationed in Utah two regiments of U.S. troops--the 21st from
California--and the 37th from Nevada.  The 20-onesters asked me to present a stand of colors
to the 37-sters--and I did it in a speech so abounding in eloquence of a bold and brilliant
character--and also some sweet talk--real pretty shopkeeping talk--that I worked the enthusiasm
of those soldiers up to such a pitch--that they came very near shooting me on the spot.

(Picture of) Brigham Young's Harem.--These are the houses of Brigham Young. The first on the
right is the Lion House--so called because a crouching stone lion adorns the central front
window.  The adjoining small building is Brigham Young's office--and where he receives his
visitors.--The large house in the centre of the picture--which displays a huge bee-hive--is
called the Bee House--the bee-hive is supposed to be symbolical of the industry of the Mormons.--
Mrs. Brigham Young the first--now quite an old lady--lives here with her children.  None of
the other wives of the prophet live here.  In the rear are the schoolhouses where Brigham Young's
children are educated.

Brigham Young has two hundred wives.  Just think of that! Oblige me by thinking of that.  That
is--he has eighty actual wives, and he is spiritually married to one hundred and twenty more.
These spiritual marriages--as the Mormons call them--are contracted with aged widows--who think
it a great honor to be sealed--the Mormons call it being sealed-- to the Prophet.

So we may say he has two hundred wives.  He loves not wisely--but two hundred well.  He is
dreadfully married. He's the most married man I ever saw in my life.

I saw his mother-in-law while I was there.  I can't exactly tell you how many there is of her--but
it's a good deal.  It strikes me that one mother-in-law is about enough to have in a family--unless
you're very fond of excitement.

A few days before my arrival in Utah--Brigham was married again--to a young and really pretty
girl--but he says he shall stop now.  He told me confidentially that he shouldn't get married
any more.  He says that all he wants now is to live in peace for the remainder of his days--and
have his dying pillow soothed by the loving hands of his family. Well--that's all right--that's
all right--I suppose--but if ALL his family soothe his dying pillow--he'll have to go out-doors
to die.

By the way--Shakespeare indorses polygamy.--He speaks of the Merry Wives of Windsor.  How many
wives did Mr. Windsor have?--but we will let this pass.

Some of these Mormons have terrific families.  I lectured one night by invitation in the Mormon
village of Provost, but during the day I rashly gave a leading Mormon an order admitting himself
and family--it was before I knew that he was much married--and they filled the room to overflowing.
It was a great success--but I didn't get any money.

(Picture of) Heber C. Kimball's Harem.--Mr. C. Kimball is the first vice-president of the Mormon
church--and would-- consequently--succeed to the full presidency on Brigham Young's death.

Brother Kimball is a gay and festive cuss of some seventy summers--or some'ers thereabout.
He has one thousand head of cattle and a hundred head of wives.  (It is an authenticated fact
that, in an address to his congregation in the Tabernacle, Heber C. Kimball once alluded to
his wives by the endearing epithet of "my heifers;" and on another occasion politely spoke
of them as "his cows."  It killed him.  I should have thought it would.

(Soft music.)  (Here Artemus Ward's pianist [following instructions] sometimes played the dead
march from "Saul." At other times, the Welsh air of "Poor Mary Anne;" or anything else replete
with sadness which might chance to strike his fancy.

(Picture.)  This is the Mormon Temple.

It is built of adobe--and will hold five thousand persons quite comfortably.  A full brass
and string band often assists the choir of this church--and the choir--I may add-- is a remarkably
good one.

Brigham Young seldom preaches now.  The younger elders-- unless on some special occasion--conduct
the services.  I only heard Mr. Young once.  He is not an educated man--but speaks with considerable
force and clearness.  The day I was there there was nothing coarse in his remarks.

(Picture of) The foundations of the Temple.

These are the foundations of the magnificent Temple the Mormons are building.  It is to be
built of hewn stone--and will cover several acres of ground.  They say it shall eclipse in
splendor all other temples in the world.  They also say it shall be paved with solid gold.

It is perhaps worthy of remark that the architect of this contemplated gorgeous affair repudiated
Mormonism--and is now living in London.

(Picture of) The Temple as it is to be.

This pretty little picture is from the architect's design-- and cannot therefore--I suppose--be
called a fancy sketch. (Artemus had the windows of the temple in his panorama cut out and filled
in with transparent colored paper, so that, when lighted from behind, it had the effect of
one of the little plaster churches, with a piece of lighted candle inside, which the Italian
image-boys display at times for sale in the streets.  Nothing in the course of the evening
pleased Artemus more than to notice the satisfaction with which this meretricious piece of
absurdity was received by the audience.)

Should the Mormons continue unmolested--I think they will complete this rather remarkable edifice.

(Picture of the) Great Salt Lake.

Great Salt Lake.--The great salt dead sea of the desert.

I know of no greater curiosity than this inland sea of thick brine.  It is eighty miles wide--and
one hundred and thirty miles long.  Solid masses of salt are daily washed ashore in immense
heaps--and the Mormon in want of salt has only to go to the shore of this lake and fill his
cart.  Only--the salt for table use has to be subjected to a boiling process.

These are facts--susceptible of the clearest possible proof. They tell one story about this
lake--however--that I have my doubts about.  They say a Mormon farmer drove forty head of cattle
in there once--and they came out firstrate pickled beef.--

         *     *     *     *     *

         *     *     *     *     *

         *     *     *     *     *

I sincerely hope you will excuse my absence--I am a man short--and have to work the moon myself.
(Here Artemus would leave the rostrum for a few moments, and pretend to be engaged behind.
The picture was painted for a night-scene, and the effect intended to be produced was that
of the moon rising over the lake and rippling on the waters.  It was produced in the usual
dioramic way, by making the track of the moon transparent and throwing the moon on from the
bull's eye of the lantern.  When Artemus went behind, the moon would become nervous and flickering,
dancing up and down in the most inartistic and undecided manner.

(Picture of) The Endowment House.

In this building the Mormon is initiated into the mysteries of the faith.

Strange stories are told of the proceedings which are held in this building--but I have no
possible means of knowing how true they may be.

Salt Lake City is fifty-five miles behind us--and this is Echo Canyon--in reaching which we
are supposed to have crossed the summit of the Wahsatch Mountains.  These ochre-colored bluffs--formed
of conglomerate sandstone--and full of fossils--signal the entrance to the Canyon.  At its
base lies Weber Station.

Echo Canyon is about twenty-five miles long.  It is really the sublimest thing between the
Missouri and the Sierra Nevada.  The red wall to the left develops farther up the Canyon into
pyramids--buttresses--and castles--honey-combed and fretted in nature's own massive magnificence
of architecture.

In 1856--Echo Canyon was the place selected by Brigham Young for the Mormon General Wells to
fortify and make impregnable against the advance of the American army--led by General Albert
Sidney Johnson.  It was to have been the Thermopylae of Mormondom--but it wasn't general Wells
was to have done Leonidas--but he didn't.

(Picture of) Echo Canyon.

(Picture of) A more cheerful view of the Desert.

