CLARISSA HARLOWE

or the

HISTORY OF A YOUNG LADY

Nine Volumes Volume IV.

CONTENTS OF VOLUME IV

LETTER I.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- Likes her lodgings; but not greatly the widow.  Chides
Miss Howe for her rash, though friendly vow.  Catalogue of good books she finds in her closet.
Utterly dissatisfied with him for giving out to the women below that they were privately married.
Has a strong debate with him on this subject.  He offers matrimony to her, but in such a manner
that she could not close with his offer.  Her caution as to doors, windows, and seals of letters.

LETTER II.  Miss Howe to Clarissa.-- Her expedient to correspond with each other every day.
Is glad she had thoughts of marrying him had he repeated his offer.  Wonders he did not.

LETTER III.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- Breakfasts with him and the widow, and her two nieces.
Observations upon their behaviour and looks.  He makes a merit of leaving her, and hopes, ON
HIS RETURN, that she will name his happy day.  She is willing to make the best constructions
in his favour.

In his next letter (extracts from which are only given) he triumphs on the points he has carried.
Stimulated by the women, he resumes his resolution to try her to the utmost.

LETTER IV.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- Lovelace returns the next day.  She thinks herself meanly
treated, and is angry.  He again urges marriage; but before she can return his answer makes
another proposal; yet she suspects not that he means a studied delay.  He is in treaty for
Mrs. Fretchville's house.  Description of it. An inviting opportunity offers for him to propose
matrimony to her.  She wonders he let it slip.  He is very urgent for her company at a collation
he is to give to four of his select friends, and Miss Partington.  He gives an account who
Miss Partington is.

In Mr. Lovelace's next letter he invites Belford, Mowbray, Belton, and Tourville, to his collation.
His humourous instructions for their behaviour before the lady.  Has two views in getting her
into their company.

LETTER V.  Lovelace to Belford.-- Has been at church with Clarissa.  The sabbath a charming
institution. The text startles him.  Nathan the prophet he calls a good ingenious fellow. 
She likes the women better than she did at first.  She reluctantly consents to honour his collation
with her presence.  Longs to have their opinions of his fair prize.  Describes her to great
advantage.

LETTER VI.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- She praises his good behaviour at St. Paul's.  Is prevailed
on to dine with Mrs. Sinclair and her nieces.  Is better pleased with them than she thought
she should be.  Blames herself for her readiness to censure, where reputation is concerned.
Her charitable allowances on this head. This day an agreeable day.  Interprets ever thing she
can fairly interpret in Mr. Lovelace's favour.  She could prefer him to all the men she ever
knew, if he would always be what he had been that day.  Is determined, as much as possible,
by true merit, and by deeds.  Dates again, and is offended at Miss Partington's being introduced
to her, and at his making her yield to be present at his intended collation.

LETTER VII.  From the same.-- Disgusted wit her evening.  Characterizes his four companions.
Likes not Miss Partington's behaviour.

LETTER VIII.  From the same.-- An attempt to induce her to admit Miss Partington to a share
in her bed for that night.  She refuses.  Her reasons.  Is highly dissatisfied.

LETTER IX.  From the same.-- Has received an angry letter from Mrs. Howe, forbidding her to
correspond with her daughter.  She advises compliance, though against herself; and, to induce
her to it, makes the best of her present prospects.

LETTER X.  Miss Howe.  In answer.-- Flames out upon this step of her mother.  Insists upon
continuing the correspondence.  Her menaces if Clarissa write not.  Raves against Lovelace.
But blames her for not obliging Miss Partington: and why. Advises her to think of settlements.
Likes Lovelace's proposal of Mrs. Fretchville's house.

LETTER XI.  Clarissa.  In reply.-- Terrified at her menaces, she promises to continue writing.
Beseeches her to learn to subdue her passions.  Has just received her clothes.

LETTER XII.  Mr. Hickman to Clarissa.-- Miss Howe, he tells her, is uneasy for the vexation
she has given her. If she will write on as before, Miss Howe will not think of doing what she
is so apprehensive of.  He offers her his most faithful services.

LETTER XIII. XIV.  Lovelace to Belford.-- Tells him how much the lady dislikes the confraternity;
Belford as well as the rest.  Has a warm debate with her in her behalf.  Looks upon her refusing
a share in her bed to Miss Partington as suspecting and defying him.  Threatens her.--Savagely
glories in her grief, on receiving Miss Howe's prohibitory letter: which appears to be instigated
by himself.

LETTER XV.  Belford to Lovelace.-- His and his compeer's high admiration of Clarissa.  They
all join to entreat him to do her justice.

LETTER XVI. XVII.  Lovelace.  In answer.-- He endeavours to palliate his purposes by familiar
instances of cruelty to birds, &c.--Farther characteristic reasonings in support of his wicked
designs.  The passive condition to which he wants to bring the lady.

LETTER XVIII. Belford.  In reply.-- Still warmly argues in behalf of the lady.  Is obliged
to attend a dying uncle: and entreats him to write from time to time an account of all his
proceedings.

LETTER XIX.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- Lovelace, she says, complains of the reserves he gives
occasion for.  His pride a dirty low pride, which has eaten up his prudence.  He is sunk in
her opinion.  An afflicting letter sent her from her cousin Morden.

Encloses the letter.  In which her cousin (swayed by the representations of her brother) pleads
in behalf of Solmes, and the family-views; and sets before her, in strong and just lights,
the character of a libertine.

Her heavy reflections upon the contents.  Her generous prayer.

LETTER XX.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- He presses her to go abroad with him; yet mentions not
the ceremony that should give propriety to his urgency.  Cannot bear the life she lives. Wishes
her uncle Harlowe to be sounded by Mr. Hickman, as to a reconciliation.  Mennell introduced
to her.  Will not take another step with Lovelace till she know the success of the proposed
application to her uncle.

Substance of two letters from Lovelace to Belford; in which he tells him who Mennell is, and
gives an account of many new contrivances and precautions.  Women's pockets ballast-bags. 
Mrs. Sinclair's wardrobe. Good order observed in her house.  The lady's caution, he says, warrants
his contrivances.

LETTER XXI.  Lovelace to Belford.-- Will write a play.  The title of it, The Quarrelsome Lovers.
Perseverance his glory; patience his hand-maid.  Attempts to get a letter the lady had dropt
as she sat.  Her high indignation upon it.  Farther plots.  Paul Wheatly, who; and for what
employed.  Sally Martin's reproaches.  Has overplotted himself.  Human nature a well-known rogue.

LETTER XXII.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- Acquaints her with their present quarrel.  Finds it
imprudent to stay with him.  Re-urges the application to her uncle.  Cautions her sex with
regard to the danger of being misled by the eye.

LETTER XXIII.  Miss Howe.  In answer.-- Approves of her leaving Lovelace.  New stories of his
wickedness.  Will have her uncle sounded.  Comforts her.  How much her case differs from that
of any other female fugitive.  She will be an example, as well as a warning.  A picture of
Clarissa's happiness before she knew Lovelace. Brief sketches of her exalted character.  Adversity
her shining time.

LETTER XXIV.  Clarissa.  In reply.-- Has a contest with Lovelace about going to church.  He
obliges her again to accept of his company to St. Paul's.

LETTER XXV.  Miss Howe to Mrs. Norton.-- Desiring her to try to dispose Mrs. Harlowe to forward
a reconciliation.

LETTER XXVI.  Mrs. Norton.  In answer.

LETTER XXVII.  Miss Howe.  In reply.

LETTER XXVIII.  Mrs. Harlowe's pathetic letter to Mrs. Norton.

LETTER XXIX.  Miss Howe to Clarissa.-- Fruitless issue of Mr. Hickman's application to her
uncle.  Advises her how to proceed with, and what to say to, Lovelace.  Endeavours to account
for his teasing ways.  Who knows, she says, but her dear friend was permitted to swerve, in
order to bring about his reformation?  Informs her of her uncle Antony's intended address to
her mother.

LETTER XXX.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.-- Hard fate to be thrown upon an ungenerous and cruel man.
Reasons why she cannot proceed with Mr. Lovelace as she advises.  Affecting apostrophe to Lovelace.

LETTER XXXI.  From the same.-- Interesting conversation with Lovelace.  He frightens her. 
He mentions settlements.  Her modest encouragements of him.  He evades.  True generosity what.
She requires his proposals of settlements in writing. Examines herself on her whole conduct
to Lovelace.  Maidenly niceness not her motive for the distance she has kept him at.  What
is.  Invites her correction if she deceive herself.

LETTER XXXII.  From the same.-- With Mr. Lovelace's written proposals.  Her observations on
the cold conclusion of them.  He knows not what every wise man knows, of the prudence and delicacy
required in a wife.

LETTER XXXIII.  From the same.-- Mr. Lovelace presses for the day; yet makes a proposal which
must necessarily occasion a delay.  Her unreserved and pathetic answer to it. He is affected
by it.  She rejoices that he is penetrable.  He presses for her instant resolution; but at
the same time insinuates delay. Seeing her displeased, he urges for the morrow: but, before
she can answer, gives her the alternative of other days.  Yet, wanting to reward himself, as
if he had obliged her, she repulses him on a liberty he would have taken. The ladies and the servants
were pressed their noses as they passed the door of the patient. Meanwhile, Dona Guiomar never
left his bedside for a moment as if to offer the Lord the double moral and physical torture that
stretched to her room closed. Ramiro returned as soon as he could.

Upon entering the city through the Puerta del Puente, one of the guards said to him: - Your honor
late. It took the grandfather.

Don Inigo had been buried the previous day.

When the youth entered the stables who lived in the old, it seemed,
the first steps, which could not proceed, such was the stench that
hung in the confined environment.

The bed was as he had left the agony, and the pillow with the signal so you do not ponder and
dream again about his softness. The boats of medicines, the convict, mortar,
cups, bands, everything had been upset and confused about the furniture,
suggesting the anxiety of the fight last time.

"He went to the bookstore and looking at the volumes piled on the
floor and glasses horn marking the page of a folio, another day to
continue reading; to see, hanging on a nail, the yellow shoes, which
kept the old paint brushes with which labels, and beyond, into a corner,
the gouty leg stool, blackened by the grease from the ointment, he
felt in his spirit of sadness.

That was the end of all our efforts. There was, in runoff from this being, that lesson, that advice,
always ambiguous, which encourages both enjoyment and penance.

When everything had calmed down and the lot fell silent again in its monotony, called Dona Guiomar
alone with his son and told him, briefly, the state in which Don Inigo
left them the old property. They were completely ruined. He had lived until
then, delaying the final collapse force extreme cases, pledging to the
Genoese, one by one, all goods, and selling, finally, on racks, silverware,
jewelry, tapestries.

The butler flamenco, which was, according to her, the only person who knew the house in heritage
management, and perhaps would have managed new taxes, had just left
for his country, to collect an inheritance.

But they had no sun, determined almost entirely, and some shields stored in a chest, which will
soon be exhausted. It was necessary therefore to sell the mansion
and resign ourselves to live in a modest house in the suburbs. -
Anyway - said Dona Guiomar - and you do not need a lot of money.

The Holy Church purest goods demand, and now I think you can take the same suspicion theology
seminary of this city. Ramiro heard her mother with genuine amazement. Ruined! Could it be?
Do all large flow coming to them for countless alliances, from the most remote ancestors, all those
favors of the Kings, all those lordships of Segovia, all the houses and lands in Avila and their
land, which appeared mented each step in their scrolls? In other circumstances would not have cared
poverty, knowing that the lack of finances pushed the heroic adventures. But now, his instinct
sensed a loving disaster, because of those lost assets. He lowered his head in silence and, after
a moment of meditation, declared himself to his mother something
that he himself had not yet determined: the intention to marry Beatrice,
and although his voice was altered, said to him, also the great crime
we remain hopeful that it would be wrong with their church vocation.

Doña Guiomar not even blink, but his hands nervously rubbed the arms of the chair where she sat.
Ramiro Then, turning to her knee, took him to frenzy both hands and
staring into the eyes, asked to help their designs and, for the love
of God, not to sell the site, to think about the impression that occur
in the spirit of Don Alonso and his daughter that act diminished.
- I will try to ginoveses - added - something that will entregalles;
still remain my furniture and stone dagger, but for my honor!, do
not sell the solar, mother, do not sell, do not sell the lot!

She rose slowly, his left hand on his breast: - With what you just
said - said - my life in the century is over.

You are now the master. Order, and that His Divine Majesty to forgive you. His face was strange. The
pain made her smile too.
  The occasion.  Alarms and terrifies her by his free address. Romping,
the use of it by a lover.  Will try if she will not yield to nightly surprises.  A lion-hearted
lady where her honour is concerned. Must have recourse to his master-strokes.  Fable of the
sun and north wind.  Mrs. Fretchville's house an embarrass.  He gives that pretended lady the
small-pox.  Other contrivances in his head to bring Clarissa back, if she should get away.
Miss Howe's scheme of Mrs. Townsend is, he says, a sword hanging over his head.  He must change
his measures to render it abortive.  He is of the true lady-make.  What that is.  Another conversation
between them.  Her apostrophe to her father.  He is temporarily moved.  Dorcas gives him notice
of a paper she has come at, and is transcribing.  In order to detain the lady, he presses for
the day.  Miss Howe he fancies in love with him; and why.  He sees Clarissa does not hate him.

LETTER XLVIII.  From the same.-- Copy of the transcribed paper.  It proves to be her torn answer
to his proposals.  Meekness the glory of a woman.  Ludicrous image of a termagant wife.  He
had better never to have seen this paper.  Has very strong remorses.  Paints them in lively
colours.  Sets forth the lady's transcendent virtue, and greatness of mind.  Surprised into
these arguments in her favour by his conscience.  Puts it to flight.

LETTER XLIX.  From the same.-- Mennell scruples to aid him farther in his designs.  Vapourish
people the physical tribe's milch-cows.  Advice to the faculty.  Has done with the project
about Mrs. Fretchville's house.  The lady suspects him.  A seasonable letter for him from his
cousin Charlotte.  Sends up the letter to the lady.  She writes to Miss Howe, upon perusing
it, to suspend for the present her application to Mrs. Townsend.

LETTER L.  From the same.-- An interview all placid and agreeable.  Now is he in a train. 
All he now waits for is a letter from Lord M.  Inquires after their marriage by a stranger
of good appearance.  The lady alarmed at them.

LETTER LI.  Lovelace to Belford.-- Curses his uncle for another proverbial letter he has sent
him.  Permits the lady to see it.  Nine women in ten that fall, fall, he says, through their
own fault.

LETTER LII.  Lord M.'s characteristic letter.

LETTER LIII.  Lovelace to Belford.-- The lady now comes to him at the first word.  Triumphs
in her sweetness of temper, and on her patience with him.  Puts his writings into counsellor
Williams's hands, to prepare settlements.  Shall now be doubly armed.  Boasts of his contrivances
in petto.  Brings patterns to her. Proposes jewels.  Admires her for her prudence with regard
to what he puts her upon doing for her Norton.  What his wife must do and be.  She declines
a public wedding.  Her dutiful reasons.  She is willing to dispense with Lord M.'s presence.
He writes to Lord M. accordingly.

Extract from a letter from Clarissa.-- After giving Miss Howe an account of the present favourable
appearances, she desires her to keep herself all such of the particulars which she has communicated
to her as may discredit Mr. Lovelace.

LETTER LIV.  Lovelace to Belford.-- His projected plot to revenge himself upon Miss Howe.

LETTER LV.  From the same.-- Fresh contrivances crowd in upon him.  He shall be very sick on
the morrow; and why.  Women below impertinently reproachful.  He will be no man's successor.
Will not take up with harlots.--History of the French marquis.

At length, my dearest Miss Howe, I am in London, and in my new lodgings. They are neatly furnished,
and the situation, for the town, is pleasant.

But I think you must not ask me how I like the old gentlewoman.  Yet she seems courteous and
obliging.--Her kinswomen just appeared to welcome me at my alighting.  They seemed to be genteel
young women.  But more of their aunt and them, as I shall see more.

Miss Sorlings has an uncle at Barnet, whom she found so very ill, that her uneasiness, on that
account, (having large expectations from him,) made me comply with her desire to stay with
him.  Yet I wished, as her uncle did not expect her, that she would see me settled in London;
and Mr. Lovelace was still more earnest that she would, offering to send her back again in
a day or two, and urging that her uncle's malady threatened not a sudden change.  But leaving
the matter to her choice, after she knew what would have been mine, she made me not the expected
compliment. Mr. Lovelace, however, made her a handsome present at parting.

His genteel spirit, on all occasions, makes he often wish him more consistent.

As soon as he arrived, I took possession of my apartment.  I shall make good use of the light
closet in it, if I stay here any time.

One of his attendants returns in the morning to The Lawn; and I made writing to you by him
an excuse for my retiring.

And now give me leave to chide you, my dearest friend, for your rash, and I hope revocable
resolution not to make Mr. Hickman the happiest man in the world, while my happiness is in
suspense.  Suppose I were to be unhappy, what, my dear, would this resolution of yours avail
me? Marriage is the highest state of friendship: if happy, it lessens our cares, by dividing
them, at the same time that it doubles our pleasures by a mutual participation.  Why, my dear,
if you love me, will you not rather give another friend to one who has not two she is sure
of?  Had you married on your mother's last birth-day, as she would have had you, I should not,
I dare say, have wanted a refuge; that would have saved me many mortifications, and much disgrace.

***

Here I was broke in upon by Mr. Lovelace; introducing the widow leading in a kinswoman of her's
to attend me, if I approved of her, till my Hannah should come, or till I had provided myself
with some other servant.  The widow gave her many good qualities; but said, that she had one
great defect; which was, that she could not write, nor read writing; that part of her education
having been neglected when she was young; but for discretion, fidelity, obligingness, she was
not to be out-done by any body.  So commented her likewise for her skill at the needle.

As for her defect, I can easily forgive that.  She is very likely and genteel--too genteel
indeed, I think, for a servant.  But what I like least of all in her, she has a strange sly
eye.  I never saw such an eye; half-confident, I think.  But indeed Mrs. Sinclair herself,
(for that is the widow's name,) has an odd winking eye; and her respectfulness seems too much
studied, methinks, for the London ease and freedom.  But people can't help their looks, you
know; and after all she is extremely civil and obliging,--and as for the young woman, (Dorcas
is her name,) she will not be long with me.

I accepted her: How could I do otherwise, (if I had had a mind to make objections, which, in
my present situation, I had not,) her aunt present, and the young woman also present; and Mr.
Lovelace officious in his introducing them, to oblige me?  But, upon their leaving me, I told
him, (who seemed inclinable to begin a conversation with me,) that I desired that this apartment
might be considered as my retirement: that when I saw him it might be in the dining-room, (which
is up a few stairs; for this back-house, being once two, the rooms do not all of them very
conveniently communicate with each other,) and that I might be as little broken in upon as
possible, when I am here.  He withdrew very respectfully to the door, but there stopt; and
asked for my company then in the dining-room.  If he were about setting out for other lodgings,
I would go with him now, I told him; but, if he did not just then go, I would first finish
my letter to Miss Howe.

I see he has no mind to leave me if he can help it.  My brother's scheme may give him a pretence
to try to engage me to dispense with his promise. But if I now do I must acquit him of it entirely.

My approbation of his tender behaviour in the midst of my grief, has given him a right, as
he seems to think, of addressing me with all the freedom of an approved lover.  I see by this
man, that when once a woman embarks with this sex, there is no receding.  One concession is
but the prelude to another with them.  He has been ever since Sunday last continually complaining
of the distance I keep him at; and thinks himself entitled now to call in question my value
for him; strengthening his doubts by my former declared readiness to give him up to a reconciliation
with my friends; and yet has himself fallen off from that obsequious tenderness, if I may couple
the words, which drew from me the concessions he builds upon.

While we were talking at the door, my new servant came up with an invitation to us both to
tea.  I said he might accept of it, if he pleased: but I must pursue my writing; and not choosing
either tea or supper, I desired him to make my excuses below, as to both; and inform them of
my choice to be retired as much as possible; yet to promise for me my attendance on the widow
and her nieces at breakfast in the morning.

He objected particularly in the eye of strangers as to avoiding supper.

You know, said I, and you can tell them, that I seldom eat suppers.  My spirits are low.  You
must never urge me against a declared choice. Pray, Mr. Lovelace, inform them of all my particularities.
If they are obliging, they will allow for them--I come not hither to make new acquaintance.

I have turned over the books I found in my closet; and am not a little pleased with them; and
think the better of the people of the house for their sakes.

Stanhope's Gospels; Sharp's, Tillotson's, and South's Sermons; Nelson's Feasts and Fasts; a
Sacramental Piece of the Bishop of Man, and another of Dr. Gauden, Bishop of Exeter; and Inett's
Devotions, are among the devout books:--and among those of a lighter turn, the following not
ill- chosen ones: A Telemachus, in French; another in English; Steel's, Rowe's, and Shakespeare's
Plays; that genteel Comedy of Mr. Cibber, The Careless Husband, and others of the same author;
Dryden's Miscellanies; the Tatlers, Spectators, and Guardians; Pope's, and Swift's, and Addison's
Works.

In the blank leaves of the Nelson and Bishop Gauden, is Mrs. Sinclair's name; and in those
of most of the others, either Sarah Martin, or Mary Horton, the names of the two nieces.

***

I am exceedingly out of humour with Mr. Lovelace: and have great reason to be so, as you will
allow, when you have read the conversation I am going to give you an account of; for he would
not let me rest till I gave him my company in the dining-room.

He began with letting me know, that he had been out to inquire after the character of the widow,
which was the more necessary, he said, as he supposed that I would expect his frequent absence.

I did, I said; and that he would not think of taking up his lodging in the same house with
me.  But what, said I, is the result of your inquiry?

Why, indeed, the widow's character was, in the main, what he liked well enough.  But as it
was Miss Howe's opinion, as I had told him, that my brother had not given over his scheme;
as the widow lived by letting lodgings, and had others to let in the same part of the house,
which might be taken by an enemy; he knew no better way than for him to take them all, as it
could not be for a long time, unless I would think of removing to others.

So far was well enough.  But as it was easy for me to see, that he spoke the slighter of the
widow, in order to have a pretence to lodge here himself, I asked him his intention in that
respect.  And he frankly owned, that if I chose to stay here, he could not, as matters stood,
think of leaving me for six hours together; and he had prepared the widow to expect, that we
should be here but for a few days; only till we could fix ourselves in a house suitable to
our condition; and this, that I might be under the less embarrassment, if I pleased to remove.

Fix our-selves in a house, and we, and our, Mr. Lovelace--Pray, in what light--

He interrupted me--Why, my dearest life, if you will hear me with patience--yet, I am half
afraid that I have been too forward, as I have not consulted you upon it--but as my friends
in town, according to what Mr. Doleman has written, in the letter you have seen, conclude us
to be married--

Surely, Sir, you have not presumed--

Hear me out, my dearest creature--you have received with favour, my addresses: you have made
me hope for the honour of your consenting hand: yet, by declining my most fervent tender of
myself to you at Mrs. Sorlings's, have given me apprehensions of delay: I would not for the
world be thought so ungenerous a wretch, now you have honoured me with your confidence, as
to wish to precipitate you.  Yet your brother's schemes are not given up.  Singleton, I am
afraid, is actually in town; his vessel lies at Rotherhithe--your brother is absent from Harlowe-
place; indeed not with Singleton yet, as I can hear.  If you are known to be mine, or if you
are but thought to be so, there will probably be an end of your brother's contrivances.  The
widow's character may be as worthy as it is said to be.  But the worthier she is, the more
danger, if your brother's agent should find us out; since she may be persuaded, that she ought
in conscience to take a parent's part against a child who stands in opposition to them.  But
if she believes us married, her good character will stand us instead, and give her a reason
why two apartments are requisite for us at the hour of retirement.

I perfectly raved at him.  I would have flung from him in resentment; but he would not let
me: and what could I do?  Whither go, the evening advanced?

I am astonished at you! said I.--If you are a man of honour, what need of all this strange
obliquity?  You delight in crooked ways--let me know, since I must stay in your company (for
he held my hand), let me know all you have said to the people below.--Indeed, indeed, Mr. Lovelace,
you are a very unaccountable man.

My dearest creature, need I to have mentioned any thing of this? and could I not have taken
up my lodgings in this house unknown to you, if I had not intended to make you the judge of
all my proceedings?--But this is what I have told the widow before her kinswomen, and before
your new servant--'That indeed we were privately married at Hertford; but that you had preliminarily
bound me under a solemn vow, which I am most religiously resolved to keep, to be contented
with separate apartments, and even not to lodge under the same roof, till a certain reconciliation
shall take place, which is of high consequence to both.'  And further that I might convince
you of the purity of my intentions, and that my whole view in this was to prevent mischief,
I have acquainted them, 'that I have solemnly promised to behave to you before every body,
as if we were only betrothed, and not married; not even offering to take any of those innocent
freedoms which are not refused in the most punctilious loves.'

And then he solemnly vowed to me the strictest observance of the same respectful behaviour to me. 

Since then decided to go catch him, and followed their march to the river of Juliaca, who commanded
the cavalry wade across, intending to attack the rebels suddenly, but suspended him, for having
advised the priest of Taraco, which the Indians were crossing the river of Saman, distant six
leagues.

With this notice is sent to the 24 rifle and 60 lancers: but when he arrived it had passed abruptly
with the news that was acquired in Juliaca. Without stopping an instant board ordered the few who wore,
and at two o'clock in the morning came to pass that river stop flowing, and immediately went in
search of the enemy, who favored the dark of night, had retired to greater distance. Walking
followed five leagues, because he could not pass the mules and horses, and this line reached a
piece of 52 rebels at 6 am, who summoned him to surrender to the cruel Nicolas Sanca, which
with the title of Colonel Tupac-Amaru, caused those riots: but they
said with reproach, calling them rebels and rebels, and then rushed
furious: dare they paid, leaving him dead all undertaken. Among the
papers that he found, had some original cars in testimony, which had
fought the traitor Tupac-Amaru, led to expedite the recruitment needed,
which prevented the punishment of the pastors and other clergy who
opposed his orders: and also found a letter from a mayor, quoting
the chief justice of the province of Azangaro, as the rebel, to stay
together in Chingora with Ingaricona Andres, also commissioned to
gather the Indians of the peoples of Achaya, Nicasio and Calapuja,
all built with the above Nicolas Sanca, rushed troops to the body
of Orellana, while passing the river of Juliaca: novelty him back
immediately to find the rest of his troops had found and crossed the
river, and careful of that meeting, it was suggested thwarting at
any cost.

  He
has now given me a stronger reason for this determination than I had before.

***

Alas! my dear, how vain a thing to say, what we will, or what we will not do, when we have
put ourselves into the power of this sex!--He went down to the people below, on my desiring
to be left to myself; and staid till their supper was just ready; and then, desiring a moment's
audience, as he called it, he besought my leave to stay that one night, promising to set out
either for Lord M.'s, or for Edgeware, to his friend Belford's, in the morning, after breakfast.
But if I were against it, he said, he would not stay supper; and would attend me about eight
next day--yet he added, that my denial would have a very particular appearance to the people
below, from what he had told them; and the more, as he had actually agreed for all the vacant
apartments, (indeed only for a month,) for the reasons he before hinted at: but I need not
stay here two days, if, upon conversing with the widow and her nieces in the morning, I should
have any dislike to them.

I thought, notwithstanding my resolution above-mentioned, that it would seem too punctilious
to deny him, under the circumstances he had mentioned: having, besides, no reason to think
he would obey me; for he looked as if he were determined to debate the matter with me.  And
now, as I see no likelihood of a reconciliation with my friends, and as I have actually received
his addresses, I thought I would not quarrel with him, if I could help it, especially as he
asked to stay but for one night, and could have done so without my knowing it; and you being
of opinion, that the proud wretch, distrusting his own merits with me, or at least my regard
for him, will probably bring me to some concessions in his favour --for all these reasons,
I thought proper to yield this point: yet I was so vexed with him on the other, that it was
impossible for me to comply with that grace which a concession should be made with, or not
made at all.

This was what I said--What you will do, you must do, I think.  You are very ready to promise;
very ready to depart from your promise.  You say, however, that you will set out to-morrow
for the country.  You know how ill I have been.  I am not well enough now to debate with you
upon your encroaching ways.  I am utterly dissatisfied with the tale you have told below. 
Nor will I promise to appear to the people of the house to-morrow what I am not.

He withdrew in the most respectful manner, beseeching me only to favour him with such a meeting
in the morning as might not make the widow and her nieces think he had given me reason to be
offended with him.

I retired to my own apartment, and Dorcas came to me soon after to take my commands.  I told
her, that I required very little attendance, and always dressed and undressed myself.

She seemed concerned, as if she thought I had repulsed her; and said, it should be her whole
study to oblige me.

I told her, that I was not difficult to be pleased: and should let her know from time to time
what assistance I should expect from her.  But for that night I had no occasion for her further
attendance.

She is not only genteel, but is well bred, and well spoken--she must have had what is generally
thought to be the polite part of education: but it is strange, that fathers and mothers should
make so light, as they generally do, of that preferable part, in girls, which would improve
their minds, and give a grace to all the rest.

As soon as she was gone, I inspected the doors, the windows, the wainscot, the dark closet
as well as the light one; and finding very good fastenings to the door, and to all the windows,
I again had recourse to my pen.

***

Mrs. Sinclair is just now gone from me.  Dorcas, she told me, had acquainted her, that I had
dismissed her for the night.  She came to ask me how I liked my apartment, and to wish me good
rest.  She expressed her concern, that they could not have my company at supper.  Mr. Lovelace,
she said, had informed them of my love of retirement.  She assured me, that I should not be
broken in upon.  She highly extolled him, and gave me a share in the praise as to person. 
But was sorry, she said, that she was likely to lose us so soon as Mr. Lovelace talked of.

I answered her with suitable civility; and she withdrew with great tokens of respect.  With
greater, I think, than should be from distance of years, as she was the wife of a gentleman;
and as the appearance of every thing about her, as well house as dress, carries the marks of
such good circumstances, as require not abasement.

If, my dear, you will write, against prohibition, be pleased to direct, To Miss Laetitia Beaumont;
to be left till called for, at Mr. Wilson's, in Pall Mall.

Mr. Lovelace proposed this direction to me, not knowing of your desire that your letters should
pass by a third hand.  As his motive for it was, that my brother might not trace out where
we are, I am glad, as well from this instance as from others, that he seems to think he has
done mischief enough already.

Do you know how my poor Hannah does?

Mr. Lovelace is so full of his contrivances and expedients, that I think it may not be amiss
to desire you to look carefully to the seals of my letters, as I shall to those of yours. 
If I find him base in this particular, I shall think him capable of any evil; and will fly
him as my worst enemy.

LETTER II

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE [WITH HER TWO LAST LETTERS, NO. LVIII. LIX. OF VOL. III.,
ENCLOSED.] THURSDAY NIGHT, APRIL 27.

I have your's; just brought me.  Mr. Hickman has helped me to a lucky expedient, which, with
the assistance of the post, will enable me to correspond with you every day.  An honest higler,
[Simon Collins his name,] by whom I shall send this, and the two enclosed, (now I have your
direction whither,) goes to town constantly on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays; and can bring
back to me from Mr. Wilson's what you shall have caused to be left for me.

I congratulate you on your arrival in town, so much amended in spirits. I must be brief.  I
hope you'll have no cause to repent returning my Norris.  It is forthcoming on demand.

I am sorry your Hannah can't be with you.  She is very ill still; but not dangerously.

I long for your account of the women you are with.  If they are not right people, you will
find them out in one breakfasting.

I know not what to write upon his reporting to them that you are actually married.  His reasons
for it are plausible.  But he delights in odd expedients and inventions.

Whether you like the people or not, do not, by your noble sincerity and plain dealing, make
yourself enemies.  You are in the real world now you know.

I am glad you had thoughts of taking him at his offer, if he had re-urged it.  I wonder he
did not.  But if he do not soon, and in such a way as you can accept of it, don't think of
staying with him.

Depend upon it, my dear, he will not leave you, either night or day, if he can help it, now
he has got footing.

I should have abhorred him for his report of your marriage, had he not made it with such circumstances
as leave it still in your power to keep him at distance.  If once he offer at the least familiarity--but
this is needless to say to you.  He can have, I think, no other design but what he professes;
because he must needs think, that his report of being married to you must increase your vigilance.

You may depend upon my looking narrowly into the sealings of your letters.  If, as you say,
he be base in that point, he will be so in every thing.  But to a person of your merit, of
your fortune, of your virtue, he cannot be base.  The man is no fool. When I go two days without
seeing the Plaza de Oriente, Santo Domingo el Real, the Incarnation and the Senate, I believe I
have not lived. I do not think I gain mass when not hear in the Santa
Catalina Donated in the Chapel Royal or good fortune.

It is true that this part of the Los Angeles Costanilla is rather
narrow, but I like it.

It seems we are seeing more companions to the neighbor across so close
that you can shake hands.

I want neighbors on all sides.

I like to feel at night to the tenant that goes, I like to feel the breath of people up and
down. Loneliness makes me fear, and when I hear about the families who have gone to live
in this neighborhood, that is doing Salamanca Sacramental beyond the Plaza de Toros, give me chills.
Jesus, how scary! ... Then this site is a car stopped. What animation! At all times people pass.
All, all, every bit of the night are you hearing about the passing, and even understand what they
say. Believe it, it accompanies. As our main room is, it seems that we are in the street. Then everything
so close at hand ... Under the carnage, the grocery side, a stone's
throw fish stall, in the square pharmacy, confectionery, chocolate
mill, house cows, silk shop, drugstore, finally, to say that everything
... We can not complain.

We are in a place so central, you just have to go to go to this or that
party. We live near the palace, near the Ministry of State, near
the office of Bringas, near the Chapel Royal, near Mews, near the
Armory, near the Plaza de Oriente ... near you, the Fish, my cousin
Augustine ...».

When appoint this person rang the doorbell, someone entered the house. "Is he - said Bringas -
but has been in step by step so you do not feel it. "- It is understood that visit - Rosalie
said, laughing - and neither will make three shots into the room. IV is so weird ... It is difficult
to determine the social ladder in the house occupied Bringas Amparo,
Amparo, Amparo, Amparo Miss because of these four ways was named.

He was in the point where relationships are confused friendship with
the easement, and could not say whether the subjugated a sweet friend,
or if a despotic loves the favor.

The
obligations of this young man in the house were so great and the
pay of affection so assessed and race, which of course can be assured
that came there as a poor relation and annoying.

This is the more distantly related to known, and should declare the blood between the families
of Emperor and Rosalia Sanchez, was one of those who do not take
the greyhound more corridor.'s mother Amparo Calderón as the mother
of Rosalie, but very remote branches, whose junction had been found
(if some will look empty) in a montero de Palacio happened to service
and infant Vallabriga D. Luis.

Little was treated with Sanchez Bringas Emperor, but once it had
received from the father of Rosalia invaluable service, and was constant
gratitude.

Shortly before his death called D. The unfortunate janitor Francisco School of Pharmacy and said:
"All I have spent my savings on my disease.

Do not let my poor children more than the thirty days of the month. If you promise me to do
for them everything I can, I die in peace. " Bringas, who had a good heart, he promised to protect them
as far from his modest pass, and who fulfilled his promise. Then they gave land to his father, instaláronse
the orphans in the house smaller and cheaper than found, and made that
vote of heroism that is called a living from their work.

The single women, single and was honored as a patent and is a perpetual fast, but those well-bred
girls had faith, with the first disappointments not discouraged. Too bad they could have had
without the apparent protection of Bringas, and more or less hidden from other friends and
relatives of Emperor Sanchez. The status of Rosalia Rosalia Rosalia de la Barca was not, despite
contact with Palace and viso families, the most calculated to foster
in her high-flying aristocratic pretensions, but he had a corny orgullete
he felt often with hollow-nosed, declamatory evocations of merit and
quality of their ancestors.

He liked also to nominate titles , describe Palace and expensive uniforms good relations. In
a society like that, or like this, for variation in sixteen years
has not been very great in this society, I say, not invigorated by
work, and which have more value than elsewhere for the relationships,
recommendations, compadrazgos and friends, individual initiative is
replaced by faith in relationships.

The well-connected relative 'expect everything to flatter or cacique who they serve, and rarely
expect of themselves the good they want. In this well-connected living, Mrs. Bringas not yield
to any born or unborn, and from such a solid base going back to the loftiness of his orgullete
Spanish, which is based vice inveterate laziness of spirit, the idleness of many generations and
the lack of intellectual and moral education.

And if that company prior to 68 differed somewhat from ours and the difference was that it was more
fussy and more lymph, which was even more vain and lazy, and that was more stunted by political changes
and the empleomania; was a company that moved all of half a dozen destinations underpaid and
hinted that certain disdain towards stupid that was not on the high payroll of the State or
the Palace, were even of the lowest. So Rosalie could not forgive
the daughters of Emperor bush branches that were as humble as the
caretaker of an educational institution a goalkeeper!

Sánchez Emperor had also been placed in the D. Pharmacy Martín de los Heros, and affiliation Rosalia
progressive enough to open a mental gap between Free State and the
Palace. When Amparo and Refugio sat at the table Rosalia what happened three
or four times a month never missed an opportunity this to show any significant
way his superiority.

But could not do it with delicacy and tact of people marked the stamp of nobility that is together
in the blood and in education could not make it so that the lower
not ache the wound in his inferiority affected shaped doeth evil hiding
the grossness of his intention.

At the same time they used to have Rosalia unexpected features of cruelty that flowed from
his heart as the weeds of a field without crop. This detail depicts
Mrs. Bringas and gives complete idea of his limited intelligence and
their perverse moral education, history and pure habit, then do not override
or even what the veneer of civility hides that glisten in the light
of superficial relationships, the vast majority of people in coat
and scarf.

Besides the struggle for existence is harsher here than elsewhere, contains characteristics of
ferocity in the distribution of political favors, and in the common sphere of life, is the envy
expression in various forms and manifestations pilgrims. It gives the rare event that less than envious
of, and it happens that those who eat two cheeks with anger and desire to
defend a sad crumb. All this, which is general, can serve as a basis
for an accurate knowledge of the humiliations the lady imposed on
its protected, and the dryness that made them feel the weight of his
hand by giving alms.

Bringas was not. When Amparo arrived dead tired at the house and the surly tone Pipaón to say,
"Amparo, go now to the Rue de la Concepción Jerónima aprons and bring the child to set aside ', where travel
distances made it huge and then sent to the kitchen, and for any reason can not scolded her harshly,
good old D. Francisco took the face to defend the orphan, asking his wife
tolerance and kindness. "Let her work - watching Rosalia -. What
then?, If the end has to live in their works.

You think you gonna have any inheritance? Get him used to the pampering,
then you'll see what remains when we fail to keep him for any reason.
They are very spoiled these girls ... It is, Bringas, which all live
according to their circumstances.

"Refugio, the smaller of the two, soon tired of his vain protection relative. It was his character
something brave and loved the independence. The tone, the air of his
patroness, and the work imposed on them, much irritated, who quit
the shelter of the house and took his leave a day not to return.

Amparo, who was humble and weak character, tied to continued burdensome yoke
of that protection. Also had enough good sense to understand that
freedom was sadder and more dangerous than slavery in that particular
case.

When retiring at night to his home after running errands painful, some very unbecoming a lady,
after sewing until dizzy, and take a thousand turns busy in all that
the Lord commands, this will usually give some chopped nuts or raisins
that were about to ferment, cold meat, sausages and gingerbread pieces,
two or three pears and a cooking dessert was ruined.

In use clothing, rare were the donations of Rosalia, because as she hurried to leave for no good damn
thing. But there were some remaining shred, a piece of faille frayed or dirty cloth, a dress
cuts, scraps of ribbon, old buttons. Bringas, for its part, will
not spare their protected ability grants generous, and was always ready
to compose an umbrella, a new nail to put new hinges to the fan or
the drawer of the seam. Outside of this (it must be said in print so
you know the public), Amparo received weekly of his patron an amount
in cash, which varied according to fluctuations of man's treasure
thrifty and economical high degree.

Bringas had in the right drawer of his desk (which was the calling of a minister), several apartadijos
coins. From there out everything you need for the various expenses of the house with a punctuality
and method that we would be imitated by the Treasury. There was no superfluous as they were not
covered all the attention. In this Bringas was inexorable, and rigor
as healthy because in that house had not a penny either the Sursum
Corda (Thiers's own phrase).

      The remains of what is necessary to spend
        a week heading to the basket and the
      superfluous, and even had another hole where the
        surplus flowed from the superfluous, which was already, as shown, a
quintessence of cash, and the last word domestic order.

This third category came the convoluted rentist emoluments of Amparo, which generally had
adequate training in pesetas and wear and more blurred in the quarter. Everything pointed D. Francisco
in his book, which was made by himself with office paper, and very well sewn with red thread. The
holy man had the weakness meritorious cheating on his wife when asked
about those wastes week, and if she had fourteen, said soothingly keeping
the book: "Calm down, woman. I have not given more than nine real
.. .

Neither do I know how to fix the poor to pay the rent this month because
his sister gandulona not help anything ... But we can not do more
for her.

And miracle seems to go out on with all the attention. This month's footwear for children is
a bit unbalanced.

Agustín I hope you remember what you promised for the payment of school and Isabelita piano.
If you do, so good.

If not, give up his coat again this winter. And the same goes for your hat, my dear ... You see,
the fool of my cousin could give you a high price, but he takes care of their needs, and should
not be letting him know we rely on your generosity. Tact with him,
that these characters tend to be sullen and mistrust extraordinary
insight.

"V As consideration did not have chores, or some well-paid overtime, which happened very few
times, Amparo not let go any day of principal Costanilla of Los Angeles. Here we see her point,
always the same, humor and genius unchanged, untouched in the grave
distaste, silent, suffering, living image of the patient, if, as seems,
is a beautiful image; working, ready for anything, economical of words
to the greed, smiling slightly when Rosalie was happy, immersed in
profound sadness if the lady expressed sorrow or anger.

Let us hear the mantra every day: "Amparo, have you brought the green silk? Right? Then stop the seam and
put the mantle: now going for her. Head over to the drugstore and brings
a bloody sheets. Oh, I forgot, bring me two lids to fourth ... Are
you already back? Well, give me back the quarter. Now take a walk through
the kitchen and see what makes Prudence. If too poring, help wash
the clothes. Then come to conclude this neck.

"And full of spirit of protection, sometimes dating back to the heights
of patriarchy, like a balloon full of gas rises to the empyrean,
and said in a tone very cordial," Amparo, shaded our you can find,
if you behave yourself, a regular position, because we have good relations
y. ..

Ah ... Do not you know what happens to me now? A most happy idea. Simply because you had to
get you a nun.

With your character and your desire to have a few boyfriends, you do not have to marry, and above
all, do not have to marry well. With that think about it, look that suits you. I'll do it for
get the dowry. I think if you talk to His Majesty, she will give. It's so charitable, that if he were
in his hand, all the money of the nation (which is not much, believe
me), I spent on alms. The next day it is known that said, 'Hey, you
... I have been happy ... another idea Today I vein.

If you choose the Monji, I think that we need not bother the Lady, who tired pretensions and memorials
in need receive each day, and the poor woman grieve because they can not serve everyone. Do you know
who you can give dowry? Do not you think? Do not you fall? ... Augustine's
cousin, which is always discoursing on how to use the big bucks has
brought from America.

I know what I mean by skill and see how you take it. It is the flower of good men, but as has those rarities
knowing him to have to try. Here, as is so generous, you can not ask for anything right. It's
like all sullen suspicious, and maybe you come out with a candideces that looks like a creature.
We must try to know it, you must be, like me, good tempering of pipes
to take advantage of it ... You see, yesterday I gave a magnificent
hat ... All because I was arranging the old and afanadísima heard
me deny my limited resources ... As you aid, will be feat ... I think
it is he who calls ... Today was to bring me tickets for the Prince
... And that calamity Prudence does not hear ... Caution!

... You'll have to leave you ... No, it's going to open that mule ... Is he ... Did not I? "Good morning,
Augustine goes, turns around. Da kicked the laundry basket. Now a slap on the door. About empty
box. Aside that cloak that is on the chair. Do not take off your hat, not hot here. This happened
in the little sewing, which was also Rosalia wardrobe and full of cabinets and racks, with
defending calico curtains of dust and piles of skirts dresses. Trunks
huge occupied the rest, leaving so little room for people, that they,
upon entering and leaving, had to make up an itinerary and often not
found.

"And what is
your life? - I ask Rosalia -.

Have you already given your ride? ... Look, get well tie, which, while it leads, tie the neck
is coming soon ... Oh, how clumsy you are! If you dejases rule, soon
to be another.

Yourself you were not to know '. - I'm old for reforms - Laughing Cavalier said -. Let me as
I am. Okay so the tie? Go a fuss. Filled with wonder of what I say: I lived fifteen years without
seeing a mirror, or what is the same, without seeing the face and not knowing how I am. "- Jesus,
what a man ... And one day you finally looked and said, like Caspe:
"Another God, I know that face ...».

Hear, Amparo? The two laughed. Agustín Caballero was no longer young, but certainly the fatigue
and the cares of life had a more painful part that year in the physical decay expressing his
face. In his black beard shining silver threads unevenly distributed, because beneath the temples dominated
almost entirely gray, while the mustache and everything that fell
under the lower lip was black.

Her hair, cut tip of scissors, also offered capricious distribution
of those infallible signs of fatigue life: in the temporary frost,
otherwise lightly peppered intense blackness hatched herring.

The color of his face was terrible, the color of America, dying of fever and fatigue in the
hot humidity of the Mexican Gulf, trademark or logo settler ministry, life and health of so many noble
workers, is carving the powerful civilizations Future of Hispanic-American
world.

Always a Knight saw a strong physical constitution, half won in bitter struggle with nature and
men, strong evidence billion spent on health, a beautiful toast
to the sun. That head and well cared for by that body hairdressers
and tailors, have been more than moderately beautiful. But the social
withdrawal and a labor of Hercules took forever to one and other all
finesse and elegance, and even the possibility of acquiring.

Therefore Sir, with very good sense, had realized the worst affect
what he had to appear as it was to the findings of the effeminate
vulgar society in which they lived.

Truly this man, who had rendered services American civilization positive if not brilliant,
was crude and awkward, and seemed very out of place in a bureaucratic capital where people who
have made brilliant careers by making known the tie loop . It is not the first time that transplanted
yankee rude here, had to flee bored and not wanting to return.

Knight spent more time than others, and challenged what we might
call his unpopularity.

He had to smile with malice trivial to many people, it was awkward to say hello or unable to
hold a conversation light and pleasant grounds. Amidst joy expansions
kept some serious and taciturn.

If you do not know the basic formulas of social life,
was lay in many other second order, which are products of the refinement
of manners and sumptuary continuous innovation.

His indifference was not so much to let him watch with indifference the ridiculousness that fell
on him at times, and to prevent it, attentive to his dignity, much
esteemed, fleeing the treatment of people busy.

It was very retired life, not only maintained constant relations with their cousins the Bringas
and two or three friends of the trade and banking in Madrid, who will know later. In October of
that year, tired of the tedious life Augustine in Madrid did, went
to Bordeaux, where he had some business.

But suddenly returned without explaining the reason for his early
return.

Only Bringas said: "He bored me more. But I think again if God gives me life and I get a project
I have. "
  I will instantly
go out to view some of the handsome new squares or fine streets round them, and make a report
to you of any suitable house I find to be let. I will take such a one as you shall choose,
and set up an equipage befitting our condition.  You shall direct the whole. And on some early
day, either before, or after we fix, [it must be at your own choice], be pleased to make me
the happiest of men.  And then will every thing be in a desirable train.  You shall receive
in your own house (if it can be so soon furnished as I wish) the compliments of all my relations.
Charlotte shall visit you in the interim: and if it take up time, you shall choose whom you
will honour with your company, first, second, or third, in the summer months; and on your return
you shall find all that was wanting in your new habitation supplied, and pleasures in a constant
round shall attend us.  O my angel, take me to you, instead of banishing me from you, and make
me your's for ever.

You see, my dear, that here was no day pressed for.  I was not uneasy about that, and the sooner
recovered myself, as there was not.  But, however, I gave him no reason to upbraid me for refusing
his offer of going in search of a house.

He is accordingly gone out for this purpose.  But I find that he intends to take up his lodging
here tonight; and if to-night, no doubt on other nights, while he is in town.  As the doors
and windows of my apartment have good fastenings; as he has not, in all this time, given me
cause for apprehension; as he has the pretence of my brother's schemes to plead; as the people
below are very courteous and obliging, Miss Horton especially, who seems to have taken a great
liking to me, and to be of a gentler temper and manners than Miss Martin; and as we are now
in a tolerable way; I imagine it would look particular to them all, and bring me into a debate
with a man, who (let him be set upon what he will) has always a great deal to say for himself,
if I were to insist upon his promise: on all these accounts, I think, I will take no notice
of his lodging here, if he don't.--Let me know, my dear, your thoughts of every thing.

You may believe I gave him back his bank note the moment I saw him.

FRIDAY EVENING.

Mr. Lovelace has seen two or three houses, but none to his mind.  But he has heard of one which
looks promising, he says, and which he is to inquire about in the morning.

SATURDAY MORNING.

He has made his inquiries, and actually seen the house he was told of last night.  The owner
of it is a young widow lady, who is inconsolable for the death of her husband; Fretchville
her name.  It is furnished quite in taste, every thing being new within these six months. 
He believes, if I like not the furniture, the use of it may be agreed for, with the house,
for a time certain: but, if I like it, he will endeavour to take the one, and purchase the
other, directly.

The lady sees nobody; nor are the best apartments above-stairs to be viewed, till she is either
absent, or gone into the country; which she talks of doing in a fortnight, or three weeks,
at farthest, and to live there retired.

What Mr. Lovelace saw of the house (which were the saloon and two parlours) was perfectly elegant;
and he was assured all is of a piece. The offices are also very convenient; coach-house and
stables at hand.

He shall be very impatient, he says, till I see the whole; nor will he, if he finds he can
have it, look farther till I have seen it, except any thing else offer to my liking.  The price
he values not.

He now does nothing but talk of the ceremony, but not indeed of the day. I don't want him to
urge that--but I wonder he does not.

He has just now received a letter from Lady Betty Lawrance, by a particular hand; the contents
principally relating to an affair she has in chancery.  But in the postscript she is pleased
to say very respectful things of me.

They are all impatient, she says, for the happy day being over; which they flatter themselves
will ensure his reformation.

He hoped, he told me, that I would soon enable him to answer their wishes and his own.

But, my dear, although the opportunity was so inviting, he urged not for the day.  Which is
the more extraordinary, as he was so pressing for marriage before we came to town.

He was very earnest with me to give him, and four of his friends, my company on Monday evening,
at a little collation.  Miss Martin and Miss Horton cannot, he says, be there, being engaged
in a party of their own, with two daughters of Colonel Solcombe, and two nieces of Sir Anthony
Holmes, upon an annual occasion.  But Mrs. Sinclair will be present, and she gave him hope
of the company of a young lady of very great fortune and merit (Miss Partington), an heiress
to whom Colonel Sinclair, it seems, in his lifetime was guardian, and who therefore calls Mrs.
Sinclair Mamma.

I desired to be excused.  He had laid me, I said, under a most disagreeable necessity of appearing
as a married person, and I would see as few people as possible who were to think me so.

He would not urge it, he said, if I were much averse: but they were his select friends; men
of birth and fortune, who longed to see me.  It was true, he added, that they, as well as his
friend Doleman, believed we were married: but they thought him under the restrictions that
he had mentioned to the people below.  I might be assured, he told me, that his politeness
before them should be carried into the highest degree of reverence.

When he is set upon any thing, there is no knowing, as I have said heretofore, what one can
do.*  But I will not, if I can help it, be made a show of; especially to men of whose character
and principles I have no good opinion.  I am, my dearest friend,

Your ever affectionate CL. HARLOWE.

* See Letter I. of this volume.  See also Vol. II. Letter XX.

***

[Mr. Lovelace, in his next letter, gives an account of his quick return:
   of his reasons to the Lady for it: of her displeasure upon it: and of
   her urging his absence from the safety she was in from the situation
   of the house, except she were to be traced out by his visits.]

I was confoundedly puzzled, says he, on this occasion, and on her insisting upon the execution
of a too-ready offer which I made her go down to Berks, to bring up my cousin Charlotte to
visit and attend her. I made miserable excuses; and fearing that they would be mortally resented,
as her passion began to rise upon my saying Charlotte was delicate, which she took strangely
wrong, I was obliged to screen myself behind the most solemn and explicit declarations.

[He then repeats those declarations, to the same effect with the account
   she gives of them.]

I began, says he, with an intention to keep my life of honour in view, in the declaration I
made her;  but, as it has been said of a certain orator in the House of Commons, who more than
once, in a long speech, convinced himself as he went along, and concluded against the side
he set out intending to favour, so I in earnest pressed without reserve for matrimony in the
progress of my harangue, which state I little thought of urging upon her with so much strength
and explicitness.

[He then values himself upon the delay that his proposal of taking and
   furnishing a house must occasion.

He wavers in his resolutions whether to act honourable or not by a merit
   so exalted.

He values himself upon his own delicacy, in expressing his indignation
   against her friends, for supposing what he pretends his heart rises
   against them for presuming to suppose.]

But have I not reason, says he, to be angry with her for not praising me for this my delicacy,
when she is so ready to call me to account for the least failure in punctilio?--However, I
believe I can excuse her too, upon this generous consideration, [for generous I am sure it
is, because it is against myself,] that her mind being the essence of delicacy, the least want
of it shocks her; while the meeting with what is so very extraordinary to me, is too familiar
to her to obtain her notice, as an extraordinary.

[He glories in the story of the house, and of the young widow possessor
   of it, Mrs. Fretchville he calls her; and leaves it doubtful to Mr.
   Belford, whether it be a real or a fictitious story.

He mentions his different proposals in relation to the ceremony, which he
   so earnestly pressed for; and owns his artful intention in avoiding to
   name the day.]

And now, says he, I hope soon to have an opportunity to begin my operations; since all is halcyon
and security.

It is impossible to describe the dear creature's sweet and silent confusion, when I touched
upon the matrimonial topics.

She may doubt.  She may fear.  The wise in all important cases will doubt, and will fear, till
they are sure.  But her apparent willingness to think well of a spirit so inventive, and so
machinating, is a happy prognostic for me.  O these reasoning ladies!--How I love these reasoning
ladies!--'Tis all over with them, when once love has crept into their hearts: for then will
they employ all their reasoning powers to excuse rather than to blame the conduct of the doubted
lover, let appearances against him be ever so strong.

Mowbray, Belton, and Tourville, long to see my angel, and will be there. She has refused me;
but must be present notwithstanding.  So generous a spirit as mine is cannot enjoy its happiness
without communication.  If I raise not your envy and admiration both at once, but half-joy
will be the joy of having such a charming fly entangled in my web.  She therefore must comply.
And thou must come.  And then will show thee the pride and glory of the Harlowe family, my
implacable enemies; and thou shalt join with me in my triumph over them all.

I know not what may still be the perverse beauty's fate: I want thee, therefore, to see and
admire her, while she is serene and full of hope: before her apprehensions are realized, if
realized they are to be; and if evil apprehensions of me she really has; before her beamy eyes
have lost their lustre; while yet her charming face is surrounded with all its virgin glories;
and before the plough of disappointment has thrown up furrows of distress upon every lovely
feature.

If I can procure you this honour you will be ready to laugh out, as I have often much ado to
forbear, at the puritanical behaviour of the mother before this lady.  Not an oath, not a curse,
nor the least free word, escapes her lips.  She minces in her gait.  She prims up her horse-mouth.
Her voice, which, when she pleases, is the voice of thunder, is sunk into an humble whine.
Her stiff hams, that have not been bent to a civility for ten years past, are now limbered
into courtesies three deep at ever word.  Her fat arms are crossed before her; and she can
hardly be prevailed upon to sit in the presence of my goddess.

I am drawing up instructions for ye all to observe on Monday night.

SATURDAY NIGHT.

Most confoundedly alarmed!--Lord, Sir, what do you think? cried Dorcas --My lady is resolved
to go to church to-morrow!  I was at quadrille with the women below.--To church! said I, and
down I laid my cards.  To church! repeated they, each looking upon the other.  We had done
playing for that night.

Who could have dreamt of such a whim as this?--Without notice, without questions!  Her clothes
not come!  No leave asked!--Impossible she should think of being my wife!--Besides, she don't
consider, if she go to church, I must go too!--Yet not to ask for my company!  Her brother
and Singleton ready to snap her up, as far as she knows!--Known by her clothes--her person,
her features, so distinguished!--Not such another woman in England!--To church of all places!
Is the devil in the girl? said I, as soon as I could speak.

Well, but to leave this subject till to-morrow morning, I will now give you the instructions
I have drawn up for your's and your companions' behaviour on Monday night.

***

Instructions to be observed by John Belford, Richard Mowbray, Thomas
   Belton, and James Tourville, Esquires of the Body to General Robert
   Lovelace, on their admission to the presence of his Goddess.

Ye must be sure to let it sink deep into your heavy heads, that there is no such lady in the
world as Miss Clarissa Harlowe; and that she is neither more nor less than Mrs. Lovelace, though
at present, to my shame be it spoken, a virgin.

Be mindful also, that your old mother's name, after that of her mother when a maid, is Sinclair:
that her husband was a lieutenant-colonel, and all that you, Belford, know from honest Doleman's
letter of her,* that let your brethren know.

* See Letter XXXVIII. Vol. III.

Mowbray and Tourville, the two greatest blunderers of the four, I allow to be acquainted with
the widow and nieces, from the knowledge they had of the colonel.  They will not forbear familiarities
of speech to the mother, as of longer acquaintance than a day.  So I have suited their parts
to their capacities.

They may praise the widow and the colonel for people of great honour--but not too grossly;
nor to labour the point so as to render themselves suspected.

The mother will lead ye into her own and the colonel's praises! and Tourville and Mowbray may
be both her vouchers--I, and you, and Belton, must be only hearsay confirmers.

As poverty is generally suspectible, the widow must be got handsomely aforehand; and no doubt
but she is.  The elegance of her house and furniture, and her readiness to discharge all demands
upon her, which she does with ostentation enough, and which makes her neighbours, I suppose,
like her the better, demonstrate this.  She will propose to do handsome things by her two nieces.
Sally is near marriage--with an eminent woollen-draper in the Strand, if ye have a mind to
it; for there are five or six of them there.

The nieces may be inquired after, since they will be absent, as persons respected by Mowbray
and Tourville, for their late worthy uncle's sake.

Watch ye diligently every turn of my countenance, every motion of my eye; for in my eye, and
in my countenance will ye find a sovereign regulator. I need not bid you respect me mightily:
your allegiance obliges you to that: And who that sees me, respects me not?

Priscilla Partington (for her looks so innocent, and discretion so deep, yet seeming so softly)
may be greatly relied upon.  She will accompany the mother, gorgeously dressed, with all her
Jew's extravagance flaming out upon her; and first induce, then countenance, the lady.  She
has her cue, and I hope will make her acquaintance coveted by my charmer.

Miss Partington's history is this: the daughter of Colonel Sinclair's brother-in-law: that
brother-in-law may have been a Turkey-merchant, or any merchant, who died confoundedly rich:
the colonel one of her guardians [collateral credit in that to the old one:] whence she always
calls Mrs. Sinclair Mamma, though not succeeding to the trust.

She is just come to pass a day or two, and then to return to her surviving guardian's at Barnet.

Miss Partington has suitors a little hundred (her grandmother, an alderman's dowager, having
left her a great additional fortune,) and is not trusted out of her guardian's house without
an old governante, noted for discretion, except to her Mamma Sinclair, with whom now-and-then
she is permitted to be for a week together.

Pris. will Mamma-up Mrs. Sinclair, and will undertake to court her guardian to let her pass
a delightful week with her--Sir Edward Holden he may as well be, if your shallow pates will
not be clogged with too many circumstantials.  Lady Holden, perhaps, will come with her; for
she always delighted in her Mamma Sinclair's company, and talks of her, and her good management,
twenty times a day.

Be it principally thy part, Jack, who art a parading fellow, and aimest at wisdom, to keep
thy brother-varlets from blundering; for, as thou must have observed from what I have written,
we have the most watchful and most penetrating lady in the world to deal with; a lady worth
deceiving! but whose eyes will piece to the bottom of your shallow souls the moment she hears
you open.  Do you therefore place thyself between Mowbray and Tourville: their toes to be played
upon and commanded by thine, if they go wrong: thy elbows to be the ministers of approbation.

As to your general behaviour; no hypocrisy!--I hate it: so does my charmer.  If I had studied
for it, I believe I could have been an hypocrite: but my general character is so well known,
that I should have been suspected at once, had I aimed at making myself too white.  But what
necessity can there be for hypocrisy, unless the generality of the sex were to refuse us for
our immoralities?  The best of them love to have the credit for reforming us.  Let the sweet
souls try for it: if they fail, their intent was good.  That will be a consolation to them.
And as to us, our work will be the easier; our sins the fewer: since they will draw themselves
in with a very little of our help; and we shall save a parcel of cursed falsehoods, and appear
to be what we are both to angels and men.--Mean time their very grandmothers will acquit us,
and reproach them with their self-do, self-have, and as having erred against knowledge, and
ventured against manifest appearances.  What folly, therefore, for men of our character to
be hypocrites!

Be sure to instruct the rest, and do thou thyself remember, not to talk obscenely.  You know
I never permitted any of you to talk obscenely. Time enough for that, when ye grow old, and
can ONLY talk.  Besides, ye must consider Prisc.'s affected character, my goddess's real one.
Far from obscenity, therefore, do not so much as touch upon the double entendre.  What! as
I have often said, cannot you touch a lady's heart without wounding her ear?

It is necessary that ye should appear worse men than myself. You cannot help appearing so,
you'll say.  Well, then, there will be the less restraint upon you--the less restraint, the
less affectation.--And if Belton begins his favourite subject in behalf of keeping, it may
make me take upon myself to oppose him: but fear not; I shall not give the argument all my force.

She must have some curiosity, I think, to see what sort of men my companions are: she will
not expect any of you to be saints.  Are you not men born to considerable fortunes, although
ye are not all of you men of parts?  Who is it in this mortal life that wealth does not mislead?
And as it gives people the power of being mischievous, does it not require great virtue to
forbear the use of that power?  Is not the devil said to be the god of this world?  Are we
not children of this world?  Well, then! let me tell thee my opinion--It is this, that were
it not for the poor and the middling, the world would probably, long ago, have been destroyed
by fire from Heaven.  Ungrateful wretches the rest, thou wilt be apt to say, to make such sorry
returns, as they generally do make, to the poor and the middling!

This dear lady is prodigiously learned in theories.  But as to practices, as to experimentals,
must be, as you know from her tender years, a mere novice.  Till she knew me, I dare say, she
did not believe, whatever she had read, that there were such fellows in the world, as she will
see in you four.  I shall have much pleasure in observing how she'll stare at her company,
when she finds me the politest man of the five.

And so much for instructions general and particular for your behaviour on Monday night.

And let me add, that you must attend to every minute circumstance, whether you think there
be reason for it, or not.  Deep, like golden ore, frequently lies my meaning, and richly worth
digging for.  The hint of least moment, as you may imagine it, is often pregnant with events
of the greatest.  Be implicit.  Am I not your general?  Did I ever lead you on that I brought
you not off with safety and success?--Sometimes to your own stupid astonishment.

And now, methinks, thou art curious to know, what can be my view in risquing the displeasure
of my fair-one, and alarming her fears, after four or five halcyon days have gone over our
heads?  I'll satisfy thee.

The visiters of the two nieces will crowd the house.--Beds will be scarce:--Miss Partington,
a sweet, modest, genteel girl, will be prodigiously taken with my charmer;--will want to begin
a friendship with her--a share in her bed, for one night only, will be requested.  Who knows,
but on that very Monday night I may be so unhappy as to give mortal offence to my beloved?
The shyest birds may be caught napping. Should she attempt to fly me upon it, cannot I detain
her?  Should she actually fly, cannot I bring her back, by authority civil or uncivil, if I
have evidence upon evidence that she acknowledged, though but tacitly, her marriage?  And should
I, or should I not succeed, and she forgive me, or if she but descend to expostulate, or if
she bear me in her sight, then will she be all my own.  All delicacy is my charmer.  I long
to see how such a delicacy, on any of these occasions, will behave, and in my situation it
behoves me to provide against every accident.

I must take care, knowing what an eel I have to do with, that the little riggling rogue does
not slip through my fingers.  How silly should I look, staring after her, when she had shot
from me into the muddy river, her family, from which with so much difficulty I have taken her!

Well then, here are--let me see--How many persons are there who, after Monday night, will be
able to swear that she has gone by my name, answered to my name, had no other view in leaving
her friends but to go by my name? her own relations neither able nor willing to deny it.--
First, here are my servants, her servant, Dorcas, Mrs. Sinclair, Mrs. Sinclair's two nieces,
and Miss Partington.

But for fear these evidences should be suspected, here comes the jet of the business--'No less
than four worthy gentlemen of fortune and family, who were all in company such a night particularly,
at a collation to which they were invited by Robert Lovelace, of Sandoun-hall, in the county
of Lancaster, esquire, in company with Magdalen Sinclair, widow, and Priscilla Partington,
spinster, and the lady complainant, when the said Robert Lovelace addressed himself to the
said lady, on a multitude of occasions, as his wife; as they and others did, as Mrs. Lovelace;
every one complimenting and congratulating her upon her nuptials; and that she received such
their compliments and congratulations with no other visible displeasure or repugnance, than
such as a young bride, full of blushes and pretty confusion, might be supposed to express upon
such contemplative revolvings as those compliments would naturally inspire.' Nor do thou rave
at me, Jack, nor rebel.  Dost think I brought the dear creature hither for nothing?

And here's a faint sketch of my plot.--Stand by, varlets--tanta-ra-ra-ra! --Veil your bonnets,
and confess your master!

LETTER V

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. SUNDAY.

Have been at church, Jack--behaved admirably well too!  My charmer is pleased with me now:
for I was exceedingly attentive to the discourse, and very ready in the auditor's part of the
service.--Eyes did not much wander.  How could they, when the loveliest object, infinitely
the loveliest in the whole church, was in my view!

Dear creature! how fervent, how amiable, in her devotions!  I have got her to own that she
prayed for me.  I hope a prayer from so excellent a mind will not be made in vain.

There is, after all, something beautifully solemn in devotion.  The Sabbath is a charming institution
to keep the heart right, when it is right.  One day in seven, how reasonable!--I think I'll
go to church once a day often.  I fancy it will go a great way towards making me a reformed
man.  To see multitudes of well-appearing people all joining in one reverend act.  An exercise
how worthy of a rational being!  Yet it adds a sting or two to my former stings, when I think
of my projects with regard to this charming creature.  In my conscience, I believe, if I were
to go constantly to church, I could not pursue them.

I had a scheme come into my head while there; but I will renounce it, because it obtruded itself
upon me in so good a place.  Excellent creature!  How many ruins has she prevented by attaching
me to herself --by engrossing my whole attention.

But let me tell thee what passed between us in my first visit of this morning; and then I will
acquaint thee more largely with my good behaviour at church.

I could not be admitted till after eight.  I found her ready prepared to go out.  I pretended
to be ignorant of her intention, having charged Dorcas not to own that she had told me of it.

Going abroad, Madam?--with an air of indifference.

Yes, Sir: I intend to go to church.

I hope, Madam, I shall have the honour to attend you.

No: she designed to take a chair, and go to the next church.

This startled me:--A chair to carry her to the next church from Mrs. Sinclair's, her right
name not Sinclair, and to bring her back hither in the face of people who might not think well
of the house!--There was no permitting that.  Yet I was to appear indifferent.  But said, I
should take it for a favour, if she would permit me to attend her in a coach, as there was
time for it, to St. Paul's.

She made objections to the gaiety of my dress; and told me, that if she went to St. Paul's,
she could go in a coach without me.

I objected Singleton and her brother, and offered to dress in the plainest suit I had.

I beg the favour of attending you, dear Madam, said I.  I have not been at church a great while;
we shall sit in different stalls, and the next time I go, I hope it will be to give myself
a title to the greatest blessing I can receive.

She made some further objections: but at last permitted me the honour of attending her.

I got myself placed in her eye, that the time might not seem tedious to me, for we were there
early.  And I gained her good opinion, as I mentioned above, by my behaviour.

The subject of the discourse was particular enough: It was about a prophet's story or parable
of an ewe-lamb taken by a rich man from a poor one, who dearly loved it, and whose only comfort
it was: designed to strike remorse into David, on his adultery with Uriah's wife Bathsheba,
and his murder of the husband.  These women, Jack, have been the occasion of all manner of
mischief from the beginning!  Now, when David, full of indignation, swore [King David would
swear, Jack: But how shouldst thou know who King David was?--The story is in the Bible,] that
the rich man should surely die; Nathan, which was the prophet's name, and a good ingenious
fellow, cried out, (which were the words of the text,) Thou art the man!  By my soul I thought
the parson looked directly at me; and at that moment I cast my eye full on my ewe-lamb.--But
I must tell thee too, that, that I thought a good deal of my Rosebud.--A better man than King
David, in that point, however, thought I!

When we came home we talked upon the subject; and I showed my charmer my attention to the discourse,
by letting her know where the Doctor made the most of his subject, and where it might have
been touched to greater advantage: for it is really a very affecting story, and has as pretty
a contrivance in it as ever I read.  And this I did in such a grave way, that she seemed more
and more pleased with me; and I have no doubt, that I shall get her to favour me to-morrow
night with her company at my collation.

SUNDAY EVENING.

We all dined together in Mrs. Sinclair's parlour:--All excessively right! The two nieces have
topped their parts--Mrs. Sinclair her's.  Never was so easy as now!--'She really thought a
little oddly of these people at first, she said!  Mrs. Sinclair seemed very forbidding!  Her
nieces were persons with whom she could not wish to be acquainted.  But really we should not
be too hasty in our censures.  Some people improve upon us. The widow seems tolerable.'  She
went no farther than tolerable.--'Miss Martin and Miss Horton are young people of good sense,
and have read a great deal.  What Miss Martin particularly said of marriage, and of her humble
servant, was very solid.  She believes with such notions she cannot make a bad wife.'  I have
said Sally's humble servant is a woolen- draper of great reputation; and she is soon to be married.

I have been letting her into thy character, and into the characters of my other three esquires,
in hopes to excite her curiosity to see you to-morrow night.  I have told her some of the worst,
as well as best parts of your characters, in order to exalt myself, and to obviate any sudden
surprizes, as well as to teach her what sort of men she may expect to see, if she will oblige
me with her company.

By her after-observation upon each of you, I shall judge what I may or may not do to obtain
or keep her good opinion; what she will like, or what not; and so pursue the one or avoid the
other, as I see proper.  So, while she is penetrating into your shallow heads, I shall enter
her heart, and know what to bid my own to hope for.

The house is to be taken in three weeks.--All will be over in three weeks, or bad will be my
luck!--Who knows but in three days?--Have I not carried that great point of making her pass
for my wife to the people below?  And that other great one, of fixing myself here night and
day? --What woman ever escaped me, who lodged under one roof with me?--The house too, THE house;
the people--people after my own heart; her servants, Will. and Dorcas, both my servants.--Three
days, did I say! Pho! Pho! Pho!--three hours!

***

I have carried my third point: but so extremely to the dislike of my charmer, that I have been
threatened, for suffering Miss Partington to be introduced to her without her leave.  Which
laid her under a necessity to deny or comply with the urgent request of so fine a young lady;
who had engaged to honour me at my collation, on condition that my beloved would be present at it.

To be obliged to appear before my friends as what she was not!  She was for insisting, that
I should acquaint the women here with the truth of the matter; and not go on propagating stories
for her to countenance, making her a sharer in my guilt.

But what points will not perseverance carry? especially when it is covered over with the face
of yielding now, and, Parthian-like, returning to the charge anon.  Do not the sex carry all
their points with their men by the same methods?  Have I conversed with them so freely as I
have done, and learnt nothing of them?  Didst thou ever know that a woman's denial of any favour,
whether the least or the greatest, that my heart was set upon, stood her in any stead?  The
more perverse she, the more steady I--that is my rule.

But the point thus so much against her will carried, I doubt thou will see in her more of a
sullen than of an obliging charmer: for, when Miss Partington was withdrawn, 'What was Miss
Partington to her?  In her situation she wanted no new acquaintances.  And what were my four
friends to her in her present circumstances?  She would assure me, if ever again' --And there
she stopped, with a twirl of her hand.

When we meet, I will, in her presence, tipping thee a wink, show thee the motion, for it was
a very pretty one.  Quite new.  Yet have I seen an hundred pretty passionate twirls too, in
my time, from other fair-ones. How universally engaging is it to put a woman of sense, to whom
a man is not married, in a passion, let the reception given to every ranting scene in our plays
testify.  Take care, my charmer, now thou art come to delight me with thy angry twirls, that
thou temptest me not to provoke a variety of them from one, whose every motion, whose every
air, carries in it so much sense and soul.

But, angry or pleased, this charming creature must be all loveliness. Her features are all
harmony, and made for one another.  No other feature could be substituted in the place of any
one of her's but most abate of her perfection: And think you that I do not long to have your
opinion of my fair prize?

If you love to see features that glow, though the heart is frozen, and never yet was thawed;
if you love fines sense, and adages flowing through teeth of ivory and lips of coral; an eye
that penetrates all things; a voice that is harmony itself; an air of grandeur, mingled with
a sweetness that cannot be described; a politeness that, if ever equaled, was never excelled--you'll
see all these excellencies, and ten times more, in this my GLORIANA.

Or, to describe her in a softer style with Rowe,

      The bloom of op'ning flow'rs, unsully'd beauty,
      Softness, and sweetest innocence she wears,
      And looks like nature in the world's first spring.

Adieu, varlets four!--At six, on Monday evening, I expect ye all.

LETTER VI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SUNDAY, APRIL 30.

[Mr. Lovelace, in his last letters, having taken notice of the most
   material passages contained in this letter, the following extracts
   from it are only inserted.

She gives pretty near the same account that he does of what passed
   between them on her resolution to go to church; and of his proposal
   of St. Paul's, and desire of attending her.--She praises his good
   behaviour there; as also the discourse, and the preacher.--Is pleased
   with its seasonableness.--Gives particulars of the conversation
   between them afterwards, and commends the good observations he makes
   upon the sermon.]

I am willing, says she, to have hopes of him: but am so unable to know how to depend upon his
seriousness for an hour together, that all my favourable accounts of him in this respect must
be taken with allowance.

Being very much pressed, I could not tell how to refuse dining with the widow and her nieces
this day.  I am better pleased with them than I ever thought I should be.  I cannot help blaming
myself for my readiness to give severe censures where reputation is concerned.  People's ways,
humours, constitutions, education, and opportunities allowed for, my dear, many persons, as
far as I know, may appear blameless, whom others, of different humours and educations, are
too apt to blame; and who, from the same fault, may be as ready to blame them.  I will therefore
make it a rule to myself for the future--Never to judge peremptorily on first appearances:
but yet I must observe that these are not people I should choose to be intimate with, or whose
ways I can like: although, for the stations they are in, they may go through the world with
tolerable credit.

Mr. Lovelace's behaviour has been such as makes me call this, so far as it is passed, an agreeable
day.  Yet, when easiest as to him, my situation with my friends takes place in my thoughts,
and causes me many a tear.

I am the more pleased with the people of the house, because of the persons of rank they are
acquainted with, and who visits them.

SUNDAY EVENING.

I am still well pleased with Mr. Lovelace's behaviour.  We have had a good deal of serious
discourse together.  The man has really just and good notions.  He confesses how much he is
pleased with this day, and hopes for many such.  Nevertheless, he ingenuously warned me, that
his unlucky vivacity might return: but, he doubted not, that he should be fixed at last by
my example and conversation.

He has given me an entertaining account of the four gentlemen he is to meet to-morrow night.--Entertaining,
I mean for his humourous description of their persons, manners, &c. but such a description
as is far from being to their praise.  Yet he seemed rather to design to divert my melancholy
by it than to degrade them.  I think at bottom, my dear, that he must be a good-natured man;
but that he was spoiled young, for want of check or controul.

I cannot but call this, my circumstances considered, an happy day to the end of it.  Indeed,
my dear, I think I could prefer him to all the men I ever knew, were he but to be always what
he has been this day.  You see how ready I am to own all you have charged me with, when I find
myself out.  It is a difficult thing, I believe, sometimes, for a young creature that is able
to deliberate with herself, to know when she loves, or when she hates: but I am resolved, as
much as possible, to be determined both in my hatred and love by actions, as they make the
man worthy or unworthy.

[She dates again Monday, and declares herself highly displeased at Miss
   Partington's being introduced to her: and still more for being obliged
   to promise to be present at Mr. Lovelace's collation.  She foresees,
   she says, a murder'd evening.]

LETTER VII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE MONDAY NIGHT, MAY 1.

I have just escaped from a very disagreeable company I was obliged, so much against my will,
to be in.  As a very particular relation of this evening's conversation would be painful to
me, you must content yourself with what you shall be able to collect from the outlines, as
I may call them, of the characters of the persons; assisted by the little histories Mr. Lovelace
gave me of each yesterday.

The names of the gentlemen are Belton, Mowbray, Tourville, and Belford. These four, with Mrs.
Sinclair, Miss Partington, the great heiress mentioned in my last, Mr. Lovelace, and myself,
made up the company.

I gave you before the favourable side of Miss Partington's character, such as it was given
to me by Mrs. Sinclair, and her nieces.  I will now add a few words from my own observation
upon her behaviour in this company.

In better company perhaps she would have appeared to less disadvantage: but, notwithstanding
her innocent looks, which Mr. Lovelace also highly praised, he is the last person whose judgment
I would take upon real modesty.  For I observed, that, upon some talk from the gentlemen, not
free enough to be easily censured, yet too indecent in its implication to come from well-bred
persons, in the company of virtuous prople [sic], this young lady was very ready to apprehend;
and yet, by smiles and simperings, to encourage, rather than discourage, the culpable freedoms
of persons, who, in what they went out of their way to say, must either be guilty of absurdity,
meaning nothing, or meaning something of rudeness.*

* Mr. Belford, in Letter XIII. of Vol. V. reminds Mr. Lovelace of some particular topics which
passed in their conversation, extremely to the Lady's honour.

But, indeed, I have seen no women, of whom I had a better opinion than I can say of Mrs. Sinclair,
who have allowed gentlemen, and themselves too, in greater liberties of this sort than I had
thought consistent with that purity of manners which ought to be the distinguishing characteristic
of our sex: For what are words, but the body and dress of thought?  And is not the mind of
a person strongly indicated by outward dress?

But to the gentlemen--as they must be called in right of their ancestors, it seems; for no
other do they appear to have:--

Mr. BELTON has had university education, and was designed for the gown; but that not suiting
with the gaiety of his temper, and an uncle dying, who devised to him a good estate, he quitted
the college, came up to town, and commenced fine gentleman.  He is said to be a man of sense.--
Mr. Belton dresses gaily, but not quite foppishly; drinks hard; keeps all hours, and glories
in doing so; games, and has been hurt by that pernicious diversion: he is about thirty years
of age: his face is a fiery red, somewhat bloated and pimply; and his irregularities threaten
a brief duration to the sensual dream he is in: for he has a short consumption cough, which
seems to denote bad lungs; yet makes himself and his friends merry by his stupid and inconsiderate
jests upon very threatening symptoms which ought to make him more serious.

Mr. MOWBRAY has been a great traveller; speaks as many languages as Mr. Lovelace himself, but
not so fluently: is of a good family: seems to be about thirty-three or thirty-four: tall and
comely in his person: bold and daring in his look: is a large-boned, strong man: has a great
scar in his forehead, with a dent, as if his skull had been beaten in there, and a seamed scar
in his right cheek: he likewise dresses very gaily: has his servants always about him, whom
he is continually calling upon, and sending on the most trifling messages--half a dozen instances
of which we had in the little time I was among them; while they seem to watch the turn of his
fierce eye, to be ready to run, before they have half his message, and serve him with fear
and trembling.  Yet to his equals the man seems tolerable: he talks not amiss upon public entertainments
and diversions, especially upon those abroad: yet has a romancing air, and avers things strongly
which seem quite improbable.  Indeed he doubts nothing but what he ought to believe; for he
jests upon sacred things; and professes to hate the clergy of all religions.  He has high notions
of honour, a world hardly ever out of his mouth; but seems to have no great regard to morals.

Mr. TOURVILLE occasionally told his age; just turned of thirty-one.  He is also of an ancient
family; but, in his person and manners, more of what I call the coxcomb than any of his companions.
He dresses richly; would be thought elegant in the choice and fashion of what he wears; yet,
after all, appears rather tawdry than fine.--One sees by the care he takes of his outside,
and the notice he bespeaks from every one by his own notice of himself, that the inside takes
up the least of his attention.  He dances finely, Mr. Lovelace says; is a master of music,
and singing is one of his principal excellencies.  They prevailed upon him to sing, and he
obliged them both in Italian and French; and, to do him justice, his songs in both were decent.
They were all highly delighted with his performance; but his greatest admirers were, Mrs. Sinclair,
Miss Partington, and himself.  To me he appeared to have a great deal of affectation.

Mr. Tourville's conversation and address are insufferably full of those really gross affronts
upon the understanding of our sex, which the moderns call compliments, and are intended to
pass for so many instances of good breeding, though the most hyperbolical, unnatural stuff
that can be conceived, and which can only serve to show the insincerity of the complimenter,
and the ridiculous light in which the complimented appears in his eyes, if he supposes a woman
capable of relishing the romantic absurdities of his speeches.

He affects to introduce into his common talk Italian and French words; and often answer an
English question in French, which language he greatly prefers to the barbarously hissing English.
But then he never fails to translate into this his odious native tongue the words and the sentences
he speaks in the other two--lest, perhaps, it should be questioned whether he understands what
he says.

He loves to tell stories: always calls them merry, facetious, good, or excellent, before he
begins, in order to bespeak the attention of the hearers, but never gives himself concern in
the progress or conclusion of them, to make good what he promises in his preface.  Indeed he
seldom brings any of them to a conclusion; for if his company have patience to hear him out,
he breaks in upon himself by so many parenthetical intrusions, as one may call them, and has
so many incidents springing in upon him, that he frequently drops his own thread, and sometimes
sits down satisfied half way; or, if at other times he would resume it, he applies to his company
to help him in again, with a Devil fetch him if he remembers what he was driving at--but enough,
and too much of Mr. Tourville.

Mr. BELFORD is the fourth gentleman, and one of whom Mr. Lovelace seems more fond than any
of the rest; for he is a man of tried bravery, it seems; and this pair of friends came acquainted
upon occasion of a quarrel, (possibly about a woman,) which brought on a challenge, and a meeting
at Kensington Gravel-pits; which ended without unhappy consequences, by the mediation of three
gentlemen strangers, just as each had made a pass at the other.

Mr. Belford, it seems, is about seven or eight and twenty.  He is the youngest of the five,
except Mr. Lovelace, and they are perhaps the wickedest; for they seem to lead the other three
as they please.  Mr. Belford, as the others, dresses gaily; but has not those advantages of
person, nor from his dress, which Mr. Lovelace is too proud of.  He has, however, the appearance
and air of a gentleman.  He is well read in classical authors, and in the best English poets
and writers; and, by his means, the conversation took now and then a more agreeable turn. 
And I, who endeavoured to put the best face I could upon my situation, as I passed for Mrs.
Lovelace with them, made shift to join in it, at such times, and received abundance of compliments
from all the company, on the observations I made.*

* See Letter XIII. of Vol. V. above referred to.

Mr. Belford seems good-natured and obliging; and although very complaisant, not so fulsomely
so as Mr. Tourville; and has a polite and easy manner of expressing his sentiments on all occasions.
He seems to delight in a logical way of argumentation, as also does Mr. Belton. These two attacked
each other in this way; and both looked at us women, as if to observe whether we did not admire
this learning, or when they had said a smart thing, their wit.  But Mr. Belford had visibly
the advantage of the other, having quicker parts, and by taking the worst side of the argument,
seemed to think he had.

How little soever matters in general may be to our liking, we are apt, when hope is strong
enough to permit it, to endeavour to make the best we can of the lot we have drawn; and I could
not but observe often, how much Mr. Lovelace excelled all his four friends in every thing they
seemed desirous to excel in.  But as to wit and vivacity, he had no equal there. All the others
gave up to him, when his lips began to open.  The haughty Mowbray would call upon the prating
Tourville for silence, when Lovelace was going to speak.  And when he had spoken, the words,
Charming fellow! with a free word of admiration or envy, fell from every mouth.

He has indeed so many advantages in his person and manner, that what would be inexcusable in
another, would, if one watched not over one's self, and did not endeavour to distinguish what
is the essence of right and wrong, look becoming in him.

Mr. Belford, to my no small vexation and confusion, with the forwardness of a favoured and
intrusted friend, singled me out, on Mr. Lovelace's being sent for down, to make me congratulatory
compliments on my supposed nuptials; which he did with a caution, not to insist too long on
the rigorous vow I had imposed upon a man so universally admired--

'See him among twenty men,' said he, 'all of distinction, and nobody is regarded but Mr. Lovelace.'

It must, indeed, be confessed, that there is, in his whole deportment, a natural dignity, which
renders all insolent or imperative demeanour as unnecessary as inexcusable.  Then that deceiving
sweetness which appears in his smiles, in his accent, in his whole aspect, and address, when
he thinks it worth his while to oblige, or endeavour to attract, how does this show that he
was born innocent, as I may say; that he was not naturally the cruel, the boisterous, the impetuous
creature, which the wicked company he may have fallen into have made him!  For he has, besides,
as open, and, I think, an honest countenance.  Don't you think so, my dear?  On all these specious
appearances, have I founded my hopes of seeing him a reformed man.

But it is amazing to me, I own, that with so much of the gentleman, such a general knowledge
of books and men, such a skill in the learned as well as modern languages, he can take so much
delight as he does in the company of such persons as I have described, and in subjects of frothy
impertinence, unworthy of his talents, and his natural and acquired advantages.  I can think
but of one reason for it, and that must argue a very low mind,--his vanity; which makes him
desirous of being considered as the head of the people he consorts with.--A man to love praise,
yet to be content to draw it from such contaminated springs!

One compliment passed from Mr. Belford to Mr. Lovelace, which hastened my quitting the shocking
company--'You are a happy man, Mr. Lovelace,' said he, upon some fine speeches made him by
Mrs. Sinclair, and assented to by Miss Partington:--'You have so much courage, and so much
wit, that neither man nor woman can stand before you.'

Mr. Belford looked at me when he spoke: yes, my dear, he smilingly looked at me; and he looked
upon his complimented friend; and all their assenting, and therefore affronting eyes, both
men's and women's, were turned upon your Clarissa; at least, my self-reproaching heart made
me think so; for that would hardly permit my eye to look up.

Oh! my dear, were but a woman, who gives reason to the world to think her to be in love with
a man, [And this must be believed to be my case; or to what can my supposed voluntary going
off with Mr. Lovelace be imputed?] to reflect one moment on the exaltation she gives him, and
the disgrace she brings upon herself,--the low pity, the silent contempt, the insolent sneers
and whispers, to which she makes herself obnoxious from a censuring world of both sexes,--how
would she despise herself! and how much more eligible would she think death itself than such
a discovered debasement!

What I have thus in general touched upon, will account to you why I could not more particularly
relate what passed in this evening's conversation: which, as may be gathered from what I have
written, abounded with approbatory accusations, and supposed witty retorts.

LETTER VIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE MONDAY MIDNIGHT.

I am very much vexed and disturbed at an odd incident.  Mrs. Sinclair has just now left me;
I believe in displeasure, on my declining to comply with a request she made me: which was,
to admit Miss Partington to a share in my bed, her house being crowded by her nieces's guests
and by their attendants, as well as by those of Miss Partington.

There might be nothing in it; and my denial carried a stiff and ill- natured appearance.  But
instantly, upon her making the request, it came into my thought, 'that I was in a manner a
stranger to every body in the house: not so much as a servant I could call my own, or of whom
I had any great opinion: that there were four men of free manners in the house, avowed supporters
of Mr. Lovelace in matters of offence; himself a man of enterprise; all, as far as I knew,
(and as I had reason to think by their noisy mirth after I left them,) drinking deeply: that
Miss Partington herself is not so bashful a person as she was represented to me to be: that
officious pains were taken to give me a good opinion of her: and that Mrs. Sinclair made a
greater parade in prefacing the request, than such a request needed.  To deny, thought I, can
carry only an appearance of singularity to people who already think me singular.  To consent
may possibly, if not probably, be attended with inconveniencies.  The consequences of the alternative
so very disproportionate, I thought it more prudent to incur the censure, than to risque the
inconvenience.'

I told her that I was writing a long letter: that I should choose to write till I were sleepy,
and that a companion would be a restraint upon me, and I upon her.

She was loth, she said, that so delicate a young creature, and so great a fortune as Miss Partington,
should be put to lie with Dorcas in a press-bed.  She should be very sorry, if she had asked
an improper thing. She had never been so put to it before.  And Miss would stay up with her
till I had done writing.

Alarmed at this urgency, and it being easier to persist in a denial given, than to give it
at first, I said, Miss Partington should be welcome to my whole bed, and I would retire into
the dining-room, and there, locking myself in, write all the night.

The poor thing, she said, was afraid to lie alone.  To be sure Miss Partington would not put
me to such an inconvenience.

She then withdrew,--but returned--begged my pardon for returning, but the poor child, she said,
was in tears.--Miss Partington had never seen a young lady she so much admired, and so much
wished to imitate as me.  The dear girl hoped that nothing had passed in her behaviour to give
me dislike to her.--Should she bring her to me?

I was very busy, I said: the letter I was writing was upon a very important subject.  I hoped
to see the young lady in the morning, when I would apologize to her for my particularity. 
And then Mrs. Sinclair hesitating, and moving towards the door, (though she turned round to
me again,) I desired her, (lighting her,) to take care how she went down.

Pray, Madam, said she, on the stairs-head, don't give yourself all this trouble. God knows
my heart, I meant no affront: but, since you seem to take my freedom amiss, I beg you will
not acquaint Mr. Lovelace with it; for he perhaps will think me bold and impertinent.

Now, my dear, is not this a particular incident, either as I have made it, or as it was designed?
I don't love to do an uncivil thing.  And if nothing were meant by the request, my refusal
deserves to be called uncivil.  Then I have shown a suspicion of foul usage by it, which surely
dare not be meant.  If just, I ought to apprehend every thing, and fly the house and the man
as I would an infection.  If not just, and if I cannot contrive to clear myself of having entertained
suspicions, by assigning some other plausible reason for my denial, the very staying here will
have an appearance not at all reputable to myself.

I am now out of humour with him,--with myself,--with all the world, but you.  His companions
are shocking creatures.  Why, again I repeat, should he have been desirous to bring me into
such company?  Once more I like him not.--Indeed I do not like him!

LETTER IX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE TUESDAY, MAY 2.

With infinite regret I am obliged to tell you, that I can no longer write to you, or receive
letters from you.--Your mother has sent me a letter enclosed in a cover to Mr. Lovelace, directed
for him at Lord M.'s, (and which was brought him just now,) reproaching me on this subject
in very angry terms, and forbidding me, 'as I would not be thought to intend to make her and
you unhappy, to write to you without her leave.'

This, therefore, is the last you must receive from me, till happier days. And as my prospects
are not very bad, I presume we shall soon have leave to write again; and even to see each other:
since an alliance with a family so honourable as Mr. Lovelace's is will not be a disgrace.

She is pleased to write, 'That if I would wish to inflame you, I should let you know her written
prohibition: but if otherwise, find some way of my own accord (without bringing her into the
question) to decline a correspondence, which I must know she has for some time past forbidden.'
But all I can say is, to beg of you not to be inflamed: to beg of you not to let her know,
or even by your behaviour to her, on this occasion, guess, that I have acquainted you with
my reason for declining to write to you.  For how else, after the scruples I have heretofore
made on this very subject, yet proceeding to correspond, can I honestly satisfy you about my
motives for this sudden stop?  So, my dear, I choose, you see, rather to rely upon your discretion,
than to feign reasons with which you would not be satisfied, but with your usual active penetration,
sift to the bottom, and at last find me to be a mean and low qualifier; and that with an implication
injurious to you, that I supposed you had not prudence enough to be trusted with the naked truth.

I repeat, that my prospects are not bad.  'The house, I presume, will soon be taken.  The people
here are very respectful, notwithstanding my nicety about Miss Partington.  Miss Martin, who
is near marriage with an eminent tradesman in the Strand, just now, in a very respectful manner,
asked my opinion of some patterns of rich silks for the occasion.  The widow has a less forbidding
appearance than at first. MAY 3.

I am astonished that my mother should take such a step--purely to exercise an unreasonable
act of authority; and to oblige the most remorseless hearts in the world.  If I find that I
can be of use to you, either by advice or information, do you think I will not give it!--Were
it to any other person, much less dear to me than you are, do you think, in such a case, I
would forbear giving it?

Mr. Hickman, who pretends to a little casuistry in such nice matters, is of opinion that I
ought not to decline such a correspondence thus circumstanced.  And it is well he is; for my
mother having set me up, I must have somebody to quarrel with.

This I will come into if it will make you easy--I will forbear to write to you for a few days,
if nothing extraordinary happen, and till the rigour of her prohibition is abated.  But be
assured that I will not dispense with your writing to me.  My heart, my conscience, my honour,
will not permit it.

But how will I help myself?--How!--easily enough.  For I do assure you that I want but very
little farther provocation to fly privately to London.  And if I do, I will not leave you till
I see you either honourably married, or absolutely quit of the wretch: and, in this last case,
I will take you down with me, in defiance of the whole world: or, if you refuse to go with
me, stay with you, and accompany you as your shadow whithersoever you go.

Don't be frightened at this declaration.  There is but one consideration, and but one hope,
that withhold me, watched as I am in all my retirements; obliged to read to her without a voice;
to work in her presence without fingers; and to lie with her every night against my will. 
The consideration is, lest you should apprehend that a step of this nature would look like
a doubling of your fault, in the eyes of such as think your going away a fault.  The hope is,
that things will still end happily, and that some people will have reason to take shame to
themselves for the sorry part they have acted.  Nevertheless I am often balancing--but your
resolving to give up the correspondence at this crisis will turn the scale.  Write, therefore,
or take the consequence.

A few words upon the subject of your last letters.  I know not whether your brother's wise
project be given up or not.  A dead silence reigns in your family.  Your brother was absent
three days; then at home one; and is now absent: but whether with Singleton, or not, I cannot
find out.

By your account of your wretch's companions, I see not but they are a set of infernals, and
he the Beelzebub.  What could he mean, as you say, by his earnestness to bring you into such
company, and to give you such an opportunity to make him and them reflecting-glasses to one
another?  The man's a fool, to be sure, my dear--a silly fellow, at least--the wretches must
put on their best before you, no doubt--Lords of the creation!-- noble fellows these!--Yet
who knows how many poor despicable souls of our sex the worst of them has had to whine after him!

You have brought an inconvenience upon yourself, as you observe, by your refusal of Miss Partington
for your bedfellow.  Pity you had not admitted her! watchful as you are, what could have happened?
If violence were intended, he would not stay for the night.  You might have sat up after her,
or not gone to bed.  Mrs. Sinclair pressed it too far.  You was over-scrupulous.

If any thing happen to delay your nuptials, I would advise you to remove: but, if you marry,
perhaps you may think it no great matter to stay where you are till you take possession of
your own estate.  The knot once tied, and with so resolute a man, it is my opinion your relations
will soon resign what they cannot legally hold: and, were even a litigation to follow, you
will not be able, nor ought you to be willing, to help it: for your estate will then be his
right; and it will be unjust to wish it to be withheld from him.

One thing I would advise you to think of; and that is, of proper settlements: it will be to
the credit of your prudence and of his justice (and the more as matters stand) that something
of this should be done before you marry.  Bad as he is, nobody accounts him a sordid man. 
And I wonder he has been hitherto silent on that subject.

I am not displeased with his proposal about the widow lady's house.  I think it will do very
well.  But if it must be three weeks before you can be certain about it, surely you need not
put off his day for that space: and he may bespeak his equipages.  Surprising to me, as well
as to you, that he could be so acquiescent!

I repeat--continue to write to me.  I insist upon it; and that as minutely as possible: or,
take the consequence.  I send this by a particular hand.

I forego every other engagement, I suspend ever wish, I banish every other fear, to take up
my pen, to beg of you that you will not think of being guilty of such an act of love as I can
never thank you for; but must for ever regret.  If I must continue to write to you, I must.
I know full well your impatience of control, when you have the least imagination that your
generosity or friendship is likely to be wondered at.

My dearest, dearest creature, would you incur a maternal, as I have a paternal, malediction?
Would not the world think there was an infection in my fault, if it were to be followed by
Miss Howe?  There are some points so flagrantly wrong that they will not bear to be argued
upon. This is one of them.  I need not give reasons against such a rashness. Heaven forbid
that it should be known that you had it but once in your thought, be your motives ever so noble
and generous, to follow so bad an example, the rather, as that you would, in such a case, want
the extenuations that might be pleaded in my favour; and particularly that one of being surprised
into the unhappy step!

The restraint your mother lays you under would not have appeared heavy to you but on my account.
Would you had once thought it a hardship to be admitted to a part of her bed?--How did I use
to be delighted with such a favour from my mother! how did I love to work in her presence!--So
did you in the presence of your's once.  And to read to her in winter evenings I know was one
of your joys.--Do not give me cause to reproach myself on the reason that may be assigned for
the change in you.

Learn, my dear, I beseech you, learn to subdue your own passions.  Be the motives what they
will, excess is excess.  Those passions in our sex, which we take pains to subdue, may have
one and the same source with those infinitely-blacker passions, which we used so often to condemn
in the violent and headstrong of the other sex; and which may only be heightened in them by
custom, and their freer education.  Let us both, my dear, ponder well this thought: look into
ourselves,  and fear.

If I write, as I find I must, I insist upon your forbearing to write. Your silence to this
shall be the sign to me that you will not think of the rashness you threaten me with: and that
you will obey your mother as to your own part of the correspondence, however; especially as
you can inform or advise me in every weighty case by Mr. Hickman's pen.

My trembling writing will show you, my dear impetuous creature, what a trembling heart you
have given to

Your ever obliged, Or, if you take so rash a step, Your for ever disobliged, CLARISSA HARLOWE.

My clothes were brought to me just now.  But you have so much discomposed me, that I have no
heart to look into the trunks. Why, why, my dear, will you fright me with your flaming love?
discomposure gives distress to a weak heart, whether it arise from friendship or enmity.

A servant of Mr. Lovelace carries this to Mr. Hickman for dispatch-sake. Let that worthy man's
pen relieve my heart from this new uneasiness.

LETTER XII

MR. HICKMAN, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE [SENT TO WILSON'S BY A PARTICULAR HAND.] FRIDAY, MAY 5.

MADAM,

I have the honour of dear Miss Howe's commands to acquaint you, without knowing the occasion,
'That she is excessively concerned for the concern she has given you in her last letter: and
that, if you will but write to her, under cover as before, she will have no thoughts of what
you are so very apprehensive about.'--Yet she bid me write, 'That if she had bit the least
imagination that she can serve you, and save you,' those are her words, 'all the censures of
the world will be but of second consideration with her.'  I have great temptations, on this
occasion, to express my own resentments upon your present state; but not being fully apprized
of what that is--only conjecturing from the disturbance upon the mind of the dearest lady in
the world to me, and the most sincere of friends to you, that that is not altogether so happy
as were to be wished; and being, moreover, forbid to enter into the cruel subject; I can only
offer, as I do, my best and faithfullest services! and wish you a happy deliverance from all
your troubles.  For I am,

Most excellent young lady, Your faithful and most obedient servant, CH. HICKMAN.

LETTER XIII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. TUESDAY, MAY 2.

Mercury, as the fabulist tells us, having the curiosity to know the estimation he stood in
among mortals, descended in disguise, and in a statuary's shop cheapened a Jupiter, then a
Juno, then one, then another, of the dii majores; and, at last, asked, What price that same
statue of Mercury bore?  O Sir, says the artist, buy one of the others, and I'll throw you
in that for nothing.

How sheepish must the god of thieves look upon this rebuff to his vanity!

So thou! a thousand pounds wouldst thou give for the good opinion of this single lady--to be
only thought tolerably of, and not quite unworthy of her conversation, would make thee happy.
And at parting last night, or rather this morning, thou madest me promise a few lines to Edgware,
to let thee know what she thinks of thee, and of thy brethren.

Thy thousand pounds, Jack, is all thy own: for most heartily does she dislike ye all--thee
as much as any of the rest.

I am sorry for it too, as to thy part; for two reasons--one, that I think thy motive for thy
curiosity was fear of consciousness: whereas that of the arch-thief was vanity, intolerable
vanity: and he was therefore justly sent away with a blush upon his cheeks to heaven, and could
not brag--the other, that I am afraid, if she dislikes thee, she dislikes me: for are we not
birds of a feather?

I must never talk of reformation, she told me, having such companions, and taking such delight,
as I seemed to take, in their frothy conversation.

I, no more than you, Jack, imagined she could possibly like ye: but then, as my friends, I
thought a person of her education would have been more sparing of her censures.

I don't know how it is, Belford; but women think themselves entitled to take any freedoms with
us; while we are unpolite, forsooth, and I can't tell what, if we don't tell a pack of cursed
lies, and make black white, in their favour--teaching us to be hypocrites, yet stigmatizing
us, at other times, for deceivers.

I defended ye all as well as I could: but you know there was no attempting aught but a palliative
defence, to one of her principles.

I will summarily give thee a few of my pleas.

'To the pure, every little deviation seemed offensive: yet I saw not, that there was any thing
amiss the whole evening, either in the words or behaviour of any of my friends.  Some people
could talk but upon one or two subjects: she upon every one: no wonder, therefore, they talked
to what they understood best; and to mere objects of sense.  Had she honoured us with more
of her conversation, she would have been less disgusted with ours; for she saw how every one
was prepared to admire her, whenever she opened her lips.  You, in particular, had said, when
she retired, that virtue itself spoke when she spoke, but that you had such an awe upon you,
after she had favoured us with an observation or two on a subject started, that you should
ever be afraid in her company to be found most exceptionable, when you intended to be least so.'

Plainly, she said, she neither liked my companions nor the house she was in.

I liked not the house any more than she: though the people were very obliging, and she had
owned they were less exceptionable to herself than at first: And were we not about another
of our own?

She did not like Miss Partington--let her fortune be what it would, and she had heard a great
deal said of her fortune, she should not choose an intimacy with her.  She thought it was a
hardship to be put upon such a difficulty as she was put upon the preceding night, when there
were lodgers in the front-house, whom they had reason to be freer with, than, upon so short
an acquaintance, with her.

I pretended to be an utter stranger as to this particular; and, when she explained herself
upon it, condemned Mrs. Sinclair's request, and called it a confident one.

She, artfully, made lighter of her denial of the girl for a bedfellow, than she thought of
it, I could see that; for it was plain, she supposed there was room for me to think she had
been either over-nice, or over- cautious.

I offered to resent Mrs. Sinclair's freedom.

No; there was no great matter in it.  It was best to let it pass.  It might be thought more
particular in her to deny such a request, than in Mrs. Sinclair to make it, or in Miss Partington
to expect it to be complied with.  But as the people below had a large acquaintance, she did
not know how often she might indeed have her retirements invaded, if she gave way.  And indeed
there were levities in the behaviour of that young lady, which she could not so far pass over
as to wish an intimacy with her.

I said, I liked Miss Partington as little as she could.  Miss Partington was a silly young
creature; who seemed to justify the watchfulness of her guardians over her.--But nevertheless,
as to her own, that I thought the girl (for girl she was, as to discretion) not exceptionable;
only carrying herself like a free good-natured creature who believed herself secure in the
honour of her company.

It was very well said of me, she replied: but if that young lady were so well satisfied with
her company, she must needs say, that I was very kind to suppose her such an innocent--for
her own part, she had seen nothing of the London world: but thought, she must tell me plainly,
that she never was in such company in her life; nor ever again wished to be in such.

There, Belford!--Worse off than Mercury!--Art thou not?

I was nettled.  Hard would be the lot of more discreet women, as far as I knew, that Miss Partington,
were they to be judged by so rigid a virtue as hers.

Not so, she said: but if I really saw nothing exceptionable to a virtuous mind, in that young
person's behaviour, my ignorance of better behaviour was, she must needs tell me, as pitiable
as hers: and it were to be wished, that minds so paired, for their own sakes should never be
separated.

See, Jack, what I get by my charity!

I thanked her heartily.  But said, that I must take the liberty to observe, that good folks
were generally so uncharitable, that, devil take me, if I would choose to be good, were the
consequence to be that I must think hardly of the whole world besides.

She congratulated me upon my charity; but told me, that to enlarge her own, she hoped it would
not be expected of her to approve of the low company I had brought her into last night.

No exception for thee, Belford!--Safe is thy thousand pounds.

I saw not, I said, begging her pardon, that she liked any body.--[Plain dealing for plain dealing,
Jack!--Why then did she abuse my friends?] However, let me but know whom and what she did or
did not like; and, if possible, I would like and dislike the very same persons and things.

She bid me then, in a pet, dislike myself.

Cursed severe!--Does she think she must not pay for it one day, or one night?--And if one,
many; that's my comfort.

I was in such a train of being happy, I said, before my earnestness to procure her to favour
my friends with her company, that I wished the devil had had as well my friends as Miss Partington--and
yet, I must say, that I saw not how good people could answer half their end, which is to reform
the wicked by precept as well as example, were they to accompany only with the good.

I had the like to have been blasted by two or three flashes of lightning from her indignant
eyes; and she turned scornfully from me, and retired to her own apartment.

Once more, Jack, safe, as thou seest, is thy thousand pounds.

She says, I am not a polite man.  But is she, in the instance before us, more polite for a woman?

And now, dost thou not think that I owe my charmer some revenge for her cruelty in obliging
such a fine young creature, and so vast a fortune, as Miss Partington, to crowd into a press-bed
with Dorcas the maid-servant of the proud refuser?--Miss Partington too (with tears) declared,
by Mrs. Sinclair, that would Mrs. Lovelace do her the honour of a visit at Barnet, the best
bed and best room in her guardian's house should be at her service.  Thinkest thou that I could
not guess at her dishonourable fears of me?--that she apprehended, that the supposed husband
would endeavour to take possession of his own?--and that Miss Partington would be willing to
contribute to such a piece of justice?

Thus, then, thou both remindest, and defiest me, charmer!--And since thou reliest more on thy
own precaution than upon my honour; be it unto thee, fair one, as thou apprehendest.

And now, Jack, let me know, what thy opinion, and the opinions of thy brother varlets, are
of my Gloriana.

I have just now heard, that Hannah hopes to be soon well enough to attend her young lady, when
in London.  It seems the girl has had no physician. I must send her one, out of pure love and
respect to her mistress.  Who knows but medicine may weaken nature, and strengthen the disease?--As
her malady is not a fever, very likely it may do so.--But perhaps the wench's hopes are too
forward.  Blustering weather in this month yet.--And that is bad for rheumatic complaints.

Just as I had sealed up the enclosed, comes a letter to my beloved, in a cover to me, directed
to Lord M.'s.  From whom, thinkest thou?--From Mrs. Howe!

And what the contents?

How should I know, unless the dear creature had communicated them to me? But a very cruel letter
I believe it is, by the effect it had upon her. The tears ran down her cheeks as she read it;
and her colour changed several times.  No end of her persecutions, I think!

'What a cruelty in my fate!' said the sweet lamenter.--'Now the only comfort of my life must
be given up!'

Miss Howe's correspondence, no doubt.

But should she be so much grieved at this?  This correspondence was prohibited before, and
that, to the daughter, in the strongest terms: but yet carried on by both; although a brace
of impeccables, an't please ye.  Could they expect, that a mother would not vindicate her authority?
--and finding her prohibition ineffectual with her perverse daughter, was it not reasonable
to suppose she would try what effect it would have upon her daughter's friend?--And now I believe
the end will be effectually answered: for my beloved, I dare say, will make a point of conscience
of it.

I hate cruelty, especially in women; and should have been more concerned for this instance
of it Mrs. Howe, had I not had a stronger instance of the same in my beloved to Miss Partington:
For how did she know, since she was so much afraid for herself, whom Dorcas might let in to
that innocent and less watchful young lady?  But nevertheless I must needs own, that I am not
very sorry for this prohibition, let it originally come from the Harlowes, or from whom it
will; because I make no doubt, that it is owing to Miss Howe, in a great measure, that my beloved
is so much upon her guard, and thinks so hardly of me.  And who can tell, as characters here
are so tender, and some disguises so flimsy, what consequences might follow this undutiful
correspondence?--I say, therefore, I am not sorry for it: now will she not have any body to
compare notes with: any body to alarm her: and I may be saved the guilt and disobligation of
inspecting into a correspondence that has long made me uneasy.

How every ting works for me!--Why will this charming creature make such contrivances necessary,
as will increase my trouble, and my guilt too, as some will account it?  But why, rather I
should ask, will she fight against her stars?

LETTER XV

MR. BELFORD, TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ. EDGWARE, TUESDAY NIGHT, MAY 2.

Without staying for the promised letter from you to inform us what the lady says of us, I write
to tell you, that we are all of one opinion with regard to her; which is, that there is not
of her age a finer woman in the world, as to her understanding.  As for her person, she is
at the age of bloom, and an admirable creature; a perfect beauty: but this poorer praise, a
man, who has been honoured with her conversation, can hardly descend to give; and yet she was
brought amongst us contrary to her will.

Permit me, dear Lovelace, to be a mean of saving this excellent creature from the dangers she
hourly runs from the most plotting heart in the world.  In a former, I pleaded your own family,
Lord M.'s wishes particularly; and then I had not seen her: but now, I join her sake, honour's
sake, motives of justice, generosity, gratitude, and humanity, which are all concerned in the
preservation of so fine a woman.  Thou knowest not the anguish I should have had, (whence arising,
I cannot devise,) had I not known before I set out this morning, that the incomparable creature
had disappointed thee in thy cursed view of getting her to admit the specious Partington for
a bed-fellow.

I have done nothing but talk of this lady ever since I saw her.  There is something so awful,
and yet so sweet, in her aspect, that were I to have the virtues and the graces all drawn in
one piece, they should be taken, every one of them, from different airs and attributes in her.
She was born to adorn the age she was given to, and would be an ornament to the first dignity.
What a piercing, yet gentle eye; every glance I thought mingled with love and fear of you!
What a sweet smile darting through the cloud that overspread her fair face, demonstrating that
she had more apprehensions and grief at her heart than she cared to express!

You may think what I am going to write too flighty: but, by my faith, I have conceived such
a profound reverence for her sense and judgment, that, far from thinking the man excusable
who should treat her basely, I am ready to regret that such an angel of a woman should even
marry. She is in my eye all mind: and were she to meet with a man all mind likewise, why should
the charming qualities she is mistress of be endangered?  Why should such an angel be plunged
so low as into the vulgar offices of a domestic life?  Were she mine, I should hardly wish
to see her a mother, unless there were a kind of moral certainty, that minds like hers could
be propagated.  For why, in short, should not the work of bodies be left to mere bodies?  I
know, that you yourself have an opinion of her little less exalted.  Belton, Mowbray, Tourville,
are all of my mind; are full of her praises; and swear, it would be a million of pities to
ruin a woman in whose fall none but devils can rejoice.

What must that merit and excellence be which can extort this from us, freelivers, like yourself,
and all of your just resentments against the rest of her family, and offered our assistance
to execute your vengeance on them?  But we cannot think it reasonable that you should punish
an innocent creature, who loves you so well, and who is your protection, and has suffered so
much for you, for the faults of her relations.

And here let me put a serious question or two.  Thinkest thou, truly admirable as this lady
is, that the end thou proposest to thyself, if obtained, is answerable to the means, to the
trouble thou givest thyself, and to the perfidies, tricks, stratagems, and contrivances thou
has already been guilty of, and still meditatest?  In every real excellence she surpasses all
her sex.  But in the article thou seekest to subdue her for, a mere sensualist, a Partington,
a Horton, a Martin, would make a sensualist a thousand times happier than she either will or can.

      Sweet are the joys that come with willingness.

And wouldst thou make her unhappy for her whole life, and thyself not happy for a single moment?

Hitherto, it is not too late; and that perhaps is as much as can be said, if thou meanest to
preserve her esteem and good opinion, as well as person; for I think it is impossible she can
get out of thy hands now she is in this accursed house.  O that damned hypocritical Sinclair,
as thou callest her!  How was it possible she should behave so speciously as she did all the
time the lady staid with us!--Be honest, and marry; and be thankful that she will condescend
to have thee.  If thou dost not, thou wilt be the worst of men; and wilt be condemned in this
world and the next: as I am sure thou oughtest, and shouldest too, wert thou to be judged by
one, who never before was so much touched in a woman's favour; and whom thou knowest to be

Thy partial friend, J. BELFORD.

Our companions consented that I should withdraw to write to the above
effect.  They can make nothing of the characters we write in; and so I
read this to them.  They approve of it; and of their own motion each man
would set his name to it.  I would not delay sending it, for fear of some
detestable scheme taking place.
                                     THOMAS BELTON,
                                     RICHARD MOWBRAY,
                                     JAMES TOURVILLE.

Just now are brought me both yours.  I vary not my opinion, nor forbear my earnest prayers
to you in her behalf, notwithstanding her dislike of me.

LETTER XVI

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. WEDNESDAY, MAY 3.

When I have already taken pains to acquaint thee in full with regard to my views, designs,
and resolutions, with regard to this admirable woman, it is very extraordinary that thou shouldst
vapour as thou dost in her behalf, when I have made no trial, no attempt: and yet, givest it
as thy opinion in a former letter, that advantage may be taken of the situation she is in;
and that she may be overcome.

Most of thy reflections, particularly that which respects the difference as to the joys to
be given by the virtuous and libertine of her sex, are fitter to come in as after-reflections
than as antecedencies.

I own with thee, and with the poet, that sweet are the joys that come with willingness--But
is it to be expected, that a woman of education, and a lover of forms, will yield before she
is attacked?  And have I so much as summoned this to surrender?  I doubt not but I shall meet
with difficulty.  I must therefore make my first effort by surprise.  There may possibly be
some cruelty necessary: but there may be consent in struggle; there may be yielding in resistance.
But the first conflict over, whether the following may not be weaker and weaker, till willingness
ensue, is the point to be tried.  I will illustrate what I have said by the simile of a bird
new caught.  We begin, when boys, with birds; and when grown up, go on to women; and both perhaps,
in turn, experience our sportive cruelty.

Hast thou not observed, the charming gradations by which the ensnared volatile has been brought
to bear with its new condition? how, at first, refusing all sustenance, it beats and bruises
itself against its wires, till it makes its gay plumage fly about, and over-spread its well-secured
cage.  Now it gets out its head; sticking only at its beautiful shoulders: then, with difficulty,
drawing back its head, it gasps for breath, and erectly perched, with meditating eyes, first
surveys, and then attempts, its wired canopy.  As it gets its pretty head and sides, bites
the wires, and pecks at the fingers of its delighted tamer.  Till at last, finding its efforts
ineffectual, quite tired and breathless, it lays itself down, and pants at the bottom of the
cage, seeming to bemoan its cruel fate and forfeited liberty.  And after a few days, its struggles
to escape still diminishing as it finds it to no purpose to attempt it, its new habitation
becomes familiar; and it hops about from perch to perch, resumes its wonted cheerfulness, and
every day sings a song to amuse itself and reward its keeper.

Now le me tell thee, that I have known a bird actually starve itself, and die with grief, at
its being caught and caged.  But never did I meet with a woman who was so silly.--Yet have
I heard the dear souls most vehemently threaten their own lives on such an occasion.  But it
is saying nothing in a woman's favour, if we do not allow her to have more sense than a bird.
And yet we must all own, that it is more difficult to catch a bird than a lady.

To pursue the comparison--If the disappointment of the captivated lady be very great, she will
threaten, indeed, as I said: she will even refuse her sustenance for some time, especially
if you entreat her much, and she thinks she gives you concern by her refusal.  But then the
stomach of the dear sullen one will soon return.  'Tis pretty to see how she comes to by degrees:
pressed by appetite, she will first steal, perhaps, a weeping morsel by herself; then be brought
to piddle and sigh, and sigh and piddle before you; now-and-then, if her viands be unsavoury,
swallowing with them a relishing tear or two: then she comes to eat and drink, to oblige you:
then resolves to live for your sake: her exclamations will, in the next place, be turned into
blandishments; her vehement upbraidings into gentle murmuring--how dare you, traitor!--into
how could you, dearest!  She will draw you to her, instead of pushing you from her: no longer,
with unsheathed claws, will she resist you; but, like a pretty, playful, wanton kitten, with
gentle paws, and concealed talons, tap your cheek, and with intermingled smiles, and tears,
and caresses, implore your consideration for her, and your constancy: all the favour she then
has to ask of you!--And this is the time, were it given to man to confine himself to one object,
to be happier every day than another.

Now, Belford, were I to go no farther than I have gone with my beloved Miss Harlowe, how shall
I know the difference between her and another bird?  To let her fly now, what a pretty jest
would that be!--How do I know, except I try, whether she may not be brought to sing me a fine
song, and to be as well contented as I have brought other birds to be, and very shy ones too?

But now let us reflect a little upon the confounded partiality of us human creatures.  I can
give two or three familiar, and if they were not familiar, they would be shocking, instances
of the cruelty both of men and women, with respect to other creatures, perhaps as worthy as
(at least more innocent than) themselves.  By my soul, Jack, there is more of the savage on
human nature than we are commonly aware of.  Nor is it, after all, so much amiss, that we sometimes
avenge the more innocent animals upon our own species.

To particulars:

How usual a thing is it for women as well as men, without the least remorse, to ensnare, to
cage, and torment, and even with burning knitting-needles to put out the eyes of the poor feather'd
songster [thou seest I have not yet done with birds]; which however, in proportion to its bulk,
has more life than themselves (for a bird is all soul;) and of consequence has as much feeling
as the human creature! when at the same time, if an honest fellow, by the gentlest persuasion,
and the softest arts, has the good luck to prevail upon a mew'd-up lady, to countenance her
own escape, and she consents to break cage, and be set a flying into the all-cheering air of
liberty, mercy on us! what an outcry is generally raised against him!

Just like what you and I once saw raised in a paltry village near Chelmsford, after a poor
hungry fox, who, watching his opportunity, had seized by the neck, and shouldered a sleek-feathered
goose: at what time we beheld the whole vicinage of boys and girls, old men, and old women,
all the furrows and wrinkles of the latter filled up with malice for the time; the old men
armed with prongs, pitch-forks, clubs, and catsticks; the old women with mops, brooms, fire-shovels,
tongs, and pokers; and the younger fry with dirt, stones, and brickbats, gathering as they
ran like a snowball, in pursuit of the wind-outstripping prowler; all the mongrel curs of the
circumjacencies yelp, yelp, yelp, at their heels, completing the horrid chorus.

Rememebrest thou not this scene?  Surely thou must.  My imagination, inflamed by a tender sympathy
for the danger of the adventurous marauder, represents it to my eye as if it were but yesterday.
And dost thou not recollect how generously glad we were, as if our own case, that honest reynard,
by the help of a lucky stile, over which both old and young tumbled upon one another, and a
winding course, escaped their brutal fury, and flying catsticks; and how, in fancy, we followed
him to his undiscovered retreat; and imagined we beheld the intrepid thief enjoying his dear-earned
purchase with a delight proportioned to his past danger?

I once made a charming little savage severely repent the delight she took in seeing her tabby
favourite make cruel sport with a pretty sleek bead- eyed mouse, before she devoured it.  Egad,
my love, said I to myself, as I sat meditating the scene, I am determined to lie in wait for
a fit opportunity to try how thou wilt like to be tost over my head, and be caught again: how
thou wilt like to be parted from me, and pulled to me. Yet will I rather give life than take
it away, as this barbarous quadruped has at last done by her prey.  And after all was over
between my girl and me, I reminded her of the incident to which my resolution was owing.

Nor had I at another time any mercy upon the daughter of an old epicure, who had taught the
girl, without the least remorse, to roast lobsters alive; to cause a poor pig to be whipt to
death; to scrape carp the contrary way of the scales, making them leap in the stew-pan, and
dressing them in their own blood for sauce.  And this for luxury-sake, and to provoke an appetite;
which I had without stimulation, in my way, and that I can tell thee a very ravenous one.

Many more instances of the like nature could I give, were I to leave nothing to thyself, to
shew that the best take the same liberties, and perhaps worse, with some sort of creatures,
that we take with others; all creatures still! and creatures too, as I have observed above,
replete with strong life, and sensible feeling!--If therefore people pretend to mercy, let
mercy go through all their actions.  I have heard somewhere, that a merciful man is merciful
to his beast.

So much at present for those parts of thy letter in which thou urgest to me motives of compassion
for the lady.

But I guess at thy principal motive in this thy earnestness in behalf of this charming creature.
I know that thou correspondest with Lord M. who is impatient, and has long been desirous to
see me shackled.  And thou wantest to make a merit with the uncle, with a view to one of his
nieces. But knowest thou not, that my consent will be wanting to complete thy wishes?--And
what a commendation will it be of thee to such a girl as Charlotte, when I shall acquaint her
with the affront thou puttest upon the whole sex, by asking, Whether I think my reward, when
I have subdued the most charming woman in the world, will be equal to my trouble?-- Which,
thinkest thou, will a woman of spirit soonest forgive; the undervaluing varlet who can put
such a question; or him, who prefers the pursuit and conquest of a fine woman to all the joys
of life?  Have I not known even a virtuous woman, as she would be thought, vow everlasting
antipathy to a man who gave out that she was too old for him to attempt? And did not Essex's
personal reflection on Queen Elizabeth, that she was old and crooked, contribute more to his
ruin than his treason?

But another word or two, as to thy objection relating to my trouble and reward.

Does not the keen fox-hunter endanger his neck and his bones in pursuit of a vermin, which,
when killed, is neither fit food for men nor dogs?

Do not the hunters of the noble game value the venison less than the sport?

Why then should I be reflected upon, and the sex affronted, for my patience and perseverance
in the most noble of all chases; and for not being a poacher in love, as thy question be made
to imply?

Learn of thy master, for the future, to treat more respectfully a sex that yields us our principal
diversions and delights.

Proceed anon.

LETTER XVII

MR. LOVELACE [IN CONTINUATION.]

Well sayest thou, that mine is the most plotting heart in the world. Thou dost me honour; and
I thank thee heartily.  Thou art no bad judge. How like Boileau's parson I strut behind my
double chin!  Am I not obliged to deserve thy compliment?  And wouldst thou have me repent
of a murder before I have committed it?

'The Virtues and Graces are this Lady's handmaids.  She was certainly born to adorn the age
she was given to.'--Well said, Jack--'And would be an ornament to the first dignity.'  But
what praise is that, unless the first dignity were adorned with the first merit?--Dignity!
gew-gaw!-- First dignity! thou idiot!--Art thou, who knowest me, so taken with ermine and tinsel?--I,
who have won the gold, am only fit to wear it. For the future therefore correct thy style,
and proclaim her the ornament of the happiest man, and (respecting herself and sex) the greatest
conqueror in the world.

Then, that she loves me, as thou imaginest, by no means appears clear to me.  Her conditional
offers to renounce me; the little confidence she places in me; entitle me to ask, What merit
can she have with a man, who won her in spite of herself; and who fairly, in set and obstinate
battle, took her prisoner?

As to what thou inferrest from her eye when with us, thou knowest nothing of her heart from
that, if thou imaginest there was one glance of love shot from it.  Well did I note her eye,
and plainly did I see, that it was all but just civil disgust to me and to the company I had
brought her into.  Her early retiring that night, against all entreaty, might have convinced
thee, that there was very little of the gentle in her heart for me.  And her eye never knew
what it was to contradict her heart.

She is, thou sayest, all mind.  So say I.  But why shouldst thou imagine that such a mind as
hers, meeting with such a one as mine, and, to dwell upon the word, meeting with an inclination
in hers, should not propagate minds like her own?

Were I to take thy stupid advice, and marry; what a figure should I make in rakish annals!
The lady in my power: yet not have intended to put herself in my power: declaring against love,
and a rebel to it: so much open-eyed caution: no confidence  in my honour: her family expecting
the worst hath passed: herself seeming to expect that the worst will be attempted: [Priscilla
Partington for that!]  What! wouldst thou not have me act in character?

But why callest thou the lady innocent?  And why sayest thou she loves me?

By innocent, with regard to me, and not taken as a general character, I must insist upon it
she is not innocent.  Can she be innocent, who, by wishing to shackle me in the prime and glory
of my youth, with such a capacity as I have for noble mischief,* would make my perdition more
certain, were I to break, as I doubt I should, the most solemn vow I could make?  I say no
man ought to take even a common oath, who thinks he cannot keep it.  This is conscience!  This
is honour!--And when I think I can keep the marriage-vow, then will it be time to marry.

* See Vol. III. Letter XXIII. Paragr. 4.

No doubt of it, as thou sayest, the devils would rejoice in the fall of such a woman.  But
this is my confidence, that I shall have it in my power to marry when I will.  And if I do
her this justice, shall I not have a claim of her gratitude?  And will she not think herself
the obliged, rather than the obliger?  Then let me tell thee, Belford, it is impossible so
far to hurt the morals of this lady, as thou and thy brother varlets have hurt others of the
sex, who now are casting about the town firebrands and double death.  Take ye that thistle
to mumble upon.

***

A short interruption.  I now resume.

That the morals of this lady cannot fail, is a consideration that will lessen the guilt on
both sides.  And if, when subdued, she knows but how to middle the matter between virtue and
love, then will she be a wife for me: for already I am convinced that there is not a woman
in the world that is love-proof and plot-proof, if she be not the person.

And now imagine (the charmer overcome) thou seest me sitting supinely cross-kneed, reclining
on my sofa, the god of love dancing in my eyes, and rejoicing in every mantling feature; the
sweet rogue, late such a proud rogue, wholly in my power, moving up slowly to me, at my beck,
with heaving sighs, half-pronounced upbraidings from murmuring lips, her finger in her eye,
and quickening her pace at my Come hither, dearest!

One hand stuck in my side, the other extended to encourage her bashful approach--Kiss me, love!--sweet,
as Jack Belford says, are the joys that come with willingness.

She tenders her purple mouth [her coral lips will be purple then, Jack!]: sigh not so deeply,
my beloved!--Happier hours await thy humble love, than did thy proud resistance.

Once more bent to my ardent lips the swanny glossiness of a neck late so stately.--

There's my precious!

Again!

Obliging loveliness!

O my ever-blooming glory!  I have tried thee enough.  To-morrow's sun--

Then I rise, and fold to my almost-talking heart the throbbing-bosom'd charmer.

And now shall thy humble pride confess its obligation to me!

To-morrow's sun--and then I disengage myself from the bashful passive, and stalk about the
room--to-morrow's sun shall gild the altar at which my vows shall be paid thee!

Then, Jack, the rapture! then the darted sun-beams from her gladdened eye, drinking up, at
one sip, the precious distillation from the pearl- dropt cheek!  Then hands ardently folded,
eyes seeming to pronounce, God bless my Lovelace! to supply the joy-locked tongue: her transports
too strong, and expression too weak, to give utterance to her grateful meanings!--All--all
the studies--all the studies of her future life vowed and devoted (when she can speak) to acknowledge
and return the perpetual obligation!

If I could bring my charmer to this, would it not be the eligible of eligibles?--Is it not
worth trying for?--As I said, I can marry her when I will.  She can be nobody's but mine, neither
for shame, nor by choice, nor yet by address: for who, that knows my character, believes that
the worst she dreads is now to be dreaded?

I have the highest opinion that man can have (thou knowest I have) of the merit and perfections
of this admirable woman; of her virtue and honour too, although thou, in a former, art of opinion
that she may be overcome.*  Am I not therefore obliged to go further, in order to contradict
thee, and, as I have often urged, to be sure that she is what I really think her to be, and,
if I am ever to marry her, hope to find her?

* See Vol. III. Letter LI. Paragr. 9.

Then this lady is a mistress of our passions: no one ever had to so much perfection the art
of moving.  This all her family know, and have equally feared and revered her for it.  This
I know too; and doubt not more and more to experience.  How charmingly must this divine creature
warble forth (if a proper occasion be given) her melodious elegiacs!--Infinite beauties are
there in a weeping eye.  I first taught the two nymphs below to distinguish the several accents
of the lamentable in a new subject, and how admirably some, more than others, become their
distresses.

But to return to thy objections--Thou wilt perhaps tell me, in the names of thy brethren, as
well as in thy own name, that, among all the objects of your respective attempts, there was
not one of the rank and merit of my charming Miss Harlowe.

But let me ask, Has it not been a constant maxim with us, that the greater the merit on the
woman's side, the nobler the victory on the man's?  And as to rank, sense of honour, sense
of shame, pride of family, may make rifled rank get up, and shake itself to rights: and if
any thing come of it, such a one may suffer only in her pride, by being obliged to take up
with a second-rate match instead of a first; and, as it may fall out, be the happier, as well
as the more useful, for the misadventure; since (taken off of her public gaddings, and domesticated
by her disgrace) she will have reason to think herself obliged to the man who has saved her
from further reproach; while her fortune and alliance will lay an obligation upon him; and
her past fall, if she have prudence and consciousness, will be his present and future security.

But a poor girl [such a one as my Rosebud for instance] having no recalls from education; being
driven out of every family that pretends to reputation; persecuted most perhaps by such as
have only kept their secret better; and having no refuge to fly to--the common, the stews,
the street, is the fate of such a poor wretch; penury, want, and disease, her sure attendants;
and an untimely end perhaps closes the miserable scene.

And will you not now all join to say, that it is more manly to attach a lion than a sheep?--Thou
knowest, that I always illustrated my eagleship, by aiming at the noblest quarries; and by
disdaining to make a stoop at wrens, phyl-tits,* and wag-tails.

* Phyl-tits, q. d. Phyllis-tits, in opposition to Tom-tits.  It needs not now be observed,
that Mr. Lovelace, in this wanton gaiety of his heart, often takes liberties of coining words
and phrases in his letters to this his familiar friend.  See his ludicrous reason for it in
Vol. III. Letter XXV. Paragr. antepenult.

The worst respecting myself, in the case before me, is that my triumph, when completed, will
be so glorious a one, that I shall never be able to keep up to it.  All my future attempts
must be poor to this. I shall be as unhappy, after a while, from my reflections upon this conquest,
as Don Juan of Austria was in his, on the renowned victory of Lepanto, when he found that none
of future achievements could keep pace with his early glory.

I am sensible that my pleas and my reasoning may be easily answered, and perhaps justly censured;
But by whom censured?  Not by any of the confraternity, whose constant course of life, even
long before I became your general, to this hour, has justified what ye now in a fit of squeamishness,
and through envy, condemn.  Having, therefore, vindicated myself and my intentions to YOU,
that is all I am at present concerned for.

Be convinced, then, that I (according to our principles) am right, thou wrong; or, at least,
be silent.  But I command thee to be convinced.  And in thy next be sure to tell me that thou art.

LETTER XVIII

MR. BELFORD, TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ. EDGEWARE, THURSDAY, MAY 4.

I know that thou art so abandoned a man, that to give thee the best reasons in the world against
what thou hast once resolved upon will be but acting the madman whom once we saw trying to
buffet down a hurricane with his hat. I hope, however, that the lady's merit will still avail
her with thee.  But, if thou persistest; if thou wilt avenge thyself on this sweet lamb which
thou hast singled out from a flock thou hatest, for the faults of the dogs who kept it: if
thou art not to be moved by beauty, by learning, by prudence, by innocence, all shining out
in one charming object; but she must fall, fall by the man whom she has chosen for her protector;
I would not for a thousand worlds have thy crime to answer for.

Upon my faith, Lovelace, the subject sticks with me, notwithstanding I find I have no the honour
of the lady's good opinion.  And the more, when I reflect upon her father's brutal curse, and
the villainous hard- heartedness of all her family.  But, nevertheless, I should be desirous
to know (if thou wilt proceed) by what gradations, arts, and contrivances thou effectest thy
ingrateful purpose.  And, O Lovelace, I conjure thee, if thou art a man, let not the specious
devils thou has brought her among be suffered to triumph over her; yield to fair seductions,
if I may so express myself! if thou canst raise a weakness in her by love, or by arts not inhuman;
I shall the less pity her: and shall then conclude, that there is not a woman in the world
who can resist a bold and resolute lover.

A messenger is just now arrived from my uncle.  The mortification, it seems, is got to his
knee; and the surgeons declare that he cannot live many days.  He therefore sends for me directly,
with these shocking words, that I will come and close his eyes.  My servant or his must of
necessity be in town every day on his case, or other affairs; and one of them shall regularly
attend you for any letter or commands. It will be charity to write to me as often as you can.
For although I am likely to be a considerable gainer by the poor man's death, yet I cannot
say that I at all love these scenes of death and the doctor so near me.  The doctor and death
I should have said; for that is the natural order, and generally speaking, the one is but the
harbinger to the other.

If, therefore, you decline to oblige me, I shall think you are displeased with my freedom.
But let me tell you, at the same, that no man has a right to be displeased at freedoms taken
with him for faults he is not ashamed to be guilty of.

J. BELFORD.

LETTER XIX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE

I thank you and Mr. Hickman for his letter, sent me with such kind expedition; and proceed
to obey my dear menacing tyranness.

[She then gives the particulars of what passed between herself and Mr.
   Lovelace on Tuesday morning, in relation to his four friends, and to
   Miss Partington, pretty much to the same effect as in Mr. Lovelace's
   Letter, No. XIII.  And then proceeds:]

He is constantly accusing me of over-scrupulousness.  He says, 'I am always out of humour with
him: that I could not have behaved more reservedly to Mr. Solmes: and that it is contrary to
all his hopes and notions, that he should not, in so long a time, find himself able to inspire
the person, whom he hoped so soon to have the honour to call his, with the least distinguishing
tenderness for him before-hand.'

Silly and partial encroacher! not to know to what to attribute the reserve I am forced to treat
him with!  But his pride has eaten up his prudence.  It is indeed a dirty low pride, that has
swallowed up the true pride which should have set him above the vanity that has overrun him.

Yet he pretends that he has no pride but in obliging me: and is always talking of his reverence
and humility, and such sort of stuff: but of this I am sure that he has, as I observed the
first time I saw him,* too much regard to his own person, greatly to value that of his wife,
marry he whom he will: and I must be blind, if I did not see that he is exceedingly vain of
his external advantages, and of that address, which, if it has any merit in it to an outward
eye, is perhaps owing more to his confidence that [sic] to any thing else.

* See Vol. I. Letter III.

Have you not beheld the man, when I was your happy guest, as he walked to his chariot, looking
about him, as if to observe what eyes his specious person and air had attracted?

But indeed we had some homely coxcombs as proud as if they had persons to be proud of; at the
same time that it was apparent, that the pains they took about themselves but the more exposed
their defects.

The man who is fond of being thought more or better than he is, as I have often observed, but
provokes a scrutiny into his pretensions; and that generally produces contempt.  For pride,
as I believe I have heretofore said, is an infallible sign of weakness; of something wrong
in the head or in both.  He that exalts himself insults his neighbour; who is provoked to question
in him even that merit, which, were he modest, would perhaps be allowed to be his due.

You will say that I am very grave: and so I am.  Mr. Lovelace is extremely sunk in my opinion
since Monday night: nor see I before me any thing that can afford me a pleasing hope.  For
what, with a mind so unequal as his, can be my best hope?

I think I mentioned to you, in my former, that my clothes were brought me.  You fluttered me
so, that I am not sure I did.  But I know I designed to mention that they were.  They were
brought me on Thursday; but neither my few guineas with them, nor any of my books, except a
Drexelius on Eternity, the good old Practice of Piety, and a Francis Spira.  My brother's wit,
I suppose.  He thinks he does well to point out death and despair to me.  I wish for the one,
and every now-and-then am on the brink of the other.

You will the less wonder at my being so very solemn, when, added to the above, and to my uncertain
situation, I tell you, that they have sent me with these books a letter form my cousin Morden.
It has set my heart against Mr. Lovelace.  Against myself too.  I send it enclosed.  If you
please, my dear, you may read it here:

COL. MORDEN, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE

Florence, April 13.

I am extremely concerned to hear of a difference betwixt the rest of a family so near and dear
to me, and you still dearer to than any of the rest.

My cousin James has acquainted me with the offers you have had, and with your refusals.  I
wonder not at either.  Such charming promises at so early an age as when I left England; and
those promises, as I have often heard, so greatly exceeded, as well in your person as mind;
how much must you be admired! how few must there be worthy of you!

Your parents, the most indulgent in the world, to a child the most deserving, have given way
it seems to your refusal of several gentlemen. They have contented themselves at last to name
one with earnestness to you, because of the address of another whom they cannot approve.

They had not reason, it seems, from your behaviour, to think you greatly averse: so they proceeded:
perhaps too hastily for a delicacy like your's.  But when all was fixed on their parts, and
most extraordinary terms concluded in your favour; terms, which abundantly show the gentleman's
just value for you; you flew off with a warmth and vehemence little suited to that sweetness
which gave grace to all your actions.

I know very little of either of the gentlemen: but of Mr. Lovelace I know more than of Mr.
Solmes.  I wish I could say more to his advantage than I can.  As to every qualification but
one, your brother owns there is no comparison.  But that one outweighs all the rest together.
It cannot be thought that Miss Clarissa Harlowe will dispense with MORALS in a husband.

What, my dearest cousin, shall I plead first to you on this occasion? Your duty, your interest,
your temporal and your eternal welfare, do, and may all, depend upon this single point, the
morality of a husband.  A woman who hath a wicked husband may find it difficult to be good,
and out of her power to do good; and is therefore in a worse situation than the man can be
in, who hath a bad wife.  You preserve all your religious regards, I understand.  I wonder
not that you do.  I should have wondered had you not.  But what can you promise youself, as
to perseverance in them, with an immoral husband?

If your parents and you differ in sentiment on this important occasion, let me ask you, my
dear cousin, who ought to give way?  I own to you, that I should have thought there could not
any where have been a more suitable match for you than Mr. Lovelace, had he been a moral man.
I should have very little to say against a man, of whose actions I am not to set up myself
as a judge, did he not address my cousin.  But, on this occasion, let me tell you, my dear
Clarissa, that Mr. Lovelace cannot possibly deserve you.  He may reform, you'll say: but he
may not.  Habit is not soon or easily shaken off.  Libertines, who are libertines in defiance
of talents, of superior lights, of conviction, hardly ever reform but by miracle, or by incapacity.
Well do I know mine own sex. Well am I able to judge of the probability of the reformation
of a licentious young man, who has not been fastened upon by sickness, by affliction, by calamity:
who has a prosperous run of fortune before him: his spirits high: his will uncontroulable:
the company he keeps, perhaps such as himself, confirming him in all his courses, assisting
him in all his enterprises.

As to the other gentleman, suppose, my dear cousin, you do not like him at present, it is far
from being unlikely that you will hereafter: perhaps the more for not liking him now.  He can
hardly sink lower in your opinion: he may rise.  Very seldom is it that high expectations are
so much as tolerably answered.  How indeed can they, when a fine and extensive imagination
carries its expectation infinitely beyond reality, in the highest of our sublunary enjoyments?
A woman adorned with such an imagination sees no defect in a favoured object, (the less, if
she be not conscious of any wilful fault in herself,) till it is too late to rectify the mistakes
occasioned by her generous credulity.

But suppose a person of your talents were to marry a man of inferior talents; Who, in this
case, can be so happy in herself as Miss Clarissa Harlowe?  What delight do you take in doing
good!  How happily do you devote the several portions of the day to your own improvement, and
to the advantage of all that move within your sphere!--And then, such is your taste, such are
your acquirements in the politer studies, and in the politer amusements; such your excellence
in all the different parts of economy fit for a young lady's inspection and practice, that
your friends would wish you to be taken off as little as possible by regards that may be called
merely personal.

But as to what may be the consequence respecting yourself, respecting a young lady of your
talents, from the preference you are suspected to give to a libertine, I would have you, my
dear cousin, consider what that may be.  A mind so pure, to mingle with a mind impure!  And
will not such a man as this engross all your solitudes?  Will he not perpetually fill you with
anxieties for him and for yourself?--The divine and civil powers defied, and their sanctions
broken through by him, on every not merely accidental but meditated occasion.  To be agreeable
to him, and to hope to preserve an interest in his affections, you must probably be obliged
to abandon all your own laudable pursuits.  You must enter into his pleasures and distastes.
You must give up your virtuous companions for his profligate ones--perhaps be forsaken by your's,
because of the scandal he daily gives.  Can you hope, cousin, with such a man as this to be
long  so good as you now are?  If not, consider which of your present laudable delights you
would choose to give up! which of his culpable ones to follow him in!  How could you brook
to go backward, instead of forward, in those duties which you now so exemplarily perform? and
how do you know, if you once give way, where you shall be suffered, where you shall be able,
to stop?

Your brother acknowledges that Mr. Solmes is not near so agreeable in person as Mr. Lovelace.
But what is person with such a lady as I have the honour to be now writing to?  He owns likewise
that he has not the address of Mr. Lovelace: but what a mere personal advantage is a plausible
address, without morals?  A woman had better take a husband whose manners she were to fashion,
than to find them ready-fashioned to her hand, at the price of her morality; a price that is
often paid for travelling accomplishments.  O my dear cousin, were you but with us here at
Florence, or at Rome, or at Paris, (where also I resided for many months,) to see the gentlemen
whose supposed rough English manners at setting out are to be polished, and what their improvement
are in their return through the same places, you would infinitely prefer the man in his first
stage to the same man in his last.  You find the difference on their return--a fondness for
foreign fashions, an attachment to foreign vices, a supercilious contempt of his own country
and countrymen; (himself more despicable than the most despicable of those he despises;) these,
with an unblushing effrontery, are too generally the attainments that concur to finish the
travelled gentleman!

Mr. Lovelace, I know, deserves to have an exception made in his favour; for he really is a
man of parts and learning: he was esteemed so both here and at Rome; and a fine person, and
a generous turn of mind, gave him great advantages.  But you need not be told, that a libertine
of weak parts is able to do.  And this I will tell you further, that it was Mr. Lovelace's
own fault that he was not still more respected than he was among the literati here.  There
were, in short, some liberties in which he indulged himself, that endangered his person and
his liberty; and made the best and most worthy of those who honoured him with their notice
give him up, and his stay both at Florence and at Rome shorter than he designed.

This is all I choose to say of Mr. Lovelace.  I had much rather have had reason to give him
a quite contrary character.  But as to rakes or libertines in general, I, who know them well,
must be allowed, because of the mischiefs they have always in their hearts, and too often in
their power, to do your sex, to add still a few more words upon this topic.

A libertine, my dear cousin, a plotting, an intriguing libertine, must be generally remorseless--unjust
he must always be.  The noble rule of doing to others what he would have done to himself is
the first rule he breaks; and every day he breaks it; the oftener, the greater his triumph.
He has great contempt for your sex.  He believes no woman chaste, because he is a profligate.
Every woman who favours him confirms him in his wicked incredulity.  He is always plotting
to extend the mischiefs he delights in.  If a woman loves such a man, how can she bear the
thought of dividing her interest in his affections with half the town, and that perhaps the
dregs of it?  Then so sensual!--How will a young lady of your delicacy bear with so sensual
a man? a man who makes a jest of his vows? and who perhaps will break your spirit by the most
unmanly insults.  To be a libertine, is to continue to be every thing vile and inhuman. Prayers,
tears, and the most abject submission, are but fuel to his pride: wagering perhaps with lewd
companions, and, not improbably, with lewder women, upon instances which he boast of to them
of your patient sufferings, and broken spirit, and bringing them home to witness both.

I write what I know has been.

I mention not fortunes squandered, estates mortgaged or sold, and posterity robbed--nor yet
a multitude of other evils, too gross, too shocking, to be mentioned to a person of your delicacy.

All these, my dear cousin, to be shunned, all the evils I have named to be avoided; the power
of doing all the good you have been accustomed to, preserved, nay, increased, by the separate
provision that will be made for you: your charming diversions, and exemplary employments, all
maintained; and every good habit perpetuated: and all by one sacrifice, the fading pleasure
of the eye! who would not, (since every thing is not to be met with in one man, who would not,)
to preserve so many essentials, give up to light, so unpermanent a pleasure!

Weigh all these things, which I might insist upon to more advantage, did I think it needful
to one of your prudence--weigh them well, my beloved cousin; and if it be not the will of your
parents that you should continue single, resolve to oblige them; and let it not be said that
the powers of fancy shall (as in many others of your sex) be too hard for your duty and your
prudence.  The less agreeable the man, the more obliging the compliance.  Remember, that he
is a sober man--a man who has reputation to lose, and whose reputation therefore is a security
for his good behaviour to you.

You have an opportunity offered you to give the highest instance that can be given of filial
duty.  Embrace it.  It is worthy of you.  It is expected from you; however, for your inclination-sake,
we may be sorry that you are called upon to give it.  Let it be said that you have been able
to lay an obligation upon your parents, (a proud word, my cousin!) which you could not do,
were it not laid against your inclination!--upon parents who have laid a thousand upon you:
who are set upon this point: who will not give it up: who have given up many points to you,
even of this very nature: and in their turn, for the sake of their own authority, as well as
judgment, expect to be obliged.

I hope I shall soon, in person, congratulate you upon this your meritorious compliance.  To
settle and give up my trusteeship is one of the principal motives of my leaving these parts.
I shall be glad to settle it to every one's satisfaction; to yours particularly.

If on my arrival I find a happy union, as formerly, reign in a family so dear to me, it will
be an unspeakable pleasure to me; and I shall perhaps so dispose my affairs, as to be near
you for ever.

I have written a very long letter, and will add no more, than that I am, with the greatest
respect, my dearest cousin,

Your most affectionate and faithful servant, WM. MORDEN.

***

I will suppose, my dear Miss Howe, that you have read my cousin's letter. It is now in vain
to wish it had come sooner.  But if it had, I might perhaps have been so rash as to give Mr.
Lovelace the fatal meeting, as I little thought of going away with him.

But I should hardly have given him the expectation of so doing, previous to the meeting, which
made him come prepared; and the revocation of which he so artfully made ineffectual.

Persecuted as I was, and little expecting so much condescension, as my aunt, to my great mortification,
has told me (and you confirm) I should have met with, it is, however, hard to say what I should
or should not have done as to meeting him, had it come in time: but this effect I verily believe
it would have had--to have made me insist with all my might on going over, out of all their
ways, to the kind writer of the instructive letter, and on making a father (a protector, as
well as a friend) of a kinsman, who is one of my trustees.  This, circumstanced as I was, would
have been a natural, at least an unexceptionable protection! --But I was to be unhappy! and
how it cuts me to the heart to think, that I can already subscribe to my cousin's character
of a libertine, so well drawn in the letter which I suppose you now to have read!

That a man of a character which ever was my abhorrence should fall to my lot!--But, depending
on my own strength; having no reason to apprehend danger from headstrong and disgraceful impulses;
I too little perhaps cast up my eyes to the Supreme Director: in whom, mistrusting myself,
I ought to have placed my whole confidence--and the more, when I saw myself so perserveringly
addressed by a man of this character.

Inexperience and presumption, with the help of a brother and sister who have low ends to answer
in my disgrace, have been my ruin!--A hard word, my dear! but I repeat it upon deliberation:
since, let the best happen which now can happen, my reputation is destroyed; a rake is my portion:
and what that portion is my cousin Morden's letter has acquainted you.

Pray keep it by you till called for.  I saw it not myself (having not the heart to inspect
my trunks) till this morning.  I would not for the world this man should see it; because it
might occasion mischief between the most violent spirit, and the most settled brave one in
the world, as my cousin's is said to be.

This letter was enclosed (opened) in a blank cover.  Scorn and detest me as they will, I wonder
that one line was not sent with it--were it but to have more particularly pointed the design
of it, in the same generous spirit that sent me the spira.

The sealing of the cover was with black wax.  I hope there is no new occasion in the family
to give reason for black wax.  But if there were, it would, to be sure, have been mentioned,
and laid at my door--perhaps too justly!

I had begun a letter to my cousin; but laid it by, because of the uncertainty of my situation,
and expecting every day for several days past to be at a greater certainty.  You bid me write
to him some time ago, you know.  Then it was I began it: for I have great pleasure in obeying
you in all I may.  So I ought to have; for you are the only friend left me.  And, moreover,
you generally honour me with your own observance of the advice I take the liberty to offer
you: for I pretend to say, I give better advice than I have taken.  And so I had need.  For,
I know not how it comes about, but I am, in my own opinion, a poor lost creature: and yet cannot
charge myself with one criminal or faulty inclination.  Do you know, my dear, how this can be?

Yet I can tell you how, I believe--one devious step at setting out!-- that must be it:--which
pursued, has led me so far out of my path, that I am in a wilderness of doubt and error; and
never, never, shall find my way out of it: for, although but one pace awry at first, it has
led me hundreds and hundreds of miles out of my path: and the poor estray has not one kind
friend, nor has met with one direct passenger, to help her to recover it.

But I, presumptuous creature! must rely so much upon my own knowledge of the right path!--little
apprehending that an ignus fatuus with its false fires (and ye I had heard enough of such)
would arise to mislead me!  And now, in the midst of fens and quagmires, it plays around me,
and around me, throwing me back again, whenever I think myself in the right track. But there
is one common point, in which all shall meet, err widely as they may.  In that I shall be laid
quietly down at last: and then will all my calamities be at an end.

But how I stray again; stray from my intention!  I would only have said, that I had begun a
letter to my cousin Morden some time ago: but that now I can never end it.  You will believe
I cannot: for how shall I tell him that all his compliments are misbestowed? that all his advice
is thrown away? all his warnings vain? and that even my highest expectation is to be the wife
of that free-liver, whom he so pathetically warns me to shun?

Let me own, however, have your prayers joined with my own, (my fate depending, as it seems,
upon the lips of such a man) 'that, whatever shall be my destiny, that dreadful part of my
father's malediction, that I may be punished by the man in whom he supposes I put my confidence,
may not take place! that this for Mr. Lovelace's own sake, and for the sake of human nature,
may not be! or, if it be necessary, in support of the parental authority, that I should be
punished by him, that it may not be by his premeditated or wilful baseness; but that I may
be able to acquit his intention, if not his action!'  Otherwise, my fault will appear to be
doubled in the eye of the event-judging world.  And yet, methinks, I would be glad that the
unkindness of my father and uncles, whose hearts have already been too much wounded by my error,
may be justified in every article, excepting in this heavy curse: and that my father will be
pleased to withdraw that before it be generally known: at least the most dreadful part of it
which regards futurity!

I must lay down my pen.  I must brood over these reflections.  Once more, before I close my
cousin's letter, I will peruse it.  And then I shall have it by heart.

LETTER XX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SUNDAY NIGHT, MAY 7.

When you reflect upon my unhappy situation, which is attended with so many indelicate and even
shocking circumstances, some of which my pride will not let me think of with patience; all
aggravated by the contents of my cousin's affecting letter; you will not wonder that the vapourishness
which has laid hold of my heart should rise to my pen.  And yet it would be more kind, more
friendly in me, to conceal from you, who take such a generous interest in my concerns, that
worst part of my griefs, which communication and complaint cannot relieve.

But to whom can I unbosom myself but to you: when the man who ought to be my protector, as
he has brought upon me all my distresses, adds to my apprehensions; when I have not even a
servant on whose fidelity I can rely, or to whom I can break my griefs as they arise; and when
his bountiful temper and gay heart attach every one to him; and I am but a cipher, to give
him significance, and myself pain!--These griefs, therefore, do what I can, will sometimes
burst into tears; and these mingling with my ink, will blot my paper.  And I know you will
not grudge me the temporary relief.

But I shall go on in the strain I left off with in my last, when I intended rather to apologize
for my melancholy.  But let what I have above written, once for all, be my apology.  My misfortunes
have given you a call to discharge the noblest offices of the friendship we have vowed to each
other, in advice and consolation; and it would be an injury to it, and to you, to suppose it
needed even that call.

[She then tells Miss Howe, that now her clothes are come, Mr. Lovelace is
   continually teasing her to go abroad with him in a coach, attended by
   whom she pleases of her own sex, either for the air, or to the public
   diversions.

She gives the particulars of a conversation that has passed between them
   on that subject, and his several proposals.  But takes notice, that he
   says not the least word of the solemnity which he so much pressed for
   before they came to town; and which, as she observes, was necessary to
   give propriety to his proposals.]

Now, my dear, she says, I cannot bear the life I live.  I would be glad at my heart to be out
of his reach.  If I were, he should soon find the difference.  If I must be humbled, it had
better be by those to whom I owe duty, than by him.  My aunt writes in her letter,* that SHE
dare not propose any thing in my favour.  You tell me, that upon inquiry, you find,* that,
had I not been unhappily seduced away, a change of measures was actually resolved upon; and
that my mother, particularly, was determined to exert herself for the restoration of the family
peace; and, in order to succeed the better, had thoughts of trying to engage my uncle Harlowe
in her party.

* See Vol. III. Letter LII. ** Ibid. Letter VIII.

Let me build on these foundations.  I can but try, my dear.  It is my duty to try all probably
methods to restore the poor outcast to favour. And who knows but that once indulgent uncle,
who has very great weight in the family, may be induced to interpose in my behalf?  I will
give up all right and title to my grandfather's devises and bequests, with all my heart and
soul, to whom they please, in order to make my proposal palatable to my brother.  And that
my surrender may be effectual, I will engage never to marry.

What think you, my dear, of this expedient?  Surely, they cannot resolve to renounce me for
ever.  If they look with impartial eyes upon what has happened, they will have something to
blame themselves for, as well as me.

I presume, that you will be of opinion that this expedient is worth trying.  But here is my
difficulty: If I should write, my hard-hearted brother has so strongly confederated them all
against me, that my letter would be handed about from one to another, till he had hardened
every one to refuse my request; whereas could my uncle be engaged to espouse my cause, as from
himself, I should have some hope, as I presume to think he would soon have my mother and my
aunt of his party.

What, therefore, I am thinking of, is this--'Suppose Mr. Hickman, whose good character has
gained him every body's respect, should put himself in my uncle Harlowe's way?  And (as if
from your knowledge of the state of things between Mr. Lovelace and me) assure him not only
of the above particulars, but that I am under no obligations that shall hinder me from taking
his directions?'

I submit the whole to your consideration, whether to pursue it at all, or in what manner. 
But if it be pursued, and if my uncle refuses to interest himself in my favour upon Mr. Hickman's
application as from you, (for so, for obvious reasons, it must be put,) I can then have no
hope; and my next step, in the mind I am in, shall be to throw myself into the protection of
the ladies of his family.

It were an impiety to adopt the following lines, because it would be throwing upon the decrees
of Providence a fault too much my own.  But often do I revolve them, for the sake of the general
similitude which they bear to my unhappy, yet undersigned error.

      To you, great gods! I make my last appeal:
      Or clear my virtue, or my crimes reveal.
      If wand'ring in the maze of life I run,
      And backward tread the steps I sought to shun,
      Impute my error to your own decree:
      My FEET are guilty: but my HEART is free.

[The Lady dates again on Monday, to let Miss Howe know, that Mr.
   Lovelace, on observing her uneasiness, had introduced to her Mr.
   Mennell, Mrs. Fretchville's kinsman, who managed all her affairs.  She
   calls him a young officer of sense and politeness, who gave her an
   account of the house and furniture, to the same effect that Mr.
   Lovelace had done before;* as also of the melancholy way Mrs.
   Fretchville is in.

* See Letter IV. of this volume.

She tells Miss Howe how extremely urgent Mr. Lovelace was with the
   gentleman, to get his spouse (as he now always calls her before
   company) a sight of the house: and that Mr. Mennell undertook that
   very afternoon to show her all of it, except the apartment Mrs.
   Fretchville should be in when she went.  But that she chose not to
   take another step till she knew how she approved of her scheme to have
   her uncle sounded, and with what success, if tried, it would be
   attended.

Mr. Lovelace, in his humourous way, gives his friend an account of the
   Lady's peevishness and dejection, on receiving a letter with her
   clothes.  He regrets that he has lost her confidence; which he
   attributes to his bringing her into the company of his four
   companions.  Yet he thinks he must excuse them, and censure her for
   over-niceness; for that he never saw men behave better, at least not
   them.

Mentioning his introducing Mr. Mennell to her,]

Now, Jack, says he, was it not very kind of Mr. Mennell [Captain Mennell I sometimes called
him; for among the military there is no such officer, thou knowest, as a lieutenant, or an
ensign--was it not very kind in him] to come along with me so readily as he did, to satisfy
my beloved about the vapourish lady and the house?

But who is Capt. Mennell? methinks thou askest: I never heard of such a man as Captain Mennell.

Very likely.  But knowest thou not young Newcomb, honest Doleman's newphew?

O-ho!  Is it he?

It is.  And I have changed his name by virtue of my own single authority. Knowest thou not,
that I am a great name-father?  Preferment I bestow, both military and civil.  I give estates,
and take them away at my pleasure. Agregóse to this, a Franciscan monk named Fray Bernardino Gallegos, who
at that time was the chaplain on the plantations of D. Juan de Dios Rodriguez, overlapping their
malicious plan, said he had heard that the Indians were ready to
invade Challapata to Oruro, and the main reason that impelled, was knowing
that every day is to egercicio therefore considered appropriate to be
suspended for without more diligence that is sosegarian the minds of those
rebels, because its only nacia resentment of those provisions. The
mayor, and was not given assent to the notices that religious, or
because they penetrate inside, it did not alter steps, that starts
and continuing care were born: for, resentful of this, did not cease
to spread onwards dire news, which threatened at moments the insult
offered by the neighboring Indians.

In this conflict it was doubtful that the media ought to be elected: there were no weapons
or ammunition; hacíanse public and secret councils, nothing was resolved because of lack of money
in the box of their own, or to speak more properly, not to be such a case, for it was many years had
taken possession of their fund D. Jacinto Rodriguez. Nor could go to the royal treasury, because
he resisted the officers, saying no optional assist them to extract any amount, without an express order
of superiority, and by last resort, it was thought that the neighbors
contribute with a donation, nor took effect, the extreme poverty in
which they were.

In these troubles manifested the zeal of the treasurer D. Salvador
Parrilla, giving $ 2,000 cash for their own interests, that militias
were quartered, and munitions of war prevented the meantime it was part
of the audience, to deliberate what they had fit. This amount was called
to the preparations, they began to pay 300 men were named captains
and other officers, to the service: D. Manuel Serrano, formed a company
of the most infamous mob of people, and appointed his lieutenant Don
Nicolas de Herrera, brooding genius, who later became one of the most
conspicuous in this tragic scene.

And the troops were quartered, were raised by the many little dissensions subordination of the
soldiers, the officials in any law for the supply of the lent above, and other reasons, which originated,
but by the disposition of the spirits, which, those founded complaints. On the 9th, at ten
o'clock at night, some soldiers left the barracks the company of Serrano, screaming help others, and
asked the cause, said Sebastian Disbursing aloud: - "Friends, countrymen and peers, be assured
that you try the most treacherous treachery against us by the escutcheons: comunicárseme this
news just for my daughter; on any occasion we can best provide clear
evidence of our love of country, but in this: not at all cherish our
lives, willingly sacrifiquémoslas in defense of freedom, making all
the humility and performance, we have had with the Spanish Europeans,
anger and rage, and get it over with this damn race.

"They immediately spread throughout the town this reasoning, and the motion they were militia companies,
not neglecting D. Nicolas Herrera in stoking the fire, telling everywhere
with more vivid colors, which could suggest their malicious intent, the conspiracy
of the Europeans.

Disbursing Sebastian servant had been many years in the mines of both Rodriguez,
and now that he attended them in the evenings with D. Jacinto, where
this was coming down drunk, bad that commonly suffered. Among other productions
of drunkenness, came up with the nonsense that the mayor wanted him hanged,
together with his brothers, Don Manuel Herrera and other neighbors. The
heat from the beer, which had altered to disbursing him facilitate
the murder after egecutaron, treating it with D. Nicolas de Herrera, sugeto
thief often processed by public and highwayman. In that no one was satisfied
that many Europeans were wealthy, but he and some of his wicked companions
were deposited many bars and bags of silver coin in face D. José
Endeiza, whom he considered more than 50,000 pesos effective.

As this individual was so kind, went to the table many of their friends too rich, and agreed that
both were provided with travel to Potosi, came together with all his wealth to live in the house
where he was staying. The flow dam so large was the main origin of this unfortunate
event.

D. Nicolas Herrera, who wanted more than all egecutar came for plunder, published everywhere Payer's
reasoning, and continuing its proceedings, entered the house of D.
Casimiro Delgado, who at that time was playing with D. Manuel Amezaga,
Challacollo cure, and Fray Antonio Lazo, the Order of San Agustin.

They were all thrown to the novelty, and decided to go to warn the militia that threatened misfortune:
determination, indeed, is unusual in those sugetos, and has many overtones of seditious, because
without reflecting on the consequences went to the barracks, called the Captain D. Bartolomè Menacho
and to others, and gave them news of what they knew, making them the
prevention of to beware.

With this and the voice of treason on the part of Europeans that Herrera had
   spread throughout the village, troops came in floods headquarters, mothers,
   wives and sisters of those who were quartered: some had guns to defend
   themselves and others with the most tender voices, demanding with
   tears to abandon that site. He added, soldiers, incited by Payer,
   were persuaded it was true the plot: some claimed that the mayor had prevented
   a mine to blow them up suddenly, others shouted that there was no reason
   to doubt, because he had Arrimadas ladders to storm the yard suddenly
   from home.

All was confusion, disorder and confusion, without the slightest
foundation, because the malice of the seductive invented these and other
spices to stir the spirits seditious. This line spent the night in constant
terror, then it cleared on the 10th, abandoned the Headquarters: some went
to their houses, and others collected by Paymaster, were presented
to D. Jacinto Rodriguez, protesting that his Lieutenant Colonel and
should be reported as premeditated against them, they were ready to
obey blindly, thus giving a misleading diagnostic test of subordination
that had: who, hearing the complaints, he said not to return to headquarters,
and standing with some confidence, secretly warned them rioted that
night and warned the manner in which he had to practice.

He had left days before the town of Fray Bernardino Challapata Gallegos, the Order of St. Francisco,
under the pretext of liberating some soldiers who took D. Manuel de la Bodega, who were hiding
in the priest's house, but his true intention was to call the Indians for that day. In the
same distributed D. Jacinto to his black, and some of his servants on the farms and surrounding towns, for
with the help of these, bending forces and accomplish its end, mounted
his horse, went to the Cerro de las Minas, where together with all
the Indians , mulattos and mestizos, who worked in them and gave them
orders that come down just for the Cerro de Conchopata to the town
after nightfall. egecutó Everything is as it was prevented, starting
with the noise of the peons mining in that place, at the appointed
time.

To ensure better premeditated action, walking the streets and squares, a company official Menacho,
called D. José Asurdui, publishing was certain magistrate and the treachery of the Europeans, so
brazen, that compelled one to rebuke, saying: "Only a man of little understanding could utter
this nonsense: you are persuaded that the magistrate, accompanied only 30 to 40 Europeans, are
deemed capable of resisting and killing more than 5,000 men who have the town, this was the same
as an ant trying to meet a lion. "But the principles were different from that riot of served
no good reason to restrain these, but rather were increased by the groups at the corners of the streets
and public square, growing care, to have found a piece of letter of Fray
Bernardino Gallego, who warned his brother, Fray Feliciano that inevitably
the night of 10 would overrun the town by the Indians Challapata,
but that did not have care, that the end was taking life to the mayor
and royal officials.

These Indians did not appear that night and learned the truth, many days after, knew did not
think to come by then, and it was just a ruse to increase the fear and confusion. By 4 pm
he ordered the mayor to play call for the militia came together, in fact obeyed, still very few people
it took, but the fact of not wanting to enter the barracks, and if kept
divided into pieces by the corners of the square, talking to each of the alleged
treason, and what they had to practice, and disbursing neglecting
his commission, recalled the events of Jose Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, supporting
their conduct against the Sovereign, who suffered the abuse by the
bad government of his ministers, the unbearable breasts, that because
of the war with the British, imposed on the peoples, and other reasons
to conduct effective encouragement to the end that had been proposed.'s
mayor, tried to reduce them, and with gently, and with threats, but
nothing was enough, and could only get offered, would remain in the
square, hoping the Indians who threatened to invade the town that
night and that no means remain employed, is invited to sleep with
them, and when checking the plot of the Europeans, first sacrifice
their lives rather than allow any of the soldiers perished.

But as missing and reason, and beginning to discover his evil intention, far from producing
the good effects which he expected This submissive offer, which only served to more insolence.
Rogábales humbly, and tried to dissuade them of the alleged complaints with the Europeans:
he said to them that everything was false and fabricated by the malice
of those who persuaded them otherwise, but more angry with these means
of gently began to handle his deep, testing mode with which they had
to use them.

These are the causes from which it originated so cruel rebellion against the majesty and the
Europeans, but add another which, in my view is the main foundation
of this bloody event. For 10 years, who undergoes a total backlog of work
of mine, so that at present there was no one to carry a formal job,
nor his master could pay what is necessary for its preservation and rotating,
being the only thing that supported the neighborhood: total decline
as miners began to their constitution so pitiful that those who were
told by major, and other time possessed flow bounds, as were Rodriguez,
Herrera, Galleguillos and others were in a state of destitution, discovered
in many thousands, and the King, as with other individuals, without
being able to pay, or follow the work of its work, for lack of means.

        The Europeans, who were the
        only enablers, no longer
      wanted to supply them any money, and desperate find no remedy for
succor, and chancel their debts, engineered this rebellion, which
will be dubious at times to come, by all deaths, theft, sacrilege,
desecration and other cruelties egecutaron.

Forced militants, the many prayers and inducements that were used by several sugetos, entered the barracks,
after the prayer of that day, February 10, not to stay there as other nights, but only to deceive
their masters with this apparent obedience, and with a view that they were
given the loans that they had assigned. While they were paid, were heard in
the streets and squares, many voices and screams of boys and other
rabble, who firing stones with slingshots, put enough people in consternation.
A question this time played with the bell of the matrix, as had been prevented,
that all came together for the post said.

Practicáronlo well, but could not find out who had touched, or with that
order, forcing the mayor should command a bet company in every corner
of the square, whether it has some unexpected assault. When you were
taking these and other provisions to guard, he heard the sound of various
horns, which one extreme to another or correspond to confirm the entry of Indians
as it was decided that some saliesen for recognition by who returned
with the news that no one was in that neighborhood, and cracked the case,
found that those who blew the trumpets, were two black D. Jacinto
Rodriguez, D. Nicolas de Herrera, Quevedo and Isidore, that together
with this news for Europeans, they were easier to get a desperate
attempt.

Insured these, which had nothing to fear from the Indians, they relaxed somewhat, and went to
dinner together at Endeiza house.

But
the first dish that was put on the table, entered D. José Cayetano de Casas, shedding much blood,
a dangerous lunge, which the natives had given him for having endured that entered through the
corner of the matrix, which was in keeping with his company, and
while referring their misfortune and was assured some to the conspiracy
of the natives against them, they heard from the plaza flashed thousands
of stones and balconies towards the house, and determined to defend
to the last extremity, took the firearms they had, to shoot rioters,
and resist its insult but detúvolos the same owner, D. José de Endeiza,
sugeto of exemplary life, who know it was inevitable death of all,
I made the following argument, full of Christian zeal which animated
him.

"Come, friends and colleagues, there is no remedy, we all die, as it has been verified be the
sedition against us: we have more crime than being European and having collected
our flow, to secure them, sight of the natives. comply at all the
will of God, we do not lack the confidence of his mercy, and it hopefully
the forgiveness of our sins: and therefore we shall give account to the
court as fair, do not do no murder, or relocate this crime to the
presence of God, and seek shoot their guns Uds. the air, and without
thinking smite any: maybe just get the sound intimidating, and make
the cats.

"Thus, with tears in his eyes, pulled the line prevented, which proves not to have hurt any of
the natives with more than 200 shots fired, and but then it wanted to ensure otherwise, was
an invention of the authors of the mutiny. Infuriated the tumultuantes, furious and full of anger,
some slings flashed against the windows, and tried to burn the house. The women carry stones were
used in the most were solid and strong in the mines, taking care not to men missing this provision.
4000 passed and the mutineers, increased risk of Europeans, locked
in the house of Endeiza, and waited for moments were victim of the
mob.

To avoid this, left the Church of the Blessed Sacrament of Mercy, whose diligence was not used
for anything other than to increase the crime of those barbarians with the greatest sacrilege:
it detached from all humanity, also missed the veneration and respect due to God of heaven and earth,
then ignored his real presence, and continued the assault on the house. The mayor, before he
heard shooting, he passed to the house of D. Manuel de Herrera, and begged him come out strongly
through the streets to calm the tumult, to see if their respect and got what was not able to achieve
after having used many means, to which he said was no longer time, and continued playing quietly
with the priest of Sorasora, D. Isidoro Velasco, and others, to whom
little interest was consternation in the village. Seeing the mayor
disillusioned, and made sure that sought to take his life, was compelled
to take flight to save her, and from the same house as Herrera took
the field without carrying any prevention for the road, and taking
of Cochabamba, managed to take refuge in the town, capital of the
province. mutineers continued its proceedings, and not to faint from
the company, some through the streets shouting: - "Come, Creoles and
Creole to carry stones to kill the escutcheons, as they have been
our enemies "and to irritate and stir the spirits, they said a few
times" and took his head to Don Jacinto Rodriguez: "others" have killed
30 civilians ours.

"But he stood out among them all was more than D. Juan Montesinos, who said a loud voice: -
"Go both men and women to my house, and bring wood and straw on fire, and kill these traitors escutcheons"
what to practice immediately, setting fire to the balconies and main store, with which, forced
to leave through the roof those unfortunate Europeans, went over
to the neighboring houses.

Then they warned, they took all the avenues, and finding no other recourse but to flee through the door
of the street, resolved to egecutarlo, but attacked with a furious crowd of natives, they would
kill and went out, until they were torn apart and unknowable. While some were engaged in these cruelties,
and burn the house, along with other women, looted shops and houses
high, where up to 700,000 pesos treasured the Europeans themselves,
and others who would have persuaded the insurance, deposited in his
possession, in the species of gold, silver coin, bars, cones, effects
of Castile and the earth: having already looted before the shop of
a creole, called Pantaleon Martinez, on the pretext that it was complicit
in the alleged attempt Europeans, for which reason was to lose all
their assets, and die with them.

At five in the morning of 11 and saw the pitiful sight of many dead,
lying in the streets, naked and so mangled that it was necessary
examine with great prolixity to meet them.

Not content with this revenge, were sent to take the site insulting
the roll, and then passed them to the threshold of the jail where
they kept two days, most of them being eaten by dogs.

They understood this disgrace, D . José Endeiza, D. Juan Blanco, D. Miguel Salinas, D. Juan Pedro
Ximenez, D. Juan Vicente Larra, D. Sunday Pavia, D. Ramon Llano, D. José Cayetano Casas, D. Antonio Sanchez,
D. Francisco Palazuelos, others not met, and five black.
  A notable fellow! --Lord W.'s necessary-man
was Paul before he went to sea.  A more sensible rogue Paul than Joseph!  Not such a pretender
to piety neither as the other.  At what a price have I bought that Joseph!  I believe I must
punish the rascal at last: but must let him marry first: then (though that may be punishment
enough) I shall punish two at once in the man and his wife.  And how richly does Betty deserve
punishment for her behaviour to my goddess!

But now I hear the rusty hinges of my beloved's door give me creaking invitation.  My heart
creaks and throbs with respondent trepidations: Whimsical enough though! for what relation
has a lover's heart to a rusty pair of hinges?  But they are the hinges that open and shut
the door of my beloved's bed-chamber.  Relation enough in that.

I hear not the door shut again.  I shall receive her commands I hope anon.  What signifies
her keeping me thus at a distance? she must be mine, let me do or offer what I will.  Courage
whenever I assume, all is over: for, should she think of escaping from hence, whither can she
fly to avoid me?  Her parents will not receive her.  Her uncles will not entertain her.  Her
beloved Norton is in their direction, and cannot. Miss Howe dare not.  She has not one friend
in town but me--is entirely a stranger to the town.  And what then is the matter with me, that
I should be thus unaccountably over-awed and tyrannized over by a dear creature who want sonly
to know how impossible it is that she should escape me, in order to be as humble to me as she
is to her persecuting relations!

Should I ever make the grand attempt, and fail, and should she hate me for it, her hatred can
be but temporary.  She has already incurred the censure of the world.  She must therefore choose
to be mine, for the sake of soldering up her reputation in the eye of that impudent world.
For, who that knows me, and knows that she has been in my power, though but for twenty-four
hours, will think her spotless as to fact, let her inclination be what it will?  And then human
nature is such a well-known rogue, that every man and woman judges by what each knows of him
or herself, that inclination is no more to be trusted, where an opportunity is given, than
I am; especially where a woman, young and blooming, loves a man well enough to go off with
him; for such will be the world's construction in the present case.

She calls her maid Dorcas.  No doubt, that I may hear her harmonious voice, and to give me
an opportunity to pour out my soul at her feet; to renew all my vows; and to receive her pardon
for the past offence: and then, with what pleasure shall I begin upon a new score, and afterwards
wipe out that; and begin another, and another, till the last offence passes; and there can
be no other!  And once, after that, to be forgiven, will be to be forgiven for ever.

***

The door is again shut. Dorcas tells me, that her lady denies to admit me to dine with her;
a favour I had ordered the wench to beseech her to grant me, the next time she saw her--not
uncivilly, however, denies-- coming-to by degrees!  Nothing but the last offence, the honest
wench tells me, in the language of her principals below, will do with her.  The last offence
is meditating.  Yet this vile recreant heart of mine plays me booty.

But here I conclude; though the tyranness leaves me nothing to do but to read, write, and fret.

Subscription is formal between us.  Besides, I am so much her's, that I cannot say how much
I am thine or any other person's.

LETTER XXII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE TUESDAY, MAY 9.

If, my dear, you approve of the application to my uncle Harlowe, I wish it to be made as soon
as possible.  We are quite out again.  I have shut myself up from him.  The offence indeed
not so very great--and yet it is too.  He had like to have got a letter.  One of your's.  But
never will I write again, or re-peruse my papers, in an apartment where he thinks himself entitled
to come.  He did not read a line of it.  Indeed he did not.  So don't be uneasy.  And depend
upon future caution.

Thus it was.  The sun being upon my closet, and Mr. Lovelace abroad--

She then gives Miss Howe an account of his coming by surprise upon her:
   of his fluttering speech: of his bold address: of her struggle with
   him for the letter, &c.

And now, my dear, proceeds she, I am more and more convinced, that I am too much in his power
to make it prudent to stay with him.  And if my friends will but give me hope, I will resolve
to abandon him for ever.

O my dear! he is a fierce, a foolish, an insolent creature!--And, in truth, I hardly expect
that we can accommodate.  How much unhappier am I already with him than my mother ever was
with my father after marriage! since (and that without any reason, any pretence in the world
for it) he is for breaking my spirit before I am his, and while I am, or ought to be [O my
folly, that I am not!] in my own power.

Till I can know whether my friends will give me hope or not, I must do what I never studied
to do before in any case; that is, try to keep this difference open: and yet it will make me
look little in my own eyes; because I shall mean by it more than I can own.  But this is one
of the consequences of all engagements, where the minds are unpaired--dispaired, in my case,
I must say.

Let this evermore be my caution to individuals of my sex--Guard your eye: 'twill ever be in
a combination against your judgment.  If there are two parts to be taken, it will be for ever,
traitor as it is, take the wrong one.

If you ask me, my dear, how this caution befits me? let me tell you a secret which I have but
very lately found out upon self-examination, although you seem to have made the discovery long
ago: That had not my foolish eye been too much attached, I had not taken the pains to attempt,
so officiously as I did, the prevention of mischief between him and some of my family, which
first induced the correspondence between us, and was the occasion of bringing the apprehended
mischief with double weight upon himself.  My vanity and conceit, as far as I know, might have
part in the inconsiderate measure: For does it not look as if I thought myself more capable
of obviating difficulties than anybody else of my family?

But you must not, my dear, suppose my heart to be still a confederate with my eye.  That deluded
eye now clearly sees its fault, and the misled heart despises it for it.  Hence the application
I am making to my uncle: hence it is, that I can say (I think truly) that I would atone for
my fault at any rate, even by the sacrifice of a limb or two, if that would do.

Adieu, my dearest friend!--May your heart never know the hundredth part of the pain mine at
present feels! prays

Your CLARISSA HARLOWE.

LETTER XXIII

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE WEDNESDAY, MAY 10.

I WILL write!  No man shall write for me.*  No woman shall hinder me from writing.  Surely
I am of age to distinguish between reason and caprice. I am not writing to a man, am I?--If
I were carrying on a correspondence with a fellow, of whom my mother disapproved, and whom
it might be improper for me to encourage, my own honour and my duty would engage my obedience.
But as the case is so widely different, not a word more on this subject, I beseech you!

* Clarissa proposes Mr. Hickman to write for Miss Howe.  See Letter XI. of this volume, Paragr.
5, & ult.

I much approve of your resolution to leave this wretch, if you can make it up with your uncle.

I hate the man--most heartily do I hate him, for his teasing ways.  The very reading of your
account of them teases me almost as much as they can you.  May you have encouragement to fly
the foolish wretch!

I have other reasons to wish you may: for I have just made an acquaintance with one who knows
a vast deal of his private history.  The man is really a villain, my dear! an execrable one!
if all be true that I have heard!  And yet I am promised other particulars.  I do assure you,
my dear friend, that, had he a dozen lives, he might have forfeited them all, and been dead
twenty crimes ago.

If ever you condescend to talk familiarly with him again, ask him after Miss Betterton, and
what became of her.  And if he shuffle and prevaricate as to her, question him about Miss Lockyer.--O
my dear, the man's a villain!

I will have your uncle sounded, as you desire, and that out of hand.  But yet I am afraid of
the success; and this for several reasons.  'Tis hard to say what the sacrifice of your estate
would do with some people: and yet I must not, when it comes to the test, permit you to make it.

As your Hannah continues ill, I would advise you to try to attach Dorcas to your interest.
Have you not been impoliticly shy of her?

I wish you could come at some of his letters.  Surely a man of his negligent character cannot
be always guarded.  If he be, and if you cannot engage your servant, I shall suspect them both.
Let him be called upon at a short warning when he is writing, or when he has papers lying about,
and so surprise him into negligence.

Such inquiries, I know, are of the same nature with those we make at an inn in traveling, when
we look into every corner and closet, for fear of a villain; yet should be frighted out of
our wits, were we to find one. But 'tis better to detect such a one when awake and up, than
to be attacked by him when in bed and asleep.

I am glad you have your clothes.  But no money!  No books but a Spira, a Drexelius, and a Practice
of Piety!  Those who sent the latter ought to have kept it for themselves--But I must hurry
myself from this subject.

You have exceedingly alarmed me by what you hint of his attempt to get one of my letters. 
I am assured by my new informant, that he is the head of a gang of wretched (those he brought
you among, no doubt, were some of them) who join together to betray innocent creatures, and
to support one another afterwards by violence; and were he to come at the knowledge of the
freedoms I take with him, I should be afraid to stir out without a guard.

I am sorry to tell you, that I have reason to think, that your brother has not laid aside his
foolish plot.  A sunburnt, sailor-looking fellow was with me just now, pretending great service
to you from Captain Singleton, could he be admitted to your speech.  I pleaded ignorance as
to the place of your abode.  The fellow was too well instructed for me to get any thing out of him.

I wept for two hours incessantly on reading your's, which enclosed that from your cousin Morden.*
My dearest creature, do not desert yourself. Let your Anna Howe obey the call of that friendship
which has united us as one soul, and endeavour to give you consolation.

* See Letter XIX. of this volume.

I wonder not at the melancholy reflections you so often cast upon yourself in your letters,
for the step you have been forced upon one hand, and tricked into on the other.  A strange
fatality!  As if it were designed to show the vanity of all human prudence.  I wish, my dear,
as you hint, that both you and I have not too much prided ourselves in a perhaps too conscious
superiority over others.  But I will stop--how apt are weak minds to look out for judgments
in any extraordinary event! 'Tis so far right, that it is better, and safer, and juster, to
arraign ourselves, or our dearest friends, than Providence; which must always have wise ends
to answer its dispensations.

But do not talk, as if one of your former, of being a warning only*--you will be as excellent
an example as ever you hoped to be, as well as a warning: and that will make your story, to
all that shall come to know it, of double efficacy: for were it that such a merit as yours
could not ensure to herself noble and generous usage from a libertine heart, who will expect
any tolerable behaviour from men of his character?

* See Vol. III. Letter XXVIII.

If you think yourself inexcusable for taking a step that put you into the way of delusion,
without any intention to go off with him, what must those giddy creatures think of themselves,
who, without half your provocations and inducements, and without any regard to decorum, leap
walls, drop from windows, and steal away from their parents' house, to the seducer's bed, in
the same day?

Again, if you are so ready to accuse yourself for dispensing with the prohibitions of the most
unreasonable parents, which yet were but half- prohibitions at first, what ought those to do,
who wilfully shut their ears to the advice of the most reasonable; and that perhaps, where
apparent ruin, or undoubted inconvenience, is the consequence of the predetermined rashness?

And lastly, to all who will know your story, you will be an excellent example of watchfulness,
and of that caution and reserve by which a prudent person, who has been supposed to be a little
misled, endeavours to mend her error; and, never once losing sight of her duty, does all in
her power to recover the path she has been rather driven out of than chosen to swerve from.

Come, come, my dearest friend, consider but these things; and steadily, without desponding,
pursue your earnest purposes to amend what you think has been amiss; and it may not be a misfortune
in the end that you have erred; especially as so little of your will was in your error.

And indeed I must say that I use the words misled, and error, and such- like, only in compliment
to your own too-ready self-accusations, and to the opinion of one to whom I owe duty: for I
think in my conscience, that every part of your conduct is defensible: and that those only
are blamable who have no other way to clear themselves but by condemning you.

I expect, however, that such melancholy reflections as drop from your pen but too often will
mingle with all your future pleasures, were you to marry Lovelace, and were he to make the
best of husbands.

You was immensely happy, above the happiness of a mortal creature, before you knew him: every
body almost worshipped you: envy itself, which has of late reared up its venomous head against
you, was awed, by your superior worthiness, into silence and admiration.  You was the soul
of every company where you visited.  Your elders have I seen declining to offer their opinions
upon a subject till you had delivered yours; often, to save themselves the mortification of
retracting theirs, when they heard yours.

Your works were showed or referred to wherever fine works were talked of. Nobody had any but
an inferior and second-hand praise for diligence, for economy, for reading, for writing, for
memory, for facility in learning every thing laudable, and even for the more envied graces
of person and dress, and an all-surpassing elegance in both, where you were known, and those
subjects talked of.

The poor blessed you every step you trod: the rich thought you their honour, and took a pride
that they were not obliged to descend from their own class for an example that did credit to it.

Though all men wished for you, and sought you, young as you were; yet, had not those who were
brought to address you been encouraged out of sordid and spiteful views, not one of them would
have dared to lift up his eyes to you.

Thus happy in all about you, thus making happy all within your circle, could you think that
nothing would happen to you, to convince you that you were not to be exempted from the common
lot?--To convinced you, that you were not absolutely perfect; and that you must not expect
to pass through life without trial, temptation, and misfortune?

Indeed, it must be owned that no trial, no temptation, worthy of your virtue, and of your prudence,
could well have attacked you sooner, because of your tender years, and more effectually, than
those heavy ones under which you struggle; since it must be allowed, that you equanimity and
foresight made you superior to common accidents; for are not most of the troubles that fall
to the lot of common mortals brought upon themselves either by their too large desires, or
too little deserts?-- Cases, both, from which you stood exempt.--It was therefore to be some
man, or some worse spirit in the shape of one, that, formed on purpose, was to be sent to invade
you; while as many other such spirits as there are persons in your family were permitted to
take possession, severally, in one dark hour, of the heart of every one of it, there to sit
perching, perhaps, and directing every motion to the motions of the seducer without, in order
to irritate, to provoke, to push you forward to meet him.

Upon the whole, there seems, as I have often said, to have been a kind of fate in your error,
if it were an error; and this perhaps admitted for the sake of a better example to be collected
from your SUFFERINGS, than could have been given, had you never erred: for my dear, the time
of ADVERSITY is your SHINING-TIME.  I see it evidently, that adversity must call forth graces
and beauties which could not have been brought to light in a run of that prosperous fortune
which attended you from your cradle till now; admirably as you became, and, as we all thought,
greatly as you deserved that prosperity.

All the matter is, the trial must be grievous to you.  It is to me: it is to all who love you,
and looked upon you as one set aloft to be admired and imitated, and not as a mark, as you
have lately found, for envy to shoot its shafts at.

Let what I have written above have its due weight with you, my dear; and then, as warm imaginations
are not without a mixture of enthusiasm, your Anna Howe, who, on reperusal of it, imagines
it to be in a style superior to her usual style, will be ready to flatter herself that she
has been in a manner inspired with the hints that have comforted and raised the dejected heart
of her suffering friend; who, from such hard trials, in a bloom so tender, may find at times
her spirits sunk too low to enable her to pervade the surrounding darkness, which conceals
from her the hopeful dawning of the better day which awaits her.

I will add no more at present, than that I am Your ever faithful and affectionate ANNA HOWE.

LETTER XXIV

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE FRIDAY, MAY 12.

I must be silent, my exalted friend, under praises that oppress my heart with a consciousness
of not deserving them; at the same time that the generous design of those praises raises and
comforts it: for it is a charming thing to stand high in the opinion of those we love; and
to find that there are souls that can carry their friendships beyond accidents, beyond body
and ties of blood.  Whatever, my dearest creature, is my shining-time, the time of a friend's
adversity is yours.  And it would be almost a fault in me to regret those afflictions, which
give you an opportunity so gloriously to exert those qualities, which not only ennoble our
sex, but dignify human nature.

But let me proceed to subjects less agreeable.

I am sorry you have reason to think Singleton's projects are not at an end.  But who knows
what the sailor had to propose?--Yet had any good been intended me, this method would hardly
have been fallen upon.

Depend upon it, my dear, your letters shall be safe.

I have made a handle of Mr. Lovelace's bold attempt and freedom, as I told you I would, to
keep him ever since at a distance, that I may have an opportunity to see the success of the
application to my uncle, and to be at liberty to embrace any favourable overtures that may
arise from it. Yet he has been very importunate, and twice brought Mr. Mennell from Mrs. Fretchvill
to talk about the house.--If I should be obliged to make up with him again, I shall think I
am always doing myself a spite.

As to what you mention of his newly-detected crimes; and your advice to attach Dorcas to my
interest; and to come at some of his letters; these things will require more or less of my
attention, as I may hope favour or not from my uncle Harlowe.

I am sorry that my poor Hannah continues ill.  Pray, my dear, inform yourself, and let me know,
whether she wants any thing that befits her case.

I will not close this letter till to-morrow is over; for I am resolved to go to church; and
this as well for the sake of my duty, as to see if I am at liberty to go out when I please
without being attended or accompanied.

SUNDAY, MAY 14.

I have not been able to avoid a short debate with Mr. Lovelace.  I had ordered a coach to the
door.  When I had noticed that it was come, I went out of my chamber to go to it; but met him
dressed on the stairs head, with a book in his hand, but without his hat and sword.  He asked,
with an air very solemn yet respectful, if I were going abroad.  I told him I was.  He desired
leave to attend me, if I were going to church.  I refused him.  And then he complained heavily
of my treatment of him; and declared that he would not live such another week as the past,
for the world.

I owned to him very frankly, that I had made an application to my friends; and that I was resolved
to keep myself to myself till I knew the issue of it.

He coloured, and seemed surprised.  But checking himself in something he was going to say,
he pleaded my danger from Singleton, and again desired to attend me.

And then he told me, that Mrs. Fretchville had desired to continue a fortnight longer in the
house.  She found, said he, that I was unable to determine about entering upon it; and now
who knows when such a vapourish creature will come to a resolution?  This, Madam, has been
an unhappy week; for had I not stood upon such bad terms with you, you might have been new
mistress of that house; and probably had my cousin Montague, if not Lady Betty, actually with you.

And so, Sir, taking all you say for granted, your cousin Montague cannot come to Mrs. Sinclair's?
What, pray, is her objection to Mrs. Sinclair's?  Is this house fit for me to live in a month
or two, and not fit for any of your relations for a few days?--And Mrs. Fretchville has taken
more time too!--Then, pushing by him, I hurried down stairs.

He called to Dorcas to bring him his sword and hat; and following me down into the passage,
placed himself between me and the door; and again desired leave to attend me.

Mrs. Sinclair came out at that instant, and asked me, if I did not choose a dish of chocolate?

I wish, Mrs. Sinclair, said I, you would take this man in with you to your chocolate.  I don't
know whether I am at liberty to stir out without his leave or not.

Then turning to him, I asked, if he kept me there his prisoner?

Dorcas just then bringing him his sword and hat, he opened the street- door, and taking my
reluctant hand, led me, in a very obsequious manner, to the coach.  People passing by, stopped,
stared, and whispered--But he is so graceful in his person and dress, that he generally takes
every eye.

I was uneasy to be so gazed at; and he stepped in after me, and the coachman drove to St. Paul's.

He was very full of assiduities all the way; while I was as reserved as possible: and when
I returned, dined, as I had done the greatest part of the week, by myself.

He told me, upon my resolving to do so, that although he would continue his passive observance
till I knew the issue of my application, yet I must expect, that then I should not rest one
moment till I had fixed his happy day: for that his very soul was fretted with my slights,
resentments, and delays.

A wretch! when can I say, to my infinite regret, on a double account, that all he complains
of is owing to himself!

O that I may have good tidings from my uncle!

Adieu, my dearest friend--This shall lie ready for an exchange (as I hope for one to-morrow
from you) that will decide, as I may say, the destiny of

Your CLARISSA HARLOWE.

LETTER XXV

MISS HOWE, TO MRS. JUDITH NORTON THURSDAY, MAY 11.

GOOD MRS. NORTON,

Cannot you, without naming me as an adviser, who am hated by the family, contrive a way to
let Mrs. Harlowe know, that in an accidental conversation with me, you had been assured that
my beloved friend pines after a reconciliation with her relations?  That she has hitherto,
in hopes of it, refused to enter into any obligation that shall be in the least a hinderance
[sic] to it: that she would fain avoid giving Mr. Lovelace a right to make her family uneasy
in relation to her grandfather's estate: that all she wishes for still is to be indulged in
her choice of a single life, and, on that condition, would make her father's pleasure her's
with regard to that estate: that Mr. Lovelace is continually pressing her to marry him; and
all his friends likewise: but that I am sure she has so little liking to the man, because of
his faulty morals, and of the antipathy of her relations to him, that if she had any hope given
her of a reconciliation, she would forego all thoughts of him, and put herself into her father's
protection.  But that their resolution must be speedy; for otherwise she would find herself
obliged to give way to his pressing entreaties; and it might then be out of her power to prevent
disagreeable litigations.

I do assure you, Mrs. Norton, upon my honour, that our dearest friend knows nothing of this
procedure of mine: and therefore it is proper to acquaint you, in confidence, with my grounds
for it.--These are they:

She had desired me to let Mr. Hickman drop hints to the above effect to her uncle Harlowe;
but indirectly, as from himself, lest, if the application should not be attended with success,
and Mr. Lovelace (who already takes it ill that he has so little of her favour) come to know
it, she may be deprived of every protection, and be perhaps subjected to great inconveniencies
from so haughty a spirit.

Having this authority from her, and being very solicitous about the success of the application,
I thought, that if the weight of so good a wife, mother, and sister, as Mrs. Harlowe is known
to be, were thrown into the same scale with that of Mr. John Harlowe (supposing he could be
engaged) it could hardly fail of making a due impression.

Mr. Hickman will see Mr. John Harlowe to-morrow: by that time you may see Mrs. Harlowe.  If
Mr. Hickman finds the old gentleman favourable, he will tell him, that you will have seen Mrs.
Harlowe upon the same account; and will advise him to join in consultation with her how best
to proceed to melt the most obdurate heart in the world.

This is the fair state of the matter, and my true motive for writing to you.  I leave all,
therefore, to your discretion; and most heartily wish success to it; being of opinion that
Mr. Lovelace cannot possibly deserve our admirable friend: nor indeed know I the man who does.

Pray acquaint me by a line of the result of your interposition.  If it prove not such as may
be reasonably hoped for, our dear friend shall know nothing of this step from me; and pray
let her not from you.  For, in that case, it would only give deeper grief to a heart already
too much afflicted.  I am, dear and worthy Mrs. Norton,

Your true friend, ANNA HOWE.

LETTER XXVI

MRS. NORTON, TO MISS HOWE SATURDAY, MAY 13.

DEAR MADAM,

My heart is almost broken, to be obliged to let you know, that such is the situation of things
in the family of my ever-dear Miss Harlowe, that there can be at present no success expected
from any application in her favour. Then, collecting the clear layer of dead embozose with it, making
him what a mess that squeezed under his arm.

He was about to jump back over the wall, he saw two faces looming behind
dark. It had a thrill.

It was Medrano and Pablillos, who had witnessed the whole scene from there. In falling to
the street, the squire received him on his chest, exclaiming: - Famous
thrust, voting to Christ!

Escape, flee quickly, lest the round again.

Ramiro empire ordenoles this time they were to wait for the sun, and giving them the coat
and hat, stood up resolutely to the house of Beatrice.

Arrived at the door, he noticed in the ground black mask Gonzalo promptly
took her put it on his face. He hit three times and then twice with
his knuckles.

The cloth layer effeminate perfume disengaged. His mind started to wander. He saw and stopped
several times to see Aixa a pillow adorned with gold thread and precious stones. Noted that
the nails in the door contained the heads of lions.

He called again. Too much emotion you drunk. Finally, the bolt creaked slightly and the shutter entreabriose;
Dona Alvarez put his head, and after having observed a moment, he whispered: - Good news, Don Gonzalo!
Then, opening the shutter and shaking all hand impatiently: - Presto,
presto - he said - sir crossing the yard and garden, and climb to
the tower.

When Ramiro was found at the top of the cube, from whose platform
had been sunset as a child in the company of the dwarf, leaned his
back against the battlements and began to wait. incomprehensible apathy
invade her: unconsciousness, a vague emotion, comparable to the beginning
of intoxication.

His meditating without understanding why. The cool night doeth smile
.

Down deep, undulating hillocks with gloomy color of steel.

The convent of the Incarnation, with its pale walls sad, poppy at
night its holy calm. Thin light floating above the abode of purity
and passion, as if the walls in it some miraculous garden of lilies.

Low clouds, cracked like icebergs, covered the sky, leaving transparent
that fearful ashy light favorable to all spells.

The roosters crowed at times, as if the dawn begin.

Beat a dog so gloomy at the foot of the wall.

Suddenly, on the stairs was heard rustling silk dresses. Ramiro stood. Cover a dark veil, a woman had
appeared on the tower, his hand, gloved, struck with grace the fold. Beatriz's pale complexion
shone with white marble then, and its shiny hair, girded by a ring of gold, taken at night
peacock bluish dark armor. Two locks were detached from others, vibrating in the air as double snake.
Wide silver lace skirt sapphire bedrooms, while the fabric of my
jacket disappeared under accounts and fringe, bead bound spotted as
water constantly restless.

The maid lifted her face with narrowed eyes, remaining motionless for a moment. His lips seemed
to suck the clear fluid coming down from heaven.

Ramiro felt like crazy before that appearance.

His whole being was not a sudden frenzy, a flame that reaches out
to devour the veil soon.

Beatrice was standing before him, his Beatrice, his wife, deified by the magic of the night and
silence. Forgot your suspicion, forget the role of Mrs. Alvarez and the recent drama; forgotten
like a drunk as a remedy, wearing the clothes of another man, forgot the mask that hid his
face, and thought that, after a hopeless dream, was at last with his beloved lord and husband,
on the enchanted castle tower. asiola walked toward her and with
sweetness.

Beatriz resisted weakly on his lip, wet, shivering a little light
blue, a drop of moon! Was at first a perfect kiss, almost disembodied, taken
with the breath, in the stillness, in height, on the dream of city
and land, but at first, the contact undecided finally awaken the senses,
and their mouths were bound, tightly clenched under the male rage.

Beatriz moaned unable to dodge, while Ramiro run through his body felt superhuman delight. In
order to achieve the longed, the dream touch!

Her kiss was the kiss of Beatrice, as often imagined! But suddenly, in the midst of that crazy
transportation, a flash of reason shone in his brain. The reality suddenly had to kill him. It was
a terrible thing.


Still, still indulge the fond, the overflowing heart of a mother!  I could dwell for ever upon
the remembrance of what she was, would but that remembrance banish from my mind what she is!

In her bosom, young as she was, could I repose all my griefs--sure of receiving from her prudence
and advice as well as comfort; and both insinuated in so dutiful a manner, that it was impossible
to take those exceptions which the distance of years and character between a mother and a daughter
would have made one apprehensive of from any other daughter. She was our glory when abroad,
our delight when at home.  Every body was even covetous of her company; and we grudged her
to our brothers Harlowe, and to our sister and brother Hervey.  No other contention among us,
then, but who should be next favoured by her.  No chiding ever knew she from us, but the chiding
of lovers, when she was for shutting herself up too long together from us, in pursuit of those
charming amusements and useful employments, for which, however, the whole family was the better.

Our other children had reason (good children as they always were) to think themselves neglected.
But they likewise were so sensible of their sister's superiority, and of the honour she reflected
upon the whole family, that they confessed themselves eclipsed, without envying the eclipser.
Indeed, there was not any body so equal with her, in their own opinions, as to envy what all
aspired but to emulate.  The dear creature, you know, my Norton, gave an eminence to us all!

Then her acquirements.  Her skill in music, her fine needle-works, her elegance in dress; for
which she was so much admired, that the neighbouring ladies used to say, that they need not
fetch fashions from London; since whatever Miss Clarissa Harlowe wore was the best fashion,
because her choice of natural beauties set those of art far behind them. Her genteel ease,
and fine turn of person; her deep reading, and these, joined to her open manners, and her cheerful
modesty--O my good Norton, what a sweet child was once my Clary Harlowe!

This, and more, you knew her to be: for many of her excellencies were owing to yourself; and
with the milk you gave her, you gave her what no other nurse in the world could give her.

And do you think, my worthy woman, do you think, that the wilful lapse of such a child is to
be forgiven?  Can she herself think that she deserves not the severest punishment for the abuse
of such talents as were intrusted to her?

Her fault was a fault of premeditation, of cunning, of contrivance.  She had deceived every
body's expectations.  Her whole sex, as well as the family she sprung from, is disgraced by it.

Would any body ever have believed that such a young creature as this, who had by her advice
saved even her over-lively friend from marrying a fop, and a libertine, would herself have
gone off with one of the vilest and most notorious of libertines?  A man whose character she
knew; and knew it to be worse than the character of him from whom she saved her friend; a man
against whom she was warned: one who had her brother's life in her hands; and who constantly
set our whole family at defiance.

Think for me, my good Norton; think what my unhappiness must be both as a wife and a mother.
What restless days, what sleepless nights; yet my own rankling anguish endeavoured to be smoothed
over, to soften the anguish of fiercer spirits, and to keep them from blazing out to further
mischief!  O this naughty, naughty girl, who knew so well what she did; and who could look
so far into consequences, that we thought she would have died rather than have done as she
had done!

Her known character for prudence leaves her absolutely without excuse. How then can I offer
to plead for her, if, through motherly indulgence, I would forgive her myself?--And have we
not moreover suffered all the disgrace that can befall us?  Has not she?

If now she has so little liking to his morals, has she not reason before to have as little?
Or has she suffered by them in her own person?--O my good woman, I doubt--I doubt--Will not
the character of the man make one doubt an angel, if once in his power?  The world will think
the worst.  I am told it does.  So likewise her father fears; her brother hears; and what can I do?

Our antipathy to him she knew before, as well as his character.  These therefore cannot be
new motives without a new reason.--O my dear Mrs. Norton, how shall I, how can you, support
ourselves under the apprehensions to which these thoughts lead!

He continually pressing her, you say, to marry him: his friends likewise. She has reason, no
doubt she has reason, for this application to us: and her crime is glossed over, to bring her
to us with new disgrace! Whither, whither, does one guilty step lead the misguided heart!--And
now, truly, to save a stubborn spirit, we are only to be sounded, that the application may
be occasionally retracted or denied!

Upon the whole: were I inclined to plead for her, it is now the most improper of all times.
Now that my brother Harlowe has discouraged (as he last night came hither on purpose to tell
us) Mr. Hickman's insinuated application; and been applauded for it.  Now, that my brother
Antony is intending to carry his great fortune, through her fault, into another family:--she
expecting, no doubt, herself to be put into her grandfather's estate, in consequence of a reconciliation,
and as a reward for her fault: and insisting still upon the same terms which she offered before,
and which were rejected--Not through my fault, I am sure, rejected!

From all these things you will return such an answer as the case requires.  It might cost me
the peace of my whole life, at this time, to move for her.  God forgive her!  If I do, nobody
else will.  And let it, for your own sake, as well as mine, be a secret that you and I have
entered upon this subject.  And I desire you not to touch upon it again but by particular permission:
for, O my dear, good woman, it sets my heart a bleeding in as many streams as there are veins
in it!

Yet think me not impenetrable by a proper contrition and remorse--But what a torment is it
to have a will without a power!

Adieu! adieu!  God give us both comfort; and to the once dear--the ever- dear creature (for
can a mother forget her child?) repentance, deep repentance! and as little suffering as may
befit his blessed will, and her grievous fault, prays

Your real friend, CHARLOTTE HARLOWE.

LETTER XXIX

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE SUNDAY, MAY 14.

How it is now, my dear, between you and Mr. Lovelace, I cannot tell. But, wicked as the man
is, I am afraid he must be your lord and master.

I called him by several very hard names in my last.  I had but just heard of some of his vilenesses,
when I sat down to write; so my indignation was raised.  But on inquiry, and recollection,
I find that the facts laid to his charge were all of them committed some time ago--not since
he has had strong hopes of your favour.

This is saying something for him.  His generous behaviour to the innkeeper's daughter is a
more recent instance to his credit; to say nothing of the universal good character he has as
a kind landlord.  And then I approve much of the motion he made to put you in possession of
Mrs. Fretchville's house, while he continues at the other widow's, till you agree that one
house shall hold you.  I wish this were done.  Be sure you embrace this offer, (if you do not
soon meet at the altar,) and get one of his cousins with you.

Were you once married, I should think you cannot be very unhappy, though you may not be so
happy with him as you deserve to be.  The stake he has in his country, and his reversions;
the care he takes of his affairs; his freedom from obligation; nay, his pride, with your merit,
must be a tolerable security for you, I should think.  Though particulars of his wickedness,
as they come to my knowledge, hurt and incense me; yet, after all, when I give myself time
to reflect, all that I have heard of him to his disadvantage was comprehended in the general
character given of him long ago, by Lord M.'s and his own dismissed bailiff,* and which was
confirmed to me by Mrs. Fortescue, as I heretofore told you,** and to you by Mrs. Greme.***

* See Vol. I. Letter IV. ** Ibid. Letter XII. *** See Vol. III. Letter VI.

You can have nothing, therefore, I think, to be deeply concerned about, but his future good,
and the bad example he may hereafter set to his own family.  These indeed are very just concerns:
but were you to leave him now, either with or without his consent, his fortunes and alliances
so considerable, his person and address so engaging, (every one excusing you now on those accounts,
and because of your relations' follies,) it would have a very ill appearance for your reputation.
I cannot, therefore, on the most deliberate consideration, advise you to think of that, while
you have no reason to doubt his honour.  May eternal vengeance pursue the villain, if he give
room for an apprehension of this nature!

Yet his teasing ways are intolerable; his acquiescence with your slight delays, and his resignedness
to the distance you now keep him at, (for a fault so much slighter, as he must think, than
the punishment,) are unaccountable: He doubts your love of him, that is very probable; but
you have reason to be surprised at his want of ardour; a blessing so great within his reach,
as I may say.

By the time you have read to this place, you will have no doubt of what has been the issue
of the conference between the two gentlemen.  I am equally shocked, and enraged against them
all.  Against them all, I say; for I have tried your good Norton's weight with your mother,
(though at first I did not intend to tell you so,) to the same purpose as the gentleman sounded
your uncle.  Never were there such determined brutes in the world!  Why should I mince the
matter?  Yet would I fain, methinks, make an exception for your mother.

Your uncle will have it that you are ruined.  'He can believe every thing bad of a creature,
he says, who could run away with a man; with such a one especially as Lovelace.  They expected
applications from you, when some heavy distress had fallen upon you.  But they are all resolved
not to stir an inch in your favour; no, not to save your life!'

My dearest soul, resolve to assert your right.  Claim your own, and go and live upon it, as
you ought.  Then, if you marry not, how will the wretches creep to you for your reversionary
dispositions!

You were accused (as in your aunt's letter) 'of premeditation and contrivance in your escape.'
Instead of pitying you, the mediating person was called upon 'to pity them; who once, your
uncle said, doated upon you: who took no joy but in your presence: who devoured your words
as you spoke them: who trod over again your footsteps, as you walked before them.'--And I know
not what of this sort.

Upon the whole, it is now evident to me, and so it must be to you, when you read this letter,
that you must be his.  And the sooner you are so the better.  Shall we suppose that marriage
is not in your power?--I cannot have patience to suppose that.

I am concerned, methinks, to know how you will do to condescend, (now you see you must be his,)
after you have kept him at such a distance; and for the revenge his pride may put him upon
taking for it.  But let me tell you, that if my going up, and sharing fortunes with you, will
prevent such a noble creature from stooping too low; much more, were it likely to prevent your
ruin, I would not hesitate a moment about it.  What is the whole world to me, weighed against
such a friend as you are?  Think you, that any of the enjoyments of this life could be enjoyments
to me, were you involved in calamities, from which I could either alleviate or relieve you,
by giving up those enjoyments?  And what in saying this, and acting up to it, do I offer you,
but the frits of a friendship your worth has created?

Excuse my warmth of expression.  The warmth of my heart wants none.  I am enraged at your relations;
for, bad as what I have mentioned is, I have not told you all; nor now, perhaps, ever will.
I am angry at my own mother's narrowness of mind, and at her indiscriminate adherence to old
notions.  And I am exasperated against your foolish, your low-vanity'd Lovelace.  But let us
stoop to take the wretch as he is, and make the best of him, since you are destined to stoop,
to keep grovellers and worldlings in countenance.  He had not been guilty of a direct indecency
to you.  Nor dare he--not so much of a devil as that comes to neither. Had he such villainous
intentions, so much in his power as you are, they would have shewn themselves before now to
such a penetrating and vigilant eye, and to such a pure heart as yours.  Let us save the wretch
then, if we can, though we soil our fingers in lifting him up his dirt.

There is yet, to a person of your fortune and independence, a good deal to do, if you enter
upon those terms which ought to be entered upon.  I don't find that he has once talked of settlements;
nor yet of the license.  A foolish wretch!--But as your evil destiny has thrown you out of
all other protection and mediation, you must be father, mother, uncle, to yourself; and enter
upon the requisite points for yourself.  It is hard upon you; but indeed you must.  Your situation
requires it.  What room for delicacy now?--Or would you have me write to him? yet that would
be the same thing as if you were to write yourself.  Yet write you should, I think, if you
cannot speak.  But speaking is certainly best: for words leave no traces; they pass as breath;
and mingle with air; and may be explained with latitude.  But the pen is a witness on record.

I know the gentleness of your spirit; I know the laudable pride of your heart; and the just
notion you have of the dignity of our sex in these delicate points.  But once more, all this
in nothing now: your honour is concerned that the dignity I speak of should not be stood upon.

'Mr. Lovelace,' would I say; yet hate the foolish fellow for his low, his stupid pride, in
wishing to triumph over the dignity of his own wife;-- 'I am by your means deprived of every
friend I have in the world.  In what light am I to look upon you?  I have well considered every
thing. You have made some people, much against my liking, think me a wife: others know I am
not married; nor do I desire any body should believe I am: Do you think your being here in
the same house with me can be to my reputation?  You talked to me of Mrs. Fretchville's house.'
This will bring him to renew his last discourse on the subject, if he does not revive it of
himlsef.  'If Mrs. Fretchville knows not her own mind, what is her house to me?  You talked
of bringing up your cousin Montague to bear me company: if my brother's schemes be your pretence
for not going yourself to fetch her, you can write to her.  I insist upon bringing these two
points to an issue: off or on ought to be indifferent to me, if so to them.'

Such a declaration must bring all forward.  There are twenty ways, my dear, that you would
find out for another in your circumstances.  He will disdain, from his native insolence, to
have it thought he has any body to consult.  Well then, will he not be obliged to declare himself?
And if he does, no delays on your side, I beseech you.  Give him the day.  Let it be a short
one.  It would be derogating from your own merit, not to be so explicit as he ought to be,
to seem but to doubt his meaning; and to wait for that explanation for which I should ever
despise him, if he makes it necessary.  Twice already have you, my dear, if not oftener modesty'd
away such opportunities as you ought not to have slipped.  As to settlements, if they come
not in naturally, e'en leave them to his own justice, and to the justice of his family,  And
there's an end of the matter.

This is my advice: mend it as circumstances offer, and follow your own. But indeed, my dear,
this, or something like it, would I do.  And let him tell me afterwards, if he dared or would,
that he humbled down to his shoe-buckles the person it would have been his glory to exalt.

Support yourself, mean time, with reflections worthy of yourself.  Though tricked into this
man's power, you are not meanly subjugated to it.  All his reverence you command, or rather,
as I may say, inspire; since it was never known, that he had any reverence for aught that was
good, till you was with him: and he professes now and then to be so awed and charmed by your
example, as that the force of it shall reclaim him.

I believe you will have a difficult task to keep him to it; but the more will be your honour,
if you effect his reformation: and it is my belief, that if you can reclaim this great, this
specious deceiver, who has, morally speaking, such a number of years before him, you will save
from ruin a multitude of innocents; for those seem to me to have been the prey for which he
has spread his wicked snares.  And who knows but, for this very purpose, principally, a person
may have been permitted to swerve, whose heart or will never was in her error, and who has
so much remorse upon her for having, as she thinks, erred at all?  Adieu, my dearest friend.

ANNA HOWE.

ENCLOSED IN THE ABOVE.

I must trouble you with my concerns, though you own are so heavy upon you.  A piece of news
I have to tell you.  Your uncle Antony is disposed to marry.  With whom, think you? with my
mother.  True indeed.  Your family knows it.  All is laid with redoubled malice at your door.
And there the old soul himself lays it.

Take no notice of this intelligence, not so much as in your letters to me, for fear of accidents.

I think it can't do.  But were I to provoke my mother, that might afford a pretence.  Else,
I should have been with you before now, I fancy.

The first likelihood that appears to me of encouragement, I dismiss Hickman, that's certain.
If my mother disoblige me in so important an article, I shan't think of obliging her in such
another.  It is impossible, surely, that the desire of popping me off to that honest man can
be with such a view.

I repeat, that it cannot come to any thing.  But these widows--Then such a love in us all,
both old and young, of being courted and admired!--and so irresistible to their elderships
to be flattered, that all power is not over with them; but that they may still class and prank
it with their daughters.--It vexed me heartily to have her tell me of this proposal with self-complaisant
simperings; and yet she affected to speak of it as if she had no intention to encourage it.

These antiquated bachelors (old before they believe themselves to be so) imagine that when
they have once persuaded themselves to think of the state, they have nothing more to do than
to make their minds known to the woman.

Your uncle's overgrown fortune is indeed a bait; a tempting one.  A saucy daughter to be got
rid of!  The memory of the father of that daughter not precious enough to weigh much!--But
let him advance if he dare--let her encourage--but I hope she won't.

Excuse me, my dear.  I am nettled.  They have fearfully rumpled my gorget.  You'll think me
faulty.  So, I won't put my name to this separate paper.  Other hands may resemble mine.  You
did not see me write it.

LETTER XXX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE MONDAY AFTERNOON, MAY 15.

Now indeed it is evident, my best, my only friend, that I have but one choice to make.  And
now I do find that I have carried my resentment against this man too far; since now I am to
appear as if under an obligation to his patience with me for a conduct, which perhaps he will
think (if not humoursome and childish) plainly demonstrative of my little esteem of him; of
but a secondary esteem at least, where before, his pride, rather than his merit, had made him
expect a first.  O my dear! to be cast upon a man that is not a generous man; that is indeed
a cruel man! a man that is capable of creating a distress to a young creature, who, by her
evil destiny is thrown into his power; and then of enjoying it, as I may say!  [I verily think
I may say so, of this savage!]--What a fate is mine!

You give me, my dear, good advice, as to the peremptory manner in which I ought to treat him:
But do you consider to whom it is that you give it?-- And then should I take it, and should
he be capable of delay, I unprotected, desolate, nobody to fly to, in what a wretched light
must I stand in his eyes; and, what is still as bad, in my own!  O my dear, see you not, as
I do, that the occasion for this my indelicate, my shocking situation should never have been
given by me, of all creatures; since I am unequal, utterly unequal, to the circumstances to
which my inconsideration has reduced me?--What!  I to challenge a man for a husband!--I to
exert myself to quicken the delayer in his resolutions! and, having as you think lost an opportunity,
to begin to try to recall it, as from myself, and for myself! to threaten him, as I may say,
into the marriage state!--O my dear! if this be right to be done, how difficult is it, where
modesty and self (or where pride, if you please) is concerned, to do that right? or, to express
myself in your words, to be father, mother, uncle, to myself!--especially where one thinks
a triumph over one is intended.

You say, you have tried Mrs. Norton's weight with my mother--bad as the returns are which my
application by Mr. Hickman has met with, you tell me, 'that you have not acquainted me with
all the bad, nor now, perhaps, ever will.'  But why so, my dear?  What is the bad, what can
be the bad, which now you will never tell me of?--What worse, than renounce me! and for ever!
'My uncle, you say, believes me ruined: he declares that he can believe every thing bad of
a creature who could run away with a man: and they have all made a resolution not to stir an
inch in my favour; no, not to save my life!'--Have you worse than this, my dear, behind?--Surely
my father has not renewed his dreadful malediction!--Surely, if so, my mother has not joined
in it!  Have my uncles given their sanction, and made it a family act?  And themselves thereby
more really faulty, than ever THEY suppose me to be, though I the cause of that greater fault
in them?--What, my dear, is the worst, that you will leave for ever unrevealed?

O Lovelace! why comest thou not just now, while these black prospects are before me?  For now,
couldst thou look into my heart, wouldst thou see a distress worthy of thy barbarous triumph!

***

I was forced to quit my pen.  And you say you have tried Mrs. Norton's weight with my mother?

What is done cannot be remedied: but I wish you had not taken a step of this importance to
me without first consulting me.  Forgive me, my dear, but I must tell you that that high-soul'd
and noble friendship which you have ever avowed with so obliging and so uncommon a warmth,
although it has been always the subject of my grateful admiration, has been often the ground
of my apprehension, because of its unbridled fervour.

Well, but now to look forward, you are of opinion that I must be his: and that I cannot leave
him with reputation to myself, whether with or without his consent.  I must, if so, make the
best of the bad matter.

He went out in the morning; intending not to return to dinner, unless (as he sent me word)
I would admit him to dine with me.

I excused myself.  The man, whose anger is now to be of such high importance to me, was, it
seems, displeased.

As he (as well as I) expected that I should receive a letter from you this day by Collins,
I suppose he will not be long before he returns; and then, possibly, he is to be mighty stately,
mighty mannish, mighty coy, if you please!  And then must I be very humble, very submissive,
and try to insinuate myself into his good graces: with downcast eye, if not by speech, beg
his forgiveness for the distance I have so perversely kept him at?--Yes, I warrant!--But I
shall see how this behaviour will sit upon me!--You have always rallied me upon my meekness,
I think: well then, I will try if I can be still meeker, shall I!--O my dear!--

But let me sit with my hands before me, all patience, all resignation; for I think I hear him
coming up.  Or shall I roundly accost him, in the words, in the form, which you, my dear, prescribed?

He is come in.  He has sent to me, all impatience, as Dorcas says, by his aspect.--But I cannot,
cannot see him!

MONDAY NIGHT.

The contents of your letter, and my own heavy reflections, rendered me incapable of seeing
this expecting man.  The first word he asked Dorcas, was, If I had received a letter since
he had been out?  She told me this; and her answer, that I had; and was fasting, and had been
in tears ever since.

He sent to desire an interview with me.

I answered by her, That I was not very well.  In the morning, if better, I would see him as
soon as he pleased.

Very humble! was it not, my dear?  Yet he was too royal to take it for humility; for Dorcas
told me, he rubbed one side of his face impatiently; and said a rash word, and was out of humour;
stalking about the room.

Half an hour later, he sent again; desiring very earnestly, that I should admit him to supper
with me.  He would enter upon no subjects of conversation but what I should lead to.

So I should have been at liberty, you see, to court him!

I again desired to be excused.

Indeed, my dear, my eyes were swelled: I was very low spirited; and could not think of entering
all at once, after the distance I had kept him at for several days, into the freedom of conversation
which the utter rejection I have met with from my relations, as well as your advice, has made
necessary.

He sent up to tell me, that as he heard I was fasting, if I would promise to eat some chicken
which Mrs. Sinclair had ordered for supper, he would acquiesce.--Very kind in his anger!  Is
he not?

I promised that I would.  Can I be more preparatively condescending?--How happy, I'll warrant,
if I may meet him in a kind and forgiving humour!

I hate myself!  But I won't be insulted.  Indeed I won't, for all this.

LETTER XXXI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE TUESDAY, MAY 16.

I think once more we seem to be in a kind of train; but through a storm. I will give you the
particulars.

I heard him in the dining-room at five in the morning.  I had rested very ill, and was up too.
But opened not my door till six: when Dorcas brought me his request for my company.

He approached me, and taking my hand, as I entered the dining-room, I went not to bed, Madam,
till two, said he; yet slept not a wink.  For God's sake, torment me not, as you have done
for a week past.

He paused.  I was silent.

At first, proceeded he, I thought your resentment of a curiosity, in which I had been disappointed,
could not be deep; and that it would go off of itself: But, when I found it was to be kept
up till you knew the success of some new overtures which you had made, and which, complied
with, might have deprived me of you for ever, how, Madam, could I support myself under the
thoughts of having, with such an union of interests, made so little impression upon your mind
in my favour?

He paused again.  I was still silent.  He went on.

I acknowledge that I have a proud heart, Madam.  I cannot but hope for some instances of previous
and preferable favour from the lady I am ambitious to call mine; and that her choice of me
should not appear, not flagrantly appear, directed by the perverseness of her selfish persecutors,
who are my irreconcilable enemies.

More to the same purpose he said.  You know, my dear, the room he had given me to recriminate
upon him in twenty instances.  I did not spare him.

Every one of these instances, said I, (after I had enumerated them) convinces me of your pride
indeed, Sir, but not of your merit.  I confess, that I have as much pride as you can have,
although I hope it is of another kind than that you so readily avow.  But if, Sir, you have
the least mixture in yours of that pride which may be expected, and thought laudable, in a
man of your birth, alliances, and fortune, you should rather wish, I will presume to say, to
promote what you call my pride, than either to suppress it, or to regret that I have it.  It
is this my acknowledged pride, proceeded I, that induces me to tell you, Sir, that I think
it beneath me to disown what have been my motives for declining, for some days past, any conversation
with you, or visit from Mr. Mennell, that might lead to points out of my power to determine
upon, until I heard from my uncle Harlowe; whom, I confess, I have caused to be sounded, whether
I might be favoured with his interest to obtain for me a reconciliation with my friends, upon
terms which I had caused to be proposed.

I know not, said he, and suppose must not presume to ask, what those terms were.  But I can
but too well guess at them; and that I was to have been the preliminary sacrifice.  But you
must allow me, Madam, to say, That as much as I admire the nobleness of your sentiments in
general, and in particular that laudable pride which you have spoken of, I wish that I could
compliment you with such an uniformity in it, as had set you as much above all submission to
minds implacable and unreasonable, (I hope I may, without offence, say, that your brother's
and sister's are such,) as it has above all favour and condescension to me.

Duty and nature, Sir, call upon me to make the submissions you speak of: there is a father,
there is a mother, there are uncles in the one case, to justify and demand those submissions.
What, pray, Sir, can be pleaded for the condescension, as you call it?  Will you say, your
merits, either with regard to them, or to myself, may?

This, Madam, to be said, after the persecutions of those relations! After what you have suffered!
After what you have made me hope!  Let me, my dearest creature, ask you, (we have been talking
of pride,) What sort of pride must his be, which can dispense with inclination and preference
in the lady whom he adores?--What must that love--

Love, Sir! who talks of love?--Was not merit the thing we were talking of?--Have I ever professed,
have I ever required of you professions of a passion of that nature?--But there is no end of
these debatings; each so faultless, each so full of self--

I do not think myself faultless, Madam:--but--

But what, Sir!--Would you ever more argue with me, as if you were a child?--Seeking palliations,
and making promises?--Promises of what, Sir? Of being in future the man it is a shame a gentleman
is not?--Of being the man--

Good God! interrupted he, with eyes lifted up, if thou wert to be thus severe--

Well, well, Sir! [impatiently]  I need only to observe, that all this vast difference in sentiment
shows how unpaired our minds are--so let us--

Let us what, Madam?--My soul is rising into tumults!  And he looked so wildly, that I was a
good deal terrified--Let us what, Madam?----

I was, however, resolved not to desert myself--Why, Sir! let us resolve to quit every regard
for each other.--Nay, flame not out--I am a poor weak-minded creature in some things: but where
what I should be, or not deserve to live, if I am not is in the question, I have a great and
invincible spirit, or my own conceit betrays me--let us resolve to quit every regard for each
other that is more than civil.  This you may depend upon: I will never marry any other man.
I have seen enough of your sex; at least of you.--A single life shall ever be my choice: while
I will leave you at liberty to pursue your own.

Indifference, worse than indifference! said he, in a passion--

Interrupting him--Indifference let it be--you have not (in my opinion at least) deserved that
it should be other: if you have in your own, you have cause (at least your pride has) to hate
me for misjudging you.

Dearest, dearest creature! snatching my hand with fierceness, let me beseech you to be uniformly
noble!  Civil regards, Madam!--Civil regards! --Can you so expect to narrow and confine such
a passion as mine?

Such a passion as yours, Mr. Lovelace, deserves to be narrowed and confined.  It is either
the passion you do not think it, or I do not.  I question whether your mind is capable of being
so narrowed and so widened, as is necessary to make it be what I wish it to be.  Lift up your
hands and your eyes, Sir, in silent wonder, if you please; but what does that wonder express,
what does it convince me of, but that we are not born for one another.

By my soul, said he, and grasped my hand with an eagerness that hurt it, we were born for one
another: you must be mine--you shall be mine [and put his other hand round me] although my
damnation were to be the purchase!

I was still more terrified--let me leave you, Mr. Lovelace, said I; or do you be gone from
me.  Is the passion you boast of to be thus shockingly demonstrated?

You must not go, Madam!--You must not leave me in anger--

I will return--I will return--when you can be less violent--less shocking.

And he let me go.

The man quite frighted me; insomuch, that when I got into my chamber, I found a sudden flow
of tears a great relief to me.

In half an hour, he sent a little billet, expressing his concern for the vehemence of his behaviour,
and prayed to see me.

I went.  Because I could not help myself, I went.

He was full of excuses--O my dear, what would you, even you, do with such a man as this; and
in my situation?

It was very possible for him now, he said, to account for the workings of a beginning phrensy.
For his part, he was near distraction.  All last week to suffer as he had suffered; and now
to talk of civil regards only, when he had hoped, from the nobleness of my mind--

Hope what you will, interrupted I, I must insist upon it, that our minds are by no means suited
to each other.  You have brought me into difficulties.  I am deserted by every friend but Miss
Howe.  My true sentiments I will not conceal--it is against my will that I must submit to owe
protection from a brother's projects, which Miss Howe thinks are not given over, to you, who
have brought me into these straights: not with my own concurrence brought me into them; remember
that--

I do remember that, Madam!--So often reminded, how can I forget it?--

Yet I will owe to you this protection, if it be necessary, in the earnest hope that you will
shun, rather than seek mischief, if any further inquiry after me be made.  But what hinders
you from leaving me?--Cannot I send to you?  The widow Fretchville, it is plain, knows not
her own mind: the people here are more civil to me every day than other: but I had rather have
lodgings more agreeable to my circumstances.  I best know what will suit them; and am resolved
not to be obliged to any body.  If you leave me, I will privately retire to some one of the
neighbouring villages, and there wait my cousin Morden's arrival with patience.

I presume, Madam, replied he, from what you have said, that your application to Harlowe-place
has proved unsuccessful: I therefore hope that you will now give me leave to mention the terms
in the nature of settlements, which I have long intended to propose to you; and which having
till now delayed to do, through accidents not proceeding from myself, I had thoughts of urging
to you the moment you entered upon your new house; and upon your finding yourself as independent
in appearance as you are in fact.  Permit me, Madam, to propose these matters to you-- not
with an expectation of your immediate answer; but for your consideration.

Were not hesitation, a self-felt glow, a downcast eye, encouragement more than enough? and
yet you will observe (as I now do on recollection) that he was in no great hurry to solicit
for a day; since he had no thoughts of proposing settlements till I had got into my new house;
and now, in his great complaisance to me, he desired leave to propose his terms, not with an
expectation of my immediate answer; but for my consideration only --Yet, my dear, your advice
was too much in my head at this time.  I hesitated.

He urged on upon my silence; he would call God to witness to the justice, nay to the generosity
of his intentions to me, if I would be so good as to hear what he had to propose to me, as
to settlements.

Could not the man have fallen into the subject without this parade?  Many a point, you know,
is refused, and ought to be refused, if leave be asked to introduce it; and when once refused,
the refusal must in honour be adhered to--whereas, had it been slid in upon one, as I may say,
it might have merited further consideration.  If such a man as Mr. Lovelace knows not this,
who should?

But he seemed to think it enough that he had asked my leave to propose his settlements.  He
took no advantage of my silence, as I presume men as modest as Mr. Lovelace would have done
in a like case: yet, gazing in my face very confidently, and seeming to expect my answer, I
thought myself obliged to give the subject a more diffuse turn, in order to save myself the
mortification of appearing too ready in my compliance, after such a distance as had been between
us; and yet (in pursuance of your advice) I was willing to avoid the necessity of giving him
such a repulse as might again throw us out of the course--a cruel alternative to be reduced to!

You talk of generosity, Mr. Lovelace, said I; and you talk of justice; perhaps, without having
considered the force of the words, in the sense you use them on this occasion.--Let me tell
you what generosity is, in my sense of the word--TRUE GENEROSITY is not confined to pecuniary
instances: it is more than politeness: it is more than good faith: it is more than honour;
it is more than justice; since all of these are but duties, and what a worthy mind cannot dispense
with.  But TRUE GENEROSITY is greatness of soul.  It incites us to do more by a fellow-creature
than can be strictly required of us.  It obliges us to hasten to the relief of an object that
wants relief; anticipating even such a one's hope or expectation.  Generosity, Sir, will not
surely permit a worthy mind to doubt of its honourable and beneficent intentions: much less
will it allow itself to shock, to offend any one; and, least of all, a person thrown by adversity,
mishap, or accident, into its protection.

What an opportunity had he to clear his intentions had he been so disposed, from the latter
part of this home observation!--but he ran away with the first, and kept to that.

Admirably defined! he said--But who, at this rate, Madam, can be said to be generous to you?--Your
generosity I implore, while justice, as it must be my sole merit, shall be my aim.  Never was
there a woman of such nice and delicate sentiments!

It is a reflection upon yourself, Sir, and upon the company you have kept, if you think these
notions either nice or delicate.  Thousands of my sex are more nice than I; for they would
have avoided the devious path I have been surprised into; the consequences of which surprise
have laid me under the sad necessity of telling a man, who has not delicacy enough to enter
into those parts of the female character which are its glory and distinction, what true generosity
is.

His divine monitress, he called me.  He would endeavour to form his manners (as he had often
promised) by my example.  But he hoped I would now permit him to mention briefly the justice
he proposed to do me, in the terms of the settlements; a subject so proper, before now, to
have entered upon; and which would have been entered upon long ago, had not my frequent displeasure
[I am ever in fault, my dear!] taken from him the opportunity he had often wished for: but
now, having ventured to lay hold of this, nothing should divert him from improving it.

I have no spirits, just now, Sir, to attend such weighty points.  What you have a mind to propose,
write to me: and I shall know what answer to return.  Only one thing let me remind you of,
that if you touch upon a subject, in which my father has a concern, I shall judge by your treatment
of the father what value you have for the daughter.

He looked as if he would choose rather to speak than write: but had he said so, I had a severe
return to have made upon him; as possibly he might see by my looks.

***

In this way are we now: a sort of calm, as I said, succeeding a storm. What may happen next,
whether a storm or a calm, with such a spirit as I have to deal with, who can tell?

But, be that as it will, I think, my dear, I am not meanly off: and that is a great point with
me; and which I know you will be glad to hear: if it were only, that I can see this man without
losing any of that dignity [What other word can I use, speaking of myself, that betokens decency,
and not arrogance?] which is so necessary to enable me to look up, or rather with the mind's
eye, I may say, to look down upon a man of this man's cast.

Although circumstance have so offered, that I could not take your advice as to the manner of
dealing with him; yet you gave me so much courage by it, as has enabled me to conduct things
to this issue; as well as determined me against leaving him: which, before, I was thinking
to do, at all adventures.  Whether, when it came to the point, I should have done so, or not,
I cannot say, because it would have depended upon his behaviour at the time.

But let his behaviour be what it will, I am afraid, (with you,) that should any thing offer
at last to oblige me to leave him, I shall not mend my situation in the world's eye; but the
contrary.  And yet I will not be treated by him with indignity while I have any power to help
myself.

You, my dear, have accused me of having modesty'd away, as you phrase it, several opportunities
of being--Being what, my dear?--Why, the wife of a libertine: and what a libertine and his
wife are my cousin Morden's letter tells us.--Let me here, once for all, endeavour to account
for the motives of behavior to this man, and for the principles I have proceeded upon, as they
appear to me upon a close self-examination.

Be pleased to allow me to think that my motives on this occasion rise not altogether from maidenly
niceness; nor yet from the apprehension of what my present tormenter, and future husband, may
think of a precipitate compliance, on such a disagreeable behaviour as his: but they arise
principally from what offers to my own heart; respecting, as I may say, its own rectitude,
its own judgment of the fit and the unfit; as I would, without study, answer for myself to
myself, in the first place; to him, and to the world, in the second only.  Principles that
are in my mind; that I found there; implanted, no doubt, by the first gracious Planter: which
therefore impel me, as I may say, to act up to them, that thereby I may, to the best of my
judgment, be enabled to comport myself worthily in both states, (the single and the married),
let others act as they will by me.

I hope, my dear, I do not deceive myself, and, instead of setting about rectifying what is
amiss in my heart, endeavour to find excuses for habits and peculiarities, which I am unwilling
to cast off or overcome. The heart is very deceitful: do you, my dear friend, lay mine open,
[but surely it is always open before you!] and spare me not, if you think it culpable.

This observation, once for all, as I said, I thought proper to make, to convince you that,
to the best of my judgment, my errors, in matters as well of lesser moment as of greater, shall
rather be the fault of my judgment than of my will.

Mr. Lovelace has sent me, by Dorcas, his proposals, as follow:

'To spare a delicacy so extreme, and to obey you, I write: and the rather that you may communicate
this paper to Miss Howe, who may consult any of her friends you shall think proper to have
intrusted on this occasion.  I say intrusted; because, as you know, I have given it out to
several persons, that we are actually married.

'In the first place, Madam, I offer to settle upon you, by way of jointure, your whole estate:
and moreover to vest in trustees such a part of mine in Lancashire, as shall produce a clear
four hundred pounds a year, to be paid to your sole and separate use quarterly.

'My own estate is a clear not nominnal 2000l. per annum.  Lord M. proposes to give me possession
either of that which he has in Lancashire, [to which, by the way, I think I have a better title
than he has himself,] or that we call The Lawn, in Hertfordshire, upon my nuptials with a lady
whom he so greatly admires; and to make that I shall choose a clear 1000l. per annum.

'My too great contempt of censure has subjected me to much slander.  It may not therefore be
improper to assure you, on the word of a gentleman, that no part of my estate was ever mortgaged:
and that although I lived very expensively abroad, and made large draughts, yet that Midsummer-day
next will discharge all that I owe in the world.  My notions are not all bad ones.  I have
been thought, in pecuniary cases, generous.  It would have deserved another name, had I not
first been just.

'If, as your own estate is at present in your father's hands, you rather choose that I should
make a jointure out of mine, tantamount to yours, be it what it will, it shall be done.  I
will engage Lord M. to write to you, what he proposes to do on the happy occasion: not as your
desire or expectation, but to demonstrate, that no advantage is intended to be taken of the
situation you are in with your own family.

'To shew the beloved daughter the consideration I have for her, I will consent that she shall
prescribe the terms of agreement in relation to the large sums, which must be in her father's
hands, arising from her grandfather's estate.  I have no doubt, but he will be put upon making
large demands upon you.  All those it shall be in your power to comply with,  for the sake
of your own peace.  And the remainder shall be paid into your hands, and be entirely at your
disposal, as a fund to support those charitable donations, which I have heard you so famed
for our of your family, and for which you have been so greatly reflected upon in it.

'As to clothes, jewels, and the like, against the time you shall choose to make your appearance,
it will be my pride that you shall not be beholden for such of these, as shall be answerable
to the rank of both, to those who have had the stupid folly to renounce a daughter they deserved
not.  You must excuse me, Madam: you would mistrust my sincerity in the rest, could I speak
of these people without asperity, though so nearly related to you.

'These, Madam, are my proposals.  They are such as I always designed to make, whenever you
would permit me to enter into the delightful subject. But you have been so determined to try
every method for reconciling yourself to your relations, even by giving me absolutely up for
ever, that you seemed to think it but justice to keep me at a distance, till the event of that
your predominant hope could be seen.  It is now seen! --and although I have been, and perhaps
still am, ready to regret the want of that preference I wished for from you as Miss Clarissa
Harlowe, yet I am sure, as the husband of Mrs. Lovelace, I shall be more ready to adore than
to blame you for the pangs you have given to a heart, the generosity, or rather, the justice
of which, my implacable enemies have taught you to doubt: and this still the readier, as I
am persuaded that those pangs never would have been given by a mind so noble, had not the doubt
been entertained (perhaps with too great an appearance of reason); and as I hope I shall have
it to reflect, that the moment the doubt shall be overcome, the indifference will cease.

'I will only add, that if I have omitted any thing, that would have given you farther satisfaction;
or if the above terms be short of what you would wish; you will be pleased to supply them as
you think fit.  And when I know your pleasure, I will instantly order articles to be drawn
up comformably, that nothing in my power may be wanting to make you happy.

'You will now, dearest Madam, judge, how far all the rest depends upon yourself.'

You see, my dear, what he offers.  You see it is all my fault, that he has not made these offers
before.  I am a strange creature!--to be to blame in every thing, and to every body; yet neither
intend the ill at the time, nor know it to be the ill too late, or so nearly too late, that
I must give up all the delicacy he talks of, to compound for my fault!

I shall now judge how far the rest depends upon myself!  So coldly concludes he such warm,
and, in the main, unobjectionably proposals: Would you not, as you read, have supposed, that
the paper would conclude with the most earnest demand of a day?--I own, I had that expectation
so strong, resulting naturally, as I may say, from the premises, that without studying for
dissatisfaction, I could not help being dissatisfied when I came to the conclusion.

But you say there is no help.  I must perhaps make further sacrifices. All delicacy it seems
is to be at an end with me!--but, if so, this man knows not what every wise man knows, that
prudence, and virtue, and delicacy of mind in a wife, do the husband more real honour in the
eye of the world, than the same qualities (were she destitute of them) in himself, do him:
as the want of them in her does him more dishonour: For are not the wife's errors the husband's
reproach? how justly his reproach, is another thing.

I will consider this paper; and write to it, if I am able: for it seems now, all the rest depends
upon myself.

LETTER XXXIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE WEDNESDAY MORNING, MAY 17.

Mr. Lovelace would fain have engaged me last night.  But as I was not prepared to enter upon
the subject of his proposals, (intending to consider them maturely,) and was not highly pleased
with his conclusion, I desired to be excused seeing him till morning; and the rather, as there
is hardly any getting from him in tolerable time overnight.

Accordingly, about seven o'clock we met in the dining-room.

I find he was full of expectation that I should meet him with a very favourable, who knows
but with a thankful, aspect? and I immediately found by his sullen countenance, that he was
under no small disappointment that I did not.

My dearest love, are you well?  Why look you so solemn upon me?  Will your indifference never
be over?  If I have proposed terms in any respect short of your expectation--

I told him, that he had very considerately mentioned my shewing his proposals to Miss Howe;
and as I should have a speedy opportunity to send them to her by Collins, I desired to suspend
any talk upon that subject till I had her opinion upon them.

Good God!--If there was but the least loop-hole! the least room for delay!--But he was writing
a letter to Lord M. to give him an account of his situation with me, and could not finish it
so satisfactorily, either to my Lord or to himself, as if I would condescend to say, whether
the terms he had proposed were acceptable, or not.

Thus far, I told him, I could say, that my principal point was peace and reconciliation with
my relations.  As to other matters, the gentleness of his own spirit would put him upon doing
more for me than I should ask, or expect.  Wherefore, if all he had to write about was to know
what Lord M. would do on my account, he might spare himself the trouble, for that my utmost
wishes, as to myself, were much more easily gratified than he perhaps imagined.

He asked me then, if I would so far permit him to touch upon the happy day, as to request the
presence of Lord M. on the occasion, and to be my father?

Father had a sweet and venerable sound with it, I said.  I should be glad to have a father
who would own me!

Was not this plain speaking, think you, my dear?  Yet it rather, I must own, appears so to
me on reflection, than was designed freely at the time.  For I then, with a sigh from the bottom
of my heart, thought of my own father; bitterly regretting, that I am an outcast from him and
from my mother.

Mr. Lovelace I thought seemed a little affected at the manner of my speaking, and perhaps at
the sad reflection.

I am but a very young creature, Mr. Lovelace, said I, [and wiped my eyes as I turned away my
face,] although you have kindly, and in love to me, introduced so much sorry to me already:
so you must not wonder, that the word father strikes so sensibly upon the heart of a child
ever dutiful till she knew you, and whose tender years still require the paternal wing.

He turned towards the window--[rejoice with me, my dear, since I seem to be devoted to him,
that the man is not absolutely impenetrable!]  His emotion was visible; yet he endeavoured
to suppress it.  Approaching me again; again he was obliged to turn from me; angelic something,
he said: but then, obtaining a heart more suitable to his wish, he once more approached me.--For
his own part, he said, as Lord M. was so subject to gout, he was afraid, that the compliment
he had just proposed to make him, might, if made, occasion a larger suspension than he could
bear to think of; and if it did, it would vex him to the heart that he had made it.

I could not say a single word to this, you know, my dear.  But you will guess at my thoughts
of what he said--so much passionate love, lip-deep! so prudent, and so dutifully patient at
heart to a relation he had till now so undutifully despised!--Why, why, am I thrown upon such
a man, thought I!

He hesitated, as if contending with himself; and after taking a turn or two about the room,
He was at a great loss what to determine upon, he said, because he had not the honour of knowing
when he was to be made the happiest of men--Would to God it might that very instant be resolved
upon!

He stopped a moment or two, staring in his usual confident way, in my downcast face, [Did I
not, O my beloved friend, think you, want a father or a mother just then?]  But if he could
not, so soon as he wished, procure my consent to a day; in that case, he thought the compliment
might as well be made to Lord M. as not, [See, my dear!] since the settlements might be drawn
and engrossed in the intervenient time, which would pacify his impatience, as no time would
be lost.

You will suppose how I was affected by this speech, by repeating the substance of what he said
upon it; as follows.

But, by his soul, he knew not, so much was I upon the reserve, and so much latent meaning did
my eye import, whether, when he most hoped to please me, he was not farthest from doing so.
Would I vouchsafe to say, whether I approved of his compliment to Lord M. or not?

To leave it to me, to choose whether the speedy day he ought to have urged for with earnestness,
should be accelerated or suspended!--Miss Howe, thought I, at that moment, says, I must not
run away from this man!

To be sure, Mr. Lovelace, if this matter be ever to be, it must be agreeable to me to have
the full approbation of one side, since I cannot have that of the other.

If this matter be ever to be!  Good God! what words are these at this time of day! and full
approbation of one side!  Why that word approbation? when the greatest pride of all my family
is, that of having the honour of so dear a creature for their relation?  Would to heaven, my
dearest life, added he, that, without complimenting any body, to-morrow might be the happiest
day of my life!--What say you, my angel? with a trembling impatience, that seemed not affected--What
say you for to-morrow?

It was likely, my dear, I could say much to it, or name another day, had I been disposed to
the latter, with such an hinted delay from him.

I was silent.

Next day, Madam, if not to-morrow?--

Had he given me time to answer, it could not have been in the affirmative, you must think--but,
in the same breath, he went on--Or the day after that?--and taking both my hands in his, he
stared me into a half-confusion--Would you have had patience with him, my dear?

No, no, said I, as calmly as possible, you cannot think that I should imagine there can be
reason for such a hurry.  It will be most agreeable, to be sure, for my Lord to be present.

I am all obedience and resignation, returned the wretch, with a self- pluming air, as if he
had acquiesced to a proposal made by me, and had complimented me with a great piece of self denial.

Is it not plain, my dear, that he designs to vex and tease me?  Proud, yet mean and foolish
man, if so!--But you say all punctilio is at an end with me.  Why, why, will he take pains
to make a heart wrap itself up in reserve, that wishes only, and that for his sake as well
as my own, to observe due decorum?

Modesty, I think, required of me, that it should pass as he had put it: Did it not?--I think
it did.  Would to heaven--but what signifies wishing?

But when he would have rewarded himself, as he had heretofore called it, for this self-supposed
concession, with a kiss, I repulsed him with a just and very sincere disdain.

He seemed both vexed and surprised, as one who had made the most agreeable proposals and concessions,
and thought them ungratefully returned.  He plainly said, that he thought our situation would
entitle him to such an innocent freedom: and he was both amazed and grieved to be thus scornfully
repulsed.

No reply could be made be me on such a subject.

I abruptly broke from him.  I recollect, as I passed by one of the pier- glasses, that I saw
in it his clenched hand offered in wrath to his forehead: the words, Indifference, by his soul,
next to hatred, I heard him speak; and something of ice he mentioned: I heard not what.

Whether he intends to write to my Lord, or Miss Montague, I cannot tell. But, as all delicacy
ought to be over with me now, perhaps I am to blame to expect it from a man who may not know
what it is.  If he does not, and yet thinks himself very polite, and intends not to be otherwise,
I am rather to be pitied, than he to be censured.

And after all, since I must take him as I find him, I must: that is to say, as a man so vain
and so accustomed to be admired, that, not being conscious of internal defect, he has taken
no pains to polish more than his outside: and as his proposals are higher than my expectations;
and as, in his own opinion, he has a great deal to bear from me, I will (no new offence preventing)
sit down to answer them; and, if possible, in terms as unobjectionable to him, as his are to me.

But after all, see you not, my dear, more and more, the mismatch that there is in our minds?

However, I am willing to compound for my fault, by giving up, (if that may be all my punishment)
the expectation of what is deemed happiness in this life, with such a husband as I fear he
will make.  In short, I will content myself to be a suffering person through the state to the
end of my life.--A long one it cannot be!

This may qualify him (as it may prove) from stings of conscience from misbehaviour to a first
wife, to be a more tolerable one to a second, though not perhaps a better deserving one: while
my story, to all who shall know it, will afford these instructions: That the eye is a traitor,
and ought ever to be mistrusted: that form is deceitful: in other words; that a fine person
is seldom paired by a fine mind: and that sound principle and a good heart, are the only bases
on which the hopes of a happy future, either with respect to this world, or the other, can
be built.

And so much at present for Mr. Lovelace's proposals: Of which I desire your opinion.*

* We cannot forbear observing in this place, that the Lady has been particularly censured,
even by some of her own sex, as over-nice in her part of the above conversations: but surely
this must be owing to want of attention to the circumstances she was in, and to her character,
as well as to the character of the man she had to deal with: for, although she could not be
supposed to know so much of his designs as the reader does by means of his letters to Belford,
yet she was but too well convinced of his faulty morals, and of the necessity there was, from
the whole of his behaviour to her, to keep such an encroacher, as she frequently calls him,
at a distance.  In Letter XXXIII. of Vol. III. the reader will see, that upon some favourable
appearances she blames herself for her readiness to suspect him.  But his character, his principles,
said she, are so faulty!--He is so light, so vain, so various.----Then, my dear, I have no
guardian to depend upon.  In Letter IX. of Vol. III. Must I not with such a man, says she,
be wanting to myself, were I not jealous and vigilant?

By this time the reader will see, that she had still greater reason for her jealousy and vigilance.
And Lovelace will tell the sex, as he does in Letter XI. of Vol. V., that the woman who resents
not initiatory freedoms, must be lost.  Love is an encroacher, says he: loves never goes backward.
Nothing but the highest act of love can satisfy an indulged love.

But the reader perhaps is too apt to form a judgment of Clarissa's conduct in critical cases
by Lovelace's complaints of her coldness; not considering his views upon her; and that she
is proposed as an example; and therefore in her trials and distresses must not be allowed to
dispense with those rules which perhaps some others of the sex, in her delicate situation,
would not have thought themselves so strictly bound to observe; although, if she had not observed
them, a Lovelace would have carried all his points.

[Four letters are written by Mr. Lovelace from the date of his last,
   giving the state of affairs between him and the Lady, pretty much the
   same as in hers in the same period, allowing for the humour in his,
   and for his resentments expressed with vehemence on her resolution to
   leave him, if her friends could be brought to be reconciled to her.--
   A few extracts from them will be only given.]

What, says he, might have become of me, and of my projects, had not her father, and the rest
of the implacables, stood my friends?

[After violent threatenings of revenge, he says,]

'Tis plain she would have given me up for ever: nor should I have been able to prevent her
abandoning of me, unless I had torn up the tree by the roots to come at the fruit; which I
hope still to bring down by a gentle shake or two, if I can but have patience to stay the ripening
seasoning.

[Thus triumphing in his unpolite cruelty, he says,]

After her haughty treatment of me, I am resolved she shall speak out. There are a thousand
beauties to be discovered in the face, in the accent, in the bush-beating hesitations of a
woman who is earnest about a subject she wants to introduce, yet knows not how.  Silly fellows,
calling themselves generous ones, would value themselves for sparing a lady's confusion: but
they are silly fellows indeed; and rob themselves of prodigious pleasure by their forwardness;
and at the same time deprive her of displaying a world of charms, which can only be manifested
on these occasions.

I'll tell thee beforehand, how it will be with my charmer in this case-- she will be about
it, and about it, several times: but I will not understand her: at least, after half a dozen
hem--ings, she will be obliged to speak out--I think, Mr. Lovelace--I think, Sir--I think you
were saying some days ago--Still I will be all silence--her eyes fixed upon my shoe-buckles,
as I sit over-against her--ladies when put to it thus, always admire a man's shoe-buckles,
or perhaps some particular beauties in the carpet.  I think you said that Mrs. Fretchville--Then
a crystal tear trickles down each crimson cheek, vexed to have her virgin pride so little assisted.
But, come, my meaning dear, cry I to myself, remember what I have suffered for thee, and what
I have suffered by thee! Thy tearful pausings shall not be helped out by me.  Speak out, love!--O
the sweet confusion!  Can I rob myself of so many conflicting beauties by the precipitate charmer-pitying
folly, by which a politer man [thou knowest, lovely, that I am no polite man!] betrayed by
his own tenderness, and unused to female tears, would have been overcome?  I will feign an
irresolution of mind on the occasion, that she may not quite abhor me--that her reflections
on the scene in my absence may bring to her remembrance some beauties  in my part of it: an
irresolution that will be owing to awe, to reverence, to profound veneration; and that will
have more eloquence in it than words can have.  Speak out then, love, and spare not.

Hard-heartedness, as it is called, is an essential of the libertine's character.  Familiarized
to the distresses he occasions, he is seldom betrayed by tenderness into a complaisant weakness
unworthy of himself.

[Mentioning the settlements, he says,]

I am in earnest as to the terms.  If I marry her, [and I have no doubt that I shall, after
my pride, my ambition, my revenge, if thou wilt, is gratified,] I will do her noble justice.
The more I do for such a prudent, such an excellent economist, the more shall I do for myself.--
But, by my soul, Belford, her haughtiness shall be brought down to own both love and obligation
to me.  Nor will this sketch of settlements bring us forwarder than I would have it.  Modesty
of sex will stand my friend at any time.  At the very altar, our hands joined, I will engage
to make this proud beauty leave the parson and me, and all my friends who should be present,
though twenty in number, to look like fools upon one another, while she took wing, and flew
out of the church door, or window, (if that were open, and the door shut); and this only by
a single word.

[He mentions his rash expression, That she should be his, although his
   damnation was to be the purchase.]

At that instant, says he, I was upon the point of making a violent attempt, but was checked
in the very moment, and but just in time to save myself, by the awe I was struck with on again
casting my eye upon her terrified but lovely face, and seeing, as I thought, her spotless heart
in every line of it.

[He paints in lively colours, that part of the scene between him and the
   Lady, where she says, The word father has a sweet and venerable sound
   with it.]

I was exceedingly affected, says he, upon the occasion, but was ashamed to be surprised into
such a fit of unmanly weakness--so ashamed, that I was resolved to subdue it at the instant,
and to guard against the like for the future.  Yet, at that moment, I more than half regretted
that I could not permit her to enjoy a triumph which she so well deserved to glory in--her
youth, her beauty, her artless innocence, and her manner, equally beyond comparison or description.
But her indifference, Belford! --That she could resolve to sacrifice me to the malice of my
enemies; and carry on the design in so clandestine a manner--and yet love her, as I do, to
phrensy!--revere her, as I do, to adoration!--These were the recollections with which I fortified
my recreant heart against her!--Yet, after all, if she persevere, she must conquer!--Coward,
as she has made me, that never was a coward before!

[He concludes his fourth letter in a vehement rage, upon her repulsing
   him, when he offered to salute her; having supposed, as he owns, that
   she would have been all condescension on his proposals to her.]

This, says he, I will for ever remember against her, in order to steel my heart, that I may
cut through a rock of ice to hers; and repay her for the disdain, the scorn, which glowed in
her countenance, and was apparent in her air, at her abrupt departure for me, after such obliging
behaviour on my side, and after I had so earnestly pressed her for an early day. The women
below say she hates me; she despises me!--And 'tis true: she does; she must.--And why cannot
I take their advice?  I will not long, my fair-one, be despised by thee, and laughed at by them!

Let me acquaint thee, Jack, adds he, by way of postscript, that this effort of hers to leave
me, if she could have been received; her sending for a coach on Sunday; no doubt, resolving
not to return, if she had gone out without me, (for did she not declare that she had thoughts
to retire to some of the villages about town, where she could be safe and private?) have, all
together, so much alarmed me, that I have been adding to the written instructions for my fellow
and the people below how to act in case she should elope in my absence: particularly letting
Will. know what he shall report to strangers in case she shall throw herself upon any such
with a resolution to abandon me.  To these instructions I shall further add as circumstances offer.

LETTER XXXIV

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE THURSDAY, MAY 18.

I have neither time nor patience, my dear friend, to answer every material article in your
last letters just now received.  Mr. Lovelace's proposals are all I like of him.  And yet (as
you do) I think, that he concludes them not with the warmth and earnestness which we might
naturally have expected from him.  Never in my life did I hear or read of so patient a man,
with such a blessing in his reach.  But wretches of his cast, between you and me, my dear,
have not, I fancy, the ardors that honest men have. Immediately after the manufacture significant value contained
in the products of the vineyards (soft white wines and estimated) of timber extraction in the extensive
mountain forests (pine, fir, beech and oak), the raising of cattle very significant,
in the natural meadows, and cereal crops, fruit trees, etc. Trade
was active, and the Canton not only has the navigation of the lakes and
good roads, but maintains communications to France and the other counties
by four railroads. The main centers of Canton, as I indicated, are:
Neuchâtel, the capital, which has about 10.300 inhabitants - has
its focus city where the small Conservative Party or aristocratic
Chaux-de-Fonds, 14.500, (beautiful town that is the center of radicalism
and of the working press of Canton, and which holds more extensive
relations with France) and Locle, which has 8.800 inhabitants.

For example, three locations nomas meet 38% of the cantonal population, a fact that occurs in
greater or lesser extent in all States manufacturers or producers, where is inevitable concentration
of large masses of workers, especially when land is scarce or are in a few hands. The height
of these three cities is very different: thus, Neuchâtel on sea
level is 480 meters at its highest, while Le Locle and Chaux-de-Fonds,
located in the mountainous region, are respectively 921 and 1,000
meters in elevation.

Locle mainly manufactures clocks and lace. Chaux-de-Fonds a city of considerable movement and
that few times has been the asylum, as Geneva of French exiles. He constantly hears the sound of
a thousand hammers and everything is active in the workshops and forges.
Perhaps their greatest progress and rare perfection and promptness
in the manufacture depend mainly on the division of labor, brought
there to its ultimate consequences.

Each worker works in a single operation, more or less straightforward, so a clock or clock represents
the support of hundreds of workers. They work in their homes for work, to shop or Bakery, without neglecting
their families and building on contest them.

Your personal independence is as evident as their morality.

And sinembargo of independence and division, like clockwork is composed of so many pieces, it
introduces a complication solidarity or community of interests of all workers. Perhaps one of
these watches is the best manifestation of the profound truth of the harmony of things and the societies
that coexist perfectly reconciles and makes man's personality and social solidarity, wherever
freedom allows and encourages the full action of the law of nature. In fact, this situation results
in Chaux-de-Fonds this remarkable fact: that in any case an industrial
or commercial crisis also affects to all employers and workers, making
common misfortune, as in the boom years is common advantage.

In this way capital can not give the bill to pay, or vice versa, and their relations are of legitimate
interest based on free competition and the independence and dignity
of work.

Is this the case indicate a feature of many of the cantons, or nearly all the Swiss people, offering
the means of sweetening the situation of workers in times of crisis. In Switzerland the political
organization has followed the logical and natural movement of the laws social chair to clustering,
- very unlike France and other nations where the state, taking it
all, has made the district (the reality) a purely administrative fiction,
and the nation a cause rather than an effect. In Switzerland, the district
is more common or that the fundamental basis of political society,
is society itself.

Districts, enjoying autonomy primitive and natural, are agglomerated
to become stronger, forming the Canton or State, and not to limit
or abdicate its own vitality.

The cantons, after many years and even centuries of full sovereignty by aligning their interests
under the terms of nationality, have confederated to narrow and simplify
their relationships, ensuring a certain solidarity and enforced as
a power.

But in reality life is a Swiss citizen in the community district. That is where he feels
truly sovereign (in their respective part) by society adhered to the rights,
duties and interests, and active member of a fraternity.

The political rights and duties relating to the Confederation are common throughout it, without
distinction of address, but the Swiss Zurich, Bern or Geneva, but linked to that of Chaux-de-Fonds
for those links, it is really strange to the community neuchâtelesa, while not accepting the
local commitment. There the neighboring community is much more than
the Confederate citizen because the neighbors are truly a family.
Everyone has the duty of ordinary residence, to serve the district
in a way, constantly contributing to the relief common fund or mutual
insurers.

And each one has the right, in case of illness, disability, poverty
or lack of work, to obtain direct and effective protection of the
community.

Thus, each of these districts is in rigor and of itself a democratic
republic, free in his inner life, while a mutual insurance association,
without that obstetricians so that citizens are keenly interested
in the prosperity of Canton and the Confederation.

* * * * * The city of Neuchâtel, located at the mouth of Seyon, delay
in considerable mountainside and mountainous which is one of the largest
eastern spurs of the Jura chain, and rises in funny amphitheaters, after
covering a narrow strip of flat land on the banks of the lake.

Few cities in Europe I've met so picturesque and full of whim and
Neuchâtel, which some compare their situation to Naples.

Tight on the banks of luxury woods, that when looking at the waves and terraces shaded beaches,
and crowned on top by garlands of beautiful gardens and thick festoons
of vine, looks like a city bathhouses and recreational planted in
the bottom of a garden, rich in color and lulled by the sounds of
the lake and generous breezes of the mountains that dominate it. and
yet, if you look at particular features, covering the inside are two
different types.

In the flat, down along the shore, whither ye find cheerful ports appear in numerous little boats,
in one of those fireplaces they smoke and fumes are piled yachts and
trailer full of goods. There you can see streets spacious, clean,
well graded, fine houses, beautiful hotels, monumental buildings, colorful
shops and bustling cafes, in short, modern and comfortable.

If echais walking toward the suburbs, find the roads that serve as highways and walks, bordered
by beautiful villas in the artistic taste of the architecture matches the magnificence of the
gardens and grace of small parks. If penetrais in the old part, which starts at the very base of the
mountain and then climbs uneven steps, find severe side streets, winding alleys and slopes, construction
of semi-Gothic style, industry workshops, traditional sources of strange shape and topped by
stone giants very characteristic, representing the fifteenth century soldiers armed to the teeth
. Finally, on top of a rocky hill, the old feudal castle, curious monument established in the XIII
century by one of the counts Berthold, and his side almost the cathedral
(the strength of the clergy), Gothic-style building of the second
period, founded in the tenth century and rebuilt in the XII.

Beyond these curious monuments, modern Neuchâtel has several that
are well esteemed for its architecture and its object.

I will quote between the beautiful Municipal House, the Hospital of the
city, the Pourtalès (named after its founder), universal service, the
Temple-new and the Gym. This contains the cantonal school and a beautiful
museum particularly interesting for its Swiss natural history collections,
where the animals are in the attitude of life and according to their
customs.

That little town (which has produced remarkable artists as Calame, Moritz and Osterwald, especially
in the construction of scenarios in relief) contains private collections of paintings that
are very valuable, and noting in addition to what I have indicated, by its two public libraries,
school, normal, excellent savings bank, Biblical and Philharmonic society, and many free schools
and charitable institutions and credit. To complete idea of the beauty of those regions, nothing
better than the ascent to the summit of the mountain of Chaumont,
which rises to 1.772 meters above the sea, or is 1.340 on the lake.

A small carriage, drawn by a beautiful mare brought us the excellent road that skirts the hill
prancing to the top and extends through the bottom of a valley to
La Chaux-de-Fonds.

To a very considerable height narrowing the road turns little by little , amidst thick forests
of fir and pine colossal dark background in which it is not endless columns of bare masts under
the high layer of vegetable that sunlight can not penetrate. Here and there were tears the dense forest,
leaving small spaces glimpse of the wonderful panorama that develops
NN-E. But look scarcely tends to behold when the immense curtain
of greenery closes again, and instead of the glaciers and mountains,
lakes and valleys and plains far glimpsed for a second, turns to go
around to a the dense forest of pine, fir, beech and small oaks.

Toward the summit the forest drops and clears, and small prairie natural grass grow as beautiful carpet,
dotted with beautiful flowers of a thousand shades and groves of hazelnut dwarfs, and aspire
with infinite delight of the mountain breezes, laden with aromas
unknown.

The scene is viewed from the more lofty site of Chaumont , called the signal is so grand, so vast and
supremely beautiful, it is almost impossible to describe. In the West rise Jura chains covered with
rich vegetation and high meadows, interspersed with smiling valleys of careful cultivation, among
which is clearly visible on one side or the Seyon Ruz. Al S., N. and E. referred to the prodigious
nursery snowy and colossal mountains that extends from Mount Titlis-Blanco until, that is the most beautiful
region of the Alps, most of the canton of Vaud and Bern bottom is called
the Oberland (country level). In N. and N.-E. records all the hilly
region of plains and low mountains occupy the cantons of Bern, Solera,
Aargau, Lucerne and Fribourg, - the country's most picturesque and
varied aspect, which has the Aar as hydrographic center.

And basically, at the foot of the great mountain, admiring the quiet beauty of the lakes of
Neuchâtel, Biel and Murten, whose banks, populated by vineyards, villages and farms have a green
ink melancholy, and whose waves rippled by the wind and burned by the sun of the afternoon, he
could see it floating vapor clouds, like butterflies and the white
sails of the boats that sail there.

He has all the immense panorama conditions that constitute the complex
beauty, all possible contrasts in the European nature: the greatness
and smallness, majesty and charm, strength and softness, the radiant
light and deep shadows, bright colors and inks melancholy, the sadness
of eternal winter of ice and the brightness of the vegetation of summer,
the wonders of God's hand and evidence of genius and the activity
of Man .... Throughout Switzerland seems to develop all their finery
and all his natural horrors in this table consists of thousands of
landscapes.

Such is the beauty of the show that night we went to surprise on the top of Chaumont, whose
admirable viewpoint would not leave. We were ready to continue our tour, heading to Neuchatel to Bern
by way of Murten and Fribourg, when the clarion of postilion told us that
the coach was about to leave. In Switzerland, the service posts and
steps on the road is monopolized by the federal and cantonal, depending
on the nature of the road.

Each canton has its own railway roads and steps, rotating from border to border treaties or
combined. As the routes to be traveled from one city to another are so short, the proceedings
shall occur and renewed in each capital, and vehicles (as required by the strong waves of
a territory as mountainous) are much less cumbersome and bulky than
those used in Spain, Italy and other countries.

None of the characteristics of Spanish diligence essentially barbarous, is at in Switzerland. Two
or three beautiful indigenous horses, strong, sturdy and patients make the shot, and the costumes
are light and funny. The postilion above all is a funny guy for his attitude and official uniform,
they seem to amalgamate the military and the harlequin. A tight pants,
blue cloth with yellow stripes, which reaches to the knees and fits
under two large patent leather boots, a yellow vest or red cloth on
which is a microscopic sucks tailed, lined with wide lapels and cuffs big
red and shiny metal buttons, a patent leather or felt hat, cup long,
narrow, pointed and trimmed, a very long whip, and a bugle slung at his
side, up the dress and the trappings of the Prince of diligence Switzerland.

That odd uniform, leading to laugh, in contrast to the military and some serious air of stocky character
who from his throne atop street is announced to arrive at the locations or out of, and relay stations,
with taps acute and prolonged his bugle to his whip rattles that
produce strange echoes in the mountains and forests of the way.

For
the rest, the postilion Swiss, who understand that your guy is a public
official, it is noted for his kindness, intelligence in the conduct
of the vehicle and the regularity of all events, free of brutality.

The Swiss official so at all scales: friendly, polite, laconic, full and faithful to his motto.
There is some regularity and precision reminiscent of the soldier (because in Switzerland, everyone
is bound to military service), as is polite in his bearing something that keeps the rate of the
free citizen, educated by the principle of equality. The road , Neuchâtel after leaving town
for a suburb of beautiful villas and gardens gay, skirting the lake
shore in the direction to the north, bends to N.-E., crosses the
river Thiele (artery of reunion between two large vessels of the body
hydrography of the country), cuts the narrow isthmus between the marshy
lakes média (Neuchâtel and Biel) and begins to climb, towards the
E., a succession of wooded hills and inclines, nearly dawning the
northern end of Lake Morat .

Except in the flat part of the isthmus, always exposed to floods, the cultivation of the vine
is almost exclusively low elevation on the banks of these lakes. The horizon is long and melancholy
here, especially at the twilight of the evening, resulting in the three lakes reflect soft, whose
poetry encouraged to quit wandering spirit in the world of dreams sweetly sad. The three lakes,
have to each other very analogous in appearance, are navigated by steamers, boats and feluccas.
The Biel (Bieler-See), almost all contained in Bernese territory, is unique in its graceful island
of San-Pedro resident who illustrated with the immortal utopian John
Jacob, in 1765.

Biena length does not exceed 14 km 3-1/2 latitude, with 434 meters
above sea level and 70 deep. Smiling for the color of its waters and
picturesque aspect of its banks lined with vineyards, in the bottom of
which stand out as some wayward suburban locations, many groups of beautiful
country houses, the lake is sinembargo severe and majestic in the lower
region watershed, for the superb semi-circle, sharp as a huge, colossal
rampart, forming the mountains of Jura S.-O. to N.-O. Lake Morat (or
Murten-See), separate from Neuchâtel scarcely a mountain and some
rolling plains, measures just 7.795 meters long, 3.186 latitude, 52
deep and about 23 kilometers in circumference.

It is only riparian the cantons of Fribourg and Vaud. By covering his eyes all the three lakes,
one can not but notice the intimate fraternity that binds in a system.

Such is the character of as many of the lakes first and second computer located in Switzerland.
Some breed to another, multiplying the life and the charms of nature.
No wonder that the Swiss people imitate their institutions and customs
with the variety and the brotherhood of nature.

Here everything is different, and yet everything blends and binds admirable
groups such as the Alps and the elaborate game of hydrography. It is on
the eastern or right bank of the lake Morat it takes the village or small town
of the same name (about 1.800 inhabitants), built on a hill top.

The lower part is riparian or industrial and commercial. The high
is a curious and original, the streets of massive arches, dark and heavy,
old frame houses, semi-feudal and secular history sources, analogous
to in Neuchâtel. Morat origin is closely linked to ancient and heroic
traditions, and renowned for the famous battle won in its vicinity,
in June 1476, the confederates of Berne, Fribourg, Basel and other
regions, against the mighty army of Charles the Bold - battle that
secured the independence of these peoples with respect to the Dukes
of Burgundy.


   Among other things, he says--]

I pass my time here at Watford, attending my dying uncle, very heavily. I cannot therefore,
by any means, dispense with thy correspondence.  And why shouldst thou punish me, for having
more conscience and more remorse than thyself?  Thou who never thoughtest either conscience
or remorse an honour to thee.  And I have, besides, a melancholy story to tell thee, in relation
to Belton and his Thomasine; and which may afford a lesson to all the keeping-class.

I have a letter from each of our three companions in the time.  They have all the wickedness
that thou hast, but not the wit.  Some new rogueries do two of them boast of, which, I think,
if completed, deserve the gallows.

I am far from hating intrigue upon principle.  But to have awkward fellows plot, and commit
their plots to paper, destitute of the seasonings, of the acumen, which is thy talent, how
extremely shocking must their letters be!--But do thou, Lovelace, whether thou art, or art
not, determined upon thy measures with regard to the fine lady in thy power, enliven my heavy
heart by thy communications; and thou wilt oblige

Thy melancholy friend, J. BELFORD.

LETTER XXXVII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. FRIDAY NIGHT, MAY 19.

When I have opened my view to thee so amply as I have done in my former letters; and have told
thee, that my principal design is but to bring virtue to a trial, that, if virtue, it need
not be afraid of; and that the reward of it will be marriage (that is to say, if, after I have
carried my point, I cannot prevail upon her to live with me the life of honour;* for that thou
knowest is the wish of my heart); I am amazed at the repetition of thy wambling nonsense.

* See Vol. III. Letter XVIII.

I am of opinion with thee, that some time hence, when I am grown wiser, I shall conclude, that
there is nothing but vanity, conceit, and nonsense, in my present wild schemes.  But what is
this saying, but that I must be first wiser?

I do not intend to let this matchless creature slide through my fingers.

Art thou able to say half the things in her praise, that I have said, and am continually saying
or writing?

Her gloomy father cursed the sweet creature, because she put it out of his wicked power to
compel her to have the man she hated.  Thou knowest how little merit she has with me on this
score.--And shall I not try the virtue I intended, upon full proof, to reward, because her
father is a tyrant?--Why art thou thus eternally reflecting upon so excellent a woman, as if
thou wert assured she would fail in the trial?--Nay, thou declarest, every time thou writest
on the subject, that she will, that she must yield, entangled as she is: and yet makest her
virtue the pretence of thy solicitude for her.

An instrument of the vile James Harlowe, dost thou call me?--O Jack! how could I curse thee!--I
am instrument of that brother! of that sister! But mark the end--and thou shalt see what will
become of that brother, and of that sister!

Play not against me my own acknowledged sensibilities, I desire thee. Sensibilities, which
at the same time that they contradict thy charge of an adamantine heart in thy friend, thou
hadst known nothing of, had I not communicated them to thee.

If I ruin such a virtue, sayest thou!--Eternal monotonist!--Again; the most immaculate virtue
may be ruined by men who have no regard to their honour, and who make a jest of the most solemn
oaths, &c.  What must be the virtue that will be ruined without oaths?  Is not the world full
of these deceptions?  And are not lovers' oaths a jest of hundreds of years' standing?  And
are not cautions against the perfidy of our sex a necessary part of the female education?

I do intend to endeavour to overcome myself; but I must first try, if I cannot overcome this
lady.  Have I not said, that the honour of her sex is concerned that I should try?

Whenever thou meetest with a woman of but half her perfections, thou wilt marry--Do, Jack.

Can a girl be degraded by trials, who is not overcome?

I am glad that thou takest crime to thyself, for not endeavouring to convert the poor wretches
whom others have ruined.  I will not recriminate upon thee, Belford, as I might, when thou
flatterest thyself that thou never ruinedst the morals of any young creature, who otherwise
would not have been corrupted--the palliating consolation of an Hottentot heart, determined
rather to gluttonize on the garbage of other foul feeders than to reform.--But tell me, Jack,
wouldst thou have spared such a girl as my Rosebud, had I not, by my example, engaged thy generosity?
Nor was my Rosebud the only girl I spared:--When my power was acknowledged, who more merciful
than thy friend?

      It is resistance that inflames desire,
      Sharpens the darts of love, and blows its fire.
      Love is disarm'd that meets with too much ease;
      He languishes, and does not care to please.

The women know this as well as the men.  They love to be addressed with spirit:

      And therefore 'tis their golden fruit they guard
      With so much care, to make profession hard.

Whence, for a by-reflection, the ardent, the complaisant gallant is so often preferred to the
cold, the unadoring husband.  And yet the sex do not consider, that variety and novelty give
the ardour and the obsequiousness; and that, were the rake as much used to them as the husband
is, he would be [and is to his own wife, if married] as indifferent to their favours, as their
husbands are; and the husband, in his turn, would, to another woman, be the rake.  Let the
women, upon the whole, take this lesson from a Lovelace--'Always to endeavour to make themselves
as new to a husband, and to appear as elegant and as obliging to him, as they are desirous
to appear to a lover, and actually were to him as such; and then the rake, which all women
love, will last longer in the husband, than it generally does.'

But to return:--If I have not sufficiently cleared my conduct to thee in the above; I refer
thee once more to mine of the 13th of last month.* And pr'ythee, Jack, lay me not under a necessity
to repeat the same things so often.  I hope thou readest what I write more than once.

* See Vol. II. Letter XIV.

I am not displeased that thou art so apprehensive of my resentment, that I cannot miss a day
without making thee uneasy.  Thy conscience, 'tis plain, tells thee, that thou has deserved
my displeasure: and if it has convinced thee of that, it will make thee afraid of repeating
thy fault. See that this be the consequence.  Else, now that thou hast told me how I can punish
thee, it is very likely that I do punish thee by my silence, although I have as much pleasure
in writing on this charming subject, as thou canst have in reading what I write.

When a boy, if a dog ran away from me through fear, I generally looked about for a stone, or
a stick; and if neither offered to my hand, I skinned my hat after him to make him afraid for
something.  What signifies power, if we do not exert it?

Let my Lord know, that thou hast scribbled to me.  But give him not the contents of thy epistle.
Though a parcel of crude stuff, he would think there was something in it.  Poor arguments will
do, when brought in favour of what we like.  But the stupid peer little thinks that this lady
is a rebel to Love.  On the contrary, not only he, but all the world believe her to be a volunteer
in his service.--So I shall incur blame, and she will be pitied, if any thing happen amiss.

Since my Lord's heart is set upon this match, I have written already to let him know, 'That
my unhappy character had given my beloved an ungenerous diffidence of me.  That she is so mother-sick
and father-fond, that she had rather return to Harlowe-place than marry.  That she is even
apprehensive that the step she has taken of going off with me will make the ladies of a family
of such rank and honour as ours think slightly of her.  That therefore I desire his Lordship
(though this hint, I tell him, must be very delicately touched) to write me such a letter as
I can shew her; (let him treat me in it ever so freely, I shall not take it amiss, I tell him,
because I know his Lordship takes pleasure in writing to me in a corrective style).  That he
may make what offers he pleases on the marriage.  That I desire his presence at the ceremony;
that I may take from his hand the greatest blessing that mortal man can give me.'

I have not absolutely told the lady that I would write to his Lordship to this effect; yet
have given her reason to think I will.  So that without the last necessity I shall not produce
the answer I expect from him: for I am very loth, I own, to make use of any of my family's
names for the furthering of my designs.  And yet I must make all secure, before I pull off
the mask.  Was not this my motive for bringing her hither?

Thus thou seest that the old peer's letter came very seasonably.  I thank thee for that.  But
as to his sentences, they cannot possibly do me good. I was early suffocated with his wisdom
of nations.  When a boy, I never asked anything of him, but out flew a proverb; and if the
tendency of that was to deny me, I never could obtain the least favour.  This gave me so great
an aversion to the very word, that, when a child, I made it a condition with my tutor, who
was an honest parson, that I would not read my Bible at all, if he would not excuse me one
of the wisest books in it: to which, however, I had no other objection, than that it was called
The Proverbs.  And as for Solomon, he was then a hated character with me, not because of his
polygamy, but because I had conceived him to be such another musty old fellow as my uncle.

Well, but let us leave old saws to old me. What signifies thy tedious whining over thy departing
relation?  Is it not generally agreed that he cannot recover?  Will it not be kind in thee
to put him out of his misery?  I hear that he is pestered still with visits from doctors, and
apothecaries, and surgeons; that they cannot cut so deep as the mortification has gone; and
that in every visit, in every scarification, inevitable death is pronounced upon him.  Why
then do they keep tormenting him?  Is it not to take away more of his living fleece than of
his dead flesh?--When a man is given over, the fee should surely be refused.  Are they not
now robbing his heirs?--What has thou to do, if the will be as thou'dst have it?--He sent for
thee [did he not?] to close his eyes.  He is but an uncle, is he?

Let me see, if I mistake not, it is in the Bible, or some other good book:  can it be in Herodotus?--O
I believe it is in Josephus, a half- sacred, and half-profane author.  He tells us of a king
of Syria put out of his pain by his prime minister, or one who deserved to be so for his contrivance.
The story says, if I am right, that he spread a wet cloth over his face, which killing him,
he reigned in his place.  A notable fellow!  Perhaps this wet cloth in the original, is what
we now call laudanum; a potion that overspreads the faculties, as the wet cloth did the face
of the royal patient; and the translator knew not how to render it.

But how like forlorn varlet thou subscribest, 'Thy melancholy friend, J. BELFORD!'  Melancholy!
For what?  To stand by, and see fair play between an old man and death?  I thought thou hadst
been more of a man; that thou art not afraid of an acute death, a sword's point, to be so plaugily
hip'd at the consequences of a chronical one!--What though the scarificators work upon him
day by day?  It's only upon a caput mortuum: and pr'ythee go to, to use the stylum veterum,
and learn of the royal butchers; who, for sport, (an hundred times worse men than thy Lovelace,)
widow ten thousand at a brush, and make twice as many fatherless--learn of them, I say, how
to support a single death.

But art thou sure, Jack, it is a mortification?--My uncle once gave promises of such a root-and-branch
distemper: but, alas! it turned to a smart gout-fit; and I had the mortification instead of
him.--I have heard that bark, in proper doses, will arrest a mortification in its progress,
and at last cure it.  Let thy uncle's surgeon know, that it is worth more than his ears, if
he prescribe one grain of the bark.

I wish my uncle had given me the opportunity of setting thee a better example: thou shouldst
have seen what a brave fellow I had been.  And had I had occasion to write, my conclusion would
have been this: 'I hope the old Trojan's happy.  In that hope, I am so; and

'Thy rejoicing friend, 'R. LOVELACE.'

Dwell not always, Jack, upon one subject.  Let me have poor Belton's
   story.  The sooner the better.  If I can be of service to him, tell
   him he may command me either in purse or person.  Yet the former with
   a freer will than the latter; for how can I leave my goddess?  But
   I'll issue my commands to my other vassals to attend thy summons.

If ye want head, let me know.  If not, my quota, on this occasion, is
   money.

LETTER XXXVIII

MR. BELFORD, TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ. SATURDAY, MAY 20.

Not one word will I reply to such an abandoned wretch, as thou hast shewn thyself to be in
thine of last night.  I will leave the lady to the protection of that Power who only can work
miracles; and to her own merits.  Still I have hopes that these will save her.

I will proceed, as thou desirest, to poor Belton's case; and the rather, as it has thrown me
into such a train of thinking upon our past lives, our present courses, and our future views,
as may be of service to us both, if I can give due weight to the reflections that arise from it.

The poor man made me a visit on Thursday, in this my melancholy attendance. He began with complaints
of his ill health and spirits, his hectic cough, and his increased malady of spitting blood;
and then led to his story.

A confounded one it is; and which highly aggravates his other maladies: for it has come out,
that his Thomasine, (who, truly, would be new christened, you know, that her name might be
nearer in sound to the christian name of the man whom she pretended to doat upon) has for many
years carried on an intrigue with a fellow who had been hostler to her father (an innkeeper
at Darking); of whom, at the expense of poor Belton, she has made a gentleman; and managed
it so, that having the art to make herself his cashier, she has been unable to account for
large sums, which he thought forthcoming at demand, and had trusted to her custody, in order
to pay off a mortgage upon his parental estate in Kent, which his heart has run upon leaving
clear, but which now cannot be done, and will soon be foreclosed.  And yet she has so long
passed for his wife, that he knows not what to resolve upon about her; nor about the two boys
he was so fond of, supposing them to be his; whereas now he begins to doubt his share in them.

So KEEPING don't do, Lovelace.  'Tis not the eligible wife.  'A man must keep a woman, said
the poor fellow to me, but not his estate!--Two interests!--Then, my tottering fabric!' pointing
to his emaciated carcass.

We do well to value ourselves upon our liberty, or to speak more properly, upon the liberties
we take.  We had need to run down matrimony as we do, and to make that state the subject of
our frothy jests; when we frequently render ourselves (for this of Tom's is not a singular
case) the dupes and tools of women who generally govern us (by arts our wise heads penetrate
not) more absolutely than a wife would attempt to do.

Let us consider this point a little; and that upon our own principles, as libertines, setting
aside what is exacted from us by the laws of our country, and its customs; which, nevertheless,
we cannot get over, till we have got over almost all moral obligations, as members of society.

In the first place, let us consider (we, who are in possession of estates by legal descent)
how we should have liked to have been such naked destitute varlets, as we must have been, had
our fathers been as wise as ourselves; and despised matrimony as we do--and then let us ask
ourselves, If we ought not to have the same regard for our posterity, as we are glad our fathers
had for theirs?

But this, perhaps, is too moral a consideration.--To proceed therefore to those considerations
which will be more striking to us: How can we reasonably expect economy or frugality (or anything
indeed but riot and waste) from creatures who have an interest, and must therefore have views,
different from our own?

They know the uncertain tenure (our fickle humours) by which they hold: And is it to be wondered
at, supposing them to be provident harlots, that they should endeavour, if they have the power,
to lay up against a rainy day? or, if they have not the power, that they should squander all
they can come at, when they are sure of nothing but the present hour; and when the life they
live, and the sacrifices they have made, put conscience and honour out of the question?

Whereas a wife, having the same family-interest with her husband, lies not under either the
same apprehensions or temptations; and has not broken through (of necessity, at least, has
not) those restraints which education has fastened upon her: and if she makes a private purse,
which we are told by anti-matrimonialists, all wives love to do, and has children, it goes
all into the same family at the long-run.

Then as to the great article of fidelity to your bed--Are not women of family, who are well-educated,
under greater restraints, than creatures, who, if they ever had reputation, sacrifice it to
sordid interest, or to more sordid appetite, the moment they give it up to you?  Does not the
example you furnish, of having succeeded with her, give  encouragement for others to attempt
her likewise?  For with all her blandishments, can any man be so credulous, or so vain, as
to believe, that the woman he could persuade, another may not prevail upon?

Adultery is so capital a guilt, that even rakes and libertines, if not wholly abandoned, and
as I may say, invited by a woman's levity, disavow and condemn it: but here, in a state of
KEEPING, a woman is in no danger of incurring (legally, at least) that guilt; and you yourself
have broken through and overthrown in her all the fences and boundaries of moral honesty, and
the modesty and reserves of her sex: And what tie shall hold her against inclination, or interest?
And what shall deter an attempter?

While a husband has this security from legal sanctions, that if his wife be detected in a criminal
conversation with a man of fortune, (the most likely by bribes to seduce her,) he may recover
very great damages, and procure a divorce besides: which, to say nothing of the ignominy, is
a consideration that must have some force upon both parties.  And a wife must be vicious indeed,
and a reflection upon a man's own choice, who, for the sake of change, and where there are
no qualities to seduce, nor affluence to corrupt, will run so many hazards to injure her husband
in the tenderest of all points.

But there are difficulties in procuring a divorce--[and so there ought]-- and none, says the
rake, in parting with a mistress whenever you suspect her; or whenever you are weary of her,
and have a mind to change her for another.

But must not the man be a brute indeed, who can cast off a woman whom he has seduced, [if he
take her from the town, that's another thing,] without some flagrant reason; something that
will better justify him to himself, as well as to her, and to the world, than mere power and
novelty?

But I don't see, if we judge by fact, and by the practice of all we have been acquainted with
of the keeping-class, that we know how to part with them when we have them.

That we know we can if we will, is all we have for it: and this leads us to bear many things
from a mistress, which we would not from a wife. But, if we are good-natured and humane: if
the woman has art: [and what woman wants it, who has fallen by art? and to whose precarious
situation art is so necessary?] if you have given her the credit of being called by your name:
if you have a settled place of abode, and have received and paid visits in her company, as
your wife: if she has brought you children --you will allow that these are strong obligations
upon you in the world's eye, as well as to your own heart, against tearing yourself from such
close connections.  She will stick to you as your skin: and it will be next to flaying yourself
to cast her off.

Even if there be cause for it, by infidelity, she will have managed ill, if she have not her
defenders.  Nor did I ever know a cause or a person so bad, as to want advocates, either from
ill-will to the one, or pity to the other: and you will then be thought a hard-hearted miscreant:
and even were she to go off without credit to herself, she will leave you as little; especially
with all those whose good opinion a man would wish to cultivate.

Well, then, shall this poor privilege, that we may part with a woman if we will, be deemed
a balance for the other inconveniencies?  Shall it be thought by us, who are men of family
and fortune, an equivalent for giving up equality of degree; and taking for the partner of
our bed, and very probably more than the partner in our estates, (to the breach of all family-rule
and order,) a low-born, a low-educated creature, who has not brought any thing into the common
stock; and can possibly make no returns for the solid benefits she receives, but those libidinous
ones, which a man cannot boast of, but to his disgrace, nor think of, but to the shame of both?

Moreover, as the man advances in years, the fury of his libertinism will go off.  He will have
different aims and pursuits, which will diminish his appetite to ranging, and make such a regular
life as the matrimonial and family life, palatable to him, and every day more palatable.

If he has children, and has reason to think them his, and if his lewd courses have left him
any estate, he will have cause to regret the restraint his boasted liberty has laid him under,
and the valuable privilege it has deprived him of; when he finds that it must descend to some
relation, for whom, whether near or distant, he cares not one farthing; and who perhaps (if
a man of virtue) has held him in the utmost contempt for his dissolute life.

And were we to suppose his estate in his power to bequeath as he pleases; why should a man
resolve, for the gratifying of his foolish humour only, to bastardize his race?  Why should
he wish to expose his children to the scorn and insults of the rest of the world?  Why should
he, whether they are sons or daughters, lay them under the necessity of complying with proposals
of marriage, either inferior as to fortune, or unequal as to age?  Why should he deprive the
children he loves, who themselves may be guilty of no fault, of the respect they would wish
to have, and to deserve; and of the opportunity of associating themselves with proper, that
is to say, with reputable company? and why should he make them think themselves under obligation
to every person of character, who will vouchsafe to visit them?  What little reason, in a word,
would such children have to bless their father's obstinate defiance of the laws and customs
of his country; and for giving them a mother, of whom they could not think with honour; to
whose crime it was that they owed their very beings, and whose example it was their duty to shun?

If the education and morals of these children are left to chance, as too generally they are,
(for the man who has humanity and a feeling heart, and who is capable of fondness for his offspring,
I take it for granted will marry,) the case is still worse; his crime is perpetuated, as I
may say, by his children: and the sea, the army, perhaps the highway, for the boys; the common
for the girls; too often point out the way to a worse catastrophe.

What therefore, upon the whole, do we get by treading in these crooked paths, but danger, disgrace,
and a too-late repentance?

And after all, do we not frequently become the cullies of our own libertinism; sliding into
the very state with those half-worn-out doxies, which perhaps we might have entered into with
their ladies; at least with their superiors both in degree and fortune? and all the time lived
handsomely like ourselves; not sneaking into holes and corners; and, when we crept abroad with
our women, looking about us, and at ever one that passed us, as if we were confessedly accountable
to the censures of all honest people.

My cousin Tony Jenyns, thou knewest.  He had not the actively mischievous spirit, that thou,
Belton, Mowbray, Tourville, and myself, have: but he imbibed the same notions we do, and carried
them into practice.

How did he prate against wedlock! how did he strut about as a wit and a smart! and what a wit
and a smart did all the boys and girls of our family (myself among the rest, then an urchin)
think him, for the airs he gave himself?--Marry!  No, not for the world; what man of sense
would bear the insolences, the petulances, the expensiveness of a wife!  He could not for the
heart of him think it tolerable, that a woman of equal rank and fortune, and, as it might happen,
superior talents to his own, should look upon herself to have a right to share the benefit
of that fortune which she brought him.

So, after he had fluttered about the town for two or three years, in all which time he had
a better opinion of himself than any body else had, what does he do, but enter upon an affair
with his fencing-master's daughter?

He succeeds; takes private lodgings for her at Hackney; visits her by stealth; both of them
tender of reputations that were extremely tender, but which neither had quite given up; for
rakes of either sex are always the last to condemn or cry down themselves: visited by nobody,
nor visiting: the life of a thief, or of a man bested by creditors, afraid to look out of his
own house, or to be seen abroad with her.  And thus went on for twelve years, and, though he
had a good estate, hardly making both ends meet; for though no glare, there was no economy;
and, beside, he had ever year a child, and very fond of his children was he.  But none of them
lived above three years.  And being now, on the death of the dozenth, grown as dully sober,
as if he had been a real husband, his good Mrs. Thomas (for he had not permitted her to take
his own name) prevailed upon him to think the loss of their children a judgment upon the parents
for their wicked way of life; [a time will come, Lovelace, if we live to advanced years, in
which reflection will take hold of the enfeebled mind;] and then it was not difficult for his
woman to induce him, by way of compounding with Heaven, to marry her.  When this was done,
he had leisure to sit down, and contemplate; an to recollect the many offers of persons of
family and fortune to which he had declined in the prime of life: his expenses equal at least:
his reputation not only less, but lost: his enjoyments stolen: his partnership unequal, and
such as he had always been ashamed of.  But the woman said, that after twelve or thirteen years'
cohabitation, Tony did an honest thing by her.  And that was all my poor cousin got by making
his old mistress his new wife--not a drum, not a trumpet, not a fife, not a tabret, nor the
expectation of a new joy, to animate him on!

What Belton will do with his Thomasine I know not! nor care I to advise him: for I see the
poor fellow does not like that any body should curse her but himself.  This he does very heartily.
And so low is he reduced, that he blubbers over the reflection upon his past fondness for her
cubs, and upon his present doubts of their being his: 'What a damn'd thing is it, Belford,
if Tom and Hal should be the hostler dog's puppies and not mine!'

Very true! and I think the strong health of the chubby-faced muscular whelps confirms the too
great probability.

But I say not so to him.

You, he says, are such a gay, lively mortal, that this sad tale would make no impression upon
you: especially now, that your whole heart is engaged as it is.  Mowbray would be too violent
upon it: he has not, he says, a feeling heart.  Tourville has no discretion: and, a pretty
jest! although he and his Thomasine lived without reputation in the world, (people guessing
that they were not married, notwithstanding she went by his name,) yet 'he would not too much
discredit the cursed ingrate neither!'

Could a man act a weaker part, had he been really married; and were he sure he was going to
separate from the mother of his own children?

I leave this as a lesson upon thy heart, without making any application: only with this remark,
'That after we libertines have indulged our licentious appetites, reflecting, (in the conceit
of our vain hearts,) both with our lips and by our lives, upon our ancestors and the good old
ways, we find out, when we come to years of discretion, if we live till then (what all who
knew us found out before, that is to say, we found out), our own despicable folly; that those
good old ways would have been best for us, as well as for the rest of the world; and that in
every step we have deviated from them we have only exposed our vanity and our ignorance at
the same time.'

J. BELFORD.

LETTER XXXIX

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. SATURDAY, MAY 20.

I am pleased with the sober reflection with which thou concludest thy last; and I thank thee
for it.  Poor Belton!--I did not think his Thomasine would have proved so very a devil.  But
this must everlastingly be the risk of a keeper, who takes up with a low-bred girl.  This I
never did.  Nor had I occasion to do it.  Such a one as I, Jack, needed only, till now, to
shake the stateliest tree, and the mellowed fruit dropt into my mouth:--always of Montaigne's
taste thou knowest:--thought it a glory to subdue a girl of family.--More truly delightful
to me the seduction- progress than the crowned act: for that's a vapour, a bubble! and most
cordially do I thank thee for thy indirect hint, that I am right in my pursuit.

From such a woman as Miss Harlowe, a man is secured from all the inconveniencies thou expatiatest
upon.

Once more, therefore, do I thank thee, Belford, for thy approbation!--A man need not, as thou
sayest, sneak into holes and corners, and shun the day, in the company of such a woman as this.
How friendly in thee, thus to abet the favourite purpose of my heart!--nor can it be a disgrace
to me, to permit such a lady to be called by my name!--nor shall I be at all concerned about
the world's censure, if I live to the years of discretion, which thou mentionest, should I
be taken in, and prevailed upon to tread with her the good old path of my ancestors.

A blessing on thy heart, thou honest fellow!  I thought thou wert in jest, and but acquitting
thyself of an engagement to Lord M. when thou wert pleading for matrimony in behalf of this
lady!--It could not be principle, I knew, in thee: it could not be compassion--a little envy
indeed I suspected!--But now I see thee once more thyself: and once more, say I, a blessing
on thy heart, thou true friend, and very honest fellow!

Now will I proceed with courage in all my schemes, and oblige thee with the continued narrative
of my progressions towards bringing them to effect!--but I could not forbear to interrupt my
story, to show my gratitude.

LETTER XL

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.

And now will I favour thee with a brief account of our present situation.

From the highest to the lowest we are all extremely happy.--Dorcas stands well in her lady's
graces.  Polly has asked her advice in relation to a courtship-affair of her own.  No oracle
ever gave better.  Sally has had a quarrel with her woollen-draper; and made my charmer lady-chancellor
in it.  She blamed Sally for behaving tyrannically to a man who loves her. Dear creature! to
stand against a glass, and to shut her eyes because she will not see her face in it!--Mrs.
Sinclair has paid her court to so unerring a judge, by requesting her advice with regard to
both nieces.

This the way we have been in for several days with the people below.  Yet sola generally at
her meals, and seldom at other times in their company. They now, used to her ways, [perseverance
must conquer,] never press her; so when they meet, all is civility on both sides.  Even married
people, I believe, Jack, prevent abundance of quarrels, by seeing one another but seldom.

But how stands it between thyself and the lady, methinks thou askest, since her abrupt departure
from thee, and undutiful repulse of Wednesday morning?

Why, pretty well in the main.  Nay, very well.  For why? the dear saucy- face knows not how
to help herself.  Can fly to no other protection.  And has, besides, overheard a conversation
[who would have thought she had been so near?] which passed between Mrs. Sinclair, Miss Martin,
and myself, that very Wednesday afternoon; which has set her heart at ease with respect to
several doubtful points.

Such as, particularly, 'Mrs. Fretchville's unhappy state of mind--most humanely pitied by Miss
Martin, who knows her very well--the husband she has lost, and herself, (as Sally says,) lovers
from their cradles.  Pity from one begets pity from another, be the occasion for it either
strong or weak; and so many circumstances were given to poor Mrs. Fretchville's distress, that
it was impossible but my beloved must extremely pity her whom the less tender-hearted Miss
Martin greatly pitied.

'My Lord M.'s gout his only hindrance from visiting my spouse.  Lady Betty and Miss Montague
soon expected in town.

'My earnest desire signified to have my spouse receive those ladies in her own hose, if Mrs.
Fretchville would but know her own mind; and I pathetically lamented the delay occasioned by
her not knowing it.

'My intention to stay at Mrs. Sinclair's, as I said I had told them before, while my spouse
resides in her own hose, (when Mrs. Fretchville could be brought to quit it,) in order to gratify
her utmost punctilio.

'My passion for my beloved (which, as I told them in a high and fervent accent, was the truest
that man could have for woman) I boasted of.  It was, in short, I said, of the true platonic
kind; or I had no notion of what platonic love was.'

So it is, Jack; and must end as platonic love generally does end.

'Sally and Mrs. Sinclair next praised, but not grossly, my beloved. Sally particularly admired
her purity; called it exemplary; yet (to avoid suspicion) expressed her thoughts that she was
rather over-nice, if she might presume to say so before me.  But nevertheless she applauded
me for the strict observation I made of my vow.

'I more freely blamed her reserves to me; called her cruel; inveighed against her relations;
doubted her love.  Every favour I asked of her denied me.  Yet my behaviour to her as pure
and delicate when alone, as when before them.  Hinted at something that had passed between
us that very day, that shewed her indifference to me in so strong a light, that I could not
bear it.  But that I would ask her for her company to the play of Venice Preserved, given out
for Sunday night as a benefit-play; the prime actors to be in it; and this, to see if I were
to be denied every favour.--Yet, for my own part, I loved not tragedies; though she did, for
the sake of the instruction, the warning, and the example generally given in them.  For very
few of our comic performances, as thou knowest, give us good ones.-- I answer, however, for
myself--yet thou, I think, on recollection, lovest to deal in the lamentable.

Sally answered for Polly, who was absent; Mrs. Sinclair for herself, and for all her acquaintance,
even for Miss Partington, in preferring the comic to the tragic scenes.--And I believe they
are right; for the devil's in it, if a confided-in rake does not give a girl enough of tragedy
in his comedy.

'I asked Sally to oblige my fair-one with her company.  She was engaged, [that was right, thou'lt
suppose].  I asked Mrs. Sinclair's leave for Polly.  To be sure, she answered, Polly would
think it an honour to attend Mrs. Lovelace: but the poor thing was tender-hearted; and as the
tragedy was deep, would weep herself blind.

'Sally, meantime, objected Singleton, that I might answer the objection, and save my beloved
the trouble of making it, or debating the point with me; and on this occasion I regretted that
her brother's projects were not laid aside; since, if they had been given up, I would have
gone in person to bring up the ladies of my family to attend my spouse.

'I then, from a letter just before received from one in her father's family, warned them of
a person who had undertaken to find us out, and whom I thus in writing [having called for pen
and ink] described, that they might arm all the family against him--"A sun-burnt, pock-fretten
sailor, ill-looking, big-boned; his stature about six foot; an heavy eye, an overhanging brow,
a deck-treading stride in his walk; a couteau generally by his side; lips parched from his
gums, as if by staring at the sun in hot climates; a brown coat; a coloured handkerchief about
his neck; an oaken plant in his hand near as long as himself, and proportionately thick."

'No questions asked by this fellow must be answered.  They should call me to him.  But not
let my beloved know a tittle of this, so long as it could be helped.  And I added, that if
her brother or Singleton came, and if they behaved civilly, I would, for her sake, be civil
to them: and in this case, she had nothing to do but to own her marriage, and there could be
no pretence for violence on either side.  But most fervently I swore, that if she was conveyed
away, either by persuasion or force, I would directly, on missing her but one day, go to demand
her at Harlowe-place, whether she were there or not; and if I recovered not a sister, I would
have a brother; and should find out a captain of a ship as well as he.'

And now, Jack, dost thou think she'll attempt to get from me, do what I will?

'Mrs. Sinclair began to be afraid of mischief in her house--I was apprehensive that she would
over-do the matter, and be out of character. I therefore winked at her.  She primed; nodded,
to show she took me; twanged out a high-ho through her nose, lapped one horse-lip over the
other, and was silent.'

Here's preparation, Belford!--Dost think I will throw it all away for any thing thou canst
say, or Lord M. write?--No, indeed--as my charmer says, when she bridles.

***

And what must necessarily be the consequence of all this with regard to my beloved's behaviour
to me?  Canst thou doubt, that it was all complaisance next time she admitted me into her presence?

Thursday we were very happy.  All the morning extremely happy.  I kissed her charming hand.--I
need not describe to thee her hand and arm.  When thou sawest her, I took notice that thy eyes
dwelt upon them whenever thou couldst spare them from that beauty spot of wonders, her face--fifty
times kissed her hand, I believe--once her cheek, intending her lip, but so rapturously, that
she could not help seeming angry.

Had she not thus kept me at arms-length; had she not denied me those innocent liberties which
our sex, from step to step, aspire to; could I but have gained access to her in her hours of
heedlessness and dishabille, [for full dress creates dignity, augments consciousness, and compels
distance;] we had familiarized to each other long ago.  But keep her up ever so late, meet
her ever so early, by breakfast-time she is dressed for the day, and at her earliest hour,
as nice as others dressed. All her forms thus kept up, wonder not that I have made so little
progress in the proposed trial.--But how must all this distance stimulate!

Thursday morning, as I said, we were extremely happy--about noon, she numbered the hours she
had been with me; all of them to be but as one minute; and desired to be left to herself. 
I was loth to comply: but observing the sun-shine began to shut in, I yielded.

I dined out.  Returning, I talked of the house, and of Mrs. Fretchville-- had seen Mennell--had
pressed him to get the widow to quit: she pitied Mrs. Fretchville [another good effect of the
overheard conversation]--had written to Lord M., expected an answer soon from him.  I was admitted
to sup with her.  I urged for her approbation or correction of my written terms.  She again
promised an answer as soon as she had heard from Miss Howe.

Then I pressed for her company to the play on Saturday night.  She made objections, as I had
foreseen: her brother's projects, warmth of the weather, &c.  But in such a manner, as if half
afraid to disoblige me [another happy effect of the overheard conversation].  I soon got over
these, therefore; and she consented to favour me.

Friday passed as the day before.

Here were two happy days to both.  Why cannot I make every day equally happy?  It looks as
if it were in my power to do so.  Strange, I should thus delight in teasing a woman I so dearly
love!  I must, I doubt, have something in my temper like Miss Howe, who loves to plague the
man who puts himself in her power.--But I could not do thus by such an angel as this, did I
not believe that, after her probation time shall be expired, and if she be not to be brought
to cohabitation, (my darling view,) I shall reward her as she wishes.

Saturday is half over.  We are equally happy--preparing for the play. Polly has offered her
company, and is accepted.  I have directed her where to weep: and this not only to show her
humanity, [a weeping eye indicates a gentle heart,] but to have a pretence to hide her face
with a fan or handkerchief.--Yet Polly is far from being every man's girl; and we shall sit
in the gallery green-box.

The woes of others, so well represented as those of Belvidera particularly will be, must, I
hope, unlock and open my charmer's heart. Whenever I have been able to prevail upon a girl
to permit me to attend her to a play, I have thought myself sure of her.  The female heart
(all gentleness and harmony by nature) expands, and forgets its forms, when its attention is
carried out of itself at an agreeable or affecting entertainment--music, and perhaps a collation
afterwards, co-operating.

Indeed, I have no hope of such an effect here; but I have more than one end to answer by getting
her to a play.  To name but one.--Dorcas has a master-key, as I have told thee.--But it were
worth while to carry her to the play of Venice Preserved, were it but to show her, that there
have been, and may be, much deeper distresses than she can possibly know.

Thus exceedingly happy are we at present.  I hope we shall not find any of Nat. Lee's left-handed
gods at work, to dash our bowl of joy with wormwood.

R. LOVELACE.

I would not, if I could help it, be so continually brooding over the dark and gloomy face of
my condition [all nature, you know, my dear, and every thing in it, has a bright and a gloomy
side] as to be thought unable to enjoy a more hopeful prospect.  And this, not only for my
own sake, but for yours, who take such generous concern in all that befalls me.

Let me tell you then, my dear, that I have known four-and-twenty hours together not unhappy
ones, my situation considered.

[She then gives the particulars of the conversation which she had
   overheard between Mr. Lovelace, Mrs. Sinclair, and Miss Martin; but
   accounts more minutely than he had done for the opportunity she had of
   overhearing it, unknown to them.

She gives the reasons she has to be pleased with what she heard from
   each: but is shocked at the measure he is resolved to take, if he
   misses her but for one day.  Yet is pleased that he proposes to avoid
   aggressive violence, if her brother and he meet in town.]

Even Dorcas, says she, appears less exceptionable to me than before; and I cannot but pity
her for her neglected education, as it is matter of so much regret to herself: else, there
would not be much in it; as the low and illiterate are the most useful people in the common-wealth
(since such constitute the labouring part of the public); and as a lettered education but too
generally sets people above those servile offices by which the businesses of the world is carried
on.  Nor have I any doubt but there are, take the world through, twenty happy people among
the unlettered, to one among those who have had a school-education.

This, however, concludes not against learning or letters; since one would wish to lift to some
little distinction, and more genteel usefulness, those who have capacity, and whose parentage
one respects, or whose services one would wish to reward.

Were my mind quite at ease, I could enlarge, perhaps not unusefully, upon this subject; for
I have considered it with as much attention as my years, and little experience and observation,
will permit.

But the extreme illiterateness and indocility of this maid are surprising, considering that
she wants not inquisitiveness, appears willing to learn, and, in other respects, has quick
parts.  This confirms to me what I have heard remarked, That there is a docible season, a learning-time,
as I may say, for every person, in which the mind may be led, step by step, from the lower
to the higher, (year by year,) to improvement.  How industriously ought these seasons, as they
offer, to be taken hold of by tutors, parents, and other friends, to whom the cultivation of
the genius of children and youth is committed; since, one elapsed, and no foundation laid,
they hardly ever return!--And yet it must be confessed, that there are some geniuses, which,
like some fruits, ripen not till late.  And industry and perseverance will do prodigious things--but
for a learner to have those first rudiments to master at twenty years of age, suppose, which
others are taught, and they themselves might have attained, at ten, what an uphill labour!

These kind of observations you have always wished me to intersperse, as they arise to my thoughts.
But it is a sign that my prospects are a little mended, or I should not, among so many more
interesting ones that my mind has been of late filled with, have had heart's ease enough to
make them.

Let me give you my reflections on my more hopeful prospects.

I am now, in the first place, better able to account for the delays about the house than I
was before--Poor Mrs. Fretchville!--Though I know her not, I pity her!--Next, it looks well,
that he had apprized the women (before this conversation with them, of his intention to stay
in this house, after I was removed to the other.  By the tone of his voice he seemed concerned
for the appearance of this new delay would have with me.

So handsomely did Miss Martin express herself of me, that I am sorry, methinks, that I judged
so hardly of her, when I first came hither--free people may go a great way, but not all the
way: and as such are generally unguarded, precipitate, and thoughtless, the same quickness,
changeableness, and suddenness of spirit, as I may call it, may intervene (if the heart be
not corrupted) to recover them to thought and duty.

His reason for declining to go in person to bring up the ladies of his family, while my brother
and Singleton continue their machinations, carries no bad face with it; and one may the rather
allow for their expectations, that so proud a spirit as his should attend them for this purpose,
as he speaks of them sometimes as persons of punctilio.

Other reasons I will mention for my being easier in my mind than I was before I overheard this
conversation.

Such as, the advice he had received in relation to Singleton's mate; which agrees but too well
with what you, my dear, wrote to me in your's of May the 10th.*

* See Letter XXIII. of this volume.

His not intending to acquaint me with it.

His cautions to the servants about the sailor, if he should come and make inquiries about us.

His resolution to avoid violence, were he to fall in either with my brother, or this Singleton;
and the easy method he has chalked out, in this case, to prevent mischief; since I need only
not to deny my being his.  But yet I should be driven into such a tacit acknowledgement to
any new persons, till I am so, although I have been led (so much against my liking) to give
countenance to the belief of the persons below that we are married.

I think myself obliged, from what passed between Mr. Lovelace and me on Wednesday, and from
what I overheard him say, to consent to go with him to the play; and the rather, as he had
the discretion to propose one of the nieces to accompany me.

I cannot but acknowledge that I am pleased to find that he has actually written to Lord M.

I have promised to give Mr. Lovelace an answer to his proposals as soon as I have heard from
you, my dear, on the subject.

I hope that in my next letter I shall have reason to confirm these favourable appearances.
Favourable I must think them in the wreck I have suffered.

I hope, that in the trial which you hint may happen between me and myself, (as you* express
it,) if he should so behave as to oblige me to leave him, I shall be able to act in such a
manner as to bring no discredit upon myself in your eye; and that is all now that I have to
wish for.  But, if I value him so much as you are pleased to suppose I do, the trial, which
you imagine will be so difficult to me, will not, I conceive, be upon getting from him, when
the means to affect my escape are lent me; but how I shall behave when got from him; and if,
like the Israelites of old, I shall be so weak as to wish to return to my Egyptian bondage.

* See Letter XXXIV. of this volume.

I think it will not be amiss, notwithstanding the present favourable appearances, that you
should perfect the scheme (whatever it be) which you tell me* you have thought of, in order
to procure for me an asylum, in case of necessity.  Mr. Lovelace is certainly a deep and dangerous
man; and it is therefore but prudence to be watchful, and to be provided against the worst.
Lord bless me, my dear, how I am reduced!--Could I ever have thought to be in such a situation,
as to be obliged to stay with a man, of whose honour by me I could have but the shadow of a
doubt! --But I will look forward, and hope the best.

* Ibid.

I am certain that your letters are safe.  Be perfectly easy, therefore, on that head.

Mr. Lovelace will never be out of my company by his good will, otherwise I have no doubt that
I am mistress of my goings-out and comings-in; and did I think it needful, and were I not afraid
of my brother and Captain Singleton, I would oftener put it to trial.

LETTER XLII

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE SATURDAY, MAY 20.

I did not know, my dear, that you deferred giving an answer to Mr. Lovelace's proposals till
you had my opinion of them.  A particular hand, occasionally going to town, will leave this
at Wilson's, that no delay may be made on that account.

I never had any doubt of the man's justice and generosity in matters of settlement; and all
his relations are as noble in their spirits as in their descent; but now, it may not be amiss
for you to wait, to see what returns my Lord makes to his letter of invitation.

The scheme I think of is this:

There is a person, whom I believe you have seen with me, her name Townsend, who is a great
dealer in Indian silks, Brussels and French laces, cambricks, linen, and other valuable goods;
which she has a way of coming at duty-free; and has a great vend for them (and for other curiosities
which she imports) in the private families of the gentry round us.

She has her days of being in town, and then is at a chamber she rents at an inn in Southwark,
where she keeps patters of all her silks, and much of her portable goods, for the conveniency
of her London customers.  But her place of residence, and where she has her principal warehouse,
is at Depford, for the opportunity of getting her goods on shore.

She was first brought to me by my mother, to whom she was recommended on the supposal of my
speedy marriage, 'that I might have an opportunity to be as fine as a princess,' was my mother's
expression, 'at a moderate expense.'

Now, my dear, I must own, that I do not love to encourage these contraband traders.  What is
it, but bidding defiance to the laws of our country, when we do, and hurting fair traders;
and at the same time robbing our prince of his legal due, to the diminution of those duties
which possibly must be made good by new levities upon the public?

But, however, Mrs. Townsend and I, though I have not yet had dealings with her, are upon a
very good foot of understanding.  She is a sensible woman; she has been abroad, and often goes
abroad in the way of her business, and gives very entertaining accounts of all she has seen.

And having applied to me to recommend her to you, (as it is her view to be known to young ladies
who are likely to change their condition,) I am sure I can engage her to give you protection
at her house at Deptford; which she says is a populous village, and one of the last, I should
think, in which you would be sought for.  She is not much there, you will believe, by the course
of her dealings, but, no doubt, must have somebody on the spot, in whom she can confide: and
there, perhaps, you might be safe till your cousin comes.  And I should not think it amiss
that you write to him out of hand.  I cannot suggest to you what you should write. That must
be left to your own discretion.  For you will be afraid, no doubt, of the consequence of a
variance between the two men.

But, notwithstanding all this, and were I sure of getting you safely out of his hands, I will
nevertheless forgive you, were you to make all up with him, and marry to-morrow.  Yet I will
proceed with my projected scheme in relation to Mrs. Townsend; though I hope there will be
no occasion to prosecute it, since your prospects seem to be changed, and since you have had
twenty-four not unhappy hours together.  How my indignation rises for this poor consolation
in the courtship [courtship must I call it?] of such a woman! let me tell you, my dear, that
were you once your own absolute and independent mistress, I should be tempted, notwithstanding
all I have written, to wish you to be the wife of any man in the world, rather than the wife
either of Lovelace or of Solmes.

Mrs. Townsend, as I have recollected, has two brothers, each a master of a vessel; and who
knows, as she and they have concerns together, but that, in case of need, you may have a whole
ship's crew at your devotion? If Lovelace give you cause to leave him, take no thought for
the people at Harlowe-place.  Let them take care of one another.  It is a care they are used
to.  The law will help to secure them.  The wretch is no assassin, no night-murderer.  He is
an open, because a fearless enemy; and should he attempt any thing that would make him obnoxious
to the laws of society, you might have a fair riddance of him, either by flight or the gallows;
no matter which.

Had you not been so minute in your account of the circumstances that attended the opportunity
you had of overhearing the dialogue between Mr. Lovelace and two of the women, I should have
thought the conference contrived on purpose for your ear.

I showed Mr. Lovelace's proposals to Mr. Hickman, who had chambers once in Lincoln's-inn, being
designed for the law, had his elder brother lived.  He looked so wise, so proud, and so important,
upon the occasion; and wanted to take so much consideration about them--Would take them home
if I pleased--and weigh them well--and so forth--and the like--and all that--that I had no
patience with him, and snatched them back with anger.

O dear!--to be so angry, an't please me, for his zeal!--

Yes, zeal without knowledge, I said--like most other zeals--if there were no objections that
struck him at once, there were none.

So hasty, dearest Madam--

And so slow, un-dearest Sir, I could have said--But SURELY, said I, with a look that implied,
Would you rebel, Sir!

He begged my pardon--Saw no objection, indeed!--But might he be allowed once more--

No matter--no matter--I would have shown them to my mother, I said, who, though of no inn of
court, knew more of these things than half the lounging lubbers of them; and that at first
sight--only that she would have been angry at the confession of our continued correspondence.

But, my dear, let the articles be drawn up, and engrossed; and solemnize upon them; and there's
no more to be said.

Let me add, that the sailor-fellow has been tampering with my Kitty, and offered a bribe, to
find where to direct to you.  Next time he comes, I will have him laid hold of; and if I can
get nothing out of him, will have him drawn through one of our deepest fishponds.  His attempt
to corrupt a servant of mine will justify my orders.

I send this letter away directly.  But will follow it by another; which shall have for its
subject only my mother, myself, and your uncle Antony. And as your prospects are more promising
than they have been, I will endeavour to make you smile upon the occasion.  For you will be
pleased to know, that my mother has had a formal tender from that grey goose, which may make
her skill in settlements useful to herself, were she to encourage it.

May your prospects be still more and more happy, prays

Your own, ANNA HOWE. SUNDAY, MAY 20, 21.

Now, my dear, for the promised subject.  You must not ask me how I came by the originals [such
they really are] that I am going to present you with: for my mother would not read to me those
parts of your uncle's letter which bore hard upon myself, and which leave him without any title
to mercy from me: nor would she let me hear but what she pleased of her's in answer; for she
has condescended to answer him--with a denial, however; but such a denial as no one but an
old bachelor would take from a widow.

Any body, except myself, who could have been acquainted with such a fal-lal courtship as this
must have been had it proceeded, would have been glad it had gone on: and I dare say, but for
the saucy daughter, it had. My good mamma, in that case, would have been ten years the younger
for it, perhaps: and, could I but have approved of it, I should have been considered by her
as if ten years older than I am: since, very likely, it would have been: 'We widows, my dear,
know not how to keep men at a distance--so as to give them pain, in order to try their love.--You
must advise me, child: you must teach me to be cruel--yet not too cruel neither--so as to make
a man heartless, who has no time, God wot, to throw away.'--Then would my behaviour to Mr.
Hickman have been better liked; and my mother would have bridled like her daughter.

O my dear, how might we have been diverted by the practisings for the recovery of the long
forgottens! could I have been sure that it would have been in my power to have put them asunder,
in the Irish style, before they had come together.  But there's no trusting to the widow whose
goods and chattels are in her own hands, addressed by an old bachelor who has fine things,
and offers to leave her ten thousand pounds better than he found her, and sole mistress, besides,
of all her notables! for these, as you will see by-and-by, are his proposals.

The old Triton's address carries the writer's marks upon the very subscription--To the equally
amiable and worthy admired [there's for you!] Mrs. ANABELLA HOWE, widow, the last word added,
I suppose as Esquire to a man, as a word of honour; or for fear the bella to Anna, should not
enough distinguish the person meant from the spinster: [vain hussy you'll call me, I know:]
And then follows;--These humbly present. --Put down as a memorandum, I presume, to make a leg,
and behave handsomely at presenting it, he intending, very probably, to deliver it himself.

And now stand by--to see

ENTER OLD NEPTUNE.

His head adorned with sea-weed, and a crown of cockle-shells; as we see
   him decked out in Mrs. Robinson's grotto.

MONDAY, MAY 15.

MADAM,

I did make a sort of resolution ten years ago never to marry.  I saw in other families, where
they lived best, you will be pleased to mark that, queernesses I could not away with.  Then
liked well enough to live single for the sake of my brother's family; and for one child in
it more than the rest.  But that girl has turned us all off the hinges: and why should I deny
myself any comforts for them, as will not thank me for so doing, I don't know.

So much for my motives as from self and family: but the dear Mrs. Howe makes me go farther.

I have a very great fortune, I bless God for it, all of my own getting, or most of it; you
will be pleased to mark that; for I was the youngest brother of three.  You have also, God
be thanked, a great estate, which you have improved by your own frugality and wise management.
Frugality, let me stop to say, is one of the greatest virtues in this mortal life, because
it enables us to do justice to all, and puts it in our power to benefit some by it, as we see
they deserve.

You have but one child; and I am a bachelor, and have never a one--all bachelors cannot say
so: wherefore your daughter may be the better for me, if she will keep up with my humour; which
was never thought bad: especially to my equals.  Servants, indeed, I don't matter being angry
with, when I please; they are paid for bearing it, and too-too often deserve it; as we have
frequently taken notice of to one another.  And, moreover, if we keep not servants at distance,
they will be familiar. I always made it a rule to find fault, whether reasonable or not, that
so I might have no reason to find fault.  Young women and servants in general (as worthy Mr.
Solmes observes) are better governed by fear than love.  But this my humour as to servants
will not effect either you or Miss, you know.

I will make very advantageous settlements; such as any common friend shall judge to be so.
But must have all in my own power, while I live: because, you know, Madam, it is as creditable
to the wife, as to the husband, that it should be so.

I am not at fine words.  We are not children; though it is hoped we may have some; for I am
a very healthy sound man.  I bless God for it: and never brought home from my voyages and travels
a worser constitution than I took out with me.  I was none of those, I will assure you.  But
this I will undertake, that, if you are the survivor, you shall be at the least ten thousand
pounds the better for me.  What, in the contrary case, I shall be the better for you, I leave
to you, as you shall think my kindness to you shall deserve.

But one thing, Madam, I shall be glad of, that Miss Howe might not live with us then--[she
need not know I write thus]--but go home to Mr. Hickman, as she is upon the point of marriage,
I hear: and if she behaves dutifully, as she should do, to us both, she shall be the better;
for I said so before.

You shall manage all things, both mine and your own; for I know but little of land-matters.
All my opposition to you shall be out of love, when I think you take too much upon you for
your health.

It will be very pretty for you, I should think, to have a man of experience, in a long winter's
evening, to sit down by you, and tell you stories of foreign parts, and the customs of the
nations he has consorted with.  And I have fine curiosities of the Indian growth, such as ladies
love, and some that even my niece Clary, when she was good, never saw. These, one by one, as
you are kind to me, (which I make no question of, because I shall be kind to you,) shall be
all yours.  Prettier entertainment by much, than sitting with a too smartish daughter, sometimes
out of humour; and thwarting, and vexing, as daughters will, (when women-grown especially,
as I have heard you often observe;) and thinking their parents old, without paying them the
reverence due to years; when, as in your case, I make no sort of doubt, they are young enough
to wipe their noses.  You understand me, Madam.

As for me myself, it will be very happy, and I am delighted with the thinking of it, to have,
after a pleasant ride, or so, a lady of like experience with myself to come home to, and but
one interest betwixt us: to reckon up our comings-in together; and what this day and this week
has produced--O how this will increase love!--most mightily will it increase it!--and I believe
I shall never love you enough, or be able to show you all my love.

I hope, Madam, there need not be such maiden niceties and hangings-off, as I may call them,
between us, (for hanging-off sake,) as that you will deny me a line or two to this proposal,
written down, although you would not answer me so readily when I spoke to you; your daughter
being, I suppose, hard by; for you looked round you, as if not willing to be overheard.  So
I resolved to write: that my writing may stand as upon record  for my upright meaning; being
none of your Lovelaces; you will mark that, Madam; but a downright, true, honest, faithful
Englishman.  So hope you will not disdain to write a line or two to this my proposal: and I
shall look upon it as a great honour, I will assure you, and be proud thereof.  What can I
say more?--for you are your own mistress, as I am my own master: and you shall always be your
own mistress, be pleased to mark that; for so a lady of your prudence and experience ought to be.

This is a long letter.  But the subject requires it; because I would not write twice where
once would do.  So would explain my sense and meaning at one time.

I have had writing in my head two whole months very near; but hardly knew how (being unpracticed
in these matters) to begin to write.  And now, good lady, be favourable to

Your most humble lover, and obedient servant, ANT. HARLOWE.

***

Here's a letter of courtship, my dear!--and let me subjoin to it, that if now, or hereafter,
I should treat this hideous lover, who is so free with me to my mother, with asperity, and
you should be disgusted at it, I shall think you don't give me that preference in your love
which you have in mine.

And now, which shall I first give you; the answer of my good mamma; or the dialogue that passed
between the widow mother, and the pert daughter, upon her letting the latter know that she
had a love-letter?

I think you shall have the dialogue.  But let me promise one thing; that if you think me too
free, you must not let it run in your head that I am writing of your uncle, or of my mother;
but of a couple of old lovers, no matter whom.  Reverence is too apt to be forgotten by children,
where the reverends forget first what belongs to their own characters.  A grave remark, and
therefore at your service, my dear.

Well then, suppose my mamma, (after twice coming into my closet to me, and as often going out,
with very meaning features, and lips ready to burst open, but still closed, as if by compulsion,
a speech going off in a slight cough, that never went near the lungs,) grown more resolute
the third time of entrance, and sitting down by me, thus begin:

Mother.   I have a very serious matter to talk with you upon, Nancy, when you are disposed
to attend to matters within ourselves, and not let matters without ourselves wholly engross you.

A good selve-ish speech!--But I thought that friendship, gratitude, and humanity, were matters
that ought to be deemed of the most intimate concern to us.  But not to dwell upon words.

Daughter.   I am now disposed to attend to ever thing my manna is disposed to say to me.

M.   Why then, child--why then, my dear--[and the good lady's face looked so plump, so smooth,
and so shining!]--I see you are all attention, Nancy!--But don't be surprised!--don't be uneasy!--But
I have--I have-- Where is it?--[and yet it lay next her heart, never another near it--so no
difficulty to have found it]--I have a letter, my dear!--[And out from her bosom it came: but
she still held it in her hand]--I have a letter, child.--It is--it is--it is from--from a gentleman,
I assure you!-- [lifting up her head, and smiling.]

There is no delight to a daughter, thought I, in such surprises as seem to be collecting. 
I will deprive my mother of the satisfaction of making a gradual discovery.

D.   From Mr. Antony Harlowe, I suppose, Madam?

M.   [Lips drawn closer: eye raised]  Why, my dear!--I cannot but own-- But how, I wonder,
could you think of Mr. Anthony Harlowe?

D.   How, Madam, could I think of any body else?

M.   How could you think of any body else?--[angry, and drawing back her face].  But do you
know the subject, Nancy?

D.   You have told it, Madam, by your manner of breaking it to me.  But, indeed, I question
not that he had two motives in his visits--both equally agreeable to me; for all that family
love me dearly.

M.   No love lost, if so, between you and them.  But this [rising] is what I get--so like your
papa!--I never could open my heart to him!

D.   Dear Madam, excuse me.  Be so good as to open your heart to me.-- I don't love the Harlowes--but
pray excuse me.

M.   You have put me quite out with your forward temper! [angrily sitting down again.]

D.   I will be all patience and attention.  May I be allowed to read his letter?

M.   I wanted to advise with you upon it.--But you are such a strange creature!--you are always
for answering one before one speaks!

D.   You'll be so good as to forgive me, Madam.--But I thought every body (he among the rest)
knew that you had always declared against a second marriage.

M.   And so I have.  But then it was in the mind I was in.  Things may offer----

I stared.

M.   Nay, don't be surprised!--I don't intend--I don't intend--

D.   Not, perhaps, in the mind you are in, Madam.

M.   Pert creature! [rising again]----We shall quarrel, I see!--There's no----

D.   Once more, dear Madam, I beg your excuse.  I will attend in silence. --Pray, Madam, sit
down again--pray do [she sat down.]--May I see the letter?

No; there are some things in it you won't like.--Your temper is known, I find, to be unhappy.
But nothing bad against you; intimations, on the contrary, that you shall be the better for
him, if you oblige him.

Not a living soul but the Harlowes, I said, thought me ill-tempered: and I was contented that
they should, who could do as they had done by the most universally acknowledged sweetness in
the world.

Here we broke out a little; but at last she read me some of the passages in the letter.  But
not the most mightily ridiculous: yet I could hardly keep my countenance neither, especially
when she came to that passage which mentions his sound health; and at which she stopped; she
best knew why--But soon resuming:

M.   Well now, Nancy, tell me what you think of it.

D.   Nay, pray, Madam, tell me what you think of it.

M.   I expect to be answered by an answer; not by a question!  You don't use to be so shy to
speak your mind.

D.   Not when my mamma commands me to do so.

M.   Then speak it now.

D.   Without hearing the whole of the letter?

M.   Speak to what you have heard.

D.   Why then, Madam----you won't be my mamma HOWE, if you give way to it.

M.   I am surprised at your assurance, Nancy!

D.   I mean, Madam, you will then be my mamma Harlowe.

M.   O dear heart!--But I am not a fool.

And her colour went and came.

D.   Dear Madam, [but, indeed, I don't love a Harlowe--that's what I mean,] I am your child,
and must be your child, do what you will.

M.   A very pert one, I am sure, as ever mother bore!  And you must be my child, do what I
will!--as much as to say, you would not, if you could help it, if I--

D.   How could I have such a thought!--It would be forward, indeed, if I had--when I don't
know what your mind is as to the proposal:--when the proposal is so very advantageous a one too.

M.   [Looking a little less discomposed] why, indeed, ten thousand pounds----

D.   And to be sure of outliving him, Madam!

M.   Sure!--nobody can be sure--but it is very likely that----

D.   Not at all, Madam.  You was going to read something (but stopped) about his constitution:
his sobriety is well known--Why, Madam, these gentlemen who have used the sea, and been in
different climates, and come home to relax from cares in a temperate one, and are sober--are
the likeliest to live long of any men in the world.  Don't you see that his very skin is a
fortification of buff?

M.   Strange creature!

D.   God forbid, that any body I love and honour should marry a man in hopes to bury him--but
suppose, Madam, at your time of life----

M.   My time of life?--Dear heart!--What is my time of life, pray?

D.   Not old, Madam; and that you are not, may be your danger!

As I hope to live (my dear) my mother smiled, and looked not displeased with me.

M.   Why, indeed, child--why, indeed, I must needs say--and then I should choose to do nothing
(forward as you are sometimes) to hurt you.

D.   Why, as to that, Madam, I can't expect that you should deprive yourself of any satisfaction--

M.   Satisfaction, my dear!--I don't say it would be a satisfaction--but could I do any thing
that would benefit you, it would perhaps be an inducement to hold one conference upon the subject.

D.   My fortune already will be more considerable than my match, if I am to have Mr. Hickman.

M.   Why so?--Mr. Hickman has fortune enough to entitle him to your's.

D.   If you think so, that's enough.

M.   Not but I should thin the worse of myself, if I desired any body's death; but I think,
as you say, Mr. Antony Harlowe is a healthy man, and bids fair for a long life.

Bless me, thought I, how shall I do to know whether this be an objection or a recommendation!

D.   Will you forgive me, Madam?

M.   What would the girl say? [looking as if she was half afraid to hear what.]

D.   Only, that if you marry a man of his time of life, you stand two chances instead of one,
to be a nurse at your time of life.

M.   Saucebox!

D.   Dear Madam!--What I mean is only that these healthy old men sometimes fall into lingering
disorders all at once.  And I humbly conceive, that the infirmities of age are uneasily borne
with, where the remembrance of the pleasanter season comes not in to relieve the healthier
of the two.

M.   A strange girl!--Yet his healthy constitution an objection just now! ---But I have always
told you, that you know either too much to be argued with, or too little for me to have patience
with you.

D.   I can't but say, I should be glad of your commands, Madam, how to behave myself to Mr.
Antony Harlowe next time he comes.

M.   How to behave yourself!--Why, if you retire with contempt of him, when he comes next,
it will be but as you have been used to do of late.

D.   Then he is to come again, Madam?

M.   And suppose he be?

D.   I can't help it, if it be your pleasure, Madam.  He desires a line in answer to his fine
letter.  If he come, it will be in pursuance of that line, I presume?

M.   None of your arch and pert leers, girl!--You know I won't bear them. I had a mind to hear
what you would say to this matter.  I have not written; but I shall presently.

D.   It is mighty good of you, Madam, (I hope the man will think so,) to answer his first application
by letter.--Pity he should write twice, if once will do.

M.   That fetch won't let you into my intention as to what I shall write. It is too saucily put.

D.   Perhaps I can guess at your intention, Madam, were it to become me so to do.

M.   Perhaps I would not make Mr. Hickman of any man; using him the worse for respecting me.

D.   Nor, perhaps, would I, Madam, if I liked his respects.

M.   I understand you.  But, perhaps, it is in your power to make me hearken, or not, to Mr.
Harlowe.

D.   Young men, who have probably a good deal of time before them need not be in haste for
a wife.  Mr. Hickman, poor man! must stay his time, or take his remedy.

M.   He bears more from you than a man ought.

D.   Then, I doubt, he gives a reason for the treatment he meets with.

M.   Provoking creature!

D.   I have but one request to make to you, Madam.

M.   A dutiful one, I suppose.  What is it, pray?

D.   That if you marry, I may be permitted to live single.

M.   Perverse creature, I'm sure!

D.   How can I expect, Madam, that you should refuse such terms?  Ten thousand pounds!--At
the least ten thousand pounds!--A very handsome proposal!--So many fine things too, to give
you one by one!--Dearest Madam, forgive me!--I hope it is not yet so far gone, that rallying
this man will be thought want of duty to you.

M.   Your rallying of him, and your reverence to me, it is plain, have one source.

D.   I hope not, Madam.  But ten thousand pounds----

M.   Is no unhandsome proposal.

D.   Indeed I think so.  I hope, Madam, you will not be behind-hand with him in generosity.

M.   He won't be ten thousand pounds the better for me, if he survive me.

D.   No, Madam; he can't expect that, as you have a daughter, and as he is a bachelor, and
has not a child!--Poor old soul!

M.   Old soul, Nancy!--And thus to call him for being a bachelor, not having a child!--Does
this become you?

D.   Not old soul for that, Madam--but half the sum; five thousand pounds; you can't engage
for less, Madam.

M.   That sum has your approbation then?  [Looking as if she'd be even with me].

D.   As he leaves it to your generosity, Madam, to reward his kindness to you, it can't be
less.--Do, dear Madam, permit me, without incurring your displeasure, to call him poor old
soul again.

M.   Never was such a whimsical creature!--[turning away to hide her involuntary smile, for
I believe I looked very archly; at least I intended to do so]--I hate that wicked sly look.
You give yourself very free airs--don't you?

D.   I snatched her hand, and kissed it--My dear Mamma, be not angry with your girl!--You have
told me, that you was very lively formerly.

M.   Formerly!  Good lack!--But were I to encourage his proposals, you may be sure, that for
Mr. Hickman's sake, as well as your's, I should make a wise agreement.

D.   You have both lived to years of prudence, Madam.

M.   Yes, I suppose I am an old soul too.

D.   He also is for making a wise agreement, or hinting at one, at least.

M.   Well, the short and the long I suppose is this: I have not your consent to marry.

D.   Indeed, Madam, you have not my wishes to marry.

M.   Let me tell you, that if prudence consists in wishing well to one's self, I see not but
the young flirts are as prudent as the old souls.

D.   Dear Madam, would you blame me, if to wish you not to marry Mr. Antony Harlowe, is to
wish well to myself?

M.   You are mighty witty.  I wish you were as dutiful.

D.   I am more dutiful, I hope, than witty; or I should be a fool as well as a saucebox.

M.   Let me be judge of both--Parents are only to live for their children, let them deserve
it or not.  That's their dutiful notion!

D.   Heaven forbid that I should wish, if there be two interests between my mother and me,
that my mother postpone her own for mine!--or give up any thing that would add to the real
comforts of her life to oblige me!-- Tell me, my dear Mamma, if you think the closing with
this proposal will?

M.   I say, that ten thousand pounds is such an acquisition to one's family, that the offer
of it deserves a civil return.

D.   Not the offer, Madam: the chance only!--if indeed you have a view to an increase of family,
the money may provide--

M.   You can't keep within tolerable bounds!--That saucy fleer I cannot away with--

D.   Dearest, dearest Madam, forgive me; but old soul ran in my head again!--Nay, indeed, and
upon my word, I will not be robbed of that charming smile!  And again I kissed her hand.

M.   Away, bold creature!  Nothing can be so provoking as to be made to smile when one would
choose, and ought, to be angry.

D.   But, dear Madam, if it be to be, I presume you won't think of it before next winter.

M.   What now would the pert one be at?

D.   Because he only proposes to entertain you with pretty stories of foreign nations in a
winter's evening.--Dearest, dearest Madam, let me have all the reading of his letter through.
I will forgive him all he says about me.

M.   It may be a very difficult thing, perhaps, for a man of the best sense to write a love-letter
that may not be cavilled at.

D.   That's because lovers in their letters hit not the medium.  They either write too much
nonsense, or too little.  But do you call this odd soul's letter [no more will I call him old
soul, if I can help it] a love-letter?

M.   Well, well, I see you are averse to this matter.  I am not to be your mother; you will
live single, if I marry.  I had a mind to see if generosity govern you in your views.  I shall
pursue my own inclinations; and if they should happen to be suitable to yours, pray let me
for the future be better rewarded by you than hitherto I have been.

And away she flung, without staying for a reply.--Vexed, I dare say, that I did not better
approve of the proposal--were it only that the merit of denying might have been all her own,
and to lay the stronger obligation upon her saucy daughter.

She wrote such a widow-like refusal when she went from me, as might not exclude hope in any
other wooer; whatever it may do in Mr. Tony Harlowe.

It will be my part, to take care to beat her off the visit she half- promises to make him (as
you will see in her answer) upon condition that he will withdraw his suit.  For who knows what
effect the old bachelor's exotics [far-fetched and dear-bought you know is a proverb] might
otherwise have upon a woman's mind, wanting nothing but unnecessaries, gewgaws, and fineries,
and offered such as are not easily to be met with, or purchased?

Well, but now I give you leave to read here, in this place, the copy of my mother's answer
to your uncle's letter.  Not one comment will I make upon it.  I know my duty better.  And
here, therefore, taking the liberty to hope, that I may, in your present less disagreeable,
though not wholly agreeable situation, provoke a smile from you, I conclude myself,

Your ever affectionate and faithful, ANNA HOWE.

MRS. ANNABELLA HOWE, TO ANTONY HARLY, ESQ.

MR. ANTONY HARLOWE, FRIDAY, MAY 19.

SIR,

It is not usual I believe for our sex to answer by pen and ink the first letter on these occasions.
The first letter!  How odd is that!  As if I expected another; which I do not.  But then I
think, as I do not judge proper to encourage your proposal, there is no reason why I should
not answer in civility, where so great a civility is intended.  Indeed, I was always of opinion
that a person was entitled to that, and not to ill usage, because he had a respect for me.
And so I have often and often told my daughter.

A woman I think makes but a poor figure in a man's eye afterwards, and does no reputation to
her sex neither, when she behaves like a tyrant to him beforehand.

To be sure, Sir, if I were to change my condition, I know not a gentleman whose proposal could
be more agreeable.  Your nephew and your nieces have enough without you: my daughter has a
fine fortune without me, and I should take care to double it, living or dying, were I to do
such a thing: so nobody need to be the worse for it.  But Nancy would not think so.

All the comfort I know of in children, is, that when young they do with us what they will,
and all is pretty in them to their very faults; and when they are grown up, they think their
parents must live for them only; and deny themselves every thing for their sakes.  I know Nancy
could not bear a father-in-law.  She would fly at the very thought of my being in earnest to
give her one.  Not that I stand in fear of my daughter neither.  It is not fit I should.  But
she has her poor papa's spirit. A very violent one that was.  And one would not choose, you
know, Sir, to enter into any affair, that, one knows, one must renounce a daughter for, or
she a mother--except indeed one's heart were much in it; which, I bless God, mine is not.

I have now been a widow these ten years; nobody to controul me: and I am said not to bear controul:
so, Sir, you and I are best as we are, I believe: nay, I am sure of it: for we want not what
either has; having both more than we know what to do with.  And I know I could not be in the
least accountable for any of my ways.

My daughter indeed, though she is a fine girl, as girls go, (she has too much sense indeed
for one of her sex, and knows she has it,) is more a check to me than one would wish a daughter
to be: for who would choose to be always snapping at each other?  But she will soon be married;
and then, not living together, we shall only come together when we are pleased, and stay away
when we are not; and so, like other lovers, never see any thing but the best sides of each other.

I own, for all this, that I love her dearly; and she me, I dare say: so would not wish to provoke
her to do otherwise.  Besides, the girl is so much regarded every where, that having lived
so much of my prime a widow, I would not lay myself open to her censures, or even to her indifference,
you know.

Your generous proposal requires all this explicitness.  I thank you for your good opinion of
me.  When I know you acquiesce with this my civil refusal [and indeed, Sir, I am as much in
earnest in it, as if I had spoken broader] I don't know but Nancy and I may, with your permission,
come to see your fine things; for I am a great admirer of rarities that come from abroad.

So, Sir, let us only converse occasionally as we meet, as we used to do, without any other
view to each other than good wishes: which I hope may not be lessened for this declining. 
And then I shall always think myself

Your obliged servant, ANNABELLA HOWE.

P.S.  I sent word by Mrs. Lorimer, that I would write an answer: but
   would take time for consideration.  So hope, Sir, you won't think it a
   slight, I did not write sooner.

LETTER XLIV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. SUNDAY, MAY 21.

I am too much disturbed in my mind to think of any thing but revenge; or I did intend to give
thee an account of Miss Harlowe's observations on the play.  Miss Harlowe's I say.  Thou knowest
that I hate the name of Harlowe; and I am exceedingly out of humour with her, and with her
saucy friend.

What's the matter now? thou'lt ask.

Matter enough; for while we were at the play, Dorcas, who had her orders, and a key to her
lady's chamber, as well as a master-key to her drawers and mahogany chest, closet-key and all,
found means to come at some of Miss Howe's last-written letters.  The vigilant wench was directed
to them by seeing her lady take a letter out of her stays, and put it to the others, before
she went out with me--afraid, as the women upbraidingly tell me, that I should find it there.

Dorcas no sooner found them, than she assembled three ready writers of the non-apparents; and
Sally, and she, and they employed themselves with the utmost diligence, in making extracts,
according to former directions, from these cursed letters, for my use.  Cursed, may I well
call them-- Such abuses!--Such virulence!--O this little fury Miss Howe!--Well might her saucy
friend (who has been equally free with me, or the occasion could not have been given) be so
violent as she lately was, at my endeavouring to come at one of these letters.

I was sure, that this fair-one, at so early an age, with a constitution so firm, health so
blooming, eyes so sparkling, expectations therefore so lively, and hope so predominating, could
not be absolutely, and from her own vigilance, so guarded, and so apprehensive, as I have found
her to be.

Sparkling eyes, Jack, when the poetical tribe have said all they can for them, are an infallible
sign of a rogue, or room for a rogue, in the heart.

Thou mayest go on with thy preachments, and Lord M. with his wisdom of nations, I am now more
assured of her than ever.  And now my revenge is up, and joined with my love, all resistance
must fall before it.  And most solemnly do I swear, that Miss Howe shall come in for her snack.

And here, just now, is another letter brought from the same little virulent devil.  I hope
to procure scripts from that too, very speedily, if it be put to the test; for the saucy fair-one
is resolved to go to church this morning; no so much from a spirit of devotion, I have reason
to think, as to try whether she can go out without check, controul, or my attention.

***

I have been denied breakfasting with her.  Indeed she was a little displeased with me last
night: because, on our return from the play, I obliged her to pass the rest of the night with
the women and me, in their parlour, and to stay till near one.  She told me at parting, that
she expected to have the whole next day to herself.  I had not read the extracts then; so I
had resolved to begin a new course, and, if possible, to banish all jealousy and suspicion
from her heart: and yet I had no reason to be much troubled at her past suspicions; since,
if a woman will continue with a man whom she suspects, when she can get from him, or thinks
she can, I am sure it is a very hopeful sign.

***

She is gone.  Slipt down before I was aware.  She had ordered a chair, on purpose to exclude
my personal attendance.  But I had taken proper precautions.  Will. attended her by consent;
Peter, the house-servant, was within Will.'s call.

I had, by Dorcas, represented her danger from Singleton, in order to dissuade her from going
at all, unless she allowed me to attend her; but I was answered, with her usual saucy smartness,
that if there were no cause of fear of being met with at the playhouse, when there were but
two playhouses, surely there was less at church, when there were so many churches.  The chairmen
were ordered to carry her to St. James's Church.

But she would not be so careless of obliging me, if she knew what I have already come at, and
how the women urge me on; for they are continually complaining of the restraint they lie under
in their behaviour; in their attendance; neglecting all their concerns in the front house;
and keeping this elegant back one entirely free from company, that she may have no suspicion
of them.  They doubt not my generosity, they say: But why for my own sake, in Lord M.'s style,
should I make so long a harvest of so little corn?

Women, ye reason well.  I think I will begin my operations the moment she comes in.

***

I have come at the letter brought her from Miss Howe to-day.  Plot, conjuration, sorcery, witchcraft,
all going forward!  I shall not be able to see this Miss Harlowe with patience.  As the nymphs
below ask, so do I, Why is night necessary?  And Sally and Polly upbraidingly remind me of
my first attempts upon themselves. All wore a jacket, trousers, tie and black vest, as if coming
from a funeral, and endured the hot rays of the sun with a unique philosophy, covered with flat-brimmed
black hats and towering glass, entirely as if he were strolling through
Regent Street or Hyde Park.

Two or three more wary of people brought their umbrellas open, two
others came down armed with large telescopes, and the rest, completely
dandies, flexible wielding sticks fashioned, hands covered with fine yellow
kid gloves.

Unquestionably, the English type lends itself much to the laughter in his excursions of all kinds,
but also must recognize that in this arrogant philosophy that distinguishes it even amid the
deep alpine English is not obvious, at bottom, another anything that two strong and beautiful feelings:
the personality, which is superimposed to the uses of others, and the country, that makes you
have the illusion of walking through a valley of the Alps is walking in park England or your
favorite street.

The interesting procession of civilians came out of the main church (it was Sunday) and going,
quiet but in a good mood, towards a house where they were going to celebrate a wedding. More than
three hundred civilians of both sexes marched ahead of us, in pairs or in small groups. The men, usually
more than medium height, slender and well muscled, were notable for the frank look at his blue
eyes, their faces rough but simple, open and nice and slow and steady gait. They wore all narrow
breeches jacket of coarse cloth, the color of brown or brown, straw
hats, painted black, narrow wings and Drinking cups monumental style,
and wore spiked boots thick or well-crafted wooden clogs.

Everyone in his mouth a huge porcelain pipe with paintings, tied a yellow
or black cane a foot in length and slope of the lower lip without
any hand support. As for women, their faces were more sweet and really
cute dresses.

All had hair Abundant golden-blond color, tied off the thread forming huge caps, or pending
on the shoulders in thick braids with large black ribbon ties. If the
largest number of farmers' not wearing on his head but his big black
hood with wide lace point, many had crowns of huge artificial roses.

They used all bodice and skirt of black cloth or chestnut color, with sleeves, chest and Indian
muslin apron or white. Also, all revealed his character and kindness
of modest prosperity in their round meat, her rosy cheeks, her candid
and affable smile and his blue eyes full of sweetness.

All this population of Grindelwald has its fixed habitations in the valley, then to Despite its
height and proximity of the nevedos is protected against many storms. In the summer cultivate
some fields, and other up to the mountains to cut wood or caring for cattle and cheese making.
In the winter go down to your district and villages of the valley, and while the strongest are
engaged in descending the mountains cut wood, others withdraw into their homes to work embroidery
and lace, wooden curio making, cutting and polishing glass, etc..
The day was declining and must return to Interlaken: assemble again
on our stroller and started the descent, giving a greeting of admiration
to the show wonderfully beautiful and varied than we had seen so delicious.

The sky was full of light and splendor and the morning breeze ruffled the waves and the mountains
we came loaded with the rich aromas that emanate from the pine forests,
we climbed on board a steamer funny, which soon began to cut like
a swan brown beautiful waters of Lake Brienz.

More than forty we were passengers on the deck at the stern, and not
a few were clustered toward the bow.

Some went directly to disembark in Brienz, at the upper end of the lake, others were to stop
at the little port Boenigen intermediary, those in greatest number went to visit Incidentally,
for some hours, the beautiful waterfall Giessbach.

On the right we could see distinctly the broad band of gray water Lütschine, flocking on the left bank of
the lake and a trail of ash lying on the green carpet in a pasture. Later, the same side, we almost
touching the gorgeous little island of Boenigen or Schnecken-Insel
(Ile-de-los-snails), which resembles a miniature made by mermaids.

Lake of Brienz, perfectly similar in color to the Thun and produced by the same river Aare, is the
least significant among the first order, but the deepest of all of Switzerland.
It measures only about 15 kilometers long, N.-O. S.-E. to by 6 wide,
and its depth reaches the prodigious extent of 600 meters in places.
The lake receives several rivers, of which the most curious is that
outputs to the waters of Faule-see (or Lake-rotted), located above
the mountains, torrent lost in underground cavities but does not reappear
when thrown into the lake of Brienz.

The mountains that determine the basin of this are much more rugged,
wild and higher than the lake of Thun, and rise suddenly in great
embankments chopped peak seem to threaten to collapse on the airwaves.

Sinembargo, in the long circumference of the basin are about ten or twelve villages, of which the
most notable are those of Brienz and Boenigen, with a total population of about 7,000 inhabitants:
some picturesquely perched on steep hills and the foot with dense pine forests, and other resting softly
on the shores of the lake. As we approached the waterfall Giessbach the show we were surprised
by his grace imponderable. There is nothing there that majesty and sublime cataract Tequendama,
capable, like others in Colombia, to deeply religious poet and an atheist (if there can be any) just to show the
colossal wonder of Creation.

No: the interest of the Giessbach, some of the best waterfalls in Switzerland, is grace, caprice, the
variety delightful. In his presence one can love, talk, laugh and flirt, while in front of Tequendama
not allowed but look in awe, admire and ponder the infinite. When they climbed the little port of
Giessbach, almost at the foot of the waterfall, all passengers we scattered by the various intersections
of the hill, thrill-seekers to be satisfied our curiosity. The mountain,
covered with thick forests, open in a slope that produces something of
a valley, about 60 or more feet above the Lake, with its lower limit
in the huge rock overlooking the shore, and rising from the inside
through the thick mountain to a considerable height well.

At the end of that lean is preceded by an elegant beautiful terraces, and in front of It precipitated
the fall, giving rocketed among vegetable vast shadowy alcoves hung with lichens and mosses.
There, each traveler is placed successively on the balcony or balconies of stone at intervals
can look closely at the waterfall. The torrent precipitated from the top of the mountain by a narrow
opening, resembling a huge jet to be launched from a roof by stone balconies and covered with garlands
studded with floating draperies of severe vegetables. It is composed
of a succession of cascading falls or fourteen waterfalls, proportions
and different aspects, forming an immense staircase eddies and rocks,
which are thrown on the water in brilliant plumage, enormous jets
in spirals or iridescent crystal clouds of fine rain If the assembly
seen from the front , is charming, very delightful experience to be
placed under one of the most enormous rocks, where it turns a passage
practiced in the hollow of the rock, feeling a wrapped by the flood
that jumps over, forming a superb vault foaming liquid fits nicely
in the dual context of forests.

The contrast is very sensitive if you leave one of the waterfall to climb to the viewpoint is on the
verge of powerful rock that stands on the banks of lake. From there, his eyes covered with a supremely
beautiful landscape. On the right, at N.-O., is the upper valley of the Aar or Hasli, turbid river input
to the lake, and Brienz and some other peoples to the left, the beautiful
valley of Interlaken, and beyond the lake of Thun, in front, a huge
fortress of rustic mountain majesty in the background, the total length
of the lake, quiet, asleep and alone, it seems as indifferent to the
torrent of anger that launches Giessbach sparkling streams, and whose
quiet love misleading travelers marveled that the shade of the pines
provides the abyss of liquid emerald is at his feet. add to all that
the whistle of the locomotive of some steam over the lake, waking
the echoes of those breasts of granite and projecting between the
sky and waves its white plume of smoke, and you will have the full
picture that stimulated our admiration.

* * * * * Brienz is a small village of about 1,800 residents, quite lively and curious, thanks
to his considerable trade in excellent cheeses, the manufacture of wooden sculptures and curiosities,
its old ruined castle, its renowned singers of national songs, and
neighboring cascade Muhlbach measuring 360 meters high.

We stopped in Brienz hardly the time to snack and to pull a cart which was to take us down the valley of the
Aar in the direction of the canton of Unterwalden, through the neck Brünig. At the foot of the mountain
at the end of a bridge across the Aar, we alighted from the small trap:
the driver became muleteer and guides, left the carriage to the side
of the turnpike road, saddled the two robust and dull shot horses,
mounted, and started to climb the hill, enclosed by modest farmhouses
and rows of walnut trees of stature.

After an hour of slow and lazy for a rough stony path, we boarded
a flying close to the side of the encircled hill. All artificial vegetation
had disappeared, and walked to the huge landslides through the snows and
rains occur at the foot of patches of spruce damaged by the hurricanes.

Looking back we watched the romantic view of Lake Brienz, had the joker down Hasli Valley (in the center delay
Meyring) crossed by the Aare and dominated by towering mountain walls
perpendicular to either side.

It was interesting the contrast of objects composing the picture. The Aar
was very grown up and out of the womb, had gray waves inundated with
many portions of the valley, dragging broken huts and fences, lots
of pieces of wood, whole trees and some animals.

In the rest of the valley was all happy and smiling, thanks to the various fields and villages,
hamlets and farmhouses scattered in every way. Up, to S.-E., highlighted
in the distance the magnificent landscape from which arises Aar , but
close in the second term perspective, swarms of pine-covered mountains
and in the foreground, dominating the valley, stood as an artificial
wall, huge, bare rock and melancholy inks where parallel plunge from
great heights, like burnished steel belts, beautiful waterfalls Oltschibach,
Falchernbach Wandelbach and [20]. Thus, the overall picture was one
of desolation, sadness and majesty and picturesque landscapes, summarizing various
kinds of poetry.

[20] termination means in German bach waterfall or stream. For the rest, Hasli valley, whose upper region
Aar born and ends the territory of the canton of Bern is one of the most famous in Switzerland.
It is unique, according to the Chronicle and comments made, that
all its population is composed of the remains of two pure breeds,
originating in the North under an immigration to 6,000 and 1,200 Swedish
Ostfrisones which came to settle in the valley in the fifth century
All this population, such beautiful and strong, professed the reformed
religion, while at the opposite side of the mountain that we Trasmonte
the dominant Catholic religion with the same exclusion.

Perhaps among social phenomena there is none more curious and worthy of attention than the
geography of religions, so mysterious in appearance. In Switzerland, more than any other country
in Europe, far from the actual device of conventional religions, this phenomenon can be observed
within populations rustic and simple. Indeed , we see that between two valleys separated by a high mountain,
or on a plain crossed by a creek on one side without competition reigns Catholicism and Calvinism on the
other. And sinembargo topography, climate and productions are exactly the same or similar, race
and language around them, and differences in institutions and customs
insensitive.

What influence has been able to determine the absolute religious discord?
Evidently the action or historical pressure governments. However you
say to the contrary, it is governments that make to the people, and
that is why the responsibility of the former is infinitely greater
than that of seconds.

Let the reader I disguise this moral digression (perhaps inappropriate
since heart of a mountain) and deign to join Brünig Trasmonte neck,
leaving the magnificent valley of Four-Cantons, to through a jungle
filled with rumors, rich and wild beauty, majesty and mystery.

The jungle was immense and her beauty only comparable to the poetry of
his loneliness. We walked without seeing a ray of sun, low arches and
pavilions endless dark greens colossal colonnade resting on fir, covered
with lichens and mosses. No extraneous noise mingled with the echoes
of the footsteps of our horses and to that vague rumor, without apparent
cause but eternal, which is the mysterious voice of the forests.

But from time to time felt the explosions caused by mines in the
rocks drilled deep in the jungle some men, opening a highway through
the middle of the abyss. Then silence reigned, when not interrupted
at times melancholy, guttural singing of our guide, and, walking
meditation, we believed wandering wild in a world entirely .... Error!
beside us, above our heads, was also from tree to tree, hiding under
the branches, a companion, an invisible spirit, perhaps we would say
something to him but we could perceive its wonderful language or read
his mind.

" Who was this mysterious fellow? It was just electric telegraph wire, wire, busy as we are
a fluid and a thought, natural and social soul, attesting to the presence
of civilization at the bottom of the lonely jungle .... Every people, as
I that not long ago, is revealed in how they take the great progress
of civilization.

The refined France and England the positive spin their electric wire poles
for very long series of artificial, painted and filled with pieces
of china or crystal fluid isolate and separate the wires.

In Switzerland do not take the pain of running those works, the telegraph to accommodate every
whim of the topography, and the series of your posts are the natural
colonnades of pine forests, the most luxurious rooms of the poetic
Switzerland.

* * * * * We had entered the territory of the canton of Unterwalden when Brünig descended from
the mountain, toward the beautiful valley of Lungern. The sun had
hidden behind the gigantic mass of rugged mountains that stretch from
the group of Giswylerstock to Mount Pilate.

In some parts of the road, where the forest is cleared up, looked out a piece of the lower horizon
and we could perfectly destinguir the configuration of the valleys and lakes from the foot of Brünig
basin are directed towards the capricious, irregular and Grand Lake Lucerne or the Four-cantons. Unterwalden
The canton consists of two half-cantons cantons or twins, which rotate
parallel to the direction of S.-E. to N.-O., taking as a whole looks
severe and funny simultaneously, by the juxtaposition of mountains
and buttresses that sail in all directions and its numerous and smiling
valleys, some of which are small lakes fall more poetic aspect.

The twins in that country are very unequal proportions: thus the
bottom of Nidwalden half canton (Valles-de-Down) hardly covers a quarter of
the total territory, and has no exclusive lakes, although it has banks
in the Four-Cantonese and Alpnach. The chain of mountains divides Kernwald,
but the brotherhood is maintained even in the names of its major rivers, called
both Aa [21]. The territory of the two half-cantons stretches from the
magnificent landscape of the Titlis, the E. to Mount Pilatus, the
west, and from the heights of Bothorn, south, up the left bank of
Lake of the Four-Cantons, to the north, near the famous site Grütli;
based limits and the cantons of Uri, Bern, Lucerne and Schwyz, and
measuring 48 kilometers at its greatest length, 36 in its widest and
687 square kilometers of total area.

[21] Celtic word meaning water, and with the addition of an r (aar)
means stream or river.

The half-canton we had more in sight and we were going to go in the
most notable was that of Obwalden (Valles-de-Up), which has its own
capital.

From the top of the mountain we watch the narrow valley of the Aa and very cheerful than in
the bottom of which appeared, with the melancholy serenity of the
waters that do not reflect any ray of light, Lungern lakes, Sarnen
and Alpnach [22], links together by the film's funniest Aa, and three
plates of aluminum mixed in a magnificent imitation enamel bracelet
emerald.

Nothing is more peaceful and graceful in its kind of Lungern the valley, surrounded by very high
mountains on three sides like a street end, whose glossy green patch of grass and fall within beautifully
bleak spruce forest crisscrossed by some landslides. The people of Lungern, which has little more
than 1,400 people, is as widespread in the bottom of the valley and the
foot the gentle slopes that climb towards the mountain from one side,
showing all objects in the grace and candor of its neighbors.

Further down is the lake, a mile long or a little more, and some 250 meters wide, whose graceful basin formed
by rocks and little lawn surrounded by farms.

[22] Alpnach Lake, which once was, no doubt, fully insulated, has degenerated into Gulf of Four-cantons.
At one time this small lake was more considerable, but Lungern neighbors
who lack enough arable land, wanted to devote his bed dissect the
crop. from 1790 to 1836 he carried out from time to time expensive
jobs, and was able to practice on the rock an underground tunnel 439
meters long which was to give an outlet to the water.

But the gallery was produced at a sufficient depth, and although a considerable area of the basin
was free, greatly lowering the water level, could never take any part of the bed. The lake was tiny
and dilapidated, was spent in vain work and money, and agriculture gained nothing. walking in the
little lawn of Lungern, in the midst of graceful houses and farms, we are attracted by a small lovely
country setting worthy of the best artist's brush.


But, 'such men as myself, are the men that women do not naturally hate.' --True as the gospel,
Jack!--The truth is out at last.  Have I not always told thee so?  Sweet creatures and true
christians these young girls! They love their enemies.  But rakes in their hearts all of them!
Like turns to like; that's the thing.  Were I not well assured of the truth of this observation
of the vixen, I should have thought it worth while, if not to be a good man, to be more of
an hypocrite, than I found it needful to be.

But in the letter I came at to-day, while she was at church, her scheme is further opened;
and a cursed one it is.

'Tis my pride to subdue girls who know too much to doubt their knowledge; and to convince them,
that they know too little, to defend themselves from the inconveniencies of knowing too much.

How passion drives a man on! (proceeds he).--I have written a prodigious quantity in a very
few hours!  Now my resentments are warm, I will see, and perhaps will punish, this proud, this
double-armed beauty.  I have sent to tell her, that I must be admitted to sup with her.  We
have neither of us dined.  She refused to drink tea in the afternoon: and I believe neither
of us will have much stomach to our supper.

I was at the play last night with Mr. Lovelace and Miss Horton.  It is, you know, a deep and
most affecting tragedy in the reading.  You have my remarks upon it, in the little book you
made me write upon the principal acting-plays.  You will not wonder, that Miss Horton, as well
as I, was greatly moved at the representation, when I tell you, and have some pleasure in telling
you, that Mr. Lovelace himself was very sensibly touched with some of the most affecting scenes.
I mention this in praise of the author's performance; for I take Mr. Lovelace to be one of
the most hard-hearted men in the world.  Upon my word, my dear, I do.

His behaviour, however, on this occasion, and on our return, was unexceptionable; only that
he would oblige me to stay to supper with the women below, when we came back, and to sit up
with him and them till near one o'clock this morning.  I was resolved to be even with him;
and indeed I am not very sorry to have the pretence; for I love to pass the Sundays by myself.

To have the better excuse to avoid his teasing, I am ready dressed to go to church this morning.
I will go only to St. James's church, and in a chair; that I may be sure I can go out and come
in when I please, without being intruded upon by him, as I was twice before.

***

NEAR NINE O'CLOCK.

I have your kind letter of yesterday.  He knows I have.  And I shall expect, that he will be
inquisitive next time I see him after your opinions of his proposals.  I doubted not your approbation
of them, and had written an answer on that presumption; which is ready for him.  He must study
for occasions of procrastination, and to disoblige me, if now any thing happens to set us at
variance again.

He is very importunate to see me.  He has desired to attend me to church. He is angry that
I have declined to breakfast with him.  I am sure that I should not have been at my own liberty
if I had.  I bid Dorcas tell him, that I desired to have this day to myself.  I would see him
in the morning as early as he pleased.  She says, she knows not what ails him, but that he
is out of humour with every body.

He has sent again in a peremptory manner.  He warns me of Singleton.  I sent him word, that
if he was not afraid of Singleton at the playhouse last night, I need not at church to-day:
so many churches to one playhouse.  I have accepted of his servant's proposed attendance. 
But he is quite displeased, it seems.  I don't care.  I will not be perpetually at his insolent
beck.--Adieu my dear, till I return.  The chair waits. He won't stop me, sure, as I go down to it.

***

I did not see him as I went down.  He is, it seems, excessively out of humour.  Dorcas says,
not with me neither, she believes: but something has vexed him.  This is perhaps to make me
dine with him.  But I will not, if I can help it.  I shan't get rid of him for the rest of
the day, if I do.

***

He was very earnest to dine with me.  But I was resolved to carry this one small point; and
so denied to dine myself.  And indeed I was endeavouring to write to my cousin Morden; and
had begun three different times, without being able to please myself.

He was very busy in writing, Dorcas says; and pursued it without dining, because I denied him
my company.

H afterwards demanded, as I may say, to be admitted to afternoon-tea with me: and appealed
by Dorcas to his behaviour to me last night; as if I sent him word by her, he thought he had
a merit in being unexceptionable. However, I repeated my promise to meet him as early as he
pleased in the morning, or to breakfast with him.

Dorcas says, he raved: I heard him loud, and I heard his servant fly from him, as I thought.
You, my dearest friend, say, in one of yours,* that you must have somebody to be angry at,
when your mother sets you up.  I should be very loth to draw comparisons; but the workings
of passion, when indulged, are but too much alike, whether in man or woman.

* See Letter X. of this volume, Parag. 2.

***

He has just sent me word, that he insists upon supping with me.  As we had been in a good train
for several days past, I thought it not prudent to break with him for little matters.  Yet,
to be, in a manner, threatened into his will, I know not how to bear that.

While I was considering, he came up, and, tapping at my door, told me, in a very angry tone,
he must see me this night.  He could not rest, till he had been told what he had done to deserve
the treatment I gave him.

Treatment I gave him! a wretch!  Yet perhaps he has nothing new to say to me.  I shall be very
angry with him.

***

[As the Lady could not know what Mr. Lovelace's designs were, nor the
   cause of his ill humour, it will not be improper to pursue the subject
   from his lette.

Having described his angry manner of demanding, in person, her company at
   supper, he proceeds as follows:]

''Tis hard, answered the fair perverse, that I am to be so little my own mistress.  I will
meet you in the dining-room half an hour hence.

'I went down to wait the half hour.  All the women set me hard to give her cause for this tyranny.
They demonstrated, as well from the nature of the sex, as of the case, that I had nothing to
hope for from my tameness, and could meet with no worse treatment, were I to be guilty of the
last offence.  They urge me vehemently to try at least what effect some greater familiarities
than I had ever taken with her would have: and their arguments being strengthened by my just
resentments on the discoveries I had made, I was resolved to take some liberties, as they were
received, to take still greater, and lay all the fault upon her tyranny.  In this humour I
went up, and never had paralytic so little command of his joints, as I had, while I walked
about the dining-room, attending her motions.

'With an erect mien she entered, her face averted, her lovely bosom swelling, and the more
charmingly protuberant for the erectness of her mien.  O Jack! that sullenness and reserve
should add to the charms of this haughty maid! but in every attitude, in every humour, in every
gesture, is beauty beautiful.  By her averted face, and indignant aspect, I saw the dear insolent
was disposed to be angry--but by the fierceness of mine, as my trembling hand seized hers,
I soon made fear her predominant passion.  And yet the moment I beheld her, my heart was dastardized;
and my reverence for the virgin purity, so visible in her whole deportment, again took place.
Surely, Belford, this is an angel. And yet, had she not been known to be a female, they would
not from babyhood have dressed her as such, nor would she, but upon that conviction, have continued
the dress.

'Let me ask you, Madam, I beseech you tell me, what I have done to deserve this distant treatment?

'And let me ask you, Mr. Lovelace, why are my retirements to be thus invaded?--What can you
have to say to me since last night, that I went with you so much against my will to the play?
and after sitting up with you, equally against my will, till a very late hour?

'This I have to say, Madam, that I cannot bear to be kept at this distance from you under the
same roof.

'Under the same roof, Sir!--How came you----

'Hear me out, Madam--[letting go her trembling hands, and snatching them back again with an
eagerness that made her start]--I have a thousand things to say, to talk of, relating to our
present and future prospects; but when I want to open my whole soul to you, you are always
contriving to keep me at a distance.  You make me inconsistent with myself.  Your heart is
set upon delays.  You must have views that you will not own. Tell me, Madam, I conjure you
to tell me, this moment, without subterfuge or reserve, in what light am I to appear to you
in future?  I cannot bear this distance.  The suspense you hold me in I cannot bear.

'In what light, Mr. Lovelace! [visibly terrified.]  In no bad light, I hope.--Pray, Mr. Lovelace,
do not grasp my hands so hard [endeavouring to withdraw them.]  Pray let me go.--

'You hate me, Madam--

'I hate nobody, Sir--

'You hate me, Madam, repeated I.

'Instigated and resolved, as I came up, I wanted some new provocation. The devil indeed, as
soon as my angel made her appearance, crept out of my heart; but he had left the door open,
and was no farther off than my elbow.

'You come up in no good temper, I see, Mr. Lovelace.--But pray be not violent--I have done
you no hurt.--Pray be not violent--

'Sweet creature! and I clasped one arm about her, holding one hand in my other.--You have done
me no hurt.--I could have devoured her--but restraining myself--You have done me the greatest
hurt!--In what have I deserved the distance you keep me at?--I knew not what to say.

'She struggled to disengage herself.--Pray, Mr. Lovelace, let me withdraw.  I know not why
this is.  I know not what I have done to offend you.  I see you are come with a design to quarrel
with me.  If you would not terrify me by the ill humour you are in, permit me to withdraw.
I will hear all you have to say another time--to-morrow morning, as I sent you word.--But indeed
you frighten me--I beseech you, if you have any value for me, permit me to withdraw.

'Night, mid-night, is necessary, Belford.  Surprise, terror, must be necessary to the ultimate
trial of this charming creature, say the women below what they will.  I could not hold my purposes.
This was not the first time that I had intended to try if she could forgive.

'I kissed her hand with a fervour, as if I would have left my lips upon it.--Withdraw, then,
dearest, and ever-dear creature.  Indeed I entered in a very ill humour.  I cannot bear the
distance at which you so causelessly keep me.  Withdraw, Madam, since it is your will to withdraw;
and judge me generously; judge me but as I deserve to be judged; and let me hope to meet you
to-morrow morning early in such a temper as becomes our present situation, and my future hopes.

'And so saying, I conducted her to the door, and left her there.  But, instead of going down
to the women, I went into my own chamber, and locked myself in; ashamed of being awed by her
majestic loveliness, and apprehensive virtue, into so great a change of purpose, notwithstanding
I had such just provocations from the letters of her saucy friend, formed on her own representations
of facts and situations between herself and me.

***

[The Lady (dated Sunday night) thus describes her terrors, and Mr.
   Lovelace's behaviour, on the occasion.]

On my entering the dining-room, he took my hand in his, in such a humour, I saw plainly he
was resolved to quarrel with me--And for what?--What had I done to him?--I never in my life
beheld in any body such wild, such angry, such impatient airs.  I was terrified; and instead
of being as angry as I intended to be, I was forced to be all mildness.  I can hardly remember
what were his first words, I was so frighted.  But you hate me, Madam! you hate me, Madam!
were some of them--with such a fierceness--I wished myself a thousand miles distant from him.
I hate nobody, said I: I thank God I hate nobody--You terrify me, Mr. Lovelace--let me leave
you.--The man, my dear, looked quite ugly--I never saw a man look so ugly as passion made him
look--and for what?--And so he grasped my hands!-- fierce creature;--he so grasped my hands!
In short, he seemed by his looks, and by his words (once putting his arms about me) to wish
me to provoke him.  So that I had nothing to do but to beg of him (which I did repeatedly)
to permit me to withdraw: and to promise to meet him at his own time in the morning.

It was with a very ill grace that he complied, on that condition; and at parting he kissed
my hand with such a savageness, that a redness remains upon it still.

Do you not think, my dear, that I have reason to be incensed at him, my situation considered?
Am I not under a necessity, as it were, of quarrelling with him; at least every other time
I see him?  No prudery, no coquetry, no tyranny in my heart, or in my behaviour to him, that
I know of.  No affected procrastination.  Aiming at nothing but decorum. He as much concerned,
and so he ought to think, as I, to have that observed.  Too much in his power: cast upon him
by the cruelty of my relations.  No other protection to fly to but his.  One plain path before
us; yet such embarrasses, such difficulties, such subjects for doubt, for cavil, for uneasiness;
as fast as one is obviated, another to be introduced, and not by myself--know not how introduced--What
pleasure can I propose to myself in meeting such a wretch?

Perfect for me, my dearest Miss Howe, perfect for me, I beseech you, your kind scheme with
Mrs. Townsend; and I will then leave this man.

My temper, I believe, is changed.  No wonder if it be.  I question whether ever it will be
what it was.  But I cannot make him half so uneasy by the change, as I am myself.  See you
not how, from step to step, he grows upon me?--I tremble to look back upon his encroachments.
And now to give me cause to apprehend more evil from him, than indignation will permit me to
express!--O my dear, perfect your scheme, and let me fly from so strange a wretch!

Yet, to be first an eloper from my friends to him, as the world supposes; and now to be so
from him [to whom I know not!] how hard to one who ever endeavoured to shun intricate paths!
But he must certainly have views in quarrelling with me thus, which he dare not own!--Yet what
can they be?-- I am terrified but to think of what they may be!

Let me but get from him!--As to my reputation, if I leave him--that is already too much wounded
for me, now, to be careful about any thing, but how to act so as that my own heart shall not
reproach me.  As to the world's censure, I must be content to suffer that--an unhappy composition,
however.--What a wreck have my fortunes suffered, to be obliged to throw overboard so many
valuables, to preserve, indeed, the only valuable!--A composition that once it would have half
broken my heart to think there would have been the least danger that I should be obliged to
submit to.

You, my dear, could not be a stranger to my most secret failings, although you would not tell
me of them.  What a pride did I take in the applause of every one!--What a pride even in supposing
I had not that pride!--Which concealed itself from my unexamining heart under the specious
veil of humility, doubling the merit to myself by the supposed, and indeed imputed, gracefulness
in the manner of conferring benefits, when I had not a single merit in what I did, vastly overpaid
by the pleasure of doing some little good, and impelled, as I may say, by talents given me--for
what!--Not to be proud of.

So, desirous, in short, to be considered as an example!  A vanity which my partial admirers
put into my head!--And so secure in my own virtue!

I am punished enough, enough mortified, for this my vanity--I hope, enough, if it so please
the all-gracious inflictor: since now, I verily think, I more despise myself for my presumptuous
self-security, as well as vanity, than ever I secretly vaunted myself on my good inclinations:
secretly, I say, however; for, indeed, I had not given myself leisure to reflect, till I was
thus mortified, how very imperfect I was; nor how much truth there is in what divines tell
us, that we sin in our best performances.

But I was very young.--But here let me watch over myself again: for in those four words, I
was very young, is there not a palliation couched, that were enough to take all efficacy from
the discovery and confession?

What strange imperfect beings!--but self here, which is at the bottom of all we do, and of
all we wish, is the grand misleader.

I will not apologize to you, my dear, for these grave reflections.  Is it not enough to make
the unhappy creature look into herself, and endeavour to detect herself, who, from such a high
reputation, left to proud and presumptuous self, should by one thoughtless step, be brought
to the dreadful situation I am in?

Let me, however, look forward: to despond would be to add sin to sin. And whom have I to raise
me up, whom to comfort me, if I desert myself?-- Thou, O Father, who, I hope, hast not yet
deserted, hast not yet cursed me!--For I am thine!--It is fit that mediation should supply
the rest.--

***

I was so disgusted with him, as well as frighted by him, that on my return to my chamber, in
a fit of passionate despair, I tore almost in two the answer I had written to his proposals.

I will see him in the morning, because I promised I would.  But I will go out, and that without
him, or any attendant.  If he account not tolerably for his sudden change of behaviour, and
a proper opportunity offer of a private lodging in some creditable house, I will not any more
return to this:--at present I think so.--And there will I either attend the perfecting of your
scheme; or, by your epistolary mediation, make my own terms with the wretch; since it is your
opinion, that I must be his, and cannot help myself: or, perhaps, take a resolution to throw
myself at once into Lady Betty's protection; and this will hinder him from making his insolently-threatened
visit to Harlowe-place.

[The Lady writes again on Monday evening; and gives her friend an account
   of all that passed between herself and Mr. Lovelace that day; and of
   her being terrified out of her purpose, of going out: but Mr.
   Lovelace's next letters giving a more ample account of all, hers are
   omitted.

It is proper, however, to mention, that she re-urges Miss Howe (from the
   dissatisfaction she has reason for from what passed between Mr.
   Lovelace and herself) to perfect her scheme in relation to Mrs.
   Townsend.  She concludes this letter in these words:]

I should say something of your last favour (but a few hours ago received) and of your dialogue
with your mother--Are you not very whimsical, my dear?  I have but two things to wish for on
this occasion.--The one, that your charming pleasantry had a better subject than that you find
for it in this dialogue--the other, that my situation were not such, as must too often damp
that pleasantry in you, and will not permit me to enjoy it, as I used to do.  Be, however,
happy in yourself, though you cannot in

Your CLARISSA HARLOWE.

LETTER XLVII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. MONDAY MORNING, MAY 22.

No generosity in this lady.  None at all.  Wouldst thou not have thought, that after I had
permitted her to withdraw, primed for mischief as I was, she would meet me next morning early;
and that with a smile; making me one of her best courtesies?

I was in the dining-room before six, expecting her.  She opened not her door.  I went up stairs
and down; and hemm'd; and called Will.; called Dorcas; threw the doors hard to; but still she
opened not her door.  Thus till half an hour after eight, fooled I away my time; and then (breakfast
ready) I sent Dorcas to request her company.

But I was astonished, when (following the wench, as she did at the first invitation) I saw
her enter dressed, all but her gloves, and those and her fan in her hand; in the same moment
bidding Dorcas direct Will. to get her a chair to the door.

Cruel creature, thought I, to expose me thus to the derision of the women below!

Going abroad, Madam!

I am, Sir.

I looked cursed silly, I am sure.  You will breakfast first, I hope, Madam; and a very humble
strain; yet with an hundred tender looks in my heart.

Had she given me more notice of her intention, I had perhaps wrought myself up to the frame
I was in the day before, and begun my vengeance. And immediately came into my head all the
virulence that had been transcribed for me from Miss Howe's letters, and in that letter which
I had transcribed myself.

Yes, she would drink one dish; and then laid her gloves and fan in the window just by.

I was perfectly disconcerted.  I hemm'd, and was going to speak several times; but I knew not
in what key.  Who's modest now! thought I.  Who's insolent now!--How a tyrant of a woman confounds
a bashful man!  She was acting Miss Howe, I thought; and I the spiritless Hickman.

At last, I will begin, thought I.

She a dish--I a dish.

Sip, her eyes her own, she; like a haughty and imperious sovereign, conscious of dignity, every
look a favour.

Sip, like her vassal, I; lips and hands trembling, and not knowing that I sipp'd or tasted.

I was--I was--I sipp'd--(drawing in my breath and the liquor together, though I scalded my
mouth with it) I was in hopes, Madam--

Dorcas came in just then.--Dorcas, said she, is a chair gone for?

Damn'd impertinence, thought I, thus to put me out in my speech!  And I was forced to wait
for the servant's answer to the insolent mistress's question.

William is gone for one, Madam.

This cost me a minute's silence before I could begin again.  And then it was with my hopes,
and my hopes, and my hopes, that I should have been early admitted to--

What weather is it, Dorcas? said she, as regardless of me as if I had not been present.

A little lowering, Madam--The sun is gone in--it was very fine half an hour ago.

I had no patience.  Up I rose.  Down went the tea-cup, saucer and all-- Confound the weather,
the sunshine, and the wench!--Begone for a devil, when I am speaking to your lady, and have
so little opportunity given me.

Up rose the saucy-face, half-frighted; and snatched from the window her gloves and fan.

You must not go, Madam!--Seizing her hand--by my soul you must not--

Must not, Sir!--But I must--you can curse your maid in my absence, as well as if I were present----Except--except--you
intend for me, what you direct to her.

Dearest creature, you must not go--you must not leave me--Such determined scorn! such contempts!--Questions
asked your servant of no meaning but to break in upon me--I cannot bear it!

Detain me not [struggling.]  I will not be withheld.  I like you not, nor your ways.  You sought
to quarrel with me yesterday, for no reason in the world that I can think of, but because I
was too obliging.  You are an ungrateful man; and I hate you with my whole heart, Mr. Lovelace!

Do not make me desperate, Madam.  Permit me to say, that you shall not leave me in this humour.
Wherever you go, I will attend you.  Had Miss Howe been my friend, I had not been thus treated.
It is but too plain to whom my difficulties are owing.  I have long observed, that every letter
you received from her, makes an alteration in your behaviour to me.  She would have you treat
me, as she treats Mr. Hickman, I suppose: but neither does that treatment become your admirable
temper to offer, nor me to receive.

This startled her.  She did not care to have me think hardly of Miss Howe.

But recollecting herself, Miss Howe, said she, is a friend to virtue, and to good men.  If
she like not you, it is because you are not one of those.

Yes, Madam; and therefore to speak of Mr. Hickman and myself, as you both, I suppose, think
of each, she treats him as she would not treat a Lovelace.--I challenge you, Madam, to shew
me but one of the many letters you have received from her, where I am mentioned.

Miss Howe is just; Miss Howe is good, replied she.  She writes, she speaks, of every body as
they deserve.  If you point me out but any one occasion, upon which you have reason to build
a merit to yourself, as either just or good, or even generous, I will look out for her letter
on that occasion [if such an occasion there be, I have certainly acquainted her with it]; and
will engage it shall be in your favour.

Devilish severe!  And as indelicate as severe, to put a modish man upon hunting backward after
his own merits.

She would have flung from me: I will not be detained, Mr. Lovelace.  I will go out.

Indeed you must not, Madam, in this humour.  And I placed myself between her and the door.----And
then, fanning, she threw herself into a chair, her sweet face all crimsoned over with passion.

I cast myself at her feet.--Begone, Mr. Lovelace, said she, with a rejecting motion, her fan
in her hand; for your own sake leave me!--My soul is above thee, man! with both her hands pushing
me from her!--Urge me not to tell thee, how sincerely I think my soul above thee!--Thou hast,
in mine, a proud, a too proud heart to contend with!--Leave me, and leave me for ever!--Thou
has a proud heart to contend with!

Her air, her manner, her voice, were bewitchingly noble, though her words were so severe.

Let me worship an angel, said I, no woman.  Forgive me, dearest creature! --creature if you
be, forgive me!--forgive my inadvertencies!--forgive my inequalities!--pity my infirmities!--Who
is equal to my Clarissa?

I trembled between admiration and love; and wrapt my arms about her knees, as she sat.  She
tried to rise at the moment; but my clasping round her thus ardently, drew her down again;
and never was woman more affrighted.  But free as my clasping emotion might appear to her apprehensive
heart, I had not, at the instant, any thought but what reverence inspired.  And till she had
actually withdrawn [which I permitted under promise of a speedy return, and on her consent
to dismiss the chair] all the motions of my heart were as pure as her own.

She kept not her word.  An hour I waited before I sent to claim her promise.  She could not
possibly see me yet, was her answer.  As soon as she could, she would.

Dorcas says, she still excessively trembled; and ordered her to give her hartshorn and water.

A strange apprehensive creature!  Her terror is too great for the occasion.  Evils are often
greater in apprehension than in reality.  Hast thou never observed, that the terrors of a bird
caught, and actually in the hand, bear no comparison to what we might have supposed those terrors
would be, were we to have formed a judgment of the same bird by its shyness before it was taken?

Dear creature!--Did she never romp?  Did she never, from girlhood to now, hoyden?  The innocent
kinds of freedom taken and allowed on these occasions, would have familiarized her to greater.
Sacrilege but to touch the hem of her garment!--Excess of delicacy!--O the consecrated beauty!
How can she think to be a wife?

But how do I know till I try, whether she may not by a less alarming treatment be prevailed
upon, or whether [day, I have done with thee!] she may not yield to nightly surprises?  This
is still the burden of my song, I can marry her when I will.  And if I do, after prevailing
(whether by surprise, or by reluctant consent) whom but myself shall I have injured?

***

It is now eleven o'clock.  She will see me as soon as she can, she tells Polly Horton, who
made her a tender visit, and to whom she is less reserved than to any body else.  Her emotion,
she assures her, was not owing to perverseness, to nicety, to ill humour; but to weakness of
heart.  She has not strength of mind sufficient, she says, to enable her to support her condition.

Yet what a contradiction!--Weakness of heart, says she, with such a strength of will!--O Belford!
she is a lion-hearted lady, in every case where her honour, her punctilio rather, calls for
spirit.  But I have had reason more than once in her case, to conclude, that the passions of
the gentle, slower to be moved than those of the quick, are the most flaming, the most irresistible,
when raised.--Yet her charming body is not equally organized.  The unequal partners pull two
ways; and the divinity within her tears her silken frame.  But had the same soul informed a
masculine body, never would there have been a truer hero.

MONDAY, TWO O'CLOCK.

Not yet visible!--My beloved is not well.  What expectations had she from my ardent admiration
of her!--More rudeness than revenge apprehended. Yet, how my soul thirsts for revenge upon
both these ladies?  I must have recourse to my master-strokes.  This cursed project of Miss
Howe and her Mrs. Townsend (if I cannot contrive t render it abortive) will be always a sword
hanging over my head.  Upon every little disobligations my beloved will be for taking wing;
and the pains I have taken to deprive her of every other refuge or protection, in order to
make her absolutely dependent upon me, will be all thrown away.  But perhaps I shall find out
a smuggler to counterplot Miss Howe.

Thou remembrest the contention between the Sun and the North-wind, in the fable; which should
first make an honest traveller throw off his cloak.

Boreas began first.  He puffed away most vehemently; and often made the poor fellow curve and
stagger; but with no other effect, than to cause him to wrap his surtout the closer about him.

But when it came to Phoebus's turn, he so played upon the traveller with his beams, that he
made him first unbutton, and then throw it quite off: --Nor left he, till he obliged him to
take to the friendly shade of a spreading beech; where, prostrating himself on the thrown-off
cloak, he took a comfortable nap.

The victor-god then laughed outright, both at Boreas and the traveller, and pursued his radiant
course, shining upon, and warming and cherishing a thousand new objects, as he danced along:
and at night, when he put up his fiery coursers, he diverted his Thetis with the relation of
his pranks in the passed day.

I, in like manner, will discard all my boisterous inventions: and if I can oblige my sweet
traveller to throw aside, but for one moment, the cloak of her rigid virtue, I shall have nothing
to do, but, like the sun, to bless new objects with my rays.  But my chosen hours of conversation
and repose, after all my peregrinations, will be devoted to my goddess.

***

And now, Belford, according to my new system, I think this house of Mrs. Fretchville an embarrass
upon me.  I will get rid of it; for some time at least.  Mennell, when I am out, shall come
to her, inquiring for me. What for? thou'lt ask.  What for--hast thou not heard what has befallen
poor Mrs. Fretchville?--Then I'll tell thee.

One of her maids, about a week ago, was taken with the small-pox.  The rest kept their mistress
ignorant of it till Friday; and then she came to know of it by accident.  The greater half
of the plagues poor mortals of condition are tormented with, proceed from the servants they
take, partly for show, partly for use, and with a view to lessen their cares.

This has so terrified the widow, that she is taken with all the symptoms that threaten an attack
from that dreadful enemy of fair faces.--So must not think of removing: yet cannot expect,
that we should be further delayed on her account.

She now wishes, with all her heart, that she had known her own mind, and gone into the country
at first when I treated about the house.  This evil then had not happened! a cursed cross accident
for us, too!--Heigh-ho! nothing else, I think, in this mortal life! people need not study to
bring crosses upon themselves by their petulancies.

So this affair of the house will be over; at least for one while.  But then I can fall upon
an expedient which will make amends for this disappointment.  I must move slow, in order to
be sure.  I have a charming contrivance or two in my head, even supposing my beloved should
get away, to bring her back again.

But what is become of Lord M.  I trow, that he writes not to me, in answer to my invitation?
If he would send me such a letter as I could show, it might go a great way towards a perfect
reconciliation.  I have written to Charlotte about it.  He shall soon hear from me, and that
in a way he won't like, if he writes not quickly.  He has sometimes threatened to disinherit
me.  But if I should renounce him, it would be but justice, and would vex him ten times more
than any thing he can do will vex me. Then, the settlements unavoidably delayed, by his neglect!--How
shall I bear such a life of procrastination!--I, who, as to my will, and impatience, and so
forth, am of the true lady-make, and can as little bear controul and disappointment as the
best of them!

***

Another letter from Miss Howe.  I suppose it is that which she promises in her last to send
her relating to the courtship between old Tony the uncle, and Annabella the mother.  I should
be extremely rejoiced to see it.  No more of the smuggler-plot in it, surely!  This letter,
it seems, she has put in her pocket.  But I hope I shall soon find it deposited with the rest.

MONDAY MORNING.

At my repeated request she condescended to meet me in the dining-room to afternoon-tea, and
not before.

She entered with bashfulness, as I thought; in a pretty confusion, for having carried her apprehensions
too far.  Sullen and slow moved she towards the tea-table.--Dorcas present, busy in tea-cup
preparations.  I took her reluctant hand, and pressed it to my lips.--Dearest, loveliest of
creatures, why this distance? why this displeasure?--How can you thus torture the faithfullest
heart in the world?

She disengaged her hand.  Again I would have snatched it.

Be quiet, [peevishly withdrawing it.]  And down she sat; a gentle palpitation in the beauty
of beauties indicating a mingled sullenness and resentment; her snowy handkerchief rising and
falling, and a sweet flush overspreading her charming cheeks.

For God's sake, Madam!--[And a third time I would have taken her repulsing hand.]

And for the same sake, Sir, no more teasing.

Dorcas retired; I drew my chair nearer her's, and with the most respectful tenderness took
her hand; and told her, that I could not forbear to express my apprehensions (from the distance
she was so desirous to keep me at) that if any man in the world was more indifferent to her,
to use no harsher word, than another, it was the unhappy wretch before her.

She looked steadily upon me for a moment, and with her other hand, not withdrawing that I held,
pulled her handkerchief out of her pocket; and by a twinkling motion urged forward a tear or
two, which having arisen in each sweet eye, it was plain by that motion she would rather have
dissipated: but answered me only with a sigh, and an averted face.

I urged her to speak; to look up at me; to bless me with an eye more favourable.

I had reason, she told me, for my complaint of her indifference.  She saw nothing in my mind
that was generous.  I was not a man to be obliged or favoured.  My strange behaviour to her
since Saturday night, for no cause at all that she knew of, convinced her of this.  Whatever
hopes she had conceived of me were utterly dissipated: all my ways were disgustful to her.

This cut me to the heart.  The guilty, I believe, in every case, less patiently bear the detecting
truth, than the innocent do the degrading falshood.

I bespoke her patience, while I took the liberty to account for this change on my part.--I
re-acknowledged the pride of my heart, which could not bear the thought of that want of preference
in the heart of a lady whom I hoped to call mine, which she had always manifested.  Marriage,
I said, was a state that was not to be entered upon with indifference on either side.

It is insolence, interrupted she, it is a presumption, Sir, to expect tokens of value, without
resolving to deserve them.  You have no whining creature before you, Mr. Lovelace, overcome
by weak motives, to love where there is no merit.  Miss Howe can tell you, Sir, that I never
loved the faults of my friend; nor ever wished her to love me for mine.  It was a rule with
us not to spare each other.  And would a man who has nothing but faults (for pray, Sir, what
are your virtues?) expect that I should show a value for him? Indeed, if I did, I should not
deserve even his value; but ought to be despised by him.

Well have you, Madam, kept up to this noble manner of thinking.  You are in no danger of being
despised for any marks of tenderness or favour shown to the man before you.  You have been
perhaps, you'll think, laudably studious of making and taking occasions to declare, that it
was far from being owing to your choice, that you had any thoughts of me.  My whole soul, Madam,
in all its errors, in all its wishes, in all its views, had been laid open and naked before
you, had I been encouraged by such a share in your confidence and esteem, as would have secured
me against your apprehended worst constructions of what I should from time to time have revealed
to you, and consulted you upon.  For never was there a franker heart; nor a man so ready to
accuse himself.  [This, Belford, is true.]  But you know, Madam, how much otherwise it has
been between us.--Doubt, distance, reserve, on your part, begat doubt, fear, awe, on mine.--How
little confidence! as if we apprehended each other to be a plotter rather than a lover.  How
have I dreaded every letter that has been brought you from Wilson's!--and with reason: since
the last, from which I expected so much, on account of the proposals I had made you in writing,
has, if I may judge by the effects, and by your denial of seeing me yesterday, (though you
could go abroad, and in a chair too, to avoid my attendance on you,) set you against me more
than ever.

I was guilty, it seems, of going to church, said the indignant charmer; and without the company
of a man, whose choice it would not have been to go, had I not gone--I was guilty of desiring
to have the whole Sunday to myself, after I had obliged you, against my will, at a play; and
after you had detained me (equally to my dislike) to a very late hour over- night.--These were
my faults: for these I was to be punished: I was to be compelled to see you, and to be terrified
when I did see you, by the most shocking ill humour that was ever shown to a creature in my
circumstances, and not bound to bear it.  You have pretended to find free fault with my father's
temper, Mr. Lovelace: but the worst that he ever showed after marriage, was not in the least
to be compared to what you have shown twenty times beforehand.--And what are my prospects with
you, at the very best?--My indignation rises against you, Mr. Lovelace, while I speak to you,
when I recollect the many instances, equally ungenerous and unpolite, of your behaviour to
one whom you have brought into distress--and I can hardly bear you in my sight.

She turned from me, standing up; and, lifting up her folded hands, and charming eyes swimming
in tears, O my father, said the inimitable creature, you might have spared your heavy curse,
had you known how I have been punished ever since my swerving feet led me out of your garden-doors
to meet this man!--Then, sinking into her chair, a burst of passionate tears forced their way
down her glowing cheeks.

My dearest life, [taking her still folded hands in mine,] who can bear an invocation so affecting,
though so passionate?

And, as I hope to live, my nose tingled, as I once, when a boy, remember it did (and indeed
once more very lately) just before some tears came into my eyes; and I durst hardly trust my
face in view of her's.

What have I done to deserve this impatient exclamation?--Have I, at any time, by word, by deeds,
by looks, given you cause to doubt my honour, my reverence, my adoration, I may call it, of
your virtues?  All is owing to misapprehension, I hope, on both sides.  Condescend to clear
up but your part, as I will mine, and all must speedily be happy.--Would to Heaven I loved
that Heaven as I love you! and yet, if I doubted a return in love, let me perish if I should
know how to wish you mine!--Give me hope, dearest creature, give me but hope, that I am your
preferable choice!-- Give me but hope, that you hate me not: that you do not despise me.

O Mr. Lovelace, we have been long enough together to be tired of each other's humours and ways;
ways and humours so different, that perhaps you ought to dislike me, as much as I do you.--I
think, I think, that I cannot make an answerable return to the value you profess for me.  My
temper is utterly ruined.  You have given me an ill opinion of all mankind; of yourself in
particular: and withal so bad a one of myself, that I shall never be able to look up, having
utterly and for ever lost all that self-complacency, and conscious pride, which are so necessary
to carry a woman through this life with tolerable satisfaction to herself.

She paused.  I was silent.  By my soul, thought I, this sweet creature will at last undo me!

She proceeded: What now remains, but that you pronounce me free of all obligation to you? and
that you hinder me not from pursuing the destiny that shall be allotted me?

Again she paused.  I was still silent; meditating whether to renounce all further designs upon
her; whether I had not received sufficient evidence of a virtue, and of a greatness of soul,
that could not be questioned or impeached.

She went on: Propitious to me be your silence, Mr. Lovelace!--Tell me, that I am free of all
obligation to you.  You know, I never made you promises.  You know, that you are not under
any to me.--My broken fortunes I matter not--

She was proceeding--My dearest life, said I, I have been all this time, though you fill me
with doubts of your favour, busy in the nuptial preparations.  I am actually in treaty for
equipage.

Equipage, Sir!--Trappings, tinsel!--What is equipage; what is life; what is any thing; to a
creature sunk so low as I am in my own opinion!-- Labouring under a father's curse!--Unable
to look backward without self- reproach, or forward without terror!--These reflections strengthened
by every cross accident!--And what but cross accidents befal me!--All my darling schemes dashed
in pieces, all my hopes at an end; deny me not the liberty to refuge myself in some obscure
corner, where neither the enemies you have made me, nor the few friends you have left me, may
ever hear of the supposed rash-one, till those happy moments are at hand, which shall expiate
for all!

I had not a word to say for myself.  Such a war in my mind had I never known.  Gratitude, and
admiration of the excellent creature before me, combating with villanous habit, with resolutions
so premeditatedly made, and with view so much gloried in!--An hundred new contrivances in my
head, and in my heart, that to be honest, as it is called, must all be given up, by a heart
delighting in intrigue and difficulty--Miss Howe's virulences endeavoured to be recollected--yet
recollection refusing to bring them forward with the requisite efficacy--I had certainly been
a lost man, had not Dorcas come seasonably in with a letter.--On the superscription written--Be
pleased, Sir, to open it now.

I retired to the window--opened it--it was from Dorcas herself.--These the contents--'Be pleased
to detain my lady: a paper of importance to transcribe.  I will cough when I have done.'

I put the paper in my pocket, and turned to my charmer, less disconcerted, as she, by that
time, had also a little recovered herself. --One favour, dearest creature--Let me but know,
whether Miss Howe approves or disapproves of my proposals?  I know her to be my enemy.  I was
intending to account to you for the change of behaviour you accused me of at the beginning
of the conversation; but was diverted from it by your vehemence.  Indeed, my beloved creature,
you were very vehement.  Do you think it must not be matter of high regret to me, to find my
wishes so often delayed and postponed in favour of your predominant view to a reconciliation
with relations who will not be reconciled to you?--To this was owing your declining to celebrate
our nuptials before we came to town, though you were so atrociously treated by your sister,
and your whole family; and though so ardently pressed to celebrate by me--to this was owing
the ready offence you took at my four friends; and at the unavailing attempt I made to see
a dropt letter; little imagining, from what two such ladies could write to each other, that
there could be room for mortal displeasure--to this was owing the week's distance you held
me at, till you knew the issue of another application.--But, when they had rejected that; when
you had sent my cold-received proposals to Miss Howe for her approbation or advice, as indeed
I advised; and had honoured me with your company at the play on Saturday night; (my whole behaviour
unobjectionable to the last hour;) must not, Madam, the sudden change in your conduct the very
next morning, astonish and distress me?--and this persisted in with still stronger declarations,
after you had received the impatiently-expected letter from Miss Howe; must I not conclude,
that all was owing to her influence; and that some other application or project was meditating,
that made it necessary to keep me again at a distance till the result were known, and which
was to deprive me of you for ever? For was not that your constantly-proposed preliminary?--Well,
Madam, might I be wrought up to a half-phrensy by this apprehension; and well might I charge
you with hating me.--And now, dearest creature, let me know, I once more ask you, what is Miss
Howe's opinion of my proposals?

Were I disposed to debate with you, Mr. Lovelace, I could very easily answer your fine harangue.
But at present, I shall only say, that your ways have been very unaccountable.  You seem to
me, if your meanings were always just, to have taken great pains to embarrass them.  Whether
owing in you to the want of a clear head, or a sound heart, I cannot determine; but it is to
the want of one of them, I verily think, that I am to ascribe the greatest part of your strange
conduct.

Curse upon the heart of the little devil, said I, who instigates you to think so hardly of
the faithfullest heart in the world!

How dare you, Sir!  And there she stopt; having almost overshot herself; as I designed she should.

How dare I what, Madam?  And I looked with meaning.  How dare I what?

Vile man--And do you--And there again she stopt.

Do I what, Madam?--And why vile man?

How dare you curse any body in my presence?

O the sweet receder!  But that was not to go off so with a Lovelace.

Why then, dearest creature, is there any body that instigates you?--If there be, again I curse
them, be they whom they will.

She was in a charming pretty passion.  And this was the first time that I had the odds in my
favour.

Well, Madam, it is just as I thought.  And now I know how to account for a temper that I hope
is not natural to you.

Artful wretch! and is it thus you would entrap me?  But know, Sir, that I received letters
from nobody but Miss Howe.  Miss Howe likes some of your ways as little as I do; for I have
set every thing before her.  Yet she is thus far your enemy, as she is mine.  She thinks I
could not refuse your offers; but endeavour to make the best of my lot.  And now you have the
truth.  Would to heaven you were capable of dealing with equal sincerity!

I am, Madam.  And here, on my knee, I renew my vows, and my supplication, that you will make
me your's.  Your's for ever.  And let me have cause to bless you and Miss Howe in the same breath.

To say the truth, Belford, I had before begun to think that the vixen of a girl, who certainly
likes not Hickman, was in love with me.

Rise, Sir, from your too-ready knees; and mock me not!

Too-ready knees, thought I!  Though this humble posture so little affects this proud beauty,
she knows not how much I have obtained of others of her sex, nor how often I have been forgiven
for the last attempts, by kneeling.

Mock you, Madam!  And I arose, and re-urged her for the day.  I blamed myself, at the same
time, for the invitation I had given to Lord M., as it might subject me to delay from his infirmities:
but told her, that I would write to him to excuse me, if she had no objection; or to give him
the day she would give me, and not wait for him, if he could not come in time.

My day, Sir, said she, is never.  Be not surprised.  A person of politeness judging between
us, would not be surprised that I say so.  But indeed, Mr. Lovelace, [and wept through impatience,]
you either know not how to treat with a mind of the least degree of delicacy, notwithstanding
your birth and education, or you are an ungrateful man; and [after a pause] a worse than ungrateful
one.  But I will retire.  I will see you again to-morrow.  I cannot before.  I think I hate
you.  And if, upon a re-examination of my own heart, I find I do, I would not for the world
that matters should go on farther between us.

But I see, I see, she does not hate me!  How it would mortify my vanity, if I thought there
was a woman in the world, much more this, that could hate me!  'Tis evident, villain as she
thinks me, that I should not be an odious villain, if I could but at last in one instance cease
to be a villain!  She could not hold it, determined as she had thought herself, I saw by her
eyes, the moment I endeavoured to dissipate her apprehensions, on my too-ready knees, as she
calls them.  The moment the rough covering my teasing behaviour has thrown over her affections
is quite removed, I doubt not to find all silk and silver at the bottom, all soft, bright,
and charming.

I was however too much vexed, disconcerted, mortified, to hinder her from retiring.  And yet
she had not gone, if Dorcas had not coughed.

The wench came in, as soon as her lady had retired, and gave me the copy she had taken.  And
what should it be but of the answer the truly admirable creature had intended to give to my
written proposals in relation to settlements?

I have but just dipt my pen into this affecting paper.  Were I to read it attentively, not
a wink should I sleep this night.  To-morrow it shall obtain my serious consideration.

LETTER XLVIII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. TUESDAY MORNING, MAY 23.

The dear creature desires to be excused seeing me till evening.  She is not very well, as Dorcas
tells me.

Read here, if thou wilt, the paper transcribed by Dorcas.  It is impossible that I should proceed
with my projects against this admirable woman, were it not that I am resolved, after a few
trials more, if as nobly sustained as those she has passed through, to make her (if she really
hate me not) legally mine.

TO MR. LOVELACE

'When a woman is married, that supreme earthly obligation requires, that in all instances,
where her husband's real honour is concerned, she should yield her own will to his.  But, beforehand,
I could be glad, conformably to what I have always signified, to have the most explicit assurances,
that every possible way should be tried to avoid litigation with my father.  Time and patience
will subdue all things.  My prospects of happiness are extremely contracted.  A husband's right
will be always the same.  In my lifetime I could wish nothing to be done of this sort. Your
circumstances, Sir, will not oblige you to extort violently from him what is in his hands.
All that depends upon me, either with regard to my person, to my diversions, or to the economy
that no married woman, of whatever rank or quality, should be above inspecting, shall be done,
to prevent a necessity for such measures being taken.  And if there will be no necessity for
them, it is to be hoped that motives less excusable will not have force--motives which must
be founded in a littleness of mind, which a woman, who has not that littleness of mind, will
be under such temptations, as her duty will hardly be able at all times to check, to despise
her husband for having; especially in cases where her own family, so much a part of herself,
and which will have obligations upon her (though then but secondary ones) from which she can
never be freed, is intimately concerned.

'This article, then, I urge to your most serious consideration, as what lies next my heart.
I enter not here minutely into the fatal misunderstanding between them and you: the fault may
be in both.  But, Sir, your's was the foundation-fault: at least, you gave a too-plausible
pretence for my brother's antipathy to work upon.  Condescension was no part of your study.
You chose to bear the imputations laid to your charge, rather than to make it your endeavour
to obviate them.

'But this may lead into hateful recrimination.--Let it be remembered, I will only say, in this
place, that, in their eye, you have robbed them of a daughter they doated upon; and that their
resentments on this occasion rise but in proportion to their love and their disappointment.
If they were faulty in some of the measures they took, while they themselves did not think
so, who shall judge for them?  You, Sir, who will judge every body as you please, and will
let nobody judge you in your own particular, must not be their judge.--It may therefore be
expected that they will stand out.

'As for myself, Sir, I must leave it (so seems it to be destined) to your justice, to treat
me as you shall think I deserve: but, if your future behaviour to them is not governed by that
harsh-sounding implacableness, which you charge upon some of their tempers, the splendour of
your family, and the excellent character of some of them (of all indeed, unless your own conscience
furnishes you with one only exception) will, on better consideration, do every thing with them:
for they may be overcome; perhaps, however, with the more difficulty, as the greatly prosperous
less bear controul and disappointment than others: for I will own to you, that I have often
in secret lamented, that their great acquirements have been a snare to them; perhaps as great
a snare, as some other accidentals have been to you; which being less immediately your own
gifts, you have still less reason than they to value yourself upon them.

'Let me only, on this subject, further observe, that condescension is not meanness.  There
is a glory in yielding, that hardly any violent spirit can judge of.  My brother, perhaps,
is no more sensible of this than you. But as you have talents, which he has not, (who, however,
has, as I hope, that regard for morals, the want of which makes one of his objections to you,)
I could wish it may not be owing to you, that your mutual dislikes to each other do not subside!
for it is my earnest hope, that in time you may see each other, without exciting the fears
of a wife and a sister for the consequence.  Not that I should wish you to yield in points
that truly concerned your honour: no, Sir; I would be as delicate in such, as you yourself:
more delicate, I will venture to say, because more uniformly so.  How vain, how contemptible,
is that pride, which shows itself in standing upon diminutive observances; and gives up, and
makes a jest of, the most important duties!

'This article being considered as I wish, all the rest will be easy. Were I to accept of the
handsome separate provision you seem to intend me; added to the considerate sums arisen from
my grandfather's estate since his death (more considerable than perhaps you may suppose from
your offer); I should think it my duty to lay up for the family good, and for unforseen events,
out of it: for, as to my donations, I would generally confine myself in them to the tenth of
my income, be it what it would.  I aim at no glare in what I do of that sort.  All I wish for,
is the power of relieving the lame, the blind, the sick, and the industrious poor, and those
whom accident has made so, or sudden distress reduced.  The common or bred beggars I leave
to others, and to the public provision.  They cannot be lower: perhaps they wish not to be
higher: and, not able to do for every one, I aim not at works of supererogation.  Two hundred
pounds a year would do all I wish to do of the separate sort: for all above, I would content
myself to ask you; except, mistrusting your own economy, you would give up to my management
and keeping, in order to provide for future contingencies, a larger portion; for which, as
your steward, I would regularly account.

'As to clothes, I have particularly two suits, which, having been only in a manner tried on,
would answer for any present occasion.  Jewels I have of my grandmother's, which want only
new-setting: another set I have, which on particular days I used to wear.  Although these are
not sent me, I have no doubt, being merely personals, but they will, when I should send for
them in another name: till when I should not choose to wear any.

'As to your complaints of my diffidences, and the like, I appeal to your own heart, if it be
possible for you to make my case your own for one moment, and to retrospect some parts of your
behaviour, words, and actions, whether I am not rather to be justified than censured: and whether,
of all the men in the world, avowing what you avow, you ought not to think so.  If you do not,
let me admonish you, Sir, from the very great mismatch that then must appear to be in our minds,
never to seek, nor so much as to wish, to bring about the most intimate union of interests
between yourself and

CLARISSA HARLOWE. MAY 20.'

***

The original of this charming paper, as Dorcas tells me, was torn almost in two.  In one of
her pets, I suppose!  What business have the sex, whose principal glory is meekness, and patience,
and resignation, to be in a passion, I trow?--Will not she who allows herself such liberties
as a maiden take greater when married?

And a wife to be in a passion!--Let me tell the ladies, it is an impudent thing, begging their
pardon, and as imprudent as impudent, for a wife to be in a passion, if she mean not eternal
separation, or wicked defiance, by it: For is it not rejecting at once all that expostulatory
meekness, and gentle reasoning, mingled with sighs as gentle, and graced with bent knees, supplicating
hands, and eyes lifted up to your imperial countenance, just running over, that you should
make a reconciliation speedy, and as lasting as speedy?  Even suppose the husband is in the
wrong, will not this being so give the greater force to her expostulation?

Now I think of it, a man should be in the wrong now-and-then, to make his wife shine.  Miss
Howe tells my charmer, that adversity is her shining- time.  'Tis a generous thing in a man
to make his wife shine at his own expense: to give her leave to triumph over him by patient
reasoning: for were he to be too imperial to acknowledge his fault on the spot, she will find
the benefit of her duty and submission in future, and in the high opinion he will conceive
of her prudence and obligingness--and so, by degrees, she will become her master's master.

But for a wife to come up with kemboed arm, the other hand thrown out, perhaps with a pointing
finger--Look ye here, Sir!--Take notice!--If you are wrong, I'll be wrong!--If you are in a
passion, I'll be in a passion! --Rebuff, for rebuff, Sir!--If you fly, I'll tear!--If you swear,
I'll curse!--And the same room, and the same bed, shall not hold us, Sir!- For, remember, I
am married, Sir!--I am a wife, Sir!--You can't help yourself, Sir!--Your honour, as well as
your peace, is in my keeping! And, if you like not this treatment, you may have worse, Sir!

Ah! Jack! Jack!  What man, who has observed these things, either implied or expressed, in other
families, would wish to be a husband!

Dorcas found this paper in one of the drawers of her lady's dressing- table.  She was reperusing
it, as she supposes, when the honest wench carried my message to desire her to favour me at
the tea-table; for she saw her pop a paper into the drawer as she came in; and there, on her
mistress's going to meet me in the dining-room, she found it; and to be this.

But I had better not to have had a copy of it, as far as I know: for, determined as I was before
upon my operations, it instantly turned all my resolutions in her favour.  Yet I would give
something to be convinced that she did not pop it into her drawer before the wench, in order
for me to see it; and perhaps (if I were to take notice of it) to discover whether Dorcas,
according to Miss Howe's advice, were most my friend, or her's.

The very suspicion of this will do her no good: for I cannot bear to be artfully dealt with.
People love to enjoy their own peculiar talents in monopoly, as arguments against me in her
behalf.  But I know ever tittle thou canst say upon it.  Spare therefore thy wambling nonsense,
I desire thee; and leave this sweet excellence and me to our fate: that will determine for
us, as it shall please itself: for as Cowley says,

        An unseen hand makes all our moves:
        And some are great, and some are small;
      Some climb to good, some from great fortunes fall:
        Some wise men, and some fools we call:
      Figures, alas! of speech!--For destiny plays us all.

But, after all, I am sorry, almost sorry (for how shall I do to be quite sorry, when it is
not given to me to be so?) that I cannot, until I have made further trials, resolve upon wedlock.

I have just read over again this intended answer to my proposals: and how I adore her for it!

But yet; another yet!--She has not given it or sent it to me.--It is not therefore her answer.
It is not written for me, though to me.

Nay, she has not intended to send it to me: she has even torn it, perhaps with indignation,
as thinking it too good for me.  By this action she absolutely retracts it.  Why then does
my foolish fondness seek to establish for her the same merit in my heart, as if she avowed
it? Pr'ythee, dear Belford, once more, leave us to our fate; and do not thou interpose with
thy nonsense, to weaken a spirit already too squeamish, and strengthen a conscience that has
declared itself of her party.

Then again, remember thy recent discoveries, Lovelace!  Remember her indifference, attended
with all the appearance of contempt and hatred. View her, even now, wrapt up in reserve and
mystery; meditating plots, as far as thou knowest, against the sovereignty thou hast, by right
of conquest, obtained over her.  Remember, in short, all thou hast threatened to remember against
this insolent beauty, who is a rebel to the power she has listed under.

But yet, how dost thou propose to subdue thy sweet enemy!--Abhorred be force, be the necessity
of force, if that can be avoided!  There is no triumph in force--no conquest over the will--no
prevailing by gentle degrees over the gentle passions!--force is the devil!

My cursed character, as I have often said, was against me at setting out --Yet is she not a
woman?  Cannot I find one yielding or but half- yielding moment, if she do not absolutely hate me?

But with what can I tempt her?--RICHES she was born to, and despises, knowing what they are.
JEWELS and ornaments, to a mind so much a jewel, and so richly set, her worthy consciousness
will not let her value.  LOVE --if she be susceptible of love, it seems to be so much under
the direction of prudence, that one unguarded moment, I fear, cannot be reasonably hoped for:
and so much VIGILANCE, so much apprehensiveness, that her fears are ever aforehand with her
dangers.  Then her LOVE or VIRTUE seems to be principle, native principle, or, if not native,
so deeply rooted, that its fibres have struck into her heart, and, as she grew up, so blended
and twisted themselves with the strings of life, that I doubt there is no separating of the
one without cutting the others asunder.

What then can be done to make such a matchless creature get over the first tests, in order
to put her to the grand proof, whether once overcome, she will not be always overcome?

Our mother and her nymphs say, I am a perfect Craven, and no Lovelace: and so I think.  But
this is no simpering, smiling charmer, as I have found others to be, when I have touched upon
affecting subjects at a distance; as once or twice I have tried to her, the mother introducing
them (to make sex palliate the freedom to sex) when only we three together.  She is above the
affectation of not seeming to understand you. She shows by her displeasure, and a fierceness
not natural to her eye, that she judges of an impure heart by an impure mouth, and darts dead
at once even the embryo hopes of an encroaching lover, however distantly insinuated, before
the meaning hint can dawn into double entendre.

By my faith, Jack, as I sit gazing upon her, my whole soul in my eyes, contemplating her perfections,
and thinking, when I have seen her easy and serene, what would be her thoughts, did she know
my heart as well as I know it; when I behold her disturbed and jealous, and think of the justness
of her apprehensions, and that she cannot fear so much as there is room for her to fear; my
heart often misgives me.

And must, think I, O creature so divinely excellent, and so beloved of my soul, those arms,
those encircling arms, that would make a monarch happy, be used to repel brutal force; all
their strength, unavailingly perhaps, exerted to repel it, and to defend a person so delicately
framed?  Can violence enter into the heart of a wretch, who might entitle himself to all her
willing yet virtuous love, and make the blessings he aspireth after, her duty to confer?--Begone,
villain-purposes!  Sink ye all to the hell that could only inspire ye!  And I am then ready
to throw myself at her feet, to confess my villainous designs, to avow my repentance, and put
it out of my power to act unworthily by such an excellence.

How then comes it, that all these compassionate, and, as some would call them, honest sensibilities
go off!--Why, Miss Howe will tell thee: she says, I am the devil.--By my conscience, I think
he has at present a great share in me.

There's ingenuousness!--How I lay myself open to thee!--But seest thou not, that the more I
say against myself, the less room there is for thee to take me to task?--O Belford, Belford!
I cannot, cannot (at least at present) I cannot marry.

Then her family, my bitter enemies--to supple to them, or if I do not, to make her as unhappy
as she can be from my attempts----

Then does she not love them too much, me too little?

She now seems to despise me:  Miss Howe declares, that she really does despise me.  To be despised
by a WIFE--What a thought is that!--To be excelled by a WIFE too, in every part of praise-worthy
knowledge!--To take lessons, to take instructions, from a WIFE!--More than despise me, she
herself has taken time to consider whether she does not hate me:-- I hate you, Lovelace, with
my whole heart, said she to me but yesterday! My soul is above thee, man!--Urge me not to tell
thee how sincerely I think my soul above thee!--How poor indeed was I then, even in my own
heart!--So visible a superiority, to so proud a spirit as mine!--And here from below, from
BELOW indeed! from these women!  I am so goaded on----

Yet 'tis poor too, to think myself a machine in the hands of such wretches.--I am no machine.--Lovelace,
thou art base to thyself, but to suppose thyself a machine.

But having gone thus far, I should be unhappy, if after marriage, in the petulance of ill humour,
I had it to reproach myself, that I did not try her to the utmost.  And yet I don't know how
it is, but this lady, the moment I come into her presence, half-assimilates me to her own virtue.--
Once or twice (to say nothing of her triumph over me on Sunday night) I was prevailed upon
to fluster myself, with an intention to make some advances, which, if obliged to recede, I
might lay upon raised spirits: but the instant I beheld her, I was soberized into awe and reverence:
and the majesty of her even visible purity first damped, and then extinguished, my double flame.

What a surprisingly powerful effect, so much and so long in my power she! so instigated by
some of her own sex, and so stimulated by passion I!-- How can this be accounted for in a Lovelace!

But what a heap of stuff have I written!--How have I been run away with! --By what?--Canst
thou say by what?--O thou lurking varletess CONSCIENCE! --Is it thou that hast thus made me
of party against myself?--How camest thou in?--In what disguise, thou egregious haunter of
my more agreeable hours?--Stand thou, with fate, but neuter in this controversy; and, if I
cannot do credit to human nature, and to the female sex, by bringing down such an angel as
this to class with and adorn it, (for adorn it she does in her very foibles,) then I am all
your's, and never will resist you more.

Here I arose.  I shook myself.  The window was open.  Always the troublesome bosom-visiter,
the intruder, is flown.--I see it yet!--And now it lessens to my aching eye!--And now the cleft
air is closed after it, and it is out of sight!--and once more I am

ROBERT LOVELACE.

LETTER XLIX

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. TUESDAY, MAY 23.

Well did I, and but just in time to conclude to have done with Mrs. Fretchville and the house:
for here Mennell has declared, that he cannot in conscience and honour go any farther.--He
would not for the world be accessory to the deceiving of such a lady!--I was a fool to let
either you or him see her; for ever since ye have both had scruples, which neither would have
had, were a woman to have been in the question.

Well, I can't help it!

Mennell has, however, though with some reluctance, consented to write me a letter, provided
I will allow it to be the last step he shall take in this affair.

I presumed, I told him, that if I could cause Mrs. Fretchville's woman to supply his place,
he would have no objection to that.

None, he says--But is it not pity--

A pitiful fellow!  Such a ridiculous kind of pity his, as those silly souls have, who would
not kill an innocent chicken for the world; but when killed to their hands, are always the
most greedy devourers of it.

Now this letter gives the servant the small-pox: and she has given it to her unhappy vapourish
lady.  Vapourish people are perpetual subjects for diseases to work upon.  Name but the malady,
and it is theirs in a moment.  Ever fitted for inoculation.--The physical tribe's milch-cows.
--A vapourish or splenetic patient is a fiddle for the doctors; and they are eternally playing
upon it.  Sweet music does it make them.  All their difficulty, except a case extraordinary
happens, (as poor Mrs. Fretchville's, who has realized her apprehensions,) is but to hold their
countenance, while their patient is drawing up a bill of indictment against himself;--and when
they have heard it, proceed to punish--the right word for prescribe.  Why should they not,
when the criminal has confessed his guilt?--And punish they generally do with a vengeance.

Yet, silly toads too, now I think of it.  For why, when they know they cannot do good, may
they not as well endeavour to gratify, as to nauseate, the patient's palate?

Were I a physician, I'd get all the trade to myself: for Malmsey, and Cyprus, and the generous
product of the Cape, a little disguised, should be my principal doses: as these would create
new spirits, how would the revived patient covet the physic, and adore the doctor!

Give all the paraders of the faculty whom thou knowest this hint.--There could but one inconvenience
arise from it.  The APOTHECARIES would find their medicines cost them something: but the demand
for quantities would answer that: since the honest NURSE would be the patient's taster; perpetually
requiring repetitions of the last cordial julap.

Well, but to the letter--Yet what need of further explanation after the hints in my former?
The widow can't be removed; and that's enough: and Mennell's work is over; and his conscience
left to plague him for his own sins, and not another man's: and, very possibly, plague enough
will give him for those.

This letter is directed, To Robert Lovelace, Esq. or, in his absence, to his Lady.  She has
refused dining with me, or seeing me: and I was out when it came.  She opened it: so is my
lady by her own consent, proud and saucy as she is.

I am glad at my heart that it came before we entirely make up.  She would else perhaps have
concluded it to be contrived for a delay: and now, moreover, we can accommodate our old and
new quarrels together; and that's contrivance, you know.  But how is her dear haughty heart
humbled to what it was when I knew her first, that she can apprehend any delays from me; and
have nothing to do but to vex at them!

I came in to dinner.  She sent me down the letter, desiring my excuse for opening it.--Did
it before she was aware.  Lady-pride, Belford! recollection, then retrogradation!

I requested to see her upon it that moment.--But she desires to suspend our interview till
morning.  I will bring her to own, before I have done with her, that she can't see me too often.

My impatience was so great, on an occasion so unexpected, that I could not help writing to
tell her, 'how much vexed I was at the accident: but that it need not delay my happy day, as
that did not depend upon the house.  [She knew that before, she'll think; and so did I.]  And
as Mrs. Fretchville, by Mr. Mennell, so handsomely expressed her concern upon it, and her wishes
that it could suit us to bear with the unavoidable delay, I hoped, that going down to The Lawn
for two or three of the summer- months, when I was made the happiest of men, would be favourable
to all round.'

The dear creature takes this incident to heart, I believe: She has sent word to my repeated
request to see her notwithstanding her denial, that she cannot till the morning: it shall be
then at six o'clock, if I please!

To be sure I do please!

Can see her but once a day now, Jack!

Did I tell thee, that I wrote a letter to my cousin Montague, wondering that I heard not from
Lord M. as the subject was so very interesting!  In it I acquainted her with the house I was
about taking; and with Mrs. Fretchville's vapourish delays.

I was very loth to engage my own family, either man or woman, in this affair; but I must take
my measures securely: and already they all think as bad of me as they well can.  You observe
by my Lord M.'s letter to yourself, that the well-manner'd peer is afraid I should play this
admirable creature one of my usual dog's tricks.

I have received just now an answer from Charlotte.

Charlot i'n't well.  A stomach disorder!

No wonder a girl's stomach should plague her.  A single woman; that's it. When she has a man
to plague, it will have something besides itself to prey upon.  Knowest thou not moreover,
that man is the woman's sun; woman is the man's earth?--How dreary, how desolate, the earth,
that the suns shines not upon!

Poor Charlotte!  But I heard she was not well: that encouraged me to write to her; and to express
myself a little concerned, that she had not, of her own accord, thought of a visit in town
to my charmer.

Here follows a copy of her letter.  Thou wilt see by it that every little monkey is to catechise
me.  They all depend upon my good-nature.

M. HALL, MAY 22.

DEAR COUSIN,

We have been in daily hope for a long time, I must call it, of hearing that the happy knot
was tied.  My Lord has been very much out of order: and yet nothing would serve him, but he
would himself write an answer to your letter.  It was the only opportunity he should ever have,
perhaps, to throw in a little good advice to you, with the hope of its being of any signification;
and he has been several hours in a day, as his gout would let him, busied in it.  It wants
now only his last revisal.  He hopes it will have the greater weight with you, as it appear
all in his own hand-writing.

Indeed, Mr. Lovelace, his worthy heart is wrapt up in you.  I wish you loved yourself but half
as well.  But I believe too, that if all the family loved you less, you would love yourself more.

His Lordship has been very busy, at the times he could not write, in consulting Pritchard about
those estates which he proposes to transfer to you on the happy occasion, that he may answer
your letter in the most acceptable manner; and show, by effects, how kindly he takes your invitation. Each
cell door has practiced a simple little device that can monitor the
prisoner without his noticing it.

Director and three subordinate employees sufficient to timely and rigorous administration of the establishment.
Those arrested were involved in the manufacture of shoes, mats and other simple objects of popular consumption,
and the products are intended to cover expenses for the establishment and create a savings fund for
each detainee, according to the value of their work. The preaching and religious instruction is given
to inmates is austere, intelligent and affable.

If the confinement in the jail, the temporary deprivation of food, the walk in the yard, etc..
coercision are means of repression or additional inmate also has powerful incentives to meditate
on their crimes, repent and moralize. In case of good behavior, giving evidence of repentance, you
get greater participation in the fruits of their labor, permits to work
in the company of one or two more, but always in silence, and a reduction
of penalty that can reach half its legal duration. recurrences noticed
that they are rare among adult males, and somewhat common among women
and pubescent or prepubescent safe occupation when they get to leave
prison.

For the rest, in establishing order reigns, silence, neatness and economy. The director and one
of the guards I expressed the deep conviction of the effectiveness of the system in every way, while
acknowledging, as other people, the need for the cellular system
has its complement in a social institution that allows provide instruction
and work for some time the prisoner freed, in order that, effectively
being smooth the transition of imprisonment and forced labor, freedom
to work free but insecure, is conjure the dangers of recidivism.

There will come a day, not I doubt that civilized societies recognize that the rich correction
of the culprit and the supreme duty of justice require the close correlation
of three institutions: the place of punishment, school, and shop or
something similar, and that no social power has full authority to
punish, but to instruct and moralize condition of the guilty, and
open once regretted the infinite via any rehabilitation: the work
and personal independence. The Prison House has shapes and different
conditions, however system community.

The building has the outward form of half wagon wheel spokes and three horizontal.
In the center is the facade, which gives about a three-story lobby corresponding
to the interior. The inner and lower lobby is semicircular, and parallel
to the large semicircle described by two equally tall embankments
parallel to each other that, separated by an alley, contain all the
strength. From the center to the circumference extending like spokes of
equal length and two oblong buildings and another building crowned
intermediate by a dome, separated by four walls that enclose patios.

All boundary walls and are sheltered from the outside looks and dominated by the dome and some windows
to monitor the situation. The office of the director and his assistant
is inside the peristyle, and in the center of the boot the spokes
are the gaps that allow inmates to observe and communicate orders
through the walls without being seen.

Of the three floors of these radios the bottom contains the workshops,
and the top two cells of the prisoners room , while in the middle
there are premises for the service employees.

Under the study, the level of the courts, are the parlor for visits
to the prisoners, office and other pieces of kitchenware. The entire building,
it seems complicated, but actually very simple, cost just $ 30,000 and
only required a annual expenditure of 5,000, at most, a deficit that
leaves the product in respect of expenditure, the work of prisoners.

It can contain 56 inmates, judging by the number of cells, but it has never been
   filled and usually has only about 46. Of this number he had when I visited
   the prison, 12 were repeat offenders: only 7 belonged to the canton
   of Geneva (where there is freedom, instruction and industrial) and
   the majority of inmates consisted of Savoyards, belonging to a population
   too poor , ignorant, no industry, commerce or communications, enclosed
   between the Alps and customs lines. The large number of prisoners represented
the crimes of theft and robbery, crimes that in the majority of cases
do not indicate perversion, but misery and lack of instruction and
work.

The number of Protestant and Roman Catholic Canton balances in prison, although there are all great
majority of Catholics. Each defendant asleep in her cell in solitary confinement. The cells are small but
adequate, very clean and airy, lit by natural light and equipped with the necessary furniture
modest. Inmates working and taking food in common silent all, and
divided into sections according to their criminality.

Eat three meals per day, abundant, simple, healthy, and after each turn out
to spend half an hour outdoors in one of the patios. Only one case
of evasion has happened so far, and that the negligence of a watchman.
Jamas other prisoner has lost his reason or attack the guards.

The total confinement without work or light, and temporary food deprivation
or bed to sleep, are the means of coercion or repression.

The prisoners' work is to manufacture shoes and mats or a pillar
grains. Each of the workshops is common guarded inside by a guard who wins,
besides the food and accommodation, three francs a day. The director, an
assistant or secretary, and these guards are the only active employees
of the establishment, and serve him very well. Chaplains Sunday to attend
to the religious and moral, without prejudice to its competition
accidental.

When an inmate is worthy of consideration, is allowed to receive from time
   to time the short visit for some debt. This is verified in a phone booth
   at a gate through fine wire, which allows the conversation and the exchange
   of glances, under the supervision of the warden, but which prevents all
contact and communication cards, money, weapons.

They take books that are carefully recorded all the facts of the domestic economy and comments
on statistics and morals of the inmates. According to those documents, if the conduct of a defendant
is blameless get a less rigorous treatment and a reduction of sentence, which reaches to the
middle. These cuts are very common. As the product of labor, the system is analogous to the House
of Detention, but part is intended to assist, if they are poor, to the children, parents, or
spouse of inmate. The prison serves only to those convicted for crimes or serious offenses,
to more than one year of confinement cell. The maximum duration of 20 years, applied only in
cases of repeated serious crimes. What I drew attention in the penitentiary
was the chapel, local extreme simplicity, unadorned and provided
no seats in the amphitheater.

There the prisoners are divided into sections according to their
criminality.

At the bottom, near the modest chair of the chaplain, is a small
altar reduced to one Christ, the image of the Virgin and glasses
and other necessities for the Roman worship.

This altar is provided with a thick, dark curtains. When inmates are Roman Catholic chapel,
the altar is naked and runs the priest concerned.

When his turn assist the Protestants, the altar is covered and is not in sight but a Bible on
the table.

Thus, the same pulpit and serve the local priest and pastor. Never in
my life had found a social spectacle as sublime as that of the humble
chapel, also dedicated to the service of two religious communions
which have bloodied the soil with their struggles impious.

What a profound teaching of spiritualism in religion, noble simplicity
worship, brotherhood and tolerance, universality in the religious
idea, - without stopping the differences lie in symbols and forms, - of true
Christianity, in the end! Teaching hidden in the depths of a prison,
- a symbol of the equal duty to conscience and justice - guilty to instill the
notion of brotherhood in God and man, the equal right of all, as
violation is precisely what is called fault, offense or crime!

On leaving Geneva, was not only an impression of deep respect for this small country of philosophers,
artists and free and industrious, but also a kind of comfort and
confidence in the future of mankind.

What great examples and inspirations towering European civilization
owes to this tiny village, used to make watches and exercising free
inquiry, his genius seems to have severe regularity of independent
chronometer and the expansion of organizations free!

Here were born, to the glory of letters and sciences of every kind, courageous and patient naturalists
as Saussure and Candolle, as Burlamaqui jurists, historians such as Sismondi and Mallet, economists such
as John B. Say and Sismondi himself, men of state as Necker, writers such as Madame Necker, and Cherbuliez
Töpffer; distinguished artists, thinkers, philosophers like Rousseau
immortal!

A huge open carriage, divided into three compartments and containing about 23 people, apart from
the luggage , was to guide us along the Arve Valley to Chamonix, at the foot of the colossal
group of mountains in the center of which has the wonderful dome of Mont Blanc. The English, as
in all sites, vehicles and excursion lines, were in the majority,
represented mainly by a half-dozen strong young ladies, blonde, dressed
in pink and capriciously.

Sovereignly always annoyed the thick fog, life uniform geographical isolation of their opulent
island, English is eminently cosmopolitan, for hygienic reasons, by genius and tradition,
and out of curiosity, frequently childish. Even in the last corner of the world and on the
highest peaks is found, - urgent demanding, intractable, if not required of others, laconic, cold,
full of walking sticks, umbrellas and a thousand appliances, impassive when the others are moved,
shaved and perfumed in order even at the bottom of the cliffs and refrigerators,
and wearing with its unique single-colored dress and a single court,
which by dint of uniform plays in extravagance.

Fino, gentlemanly, hospitable and served on his island (at home), English is hard in a foreign country,
sometimes half-savage, for pride of race and nationality gives you the awareness that leads to
their homeland everywhere them, ie their individual right, your name and your bag. Hence his
total lack of elasticity and tolerance to accommodate in a foreign
country to the use of other peoples and to the needs of the circumstances.
It is certainly curious phenomenon of moral transformation that occurs
in English, traveler so attached to the idea of the homeland, and
yet so addicted to his travels away from the homeland.

The French, on the contrary, a man of spirit rather than belief, indefinite expansion of habit rather than
socialist par excellence, leaving the country across the border of
France and is an adoptive, temporary and ad hoc wherever you are
presented with half of sociability, a circle of ideas.

Thus , is treated with admirable ease all living conditions, and agree with the best mood all possible
situations, both in the Champs Elysees of Paris in the bottom of a South American jungle, or in
a desert of Africa.'s why that, when traveling in Europe between the English and French, is always
at first silent, elusive, retreating into his personality rigorous, whereas the others come
from then in the wider lane and multiple unencumbered conversation, traveling across the joviality.
These observations, which have nothing personal to be new or original sinembargo and have confirmed
all my trips, I certainly came to mind to follow, as the measure of
Geneva, the road to Chamonix.

The was so lively conversation between us and two or three French francs and some of the same race
as remarkable contemplative silence of the British. Llamónos attention particularly a pastor
or minister of the canton of Vaud, traveling very modestly with his daughter - a smart and funny
girl of sixteen years, - with the intention of making fruitful excursions on foot. He was a man fine
manners, full of modesty and distinction in behavior, simple, tolerant
and philosopher, heavily soaked in the feeling of fraternity and Christian
charity, a friend of good conversation and discussion, attentive observer
enthusiastically by all the natural beauty of general instruction
and solid and particularly addicted to the geology, physics, botany
and natural history.

His daughter,
as educated as kind, so innocent and intelligent, always accompanied him in his travels. On foot, armed
with sticks and a modest travel outfit, had traveled together the most interesting parts of
central Switzerland, scaling the heights of the Jura, Bernese Oberland
refrigerators, etc., Collecting curious plants and making careful
observations.

They had the intention to go in the fridge part of Mont Blanc and visit all the natural sights of Chamonix.
Rarely have I traveled with a companion as instructive as the worthy pastor vaudense, which
I found one of the most beautiful types of the modern priesthood. Twelve hours of care and drive
mortals must endure to make the journey of 90 miles to Chamonix, thick clouds of dust and under
the rays of a sun that seemed tropical. Otherwise it is possible to admire the beauty of the
many varied landscapes offer the track. She is of little interest to
Bonneville, which was capital of the former province of Faucigny,
with 1,500 inhabitants. It is there, near the mountains of mole and a
beautiful bridge crossing the Arve to trace their margin left to Cluses
the traveler begins to look closely at the beauties of the Alps.

The river runs along the bottom of a deep basin formed by high buttresses or rugged mountain-ranges
on a stony bed, leading in their revolts waves a thick solution of
granite and limestone sands that give your gray ink.

Sometimes the basin is widens in vast folds and severe Curb, and
the valley appears full of undulations and small hills, where vineyards
clean bright sun, beautiful corn and green beans, or thick carpets
spread in some small meadows that they will lose the foot of the
stratified limestone cliffs, or the rigid and vertical granite rocks
that appear to threaten the traveler from the top of his formidable
bastions.

Elsewhere, the valley narrows: the road turns on the edge of a slope or cliff overlooking the waves
of the river, this jumps up, sparkling dislocated and twisted on his bed stirred hailstorms, the
hills rise on either side as colossal walls, offering the most romantic
forms in the high caves, its rugged relief, its huge vertical cracks,
their collapse, and severe unequal peaks, their Cascadilla that are
released to the valley in thin threads to become dust often Argentine
their harsh and sad bushes floating near the wind and hardly adhere
to the interstices of the rocks, and overlapping stripes sombío green
- upright fir wreaths respect the snows in the mountains of the Alps,
leaving their eternal glory.

And in the middle and top of that, it opens a glorious sky, And far to
the east, they could see, on a colossal swarm of ice-capped granite,
the dome of Mont Blanc, dignified stronghold two great nations - Italy
and France, - sovereign of that world of magnificent horrors they
call the Alps!

Across the valley of the Arve abundant wildlife sites, natural curiosities and charming views. As
society is there very little interest, nature, full of strength and majesty, is the first actor.
Poblacion poor race without well-defined type, although traditionally brave, the Savoyards of this
valley have some sympathy for compassionate, without their localities
call the attention of travelers.

Simple people, resigned to the rigors of its climate and lovers of
the mountains, living without admiring the beauty of your floor, speak
very bad French and not think about world politics. Sigh, before
annexation to France for a positioned to improve economic conditions.

Throughout the route, Bonneville and Sallanches are the only locations of some importance.
In San-Martin, a poor but charming village Sallanches Valley, we leave the coach to take a
four-seat stroller, and soon, accompanied by the esteemed pastor Protestant, began to move away from
the banks of the Arve, followed by his right side and climb the slope to slope Heder. From
the top corners saw the immense abyss at the bottom of the river
plunges, angry and wild, waking with the noise of a thousand waterfalls
echoes of the mountains.

The road trip, then at the height of Servoz, through labyrinths of rocks smashed and secular and
thick forests of pine and fir, which lie scattered these erratic boulders which have been one of
the mysteries of geology, - revelations the amazing power of the coolers traveler on the slopes
of the hills. Deep in the forest roars the Arve, raging torrent there,
and wherever the majesty queen of the wild.

After all, the forest ends, the field is leveled, the Arve has a less stormy course, the
mountains open up a little, and the Chamonix valley, carpeted with flowers, ferns and Gramal, and
full of crops and livestock; seductive develops, dominated on one side and the other by great
granite cliffs or hills, forests of firs and pines high, and sea ice with the sad solemnity
of the desolation.

The Chamonix valley, situated about 1,000 meters elevation above sea level, measuring a length of 20 to
25 miles from N.-E. the S.-O., and a width of 1,500 to 2,000 meters. Súrcalo in all its extension
the Arve River, which, being born in the icy heights of the neck
of Balme, is growing strongly with water throwing the immediate valley
is dominated refrigerators.

Nestled between stunning and rugged mountains, the valley offers the most
strange contrasts of joy smiling and wild ruggedness of rustic tranquility
and grandeur in the shapes and desolation in some objects.

To the west, the refrigerators are missing entirely: soaring mountains covered with pine and
black spruce, most extension, rise in the clouds to sink its severe granite peaks or cones, and
presented at intervals such landslides frightening, traces of the
disasters of spring avalanches are called the opposite side of the
valley rise the spurs of Monte-Blanco, scrambled eggs, shredded by
innumerable crevasses and gigantic, terrifying beauty and severity,
- ending in refrigerators now spilling over its waves frozen valley,
now covered with coarse weeds, ferns and fir forests; now sharpening
their tops in huge plumes extravagant and needles bare, dark, - to
provide support to a huge amphitheater of mountains and ice invisible
whose pinnacle is the head of Mount-White admirable.

There are so majestic in this world of granite and ice, which is almost a daring offensive sucking
to describe it anyway. The village of Chamonix is at the heart of the valley at the same distance of
refrigerators and Bossons Bois calls, which are the closest to the plain. The population in
all of it comes down to Chamonix and five or six very poor villages, with 2,000 inhabitants
at most. Chamonix is literally a town of hotels and inns, more or
less comfortable and looks more or less seductive.

The buildings are all of granite flooring boards .-- When summer ends, when the valley is visited
by many thousands Onlookers, Chamonix is reduced to about 500 or 600 neighbors, all the noise of cars,
mules and dissipates, the hotels are completely deserted, and the valley turns to the desolation
of winter burial. Often the snow is so abundant at that time and landslides from the hills are
so terrible, that people last days together and prisoners incommunicado, because the houses are
covered with snow everywhere in very thick layers. Life is then very
sad and miserable in the desert of ice. In Chamonix are almost all
the amenities that the traveler can wish for. "Wherever you are small
shops or museums of works of art in marble, granite, wood, bone,
etc., and specimens of flora, fauna and geology of the mountains , that
travelers buy out of curiosity and carrying memories of their trips.
Chamonix is actually a village guides or drivers of passengers, who
serve rigorous in turn, own tools and live mules partners in their
profession, according to a regulation of the authority. During the spring
all the men are farmers. In the summer months become guides and mule drivers,
so without neglecting their duties. When winter activity suppresses
these means, was devoted to domestic work and produce art objects,
or are they looking for work in Geneva and other cities.

Do not omit to say that the vast majority of the inhabitants of the valley is distinguished by
two remarkable qualities: the probity more purified, and the advantage of being able to read at least currently.
It does honor to those simple mountaineers as well as the Government of Sardinia until 1860 the regal,
interested mostly in promoting primary education and the means of
communication and excursion.

Are numerous and interesting excursions you can do the curious traveler in Chamonix. The less
tiring are those of the Bossons Bois and refrigerators, which are made by car or on foot as simple
walks.

The high hills called the Garden, and Buet Brevent not be tolerated, but for those who like strong
emotions and know how to go on foot with energy. In short, the Sea-de-ice and Flégère are preferred
by those who wish to look closely at the mountains and love the excursions on horseback or sedan
chair. We [9] we decided to climb the morning Montanvers in application
of the "Sea-of-ice, and visit in the afternoon, on foot, the cascades
of the Pilgrims and the Dard and refrigerator"

Bossons. "[9] When I speak in the plural I refer to my wife and me. Nothing is more curious
and picturesque scene offered at sight in the town of Chamonix, from four or five in the morning,
when hundreds of passengers who populate hotels and renewed constantly,
hungry and restless as ants, begin to take their tours.

The highest peaks of the Mont-Blanc chain, whose dome is not possible to see from Chamonix,
and illuminated by bright sunlight Argentines, while in the valley, at half past four in the morning,
still roamed the last shadows of the night. Wherever the movement prevailed: in front of the hotels
in the nearby streets and the outskirts of town.

  She sighed at the mention of them: the
second patterns, she said, that had been offered to her:* and very peremptorily forbid the
jeweller's coming; as well as declined my offer of causing my mother's to be new-set, at least
for the present.

* See Vol. I. Letter XLI.

I do assure thee, Belford, I was in earnest in all this.  My whole estate is nothing to me,
put in competition with her hoped-for favour.

She then told me, that she had put into writing her opinion of my general proposals; and there
had expressed her mind as to clothes and jewels: but on my strange behaviour to her (for no
cause that she knew of) on Sunday night, she had torn the paper in two.

I earnestly pressed her to let me be favoured with a sight of this paper, torn as it was. 
And, after some hesitation, she withdrew, and sent it to me by Dorcas.

I perused it again.  It was in a manner new to me, though I had read it so lately: and, by
my soul, I could hardly stand it.  An hundred admirable creatures I called her to myself. 
But I charge thee, write not a word to me in her favour, if thou meanest her well; for, if
I spare her, it must be all ex mero motu.

You may easily suppose, when I was re-admitted to her presence, that I ran over in her praises,
and in vows of gratitude, and everlasting love. But here's the devil; she still receives all
I say with reserve; or if it be not with reserve, she receives it so much as her due, that
she is not at all raised by it.  Some women are undone by praise, by flattery. I myself, a
man, am proud of praise.  Perhaps thou wilt say, that those are most proud of it who least
deserve it; as those are of riches and grandeur who are not born to either.  I own, that to
be superior to these foibles, it requires a soul.  Have I not then a soul?--Surely, I have.--
Let me then be considered as an exception to the rule.

Now have I foundation to go upon in my terms.  My Lord, in the exuberance of his generosity,
mentions a thousand pounds a year penny-rents.  This I know, that were I to marry this lady,
he would rather settle upon her all he has a mind to settle, than upon me.  He has event threatened,
that if I prove not a good husband to her, he will leave all he can at his death from me to
her.  Yet considers not that a woman so perfect can never be displeased with her husband but
to his disgrace: For who will blame her? --Another reason why a LOVELACE should not wish to
marry a CLARISSA.

But what a pretty fellow of an uncle is this foolish peer, to think of making a wife independent
of her emperor, and a rebel of course; yet smarted himself for an error of this kind!

My beloved, in her torn paper, mentions but two hundred pounds a year, for her separate use.
I insisted upon her naming a larger sum.  She said it might be three; and I, for fear she should
suspect very large offers, named only five; but added the entire disposal of all arrears in
her father's hands for the benefit of Mrs. Norton, or whom she pleased.

She said, that the good woman would be uneasy if any thing more than a competency were done
for her.  She was more for suiting all her dispositions of this kind, she said, to the usual
way of life of the person.  To go beyond it, was but to put the benefited upon projects, or
to make them awkward in a new state; when they might shine in that to which they were accustomed.
And to put it into so good a mother's power to give her son a beginning in his business at
a proper time; yet to leave her something for herself, to set her above want, or above the
necessity of taking back from her child what she had been enabled to bestow upon him; would
be the height of such a worthy parent's ambition.

Here's prudence!  Here's judgment in so young a creature!  How do I hate the Harlowes for producing
such an angel!--O why, why, did she refuse my sincere address to tie the knot before we came
to this house!

But yet, what mortifies my pride is, that this exalted creature, if I were to marry her, would
not be governed in her behaviour to me by love, but by generosity merely, or by blind duty;
and had rather live single, than be mine.

I cannot bear this.  I would have the woman whom I honour with my name, if ever I confer this
honour upon any, forego even her superior duties for me.  I would have her look after me when
I go out as far as she can see me, as my Rosebud after her Johnny; and meet me at my return
with rapture.  I would be the subject of her dreams, as well as of her waking thoughts.  I
would have her think every moment lost that is not passed with me: sing to me, read to me,
play to me when I pleased: no joy so great as in obeying me.  When I should be inclined to
love, overwhelm me with it; when to be serious or solitary, if apprehensive of intrusion, retiring
at a nod; approaching me only if I smiled encouragement: steal into my presence with silence;
out of it, if not noticed, on tiptoe.  Be a lady easy to all my pleasures, and valuing those
most who most contributed to them; only sighing in private, that it was not herself at the
time.  Thus of old did the contending wives of the honest patriarchs; each recommending her
handmaid to her lord, as she thought it would oblige him, and looking upon the genial product
as her own.

The gentle Waller says, women are born to be controuled.  Gentle as he was, he knew that. 
A tyrant husband makes a dutiful wife.  And why do the sex love rakes, but because they know
how to direct their uncertain wills, and manage them?

***

Another agreeable conversation.  The day of days the subject.  As to fixing a particular one,
that need not be done, my charmer says, till the settlements are completed.  As to marrying
at my Lord's chapel, the Ladies of my family present, that would be making a public affair
of it; and the dear creature observed, with regret, that it seemed to be my Lord's intention
to make it so.

It could not be imagined, I said, but that his Lordship's setting out in a litter, and coming
to town, as well as his taste for glare, and the joy he would take to see me married at last,
and to her dear self, would give it as much the air of a public marriage as if the ceremony
were performed at his own chapel, all the Ladies present.

I cannot, said she, endure the thoughts of a public day.  It will carry with it an air of insult
upon my whole family.  And for my part, if my Lord will not take it amiss, [and perhaps he
will not, as the motion came not from himself, but from you, Mr. Lovelace,] I will very willingly
dispense with his Lordship's presence; the rather, as dress and appearance will then be unnecessary;
for I cannot bear to think of decking my person while my parents are in tears.

How excellent this!  Yet do not her parents richly deserve to be in tears?

See, Belford, with so charming a niceness, we might have been a long time ago upon the verge
of the state, and yet found a great deal to do before we entered into it.

All obedience, all resignation--no will but her's.  I withdrew, and wrote directly to my Lord;
and she not disapproving of it, I sent it away.  The purport as follows; for I took no copy.

'That I was much obliged to his Lordship for his intended goodness to me on an occasion the
most solemn of my life.  That the admirable Lady, whom he so justly praised, thought his Lordship's
proposals in her favour too high.  That she chose not to make a public appearance, if, without
disobliging my friends, she could avoid it, till a reconciliation with her own could be effected.
That although she expressed a grateful sense of his Lordship's consent to give her to me with
his own hand; yet, presuming that the motive to this kind intention was rather to do her honour,
than it otherwise would have been his own choice, (especially as travelling would be at this
time so inconvenient to him,) she thought it advisable to save his Lordship trouble on this
occasion; and hoped he would take as meant her declining the favour.

'That The Lawn will be most acceptable to us both to retire to; and the rather, as it is so
to his Lordship.

'But, if he pleases, the jointure may be made from my own estate; leaving to his Lordship's
goodness the alternative.'

I conclude with telling him, 'that I had offered to present the Lady his Lordship's bill; but
on her declining to accept of it (having myself no present occasion for it) I return it enclosed,
with my thanks, &c.'

And is not this going a plaguy length?  What a figure should I make in rakish annals, if at
last I should be caught in my own gin?

The sex may say what they will, but a poor innocent fellow had need to take great care of himself,
when he dances upon the edge of the matrimonial precipice.  Many a faint-hearted man, when
he began to jest, or only designed to ape gallantry, has been forced into earnest, by being
over-prompt, and taken at his word, not knowing how to own that he meant less than the lady
supposed he meant.  I am the better enabled to judge that this must have been the case of many
a sneaking varlet; because I, who know the female world as well as any man in it of my standing,
am so frequently in doubt of myself, and know not what to make of the matter.

Then these little sly rogues, how they lie couchant, ready to spring upon us harmless fellows
the moment we are in their reach!--When the ice is once broken for them, how swiftly can they
make to port!--Mean time, the subject they can least speak to, they most think of.  Nor can
you talk of the ceremony, before they have laid out in their minds how it is all to be.  Little
saucy-faced designers! how first they draw themselves in, then us!

But be all these things as they will, Lord M. never in his life received so handsome a letter
as this from his nephew

LOVELACE.

***

[The Lady, after having given to Miss Howe on the particulars contained
   in Mr. Lovelace's last letter, thus expresses herself:]

A principal consolation arising from these favourable appearances, is, that I, who have now
but one only friend, shall most probably, and if it be not my own fault, have as many new ones
as there are persons in Mr. Lovelace's family; and this whether Mr. Lovelace treat me kindly
or not. And who knows, but that, by degrees, those new friends, by their rank and merit, may
have weight enough to get me restored to the favour of my relations? till which can be effected,
I shall not be tolerably easy. Happy I never expect to be.  Mr. Lovelace's mind and mine are
vastly different; different in essentials.

But as matters are at present circumstanced, I pray you, my dear friend, to keep to yourself
every thing that might bring discredit to him, if revealed.--Better any body expose a man than
a wife, if I am to be his; and what is said by you will be thought to come from me.

It shall be my constant prayer, that all the felicities which this world can afford may be
your's: and that the Almighty will never suffer you nor your's, to the remotest posterity,
to want such a friend as my Anna Howe has been to

Her CLARISSA HARLOWE.

LETTER LIV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.

And now, that my beloved seems secure in my net, for my project upon the vixen Miss Howe, and
upon her mother: in which the officious prancer Hickman is to come in for a dash.

But why upon her mother, methinks thou askest, who, unknown to herself, has only acted, by
the impulse, through thy agent Joseph Leman, upon the folly of old Tony the uncle?

No matter for that: she believes she acts upon her own judgment: and deserves to be punished
for pretending to judgment, when she has none.-- Every living soul, but myself, I can tell
thee, shall be punished, that treats either cruelly or disrespectfully so adored a lady.--What
a plague! is it not enough that she is teased and tormented in person by me?

I have already broken the matter to our three confederates; as a supposed, not a resolved-on
case indeed.  And yet they know, that with me, in a piece of mischief, execution, with its
swiftest feel, is seldom three paces behind projection, which hardly ever limps neither.

MOWBRAY is not against it.  It is a scheme, he says, worthy of us: and we have not done any
thing for a good while that has made a noise.

BELTON, indeed, hesitates a little, because matters go wrong between him and his Thomasine;
and the poor fellow has not the courage to have his sore place probed to the bottom.

TOURVILLE has started a fresh game, and shrugs his shoulders, and should not choose to go abroad
at present, if I please.  For I apprehend that (from the nature of the project) there will
be a kind of necessity to travel, till all is blown over.

To ME, one country is as good as another; and I shall soon, I suppose, choose to quit this
paltry island; except the mistress of my fate will consent to cohabit at home; and so lay me
under no necessity of surprising her into foreign parts.  TRAVELLING, thou knowest, gives the
sexes charming opportunities of being familiar with one another.  A very few days and nights
must now decide all matters betwixt me and my fair inimitable.

DOLEMAN, who can act in these causes only as chamber-counsel, will inform us by pen and ink
[his right hand and right side having not yet been struck, and the other side beginning to
be sensible] of all that shall occur in our absence.

As for THEE, we had rather have thy company than not; for, although thou art a wretched fellow
at contrivance, yet art thou intrepid at execution. But as thy present engagements make thy
attendance uncertain, I am not for making thy part necessary to our scheme; but for leaving
thee to come after us when abroad.  I know thou canst not long live without us.

The project, in short, is this:--Mrs. Howe has an elder sister in the Isle of Wight, who is
lately a widow; and I am well informed, that the mother and daughter have engaged, before the
latter is married, to pay a visit to this lady, who is rich, and intends Miss for her heiress;
and in the interim will make her some valuable presents on her approaching nuptials; which,
as Mrs. Howe, who loves money more than any thing but herself, told one of my acquaintance,
would be worth fetching.

Now, Jack, nothing more need be done, than to hire a little trim vessel, which shall sail a
pleasuring backward and forward to Portsmouth, Spithead, and the Isle of Wight, for a week
or fortnight before we enter upon our parts of the plot.  And as Mrs. Howe will be for making
the best bargain she can for her passage, the master of the vessel may have orders (as a perquisite
allowed him by his owners) to take what she will give: and the master's name, be it what it
will, shall be Ganmore on the occasion; for I know a rogue of that name, who is not obliged
to be of any country, any more than we.

Well, then, we will imagine them on board.  I will be there in disguise. They know not any
of ye four--supposing (the scheme so inviting) that thou canst be one.

'Tis plaguy hard, if we cannot find, or make a storm.

Perhaps they will be sea-sick: but whether they be or not, no doubt they will keep their cabin.

Here will be Mrs. Howe, Miss Howe, Mr. Hickman, a maid, and a footman, I suppose: and thus
we will order it.

I know it will be hard weather: I know it will: and, before there can be the least suspicion
of the matter, we shall be in sight of Guernsey, Jersey, Dieppe, Cherbourg, or any where on
the French coast that it shall please us to agree with the winds to blow us: and then, securing
the footman, and the women being separated, one of us, according to lots that may be cast,
shall overcome, either by persuasion or force, the maid servant: that will be no hard task;
and she is a likely wench, [I have seen her often:] one, Mrs. Howe; nor can there be much difficulty
there; for she is full of health and life, and has been long a widow: another, [that, says
the princely lion, must be I!] the saucy daughter; who will be much too frightened to make
great resistance, [violent spirits, in that sex, are seldom true spirits--'tis but where they
can:] and after beating about the coast for three or four days for recreation's sake, and to
make sure work, till we see our sullen birds begin to eat and sip, we will set them all ashore
where it will be most convenient; sell the vessel, [to Mrs. Townsend's agents, with all my
heart, or to some other smugglers,] or give it to Ganmore; and pursue our travels, and tarry
abroad till all is hushed up.

Now I know thou wilt make difficulties, as it is thy way; while it is mine to conquer them.
My other vassals made theirs; and I condescended to obviate them: as thus I will thine, first
stating them for thee according to what I know of thy phlegm.

What, in the first place, wilt thou ask, shall be done with Hickman? who will be in full parade
of dress and primness, in order to show the old aunt what a devilish clever fellow of a nephew
she is to have.

What!--I'll tell thee--Hickman, in good manners, will leave the women in their cabin--and,
to show his courage with his breeding, be upon deck--

Well, and suppose he is!--Why then I hope it is easy for Ganmore, or any body else, myself
suppose in my pea-jacket and great watch coat, (if any other make scruple to do it), while
he stands in the way, gaping and staring like a novice, to stumble against him, and push him
overboard! --A rich thought--is it not, Belford?--He is certainly plaguy officious in the ladies'
correspondence; and I am informed, plays double between mother and daughter, in fear of both.--Dost
not see him, Jack?--I do-- popping up and down, his wig and hat floating by him; and paddling,
pawing, and dashing, like a frighted mongrel--I am afraid he never ventured to learn to swim.

But thou wilt not drown the poor fellow; wilt thou?

No, no!--that is not necessary to the project--I hate to do mischiefs supererogatory.  The
skiff shall be ready to save him, while the vessel keeps its course: he shall be set on shore
with the loss of wig and hat only, and of half his little wits, at the place where he embarked,
or any where else.

Well, but shall we not be in danger of being hanged for three such enormous rapes, although
Hickman should escape with only a bellyful of sea-water?

Yes, to be sure, when caught--But is there any likelihood of that?-- Besides, have we not been
in danger before now for worse facts? and what is there in being only in danger?--If we actually
were to appear in open day in England before matters are made up, there will be greater likelihood
that these women will not prosecute that they will.--For my own part, I should wish they may.
Would not a brave fellow choose to appear in court to such an arraignment, confronting women
who would do credit to his attempt?  The country is more merciful in these cases, than in any
others: I should therefore like to put myself upon my country.

Let me indulge in a few reflections upon what thou mayest think the worst that can happen.
I will suppose that thou art one of us; and that all five are actually brought to trial on
this occasion: how bravely shall we enter a court, I at the head of you, dressed out each man,
as if to his wedding appearance!--You are sure of all the women, old and young, of your side.--What
brave fellows!--what fine gentlemen!--There goes a charming handsome man!--meaning me, to be
sure!--who could find in their hearts to hang such a gentleman as that? whispers one lady,
sitting perhaps on the right hand of the recorder: [I suppose the scene to be in London:] while
another disbelieves that any woman could fairly swear against me.  All will crowd after me:
it will be each man's happiness (if ye shall chance to be bashful) to be neglected: I shall
be found to be the greatest criminal; and my safety, for which the general voice will be engaged,
will be yours.

But then comes the triumph of triumphs, that will make the accused look up, while the accusers
are covered with confusion.

Make room there!--stand by!--give back!--One receiving a rap, another an elbow, half a score
a push a piece!--

Enter the slow-moving, hooded-faced, down-looking plaintiffs.--

And first the widow, with a sorrowful countenance, though half-veiled, pitying her daughter
more than herself.  The people, the women especially, who on this occasion will be five-sixths
of the spectators, reproaching her--You'd have the conscience, would you, to have five such
brave gentlemen as these hanged for you know not what?

Next comes the poor maid--who, perhaps, has been ravished twenty times before; and had not
appeared now, but for company-sake; mincing, simpering, weeping, by turns; not knowing whether
she should be sorry or glad.

But every eye dwells upon Miss!--See, see, the handsome gentleman bows to her!

To the very ground, to be sure, I shall bow; and kiss my hand.

See her confusion! see! she turns from him!--Ay! that's because it is in open court, cries
an arch one!--While others admire her--Ay! that's a girl worth venturing one's neck for!

Then we shall be praised--even the judges, and the whole crowded bench, will acquit us in their
hearts! and every single man wish he had been me! --the women, all the time, disclaiming prosecution,
were the case to be their own.  To be sure, Belford, the sufferers cannot put half so good
a face upon the matter as we.

Then what a noise will this matter make!--Is it not enough, suppose us moving from the prison
to the sessions-house,* to make a noble heart thump it away most gloriously, when such an one
finds himself attended to his trial by a parade of guards and officers, of miens and aspects
warlike and unwarlike; himself of their whole care, and their business! weapons in their hands,
some bright, some rusty, equally venerable for their antiquity and inoffensiveness! others
of more authoritative demeanour, strutting before with fine painted staves! shoals of people
following, with a Which is he whom the young lady appears against?-- Then, let us look down,
look up, look round, which way we will, we shall see all the doors, the shops, the windows,
the sign-irons, and balconies, (garrets, gutters, and chimney-tops included,) all white-capt,
black- hooded, and periwigg'd, or crop-ear'd up by the immobile vulgus: while the floating
street-swarmers, who have seen us pass by at one place, run with stretched-out necks, and strained
eye-balls, a roundabout way, and elbow and shoulder themselves into places by which we have
not passed, in order to obtain another sight of us; every street continuing to pour out its
swarms of late-comers, to add to the gathering snowball; who are content to take descriptions
of our persons, behaviour, and countenances, from those who had the good fortune to have been
in time to see us.

* Within these few years past, a passage has been made from the prison to the sessions-house,
whereby malefactors are carried into court without going through the street.  Lovelace's triumph
on their supposed march shows the wisdom of this alteration.

Let me tell thee, Jack, I see not why (to judge according to our principles and practices)
we should not be as much elated in our march, were this to happen to us, as others may be upon
any other the most mob- attracting occasion--suppose a lord-mayor on his gawdy--suppose a victorious
general, or ambassador, on his public entry--suppose (as I began with the lowest) the grandest
parade that can be supposed, a coronation--for, in all these, do not the royal guard, the heroic
trained-bands, the pendent, clinging throngs of spectators, with their waving heads rolling
to-and-fro from house-tops to house-bottoms and street-ways, as I have above described, make
the principal part of the raree-show?

And let me ask thee, if thou dost not think, that either the mayor, the ambassador, or the
general would not make very pitiful figures on their galas, did not the trumpets and tabrets
call together the canaille to gaze at them?--Nor perhaps should we be the most guilty heroes
neither: for who knows how the magistrate may have obtained his gold chain? while the general
probably returns from cutting of throats, and from murders, sanctified by custom only.--Caesar,
we are told,* had won, at the age of fifty-six, when he was assassinated, fifty pitched battles,
had taken by assault above a thousand towns, and slain near 1,200,000 men; I suppose exclusive
of those who fell on his own side in slaying them.  Are not you and I, Jack, innocent men,
and babes in swaddling-clothes, compared to Caesar, and to his predecessor in heroism, Alexander,
dubbed, for murders and depredation, Magnus?

* Pliny gives this account, putting the number of men slain at 1,100,092. See also Lipsius
de Constandia.

The principal difference that strikes me in the comparison between us and the mayor, the ambassador,
the general, on their gawdies, is, that the mob make a greater noise, a louder huzzaing, in
the one case than the other, which is called acclamation, and ends frequently in higher taste,
by throwing dead animals at one another, before they disperse; in which they have as much joy,
as in the former part of the triumph: while they will attend us with all the marks of an awful
or silent (at most only a whispering) respect; their mouths distended, as if set open with
gags, and their voices generally lost in goggle-ey'd admiration.

Well, but suppose, after all, we are convicted; what have we to do, but in time make over our
estates, that the sheriffs may not revel in our spoils?--There is no fear of being hanged for
such a crime as this, while we have money or friends.--And suppose even the worst, that two
or three were to die, have we not a chance, each man of us, to escape?  The devil's in them,
if they'll hang five for ravishing three!

I know I shall get off for one--were it but for family sake: and being a handsome fellow, I
shall have a dozen or two young maidens, all dressed in white, go to court to beg my life--and
what a pretty show they will make, with their white hoods, white gowns, white petticoats, white
scarves, white gloves, kneeling for me, with their white handkerchiefs at their eyes, in two
pretty rows, as his Majesty walks through them and nods my pardon for their sakes!--And, if
once pardoned, all is over: for, Jack, in a crime of this nature there lies no appeal, as in
a murder.

So thou seest the worst that can happen, should we not make the grand tour upon this occasion,
but stay and take our trials.  But it is most likely, that they will not prosecute at all.
If not, no risque on our side will be run; only taking our pleasure abroad, at the worst; leaving
friends tired of us, in order, after a time, to return to the same friends endeared to us,
as we to them, by absence.

This, Jack, is my scheme, at the first running.  I know it is capable of improvement--for example:
I can land these ladies in France; whip over before they can get a passage back, or before
Hickman can have recovered his fright; and so find means to entrap my beloved on board--and
then all will be right; and I need not care if I were never to return to England.

Memorandum, To be considered of--Whether, in order to complete my
   vengeance, I cannot contrive to kidnap away either James Harlowe or
   Solmes? or both?  A man, Jack, would not go into exile for nothing.

LETTER LV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.

If, Belford, thou likest not my plot upon Miss Howe, I have three or four more as good in my
own opinion; better, perhaps, they will be in thine: and so 'tis but getting loose from thy
present engagement, and thou shalt pick and choose.  But as for thy three brethren, they must
do as I would have them: and so, indeed, must thou--Else why am I your general?  But I will
refer this subject to its proper season.  Thou knowest, that I never absolutely conclude upon
a project, till 'tis time for execution; and then lightning strikes not quicker than I.

And now to the subject next my heart.

Wilt thou believe me, when I tell thee, that I have so many contrivances rising up and crowding
upon me for preference, with regard to my Gloriana, that I hardly know which to choose?--I
could tell thee of no less than six princely ones, any of which must do.  But as the dear creature
has not grudged giving me trouble, I think I ought not, in gratitude, to spare combustibles
for her; but, on the contrary, to make her stare and stand aghast, by springing three or four
mines at once.

Thou remembrest what Shakespeare, in his Troilus and Cressida, makes Hector, who, however,
is not used to boast, say to Achilles in an interview between them; and which, applied to this
watchful lady, and to the vexation she has given me, and to the certainty I now think I have
of subduing her, will run thus: supposing the charmer before me; and I meditating her sweet
person from head to foot:

      Henceforth, O watchful fair-one, guard thee well:
      For I'll not kill thee there! nor there! nor there!
      But, by the zone that circles Venus' waist,
      I'll kill thee ev'ry where; yea, o'er and o'er.--
      Thou, wisest Belford, pardon me this brag:
      Her watchfulness draws folly from my lips;
      But I'll endeavour deeds to match the words,
      Or I may never----

Then I imagine thee interposing to qualify my impatience, as Ajax did to Achilles:

      ----Do not chafe thee, cousin:
      ----And let these threats alone,
      Till accident or purpose bring thee to it.

All that vexes me, in the midst of my gloried-in devices, is, that there is a sorry fellow
in the world, who has presumed to question, whether the prize, when obtained, is worthy of
the pains it costs me: yet knows, with what patience and trouble a bird-man will spread an
acre of ground with gins and snares; set up his stalking horse, his glasses; plant his decoy-
birds, and invite the feathered throng by his whistle; and all his prize at last (the reward
of early hours, and of a whole morning's pains) only a simple linnet.

To be serious, Belford, I must acknowledge, that all our pursuits, from childhood to manhood,
are only trifles of different sort and sizes, proportioned to our years and views: but then
is not a fine woman the noblest trifle, that ever was or could be obtained by man?--And to
what purpose do we say obtained, if it be not in the way we wish for?--If a man is rather to
be her prize, than she his?

***

And now, Belford, what dost think?

That thou art a cursed fellow, if--

If--no if's--but I shall be very sick to-morrow.  I shall, 'faith.

Sick!--Why sick?  What a-devil shouldst thou be sick for?

For more good reasons than one, Jack.

I should be glad to hear but one.--Sick, quotha!  Of all thy roguish inventions I should not
have thought of this.

Perhaps thou thinkest my view to be, to draw the lady to my bedside. That's a trick of three
or four thousand years old; and I should find it much more to my purpose, if I could get to
her's.  However, I'll condescend to make thee as wise as myself.

I am excessively disturbed about this smuggling scheme of Miss Howe.  I have no doubt, that
my fair-one, were I to make an attempt, and miscarry, will fly from me, if she can.  I once
believed she loved me: but now I doubt whether she does or not: at least, that it is with such
an ardour, as Miss Howe calls it, as will make her overlook a premeditated fault, should I
be guilty of one.

And what will being sick do for thee?

Have patience.  I don't intend to be so very bad as Dorcas shall represent me to be.  But yet
I know I shall reach confoundedly, and bring up some clotted blood.  To be sure, I shall break
a vessel: there's no doubt of that: and a bottle of Eaton's styptic shall be sent for; but
no doctor.  If she has humanity, she will be concerned. More power, child, more strength. It appears
that you have no soul ... Come alive ... I wish they had this all my genius ... What are you
doing, baby? Do not have eyes? ".

A maid, dry and muscular woman, also would not let alone for a moment.
  I will be sure of being
well in an hour or two, having formerly found great benefit by this astringent medicine, on
occasion of an inward bruise by a fall from my horse in hunting, of which perhaps this malady
may be the remains.  And this will show her, that though those about me may make the most of
it, I do not; and so can have no design in it.

Well, methinks thou sayest, I begin to think tolerably of this device.

I knew thou wouldst, when I explained myself.  Another time prepare to wonder; and banish doubt.

Now, Belford, I shall expect, that she will show some concern at the broken vessel, as it may
be attended with fatal effects, especially to one so fiery in his temper as I have the reputation
to be thought to be: and the rather, as I shall calmly attribute the accident to the harasses
and doubts under which I have laboured for some time past.  And this will be a further proof
of my love, and will demand a grateful return--

And what then, thou egregious contriver?

Why then I shall have the less remorse, if I am to use a little violence: for can she deserve
compassion, who shows none?

And what if she shows a great deal of concern?

Then shall I be in hopes of building on a good foundation.  Love hides a multitude of faults,
and diminishes those it cannot hide.  Love, when acknowledged, authorizes freedom; and freedom
begets freedom; and I shall then see how far I can go.

Well but, Lovelace, how the deuce wilt thou, with that full health and vigour of constitution,
and with that bloom in thy face, make any body believe thou art sick?

How!--Why, take a few grains of ipecacuanha; enough to make me reach like a fury.

Good!--But how wilt thou manage to bring up blood, and not hurt thyself?

Foolish fellow!  Are there no pigeons and chickens in every poulterer's shop?

Cry thy mercy. 

After urging the Indians to them by the Chief Justice declared the rules to be observed in future:
asked whether the Spanish would land all belonging to the Indian common: they said yes.


And what will this do?

Questioning again!--I am afraid thou'rt an infidel, Belford--Why then shall I not know if my
beloved offers to go out in my absence?--And shall I not see whether she receives me with tenderness
at my return?  But this is not all: I have a foreboding that something affecting will happen
while I am out.  But of this more in its place.

And now, Belford, wilt thou, or wilt thou not, allow, that it is a right thing to be sick?--Lord,
Jack, so much delight do I take in my contrivances, that I shall be half sorry when the occasion
for them is over; for never, never, shall I again have such charming exercise for my invention. 

It is not our fault that the respectable person of D. Francisco Bringas be somewhat comical
to present itself in an old coat with a hat pulled down older even cover the ears, the face disfigured
by dust, loose feet in slippers, sometimes walking on all fours over the carpet measure, cut, trim,
sometimes climbing nimbly in a chair, hammer in hand and running down those aisles in search of a nail,
and shouting that he had the ladder.


Because this little devil made her first sacrifice at my altar, she thinks she may take any
liberty with me: and what makes her outrageous at times is, that I have, for a long time, studiously,
as she says, slighted her too-readily-offered favours: But is it not very impudent in her to
think, that I will be any man's successor?  It is not come to that neither.  This, thou knowest,
was always my rule--Once any other man's, and I know it, and never more mine.  It is for such
as thou, and thy brethren, to take up with harlots.  I have been always aiming at the merit
of a first discoverer.

The more devil I, perhaps thou wilt say, to endeavour to corrupt the uncorrupted.

But I say, not; since, hence, I have but very few adulteries to answer for.

One affair, indeed, at Paris, with a married lady [I believe I never told thee of it] touched
my conscience a little: yet brought on by the spirit of intrigue, more than by sheer wickedness.
I'll give it thee in brief:

'A French marquis, somewhat in years, employed by his court in a public function at that of
Madrid, had put his charming young new-married wife under the controul and wardship, as I may
say, of his insolent sister, an old prude.

'I saw the lady at the opera.  I liked her at first sight, and better at second, when I knew
the situation she was in.  So, pretending to make my addresses to the prude, got admittance
to both. 

Not that I intend to reduce the constant loyalty of many that are bound by the obligations of their
birth, they would have sacrificed everything for the Sovereign: I only want to give a positive idea
of the state in which generally were those provinces.  The French ladies have no dislike to intrigue.

'The sister began to suspect me: the lady had no mind to part with the company of the only
man who had been permitted to visit her; and told me of her sister's suspicions.  I put her
upon concealing the prude, as if unknown to me, in a closet in one of her own apartments, locking
her in, and putting the key in her own pocket: and she was to question me on the sincerity
of my professions to her sister, in her sister's hearing.

'She complied.  My mistress was locked up.  The lady and I took our seats.  I owned fervent
love, and made high professions: for the marquise put it home to me.  The prude was delighted
with what she heard.

'And how dost thou think it ended?--I took my advantage of the lady herself, who durst not
for her life cry out; and drew her after me to the next apartment, on pretence of going to
seek her sister, who all the time was locked up in the closet.'

No woman ever gave me a private meeting for nothing; my dearest Miss Harlowe excepted.

'My ingenuity obtained my pardon: the lady being unable to forbear laughing throughout the
whole affair, to find both so uncommonly tricked; her gaoleress her prisoner, safe locked up,
and as much pleased as either of us.'

The English, Jack, do not often out-wit the French.

'We had contrivances afterwards equally ingenious, in which the lady, the ice once broken [once
subdued, always subdued] co-operated. At ten o'clock at night the bridge of the steamer had a unique
appearance. Each bed was covered with an awning to defend each one of the terrible mosquitoes or mosquitoes, and overall
appearance was as a field hospital, a camp or a floating cemetery. The Irish, who after working as
a Samson had been foresight to drink like a bomb, was sleeping near me, and snored with the
terrible majesty of the Andean storm.
  She was obliged to throw herself into my protection--nor thought
herself unhappy in it, till childbed pangs seized her: then penitence, and death, overtook
her the same hour!'

Excuse a tear, Belford!--She deserved a better fate!  What hath such a vile inexorable husband
to answer for!--The sister was punished effectually--that pleases me on reflection--the sister
effectually punished!--But perhaps I have told thee this story before.

END OF VOL.4

