THE HISTORY OF THE CALIPH VATHEK

INTRODUCTION

William Beckford, born in 1759, the year before the accession of King George the Third, was
the son of an Alderman who became twice Lord Mayor of London.  His family, originally of Gloucestershire,
had thriven by the plantations in Jamaica; and his father, sent to school in England, and forming
a school friendship at Westminster with Lord Mansfield, began the world in this country as
a merchant, with inheritance of an enormous West India fortune.  William Beckford the elder
became Magistrate, Member of Parliament, Alderman.  Four years before the birth of William
Beckford the younger he became one of the Sheriffs of London, and three years after his son's
birth he was Lord Mayor.  As Mayor he gave very sumptuous dinners that made epochs in the lives
of feeding men.  His son's famous "History of the Caliph Vathek" looks as if it had been planned
for an Alderman's dream after a very heavy dinner at the Mansion House.  There is devotion
in it to the senses, emphasis on heavy dining.  Vathek piqued himself on being the greatest
eater alive; but when the Indian dined with him, though the tables were thirty times covered,
there was still want of more food for the voracious guest.  There is thirst: for at one part
of the dream, when Vathek's mother, his wives, and some eunuchs "assiduously employed themselves
in filling bowls of rock crystal, and emulously presented them to him, it frequently happened
that his avidity exceeded their zeal, insomuch that he would prostrate himself upon the ground
to lap up the water, of which he could never have enough."  And the nightmare incidents of
the Arabian tale all culminate in a most terrible heartburn.  Could the conception of Vathek
have first come to the son after a City dinner?

Though a magnificent host, the elder Beckford was no glutton.  In the year of his first Mayoralty,
1763, Beckford, stood by the side of Alderman Wilkes, attacked for his No. 45 of The North
Briton.  As champion of the popular cause, when he had been again elected to the Mayoralty,
Beckford, on the 23rd of May, 1770, went up to King George the Third at the head of the Aldermen
and Livery with an address which the king snubbed with a short answer.  Beckford asked leave
to reply, and before His Majesty recovered breath from his astonishment, proceeded to reply
in words that remain graven in gold upon his monument in Guildhall. Young Beckford, the author
of "Vathek," was then a boy not quite eleven years old, an only son; and he was left three
years afterwards, by his father's death, heir to an income of a hundred thousand a year, with
a million of cash in hand.

During his minority young Beckford's mother, who was a granddaughter of the sixth Earl of Abercorn,
placed him under a private tutor.  He was taught music by Mozart; and the Earl of Chatham,
who had been his father's friend, thought him so fanciful a boy--"all air and fire"--that he
advised his mother to keep the Arabian Nights out of his way.  Happily she could not, for Vathek
adds the thousand and second to the thousand and one tales, with the difference that it joins
to wild inventions in the spirit of the East touches of playful extravagance that could come
only from an English humourist who sometimes laughed at his own tale, and did not mind turning
its comic side to the reader.  The younger William Beckford had been born at his father's seat
in Wiltshire, Fonthill Abbey; and at seventeen amused himself with a caricature "History of
Extraordinary Painters," encouraging the house-keeper of Fonthill to show the pictures to visitors
as works of Og of Basan and other worthies in her usual edifying manner.

Young Beckford's education was continued for a year and a half at Geneva. He then travelled
in Italy and the Low Countries, and it was at this time that he amused himself by writing,
at the age of about twenty-two, "Vathek" in French, at a single sitting; but he gave his mind
to it and the sitting lasted three days and two nights.  An English version of it was made
by a stranger, and published without permission in 1784. Beckford himself published his tale
at Paris and Lausanne in 1787, one year after the death of a wife to whom he had been three
years married, and who left him with two daughters.

Beckford went to Portugal and Spain; returned to France, and was present at the storming of
the Bastille.  He was often abroad; he bought Gibbon's library at Lausanne, and shut himself
up with it for a time, having a notion of reading it through.  He was occasionally in Parliament,
but did not care for that kind of amusement.  He wrote pieces of less enduring interest than
"Vathek," including two burlesques upon the sentimental novel of his time.  In 1796 he settled
down at Fonthill, and began to spend there abundantly on building and rebuilding.  Perhaps
he thought of Vathek's tower when he employed workmen day and night to build a tower for himself
three hundred feet high, and set them to begin it again when it fell down.  He is said to have
spent upon Fonthill a quarter of a million, living there in much seclusion during the last
twenty years of his life.  He died in 1844.

The happy thought of this William Beckford's life was "Vathek."  It is a story that paints
neither man nor outward nature as they are, but reproduces with happy vivacity the luxuriant
imagery and wild incidents of an Arabian tale.  There is a ghost of a moral in the story of
a sensual Caliph going to the bad, as represented by his final introduction to the Halls of
Eblis.  But the enjoyment given by the book reflects the real enjoyment that the author had
in writing it--enjoyment great enough to cause it to be written at a heat, in one long sitting,
without flagging power.  Young and lively, he delivered himself up to a free run of fancy,
revelled in the piled-up enormities of the Wicked Mother, who had not brought up Vathek properly,
and certainly wrote some parts of his nightmare tale as merrily as if he were designing matter
for a pantomime.

Whoever, in reading "Vathek," takes it altogether seriously, does not read it as it was written.
We must have an eye for the vein of caricature that now and then comes to the surface, and
invites a laugh without disturbing the sense of Eastern extravagance bent seriously upon the
elaboration of a tale crowded with incident and action.  Taken altogether seriously, the book
has faults of construction.  But the faults turn into beauties when we catch the twinkle in
the writer's eye.

H. M.

THE HISTORY OF THE CALIPH VATHEK

Vathek, ninth Caliph of the race of the Abassides, was the son of Motassem, and the grandson
of Haroun Al Raschid.  From an early accession to the throne, and the talents he possessed
to adorn it, his subjects were induced to expect that his reign would be long and happy.  His
figure was pleasing and majestic; but when he was angry one of his eyes became so terrible
that no person could bear to behold it, and the wretch upon whom it was fixed instantly fell
backward, and sometimes expired. For fear, however, of depopulating his dominions and making
his palace desolate he but rarely gave way to his anger.

He surpassed in magnificence all his predecessors.  The palace of Alkoremmi, which his father
Motassem had erected on the hill of Pied Horses, and which commanded the whole city of Samarah,
was in his idea far too scanty; he added therefore five wings, or rather other palaces, which
he destined for the particular gratification of each of his senses.

In the first of these were tables continually covered with the most exquisite dainties, which
were supplied both by night and by day, according to their constant consumption, whilst the
most delicious wines and the choicest cordials flowed forth from a hundred fountains that were
never exhausted.  This palace was called "The Eternal or Unsatiating Banquet."

The second was styled "The Temple of Melody, or the Nectar of the Soul." It was inhabited by
the most skilful musicians and admired poets of the time, who not only displayed their talents
within, but, dispersing in bands without, caused every surrounding scene to reverberate their
songs, which were continually varied in the most delightful succession.

The palace named "The Delight of the Eyes, or the Support of Memory," was one entire enchantment.
Rarities collected from every corner of the earth were there found in such profusion as to
dazzle and confound, but for the order in which they were arranged.  One gallery exhibited
the pictures of the celebrated Mani, and statues that seemed to be alive. Here a well-managed
perspective attracted the sight; there the magic of optics agreeably deceived it; whilst the
naturalist on his part exhibited, in their several classes, the various gifts that Heaven had
bestowed on our globe.  In a word, Vathek omitted nothing in this palace that might gratify
the curiosity of those who resorted to it, although he was not able to satisfy his own, for
he was of all men the most curious.

"The Palace of Perfumes," which was termed likewise "The Incentive to Pleasure," consisted
of various halls, where the different perfumes which the earth produces were kept perpetually
burning in censers of gold. Flambeaux and aromatic lamps were here lighted in open day.  But
the too powerful effects of this agreeable delirium might be avoided by descending into an
immense garden, where an assemblage of every fragrant flower diffused through the air the purest
odours.

The fifth palace, denominated "The Retreat of Joy, or the Dangerous," was frequented by troops
of young females beautiful as the houris, and not less seducing, who never failed to receive
with caresses all whom the Caliph allowed to approach them; for he was by no means disposed
to be jealous, as his own women were secluded within the palace he inhabited himself.

Notwithstanding the sensuality in which Vathek indulged, he experienced no abatement in the
love of his people, who thought that a sovereign immersed in pleasure was not less tolerable
to his subjects than one that employed himself in creating them foes.  But the unquiet and
impetuous disposition of the Caliph would not allow him to rest there; he had studied so much
for his amusement in the life-time of his father as to acquire a great deal of knowledge, though
not a sufficiency to satisfy himself; for he wished to know everything, even sciences that
did not exist.  He was fond of engaging in disputes with the learned, but liked them not to
push their opposition with warmth; he stopped the mouths of those with presents whose mouths
could be stopped, whilst others, whom his liberality was unable to subdue, he sent to prison
to cool their blood: a remedy that often succeeded.

Vathek discovered also a predilection for theological controversy, but it was not with the
orthodox that he usually held.  By this means he induced the zealots to oppose him, and then
persecuted them in return; for he resolved at any rate to have reason on his side.

The great prophet Mahomet, whose vicars the caliphs are, beheld with indignation from his abode
in the seventh heaven the irreligious conduct of such a vicegerent.  "Let us leave him to himself,"
said he to the genii, who are always ready to receive his commands; "let us see to what lengths
his folly and impiety will carry him; if he run into excess we shall know how to chastise him.
Assist him, therefore, to complete the tower which, in imitation of Nimrod, he hath begun,
not, like that great warrior, to escape being drowned, but from the insolent curiosity of penetrating
the secrets of Heaven; he will not divine the fate that awaits him."

The genii obeyed, and when the workmen had raised their structure a cubit in the day-time,
two cubits more were added in the night.  The expedition with which the fabric arose was not
a little flattering to the vanity of Vathek.  He fancied that even insensible matter showed
a forwardness to subserve his designs, not considering that the successes of the foolish and
wicked form the first rod of their chastisement.

His pride arrived at its height when, having ascended for the first time the eleven thousand
stairs of his tower, he cast his eyes below, and beheld men not larger than pismires, mountains
than shells, and cities than bee-hives.  The idea which such an elevation inspired of his own
grandeur completely bewildered him; he was almost ready to adore himself, till, lifting his
eyes upward, he saw the stars as high above him as they appeared when he stood on the surface
of the earth.  He consoled himself, however, for this transient perception of his littleness
with the thought of being great in the eyes of others, and flattered himself that the light
of his mind would extend beyond the reach of his sight, and transfer to the stars the decrees
of his destiny.

With this view the inquisitive prince passed most of his nights on the summit of his tower,
till he became an adept in the mysteries of astrology, and imagined that the planets had disclosed
to him the most marvellous adventures, which were to be accomplished by an extraordinary personage
from a country altogether unknown.  Prompted by motives of curiosity, he had always been courteous
to strangers, but from this instant he redoubled his attention, and ordered it to be announced
by sound of trumpet, through all the streets of Samarah, that no one of his subjects, on peril
of displeasure, should either lodge or detain a traveller, but forthwith bring him to the palace.

Not long after this proclamation there arrived in his metropolis a man so hideous that the
very guards who arrested him were forced to shut their eyes as they led him along.  The Caliph
himself appeared startled at so horrible a visage, but joy succeeded to this emotion of terror
when the stranger displayed to his view such rarities as he had never before seen, and of which
he had no conception.

In reality, nothing was ever so extraordinary as the merchandise this stranger produced; most
of his curiosities, which were not less admirable for their workmanship than splendour, had,
besides, their several virtues described on a parchment fastened to each.  There were slippers
which enabled the feet to walk; knives that out without the motion of a hand; sabres which
dealt the blow at the person they were wished to strike; and the whole enriched with gems that
were hitherto unknown.

The sabres, whose blades emitted a dazzling radiance, fixed more than all the Caliph's attention,
who promised himself to decipher at his leisure the uncouth characters engraven on their sides.
Without, therefore, demanding their price, he ordered all the coined gold to be brought from
his treasury, and commanded the merchant to take what he pleased; the stranger complied with
modesty and silence.

Vathek, imagining that the merchant's taciturnity was occasioned by the awe which his presence
inspired, encouraged him to advance, and asked him, with an air of condescension, "Who he was?
whence he came? and where he obtained such beautiful commodities?"  The man, or rather monster,
instead of making a reply, thrice rubbed his forehead, which, as well as his body, was blacker
than ebony, four times clapped his paunch, the projection of which was enormous, opened wide
his huge eyes, which glowed like firebrands, began to laugh with a hideous noise, and discovered
his long amber-coloured teeth bestreaked with green.

The Caliph, though a little startled, renewed his inquiries, but without being able to procure
a reply; at which, beginning to be ruffled, he exclaimed: "Knowest thou, varlet, who I am?
and at whom thou art aiming thy gibes?"  Then, addressing his guards, "Have ye heard him speak?
is he dumb?"

"He hath spoken," they replied, "though but little."

"Let him speak again, then," said Vathek, "and tell me who he is, from whence he came, and
where he procured these singular curiosities, or I swear by the ass of Balaam that I will make
him rue his pertinacity."

The menace was accompanied by the Caliph with one of his angry and perilous glances, which
the stranger sustained without the slightest emotion, although his eyes were fixed on the terrible
eye of the prince.

No words can describe the amazement of the courtiers when they beheld this rude merchant withstand
the encounter unshocked.  They all fell prostrate with their faces on the ground to avoid the
risk of their lives, and continued in the same abject posture till the Caliph exclaimed in
a furious tone, "Up, cowards! seize the miscreant! see that he be committed to prison and guarded
by the best of my soldiers!  Let him, however, retain the money I gave him; it is not my intent
to take from him his property; I only want him to speak."

No sooner had he uttered these words than the stranger was surrounded, pinioned with strong
fetters, and hurried away to the prison of the great tower, which was encompassed by seven
empalements of iron bars, and armed with spikes in every direction longer and sharper than spits.

The Caliph, nevertheless, remained in the most violent agitation; he sat down indeed to eat,
but of the three hundred covers that were daily placed before him could taste of no more than
thirty-two.  A diet to which he had been so little accustomed was sufficient of itself to prevent
him from sleeping; what then must be its effect when joined to the anxiety that preyed upon
his spirits?  At the first glimpse of dawn he hastened to the prison, again to importune this
intractable stranger; but the rage of Vathek exceeded all bounds on finding the prison empty,
the gates burst asunder, and his guards lying lifeless around him.  In the paroxysm of his
passion he fell furiously on the poor carcases, and kicked them till evening without intermission.
His courtiers and vizirs exerted their efforts to soothe his extravagance, but finding every
expedient ineffectual, they all united in one vociferation: "The Caliph is gone mad! the Caliph
is out of his senses!"

This outcry, which soon resounded through the streets of Samarah, at length reaching the ears
of Carathis, his mother, she flew in the utmost consternation to try her ascendency on the
mind of her son.  Her tears and caresses called off his attention, and he was prevailed upon
by her entreaties to be brought back to the palace.

Carathis, apprehensive of leaving Vathek to himself, caused him to be put to bed, and seating
herself by him, endeavoured by her conversation to heal and compose him.  Nor could any one
have attempted it with better success, for the Caliph not only loved her as a mother, but respected
her as a person of superior genius; it was she who had induced him, being a Greek herself,
to adopt all the sciences and systems of her country, which good Mussulmans hold in such thorough
abhorrence.  Judicial astrology was one of those systems in which Carathis was a perfect adept;
she began, therefore, with reminding her son of the promise which the stars had made him, and
intimated an intention of consulting them again.

"Alas!" sighed the Caliph, as soon as he could speak, "what a fool have I been! not for the
kicks bestowed on my guards who so tamely submitted to death, but for never considering that
this extraordinary man was the same the planets had foretold, whom, instead of ill-treating,
I should have conciliated by all the arts of persuasion."

"The past," said Carathis, "cannot be recalled, but it behoves us to think of the future; perhaps
you may again see the object you so much regret; it is possible the inscriptions on the sabres
will afford information.  Eat, therefore, and take thy repose, my dear son; we will consider
to-morrow in what manner to act."

Vathek yielded to her counsel as well as he could, and arose in the morning with a mind more
at ease.  The sabres he commanded to be instantly brought, and poring upon them through a green
glass, that their glittering might not dazzle, he set himself in earnest to decipher the inscriptions;
but his reiterated attempts were all of them nugatory; in vain did he beat his head and bite
his nails, not a letter of the whole was he able to ascertain.  So unlucky a disappointment
would have undone him again had not Carathis by good fortune entered the apartment.

"Have patience, son!" said she; "you certainly are possessed of every important science, but
the knowledge of languages is a trifle at best, and the accomplishment of none but a pedant.
Issue forth a proclamation that you will confer such rewards as become your greatness upon
any one that shall interpret what you do not understand, and what it is beneath you to learn;
you will soon find your curiosity gratified."

"That may be," said the Caliph; "but in the meantime I shall be horribly disgusted by a crowd
of smatterers, who will come to the trial as much for the pleasure of retailing their jargon
as from the hope of gaining the reward.  To avoid this evil it will be proper to add that I
will put every candidate to death who shall fail to give satisfaction; for, thank Heaven! I
have skill enough to distinguish between one that translates and one that invents."

"Of that I have no doubt," replied Carathis; "but to put the ignorant to death is somewhat
severe, and may be productive of dangerous effects; content yourself with commanding their
beards to be burnt--beards in a state are not quite so essential as men."

The Caliph submitted to the reasons of his mother, and sending for Morakanabad, his prime vizir,
said: "Let the common criers proclaim, not only in Samarah, but throughout every city in my
empire, that whosoever will repair hither, and decipher certain characters which appear to
be inexplicable, shall experience the liberality for which I am renowned; but that all who
fail upon trial shall have their beards burnt off to the last hair.  Let them add also that
I will bestow fifty beautiful slaves, and as many jars of apricots from the Isle of Kirmith,
upon any man that shall bring me intelligence of the stranger."

The subjects of the Caliph, like their Sovereign, being great admirers of women and apricots
from Kirmith, felt their mouths water at these promises, but were totally unable to gratify
their hankering, for no one knew which way the stranger had gone.

As to the Caliph's other requisition, the result was different.  The learned, the half-learned,
and those who were neither, but fancied themselves equal to both, came boldly to hazard their
beards, and all shamefully lost them.

The exaction of these forfeitures, which found sufficient employment for the eunuchs, gave
them such a smell of singed hair as greatly to disgust the ladies of the seraglio, and make
it necessary that this new occupation of their guardians should be transferred into other hands.

At length, however, an old man presented himself whose beard was a cubit and a half longer
than any that had appeared before him.  The officers of the palace whispered to each other,
as they ushered him in, "What a pity such a beard should be burnt!"  Even the Caliph, when
he saw it, concurred with them in opinion, but his concern was entirely needless. This venerable
personage read the characters with facility, and explained them verbatim as follows: "We were
made where everything good is made; we are the least of the wonders of a place where all is
wonderful, and deserving the sight of the first potentate on earth."

"You translate admirably!" cried Vathek; "I know to what these marvellous characters allude.
Let him receive as many robes of honour and thousands of sequins of gold as he hath spoken
words.  I am in some measure relieved from the perplexity that embarrassed me!"

Vathek invited the old main to dine, and even to remain some days in the palace.  Unluckily
for him, he accepted the offer; for the Caliph, having ordered him next morning to be called,
said: "Read again to me what you have read already; I cannot hear too often the promise that
is made me, the completion of which I languish to obtain."

The old man forthwith put on his green spectacles, but they instantly dropped from his nose
on perceiving that the characters he had read the day preceding had given place to others of
different import.

"What ails you?" asked the Caliph; "and why these symptoms of wonder?"

"Sovereign of the world," replied the old man, "these sabres hold another language to-day from
that they yesterday held."

"How say you?" returned Vathek; "but it matters not! tell me, if you can, what they mean."

"It is this, my lord," rejoined the old man: "Woe to the rash mortal who seeks to know that
of which he should remain ignorant, and to undertake that which surpasseth his power!"

"And woe to thee!" cried the Caliph, in a burst of indignation; "to-day thou art void of understanding.
Begone from my presence; they shall burn but the half of thy beard, because, thou wert yesterday
fortunate in guessing; my gifts I never resume."

The old man, wise enough to perceive he had luckily escaped, considering the folly of disclosing
so disgusting a truth, immediately withdrew, and appeared not again.

But it was not long before Vathek discovered abundant reason to regret his precipitation; for
though he could not decipher the characters himself, yet by constantly poring upon them he
plainly perceived that they every day changed, and unfortunately no other candidate offered
to explain them.  This perplexing occupation inflamed his blood, dazzled his sight, and brought
on a giddiness and debility that he could not support. He failed not, however, though in so
reduced a condition, to be often carried to his tower, as he flattered himself that he might
there read in the stars which he went to consult something more congenial to his wishes: but
in this his hopes were deluded, for his eyes, dimmed by the vapours of his head, began to subserve
his curiosity so ill, that he beheld nothing but a thick dun cloud, which he took for the most
direful of omens.

Agitated with so much anxiety, Vathek entirely lost all firmness; a fever seized him, and his
appetite failed.  Instead of being one of the greatest eaters, he became as distinguished for
drinking.  So insatiable was the thirst which tormented him that his mouth, like a funnel,
was always open to receive the various liquors that might be poured into it, and especially
cold water, which calmed him more than every other.

This unhappy prince being thus incapacitated for the enjoyment of any pleasure, commanded the
palaces of the five senses to be shut up, forbore to appear in public, either to display his
magnificence or administer justice, and retired to the inmost apartment of his harem.  As he
had ever been an indulgent husband, his wives, overwhelmed with grief at his deplorable situation,
incessantly offered their prayers for his health, and unremittingly supplied him with water.

In the meantime the Princess Carathis, whose affliction no words can describe, instead of restraining
herself to sobbing and tears, was closeted daily with the Vizir Morakanabad, to find out some
cure or mitigation of the Caliph's disease.  Under the persuasion that it was caused by enchantment,
they turned over together, leaf by leaf, all the books of magic that might point out a remedy,
and caused the horrible stranger, whom they accused as the enchanter, to be everywhere sought
for with the strictest diligence.

At the distance of a few miles from Samarah stood a high mountain, whose sides were swarded
with wild thyme and basil, and its summit overspread with so delightful a plain, that it might
be taken for the paradise destined for the faithful.  Upon it grew a hundred thickets of eglantine
and other fragrant shrubs, a hundred arbours of roses, jessamine, and honeysuckle, as many
clumps of orange trees, cedar, and citron, whose branches, interwoven with the palm, the pomegranate,
and the vine, presented every luxury that could regale the eye or the taste.  The ground was
strewed with violets, hare-bells, and pansies, in the midst of which sprang forth tufts of
jonquils, hyacinths, and carnations, with every other perfume that impregnates the air.  Four
fountains, not less clear than deep, and so abundant as to slake the thirst of ten armies,
seemed profusely placed here to make the scene more resemble the garden of Eden, which was
watered by the four sacred rivers.  Here the nightingale sang the birth of the rose, her well-beloved,
and at the same time lamented its short-lived beauty; whilst the turtle deplored the loss of
more substantial pleasures, and the wakeful lark hailed the rising light that re-animates the
whole creation.  Here more than anywhere the mingled melodies of birds expressed the various
passions they inspired, as if the exquisite fruits which they pecked at pleasure had given
them a double energy.

To this mountain Vathek was sometimes brought for the sake of breathing a purer air, and especially
to drink at will of the four fountains, which were reputed in the highest degree salubrious
and sacred to himself.

One day, when this unhappy prince had been long lying in so debasing a posture, a voice, hoarse
but strong, thus addressed him: "Why assumest thou the function of a dog, O Caliph, so proud
of thy dignity and power?"

At this apostrophe he raised his head, and beheld the stranger that had caused him so much
affliction.  Inflamed with anger at the sight, he exclaimed--

"Accursed Giaour! what comest thou hither to do?  Is it not enough to have transformed a prince
remarkable for his agility into one of those leather barrels which the Bedouin Arabs carry
on their camels when they traverse the deserts?  Perceivest thou not that I may perish by drinking
to excess no less than by a total abstinence?"

"Drink then this draught," said the stranger, as he presented to him a phial of a red and yellow
mixture; "and, to satiate the thirst of thy soul as well as of thy body, know that I am an
Indian, but from a region of India which is wholly unknown."

The Caliph delighted to see his desires accomplished in part, and flattering himself with the
hope of obtaining their entire fulfilment, without a moment's hesitation swallowed the potion,
and instantaneously found his health restored, his thirst appeased, and his limbs as agile as ever.

In the transports of his joy Vathek leaped upon the neck of the frightful Indian, and kissed
his horrid mouth and hollow cheeks as though they had been the coral lips and the lilies and
roses of his most beautiful wives; whilst they, less terrified than jealous at the sight, dropped
their veils to hide the blush of mortification that suffused their foreheads.

Nor would the scene have closed here, had not Carathis, with all the art of insinuation, a
little repressed the raptures of her son.  Having prevailed upon him to return to Samarah,
she caused a herald to precede him, whom she commanded to proclaim as loudly as possible: "The
wonderful stranger hath appeared again; he hath healed the Caliph; he hath spoken! he hath spoken!"

Forthwith all the inhabitants of this vast city quitted their habitations, and ran together
in crowds to see the procession of Vathek and the Indian, whom they now blessed as much as
they had before execrated, incessantly shouting: "He hath healed our sovereign; he hath spoken!
he hath spoken!"  Nor were these words forgotten in the public festivals which were celebrated
the same evening, to testify the general joy; for the poets applied them as a chorus to all
the songs they composed.

The Caliph in the meanwhile caused the palaces of the senses to be again set open; and, as
he found himself prompted to visit that of taste in preference to the rest, immediately ordered
a splendid entertainment, to which his great officers and favourite courtiers were all invited.
The Indian, who was placed near the prince, seemed to think that as a proper acknowledgment
of so distinguished a privilege he could neither eat, drink, nor talk too much.  The various
dainties were no sooner served up than they vanished, to the great mortification of Vathek,
who piqued himself on being the greatest eater alive, and at this time in particular had an
excellent appetite.

The rest of the company looked round at each other in amazement; but the Indian, without appearing
to observe it, quaffed large bumpers to the health of each of them, sung in a style altogether
extravagant, related stories at which he laughed immoderately, and poured forth extemporaneous
verses, which would not have been thought bad but for the strange grimaces with which they
were uttered.  In a word, his loquacity was equal to that of a hundred astrologers; he ate
as much as a hundred porters, and caroused in proportion.

The Caliph, notwithstanding the table had been thirty times covered, found himself incommoded
by the voraciousness of his guest, who was now considerably declined in the prince's esteem.
Vathek, however, being unwilling to betray the chagrin he could hardly disguise, said in a
whisper to Bababalouk, the chief of his eunuchs: "You see how enormous his performances in
every way are; what would be the consequence should he get at my wives?  Go! redouble your
vigilance, and be sure look well to my Circassians, who would be more to his taste than all
of the rest."

The bird of the morning had thrice renewed his song when the hour of the Divan sounded.  Vathek,
in gratitude to his subjects, having promised to attend, immediately rose from table and repaired
thither, leaning upon his vizir, who could scarcely support him, so disordered was the poor
prince by the wine he had drunk, and still more by the extravagant vagaries of his boisterous
guest.

The vizirs, the officers of the crown and of the law, arranged themselves in a semicircle about
their sovereign, and preserved a respectful silence, whilst the Indian, who looked as cool
as if come from a fast, sat down without ceremony on the step of the throne, laughing in his
sleeve at the indignation with which his temerity had filled the spectators.

The Caliph, however, whose ideas were confused and his head embarrassed, went on administering
justice at haphazard, till at length the prime vizir, perceiving his situation, hit upon a
sudden expedient to interrupt the audience and rescue the honour of his master, to whom he
said in a whisper: "My Lord, the Princess Carathis, who hath passed the night in consulting
the planets, informs you that they portend you evil, and the danger is urgent.  Beware lest
this stranger, whom you have so lavishly recompensed for his magical gewgaws, should make some
attempt on your life; his liquor, which at first had the appearance of effecting your cure,
may be no more than a poison of a sudden operation.  Slight not this surmise; ask him at least
of what it was compounded, whence he procured it, and mention the sabres which you seem to
have forgotten."

Vathek, to whom the insolent airs of the stranger became every moment less supportable, intimated
to his vizir by a wink of acquiescence that he would adopt his advice, and at once turning
towards the Indian, said: "Get up and declare in full Divan of what drugs the liquor was compounded
you enjoined me to take, for it is suspected to be poison; add also the explanation I have
so earnestly desired concerning the sabres you sold me, and thus show your gratitude for the
favours heaped on you."

Having pronounced these words in as moderate a tone as a caliph well could, he waited in silent
expectation for an answer.  But the Indian, still keeping his seat, began to renew his loud
shouts of laughter, and exhibit the same horrid grimaces he had shown them before, without
vouchsafing a word in reply.  Vathek, no longer able to brook such insolence, immediately kicked
him from the steps; instantly descending, repeated his blow, and persisted with such assiduity
as incited all who were present to follow his example.  Every foot was aimed at the Indian,
and no sooner had any one given him a kick than he felt himself constrained to reiterate the
stroke.

The stranger afforded them no small entertainment; for, being both short and plump, he collected
himself into a ball, and rolled round on all sides at the blows of his assailants, who pressed
after him wherever he turned with an eagerness beyond conception, whilst their numbers were
every moment increasing.  The ball, indeed, in passing from one apartment to another, drew
every person after it that came in its way, insomuch that the whole palace was thrown into
confusion, and resounded with a tremendous clamour.  The women of the harem, amazed at the
uproar, flew to their blinds to discover the cause; but no sooner did they catch a glimpse
of the ball, than feeling themselves unable to refrain, they broke from the clutches of their
eunuchs, who to stop their flight pinched them till they bled, but in vain; whilst themselves,
though trembling with terror at the escape of their charge, were as incapable of resisting
the attraction.

The Indian, after having traversed the halls, galleries, chambers, kitchens, gardens, and stables
of the palace, at last took his course through the courts; whilst the Caliph, pursuing him
closer than the rest, bestowed as many kicks as he possibly could, yet not without receiving
now and then one, which his competitors in their eagerness designed for the ball.

Carathis, Morakanabad, and two or three old vizirs, whose wisdom had hitherto withstood the
attraction, wishing to prevent Vathek from exposing himself in the presence of his subjects,
fell down in his way to impede the pursuit; but he, regardless of their obstruction, leaped
over their heads, and went on as before.  They then ordered the Muezzins to call the people
to prayers, both for the sake of getting them out of the way and of endeavouring by their petitions
to avert the calamity; but neither of these expedients was a whit more successful: the sight
of this fatal ball was alone sufficient to draw after it every beholder.  The Muezzins themselves,
though they saw it but at a distance, hastened down from their minarets and mixed with the
crowd, which continued to increase in so surprising a manner, that scarce an inhabitant was
left in Samarah, except the aged, the sick confined to their beds, and infants at the breast,
whose nurses could run more nimbly without them.  Even Carathis, Morakanabad, and the rest
were all become of the party.

The shrill screams of the females, who had broken from their apartments, and were unable to
extricate themselves from the pressure of the crowd, together with those of the eunuchs jostling
after them, terrified lest their charge should escape from their sight, increased by the execrations
of husbands urging forward and menacing both, kicks given and received, stumblings and overthrows
at every step; in a word, the confusion that universally prevailed rendered Samarah like a
city taken by storm and devoted to absolute plunder.

At last the cursed Indian, who still preserved his rotundity of figure, after passing through
all the streets and public places, and leaving them empty, rolled onwards to the plain of Catoul,
and traversed the valley at the foot of the mountain of the Four Fountains.

As a continual fall of water had excavated an immense gulf in the valley, whose opposite side
was closed in by a steep acclivity, the Caliph and his attendants were apprehensive lest the
ball should bound into the chasm, and, to prevent it, redoubled their efforts, but in vain.
The Indian persevered in his onward direction, and, as had been apprehended, glancing from
the precipice with the rapidity of lightning, was lost in the gulf below.

Vathek would have followed the perfidious Giaour, had not an invisible agency arrested his
progress.  The multitude that pressed after him were at once checked in the same manner, and
a calm instantaneously ensued. They all gazed at each other with an air of astonishment; and,
notwithstanding that the loss of veils and turbans, together with torn habits and dust blended
with sweat, presented a most laughable spectacle, there was not one smile to be seen; on the
contrary, all, with looks of confusion and sadness, returned in silence to Samarah, and retired
to their inmost apartments, without ever reflecting that they had been impelled by an invisible
power into the extravagance for which they reproached themselves; for it is but just that men,
who so often arrogate to their own merit the good of which they are but instruments, should
attribute to themselves the absurdities which they could not prevent.

The Caliph was the only person that refused to leave the valley.  He commanded his tents to
be pitched there, and stationed himself on the very edge of the precipice, in spite of the
representations of Carathis and Morakanabad, who pointed out the hazard of its brink giving
way, and the vicinity to the magician that had so severely tormented him.  Vathek derided all
their remonstrances, and, having ordered a thousand flambeaux to be lighted, and directed his
attendants to proceed in lighting more, lay down on the slippery margin, and attempted, by
help of this artificial splendour, to look through that gloom which all the fires of the empyrean
had been insufficient to pervade.  One while he fancied to himself voices arising from the
depth of the gulf; at another he seemed to distinguish the accents of the Indian, but all was
no more than the hollow murmur of waters, and the din of the cataracts that rushed from steep
to steep down the sides of the mountain.

Having passed the night in this cruel perturbation, the Caliph at daybreak retired to his tent,
where, without taking the least sustenance, he continued to doze till the dusk of evening began
again to come on.  He then resumed his vigils as before, and persevered in observing them for
many nights together.  At length, fatigued with so successless an employment, he sought relief
from change.  To this end he sometimes paced with hasty strides across the plain, and, as he
wildly gazed at the stars, reproached them with having deceived him; but, lo! on a sudden the
clear blue sky appeared streaked over with streams of blood, which reached from the valley
even to the city of Samarah.  As this awful phenomenon seemed to touch his tower, Vathek at
first thought of re-pairing thither to view it more distinctly, but feeling himself unable
to advance, and being overcome with apprehension, he muffled up his face in his robe.

Terrifying as these prodigies were, this impression upon him was no more than momentary, and
served only to stimulate his love of the marvellous. Instead, therefore, of returning to his
palace, he persisted in the resolution of abiding where the Indian vanished from his view.
One night, however, while he was walking as usual on the plain, the moon and the stars at once
were eclipsed, and a total darkness ensued; the earth trembled beneath him, and a voice came
forth, the voice of the Giaour, who, in accents more sonorous than thunder, thus addressed
him: "Wouldest thou devote thyself to me?  Adore then the terrestrial influences, and abjure
Mahomet.  On these conditions I will bring thee to the palace of subterranean fire; there shalt
thou behold in immense depositories the treasures which the stars have promised thee, and which
will be conferred by those Intelligences whom thou shalt thus render propitious.  It was from
thence I brought my sabres, and it is there that Soliman Ben Daoud reposes, surrounded by the
talismans that control the world."

The astonished Caliph trembled as he answered, yet in a style that showed him to be no novice
in preternatural adventures: "Where art thou? be present to my eyes; dissipate the gloom that
perplexes me, and of which I deem thee the cause; after the many flambeaux I have burnt to
discover thee, thou mayst at least grant a glimpse of thy horrible visage."

"Abjure, then, Mahomet," replied the Indian, "and promise me full proofs of thy sincerity,
otherwise thou shalt never behold me again."

The unhappy Caliph, instigated by insatiable curiosity, lavished his promises in the utmost
profusion.  The sky immediately brightened; and by the light of the planets, which seemed almost
to blaze, Vathek beheld the earth open, and at the extremity of a vast black chasm, a portal
of ebony, before which stood the Indian, still blacker, holding in his hand a golden key that
caused the lock to resound.

"How," cried Vathek, "can I descend to thee without the certainty of breaking my neck? come,
take me, and instantly open the portal."

"Not so fast," replied the Indian, "impatient Caliph!  Know that I am parched with thirst,
and cannot open this door till my thirst be thoroughly appeased.  I require the blood of fifty
of the most beautiful sons of thy vizirs and great men, or neither can my thirst nor thy curiosity
be satisfied.  Return to Samarah, procure for me this necessary libation, come back hither,
throw it thyself into this chasm, and then shalt thou see!"

Having thus spoken, the Indian turned his back on the Caliph, who, incited by the suggestion
of demons, resolved on the direful sacrifice. He now pretended to have regained his tranquillity,
and set out for Samarah amidst the acclamations of a people who still loved him, and forbore
not to rejoice when they believed him to have recovered his reason.  So successfully did he
conceal the emotion of his heart, that even Carathis and Morakanabad were equally deceived
with the rest. Nothing was heard of but festivals and rejoicings; the ball, which no tongue
had hitherto ventured to mention, was again brought on the tapis; a general laugh went round,
though many, still smarting under the hands of the surgeon from the hurts received in that
memorable adventure, had no great reason for mirth.

The prevalence of this gay humour was not a little grateful to Vathek, as perceiving how much
it conduced to his project.  He put on the appearance of affability to every one, but especially
to his vizirs and the grandees of his court, whom he failed not to regale with a sumptuous
banquet, during which he insensibly inclined the conversation to the children of his guests.
Having asked with a good-natured air who of them were blessed with the handsomest boys, every
father at once asserted the pretensions of his own, and the contest imperceptibly grew so warm
that nothing could have withholden them from coming to blows but their profound reverence for
the person of the Caliph.  Under the pretence, therefore, of reconciling the disputants, Vathek
took upon him to decide; and with this view commanded the boys to be brought.

It was not long before a troop of these poor children made their appearance, all equipped by
their fond mothers with such ornaments as might give the greatest relief to their beauty or
most advantageously display the graces of their age.  But whilst this brilliant assemblage
attracted the eyes and hearts of every one besides, the Caliph scrutinized each in his turn
with a malignant avidity that passed for attention, and selected from their number the fifty
whom he judged the Giaour would prefer.

With an equal show of kindness as before, he proposed to celebrate a festival on the plain
for the entertainment of his young favourites, who he said ought to rejoice still more than
all at the restoration of his health, on account of the favours he intended for them.

The Caliph's proposal was received with the greatest delight, and soon published through Samarah;
litters, camels, and horses were prepared. Women and children, old men and young, every one
placed himself in the station he chose.  The cavalcade set forward, attended by all the confectioners
in the city and its precincts; the populace following on foot composed an amazing crowd, and
occasioned no little noise; all was joy, nor did any one call to mind what most of them had
suffered when they first travelled the road they were now passing so gaily.

The evening was serene, the air refreshing, the sky clear, and the flowers exhaled their fragrance;
the beams of the declining sun, whose mild splendour reposed on the summit of the mountain,
shed a glow of ruddy light over its green declivity and the white flocks sporting upon it;
no sounds were audible save the murmurs of the Four Fountains, and the reeds and voices of
shepherds calling to each other from different eminences.

The lovely innocents proceeding to the destined sacrifice added not a little to the hilarity
of the scene; they approached the plain full of sportiveness, some coursing butterflies, others
culling flowers, or picking up the shining little pebbles that attracted their notice.  At
intervals they nimbly started from each other, for the sake of being caught again, and mutually
imparting a thousand caresses.

The dreadful chasm at whose bottom the portal of ebony was placed began to appear at a distance;
it looked like a black streak that divided the plain.  Morakanabad and his companions took
it for some work which the Caliph had ordered; unhappy men! little did they surmise for what
it was destined.

Vathek, not liking they should examine it too nearly, stopped the procession, and ordered a
spacious circle to be formed on this side, at some distance from the accursed chasm.  The body-guard
of eunuchs was detached to measure out the lists intended for the games, and prepare ringles
for the lines to keep off the crowd.  The fifty competitors were soon stripped, and presented
to the admiration of the spectators the suppleness and grace of their delicate limbs; their
eyes sparkled with a joy which those of their fond parents reflected.  Every one offered wishes
for the little candidate nearest his heart, and doubted not of his being victorious; a breathless
suspense awaited the contest of these amiable and innocent victims.

The Caliph, awaiting himself of the first moment to retire from the crowd, advanced towards
the chasm, and there heard, yet not without shuddering, the voice of the Indian, who, gnashing
his teeth, eagerly demanded: "Where are they? where are they? perceivest thou not how my mouth
waters?"

"Relentless Giaour!" answered Vathek, with emotion, "can nothing content thee but the massacre
of these lovely victims!  Ah! wert thou to behold their beauty it must certainly move thy compassion."

"Perdition on thy compassion, babbler!" cried the Indian.  "Give them me, instantly give them,
or my portal shall be closed against thee for ever!"

"Not so loudly," replied the Caliph, blushing.

"I understand thee," returned the Giaour, with the grin of an ogre; "thou wantest to summon
up more presence of mind; I will for a moment forbear."

During this exquisite dialogue the games went forward with all alacrity, and at length concluded
just as the twilight began to overcast the mountains.  Vathek, who was still standing on the
edge of the chasm, called out, with all his might: "Let my fifty little favourites approach
me separately, and let them come in the order of their success.  To the first I will give my
diamond bracelet, to the second my collar of emeralds, to the third my aigret of rubies, to
the fourth my girdle of topazes, and to the rest each a part of my dress, even down to my slippers."

This declaration was received with reiterated acclamations, and all extolled the liberality
of a prince who would thus strip himself for the amusement of his subjects and the encouragement
of the rising generation.

The Caliph in the meantime undressed himself by degrees, and, raising his arm as high as he
was able, made each of the prizes glitter in the air; but whilst he delivered it with one hand
to the child, who sprang forward to receive it, he with the other pushed the poor innocent
into the gulf, where the Giaour, with a sullen muttering, incessantly repeated, "More! more!"

This dreadful device was executed with so much dexterity that the boy who was approaching him
remained unconscious of the fate of his forerunner; and as to the spectators, the shades of
evening, together with their distance, precluded them from perceiving any object distinctly.
Vathek, having in this manner thrown in the last of the fifty, and expecting that the Giaour
on receiving them would have presented the key, already fancied himself as great as Soliman,
and consequently above being amenable for what he had done: when, to his utter amazement, the
chasm closed, and the around became as entire as the rest of the plain.

No language could express his rage and despair.  He execrated the perfidy of the Indian, loaded
him with the most infamous invectives, and stamped with his foot as resolving to be heard;
he persisted in this demeanour till his strength failed him, and then fell on the earth like
one void of sense.  His vizirs and grandees, who were nearer than the rest, supposed him at
first to be sitting on the grass at play with their amiable children; but at length, prompted
by doubt, they advanced towards the spot, and found the Caliph alone, who wildly demanded what
they wanted.

"Our children! our children!" cried they.

"It is assuredly pleasant," said he, "to make me accountable for accidents; your children while
at play fell from the precipice that was here, and I should have experienced their fate had
I not been saved by a sudden start back."

At these words the fathers of the fifty boys cried out aloud, the mothers repeated their exclamations
an octave higher, whilst the rest, without knowing the cause, soon drowned the voices of both
with still louder lamentations of their own.

"Our Caliph," said they--and the report soon circulated--"Our Caliph has played us this trick
to gratify his accursed Giaour.  Let us punish him for his perfidy! let us avenge ourselves!
let us avenge the blood of the innocent! let us throw this cruel prince into the gulf that
is near, and let his name be mentioned no more!"

At this rumour and these menaces, Carathis, full of consternation, hastened to Morakanabad,
and said: "Vizir, you have lost two beautiful boys, and must necessarily be the most afflicted
of fathers, but you are virtuous; save your master."

"I will brave every hazard," replied the vizir, "to rescue him from his present danger, but
afterwards will abandon him to his fate.  Bababalouk," continued he, "put yourself at the head
of your eunuchs; disperse the mob, and, if possible, bring back this unhappy prince to his
palace." Bababalouk and his fraternity, felicitating each other in a low voice on their disability
of ever being fathers, obeyed the mandate of the vizir; who, seconding their exertions to the
utmost of his power, at length accomplished his generous enterprise, and retired as he resolved,
to lament at his leisure.

No sooner had the Caliph re-entered his palace than Carathis commanded the doors to be fastened;
but, perceiving the tumult to be still violent, and hearing the imprecations which resounded
from all quarters, she said to her son: "Whether the populace be right or wrong, it behoves
you to provide for your safety; let us retire to your own apartment, and from thence through
the subterranean passage, known only to ourselves, into your tower; there, with the assistance
of the mutes who never leave it, we may be able to make some resistance.  Bababalouk, supposing
us to be still in the palace, will guard its avenues for his own sake; and we shall soon find,
without the counsels of that blubberer Morakanabad, what expedient may be the best to adopt."

Vathek, without making the least reply, acquiesced in his mother's proposal, and repeated as
he went: "Nefarious Giaour! where art thou! hast thou not yet devoured those poor children?
where are thy sabres? thy golden key? thy talismans?"

Carathis, who guessed from these interrogations a part of the truth, had no difficulty to apprehend
in getting at the whole, as soon as he should be a little composed in his tower.  This princess
was so far from being influenced by scruples that she was as wicked as woman could be, which
is not saying a little, for the sex pique themselves on their superiority in every competition.
The recital of the Caliph, therefore, occasioned neither terror nor surprise to his mother;
she felt no emotion but from the promises of the Giaour, and said to her son: "This Giaour,
it must be confessed, is somewhat sanguinary in his taste, but the terrestrial powers are always
terrible; nevertheless, what the one hath promised and the others can confer will prove a sufficient
indemnification; no crimes should be thought too dear for such a reward! forbear then to revile
the Indian; you have not fulfilled the conditions to which his services are annexed; for instance,
is not a sacrifice to the subterranean Genii required? and should we not be prepared to offer
it as soon as the tumult is subsided?  This charge I will take on myself, and have no doubt
of succeeding by means of your treasures, which, as there are now so many others in store,
may without fear be exhausted."

Accordingly the princess, who possessed the most consummate skill in the art of persuasion,
went immediately back through the subterranean passage; and presenting herself to the populace,
from a window of the palace, began to harangue them with all the address of which she was mistress,
whilst Bababalouk showered money from both hands amongst the crowd, who by these united means
were soon appeased; every person retired to his home, and Carathis returned to the tower.

Prayer at break of day was announced, when Carathis and Vathek ascended the steps which led
to the summit of the tower, where they remained for some time, though the weather was lowering
and wet.  This impending gloom corresponded with their malignant dispositions; but when the
sun began to break through the clouds they ordered a pavilion to be raised, as a screen from
the intrusion of his beams.  The Caliph, overcome with fatigue, sought refreshment from repose,
at the same time hoping that significant dreams might attend on his slumbers; whilst the indefatigable
Carathis, followed by a party of her mutes, descended to prepare whatever she judged proper
for the oblation of the approaching night.

By secret stairs, known only to herself and to her son, she first repaired to the mysterious
recesses in which were deposited the mummies that had been brought from the catacombs of the
ancient Pharaohs; of these she ordered several to be taken.  From thence she resorted to a
gallery where, under the guard of fifty female negroes, mute and blind of the right eye, were
preserved the oil of the most venomous serpents, rhinoceros' horns, and woods of a subtle and
penetrating odour procured from the interior of the Indies, together with a thousand other
horrible rarities.  This collection had been formed for a purpose like the present by Carathis
herself, from a presentment that she might one day enjoy some intercourse with the infernal
powers to whom she had ever been passionately attached, and to whose taste she was no stranger.

To familiarise herself the better with the horrors in view, the princess remained in the company
of her negresses, who squinted in the most amiable manner from the only eye they had, and leered
with exquisite delight at the skulls and skeletons which Carathis had drawn forth from her
cabinets, whose key she entrusted to no one; all of them making contortions, and uttering a
frightful jargon, but very amusing to the princess; till at last, being stunned by their gibbering,
and suffocated by the potency of their exhalations, she was forced to quit the gallery, after
stripping it of a part of its treasures.

Whilst she was thus occupied, the Caliph, who, instead of the visions he expected, had acquired
in these insubstantial regions a voracious appetite, was greatly provoked at the negresses;
for, having totally forgotten their deafness, he had impatiently asked them for food, and seeing
them regardless of his demand, he began to cuff, pinch, and push them, till Carathis arrived
to terminate a scene so indecent, to the great content of these miserable creatures, who, having
been brought up by her, understood all her signs, and communicated in the same way their thoughts
in return.

"Son! what means all this?" said she, panting for breath.  "I thought I heard as I came up
the shrieks of a thousand bats tearing from their crannies in the recesses of a cavern; and
it was the outcry only of these poor mutes, whom you were so unmercifully abusing.  In truth
you but ill deserve the admirable provision I have brought you."

"Give it me instantly," exclaimed the Caliph; "I am perishing for hunger!"

"As to that," answered she, "you must have an excellent stomach if it can digest what I have
been preparing."

"Be quick," replied the Caliph; "but, oh, heavens! what horrors! what do you intend?"

"Come, come," returned Carathis, "be not so squeamish, but help me to arrange everything properly,
and you shall see that what you reject with such symptoms of disgust will soon complete your
felicity.  Let us get ready the pile for the sacrifice of to-night, and think not of eating
till that is performed; know you not that all solemn rites are preceded by a rigorous abstinence?"

The Caliph, not daring to object, abandoned himself to grief and the wind that ravaged his
entrails, whilst his mother went forward with the requisite operations.  Phials of serpents'
oil, mummies, and bones were soon set in order on the balustrade of the tower; the pile began
to rise, and in three hours was as many cubits high.  At length darkness approached, and Carathis,
having stripped herself to her inmost garment, clapped her hands in an impulse of ecstasy and
struck light with all her force.  The mutes followed her example; but Vathek, extenuated with
hunger and impatience, was unable to support himself, and fell down in a swoon.  The sparks
had already kindled the dry wood, the venomous oil burst into a thousand blue flames, the mummies
dissolving emitted a thick dun vapour, and the rhinoceros' horns beginning to consume, all
together diffused such a stench, that the Caliph, recovering, started from his trance, and
gazed wildly on the scene in full blaze around him.  The oil gushed forth in a plenitude of
streams; and the negresses, who supplied it without intermission, united their cries to those
of the princess.  At last the fire became so violent, and the flames reflected from the polished
marble so dazzling, that the Caliph, unable to withstand the heat and the blaze, effected his
escape, and clambered up the imperial standard.

In the meantime the inhabitants of Samarah, scared at the light which shone over the city,
arose in haste, ascended their roofs, beheld the tower on fire, and hurried half naked to the
square.  Their love to their sovereign immediately awoke; and, apprehending him in danger of
perishing in his tower, their whole thoughts were occupied with the means of his safety.  Morakanabad
flew from his retirement, wiped away his tears, and cried out for water like the rest.  Bababalouk,
whose olfactory nerves were more familiarised to magical odours, readily conjecturing that
Carathis was engaged in her favourite amusements, strenuously exhorted them not to be alarmed.
Him, however, they treated as an old poltroon, and forbore not to style him a rascally traitor.
The camels and dromedaries were advancing with water, but no one knew by which way to enter
the tower.  Whilst the populace was obstinate in forcing the doors a violent east wind drove
such a volume of flame against them, as at first forced them off, but afterwards re-kindled
their zeal; at the same time the stench of the horns and mummies increasing, most of the crowd
fell backward in a state of suffocation; those that kept their feet mutually wondered at the
cause of the smell, and admonished each other to retire.  Morakanabad, more sick than the rest,
remained in a piteous condition; holding his nose with one hand, he persisted in his efforts
with the other to burst open the doors and obtain admission.  A hundred and forty of the strongest
and most resolute at length accomplished their purpose; having gained the staircase by their
violent exertions, they attained a great height in a quarter of an hour.

Carathis, alarmed at the signs of her mutes, advanced to the staircase, went down a few steps,
and heard several voices calling out from below: "You shall in a moment have water!"  Being
rather alert, considering her age, she presently regained the top of the tower, and bade her
son suspend the sacrifice for some minutes, adding: "We shall soon be enabled to render it
more grateful; certain dolts of your subjects, imagining no doubt that we were on fire, have
been rash enough to break through those doors which had hitherto remained inviolate, for the
sake of bringing up water; they are very kind, you must allow, so soon to forget the wrongs
you have done them, but that is of little moment.  Let us offer them to the Giaour; let them
come up; our mutes, who neither want strength nor experience, will soon despatch them, exhausted
as they are with fatigue."

"Be it so," answered the Caliph, "provided we finish and I dine."

In fact, these good people, out of breath from ascending eleven thousand stairs in such haste,
and chagrined at having spilt by the way the water they had taken, were no sooner arrived at
the top than the blaze of the flames and the fumes of the mummies at once overpowered their
senses.  It was a pity; for they beheld not the agreeable smile with which the mutes and the
negresses adjusted the cord to their necks; these amiable personages rejoiced, however, no
less at the scene; never before had the ceremony of strangling been performed with so much
facility; they all fell without the least resistance or struggle, so that Vathek in the space
of a few moments found himself surrounded by the dead bodies of his faithfullest subjects,
all which were thrown on the top of the pile.

Carathis, whose presence of mind never forsook her, perceiving that she had carcases sufficient
to complete her oblation, commanded the chains to be stretched across the staircase, and the
iron doors barricaded, that no more might come up.

No sooner were these orders obeyed than the tower shook, the dead bodies vanished in the flames,
which at once changed from a swarthy crimson to a bright rose colour; an ambient vapour emitted
the most exquisite fragrance, the marble columns rang with harmonious sounds, and the liquefied
horns diffused a delicious perfume.  Carathis, in transports, anticipated the success of her
enterprise, whilst her mutes and negresses, to whom these sweets had given the colic, retired
to their cells grumbling.

Scarcely were they gone when, instead of the pile, horns, mummies, and ashes, the Caliph both
saw and felt, with a degree of pleasure which he could not express, a table covered with the
most magnificent repast; flagons of wine and vases of exquisite sherbet floating on snow. 
He availed himself without scruple of such an entertainment and had already laid hands on a
lamb stuffed with pistachios, whilst Carathis was privately drawing from a filigree urn a parchment
that seemed to be endless, and which had escaped the notice of her son; totally occupied in
gratifying an importunate appetite he left her to peruse it without interruption, which, having
finished, she said to him in an authoritative tone, "Put an end to your gluttony, and hear
the splendid promises with which you are favoured!"  She then read as follows: "Vathek, my
well-beloved, thou hast surpassed my hopes; my nostrils have been regaled by the savour of
thy mummies, thy horns, and still more by the lives devoted on the pile.  At the full of the
moon cause the bands of thy musicians and thy tymbals to be heard; depart from thy palace surrounded
by all the pageants of majesty; thy most faithful slaves, thy best beloved wives, thy most
magnificent litters, thy richest leaden camels, and set forward on thy way to Istakhar; there
await I thy coming; that is the region of wonders; there shalt thou receive the diadem of Gian
Ben Gian, the talismans of Soliman, and the treasures of the Pre-Adamite Sultans; there shalt
thou be solaced with all kinds of delight.  But beware how thou enterest any dwelling on thy
route, or thou shalt feel the effects of my anger."

The Caliph, who, notwithstanding his habitual luxury, had never before dined with so much satisfaction,
gave full scope to the joy of these golden tidings, and betook himself to drinking anew.  Carathis,
whose antipathy to wine was by no means insuperable, failed not to supply a reason for every
bumper, which they ironically quaffed to the health of Mahomet.  This infernal liquor completed
their impious temerity, and prompted them to utter a profusion of blasphemies; they gave a
loose to their wit at the expense of the ass of Balaam, the dog of the seven sleepers, and
the other animals admitted into the paradise of Mahomet.  In this sprightly humour they descended
the eleven thousand stairs, diverting themselves as they went at the anxious faces they saw
on the square through the oilets of the tower, and at length arrived at the royal apartments
by the subterranean passage.  Bababalouk was parading to and fro, and issuing his mandates
with great pomp to the eunuchs, who were snuffing the lights and painting the eyes of the Circassians.
No sooner did he catch sight of the Caliph and his mother than he exclaimed, "Hah! you have
then, I perceive, escaped from the flames; I was not, however, altogether out of doubt."

"Of what moment is it to us what you thought, or think?" cried Carathis; "go, speed, tell Morakanabad
that we immediately want him; and take care how you stop by the way to make your insipid reflections."

Morakanabad delayed not to obey the summons, and was received by Vathek and his mother with
great solemnity; they told him, with an air of composure and commiseration, that the fire at
the top of the tower was extinguished; but that it had cost the lives of the brave people who
sought to assist them.

"Still more misfortunes," cried Morakanabad, with a sigh.  "Ah, Commander of the Faithful,
our holy Prophet is certainly irritated against us! it behoves you to appease him."

"We will appease him hereafter!" replied the Caliph, with a smile that augured nothing of good.
"You will have leisure sufficient for your supplications during my absence; for this country
is the bane of my health; I am disgusted with the mountain of the Four Fountains, and am resolved
to go and drink of the stream of Rocnabad; I long to refresh myself in the delightful valleys
which it waters.  Do you, with the advice of my mother, govern my dominions, and take care
to supply whatever her experiments may demand; for you well know that our tower abounds in
materials for the advancement of science."

The tower but ill suited Morakanabad's taste.  Immense treasures had been lavished upon it;
and nothing had he ever seen carried thither but female negroes, mutes, and abominable drugs.
Nor did he know well what to think of Carathis, who, like a chameleon, could assume all possible
colours; her cursed eloquence had often driven the poor Mussulman to his last shifts.  He considered,
however, that if she possessed but few good qualities, her son had still fewer; and that the
alternative on the whole would be in her favour.  Consoled, therefore, with this reflection,
he went in good spirits to soothe the populace, and make the proper arrangements for his master's
journey.

Vathek, to conciliate the Spirits of the subterranean palace, resolved that his expedition
should be uncommonly splendid.  With this view he confiscated on all sides the property of
his subjects, whilst his worthy mother stripped the seraglios she visited of the gems they
contained.  She collected all the sempstresses and embroiderers of Samarah and other cities
to the distance of sixty leagues, to prepare pavilions, palanquins, sofas, canopies, and litters
for the train of the monarch. There was not left in Masulipatam a single piece of chintz, and
so much muslin had been bought up to dress out Bababalouk and the other black eunuchs, that
there remained not an ell in the whole Irak of Babylon.

During these preparations Carathis, who never lost sight of her great object, which was to
obtain favour with the Powers of Darkness, made select parties of the fairest and most delicate
ladies of the city; but in the midst of their gaiety she contrived to introduce serpents amongst
them, and to break pots of scorpions under the table; they all bit to a wonder; and Carathis
would have left them to bite, were it not that, to fill up the time, she now and then amused
herself in curing their wounds with an excellent anodyne of her own invention, for this good
princess abhorred being indolent.

Vathek, who was not altogether so active as his mother, devoted his time to the sole gratification
of his senses, in the palaces which were severally dedicated to them; he disgusted himself
no more with the Divan or the Mosque.  One half of Samarah followed his example, whilst the
other lamented the progress of corruption.

In the midst of these transactions the embassy returned which had been sent in pious times
to Mecca.  It consisted of the most reverend Moullahs, who had fulfilled their commission and
brought back one of those precious besoms which are used to sweep the sacred Caaba: a present
truly worthy of the greatest potentate on earth!

The Caliph happened at this instant to be engaged in an apartment by no means adapted to the
reception of embassies, though adorned with a certain magnificence, not only to render it agreeable,
but also because he resorted to it frequently, and stayed a considerable time together. Whilst
occupied in this retreat he heard the voice of Bababalouk calling out from between the door
and the tapestry that hung before it: "Here are the excellent Mahomet Ebn Edris al Shafei,
and the seraphic Al Mouhadethin, who have brought the besom from Mecca, and with tears of joy
intreat they may present it to your majesty in person."

"Let them bring the besom hither; it may be of use," said Vathek, who was still employed, not
having quite racked off his wine.

"How!" said Bababalouk, half aloud and amazed.

"Obey," replied the Caliph, "for it is my sovereign will; go instantly, vanish; for here will
I receive the good folk, who have thus filled thee with joy."

The eunuch departed muttering, and bade the venerable train attend him.  A sacred rapture was
diffused amongst these reverend old men.  Though fatigued with the length of their expedition,
they followed Bababalouk with an alertness almost miraculous, and felt themselves highly flattered,
as they swept along the stately porticoes, that the Caliph would not receive them like ambassadors
in ordinary in his hall of audience.  Soon reaching the interior of the harem (where, through
blinds of Persian, they perceived large soft eyes, dark and blue, that went and came like lightning),
penetrated with respect and wonder, and full of their celestial mission, they advanced in procession
towards the small corridors that appeared to terminate in nothing, but nevertheless led to
the cell where the Caliph expected their coming.

"What! is the Commander of the Faithful sick?" said Ebn Edris al Shafei in a low voice to his
companion.

"I rather think he is in his oratory," answered Al Mouhadethin.

Vathek, who heard the dialogue, cried out: "What imports it you how I am employed? approach
without delay."

They advanced, and Bababalouk almost sunk with confusion, whilst the Caliph, without showing
himself, put forth his hand from behind the tapestry that hung before the door, and demanded
of them the besom. Having prostrated themselves as well as the corridor would permit, and even
in a tolerable semicircle, the venerable Al Shafei, drawing forth the besom from the embroidered
and perfumed scarves in which it had been enveloped, and secured from the profane gaze of vulgar
eyes, arose from his associates, and advanced, with an air of the most awful solemnity, towards
the supposed oratory; but with what astonishment! with what horror was he seized!  Vathek,
bursting out into a villainous laugh, snatched the besom from his trembling hand, and, fixing
upon some cobwebs that hung suspended from the ceiling, gravely brushed away till not a single
one remained.  The old men, overpowered with amazement, were unable to lift their heards from
the ground; for, as Vathek had carelessly left the tapestry between them half drawn, they were
witnesses to the whole transaction; their tears gushed forth on the marble; Al Mouhadethin
swooned through mortification and fatigue; whilst the Caliph, throwing himself backward on
his seat, shouted and clapped his hands without mercy.  At last, addressing himself to Bababalouk:
"My dear black," said he, "go, regale these pious poor souls with my good wine from Shiraz;
and, as they can boast of having seen more of my palace than any one besides, let them also
visit my office courts, and lead them out by the back steps that go to my stables."  Having
said this, he threw the besom in their face, and went to enjoy the laugh with Carathis. Bababalouk
did all in his power to console the ambassadors, but the two most infirm expired on the spot;
the rest were carried to their beds, from whence, being heart-broken with sorrow and shame,
they never arose.

The succeeding night Vathek, attended by his mother, ascended the tower to see if everything
were ready for his journey; for he had great faith in the influence of the stars.  The planets
appeared in their most favourable aspects.  The Caliph, to enjoy so flattering a sight, supped
gaily on the roof, and fancied that he heard during his repast loud shouts of laughter resound
through the sky, in a manner that inspired the fullest assurance.

All was in motion at the palace; lights were kept burning through the whole of the night; the
sound of implements and of artisans finishing their work, the voices of women and their guardians
who sung at their embroidery, all conspired to interrupt the stillness of nature and infinitely
delight the heart of Vathek, who imagined himself going in triumph to sit upon the throne of
Soliman.

The people were not less satisfied than himself; all assisted to accelerate the moment which
should rescue them from the wayward caprices of so extravagant a master.

The day preceding the departure of this infatuated prince was employed by Carathis in repeating
to him the decrees of the mysterious parchment, which she had thoroughly gotten by heart, and
in recommending him not to enter the habitation of any one by the way; "for well thou knowest,"
added she, "how liquorish thy taste is after good dishes and young damsels; let me, therefore,
enjoin thee to be content with thy old cooks, who are the best in the world, and not to forget
that in thy ambulatory seraglio there are three dozen pretty faces, which Bababalouk hath not
yet unveiled.  I myself have a great desire to watch over thy conduct, and visit the subterranean
palace, which no doubt contains whatever can interest persons like us; there is nothing so
pleasing as retiring to caverns; my taste for dead bodies and everything like mummy is decided;
and I am confident thou wilt see the most exquisite of their kind.  Forget me not, then, but
the moment thou art in possession of the talismans which are to open to thee the mineral kingdoms
and the centre of the earth itself, fail not to despatch some trusty genius to take me and
my cabinet, for the oil of the serpents I have pinched to death will be a pretty present to
the Giaour, who cannot but be charmed with such dainties."

Scarcely had Carathis ended this edifying discourse when the sun, setting behind the mountain
of the Four Fountains, gave place to the rising moon; this planet, being that evening at full,
appeared of unusual beauty and magnitude in the eyes of the women, the eunuchs, and the pages,
who were all impatient to set forward.  The city re-echoed with shouts of joy and flourishing
of trumpets; nothing was visible but plumes nodding on pavilions, and aigrets shining in the
mild lustre of the moon; the spacious square resembled an immense parterre, variegated with
the most stately tulips of the East.

Arrayed in the robes which were only worn it the most distinguished ceremonials, and supported
by his Vizir and Bababalouk, the Caliph descended the grand staircase of the tower in the sight
of all his people; he could not forbear pausing at intervals to admire the superb appearance
which everywhere courted his view, whilst the whole multitude, even to the camels with their
sumptuous burdens, knelt down before him. For some time a general stillness prevailed, which
nothing happened to disturb but the shrill screams of some eunuchs in the rear; these vigilant
guards, having remarked certain cages of the ladies swagging somewhat awry, and discovered
that a few adventurous gallants had contrived to get in, soon dislodged the enraptured culprits.
The majesty of so magnificent a spectacle was not, however, violated by incidents like these.
Vathek meanwhile saluted the moon with an idolatrous air, that neither pleased Morakanabad
nor the Doctors of the Law, any more than the vizirs and the grandees of his court, who were
all assembled to enjoy the last view of their sovereign.

At length the clarions and trumpets from the top of the tower announced the prelude of departure;
though the instruments were in unison with each other, yet a singular dissonance was blended
with their sounds; this proceeded from Carathis, who was singing her direful orisons to the
Giaour, whilst the negresses and mutes supplied thorough-base without articulating a word.
The good Mussulmans fancied that they heard the sullen hum of those nocturnal insects which
presage evil, and importuned Vathek to beware how he ventured his sacred person.

On a given signal the great standard of the Califat was displayed, twenty thousand lances shone
around it, and the Caliph, treading loyally on the cloth of gold which had been spread for
his feet, ascended his litter amidst the general awe that possessed his subjects.

The expedition commenced with the utmost order and so entire a silence, that even the locusts
were heard from the thickets on the plain of Catoul.  Gaiety and good-humour prevailing, six
good leagues were past before the dawn; and the morning star was still glittering in the firmament
when the whole of this numerous train had halted on the banks of the Tigris, where they encamped
to repose for the rest of the day.

The three days that followed were spent in the same manner; but on the fourth the heavens looked
angry, lightnings broke forth in frequent flashes, re-echoing peals of thunder succeeded, and
the trembling Circassians clung with all their might to their ugly guardians.  The Caliph himself
was greatly inclined to take shelter in the large town of Gulchissar, the governor of which
came forth to meet him, and tendered every kind of refreshment the place could supply; but,
having examined his tablets, he suffered the rain to soak him almost to the bone, notwithstanding
the importunity of his first favourites.  Though he began to regret the palace of the senses,
yet he lost not sight of his enterprise, and his sanguine expectations confirmed his resolution;
his geographers were ordered to attend him, but the weather proved so terrible that these poor
people exhibited a lamentable appearance; and, as no long journeys had been undertaken since
the time of Haroun al Raschid, their maps of the different countries were in a still worse
plight than themselves; every one was ignorant which way to turn; for Vathek, though well versed
in the course of the heavens, no longer knew his situation on earth; he thundered even louder
than the elements, and muttered forth certain hints of the bow-string, which were not very
soothing to literary ears.  Disgusted at the toilsome weariness of the way, he determined to
cross over the craggy heights and follow the guidance of a peasant, who undertook to bring
him in four days to Rocnabad.  Remonstrances were all to no purpose; his resolution was fixed,
and an invasion commenced on the province of the goats, who sped away in large troops before
them.  It was curious to view on these half calcined rocks camels richly caparisoned, and pavilions
of gold and silk waving on their summits, which till then had never been covered but with sapless
thistles and fern.

The females and eunuchs uttered shrill wailings at the sight of the precipices below them,
and the dreary prospects that opened in the vast gorges of the mountains.  Before they could
reach the ascent of the steepest rock, night overtook them, and a boisterous tempest arose,
which, having rent the awnings of the palanquins and cages, exposed to the raw gusts the poor
ladies within, who had never before felt so piercing a cold.  The dark clouds that overcast
the face of the sky deepened the horrors of this disastrous night, insomuch that nothing could
be heard distinctly but the mewling of pages and lamentations of sultanas.

To increase the general misfortune, the frightful uproar of wild beasts resounded at a distance,
and there were soon perceived, in the forest they were skirting, the glaring of eyes which
could belong only to devils or tigers.  The pioneers, who, as well as they could, had marked
out a track, and a part of the advanced guard were devoured before they had been in the least
apprized of their danger.  The confusion that prevailed was extreme; wolves, tigers, and other
carnivorous animals, invited by the howling of their companions, flocked together from every
quarter; the crashing of bones was heard on all sides, and a fearful rush of wings overhead,
for now vultures also began to be of the party.

The terror at length reached the main body of the troops which surrounded the monarch and his
harem, at the distance of two leagues from the scene. Vathek (voluptuously reposed in his capacious
litter upon cushions of silk, with two little pages beside him of complexions more fair than
the enamel of Franguestan, who were occupied in keeping off flies) was soundly asleep, and
contemplating in his dreams the treasures of Soliman. The shrieks, however, of his wives awoke
him with a start, and, instead of the Giaour with his key of gold, he beheld Bababalouk full
of consternation.

"Sire," exclaimed this good servant of the most potent of monarchs, "misfortune is arrived
at its height; wild beasts, who entertain no more reverence for your sacred person than for
that of a dead ass, have beset your camels and their drivers; thirty of the richest laden are
already become their prey, as well as your confectioners, your cooks, and purveyors; and, unless
our holy Prophet should protect us, we shall have all eaten our last meal."

At the mention of eating the Caliph lost all patience; he began to bellow, and even beat himself
(for there was no seeing in the dark).  The rumour every instant increased, and Bababalouk,
finding no good could be done with his master, stopped both his ears against the hurly-burly
of the harem, and called out aloud: "Come, ladies and brothers! all hands to work! strike light
in a moment! never shall it be said that the Commander of the Faithful served to regale these
infidel brutes."

Though there wanted not in this bevy of beauties a sufficient number of capricious and wayward,
yet on the present occasion they were all compliance; fires were visible in a twinkling in
all their cages; ten thousand torches were lighted at once; the Caliph himself seized a large
one of wax; every person followed his example, and, by kindling ropes' ends dipped in oil and
fastened on poles, an amazing blaze was spread. The rocks were covered with the splendour of
sunshine; the trails of sparks wafted by the wind communicated to the dry fern, of which there
was plenty.  Serpents were observed to crawl forth from their retreats with amazement and hissings,
whilst the horses snorted, stamped the ground, tossed their noses in the air, and plunged about
without mercy.

One of the forests of cedar that bordered their way took fire, and the branches that overhung
the path, extending their flames to the muslins and chintzes which covered the cages of the
ladies, obliged them to jump out, at the peril of their necks.  Vathek, who vented on the occasion
a thousand blasphemies, was himself compelled to touch with his sacred feet the naked earth.

Never had such an incident happened before.  Full of mortification, shame, and despondence,
and not knowing how to walk, the ladies fell into the dirt.  "Must I go on foot?" said one;
"Must I wet my feet?" cried another; "Must I soil my dress?" asked a third; "Execrable Bababalouk!"
exclaimed all; "Outcast of hell! what hadst thou to do with torches? Better were it to be eaten
by tigers than to fall into our present condition! we are for ever undone!  Not a porter is
there in the army, nor a currier of camels, but hath seen some part of our bodies, and, what
is worse, our very faces!"  On saying this the most bashful amongst them hid their foreheads
on the ground, whist such as had more boldness flew at Bababalouk; but he, well apprized of
their humour, and not wanting in shrewdness, betook himself to his heels along with his comrades,
all dropping their torches and striking their tymbals.

It was not less light than in the brightest of the dog-days, and the weather was hot in proportion;
but how degrading was the spectacle, to behold the Caliph bespattered like an ordinary mortal!
As the exercise of his faculties seemed to be suspended, one of his Ethiopian wives (for he
delighted in variety) clasped him in her arms, threw him upon her shoulder like a sack of dates,
and finding that the fire was hemming them in, set off with no small expedition, considering
the weight of her burden.  The other ladies, who had just learnt the use of their feet, followed
her, their guards galloped after, and the camel-drivers brought up the rear as fast as their
charge would permit.

They soon reached the spot where the wild beasts had commenced the carnage, and which they
had too much spirit to leave, notwithstanding the approaching tumult and the luxurious supper
they had made; Bababalouk nevertheless seized on a few of the plumpest, which were unable to
budge from the place, and began to flay them with admirable adroitness.  The cavalcade being
got so far from the conflagration as that the heat felt rather grateful than violent, it was
immediately resolved on to halt.  The tattered chintzes were picked up, the scraps left by
the wolves and tigers interred, and vengeance was taken on some dozens of vultures that were
too much glutted to rise on the wing.  The camels, which had been left unmolested to make sal
ammoniac, being numbered, and the ladies once more enclosed in their cages, the imperial tent
was pitched on the levellest ground they could find.

Vathek, reposing upon a mattress of down, and tolerably recovered from the jolting of the Ethiopian,
who to his feelings seemed the roughest trotting jade he had hitherto mounted, called out for
something to eat. But, alas! those delicate cakes which had been baked in silver ovens for
his royal mouth, those rich manchets, amber comfits, flagons of Schiraz wine, porcelain vases
of snow, and grapes from the banks of the Tigris, were all irremediably lost!  And nothing
had Bababalouk to present in their stead but a roasted wolf, vultures a la daube, aromatic
herbs of the most acrid poignancy, rotten truffles, boiled thistles, and such other wild plants
as most ulcerate the throat and parch up the tongue. Nor was he better provided in the article
of drink, for he could procure nothing to accompany these irritating viands but a few vials
of abominable brandy, which had been secreted by the scullions in their slippers.

Vathek made wry faces at so savage a repast, and Bababalouk answered them with shrugs and contortions;
the Caliph, however, ate with tolerable appetite, and fell into a nap that lasted six hours.
The splendour of the sun reflected from the white cliffs of the mountains, in spite of the
curtains that enclosed him, at length disturbed his repose; he awoke terrified, and stung to
the quick by those wormwood-coloured flies, which emit from their wings a suffocating stench.
The miserable monarch was perplexed how to act, though his wits were not idle in seeking expedients,
whilst Bababalouk lay snoring amidst a swarm of those insects, that busily thronged to pay
court to his nose.  The little pages, famished with hunger, had dropped their fans on the ground,
and exerted their dying voices in bitter reproaches on the Caliph, who now for the first time
heard the language of truth.

Thus stimulated, he renewed his imprecations against the Giaour, and bestowed upon Mahomet
some soothing expressions.  "Where am I?" cried he; "what are these dreadful rocks? these valleys
of darkness? are we arrived at the horrible Kaf? is the Simurgh coming to pluck out my eyes,
as a punishment for undertaking this impious enterprise!"  Having said this, he bellowed like
a calf and turned himself towards an outlet in the side of his pavilion; but, alas! what objects
occurred to his view! on one side a plain of black sand that appeared to be unbounded, and
on the other perpendicular crags, bristled over with those abominable thistles which had so
severely lacerated his tongue.  He fancied, however, that he perceived, amongst the brambles
and briers, some gigantic flowers, but was mistaken; for these were only the dangling palampores
and variegated tatters of his gay retinue.  As there were several clefts in the rock from whence
water seemed to have flowed, Vathek applied his ear, with the hope of catching the sound of
some latent runnel, but could only distinguish the low murmurs of his people, who were repining
at their journey, and complaining for the want of water.

"To what purpose," asked they, "have we been brought hither?  Hath our Caliph another tower
to build? or have the relentless Afrits, whom Carathis so much loves, fixed in this place their
abode?"

At the name of Carathis Vathek recollected the tablets he had received from his mother, who
assured him they were fraught with preternatural qualities, and advised him to consult them
as emergencies might require. Whilst he was engaged in turning them over he heard a shout of
joy and a loud clapping of hands; the curtains of his pavilion were soon drawn back, and he
beheld Bababalouk, followed by a troop of his favourites, conducting two dwarfs, each a cubit
high, who brought between them a large basket of melons, oranges, and pomegranates.  They were
singing in the sweetest tones the words that follow:

"We dwell on the top of these rocks in a cabin of rushes and canes; the eagles envy us our
nest; a small spring supplies us with Abdest, and we daily repeat prayers which the Prophet
approves.  We love you, O Commander of the Faithful! our master, the good Emir Fakreddin, loves
you also; he reveres in your person the vicegerent of Mahomet.  Little as we are, in us he
confides; he knows our hearts to be good as our bodies are contemptible, and hath placed us
here to aid those who are bewildered on these dreary mountains.  Last night, whilst we were
occupied within our cell in reading the holy Koran, a sudden hurricane blew out our lights
and rocked our habitation; for two whole hours a palpable darkness prevailed, but we heard
sounds at a distance which we conjectured to proceed from the bells of a Cafila passing over
the rocks; our ears were soon filled with deplorable shrieks, frightful roarings, and the sound
of tymbals.  In the midst of these melancholy reflections we perceived flames of the deepest
red glow in the horizon, and found ourselves in a few moments covered with flakes of fire;
amazed at so strange an appearance, we took up the volume dictated by the blessed Intelligence,
and, kneeling by the light of the fire that surrounded us, we recited the verse which says:
'Put no trust in anything but the mercy of Heaven; there is no help save in the holy Prophet;
the mountain of Kaf itself may tremble, it is the power of Allah only that cannot be moved.'
After having pronounced these words we felt consolation, and our minds were hushed into a sacred
repose; silence ensued, and our ears clearly distinguished a voice in the air, saying: 'Servants
of my faithful servant! go down to the happy valley of Fakreddin; tell him that an illustrious
opportunity now offers to satiate the thirst of his hospitable heart.  The Commander of true
believers is this day bewildered amongst these mountains, and stands in need of thy aid.' 
We obeyed with joy the angelic mission, and our master, filled with pious zeal, hath culled
with his own hands these melons, oranges, and pomegranates; he is following us with a hundred
dromedaries laden with the purest waters of his fountains, and is coming to kiss the fringe
of your consecrated robe, and implore you to enter his humble habitation, which, placed amidst
these barren wilds, resembles an emerald set in lead."  The dwarfs, having ended their address,
remained still standing, and, with hands crossed upon their bosoms, preserved a respectful silence.

Vathek in the midst of this curious harangue, seized the basket, and long before it was finished
the fruits had dissolved in his mouth; as he continued to eat his piety increased, and in the
same breath which recited his prayers he called for the Koran and sugar.

Such was the state of his mind when the tablets, which were thrown by at the approach of the
dwarfs, again attracted his eye; he took them up, but was ready to drop on the ground when
he beheld, in large red characters, these words inscribed by Carathis, which were indeed enough
to make him tremble:

"Beware of thy old doctors, and their puny messengers of but one cubit high; distrust their
pious frauds, and, instead of eating their melons, impale on a spit the bearers of them.  Shouldst
thou be such a fool as to visit them, the portal of the subterranean palace will be shut in
thy face, and with such force as shall shake thee asunder; thy body shall be spit upon, and
bats will engender in thy belly."

"To what tends this ominous rhapsody?" cries the Caliph.  "And must I then perish in these
deserts with thirst, whilst I may refresh myself in the valley of melons and cucumbers!  Accursed
be the Giaour, with his portal of ebony! he hath made me dance attendance too long already.
Besides, who shall prescribe laws to me?  I forsooth must not enter any one's habitation! 
Be it so; but what one can I enter that is not my own?"

Bababalouk, who lost not a syllable of this soliloquy, applauded it with all his heart, and
the ladies for the first time agreed with him in opinion.

The dwarfs were entertained, caressed, and seated with great ceremony on little cushions of
satin.  The symmetry of their persons was the subject of criticism; not an inch of them was
suffered to pass unexamined; knick- knacks and dainties were offered in profusion, but all
were declined with respectful gravity.  They clambered up the sides of the Caliph's seat, and,
placing themselves each on one of his shoulders, began to whisper prayers in his ears; their
tongues quivered like the leaves of a poplar, and the patience of Vathek was almost exhausted,
when the acclamations of the troops announced the approach of Fakreddin, who was come with
a hundred old grey-beards and as many Korans and dromedaries; they instantly set about their
ablutions, and began to repeat the Bismillah; Vathek, to get rid of these officious monitors,
followed their example, for his hands were burning.

The good Emir, who was punctiliously religious, and likewise a great dealer in compliments,
made an harangue five times more prolix and insipid than his harbingers had already delivered.
The Caliph, unable any longer to refrain, exclaimed--

"For the love of Mahomet, my dear Fakreddin, have done! let us proceed to your valley, and
enjoy the fruits that Heaven hath vouchsafed you."

The hint of proceeding put all into motion; the venerable attendants of the Emir set forward
somewhat slowly, but Vathek, having ordered his little pages in private to goad on the dromedaries,
loud fits of laughter broke forth from the cages, for the unwieldy curvetting of these poor
beasts, and the ridiculous distress of their superannuated riders, afforded the ladies no small
entertainment.

They descended, however, unhurt into the valley, by the large steps which the Emir had cut
in the rock; and already the murmuring of streams and the rustling of leaves began to catch
their attention.  The cavalcade soon entered a path which was skirted by flowering shrubs,
and extended to a vast wood of palm-trees, whose branches overspread a building of hewn stone.
This edifice was crowned with nine domes, and adorned with as many portals of bronze, on which
was engraven the following inscription: "This is the asylum of pilgrims, the refuge of travellers,
and the depository of secrets for all parts of the world."

Nine pages, beautiful as the day, and clothed in robes of Egyptian linen, very long and very
modest, were standing at each door.  They received the whole retinue with an easy and inviting
air.  Four of the most amiable placed the Caliph on a magnificent taktrevan, four others, somewhat
less graceful, took charge of Bababalouk, who capered for joy at the snug little cabin that
fell to his share; the pages that remained waited on the rest of the train.

When everything masculine was gone out of sight the gate of a large enclosure on the right
turned on its harmonious hinges and a young female of a slender form came forth; her light
brown hair floated in the hazy breeze of the twilight; a troop of young maidens, like the Pleiades,
attended her on tip-toe.  They hastened to the pavilions that contained the sultanas, and the
young lady, gracefully bending, said to them:

"Charming Princesses, everything is ready; we have prepared beds for your repose, and strewed
your apartments with jasmine; no insects will keep off slumber from visiting your eyelids,
we will dispel them with a thousand plumes; come then, amiable ladies! refresh your delicate
feet and your ivory limbs in baths of rose water; and, by the light of perfumed lamps your
servants will amuse you with tales."

The sultanas accepted with pleasure these obliging offers, and followed the young lady to the
Emir's harem, where we must for a moment leave them, and return to the Caliph.

Vathek found himself beneath a vast dome, illuminated by a thousand lamps of rock crystal;
as many vases of the same material, filled with excellent sherbet, sparkled on a large table,
where a profusion of viands were spread; amongst others were sweetbreads stewed in milk of
almonds, saffron soups, and lamb a la creme, of all which the Caliph was amazingly fond.  He
took of each as much as he was able, testified his sense of the Emir's friendship by the gaiety
of his heart, and made the dwarfs dance against their will, for these little devotees durst
not refuse the Commander of the Faithful; at last he spread himself on the sofa, and slept
sounder than he had ever before.

Beneath this dome a general silence prevailed, for there was nothing to disturb it but the
jaws of Bababalouk, who had untrussed himself to eat with greater advantage, being anxious
to make amends for his fast in the mountains.  As his spirits were too high to admit of his
sleeping, and not loving to be idle, he proposed with himself to visit the harem, and repair
to his charge of the ladies, to examine if they had been properly lubricated with the balm
of Mecca, if their eyebrows and tresses were in order, and, in a word, to perform all the little
offices they might need. He sought for a long time together, but without being able to find
out the door; he durst not speak aloud, for fear of disturbing the Caliph, and not a soul was
stirring in the precincts of the palace; he almost despaired of effecting his purpose, when
a low whispering just reached his ear; it came from the dwarfs who were returned to their old
occupation, and for the nine hundred and ninety-ninth time in their lives, were reading over
the Koran.  They very politely invited Bababalouk to be of their party, but his head was full
of other concerns. The dwarfs, though scandalised at his dissolute morals, directed him to
the apartments he wanted to find; his way thither lay through a hundred dark corridors, along
which he groped as he went, and at last began to catch from the extremity of a passage the
charming gossiping of the women, which not a little delighted his heart.  "Ah, ha! what, not
yet asleep!" cried he; and, taking long strides as he spoke.  "Did you not suspect me of abjuring
my charge?  I stayed but to finish what my master had left."

Two of the black eunuchs, on hearing a voice so loud, detached a party in haste, sabre in hand,
to discover the cause; but presently was repeated on all sides: "'Tis only Bababalouk! no one
but Bababalouk!"  This circumspect guardian, having gone up to a thin veil of carnation-coloured
silk that hung before the doorway, distinguished, by means of the softened splendour that shone
through it, an oval bath of dark porphyry, surrounded by curtains festooned in large folds;
through the apertures between them, as they were not drawn close, groups of young slaves were
visible, amongst whom Bababalouk perceived his pupils, indulgingly expanding their arms, as
if to embrace the perfumed water and refresh themselves after their fatigues.  The looks of
tender languor, their confidential whispers, and the enchanting smiles with which they were
imparted, the exquisite fragrance of the roses, all combined to inspire a voluptuousness, which
even Bababalouk himself was scarce able to withstand.

He summoned up, however, his usual solemnity, and, in the peremptory tone of authority, commanded
the ladies instantly to leave the bath.  Whilst he was issuing these mandates the young Nouronihar,
daughter of the Emir, who was sprightly as an antelope, and full of wanton gaiety, beckoned
one of her slaves to let down the great swing, which was suspended to the ceiling by cords
of silk, and whilst this was doing, winked to her companions in the bath, who, chagrined to
be forced from so soothing a state of indolence, began to twist it round Bababalouk, and tease
him with a thousand vagaries.

When Nouronihar perceived that he was exhausted with fatigue, she accosted him with an arch
air of respectful concern, and said: "My lord, it is not by any means decent that the chief
eunuch of the Caliph, our Sovereign, should thus continue standing; deign but to recline your
graceful person upon this sofa, which will burst with vexation if it have not the honour to
receive you."

Caught by these flattering accents, Bababalouk gallantly replied: "Delight of the apple of
my eye!  I accept the invitation of thy honeyed lips; and, to say truth, my senses are dazzled
with the radiance that beams from thy charms."

"Repose, then, at your ease," replied the beauty, and placed him on the pretended sofa, which,
quicker than lightning, gave way all at once.  The rest of the women, having aptly conceived
her design, sprang naked from the bath, and plied the swing with such unmerciful jerks, that
it swept through the whole compass of a very lofty dome, and took from the poor victim all
power of respiration; sometimes his feet rased the surface of the water, and at others the
skylight almost flattened his nose; in vain did he pierce the air with the cries of a voice
that resembled the ringing of a cracked basin, for their peals of laughter were still more
predominant.

Nouronihar, in the inebriety of youthful spirits, being used only to eunuchs of ordinary harems,
and having never seen anything so royal and disgusting, was far more diverted than all of the
rest; she began to parody some Persian verses, and sang with an accent most demurely piquant:

   "O gentle white dove, as thou soar'st through the air,
   Vouchsafe one kind glance on the mate of thy love;
   Melodious Philomel, I am thy rose;
   Warble some couplet to ravish my heart!"

The sultanas and their slaves, stimulated by these pleasantries, persevered at the swing with
such unremitted assiduity, that at length the cord which had secured it snapped suddenly asunder,
and Bababalouk fell floundering like a turtle to the bottom of the bath.  This accident occasioned
a universal shout; twelve little doors, till now unobserved, flew open at once, and the ladies
in an instant made their escape, after throwing all the towels on his head, and putting out
the lights that remained.

The deplorable animal, in water to the chin, overwhelmed with darkness, and unable to extricate
himself from the wrap that embarrassed him, was still doomed to hear for his further consolation
the fresh bursts of merriment his disaster occasioned.  He bustled, but in vain, to get from
the bath, for the margin was become so slippery with the oil spilt in breaking the lamps, that
at every effort he slid back with a plunge, which resounded aloud through the hollow of the
dome.  These cursed peals of laughter at every relapse were redoubled; and he, who thought
the place infested rather by devils than women, resolved to cease groping, and abide in the
bath, where he amused himself with soliloquies, interspersed with imprecations, of which his
malicious neighbours reclining on down suffered not an accent to escape.  In this delectable
plight the morning surprised him.  The Caliph, wondering at his absence, had caused him to
be everywhere sought for.  At last he was drawn forth, almost smothered from the wisp of linen,
and wet even to the marrow. Limping and chattering his teeth, he appeared before his master,
who inquired what was the matter, and how he came soused in so strange a pickle.

"And why did you enter this cursed lodge?" answered Bababalouk, gruffly. Select round tomatoes of
equal size; peel and scoop out the seeds from the stem end. Place the tomatoes on the ice till
shortly before serving; then fill with celery that has been chopped fine and mixed with mayonnaise.
Arrange the filled tomatoes on lettuce leaves on a flat dish or plate.

Garnish the dish further by placing the ends of celery and sprigs of parsley
on top of each tomato.

Serve with toasted cheese, biscuits, or salted wafers. Be generous with the filling. Use plenty
of the mayonnaise and celery and fill tomatoes to the top.

SALAD DRESSING.

MRS. R. STUART.

Two eggs (well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar (scant)
one teaspoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon butter (melted).

Pepper and salt to taste, mix thoroughly.

Set
in kettle of boiling water and stir till it thickens, (about four minutes),
when ready to use it add two tablespoons cream.

SALAD SANDWICHES.

MRS. J. LAURIE.

For twenty four slices of bread and butter, take two small tomatoes,
one small lettuce, one bunch cress, two tablespoons salad oil, one
tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and salt.

Shred all the salad finely. Mix well with the dressing and put a little
on half the bread and butter.

Cover with the other half, press together and trim neatly.

SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL.

MRS. GILMOUR.

The yolks of two egg boiled half an hour, one half egg spoon of mustard,
one dessert spoon of sugar, pinch of salt, a little pepper.

One cup of sour
or sweet cream, one dessert spoon of vinegar.

SALAD DRESSING FOR TOMATOES.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT.

Half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of vinegar, one
tablespoon of salt, two tablespoons of made mustard, a dash of sugar
and cayenne, and four eggs.

Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers.

Garnish dish with either salad or parsley.

METHOD: Scald the milk and melt the butter with it, pour this on the
eggs well beaten, add the salt and then the vinegar, this last slowly,
and stir all the time. Then cook in a pot in hot water, until as thick
as custard, when cold add the mustard.--Prepared mustard is made
as follows: two tablespoons mustard, one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon
salt, enough boiling water to mix.

Half this quantity is enough for ordinary use. The above recipe is also
good for chicken. Put the eggs in boiling water.

PRESERVING EGGS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

(Which keeps them from June to June.)

Half a gallon of fresh lime
to five gallons of water added by degrees, two and one half gallons
the first day, the rest next, then add one half gallon coarse salt,
stir two or three times a day for three days, after this drop in four
eggs gently.

To test the strength of the lime-water drop in an egg that you know
to be fresh, and if it floats the lime is too strong, add another
gallon or more of water until you find the egg dropping to the bottom.

CURÉE EGGS.

MISS MITCHELL.

Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and cut them in half; have drawn
butter not too thick, flavor with curée powder.

Place your eggs on a side dish, pour your curée round and finish with parsley: makes a pretty lunch
dish.

POACHED EGGS.

Have
nicely cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy paste. After poaching
your eggs, put them on the toast and sprinkle finely chopped parsley
over them.

Garnish the dish with parsley.

ANCHOVY EGGS.

MADAME J. T.

Boil three eggs hard, turn in the water for the first two minutes. Let
boil for one hour; cut in two, remove the yolks and leave the whites
in cold water not to discolor. Pound three anchovies in a mortar with
one tablespoon butter, small pinch of pepper, one shake cayenne,
one half teaspoon lemon juice and the yolks of the eggs.

When pounded smooth put back into the eggs.

Sardines can be used instead of the anchovies.

STUFFED EGGS.

MRS. W. CLINT.

Three eggs, one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of parsley, two tablespoons
minced ham.

Boil the eggs for ten minutes; take off the shells, cut lengthwise, take out the yolks, mash them in a
basin, add the butter melted, the minced ham and the parsley. Put the mixture into the whites of the eggs.
Put the two halves together. Serve on shallow dish with the following white
sauce: one tablespoon each of butter, flour, and salt, one cup milk,
one saltspoon pepper. Melt the butter add the flour, then the milk (gradually)
and pepper and salt.

BAKED OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four eggs, add hot milk,
and a tablespoonful melted butter, wet three teaspoonfuls flour in
a little cold milk add the beaten whites and beat all, salt and pepper
to taste.

Bake twenty minutes.

CHEESE OMELET.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Three eggs, well beaten, grated cheese the size of an egg, salt, three tablespoons
of fresh cream.

OMELET.

MISS M'GEE.

Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful flour, parsley, pepper
and salt.

Beat the whites and yolks separately, add the milk, pepper, salt,
and chopped parsley and the flour dissolved in a little milk, then
add the whites, put in the frying pan, leave on top of the stove for
three minutes and put in the oven for five minutes.

OMELETTE.

MISS MAUD THOMSON.

The yolks of four beaten eggs, four tablespoons of milk, a pinch of
salt: beat the whites of the four eggs as stiff as possible, add to
the above, turn into a frying pan, until the mixture sets and then
put in the oven until a golden brown.

CHEESE DISHES.

CHEESE STRAWS.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

Mix one cupful of any good cheese grated with one cupful of flour, one
half saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper and butter the size
of an egg. Add enough cold water to enable you to roll thin.

Cut in strips and bake five or to ten minutes in a quick oven.

CHEESE SCALLOP.

MISS FRASER.

Soak one cup of dried bread crumbs in fresh milk. Into this beat the yolks of three
eggs, add one teaspoon of butter, and half a pound of grated cheese.
Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs, and bake a delicate brown.
Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put on top and
return to the oven for a few minutes.

THE CHAFING DISH.

A Relish and a Savory.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS GRACE M'MILLAN.

Allow for each person one egg, one tablespoonful of grated cheese,
one half teaspoonful of butter, one saltspoon of salt, and a few grains
of cayenne. Cook like custard until smooth. Spread on toast and serve
at once.

WELSH RAREBIT.

MISS BEEMER.

Select richest and best American cheese, (Canadian will do), the milder
the better, as melting brings out strength.

To make five rarebits take one pound cheese grate and put in the saucepan;
add ale (old is best) enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say
about a wine glassful to each rarebit.

Place over the fire, stir until it is melted.

Have ready a slice of toast for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put a slice
on each plate, and pour cheese enough over each piece to cover it. Serve
at once.

GOLDEN BUCK

A "Golden Buck" is merely the addition of a poached egg which is put
carefully on top of rarebit.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs (hard boiled), one
tablespoon flour, two tablespoons of Sherry wine, two tablespoons of
butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste.

Break the lobster meat into moderately small pieces, mash the yolks
of the eggs with a silver spoon and gradually add half the cream.

Place the butter in a granite ware saucepan, add the flour, let it
cook slowly for one minute and then pour in the balance of the cream
and stir until the liquid thickens.

Add the first mixture and then the lobster meat and the whites of the eggs sliced, season with cayenne pepper, and
salt, add the wine and serve at once.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS. HARRY LAURIE.

Two tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth,
add one cup of cream, let it heat through, then add one can of lobster.

Pepper and salt to taste and one half cup of Sherry or Port wine,
if desired; serve at once on squares of toast.

Canned chicken or salmon can be done the same way.

OYSTER COCKTAIL.

MISS RITCHIE.

One dessertspoonful tomato sauce, one shake of tabasco, a sprinkle of horse
radish, about half a dozen oysters, and the same on top.

Serve in small tumblers on a plate with pounded ice around them and
with oyster biscuits.

CRUSTINE.

MRS. A. COOK.

Boil the liver of two chickens, (or turkey will do), pound them to a paste
with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of anchovy and
a little cayenne. Serve on hot toast. Small anchovies whole, laid
on top are an improvement.

PIES.

"Who dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie."--LONGFELLOW.

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE.

MR. JOSEPH FLEIG.

(Baker,
Grenoble Hotel, N. Y.)

Place on a deep pie plate a thin layer of pie crust, put a good rim
on the side and put into this one half cup of dried cocoanut; fill
up with a custard made as follows: three eggs, three ounces of sugar
beaten together with flavoring of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg, little
salt and add one pint of milk.

The custard must be three quarters of an inch thick.

LEMON PIE FILLING.

MRS. JAMES LAURIE.

Mix together two cups of white sugar, yolks of three eggs, juice of
two lemons, grated rind of half a lemon; put it on the stove to boil
and add at once one tea-cup boiling water, stir smooth, then add two
tablespoons of corn starch, mixed in a little cold water, and one
tablespoon of butter, boil until it custards.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN.

Grate one lemon, put this down to boil with two-thirds of a cup of water for
ten minutes, strain through fine sieve, then add one cup sugar, the
juice of a lemon and butter half the size of an egg, let boil a few
minutes.

Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn-starch and yolk of one egg in half cup
milk stir in the mixture letting it boil until thick.

Beat whites of two eggs into stiff froth for frosting.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. STRANG.

Take two lemons, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight tablespoonfuls
white sugar; squeeze the juice of the lemons and grate the rind of one, stir
together the yolks of three eggs and white of one with the sugar,
butter, juice and rind, then one (coffee) cup of sweet cream or milk,
beat all for a minute or two; have ready a plate lined with paste,
into which pour the mixture which will be sufficient for two pies
of the ordinary size.

Bake till the pastry is done. Meanwhile beat the remaining whites
to a stiff froth and stir in four spoonfuls of white sugar. Take the
pies from the oven and spread over equal parts upon each and return
them quickly to the oven and bake a delicate brown.

Take care that the oven be not too hot, or they will brown too quickly
and cause the pie to fall when taken out.

PASTRY.

Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking powder,
one salt spoon salt, enough water to make a very soft paste.

MOCK
CHERRY PIE.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

One cup cranberries cut up, one half cup of raisins chopped, one half cup
of cold water, one teaspoonful vanilla, one tablespoonful corn-starch, two-thirds
cup sugar, a little salt. This makes one pie.

MINCE MEAT.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

One pound of suet, one pound of fresh tongue, one pound apples, one
pound sugar, one pound raisins, one pound currants, two nutmegs, a
large teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto of cloves and salt, one half pound
of candied peel.

PIE PLANT PIE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One cup sugar, well beaten with yolks of two eggs; add one pint of
pie plant, bake with one crust, then spread beaten whites, with tablespoon
sugar over top; return to oven a few moments.

RAISIN PIE.

One cup chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples, four tablespoons
vinegar, one tablespoon cornstarch, one cup of boiling water, one
cup sugar, pinch of salt, mix together, bake with two crusts.

SOUR CREAM PIE.

One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one egg, one half cup sugar,
scant tea-spoon of flour, one half cup raisins; beat cream, sugar,
and flour together, lay the raisins round on the top; bake with two
crusts.

PUMPKIN PIE.

MISS BEEMER.

PASTE.

PUDDINGS.

"The proof of the pudding lies in the eating."

ALMOND
PUDDING

MRS. STOCKING.

One pint
of milk, two eggs, two heaping tablespoons of maple sugar, one heaping tablespoon
of cornstarch, flavor with almond; cook milk, sugar, and cornstarch in
double boiler, adding yolks of eggs when boiling; pour into pudding
dish, cover with whites of the eggs, and brown in oven, to be served
cold.

APPLE BATTER PUDDING.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Stew the apples in a pie dish, when soft place the following batter
on top: one egg, one tablespoon each of sugar and butter, two tablespoonfuls
each of milk and flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, bake forty
five minutes in a slow oven, serve with cream.

BANANA PUDDING.

MISS J. P. M'GIE.

Two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch wet with cold water, one cup of white
sugar and one third of a cup of butter.

Stir together in a dish, pour on boiling water to make a thick custard;
stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs, bring to a boil.

Slice thin a few ripe bananas, pour the custard over them. Put whipped
cream on top or if not cream the whites of the three eggs well beaten
with sugar. To be eaten cold.

BREAD PUDDING.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

Sliced
bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer of bread, one layer of fruit
with sugar to taste and small lumps of butter. Continue until bowl
is full, put a plate on top and steam for at least two hours, more
will do no harm. Turn out a few minutes before wanted to let the juice
penetrate the bread that was uppermost.

COTTAGE PUDDING.

MRS. W.
W. HENRY.

After rubbing together a cupful of sugar and a tablespoon
of butter, add two eggs, and after beating the mixture until light,
add a cupful of milk; mix well in a sieve a pint of sifted flour and
three teaspoons of baking powder, rub through the sieve into the mixture
already made, beat quickly and pour the batter into one large pudding
dish or two small ones. Sprinkle with sugar, bake in a moderate oven
for forty minutes or thirty if there be two. Serve hot with lemon
sauce or any sweet sauce.

LEMON SAUCE.--Beat two eggs very light,
and add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of melted butter, one small
tablespoon of cornstarch, beat all together, then add one cup of boiling
water, cook five minutes, boiling all the while. Cook a little longer
if set in a basin of hot water, take from the fire, and add juice
of lemon.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

One quart of milk scalded, two eggs
well beaten, add gradually one cup sugar. With the eggs and sugar
mix two thirds cup of cornstarch, and three heaping tablespoons grated
chocolate dissolved over hot water, stir into the milk until a soft
custard, add one teaspoon of vanilla, serve with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE
PUDDING.

MRS. W. J. FRASER.

One quart of milk, one pint of bread
crumbs, one tea cup of sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of
chocolate, one half teaspoonful essence of vanilla. Let the milk come
to a boil, scald the bread crumbs, when almost cool, beat the yolks
of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate, to the bread and milk. Bake
one half hour, slow oven. When cool, beat the whites of three eggs
and put meringues.

CARAMEL PUDDING.

MRS. RATTRAY.

Take one coffee
cup full of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan over a slow fire and
burn it, then pour it into one and a half pints of milk in a saucepan
and place the latter on the fire to come to a boil, but do not stir
it in case the milk should crack. Blend three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch
with a little cold milk, and when the milk and sugar boil stir the
starch in. Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped cream.

CARAMEL
PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. WELCH.

One pint of milk, one pound of brown
sugar, one coffee cup of chopped walnuts, two heaping tablespoons
of cornstarch, pinch of salt. Put the milk in a double boiler, when
boiling put in cornstarch dissolved in a little cold milk; let it
cook a few minutes, put in the sugar which has been previously burnt
a little, then add the nuts, stir a few minutes, flavor with vanilla,
put into a mould, and eat with whipped cream.

COCOANUT SPONGE.

MISS
LAMPSON.

Two cups of stale sponge cake crumbs, two cups of milk,
one cup of grated cocoanut, yolks of two eggs and whites of four,
one cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful of rose water, a little
nutmeg. Scald the milk and beat into this the cake crumbs. When nearly
cold add the eggs, sugar, rose water and lastly the cocoanut. Bake
three quarters of an hour in a buttered pudding dish. Eat cold, with
white sugar sifted over it.

DUTCH APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE.

MRS.
STOCKING.

FRIED CREAM.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Everyone should
try this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft cream could
be enveloped in the crust while it is an exceedingly good dish for
a dinner course or for lunch or tea. When the pudding is hard, it
can be rolled in the egg and bread crumbs. The moment the egg touches
the hot lard it hardens and secures the pudding which softens to a
creamy substance very delicious. Ingredients, one pint of milk, five
ounces of sugar (little more than half a cupful,) butter the size
of a hickory nut, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn
starch, and one tablespoonful of flour, (a generous half cupful altogether),
stick of cinnamon one inch long, one half teaspoonful of vanilla.
Put the cinnamon into the milk and when it is just about to boil,
stir in the sugar, cornstarch and flour, the two latter rubbed smooth
with two or three tablespoons of extra cold milk: stir it over the
fire for fully two minutes, to cook well the starch and flour; take
it from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and return
it a few minutes to set them; now again taking it from the fire remove
the cinnamon, stir in the butter and vanilla and pour it on a buttered
platter until one third of an inch high. When cold and stiff cut the
pudding into parallelograms, about three inches long and two inches
wide: roll them carefully, first in sifted cracker crumbs then in
eggs (slightly beaten and sweetened) then again in cracker-crumbs.
Dip these into boiling hot lard (a wire basket should be used if convenient)
and when of fine color, take them out and place them in the oven for
four or five minutes to better soften the pudding. Sprinkle over pulverized
sugar and serve immediately.

FEATHER PUDDING.

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

One
tablespoon butter, one cup white sugar, two eggs, a little salt, one
cup sweet milk, two tablespoons baking powder three cups of flour,
one and one half teaspoons flavoring. Steam one hour. Eat with sauce.

FIG
PUDDING.

MRS. THOM.

One cup suet, one half pound figs cut fine,
two cups bread-crumbs, one cup flour, one half cup brown sugar, one
egg, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, steam three
hours.

GELATINE PUDDING (Pink.)

MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Put one ounce
pink gelatine and one quart of milk in a bowl on the stove where it
will not get hot; when dissolved add yolks of four eggs, beaten with
four tablespoons sugar, stir well, let it just come to the boil, then
add the whites well beaten, with four tablespoons of sugar and a dessert
spoon vanilla. Turn into a mould and let it cool, then turn out and
garnish with whipped cream. This is a very pretty dish.

GRAHAM PUDDING.
 Nouronihar, compressing her hands upon her bosom, hesitated for some moments
to advance; the solitude of her situation was new, the silence of the night awful, and every
object inspired sensations which till then she never had felt: the affright of Gulchenrouz
recurred to her mind, and she a thousand times turned to go back, but this luminous appearance
was always before her; urged on by an irresistible impulse, she continued to approach it, in
defiance of every obstacle that opposed her progress.

At length she arrived at the opening of the glen; but, instead of coming up to the light, she
found herself surrounded by darkness, excepting that at a considerable distance a faint spark
glimmered by fits.  She stopped a second time; the sound of water-falls mingling their murmurs,
the hollow rustlings amongst the palm-branches, and the funereal screams of the birds from
their rifted trunks, all conspired to fill her with terror; she imagined every moment that
she trod on some venomous reptile; all the stories of malignant Dives and dismal Gouls thronged
into her memory; but her curiosity was, notwithstanding, more predominant than her fears; she
therefore firmly entered a winding track that led towards the spark, but, being a stranger
to the path, she had not gone far till she began to repent of her rashness.

"Alas!" said she, "that I were but in those secure and illuminated apartments where my evenings
glided on with Gulchenrouz!  Dear child! how would thy heart flutter with terror wert thou
wandering in these wild solitudes like me!"  At the close of this apostrophe she regained her
road, and, coming to steps hewn out in the rock, ascended them undismayed; the light, which
was now gradually enlarging, appeared above her on the summit of the mountain; at length she
distinguished a plaintive and melodious union of voices, proceeding from a sort of cavern,
that resembled the dirges which are sung over tombs; a sound, likewise, like that which arises
from the filling of baths, at the same time struck her ear; she continued ascending, and discovered
large wax torches in full blaze planted here and there in the fissures of the rock; this preparation
filled her with fear, whilst the subtle and potent odour which the torches exhaled caused her
to sink almost lifeless at the entrance of the grot.

Casting her eyes within in this kind of trance, she beheld a large cistern of gold filled with
a water, whose vapour distilled on her face a dew of the essence of roses; a soft symphony
resounded through the grot; on the sides of the cistern she noticed appendages of royalty,
diadems, and feathers of the heron, all sparkling with carbuncles; whilst her attention was
fixed on this display of magnificence, the music ceased, and a voice instantly demanded:

"For what monarch were these torches kindled, this bath prepared, and these habiliments, which
belong, not only to the sovereigns of the earth, but even to the Talismanic Powers?"

To which a second voice answered: "They are for the charming daughter of the Emir Fakreddin."

"What," replied the first, "for that trifler, who consumes her time with a giddy child, immersed
in softness, and who at best can make but an enervated husband?"

"And can she," rejoined the other voice, "be amused with such empty trifles, whilst the Caliph,
the sovereign of the world, he who is destined to enjoy the treasures of the pre-adamite Sultans,
a prince six feet high, and whose eyes pervade the inmost soul of a female, is inflamed with
the love of her.  No! she will be wise enough to answer that passion alone that can aggrandise
her glory; no doubt she will, and despise the puppet of her fancy.  Then all the riches this
place contains, as well as the carbuncle of Giamschid, shall be hers."

"You judge right," returned the first voice, "and I haste to Istakar to prepare the palace
of subterranean fire for the reception of the bridal pair."

The voices ceased, the torches were extinguished, the most entire darkness succeeded, and Nouronihar,
recovering with a start, found herself reclined on a sofa in the harem of her father.  She
clapped her hands, and immediately came together Gulchenrouz and her women, who, in despair
at having lost her, had despatched eunuchs to seek her in every direction; Shaban appeared
with the rest, and began to reprimand her with an air of consequence:

"Little impertinent," said he, "whence got you false keys? or are you beloved of some Genius
that hath given you a pick-lock?  I will try the extent of your power; come, to your chamber!
through the two skylights; and expect not the company of Gulchenrouz; be expeditious!  I will
shut you up in the double tower."

At these menaces Nouronihar indignantly raised her head, opened on Shaban her black eyes, which,
since the important dialogue of the enchanted grot, were considerably enlarged, and said: "Go,
speak thus to slaves, but learn to reverence her who is born to give laws, and subject all
to her power."

She was proceeding in the same style, but was interrupted by a sudden exclamation of "The Caliph!
The Caliph!"  The curtains at once were thrown open, and the slaves prostrate in double rows,
whilst poor little Gulchenrouz hid himself beneath the elevation of a sofa.  At first appeared
a file of black eunuchs, trailing after them long trains of muslin embroidered with gold, and
holding in their hands censers, which dispensed as they passed the grateful perfume of the
wood of aloes; next marched Bababalouk with a solemn strut, and tossing his head as not over-
pleased at the visit; Vathek came close after, superbly robed; his gait was unembarrassed and
noble, and his presence would have engaged admiration, though he had not been the sovereign
of the world; he approached Nouronihar with a throbbing heart, and seemed enraptured at the
full effulgence of her radiant eyes, of which he had before caught but a few glimpses; but
she instantly depressed them, and her confusion augmented her beauty.

Bababalouk, who was a thorough adept in coincidences of this nature, and knew that the worst
game should be played with the best face, immediately made a signal for all to retire; and
no sooner did he perceive beneath the sofa the little one's feet, than he drew him forth without
ceremony, set him upon his shoulders, and lavished on him as he went off a thousand odious
caresses; Gulchenrouz cried out, and resisted till his cheeks became the colour of the blossom
of the pomegranate, and the tears that started into his eyes shot forth a gleam of indignation;
he cast a significant glance at Nouronihar, which the Caliph noticing, asked: "Is that then
your Gulchenrouz?"

"Sovereign of the world?" answered she, "spare my cousin, whose innocence and gentleness deserve
not your anger."

"Take comfort," said Vathek, with a smile; "he is in good hands. Bababalouk is fond of children,
and never goes without sweetmeats and comfits."

The daughter of Fakreddin was abashed, and suffered Gulchenrouz to be borne away without adding
a word.  The tumult of her bosom betrayed her confusion; and Vathek, becoming still more impassioned,
gave a loose to his frenzy, which had only not subdued the last faint strugglings of reluctance,
when the Emir, suddenly bursting in, threw his face upon the ground at the feet of the Caliph,
and said:

"Commander of the Faithful! abase not yourself to the meanness of your slave."

"No, Emir," replied Vathek; "I raise her to an equality with myself; I declare her my wife,
and the glory of your race shall extend from one generation to another."

"Alas! my lord," said Fakreddin, as he plucked off the honours of his beard, "cut short the
days of your faithful servant, rather than force him to depart from his word.  Nouronihar,
as her hands evince, is solemnly promised to Gulchenrouz, the son of my brother Ali Hassan;
they are united also in heart, their faith is mutually plighted, and affiances so sacred cannot
be broken."

"What then!" replied the Caliph, bluntly, "would you surrender this divine beauty to a husband
more womanish than herself? and can you imagine that I will suffer her charms to decay in hands
so inefficient and nerveless?  No! she is destined to live out her life within my embraces:
such is my will; retire, and disturb not the time I devote to the homage of her charms."

The irritated Emir drew forth his sabre, presented it to Vathek, and stretching out his neck,
said in a firm tone of voice: "Strike your unhappy host, my lord! he has lived long enough,
since he hath seen the Prophet's Vicegerent violate the rites of hospitality."

At his uttering these words Nouronihar, unable to support any longer the conflict of her passions,
sank down in a swoon.  Vathek, both terrified for her life and furious at an opposition to
his will, bade Fakreddin assist his daughter, and withdrew, darting his terrible look at the
unfortunate Emir, who suddenly fell backward, bathed in a sweat cold as the damp of death.

Gulchenrouz, who had escaped from the hands of Bababalouk, and was that instant returned, called
out for help as loudly as he could, not having strength to afford it himself.  Pale and panting,
the poor child attempted to revive Nouronihar by caresses; and it happened that the thrilling
warmth of his lips restored her to life.  Fakreddin beginning also to recover from the look
of the Caliph, with difficulty tottered to a seat, and after warily casting round his eye to
see if this dangerous prince was gone, sent for Shaban and Sutlememe, and said to them apart:

"My friends! violent evils require as violent remedies; the Caliph has brought desolation and
horror into my family, and how shall we resist his power? another of his looks will send me
to my grave.  Fetch then that narcotic powder which the Dervish brought me from Aracan; a dose
of it, the effect of which will continue three days, must be administered to each of these
children; the Caliph will believe them to be dead, for they will have all the appearance of
death; we shall go as if to inter them in the cave of Meimoune, at the entrance of the great
desert of sand, and near the cabin of my dwarfs.  When all the spectators shall be withdrawn,
you, Shaban, and four select eunuchs, shall convey them to the lake, where provisions shall
be ready to support them a month; for one day allotted to the surprise this event will occasion,
five to the tears, a fortnight to reflection, and the rest to prepare for renewing his progress,
will, according to my calculation, fill up the whole time that Vathek will tarry, and I shall
then be freed from his intrusion."

"Your plan," said Sutlememe, "is a good one, if it can but be effected.  I have remarked that
Nouronihar is well able to support the glances of the Caliph, and that he is far from being
sparing of them to her; be assured, therefore, notwithstanding her fondness for Gulchenrouz,
she will never remain quiet while she knows him to be here, unless we can persuade her that
both herself and Gulchenrouz are really dead, and that they were conveyed to those rocks for
a limited season to expiate the little faults of which their love was the cause; we will add
that we killed ourselves in despair, and that your dwarfs, whom they never yet saw, will preach
to them delectable sermons.  I will engage that everything shall succeed to the bent of your
wishes."

"Be it so!" said Fakreddin.  "I approve your proposal; let us lose not a moment to give it effect."

They forthwith hastened to seek for the powder, which, being mixed in a sherbet, was immediately
drank by Gulchenrouz and Nouronihar.  Within the space of an hour both were seized with violent
palpitations, and a general numbness gradually ensued; they arose from the floor, where they
had remained ever since the Caliph's departure, and, ascending to the sofa, reclined themselves
at full length upon it, clasped in each other's embraces.

"Cherish me, my dear Nouronihar!" said Gulchenrouz; "put thy hand upon my heart, for it feels
as if it were frozen.  Alas! thou art as cold as myself!  Hath the Caliph murdered us both
with his terrible look?"

"I am dying!" cried she in a faltering voice; "press me closer; I am ready to expire!"

"Let us die then together," answered the little Gulchenrouz, whilst his breast laboured with
a convulsive sigh; "let me at least breathe forth my soul on thy lips!"  They spoke no more,
and became as dead.

Immediately the most piercing cries were heard through the harem, whilst Shaban and Sutlememe
personated with great adroitness the parts of persons in despair.  The Emir, who was sufficiently
mortified to be forced into such untoward expedients, and had now for the first time made a
trial of his powder, was under no necessity of counterfeiting grief. The slaves, who had flocked
together from all quarters, stood motionless at the spectacle before them; all lights were
extinguished save two lamps, which shed a wan glimmering over the faces of these lovely flowers,
that seemed to be faded in the spring-time of life; funeral vestments were prepared, their
bodies were washed with rose-water, their beautiful tresses were braided and incensed, and
they were wrapped in simars whiter than alabaster.  At the moment that their attendants were
placing two wreaths of their favourite jasmines on their brows, the Caliph, who had just heard
of the tragical catastrophe, arrived; he looked not less pale and haggard than the Gouls, that
wander at night among graves; forgetful of himself and every one else, he broke through the
midst of the slaves, fell prostrate at the foot of the sofa, beat his bosom, called himself
"atrocious murderer!" and invoked upon his head a thousand imprecations; with a trembling hand
he raised the veil that covered the countenance of Nouronihar, and, uttering a loud shriek,
fell lifeless on the floor.  The chief of the eunuchs dragged him off with horrible grimaces,
and repeated as he went: "Ay, I foresaw she would play you some ungracious turn!"

No sooner was the Caliph gone than the Emir commanded biers to be brought, and forbad that
any one should enter the harem.  Every window was fastened, all instruments of music were broken,
and the Imams began to recite their prayers; towards the close of this melancholy day Vathek
sobbed in silence, for they had been forced to compose with anodynes his convulsions of rage
and desperation.

At the dawn of the succeeding morning the wide folding doors of the palace were set open, and
the funeral procession moved forward for the mountain.  The wailful cries of "La Ilah illa
Allah!" reached to the Caliph, who was eager to cicatrise himself and attend the ceremonial;
nor could he have been dissuaded, had not his excessive weakness disabled him from walking;
at the few first steps he fell on the ground, and his people were obliged to lay him on a bed,
where he remained many days in such a state of insensibility, as excited compassion in the
Emir himself.

When the procession was arrived at the grot of Meimoune, Shaban and Sutlememe dismissed the
whole of the train, excepting the four confidential eunuchs who were appointed to remain. 
After resting some moments near the biers, which had been left in the open air, they caused
them to be carried to the brink of a small lake, whose banks were overgrown with a hoary moss;
this was the great resort of herons and storks, which preyed continually on little blue fishes.
The dwarfs, instructed by the Emir, soon repaired thither, and, with the help of the eunuchs,
began to construct cabins of rushes and reeds, a work in which they had admirable skill; a
magazine also was contrived for provisions, with a small oratory for themselves, and a pyramid
of wood neatly piled, to furnish the necessary fuel, for the air was bleak in the hollows of
the mountains.

At evening two fires were kindled on the brink of the lake, and the two lovely bodies, taken
from their biers, were carefully deposited upon a bed of dried leaves within the same cabin.
The dwarfs began to recite the Koran with their clear shrill voices, and Shaban and Sutlememe
stood at some distance, anxiously waiting the effects of the powder.  At length Nouronihar
and Gulchenrouz faintly stretched out their arms, and gradually opening their eyes, began to
survey with looks of increasing amazement every object around them; they even attempted to
rise, but for want of strength fell back again; Sutlememe on this administered a cordial, which
the Emir had taken care to provide.

Gulchenrouz, thoroughly aroused, sneezed out aloud, and raising himself with an effort that
expressed his surprise, left the cabin, and inhaled the fresh air with the greatest avidity.

"Yes," said he, "I breathe again! again do I exist!  I hear sounds!  I behold a firmament spangled
over with stars!"

Nouronihar, catching these beloved accents, extricated herself from the leaves, and ran to
clasp Gulchenrouz to her bosom.  The first objects she remarked were their long simars, their
garlands of flowers, and their naked feet; she hid her face in her hands to reflect; the vision
of the enchanted bath, the despair of her father, and, more vividly than both, the majestic
figure of Vathek recurred to her memory; she recollected also that herself and Gulchenrouz
had been sick and dying; but all these images bewildered her mind.  Not knowing where she was,
she turned her eyes on all sides, as if to recognise the surrounding scene; this singular lake,
those flames reflected from its glassy surface, the pale hues of its banks, the romantic cabins,
the bulrushes that sadly waved their drooping heads, the storks whose melancholy cries blended
with the shrill voices of the dwarfs, everything conspired to persuade them that the Angel
of Death had opened the portal of some other world.

Gulchenrouz on his part, lost in wonder, clung to the neck of his cousin: he believed himself
in the region of phantoms, and was terrified at the silence she preserved; at length addressing
her:

"Speak," said he, "where are we? do you not see those spectres that are stirring the burning
coals? are they Monker and Nakir, come to throw us into them? does the fatal bridge cross this
lake, whose solemn stillness perhaps conceals from us an abyss, in which for whole ages we
shall be doomed incessantly to sink?"

"No, my children!" said Sutlememe, going towards them, "take comfort! the exterminating Angel,
who conducted our souls hither after yours, hath assured us that the chastisement of your indolent
and voluptuous life shall be restricted to a certain series of years, which you must pass in
this dreary abode, where the sun is scarcely visible, and where the soil yields neither fruits
nor flowers.  These," continued she, pointing to the dwarfs, "will provide for our wants, for
souls so mundane as ours retain too strong a tincture of their earthly extraction; instead
of meats your food will be nothing but rice, and your bread shall be moistened in the fogs
that brood over the surface of the lake."

At this desolating prospect the poor children burst into tears, and prostrated themselves before
the dwarfs, who perfectly supported their characters, and delivered an excellent discourse
of a customary length upon the sacred camel, which after a thousand years was to convey them
to the paradise of the faithful.

The sermon being ended, and ablutions performed, they praised Allah and the Prophet, supped
very indifferently, and retired to their withered leaves.  Nouronihar and her little cousin
consoled themselves on finding that, though dead, they yet lay in one cabin.  Having slept
well before, the remainder of the night was spent in conversation on what had befallen them,
and both, from a dread of apparitions, betook themselves for protection to one another's arms.

In the morning, which was lowering and rainy, the dwarfs mounted high poles like minarets,
and called them to prayers; the whole congregation, which consisted of Sutlememe, Shaban, the
four eunuchs, and some storks, were already assembled.  The two children came forth from their
cabin with a slow and dejected pace; as their minds were in a tender and melancholy mood, their
devotions were performed with fervour.  No sooner were they finished, than Gulchenrouz demanded
of Sutlememe and the rest, "how they happened to die so opportunely for his cousin and himself."

"We killed ourselves," returned Sutlememe, "in despair at your death."

On this, said Nouronihar, who, notwithstanding what was past, had not yet forgotten her vision:
"And the Caliph! is he also dead of his grief? and will he likewise come hither?"

The dwarfs, who were prepared with an answer, most demurely replied: "Vathek is damned beyond
all redemption!"

"I readily believe so," said Gulchenrouz, "and I am glad from my heart to hear it; for I am
convinced it was his horrible look that sent us hither to listen to sermons and mess upon rice."

One week passed away on the side of the lake unmarked by any variety; Nouronihar ruminating
on the grandeur of which death had deprived her, and Gulchenrouz applying to prayers and to
panniers, along with the dwarfs, who infinitely pleased him.

Whilst this scene of innocence was exhibiting in the mountains, the Caliph presented himself
to the Emir in a new light; the instant he recovered the use of his senses, with a voice that
made Bababalouk quake, he thundered out: "Perfidious Giaour!  I renounce thee for ever! it
is thou who hast slain my beloved Nouronihar! and I supplicate the pardon of Mahomet, who would
have preserved her to me had I been more wise; let water be brought to perform my ablutions,
and let the pious Fakreddin be called to offer up his prayers with mine, and reconcile me to
him; afterwards we will go together and visit the sepulchre of the unfortunate Nouronihar;
I am resolved to become a hermit, and consume the residue of my days on this mountain, in hope
of expiating my crimes."

Nouronihar was not altogether so content, for though she felt a fondness for Gulchenrouz, who,
to augment the attachment, had been left at full liberty with her, yet she still regarded him
as but a bauble, that bore no competition with the carbuncle of Giamschid.  At times she indulged
doubts on the mode of her being, and scarcely could believe that the dead had all the wants
and the whims of the living.  To gain satisfaction, however, on so perplexing a topic, she
arose one morning whilst all were asleep, with a breathless caution, from the side of Gulchenrouz,
and, after having given him a soft kiss, began to follow the windings of the lake till it terminated
with a rock, whose top was accessible, though lofty; this she clambered up with considerable
toil, and having reached the summit, set forward in a run, like a doe that unwittingly follows
her hunter; though she skipped along with the alertness of an antelope, yet at intervals she
was forced to desist, and rest beneath the tamarisks to recover her breath.  Whilst she, thus
reclined, was occupied with her little reflections on the apprehension that she had some knowledge
of the place, Vathek, who, finding himself that morning but ill at ease, had gone forth before
the dawn, presented himself on a sudden to her view; motionless with surprise, he durst not
approach the figure before him, which lay shrouded up in a simar, extended on the ground, trembling
and pale, but yet lovely to behold.  At length Nouronihar, with a mixture of pleasure and affliction,
raising her fine eyes to him, said: "My lord, are you come hither to eat rice and hear sermons
with me?"

"Beloved phantom!" cried Vathek; "dost thou speak? hast thou the same graceful form? the same
radiant features? art thou palpable likewise?" and, eagerly embracing her, added: "here are
limbs and a bosom animated with a gentle warmth! what can such a prodigy mean?"

Nouronihar with diffidence answered: "You know, my lord, that I died on the night you honoured
me with your visit; my cousin maintains it was from one of your glances, but I cannot believe
him; for to me they seem not so dreadful.  Gulchenrouz died with me, and we were both brought
into a region of desolation, where we are fed with a wretched diet.  If you be dead also, and
are come hither to join us, I pity your lot; for you will be stunned with the noise of the
dwarfs and the storks; besides, it is mortifying in the extreme that you, as well as myself,
should have lost the treasures of the subterranean palace."

At the mention of the subterranean palace the Caliph suspended his caresses, to seek from Nouronihar
an explanation of her meaning.  She then recapitulated her vision, what immediately followed,
and the history of her pretended death, adding also a description of the place of expiation
from whence she had fled, and all in a manner that would have extorted his laughter, had not
the thoughts of Vathek been too deeply engaged.  No sooner, however, had she ended, than he
again clasped her to his bosom, and said:

"Light of my eyes! the mystery is unravelled; we both are alive! your father is a cheat, who,
for the sake of dividing, hath deluded us both; and the Giaour, whose design, as far as I can
discover, is that we shall proceed together, seems scarce a whit better; it shall be some time
at least before he find us in his palace of fire.  Your lovely little person in my estimation
is far more precious than all the treasures of the pre- adamite Sultans, and I wish to possess
it at pleasure, and in open day, for many a moon, before I go to burrow underground like a
mole.  Forget this little trifler, Gulchenrouz, and--"

"Ah! my lord!" interposed Nouronihar, "let me entreat that you do him no evil."

"No, no!" replied Vathek, "I have already bid you forbear to alarm yourself for him; he has
been brought up too much on milk and sugar to stimulate my jealousy; we will leave him with
the dwarfs, who, by the bye, are my old acquaintances; their company will suit him far better
than yours.  As to other matters, I will return no more to your father's; I want not to have
my ears dinned by him and his dotards with the violation of the rites of hospitality; as if
it were less an honour for you to espouse the sovereign of the world than a girl dressed up
like a boy!"

Nouronihar could find nothing to oppose in a discourse so eloquent; she only wished the amorous
monarch had discovered more ardour for the carbuncle of Giamschid; but flattered herself it
would gradually increase, and therefore yielded to his will with the most bewitching submission.

When the Caliph judged it proper, he called for Bababalouk, who was asleep in the cave of Meimoune,
and dreaming that the phantom of Nouronihar, having mounted him once more on her swing, had
just given him such a jerk, that he one moment soared above the mountains, and the next sunk
into the abyss; starting from his sleep at the voice of his master, he ran gasping for breath,
and had nearly fallen backward at the sight, as he believed, of the spectre by whom he had
so lately been haunted in his dream.

"Ah, my lord!" cried he, recoiling ten steps, and covering his eyes with both hands: "do you
then perform the office of a Goul? 'tis true you have dug up the dead, yet hope not to make
her your prey; for after all she hath caused me to suffer, she is even wicked enough to prey
upon you."

"Cease thy folly," said Vathek, "and thou shalt soon be convinced that it is Nouronihar herself,
alive and well, whom I clasp to my breast; go only and pitch my tents in the neighbouring valley;
there will I fix my abode with this beautiful tulip, whose colours I soon shall restore; there
exert thy best endeavours to procure whatever can augment the enjoyments of life, till I shall
disclose to thee more of my will."

The news of so unlucky an event soon reached the ears of the Emir, who abandoned himself to
grief and despair, and began, as did all his old grey-beards, to begrime his visage with ashes.
A total supineness ensued, travellers were no longer entertained, no more plaisters were spread,
and, instead of the charitable activity that had distinguished this asylum, the whole of its
inhabitants exhibited only faces of a half cubit long, and uttered groans that accorded with
their forlorn situation.

Though Fakreddin bewailed his daughter as lost to him for ever, yet Gulchenrouz was not forgotten.
He despatched immediate instruction to Sutlememe, Shaban, and the dwarfs, enjoining them not
to undeceive the child in respect to his state, but, under some pretence, to convey him far
from the lofty rock at the extremity of the lake, to a place which he should appoint, as safer
from danger; for he suspected that Vathek intended him evil.

Gulchenrouz in the meanwhile was filled with amazement at not finding his cousin; nor were
the dwarfs at all less surprised; but Sutlememe, who had more penetration, immediately guessed
what had happened.  Gulchenrouz was amused with the delusive hope of once more embracing Nouronihar
in the interior recesses of the mountains, where the ground, strewed over with orange blossoms
and jasmines, offered beds much more inviting than the withered leaves in their cabin, where
they might accompany with their voices the sounds of their lutes, and chase butterflies in
concert. Sutlememe was far gone in this sort of description, when one of the four eunuchs beckoned
her aside to apprise her of the arrival of a messenger from their fraternity, who had explained
the secret of the flight of Nouronihar, and brought the commands of the Emir.  A council with
Shaban and the dwarfs was immediately held; their baggage being stowed in consequence of it,
they embarked in a shallop, and quietly sailed with the little one, who acquiesced in all their
proposals; their voyage proceeded in the same manner till they came to the place where the
lake sinks beneath the hollow of the rock; but as soon as the bark had entered it, and Gulchenrouz
found himself surrounded with darkness, he was seized with a dreadful consternation, and incessantly
uttered the most piercing outcries; for he now was persuaded he should actually be damned for
having taken too much freedom in his life-time with his cousin.

But let us return to the Caliph and her who ruled over his heart. Bababalouk had pitched the
tents, and closed up the extremities of the valley with magnificent screens of India cloth,
which were guarded by Ethiopian slaves with their drawn sabres; to preserve the verdure of
this beautiful enclosure in its natural freshness, the white eunuchs went continually round
it with their red water-vessels.  The waving of fans was heard near the imperial pavilion,
where, by the voluptuous light that glowed through the muslins, the Caliph enjoyed at full
view all the attractions of Nouronihar.  Inebriated with delight, he was all ear to her charming
voice, which accompanied the lute; while she was not less captivated with his descriptions
of Samarah and the tower full of wonders, but especially with his relation of the adventure
of the ball, and the chasm of the Giaour, with its ebony portal.

In this manner they conversed for a day and a night; they bathed together in a basin of black
marble, which admirably relieved the fairness of Nouronihar.  Bababalouk, whose good graces
this beauty had regained, spared no attention that their repasts might be served up with the
minutest exactness; some exquisite rarity was ever placed before them; and he sent even to
Schiraz for that fragrant and delicious wine which had been hoarded up in bottles prior to
the birth of Mahomet; he had excavated little ovens in the rock to bake the nice manchets which
were prepared by the hands of Nouronihar, from whence they had derived a flavour so grateful
to Vathek, that he regarded the ragouts of his other wives as entirely mawkish; whilst they
would have died at the Emir's of chagrin at finding themselves so neglected, if Fakreddin,
notwithstanding his resentment, had not taken pity upon them.

The Sultana Dilara, who till then had been the favourite, took this dereliction of the Caliph
to heart with a vehemence natural to her character, for during her continuance in favour she
had imbibed from Vathek many of his extravagant fancies, and was filed with impatience to behold
the superb tombs of Istakar, and the palace of forty columns; besides, having been brought
up amongst the Magi, she had fondly cherished the idea of the Caliph's devoting himself to
the worship of fire; thus his voluptuous and desultory life with her rival was to her a double
source of affliction.  The transient piety of Vathek had occasioned her some serious alarms,
but the present was an evil of far greater magnitude; she resolved, therefore, without hesitation,
to write to Carathis, and acquaint her that all things went ill; that they had eaten, slept,
and revelled at an old Emir's, whose sanctity was very formidable, and that after all, the
prospect of possessing the treasures of the pre-adamite Sultans was no less remote than before.
This letter was entrusted to the care of two wood-men, who were at work on one of the great
forests of the mountains, and, being acquainted with the shortest cuts, arrived in ten days
at Samarah.

The Princess Carathis was engaged at chess with Morakanabad, when the arrival of these wood-fellers
was announced.  She, after some weeks of Vathek's absence, had forsaken the upper regions of
her tower, because everything appeared in confusion among the stars, whom she consulted relative
to the fate of her son.  In vain did she renew her fumigations, and extend herself on the roof
to obtain mystic visions; nothing more could she see in her dreams than pieces of brocade,
nosegays of flowers, and other unmeaning gewgaws.  These disappointments had thrown her into
a state of dejection, which no drug in her power was sufficient to remove; her only resource
was in Morakanabad, who was a good man, and endowed with a decent share of confidence, yet
whilst in her company he never thought himself on roses.

No person knew aught of Vathek, and a thousand ridiculous stories were propagated at his expense.
The eagerness of Carathis may be easily guessed at receiving the letter, as well as her rage
at reading the dissolute conduct of her son.  "Is it so?" said she; "either I will perish,
or Vathek shall enter the palace of fire.  Let me expire in flames, provided he may reign on
the throne of Soliman!"  Having said this, and whirled herself round in a magical manner, which
struck Morakanabad with such terror as caused him to recoil, she ordered her great camel Alboufaki
to be brought, and the hideous Nerkes with the unrelenting Cafour to attend.  "I require no
other retinue," said she to Morakanabad; "I am going on affairs of emergency; a truce therefore
to parade!  Take you care of the people; fleece them well in my absence; for we shall expend
large sums, and one knows not what may betide."

The night was uncommonly dark, and a pestilential blast ravaged the plain of Catoul that would
have deterred any other traveller, however urgent the call; but Carathis enjoyed most whatever
filled others with dread. Nerkes concurred in opinion with her, and Cafour had a particular
predilection for a pestilence.  In the morning this accomplished caravan, with the wood-fellers
who directed their route, halted on the edge of an extensive marsh, from whence so noxious
a vapour arose as would have destroyed any animal but Alboufaki, who naturally inhaled these
malignant fogs.  The peasants entreated their convoy not to sleep in this place.

"To sleep," cried Carathis; "what an excellent thought!  I never sleep but for visions; and,
as to my attendants, their occupations are too many to close the only eye they each have."

The poor peasants, who were not over-pleased with their party, remained open-mouthed with surprise.

Carathis alighted, as well as her negresses, and severally stripping off their outer garments,
they all ran in their drawers, to cull from those spots where the sun shone fiercest the venomous
plants that grew on the marsh; this provision was made for the family of the Emir, and whoever
might retard the expedition to Istakar.  The wood-men were overcome with fear when they beheld
these three horrible phantoms run, and, not much relishing the company of Alboufaki, stood
aghast at the command of Carathis to set forward, notwithstanding it was noon, and the heat
fierce enough to calcine even rocks.  In spite, however, of every remonstrance, they were forced
implicitly to submit.

Alboufaki, who delighted in solitude, constantly snorted whenever he perceived himself near
a habitation; and Carathis, who was apt to spoil him with indulgence, as constantly turned
him aside, so that the peasants were precluded from procuring subsistence; for the milch goats
and ewes, which Providence had sent towards the district they traversed, to refresh travellers
with their milk, all fled at the sight of the hideous animal and his strange riders.  As to
Carathis, she needed no common aliment, for her invention had previously furnished her with
an opiate to stay her stomach, some of which she imparted to her mutes.

At the fall of night Alboufaki, making a sudden stop, stamped with his foot, which to Carathis,
who understood his paces, was a certain indication that she was near the confines of some cemetery.
The moon shed a bright light on the spot, which served to discover a long wall, with a large
door in it standing ajar, and so high that Alboufaki might easily enter.  The miserable guides,
who perceived their end approaching, humbly implored Carathis, as she had now so good an opportunity,
to inter them, and immediately gave up the ghost.  Nerkes and Cafour, whose wit was of a style
peculiar to themselves, were by no means parsimonious of it on the folly of these poor people,
nor could anything have been found more suited to their tastes than the site of the burying-ground,
and the sepulchres which its precincts contained; there were at least two thousand of them
on the declivity of a hill: some in the form of pyramids, others like columns, and, in short,
the variety of their shapes was endless.  Carathis was too much immersed in her sublime contemplations
to stop at the view, charming as it appeared in her eyes; pondering the advantages that might
accrue from her present situation, she could not forbear to exclaim:

"So beautiful a cemetery must be haunted by Gouls! and they want not for intelligence; having
heedlessly suffered my guides to expire, I will apply for directions to them, and as an inducement
will invite them to regale on these fresh corpses."

After this short soliloquy she beckoned to Nerkes and Cafour, and made signs with her fingers,
as much as to say, "Go, knock against the sides of the tombs, and strike up your delightful
warblings, that are so like to those of the guests whose company I wish to obtain."

The negresses, full of joy at the behests of their mistress, and promising themselves much
pleasure from the society of the Gouls, went with an air of conquest, and began their knockings
at the tombs; as their strokes were repeated a hollow noise was heard in the earth, the surface
hove up into heaps, and the Gouls on all sides protruded their noses, to inhale the effluvia
which the carcases of the wood-men began to emit.

They assembled before a sarcophagus of white marble, where Carathis was seated between the
bodies of her miserable guides; the princess received her visitants with distinguished politeness,
and, when supper was ended, proceeded with them to business.  Having soon learnt from them
everything she wished to discover, it was her intention to set forward forthwith on her journey,
but her negresses, who were forming tender connections with the Gouls, importuned her with
all their fingers to wait at least till the dawn.  Carathis, however, being chastity in the
abstract, and an implacable enemy to love and repose, at once rejected their prayer, mounted
Alboufaki, and commanded them to take their seats in a moment; four days and four nights she
continued her route, without turning to the right hand or left; on the fifth she traversed
the mountains and half- burnt forests, and arrived on the sixth before the beautiful screens
which concealed from all eyes the voluptuous wanderings of her son.

It was daybreak, and the guards were snoring on their posts in careless security, when the
rough trot of Alboufaki awoke them in consternation. Imagining that a group of spectres ascended
from the abyss was approaching, they all without ceremony took to their heels.  Vathek was
at that instant with Nouronihar in the bath, hearing tales, and laughing at Bababalouk, who
related them; but no sooner did the outcry of his guards reach him, than he flounced from the
water like a carp, and as soon threw himself back at the sight of Carathis, who, advancing
with her negresses upon Alboufaki, broke through the muslin awnings and veils of the pavilion;
at this sudden apparition Nouronihar (for she was not at all times free from remorse) fancied
that the moment of celestial vengeance was come, and clung about the Caliph in amorous despondence.

Carathis, still seated on her camel, foamed with indignation at the spectacle which obtruded
itself on her chaste view; she thundered forth without check or mercy: "Thou double-headed
and four-legged monster! what means all this winding and writhing? art thou not ashamed to
be seen grasping this limber sapling, in preference to the sceptre of the pre- adamite Sultans?
is it then for this paltry doxy that thou hast violated the conditions in the parchment of
our Giaour? is it on her thou hast lavished thy precious moments? is this the fruit of the
knowledge I have taught thee? is this the end of thy journey? tear thyself from the arms of
this little simpleton, drown her in the water before me, and instantly follow my guidance."

In the first ebullition of his fury Vathek resolved to make a skeleton of Alboufaki, and to
stuff the skins of Carathis and her blacks; but the ideas of the Giaour, the palace of Istakar,
the sabres and the talismans, flashing before his imagination with the simultaneousness of
lightning, he became more moderate, and said to his mother, in a civil but decisive tone: "Dread
lady! you shall be obeyed, but I will not drown Nouronihar; she is sweeter to me than a Myrabolan
comfit, and is enamoured of carbuncles, especially that of Giamschid, which hath also been
promised to be conferred upon her; she therefore shall go along with us, for I intend to repose
with her beneath the canopies of Soliman; I can sleep no more without her."

"Be it so!" replied Carathis, alighting, and at the same time committing Alboufaki to the charge
of her women.

Nouronihar, who had not yet quitted her hold, began to take courage, and said, with an accent
of fondness to the Caliph: "Dear Sovereign of my soul!  I will follow thee, if it be thy will,
beyond the Kaf in the land of the Afrits; I will not hesitate to climb for thee the nest of
the Simurgh, who, this lady excepted, is the most awful of created existences."

"We have here then," subjoined Carathis, "a girl both of courage and science!"

Nouronihar had certainly both; but, notwithstanding all her firmness, she could not help casting
back a look of regret upon the graces of her little Gulchenrouz, and the days of tenderness
she had participated with him; she even dropped a few tears, which Carathis observed, and inadvertently
breathed out with a sigh: "Alas! my gentle cousin! what will become of him!"

Vathek at this apostrophe knitted up his brows, and Carathis inquired what it could mean.

"She is preposterously sighing after a stripling with languishing eyes and soft hair, who loves
her," said the Caliph.

"Where is he?" asked Carathis.  "I must be acquainted with this pretty child; for," added she,
lowering her voice, "I design before I depart to regain the favour of the Giaour; there is
nothing so delicious in his estimation as the heart of a delicate boy, palpitating with the
first tumults of love."

Vathek, as he came from the bath, commanded Bababalouk to collect the women and other movables
of his harem, embody his troops, and hold himself in readiness to march in three days; whilst
Carathis retired alone to a tent, where the Giaour solaced her with encouraging visions; but
at length waking, she found at her feet Nerkes and Cafour, who informed her by their signs
that, having led Alboufaki to the borders of a lake, to browse on some moss that looked tolerably
venomous, they had discovered certain blue fishes of the same kind with those in the reservoir
on the top of the tower.

"Ah! ha!" said she, "I will go thither to them; these fish are past doubt of a species that,
by a small operation, I can render oracular; they may tell me where this little Gulchenrouz
is, whom I am bent upon sacrificing."  Having thus spoken, she immediately set out with her
swarthy retinue.

It being but seldom that time is lost in the accomplishment of a wicked enterprise, Carathis
and her negresses soon arrived at the lake, where, after burning the magical drugs with which
they were always provided, they, stripping themselves naked, waded to their chins, Nerkes and
Cafour waving torches around them, and Carathis pronouncing her barbarous incantations.  The
fishes with one accord thrust forth their heads from the water, which was violently rippled
by the flutter of their fins, and, at length finding themselves constrained by the potency
of the charm, they opened their piteous mouths, and said: "From gills to tail we are yours;
what seek ye to know?"

"Fishes," answered she, "I conjure you, by your glittering scales, tell me where now is Gulchenrouz?"

"Beyond the rock," replied the shoal in full chorus; "will this content you? for we do not
delight in expanding our mouths."

"It will," returned the princess; "I am not to learn that you like not long conversations;
I will leave you therefore to repose, though I had other questions to propound."  The instant
she had spoken the water became smooth, and the fishes at once disappeared.

Carathis, inflated with the venom of her projects, strode hastily over the rock, and found
the amiable Gulchenrouz asleep in an arbour, whilst the two dwarfs were watching at his side,
and ruminating their accustomed prayers.  These diminutive personages possessed the gift of
divining whenever an enemy to good Mussulmans approached; thus they anticipated the arrival
of Carathis, who, stopping short, said to herself: "How placidly doth he recline his lovely
little head! how pale and languishing are his looks! it is just the very child of my wishes!"

The dwarfs interrupted this delectable soliloquy by leaping instantly upon her, and scratching
her face with their utmost zeal.  But Nerkes and Cafour, betaking themselves to the succour
of their mistress, pinched the dwarfs so severely in return, that they both gave up the ghost,
imploring Mahomet to inflict his sorest vengeance upon this wicked woman and all her household.

At the noise which this strange conflict occasioned in the valley, Gulchenrouz awoke, and,
bewildered with terror, sprung impetuously upon an old figtree that rose against the acclivity
of the rocks; from thence gained their summits, and ran for two hours without once looking
back.  At last, exhausted with fatigue, he fell as if dead into the arms of a good old Genius,
whose fondness for the company of children had made it his sole occupation to protect them,
and who, whilst performing his wonted rounds through the air, happening on the cruel Giaour
at the instant of his growling in the horrible chasm, rescued the fifty little victims which
the impiety of Vathek had devoted to his maw; these the Genius brought up in nests still higher
than the clouds, and himself fixed his abode in a nest more capacious than the rest, from which
he had expelled the possessors that had built it.

These inviolable asylums were defended against the Dives and the Afrits by waving streamers,
on which were inscribed, in characters of gold that flashed like lightning, the names of Allah
and the Prophet.  It was there that Gulchenrouz, who as yet remained undeceived with respect
to his pretended death, thought himself in the mansions of eternal peace, he admitted without
fear the congratulations of his little friends, who were all assembled in the nest of the venerable
Genius, and vied with each other in kissing his serene forehead and beautiful eyelids.  This
he found to be the state congenial to his soul; remote from the inquietudes of earth, the impertinence
of harems, the brutality of eunuchs, and the lubricity of women: in this peacable society,
his days, months, and years glided on; nor was he less happy than the rest of his companions;
for the Genius, instead of burthening his pupils with perishable riches and the vain sciences
of the world, conferred upon them the boon of perpetual childhood.

Carathis, unaccustomed to the loss of her prey, vented a thousand execrations on her negresses
for not seizing the child, instead of amusing themselves with pinching to death the dwarfs,
from which they could gain no advantage.  She returned into the valley murmuring, and finding
that her son was not risen from the arms of Nouronihar, discharged her ill-humour upon both.
The idea, however, of departing next day for Istakar, and cultivating, through the good offices
of the Giaour, an intimacy with Eblis himself, at length consoled her chagrin. But Fate had
ordained it otherwise.

In the evening, as Carathis was conversing with Dilara, who, through her contrivance, had become
of the party, and whose taste resembled her own, Bababalouk came to acquaint her "that the
sky towards Samarah looked of a fiery red, and seemed to portend some alarming disaster." 
Immediately, recurring to her astrolabes and instruments of magic, she took the altitude of
the planets, and discovered by her calculations, to her great mortification, that a formidable
revolt had taken place at Samarah; that Motavakel, availing himself of the disgust which was
inveterate against his brother, had incited commotions amongst the populace, made himself master
of the palace, and actually invested the great tower, to which Morakanabad had retired, with
a handful of the few that still remained faithful to Vathek.

"What!" exclaimed she; "must I lose then my tower! my mutes! my negresses! my mummies! and,
worse than all, the laboratory in which I have spent so many a night, without knowing at least
if my hair-brained son will complete his adventure?  No!  I will not be the dupe! Immediately
will I speed to support Morakanabad; by my formidable art the clouds shall sleet hailstones
in the faces of the assailants, and shafts of red-hot iron on their heads; I will spring mines
of serpents and torpedos from beneath them, and we shall soon see the stand they will make
against such an explosion!"

Having thus spoken, Carathis hastened to her son, who was tranquilly banqueting with Nouronihar
in his superb carnation-coloured tent.

"Glutton that thou art!" cried she, "were it not for me, thou wouldst soon find thyself the
commander only of pies.  Thy faithful subjects have abjured the faith they swore to thee; Motavakel,
thy brother, now reigns on the hill of pied horses, and had I not some slight resources in
the tower, would not be easily persuaded to abdicate; but, that time may not be lost, I shall
only add four words: Strike tent to-night, set forward, and beware how thou loiterest again
by the way; though thou hast forfeited the conditions of the parchment, I am not yet without
hope; for it cannot be denied that thou hast violated to admiration the laws of hospitality,
by seducing the daughter of the Emir, after having partaken of his bread and his salt.  Such
a conduct cannot but be delightful to the Giaour; and if on thy march thou canst signalise
thyself by an additional crime, all will still go well, and thou shalt enter the palace of
Soliman in triumph.  Adieu!  Alboufaki and my negresses are waiting."

The Caliph had nothing to offer in reply; he wished his mother a prosperous journey, and ate
on till he had finished his supper.  At midnight the camp broke up, amidst the flourishing
of trumpets and other martial instruments; but loud indeed must have been the sound of the
tymbals to overpower the blubbering of the Emir and his long-beards, who, by an excessive profusion
of tears, had so far exhausted the radical moisture, that their eyes shrivelled up in their
sockets, and their hairs dropped off by the roots.  Nouronihar, to whom such a symphony was
painful, did not grieve to get out of hearing; she accompanied the Caliph in the imperial litter,
where they amused themselves with imagining the splendour which was soon to surround them.
The other women, overcome with dejection, were dolefully rocked in their cages, whilst Dilara
consoled herself with anticipating the joy of celebrating the rites of fire on the stately
terraces of Istakar.

In four days they reached the spacious valley of Rocnabad.  The season of spring was in all
its vigour, and the grotesque branches of the almond trees in full blossom fantastically chequered
the clear blue sky; the earth, variegated with hyacinths and jonquils, breathed forth a fragrance
which diffused through the soul a divine repose; myriads of bees, and scarce fewer of Santons,
had there taken up their abode; on the banks of the stream hives and oratories were alternately
ranged, and their neatness and whiteness were set off by the deep green of the cypresses that
spired up amongst them.  These pious personages amused themselves with cultivating little gardens
that abounded with flowers and fruits, especially musk-melons of the best flavour that Persia
could boast; sometimes dispersed over the meadow, they entertained themselves with feeding
peacocks whiter than snow, and turtles more blue than the sapphire; in this manner were they
occupied when the harbingers of the imperial procession began to proclaim: "Inhabitants of
Rocnabad! prostrate yourselves on the brink of your pure waters, and tender your thanksgivings
to Heaven, that vouchsafeth to show you a ray of its glory; for lo! the Commander of the Faithful
draws near."

The poor Santons, filled with holy energy, having bustled to light up wax torches in their
oratories and expand the Koran on their ebony desks, went forth to meet the Caliph with baskets
of honeycomb, dates, and melons.  But, whilst they were advancing in solemn procession and
with measured steps, the horses, camels, and guards wantoned over their tulips and other flowers,
and made a terrible havoc amongst them.  The Santons could not help casting from one eye a
look of pity on the ravages committing around them, whilst the other was fixed upon the Caliph
and heaven.  Nouronihar, enraptured with the scenery of a place which brought back to her remembrance
the pleasing solitudes where her infancy had passed, entreated Vathek to stop; but he, suspecting
that each oratory might be deemed by the Giaour a distinct habitation, commanded his pioneers
to level them all; the Santons stood motionless with horror at the barbarous mandate, and at
last broke out into lamentations; but these were uttered with so ill a grace, that Vathek bade
his eunuchs to kick them from his presence.  He then descended from the litter with Nouronihar;
they sauntered together in the meadow, and amused themselves with culling flowers, and passing
a thousand pleasantries on each other. But the bees, who were staunch Mussulmans, thinking
it their duty to revenge the insult on their dear masters the Santons, assembled so zealously
to do it with effect, that the Caliph and Nouronihar were glad to find their tents prepared
to receive them.

Bababalouk, who in capacity of purveyor had acquitted himself with applause as to peacocks
and turtles, lost no time in consigning some dozens to the spit, and as many more to be fricasseed.
Whilst they were feasting, laughing, carousing, and blaspheming at pleasure on the banquet
so liberally furnished, the Moullahs, the Sheiks, the Cadis and Imams of Schiraz (who seemed
not to have met the Santons) arrived, leading by bridles of riband inscribed from the Koran,
a train of asses, which were loaded with the choicest fruits the country could boast; having
presented their offerings to the Caliph, they petitioned him to honour their city and mosques
with his presence.

"Fancy not," said Vathek, "that you can detain me; your presents I condescend to accept, but
beg you will let me be quiet, for I am not over- fond of resisting temptation; retire, then;
yet, as it is not decent for personages so reverend to return on foot, and as you have not
the appearance of expert riders, my eunuchs shall tie you on your asses, with the precaution
that your backs be not turned towards me, for they understand etiquette."

In this deputation were some high-stomached Sheiks, who, taking Vathek for a fool, scrupled
not to speak their opinion.  These Bababalouk girded with double cords, and, having well disciplined
their asses with nettles behind, they all started with a preternatural alertness, plunging,
kicking, and running foul of each other in the most ludicrous manner imaginable. 

"The transformation of apostate man From fool to wise, from earthly to divine, Is work for Him that
made him."

Among a barbarous people the gospel effects changes in one generation
which ages without its grace have failed to secure. "In coming back
to the station on the Kuruman," says Livingstone, "from the tribes
in the interior, I always felt that I had come back to civilization."

It is the Gospel which has made the Kuruman; and what it is, other
stations are already beginning to be. Apart from its christian church
and christian community; apart from the many who have lived a holy
life and died in the Lord; apart from the well studied translation
of the Bible to which Mr. Moffat has given the strength of his life,--all
over the northern territory the tribes which have heard the Gospel
are waking up to new, strange thought; conscience is struggling upward
into power; and life is taking for them a new form, and is exhibiting
a higher purpose.

Peace is desired more than ever; towns and settlements are becoming seats of constant industry;
waggons are purchased by chiefs and people; cottages and gardens
multiply.

When Sechele and five thousand of his people hold a meeting to pray
for rain, and gather again to offer thanks for the blessing bestowed,
the influence of the rain-maker must be on the decline.

And when the Matebele hope that the successor of Moselekatse, wandering
in other districts, will have learned the religion of the gospel,
and rule gently according to its precepts, surely the time for their
deliverance is nigh at hand.

X.--MADAGASCAR.

The MADAGASCAR MISSION is peculiarly dear to the friends of the London
Missionary Society; and not to them only, but to all the supporters
of Foreign Missions.

It is the child of their affection; the object of their most tender compassion,
their yearnings, and their prayers. Its long trial of suffering, the
grace given to its scattered members, their patience, their fidelity,
have drawn to its churches the love, the confidence, the reverence
of all christian hearts.

One of these beneficent Genii, assuming without delay the exterior of a shepherd, more renowned
for his piety than all the Dervises and Santons of the region, took his station near a flock
of white sheep on the slope of a hill, and began to pour forth from his flute such airs of
pathetic melody as subdued the very soul, and, awakening remorse, drove far from it every frivolous
fancy.  At these energetic sounds the sun hid himself beneath a gloomy cloud, and the waters
of two little lakes, that were naturally clearer than crystal, became of a colour like blood.
The whole of this superb assembly was involuntarily drawn towards the declivity of the hill;
with downcast eyes they all stood abashed, each upbraiding himself with the evil he had done;
the heart of Dilara palpitated, and the chief of the eunuchs with a sigh of contrition implored
pardon of the women, whom for his own satisfaction he had so often tormented.

Vathek and Nouronihar turned pale in their litter, and, regarding each other with haggard looks,
reproached themselves--the one with a thousand of the blackest crimes, a thousand projects
of impious ambition--the other with the desolation of her family, and the perdition of the
amiable Gulchenrouz.  Nouronihar persuaded herself that she heard in the fatal music the groans
of her dying father, and Vathek the sobs of the fifty children he had sacrificed to the Giaour.
Amidst these complicated pangs of anguish they perceived themselves impelled towards the shepherd,
whose countenance was so commanding, that Vathek for the first time felt overawed, whilst Nouronihar
concealed her face with her hands.

The music paused, and the Genius, addressing the Caliph, said: "Deluded Prince! to whom Providence
hath confided the care of innumerable subjects, is it thus that thou fulfillest thy mission?
Thy crimes are already completed, and art thou now hastening towards thy punishment? Thou knowest
that beyond these mountains Eblis and his accursed Dives hold their infernal empire; and, seduced
by a malignant phantom, thou art proceeding to surrender thyself to them!  This moment is the
last of grace allowed thee; abandon thy atrocious purpose; return; give back Nouronihar to
her father, who still retains a few sparks of life; destroy thy tower with all its abominations;
drive Carathis from thy councils; be just to thy subjects; respect the ministers of the Prophet;
compensate for thy impieties by an exemplary life; and, instead of squandering thy days in
voluptuous indulgence, lament thy crimes on the sepulchres of thy ancestors.  Thou beholdest
the clouds that obscure the sun; at the instant he recovers his splendour, if thy heart be
not changed, the time of mercy assigned thee will be past for ever."

Vathek, depressed with fear, was on the point of prostrating himself at the feet of the shepherd,
whom he perceived to be of a nature superior to man; but, his pride prevailing, he audaciously
lifted his head, and, glancing at him one of his terrible looks, said: "Whoever thou art, withhold
thy useless admonitions; thou wouldst either delude me, or art thyself deceived.  If what I
have done be so criminal as thou pretendest, there remains not for me a moment of grace; I
have traversed a sea of blood to acquire a power which will make thy equals tremble; deem not
that I shall retire when in view of the port, or that I will relinquish her who is dearer to
me than either my life or thy mercy.  Let the sun appear! let him illumine my career! it matters
not where it may end."  On uttering these words, which made even the Genius shudder, Vathek
threw himself into the arms of Nouronihar, and commanded that his horse should be forced back
to the road.

There was no difficulty in obeying these orders, for the attraction had ceased; the sun shone
forth in all his glory, and the shepherd vanished with a lamentable scream.

The fatal impression of the music of the Genius remained, notwithstanding, in the heart of
Vathek's attendants; they viewed each other with looks of consternation; at the approach of
night almost all of them escaped, and of this numerous assemblage there only remained the chief
of the eunuchs, some idolatrous slaves, Dilara and a few other women, who, like herself, were
votaries of the religion of the Magi.

The Caliph, fired with the ambition of prescribing laws to the Intelligences of Darkness, was
but little embarrassed at this dereliction; the impetuosity of his blood prevented him from
sleeping, nor did he encamp any more as before.  In this manner they advanced by moonlight,
till they came within view of the two towering rocks that form a kind of portal to the valley,
at whose extremity rose the vast ruins of Istakar.  Aloft on the mountain glimmered the fronts
of various royal mausoleums, the horror of which was deepened by the shadows of night.  They
passed through two villages almost deserted, the only inhabitants remaining being a few feeble
old men, who, at the sight of horses and litters, fell upon their knees and cried out:

"O Heaven! is it then by these phantoms that we have been for six months tormented?  Alas!
it was from the terror of these spectres and the noise beneath the mountains, that our people
have fled, and left us at the mercy of maleficent spirits!"

The Caliph, to whom these complaints were but unpromising auguries, drove over the bodies of
these wretched old men, and at length arrived at the foot of the terrace of black marble; there
he descended from his litter, handing down Nouronihar; both with beating hearts stared wildly
around them, and expected with an apprehensive shudder the approach of the Giaour; but nothing
as yet announced his appearance.

A death-like stillness reigned over the mountain and through the air; the moon dilated on a
vast platform the shades of the lofty columns, which reached from the terrace almost to the
clouds; the gloomy watch-towers, whose numbers could not be counted, were veiled by no roof,
and their capitals, of an architecture unknown in the records of the earth, served as an asylum
for the birds of darkness, which, alarmed at the approach of such visitants, fled away croaking.

The chief of the eunuchs, trembling with fear, besought Vathek that a fire might be kindled.

"No!" replied he, "there is no time left to think of such trifles; abide where thou art, and
expect my commands."

Having thus spoken, he presented his hand to Nouronihar, and, ascending the steps of a vast
staircase, reached the terrace, which was flagged with squares of marble, and resembled a smooth
expanse of water, upon whose surface not a leaf ever dared to vegetate; on the right rose the
watch-towers, ranged before the ruins of an immense palace, whose walls were embossed with
various figures; in front stood forth the colossal forms of four creatures, composed of the
leopard and the griffin; and, though but of stone, inspired emotions of terror; near these
were distinguished by the splendour of the moon, which streamed full on the place, characters
like those on the sabres of the Giaour, that possessed the same virtue of changing every moment;
these, after vacillating for some time, at last fixed in Arabic letters, and prescribed to
the Caliph the following words:

"Vathek! thou hast violated the conditions of my parchment, and deservest to be sent back;
but, in favour to thy companion, and as the meed for what thou hast done to obtain it, EBLIS
permitteth that the portal of his palace shall be opened, and the subterranean fire will receive
thee into the number of its adorers."

He scarcely had read these words before the mountain against which the terrace was reared trembled,
and the watch-towers were ready to topple headlong upon them; the rock yawned, and disclosed
within it a staircase of polished marble that seemed to approach the abyss; upon each stair
were planted two large torches, like those Nouronihar had seen in her vision, the camphorated
vapour ascending from which gathered into a cloud under the hollow of the vault.

This appearance, instead of terrifying, gave new courage to the daughter of Fakreddin.  Scarcely
deigning to bid adieu to the moon and the firmament, she abandoned without hesitation the pure
atmosphere to plunge into these infernal exhalations.  The gait of those impious personages
was haughty and determined; as they descended by the effulgence of the torches they gazed on
each other with mutual admiration, and both appeared so resplendent, that they already esteemed
themselves spiritual Intelligences; the only circumstance that perplexed them was their not
arriving at the bottom of the stairs; on hastening their descent with an ardent impetuosity,
they felt their steps accelerated to such a degree, that they seemed not walking, but falling
from a precipice.  Their progress, however, was at length impeded by a vast portal of ebony,
which the Caliph without difficulty recognised; here the Giaour awaited them with the key in
his hand.

"Ye are welcome," said he to them, with a ghastly smile, "in spite of Mahomet and all his dependants.
I will now admit you into that palace where you have so highly merited a place."

Whilst he was uttering these words he touched the enamelled lock with his key, and the doors
at once expanded, with a noise still louder than the thunder of mountains, and as suddenly
recoiled the moment they had entered.

The Caliph and Nouronihar beheld each other with amazement, at finding themselves in a place
which, though roofed with a vaulted ceiling, was so spacious and lofty that at first they took
it for an immeasurable plain. But their eyes at length growing familiar to the grandeur of
the objects at hand, they extended their view to those at a distance, and discovered rows of
columns and arcades, which gradually diminished till they terminated in a point, radiant as
the sun when he darts his last beams athwart the ocean; the pavement, strewed over with gold
dust and saffron, exhaled so subtle an odour as almost overpowered them; they, however, went
on, and observed an infinity of censers, in which ambergris and the wood of aloes were continually
burning; between the several columns were placed tables, each spread with a profusion of viands,
and wines of every species sparkling in vases of crystal.  A throng of Genii and other fantastic
spirits of each sex danced in troops, at the sound of music which issued from beneath.

In the midst of this immense hall a vast multitude was incessantly passing, who severally kept
their right hands on their hearts, without once regarding anything around them; they had all
the livid paleness of death; their eyes, deep sunk in their sockets, resembled those phosphoric
meteors that glimmer by night in places of interment.  Some stalked slowly on, absorbed in
profound reverie; some, shrieking with agony, ran furiously about, like tigers wounded with
poisoned arrows; whilst others, grinding their teeth in rage, foamed along, more frantic than
the wildest maniac.  They all avoided each other, and, though surrounded by a multitude that
no one could number, each wandered at random, unheedful of the rest, as if alone on a desert
which no foot had trodden.

Vathek and Nouronihar, frozen with terror at a sight so baleful, demanded of the Giaour what
these appearances might mean, and why these ambulating spectres never withdrew their hands
from their hearts.

"Perplex not yourselves," replied he bluntly, "with so much; at once you will soon be acquainted
with all; let us haste and present you to Eblis."

They continued their way through the multitude but, notwithstanding their confidence at first,
they were not sufficiently composed to examine with attention the various perspectives of halls
and of galleries that opened on the right hand and left, which were all illuminated by torches
and braziers, whose flames rose in pyramids to the centre of the vault.  At length they came
to a place where long curtains, brocaded with crimson and gold, fell from all parts in striking
confusion; here the choirs and dances were heard no longer; the light which glimmered came
from afar.

After some time Vathek and Nouronihar perceived a gleam brightening through the drapery, and
entered a vast tabernacle carpeted with the skins of leopards; an infinity of elders with streaming
beards, and Afrits in complete armour, had prostrated themselves before the ascent of a lofty
eminence, on the top of which, upon a globe of fire, sat the formidable Eblis.  His person
was that of a young man, whose noble and regular features seemed to have been tarnished by
malignant vapours; in his large eyes appeared both pride and despair; his flowing hair retained
some resemblance to that of an angel of light; in his hand, which thunder had blasted, he swayed
the iron sceptre that causes the monster Ouranabad, the Afrits, and all the powers of the abyss
to tremble; at his presence the heart of the Caliph sank within him, and for the first time
he fell prostrate on his face.  Nouronihar, however, though greatly dismayed, could not help
admiring the person of Eblis; for she expected to have seen some stupendous giant. The sentiment
that brings us here to-day is one of the noblest that can stir and thrill the human heart.
It has crowned and made glorious the high places of all civilized
nations with the grandest and most enduring works of art, designed
to illustrate the characters and perpetuate the memories of great
public men.

It is the sentiment, which from year to year adorns with fragrant and beautiful flowers the graves
of our loyal, brave, and patriotic soldiers who fell in defense of
the Union and Liberty.

It is
the sentiment of gratitude and appreciation, which often, in the presence of many who hear
me, has filled yonder heights of Arlington with the eloquence of eulogy and the sublime enthusiasm
of poetry and song; a sentiment which can never die while the Republic
lives.

Vathek and Nouronihar, feeling themselves revived and encouraged by this harangue, eagerly
said to the Giaour:

"Bring us instantly to the place which contains these precious talismans."

"Come!" answered this wicked Dive, with his malignant grin, "come! and possess all that my
sovereign hath promised, and more."

He then conducted them into a long aisle adjoining the tabernacle, preceding them with hasty
steps, and followed by his disciples with the utmost alacrity.

This king, so renowned for his wisdom, was on the loftiest elevation, and placed immediately
under the dome; he appeared to possess more animation than the rest; though from time to time
he laboured with profound sighs, and, like his companions, kept his right hand on his heart;
yet his countenance was more composed, and he seemed to be listening to the sullen roar of
a vast cataract, visible in part through the grated portals: this was the only sound that intruded
on the silence of these doleful mansions.  A range of brazen vases surrounded the elevation.

"Remove the covers from these cabalistic depositories," said the Giaour to Vathek, "and avail
thyself of the talismans, which will break asunder all these gates of bronze; and not only
render thee master of the treasures contained within them, but also of the spirits by which
they are guarded."

The Caliph, whom this ominous preliminary had entirely disconcerted, approached the vases with
faltering footsteps, and was ready to sink with terror when he heard the groans of Soliman.
As he proceeded a voice from the livid lips of the Prophet articulated these words:

"In my life-time I filled a magnificent throne, having on my right hand twelve thousand seats
of gold, where the patriarchs and the prophets heard my doctrines; on my left the sages and
doctors, upon as many thrones of silver, were present at all my decisions.  Whilst I thus administered
justice to innumerable multitudes, the birds of the air librating over me served as a canopy
from the rays of the sun; my people flourished, and my palace rose to the clouds; I erected
a temple to the Most High, which was the wonder of the universe; but I basely suffered myself
to be seduced by the love of women, and a curiosity that could not be restrained by sublunary
things; I listened to the counsels of Aherman and the daughter of Pharaoh, and adored fire
and the hosts of heaven; I forsook the holy city, and commanded the Genii to rear the stupendous
palace of Istakar, and the terrace of the watch-towers, each of which was consecrated to a
star; there for a while I enjoyed myself in the zenith of glory and pleasure; not only men,
but supernatural existences were subject also to my will. Fellow thought it was a bill of sale for thirty
acres he was signing, and it was three hundred."

"Best thing was when he made old man Meeker believe he was dying, and
deed over a good fifty thousand dollars in stock to his daughter--and
married the girl, sir, before the old fellow found he was good for
twenty years more.

He made the air smell of brimstone the rest of his life if you mentioned
Garvey to him! Drowned in a ford a winter or two later, after all.

Having uttered this exclamation, Soliman raised his hands towards heaven, in token of supplication,
and the Caliph discerned through his bosom, which was transparent as crystal, his heart enveloped
in flames.  At a sight so full of horror Nouronihar fell back, like one petrified, into the
arms of Vathek, who cried out with a convulsive sob:

"O Giaour! whither hast thou brought us?  Allow us to depart, and I will relinquish all thou
hast promised.  O Mahomet! remains there no more mercy?"

"None! none!" replied the malicious Dive.  "Know, miserable prince! thou art now in the abode
of vengeance and despair; thy heart also will be kindled, like those of the other votaries
of Eblis.  A few days are allotted thee previous to this fatal period; employ them as thou
wilt; recline on these heaps of gold; command the Infernal Potentates; range at thy pleasure
through these immense subterranean domains; no barrier shall be shut against thee; as for me,
I have fulfilled my mission; I now leave thee to thyself."  At these words he vanished.

The Caliph and Nouronihar remained in the most abject affliction; their tears unable to flow,
scarcely could they support themselves.  At length, taking each other despondingly by the hand,
they went faltering from this fatal hall, indifferent which way they turned their steps; every
portal opened at their approach; the Dives fell prostrate before them; every reservoir of riches
was disclosed to their view; but they no longer felt the incentives of curiosity, pride, or
avarice.  With like apathy they heard the chorus of Genii, and saw the stately banquets prepared
to regale them; they went wandering on from chamber to chamber, hall to hall, and gallery to
gallery, all without bounds or limit, all distinguishable by the same lowering gloom, all adorned
with the same awful grandeur, all traversed by persons in search of repose and consolation,
but who sought them in vain; for every one carried within him a heart tormented in flames:
shunned by these various sufferers, who seemed by their looks to be upbraiding the partners
of their guilt, they withdrew from them to wait in direful suspense the moment which should
render them to each other the like objects of terror.

"What!" exclaimed Nouronihar; "will the time come when I shall snatch my hand from thine!"

"Ah!" said Vathek; "and shall my eyes ever cease to drink from thine long draughts of enjoyment!
Shall the moments of our reciprocal ecstasies be reflected on with horror?  It was not thou
that broughtest me hither; the principles by which Carathis perverted my youth have been the
sole cause of my perdition!"  Having given vent to these painful expressions, he called to
an Afrit, who was stirring up one of the braziers, and bade him fetch the Princess Carathis
from the palace of Samarah. 

Now, it was not thus under the new reign, and the chief of police sincerely deplored it. What! no banishment
for life for other crimes than those against social order! What! political exiles returning from
Tobolsk, from Yakutsk, from Irkutsk!

In
truth, the chief of police, accustomed to the despotic sentences of the ukase which formerly never
pardoned, could not understand this mode of governing. But he was silent, waiting until the Czar
should interrogate him further. The questions were not long in coming.
  On seeing the Caliph and the daughter of Fakreddin enter,
they arose, saluted, and gave them place; then he who appeared the most considerable of the
group addressed himself thus to Vathek:

"Strangers! who doubtless are in the same state of suspense with ourselves, as you do not yet
bear your hands on your hearts, if you are come hither to pass the interval allotted previous
to the infliction of our common punishment, condescend to relate the adventures that have brought
you to this fatal place, and we in return will acquaint you with ours, which deserve but too
well to be heard; we will trace back our crimes to their source, though we are not permitted
to repent; this is the only employment suited to wretches like us!"

The Caliph and Nouronihar assented to the proposal, and Vathek began, not without tears and
lamentations, a sincere recital of every circumstance that had passed.  When the afflicting
narrative was closed, the young man entered on his own.  Each person proceeded in order, and
when the fourth prince had reached the midst of his adventures, a sudden noise interrupted
him, which caused the vault to tremble and to open.

Immediately a cloud descended, which gradually dissipating, discovered Carathis on the back
of an Afrit, who grievously complained of his burden.  She, instantly springing to the ground,
advanced towards her son, and said:

"What dost thou here in this little square chamber?  As the Dives are become subject to thy
beck, I expected to have found thee on the throne of the pre-adamite kings."

"Execrable woman!" answered the Caliph; "cursed be the day thou gavest me birth! go, follow
this Afrit; let him conduct thee to the hall of the Prophet Soliman, there thou wilt learn
to what these palaces are destined, and how much I ought to abhor the impious knowledge thou
hast taught me."

"The height of power to which thou art arrived has certainly turned thy brain," answered Carathis;
"but I ask no more than permission to show my respect for the Prophet.  It is, however, proper
thou shouldest know, that (as the Afrit has informed me neither of us shall return to Samarah)
I requested his permission to arrange my affairs, and he politely consented; availing myself,
therefore, of the few moments allowed me, I set fire to the tower, and consumed in it the mutes,
negresses, and serpents which have rendered me so much good service; nor should I have been
less kind to Morakanabad, had he not prevented me by deserting at last to thy brother.  As
for Bababalouk, who had the folly to return to Samarah, and all the good brotherhood to provide
husbands for thy wives, I undoubtedly would have put them to the torture, could I but have
allowed them the time; being, however, in a hurry, I only hung him after having caught him
in a snare with thy wives, whilst them I buried alive by the help of my negresses, who thus
spent their last moments greatly to their satisfaction.  With respect to Dilara, who ever stood
high in my favour, she hath evinced the greatness of her mind by fixing herself near in the
service of one of the Magi, and I think will soon be our own."

Vathek, too much cast down to express the indignation excited by such a discourse, ordered
the Afrit to remove Carathis from his presence, and continued immersed in thought, which his
companion durst not disturb. 

Macaroni, Rice, Polenta, and Other Italian Pastes{*}

* Italian pastes of the best quality can be obtained at Cosenza's,
Wigmore Street, NW. For the following dishes, tagliarelle and spaghetti
are recommended.

No. 182. Macaroni with Tomatoes

Ingredients: Macaroni, tomatoes, butter, onion, basil, pepper, salt.

Fry half an onion slightly in butter, and as soon as it is coloured
add a puree of two big cooked tomatoes.

Then boil quarter of a pound of macaroni separately, drain it and put
it in a deep fireproof dish, add the tomato puree and three tablespoonsful
of grated Parmesan and Cheddar mixed, and cook gently for a quarter
of an hour before serving. This dish may be made with vermicelli,
spaghetti, or any other Italian paste.  As she was emerging from one of the abysses, Eblis stood forth to her view; but, notwithstanding
he displayed the full effulgence of his infernal majesty, she preserved her countenance unaltered,
and even paid her compliments with considerable firmness.

This superb monarch thus answered: "Princess, whose knowledge and whose crimes have merited
a conspicuous rank in my empire, thou dost well to employ the leisure that remains; for the
flames and torments, which are ready to seize on thy heart, will not fail to provide thee with
full employment."  He said this, and was lost in the curtains of his tabernacle.

Carathis paused for a moment with surprise; but, resolved to follow the advice of Eblis, she
assembled all the choirs of Genii, and all the Dives, to pay her homage; thus marched she in
triumph through a vapour of perfumes, amidst the acclamations of all the malignant spirits,
with most of whom she had formed a previous acquaintance; she even attempted to dethrone one
of the Solimans for the purpose of usurping his place, when a voice, proceeding from the abyss
of Death, proclaimed, "All is accomplished!"  Instantaneously the haughty forehead of the intrepid
princess was corrugated with agony; she uttered a tremendous yell, and fixed, no more to be
withdrawn, her right hand upon her heart, which was become a receptacle of eternal fire. 

One day she hears him singing in a grotto, and is charmed by the graceful
replies he makes to her questions.

A little later he saves her from robbers at the expense of a slight wound. She offers to make
him groom of her chamber, but fearful of being recognized, he declines.
 was, and such should be, the punishment of unrestrained passions and atrocious actions!
Such is, and such should be, the chastisement of blind ambition, that would transgress those
bounds which the Creator hath prescribed to human knowledge; and, by aiming at discoveries
reserved for pure Intelligence, acquire that infatuated pride, which perceives not that the
condition appointed to man is to be ignorant and humble.

