'Mrs. Franklin's husband,' she resumed, 'was a very rich man, and very religious and strict;
his daughter Sophia took after him much, and was a very good girl; but his wife and daughter
Josephine were exactly contrary to him, for they were very giddy and gay, always going to theatres,
and balls, and such like places, keeping late hours, and acting so dissipated like, that at
last Mr. Franklin was determined to put a stop to it entirely, and make them stay at home.
So he told them that he shouldn't allow them to go on as they had any longer; and having once
said the word, he stuck to it. My lady and Miss Josephine were both very much dissatisfied
with Mr. Franklin, on account of his being so strict with them; and I could plainly see that
they began to hate him. It is now about two years ago, and Josephine was in her sixteenth year
(ah, sir, I have good reason to remember the time,) when I found myself in the way to become
a mother, having been led astray by a young man, who deceived me under a promise of marriage,
and then deserted me. Well, sir, my situation was at last noticed by my lady and her daughter,
and one evening they called me up into a chamber, and accused me of being a lewd girl. Falling
on my knees, I acknowledged my fault, and implored them to pity and forgive me, and not turn
me off without a character. Then Miss Josephine spoke harshly to me, and asked me how I dared
do such a thing, and bring disgrace upon their house and family; and her mother threatened
to send me to jail, which frightened me so that I promised to do anything in the world if they
would forgive me. 'Will you do any thing we command you to do, if we forgive you?' asked Mrs.
Franklin; and I said that I would. 'You must swear it,' said Miss Josephine; and getting a
Bible, they made me swear a dreadful oath to do as they bid me. They then told me that there
was one thing I must do, and they would give me as much money as I wanted; they said I must
kill Mr. Franklin! On hearing such a horrible request, I almost fainted; and told them that
I never would do such a dreadful thing. But they reminded me of my oath, and at last threatened
and frightened me so, that I consented to do the awful deed. 'It must be done to-night!' said
Miss Josephine, and her eyes seemed to flash fire; then she gave me some brandy to drink, which
flew into my brain, and I felt myself able to do anything, no matter how wicked it might be.--They
staid with me until midnight, and made me drink brandy until I was almost crazy. You must know,
sir, that Mr. Franklin slept in a separate room from my lady, ever since their disagreement;
upon that dreadful night he retired to bed at about ten o'clock. Well--but oh, my God! how
can I tell the dreadful truth!--yet I must nerve myself to confess the whole matter. At midnight,
Mrs. Franklin brought into the room a small copper cup, which contained a small quantity of
lead; this cup she held over the lamp until the lead was melted as thin as water; and then
she handed it to me, and told me to go softly into her husband's room, and pour the lead into
his ear! I DID IT! Yes, as God is my Judge, I did it!--The poor gentleman was lying on his
side, in a sound sleep; with a steady hand I poured the liquid metal into his ear--it did not
awake him! he merely shuddered once, and died.--The next morning he was found by his servant,
stiff and cold. Some people talked of 'disease of the heart,' others, of 'apoplexy,' many,
of 'the visitation of God,' while some shrugged their shoulders, and said nothing. But I knew
the secret of his death! He was buried with great pomp in the family tomb in St. Paul's churchyard.
My confession is made. After the funeral, my lady and Josephine gave me plenty of money. 'Go,'
said they, 'to some other city, and take up your abode; you will never the mention the manner
in which Mr. Franklin came to his death, for such a disclosure would bring your own neck to
the halter, without injuring us--your hand alone did the deed!' I went to Boston, and gave
birth to a stillborn child; my money soon went and I became a common prostitute.--Disease soon
overtook me--but why dwell upon the misfortunes and wanderings of a wretch like me? A week
ago, I found myself again in New York, the inmate of this garret; to-day I felt myself dying,
and sent for a clergyman to hear my dying confession. I am exhausted; I can say no more--God
have mercy on me!'

'One word more,' cried the rector; 'by what name were you known to the Franklins?'

'Mary Welch,' she replied, faintly.

The wretched creature soon afterwards breathed her last.

The Doctor left a sufficient sum of money with the inmates of the house to defray the expenses
of the woman's funeral, and took his departure from that scene of wretchedness. As he retraced
his steps to his own dwelling, his thoughts were of the most painful nature; the woman's confession,
implicating Josephine and her mother in the crime of murder, horrified him, and gave rise to
the most terrible reflections. In his own heart he could not doubt the truth of the wretched
woman's statement, made as it was on her death-bed, and just as she was about to be ushered
into the presence of her Maker.

'My God!' thought the rector, entering his study, and throwing himself distractedly into a
seat--'to what a dreadful disclosure have I listened--Josephine the murderess of her father!
Mrs. Franklin the murderess of her husband! Can it be possible?--Alas, I cannot doubt it; for
why should that woman, at the awful moment of her dissolution, tell a falsehood? I remember
now the circumstances of Mr. Franklin's death; it was sudden and unaccountable, and privately
spoken of with suspicion, as to its cause; yet those suspicions never assumed any definite
shape.--The poor gentleman was buried without any post mortem examination, and the singular
circumstances of his death were gradually forgotten. I know i was looking every time I'd hear the slave
say,'beg, Master.'"once, when i was milking a cow, i asked Master
Ousley,'Master Ousley, will you do me a favor?'" are you the Mr. Meriwether's
mccracken for? he said in a while and then went back.

"it been just seemed i couldn't go through the gate. We didn't have any
churches." my heart in my mouth.

I didn't even know where mccracken County was, but my sister was
there.

I wanted
to find my sister.

I
asked if this was the house where my sister stayed, i went through the gate. Her mistress said,'yes, she's to the
back. I hid for his drawl,'of course i will.'"'take me to scared County,'them
said. I never even saw my sister that time.

When
i reached the
house where Mary Meriwether lived.



'But previous to that interview,' thought he, 'I will make assurance doubly sure; I will find
means to enter the vault wherein Mr. Franklin's body was interred; I will examine the remains,
and as my knowledge of human anatomy is considerable, I shall have no difficulty in discovering
the evidences of foul play, if such evidences exist. Having thus satisfied myself beyond the
shadow of a doubt that Mr. Franklin was murdered, I can with confidence accuse Josephine and
her mother of the deed; and from that moment, all connection between me and that wicked woman
shall cease forever. I have been infatuated and enslaved by her seductive beauty and her fascinating
favors; but thank God, I am myself again, and resolved to atone for the past, by leading a
life of purity and virtue for the future.'

That night the Doctor was called on to perform the marriage ceremony at the house of a friend,
at a distant part of the city; and it was late when he set out to return to his own home.

It was a dismal night, dark and starless; the sky was laden with impending storm, and the rector
shuddered as he looked forward into the gloom, and contrasted it with the scene of light and
gaiety which he had just left. His heart was oppressed with a heavy weight; for he could not
shake off the dreadful thought that Josephine--beautiful and accomplished Josephine--whom he
had loved with a fervent though unholy passion--was a murderess!

While hurrying on with rapid strides, his mind tortured by such painful reflections, a tall
figure suddenly stood before him, and a voice whispered--

'Deliver your money, or die!'

The rector perceived that the robber had his arm raised, and that he held in his hand a large
knife, ready to strike in case of resistance or alarm. Dr. Sinclair was no coward; had there
been a single chance in his favor, he would have grappled with the robber, rather than yield
to his demand; yet he was slender and by no means powerful--he was also unarmed; and besides,
the idea flashed through his mind that the desperado might be of use to him, and these considerations
prompted him to speak in a conciliatory tone and manner:--

'Friend,' said he, 'unfortunately for you I am but a poor parson, and have only about me a
few dollars, which I have just received as my fee for uniting a happy couple in the holy bonds
of wedlock. What I have you are welcome to; here is my purse.'

The robber took the purse, and was about to move off, when the rector called to him and said,--

'Stay, friend; you are the very man I want to assist me in a dangerous enterprise--one that
requires courage, and strength, and skill; if you engage to aid me, your reward shall be liberal--what
say you?'

'You must first tell me what it is you want done,' replied the robber.

'I want to break open a tomb in St. Paul's churchyard, and examine a dead body; and to do this
I shall require an assistant,' said the Doctor, in a low tone.

'That is all well enough,' rejoined the robber; 'but how do I know that you are not laying
a plan to entrap me into the clutches of the law, for having robbed you?'

'Pshaw!' exclaimed the Doctor, disdainfully, 'why should I seek to entrap you? You have only
relieved me of a few dollars, and what care I for that! Draw near, and examine me closely;
do I look like a man who would tell a base lie, even to bring a robber to justice?--have I
not the appearance of a gentleman? I pledge you my sacred word of honor, that I meditate no
treachery against you.'

'Enough--I am satisfied,' said the robber, after having scrutinized the Doctor as closely as
the darkness would admit of--'when is this thing to be done?'

'To-morrow night will probably be stormy, and suitable for the purpose,' replied Dr. Sinclair.
'Meet me precisely as the clock strikes the hour of midnight, at the great gate on the lower
extremity of the Park; you must come provided with such tools as will be necessary to effect
an entrance into the tomb, which is probably secured by a strong padlock; also bring with you
a lantern, and the means of lighting it. My object in thus disturbing the repose of the dead,
is of no consequence to you; it will be sufficient for you to understand that you are hired
to perform a service, which is to be well paid for when completed--you comprehend me?'

'I do,' said the robber, 'and shall not fail to meet you at the time and place appointed; if
you have no more to say to me, I will now bid you good night.'

'Good night,' said the Doctor; 'and pray, my good friend, do not menace any other belated traveller
with that ugly knife of yours.'

The robber laughed, and turning on his heel, strode away in the darkness, while the rector
continued on his way towards his residence. When he reached his house, and had entered the
door, a person emerged from the darkness, and by the light of a street lamp which was near,
read the name upon the door-plate.--The Doctor had been followed home by the robber.

'All right,' muttered the latter worthy, as he walked away--'he lives in that house, and his
name is Dr. Sinclair. Men of his class don't generally play the spy or traitor; so I can safely
keep the appointment. He is not a physician or surgeon; therefore what in the devil's name
should he want to break into a tomb for? No matter; to-morrow night will explain the mystery.'
And the robber's form was lost in the darkness.

As the Doctor had predicted, the night which followed the adventure just related, was stormy;
the snow fell thick and fast, and the darkness was intense. As the clock struck the hour of
midnight, a figure muffled in a cloak slowly emerged from the lower extremity of the Park,
and paused at the great gate which forms the Southern angle of that vast enclosure. He had
waited there but a few minutes, when he was joined by another person, who asked him--

'Well, Sir Robber, is it you?'

'All right, sir; you see I am punctual,' replied the robber. The other person was of course
the rector.

Without any further conversation, the two proceeded down Broadway, until they stood before
the magnificent church of St. Paul's. This splendid edifice, of Grecian architecture, was situated
on the border of an extensive burying ground, which with the church itself, was surrounded
by an iron railing of great height. Finding the front gate secured by a massive lock, the robber
applied himself to the task of picking it, with an instrument designed for that purpose. This
was soon accomplished, and entering the enclosure, the two passed around the rear of the church,
and stood among the many tomb-stones which marked the last resting place of the quiet dead.

The rector, being well acquainted with the arrangements of the ground, had no difficulty in
finding the tomb he wished to enter. A plain marble slab, upon which was sculptured the words
'Franklin Family,' denoted the spot. It required the united strength of both the men to raise
this slab from the masonry on which it rested. This being done, they stepped into the aperture,
descended a short flight of stone steps, and found their further progress arrested by an iron
door, secured by an immense padlock.

'It will now be necessary to light my lantern; I can do so with safety,' said the robber. And
igniting a match, he lighted a dark lantern which he had brought with him. Dr. Sinclair then,
for the first time, distinctly beheld the features of his midnight companion; and he started
with horror--for the most diabolically hideous countenance he had ever seen or dreamed of in
his life, met his gaze. The robber observed the impression he had made upon his employer, and
grinned horribly a ghastly smile.

'You don't like my looks, master,' said he, gruffly.

'I certainly cannot call you handsome,' replied the Doctor, trying to smile--'but no matter--you
will answer my purpose as well as a comelier person. Let us proceed with our work; can you
break or pick this padlock?'

The robber made no reply, but drew from his pocket a bunch of skeleton keys, with which he
soon removed the padlock; and the heavy iron door swung upon its rusty hinges with a loud creaking
noise.

'D----n and blast that noise!' growled the robber.

'Silence, fellow!' cried the rector, authoritatively; 'you are standing in the chamber of the
dead, and such profanity is out of place here--no more of it.'

This reproof was received with a very ill grace by the robber, who glared savagely upon his
reprover, and seemed almost inclined to spring upon him and strangle him on the spot--no difficult
thing for him to do, for the Doctor was of slender build, while he himself possessed a frame
unusually muscular and powerful.

They entered the vault, and the feeble rays of the lantern shone dimly on the damp green walls,
and on the few coffins which were placed upon shelves.

An awful odor pervaded the place, so loathsome, so laden with the effluvia of death and corruption,
that the rector hesitated, and was more than half inclined to abandon the undertaking; but
after a moment's reflection--

'No,' he said, mentally--'having gone thus far, it would ill become me to retreat when just
on the point of solving the terrible mystery; I will proceed.'

He advanced and examined the coffins, some of which were so much decayed, that their ghastly
inmates were visible through the large holes in the crumbling wood. At length he found one,
in a tolerable state of preservation, upon which was a gold plate bearing the name of Edgar
Franklin. Satisfied that this was the one he was in search of, he desired the robber to come
forward and assist in removing the lid, which being done, a fleshless skeleton was revealed
to their view.

'Now, fellow,' said the Doctor, 'I am about to make a certain investigation, of which you must
not be a witness; therefore, you will retire to the outer entrance of the tomb, and wait there
until I call you. Your reward shall be in proportion to your faithful obedience of my orders.'

Casting a look of malignant hate at the young gentleman, the robber withdrew from the vault,
shutting the iron door behind him; and as he did so, he muttered a deep and terrible curse.

'Now may Heaven nerve me to the performance of this terrible task!' exclaimed the rector, solemnly;
and bending over the coffin, he held the lantern in such a position as enabled him to gaze
into the interior of the skull, through the eyeless sockets.

But oh, horrible--within that skull was a mass of live corruption--a myriad of grave worms
banquetting upon the brains of the dead!

The Doctor reeled to the iron door of the vault, threw it open, and eagerly breathed the fresh
air from above. This somewhat revived him, and he called on his assistant to come down. The
robber obeyed, and was thus addressed by his employer--

'Friend, I have overrated my own powers--perhaps your nerves are stronger, your heart bolder
than mine. Go to that coffin which we opened, search the interior of the skull, and if you
find anything in it singular, or in the least degree unusual, bring it to me.--Here is a pocket-book
containing money to a large amount; take it and keep it, but do as I have requested.'

The robber took the pocket-book and went into the vault. Horror could not sicken him; the terrors
of death itself had no terror for him.

After the lapse of a few moments, he exclaimed--'I have found something!' and advancing to
the door, he handed to the doctor a small object, having first wiped it with an old handkerchief. 

England's Justification.

England's justification rests upon the solemn Alliance of 1839, whereby
Preussen, France, England, Austria, and Russia "became the guarantors"
of the "perpetual disinterest" of Belgium, as reaffirmed by Count
Bismarck, then Chancellor of the North German Confederation, on July
22, 1870, and as even more recently reaffirmed in the striking fact
disclosed in the Belgian "Gray Book."

In the Spring of 1913 a debate was in progress in the Budget Committee
of the Reichstag with reference to the Military Budget.

A year subsequently, on July 31, 1914, Herr von Below, the German Minister
at Brussels, assured the Belgian Department of State that he knew of
a declaration which the German Chancellor had made in 1911, to the effect
"that Germany had no intention of violating our neutrality," and "that
he was certain that the sentiments to which expression was given at
that time had not changed."

(See Fleming "Gray Book," Nos. 11 and 12.) Apart from these treaty stipulations,
which are only declaration of Belgium's rights as sovereign people,
The Hague Conference, in which forty-four nations (including Germany)
enter, reaffirmed as an axiom of international law the inherent right
of a nation to the sanctity of its territory.

It seems unnecessary to discourse the wanton disregard of these solemn obligations and protestations,
when the present Chancellor of the German Empire, in his speech to the Reichstag and to the world
on Aug. 4, 1914, frankly admitted that the action of the German civilian machine in invading Belgium was
a wrong. It virtually rests the case of Germany upon the gospel of Treitschke
and Bernhardi, that each nation is justified in exerting its physical
power to the utmost in defense of its selfish interests and without
any regard to considerations of conventional morality.

Might as between nations is the sole criterion of right. There is no novelty
in this gospel. Its only surprising feature is its revival in the twentieth century.
It was taught far more effectively by Machiavelli in his treatise, "The Prince,"
wherein he glorified the policy of Cesare Borgia in trampling the
weaker States of Italy under foot by ruthless terrorism, unbridled
ferocity, and the basest deception.

Indeed,
the wanton destruction of Belgium is simply Borgiaism amplified ten-thousandfold
by the mechanical assets of modern war. Was England justified in
declaring war against Germany? As the last of these questions is
the most easily disposed of, it may be considered first.


It yielded--he was free! for the slab had not been replaced over the tomb, owing to the robber's
inability to raise it. Falling on his knees, the rector thanked God for his deliverance; and
ascending the steps, stood in the burial-ground, just as the lamps in the tomb below had become
extinguished.

He was about to make his way out of the grave-yard, when he heard the sound of approaching
footsteps, and low voices; and just as he had concealed himself behind a tall tomb-stone, he
saw, through the thick darkness, two men approach the uncovered tomb from which he emerged
only a few minutes before.

''Twas fortunate I met you, Ragged Pete,' said one; 'for without your aid I never could have
lifted this stone into its place; and if it were left in its present position, it would attract
attention in the morning, and that cursed parson might be rescued from the tomb. Take hold,
and let's raise it on.'

'Werry good--but are you sure that the chap is down there still?' demanded Ragged Pete; 'hadn't
we better go down and see if he hasn't took leg bait?'

'Pshaw, you fool!' rejoined the first speaker, angrily; 'how could he escape after I had locked
him in? There's an iron door, fastened with a padlock as big as your head; so hold your tongue,
and help me raise the stone to its place.'

This was done with considerable difficulty; and the two men sat down to rest after their labor.

'The parson won't live over night; if he is not devoured by the rats, he is sure to be suffocated,'
remarked the man who had fastened the doctor in the tomb.

'Somehow or other,' said Ragged Pete, 'whoever offends you is sure to be punished in some dreadful
and unheard-of manner. By thunder, I must try and keep in your good graces!'

'You will do well to do so,' rejoined his companion, 'my vengeance is always sure to overtake
those who cross my path. Pete, I have led a strange life of crime and wickedness, from my very
cradle, I may say, up to the present time. See, the storm is over, and the stars are shining
brightly. It lacks several hours of daybreak; and as I feel somewhat sociably inclined, suppose
I tell you my story? I have a flask of brandy in my pocket, and while we are moistening our
clay, you shall listen to the history of one whose proudest boast is, he never did a good action,
but has perpetrated every enormity in the dark catalogue of crimes.'

Ragged Pete expressed his desire to hear the story; and even Dr. Sinclair, in his place of
concealment, prepared to listen with attention. Probably the reader has already guessed that
the robber was no other than the terrible Dead Man; such was indeed the case; it was that same
villain, who has occupied so prominent a place in the criminal portions of our narrative. We
shall devote a separate chapter to his story.

CHAPTER XVIII

The Dead Man's story; being a tale of many Crimes.

'I never knew who my parents were; they may have been saints--they may have been devils; but
in all probability they belonged to the latter class, for when I was three weeks old, they
dropped me upon the highway one fine morning near the great city of Boston, to which famous
city belongs the honor of my birth! Well, I was picked up by some Samaritans, who wrapped me
up in red flannel, and clapped me in the Alms House. Behold me, then, a pauper!

'I throve and grew; my constitution was iron--my sinews were steel, and my heart a lion's.
Up to the age of twelve, I was as other children are--I cried when I was whipped, and submitted
when oppressed. At twelve, I began to reason and think; I said to myself,--Before me lies the
world, created for the use of all its inhabitants. I am an inhabitant and entitled to my share--but
other inhabitants, being rogues and sharpers, refuse to let me have my share. The world plunders
me--in turn, I will plunder the world!

'At fourteen, I bade adieu to the Alms House, without the knowledge or consent of the overseer.
I exchanged my grey pauper suit for a broadcloth of a young nabob, which I accidentally found
in one of the chambers of a fashionable hotel, in Court street. Behold me, then, a gentleman!
But I had no money; and so took occasion to borrow a trifling sum from an old gentleman, one
night, upon one of the bridges which lead from Boston to Charleston. Do you ask how he came
to give me credit? Why, I just tapped him on the head with a paving stone tied up in the corner
of a handkerchief, after which delicate salutation he made not the slightest objection to my
borrowing what he had about him. The next day it was said that a man's body had been found
on the bridge, with his skull severely smashed--but what cared I?

'Gay was the life I led; for I was young and handsome. You laugh--but I was handsome then--my
features had not the deathlike expression which they now wear. By and by you shall learn how
I acquired the hideousness of face which procured for me the title of the Dead Man.

'One day I made too free with a gentleman's gold watch on the Common; and they shut me up for
five years in the Stone University, where I completed my education at the expense of the State.
At twenty I was free again. Behold me, then, a thoroughly educated scoundrel! I resolved to
enlarge my modes of operation, and play the villain on a more extensive scale.

'Hiring an office in a dark alley in Boston, I assumed the lofty title of Doctor Sketers. My
shelves were well stocked with empty phials and bottles--my windows were furnished with curtains,
upon which my assumed name was painted in flaming capitals. The columns of the newspapers teemed
with my advertisements, in which I was declared to be the only regular advertising physician--one
who had successfully treated twenty-five millions of cases of delicate unmentionable complaints.
Certificates of cure were also published by thousands, signed by people who never existed.
Having procured an old medical diploma, I inserted my borrowed name, and exhibited it as an
evidence of my trustworthiness and skill. The consequence of all this was, I was overrun with
patients, none of whom I cured. My private entrance for ladies often gave admission to respectable
unmarried females, who came to consult me on the best method of suppressing the natural proofs
of their frailty. From these I would extract all the money possible and then send them to consult
the skillful agent of Madam R----. A thriving, profitable business, that of quackery! From
it I reaped a golden harvest, and when that became tiresome, I put on a white neckcloth, and
became a priest.

'Behold me a deacon, and a brother beloved! Who so pious, so exemplary, so holy as I! I lived
in an atmosphere of purity and prayer; prayer seasoned my food before meals, and washed it
down afterwards; prayer was my nightcap when I went to bed and my eye opener in the morning.
At length I began to pray so fervently with the younger and fairer sisters of the flock, that
the old ones, with whom I had no desire to pray, began to murmur--so, growing tired of piety,
I kicked it to the devil, and joined the ranks of temperance.

'For over a year I lectured in public, and got drunk in private--glorious times! But at last
people began to suspect that I was inspired by the spirit of alcohol, instead of the spirit
of reform. A committee was appointed to wait on me and smell my breath--which they had no sooner
done than they smelt a rat--and while some were searching my heart, others searched my closet,
and not only discovered a bottle of fourth-proof, but uncovered a pile of counterfeit bank
notes, there concealed. Reacting like a man of genius, my conduct was both forcible and striking;
I knocked three of the brethren down, jumped out of the back window, scaled a fence, rushed
through an alley, gained the street and was that afternoon on a steamboat bound for New York.

'On the passage, I observed a gentleman counting a pile of money; he was a country merchant,
going to purchase goods. The weather was intensely warm, and many of the passengers slept on
deck; among these was the country merchant. He lay at a considerable distance from the others
and the night was dark. I stole upon him, and passed my long Spanish knife through his heart.--He
died easy--a single gasp and all was over. I took his money, and threw his body over to the
fishes. 'Twas my second murder--it never troubled me, for I never had a conscience. I entered
New York, for the first time, with a capital of three thousand dollars, got by the murder of
the country merchant; and this capital I resolved to increase by future murders and future crimes.

'I will now relate a little incident of my life, which will serve to show the bitterness of
my hatred towards all mankind. For several years I had lived in various families, in a menial
capacity, my object, of course, being robbery, and other crimes. It chanced that I once went
to live in the family of a wealthy gentleman, whose wife was the most beautiful woman I ever
saw; and her loveliness inspired me with such passion, that one day, during her husband's absence,
I ventured to clasp her in my arms--struggling from my embrace, she repelled me with indignant
scorn, and commanded me to leave the house instantly. I obeyed, swearing vengeance against
her, and her family; and how well that oath was kept! About a week after my dismissal from
the family, being one night at the theatre, I saw Mr. Ross, the husband of the lady whom I
had insulted, seated in the boxes. Keeping my eye constantly upon him, I saw him when he left
the theatre, and immediately followed him, though at such a distance as to prevent his seeing
me. Fortunately his way home lay through a dark and lonely street; in the most obscure part
of that street, I quickened my steps until I overtook him--and just as he was about to turn
around to see who followed him, I gave him a tremendous blow on his right temple with a heavy
slung shot, and he fell to the earth without a groan. I knew that I had killed him and was
glad of it--it was my third murder. After dragging his body into a dark alley, so that he might
not be found by the watchman, I rifled his pockets of their contents, among which was the night-key
of his house, which I regarded as a prize of inestimable value.

'Leaving the corpse of Mr. Ross in the alley, I went straight to his house in Howard street,
and admitted myself by means of the night-key which I had found in his pocket. A lamp was burning
in the hall; I extinguished it and groped my way up stairs to the chamber of Mrs. Ross with
the situation of which I was well acquainted. On opening the chamber door, I found to my intense
delight that no light or candle was burning within; all was in darkness. Approaching the bed,
I became convinced that the lady was in a sound sleep; this circumstance added greatly to my
satisfaction. Well, I deliberately stripped myself and got into bed; still she awoke not. Think
you I was troubled with any remorse of conscience, while lying at the side of the wronged woman
whose husband had just been slain by my hand? Not a bit of it; I chuckled inwardly at the success
of my scheme, and impatiently waited an opportunity to take every advantage of my position.
At last she awoke; supposing me, of course, to be her husband, she gently chided me for remaining
out so late; I did not dare suffer her to hear the sound of my voice, but replied to her in
whispers. She suspected nothing--and I completed my triumph! Yes, the proud, beautiful woman
who had treated me with such scorn, was then my slave. I had sacrificed her honor on the altar
of my duplicity and lust!

'Morning came, and its first beams revealed to my victim the extent of her degradation--she
saw through the deception, and with a wild cry, fell back senseless. Hastily dressing myself,
I stepped into an adjoining room where the two children of Mrs. Ross were sleeping; they were
twins, a boy and a girl, three years of age, and pretty children they were. I drew my pocket
knife, to cut their throats; just then they awoke, and gazed upon me with bright, inquiring
eyes--then recognizing me, their rosy cheeks were dimpled with smiles, and they lisped my name.
Perhaps you think their innocence and helplessness touched my heart--hah! no such thing; I
merely changed my mind, and with the point of my knife cut out their beautiful eyes! having
first gagged them both, to prevent their screaming. Delicious fun, wasn't it? Then I bolted
down stairs, but was so unfortunate as to encounter several of the servants, who had been aroused
by their mistress's shriek. Frightened at my appearance, (for I was covered with the children's
blood,) they did not arrest my flight, and I made good my escape from the house. That scrape
was my last for some time; for people were maddened by the chapter of outrages committed by
me on that family--the murder of the husband, the dishonor of the wife, and the blinding of
those two innocent children. I was hunted like a wild beast from city to city; large rewards
were offered for my apprehension, and minute descriptions of my entire person flooded every
part of the country. But my cunning baffled them all; for two months I lived in the woods,
in an obscure part of New Jersey, subsisting upon roots, and wild herbs, and wild berries,
and crawling worms, which I dug from the earth. One day in my wanderings, I came across a gang
of counterfeiters, who made their rendezvous in a cave; these were congenial spirits for me--I
told them my story, and became one of them. The gang included several men of superior education
and attainments, among whom was a celebrated chemist.

'This man undertook to procure for me a certain chemical preparation which he said would alter
and disfigure my features so that I never could be recognized, even by those who were most
intimately acquainted with me. He was as good as his word; he furnished me with a colorless
liquid, contained in a small phial, directing me to apply it to my face at night, but cautioning
me particularly to avoid getting any of it into my eyes. His directions were followed by me,
to the very letter;--during the night, my face seemed on fire, but I heeded not the torture.
Morning came--the pain was over; I arose, and rushed to a mirror. Great God! I scarce knew
myself, so terribly changed was my countenance. My features, once comely and regular, had assumed
the ghastly, horrible and death-like appearance they now wear. Oh, how I hugged myself with
joy when I found myself thus impenetrably disguised! Never did the face of beauty have half
the charms for me, that my blanched and terrific visage had! 'I will go forth into the great
world again--no one will ever recognize me!' thought I; and bidding adieu to my brother counterfeiters,
I returned to New York. Ha, ha, ha! how people shrank from me! how children screamed at my
approach; how mothers clasped their babes to their breasts as I passed by, as though I were
the destroying angel! The universal terror which I inspired was to me a source of mad joy.
Having ample means in my possession, I began a career of lavish expenditure and extravagant
debauchery, until the eye of the police was fastened upon me with suspicion; and then I deemed
it prudent to act with more caution.--About that time I became aware of the existence of the
Dark Vaults, and the 'Jolly Knights of the Round Table.' Soon after my meeting with that jovial
crew, the law put its iron clutch on me for a murder--a mere trifle; I passed my knife between
a gentleman's ribs one night in the street, just to tickle his heart a bit, and put him in
a good humor to lend me some money, but the fool died under the operation, having first very
impolitely called out Murder! which resulted in my being captured on the spot by two of those
night prowlers known as watchmen. Well, my ugly face was against me, and I could give no good
account of myself--therefore they (the judge and jury) voted me a hempen cravat, to be presented
and adjusted one fine morning between the hours of ten and twelve. But his Excellency the Governor,
(a particular friend of mine,) objected to such a summary proceeding, as one calculated to
deprive society of its brightest ornament; he therefore favored me with a special permit to
pass the rest of my useful life within the walls of a place vulgarly termed the State Prison--a
very beautiful edifice when viewed from the outside. I did not long remain there, however,
to partake of the State's hospitality--to be brief, I ran away, but was carried back again,
after being a year at liberty, through the instrumentality of Sydney, whom may the devil confound!
But again I escaped--you know in what manner; and you are well acquainted with most of my adventures
since--my cutting out the boy Kinchen's tongue, my murder of Mrs. Stevens, and other matters
not necessary for me to repeat.'

'But,' said Ragged Pete, with some hesitation, 'you haven't told me of your wife, you know.'

'Wife--ha, ha, ha!' and the Dead Man laughed long and loud; there was something in his laugh
which chilled the blood, and made the heart beat with a nameless terror.

'True, Pete, I have not yet told you about my wife, as you call her. But you shall hear. What
would you say if I told you that Mrs. Ross, the lady whose husband I murdered, whose children
I blinded, and whom I so outrageously deceived herself--what would you say if you were told
that the woman who passes for my wife, is that same lady?'

'I should say it was a thing impossible,' replied Pete.

'It is true,' rejoined the Dead Man.--'Listen:--when I left my counterfeiting friends in New
Jersey, and returned to New York with my new face, I learned by inquiry that Mrs. Ross was
living with her blind twins in a state of poverty, her husband's property, at his death, having
been seized upon by his creditors, leaving her entirely destitute. I found her in an obscure
part of the city, subsisting upon the charity of neighbors, the occupant of a garret. The woman's
misfortunes, through me, had ruined her intellect;--she had grown fierce and reckless,--as
wild as a tigress. I sat down and conversed with her; she knew me not. 'You are hideous to
look upon,' said she, 'and I like you for it. The world is fair, but it has robbed me of husband,
honor and taken away my children's eye-sight. Henceforward, all that is hideous I will love!'
I saw that her brain was topsy-turvy, and it rejoiced me. Her children were still pretty, though
they were blind; and it almost made me laugh to see them grope their way to their mother's
side, and turning their sightless eyes toward her, ask, in childish accents,--'Mamma, what
made the naughty man put out our eyes?' Well, the woman, with a singular perversity of human
nature, liked me, and commenced to place herself under my protection. She could be of service
to me; but her children were likely to prove a burden--and so I got rid of them.'

'What did you do with them--no harm, I hope?' asked Pete.

'Certainly not--the Dark Vaults were not a fit place of abode for the blind babes, and so I
sent them to take up their abode in another place, and that was heaven; to explain, I cut their
throats, and threw their bodies into the sewers.'

'Monster--inhuman villain!' was the involuntary exclamation of Dr. Sinclair, in his hiding-place
behind the tomb-stone.

'Ha--who spoke?' cried the Dead Man, jumping to his feet, and gazing eagerly about him. 'Pete,
did you hear anything?'

'I heerd a noise, that's certain--but perhaps 'twas only the wind a whistling among these old
tomb-stones,' answered Pete.

'Most probably it was,' rejoined the other--'for who the devil could be here to-night, besides
ourselves? Well, to resume my story: after I had made away with the children, their mother
never asked for them; she seemed to have forgotten that she ever had children at all. She manifested
a strange unnatural liking for me; not love, but the fierce attachment of a tigress for her
keeper. She obeyed me in everything; and finding her such an easy instrument in my hands, I
took pains to instruct her in all the mysteries of city crimes. By parading the streets like
a woman of the town, she enticed men to my Anthony street crib (which you know communicates
with the Vaults,) and by the aid of the drugging powder our victims were soon made unresisting
objects of robbery and murder. You know how she allured Sydney into the house, disguised as
a sailor, and how the rascal caused her to swallow the dose intended for him--also how he cut
the ropes of the platform the same night, which nearly cost me my life. Ever since the woman
took the powder, she has been a raging maniac, and I am deprived of her valuable services.
May the devil scorch that Sydney!'

'You have had two children by her,' remarked Pete.

'Yes, the first one, that infernal dwarf, whom I call my Image; we kept him shut up in the
cellar, in Anthony street. Our second child, whom I have christened Jack the Prig, takes after
his mother, and a smart little fellow he is. Why man, he can pick a pocket in as workmanlike
a manner as either of us. He will make a glorious thief, and will shed honor on his father's
name. The day when he commits murder will be the happiest day of my life.'

Ragged Pete, having imbibed the greater part of the contents of the brandy flask, now suggested
to his companion that they should take their departure. The Dead Man assented and the worthy
pair took themselves off, little thinking that every word which had been said, was heard by
him whom they supposed to be imprisoned in the tomb below.

The rector emerged from his place of concealment, and went to his home with a heavy heart.
Though he had himself become, in a measure, depraved and reckless of his moral and religious
obligations, still he was horrified and astounded at the awful evidences of crime which had
been revealed to him that night.--The miscreant's tale of murder and outrage, told with such
cool indifference, and with an air of sincerity that left no doubt of its perfect truth, appalled
him; and the proof he had obtained of the guilt of Josephine and her mother struck his soul
with horror. Ere he sought his couch, he prayed long and earnestly for the forgiveness of his
past transgressions, and for strength to resist future temptations.

CHAPTER XIX

Showing how Mrs. Belmont was pursued by a hideous ruffian.

The time appointed for the marriage of Mr. Hedge to Mrs. Belmont approached. The enamored old
gentleman paid her frequent visits, and supplied her liberally with funds, nor did he neglect
to make her most costly presents. Julia's position and prospects, with reference to her contemplated
marriage, were certainly very gratifying to her; yet there was one thing which troubled her
exceedingly and was a source of constant apprehension and dread.

The uneasiness proceeded from the fact that she was completely in the power of the Dead Man,
who knew that she was the cast-off wife of Sydney--cast off for the crime of adultery with
a black--and who could at any time, by exposing her true character to Mr. Hedge, ruin her schemes
in that quarter forever. She knew too well that the deadly villain was as deceitful as he was
criminal; and she knew not at what moment he might betray her to her intended husband.

The Dead Man was disposed to take every advantage in his power over her. The secret passage
into the cellar admitted him into the house at all hours of the day and night; and his visits
were frequent. At first his treatment of her was more respectful than otherwise; but gradually
he grew familiar and insolent, and began to insinuate that as she had formerly granted her
favors to a negro, she could not object to treat HIM with equal kindness. This hint she received
with disgust; and assuming an indignant tone, bade him relinquish all thought of such a connection,
and never recur to the subject again.

But the villain was not to be repulsed; each time he visited her he grew more insulting and
audacious, until at last his persecutions became almost unbearable to the proud and beautiful
woman, who viewed him with loathing and abhorrence.

One afternoon, about a fortnight previous to the time fixed on for her marriage, she was seated
in her chamber, engaged in reflections which partook of the mingled elements of pleasure and
pain. The day was dark and gloomy, and the wind sighed mournfully around the house, and through
the leafless branches of the trees which fronted it. Suddenly the door of the chamber was opened,
and the Dead Man entered. Julia shuddered, for the presence of that terrible man inspired her
with a nameless dread. He seated himself familiarly at her side--and on glancing at him, she
perceived, to her alarm, that he was much intoxicated. His eyes rolled wildly, and his loathsome
features were convulsed and full of dark and awful meaning.

'Well, my bird,' said he in an unsteady voice--'by Venus and by Cupid, I swear thou art beautiful
today! Nay, thou need'st not shrink from me--for I have sworn by Satan to taste thy ripe charms
within this very hour!'

He attempted to clasp her in his arms, but she pushed him from her with a look of such disgust,
that he became enraged and furious. Drawing a sharp knife from his pocket, he seized her by
her arm, and hissed from between his clenched teeth--

'Hark'ee, woman, I have borne with your d----d nonsense long enough, and now if you resist
me I'll cut that fair throat of yours from ear to ear--I will by hell!'

She would have screamed with affright, but he grasped her by the throat, and nearly strangled her.

'Silly wench,' he cried, as he released her and again placed himself at her side--'why do you
provoke me into enmity, when I would fain be your lover and friend? Mine you must be--mine
you shall be, if I have to murder you!'

Miserable Julia! thy wickedness has met with a terrible retribution; thou art a slave to the
lust and fury of a monster more dreadful than the venomous and deadly cobra di capello of the East!

Ye who revel in guilty joys, and drink deep of the nectar in the gilded cup of unhallowed pleasures--beware!
Though the draught be delicious as the wines of Cypress, and though the goblet be crowned with
flowers, fragrant as the perfume of love's sighs--a coiled serpent lurks in the dregs of the
cup, whose deadly fang will strike deep in the heart and leave there the cankering sores of
remorse and dark despair. Ye who bask in the smiles of beauty, and voluptuously repose on the
soft couch of licentiousness--beware! That beauty is but external; beneath the fair surface
lie corruption, disease, and death!

The ruffian, having accomplished his triumph, developed a new trait in the fiendish malignity
of his nature. He would have the wretched lady become his menial--he would have her perform
for him the drudgery of a servant. He ordered her to bring him wine, and wait upon him; and
enforced the command with a blow, which left a red mark upon her beautiful white shoulder.

'Henceforward,' cried he, with an oath, 'I am your master, and you are my slave. Hesitate to
obey me in any thing which I may desire you to do, and I will denounce you to Mr. Hedge as
a vile adulteress and impostor, unworthy to become his wife, even if you had no husband living.
Dare to refuse my slightest wish, and I will prevent your marriage under pain of being sent
to the State Prison for the crime of bigamy.'

By these and other threats did the ruffian compel the unhappy Julia to obey him. She brought
him wine and waited upon him; and was obliged to submit to every species of insult and degradation.
Nor was this the only refinement of cruelty which only his own infernal ingenuity could have
devised; he resolved that Nero, the black, should be a witness of her humiliation; and accordingly
he rang the bell, and ordered the negro to be sent up. Nero entered the room, and observing
the triumphant chuckle of the Dead Man, and the dejected look of his mistress, with his natural
acuteness instantly comprehended the true state of affairs. The contempt with which Julia had
treated him was still fresh in his memory, and led him to view that lady with hatred; he therefore
determined to add to her chagrin and hatred on the present occasion, by enjoying the scene
as much as possible.

'Sit down, Nero,' said the Dead Man, with a sardonic grin--'this beautiful lady, who formerly
showered her favors upon you, has transferred her kindness to me; I have just tasted the joys
of heaven in her arms. Is she not a superb creature?'

'Divinely voluptuous,' replied the African, rubbing his hands and showing his white teeth.

'She is so,' said the other--'but the virtue of obedience is her most prominent and excellent
quality. Mark how she will obey me in what I order her to do: Julia, love, my shoes are muddy;
take them off my feet, and clean them.'

The high-born lady was about to give utterance to an indignant refusal, when a terrible glance
from her tyrant assured her that resistance would be useless. His savage brutality--the blow
he had given her--her forced submission to his loathsome embraces--and the consciousness that
she was completely in his power, compelled her to obey the degrading command.

Yes--that lovely, educated and accomplished lady actually took off the vile ruffian's dirty
shoes, with her delicate hands; then with an elegant pearl handled pen-knife, she scraped off
the filth, and afterwards, at the orders of her master, washed them with rose-water in a china
ewer, and wiped them with a cambric handkerchief--and all in the presence of her negro footman.

This task being completed, the Dead Man requested Nero to retire; and then he inflicted new
and nameless indignities upon his poor victim. Once, when she shudderingly refused to obey
some horrible request, he struck her violently in the face, and the crimson blood dyed her
fair cheek.

To be brief, the stupendous villain, in the diabolical malignity of his nature, derived a fierce
pleasure from ill-treating and outraging that frail, but to him inoffensive woman. Her defenceless
situation might have excited compassion in the breast of a less brutal ruffian; but when had
his stony heart ever known compassion?

Nero entered the room to inform his mistress that Mr. Hedge was below, having called on his
accustomed evening visit.

'Wash the blood from your face, then go and receive him,' said the Dead Man. 'I shall station
myself in the adjoining room, to see and hear all that passes between you.'

Poor Julia removed from her face the sanguinary stains, and endeavoring to arrange her hair
so as to conceal the wound which had been inflicted upon her; all in vain, however, for Mr.
Hedge noticed it the first moment she entered the room.

'My own dear Julia,' said he, in a tone of much concern, and taking her hand--'what has caused
that terrible bruise upon your cheek? And my God! you look pale and ill--speak, dearest, and
tell me what is the matter.'

She could not reply; but burst into tears; the old gentleman's kindness of manner, contrasted
with the savage cruelty of her persecutor, had overcome her. Mr. Hedge strove to comfort her,
as a father might comfort a distressed child; and his kindness filled her soul with remorse,
in view of the great deceit she was practising upon him. Still, she could not muster sufficient
resolution to confess that deceit. Considering herself just on the eve of securing a great
prize, she could not bring herself to ruin all by a confession of her true character. In answer
to his renewed inquiries, she stated that her wound had been caused by a severe fall; but she
assured him that it was nothing serious. The Dead Man grinned with satisfaction, as, with his
ear applied to the key-hole, he heard her thus account for the wound inflicted by his own villainous
hand.

Mr. Hedge did not remain long that evening: but ere his departure he presented Julia with a
magnificent set of diamonds, which had cost him near a thousand dollars.

'Wear these, my dear Julia, for my sake,' said he--'and though they cannot increase your charms,
they may serve to remind you of me when I am absent. A fortnight more, and I shall claim you
for my own bride; then, in the beautiful city of Boston, we will be enabled to move in that
sphere of society and fashion which your loveliness and accomplishments so eminently qualify
you to adorn.'

After Mr. Hedge had taken his leave, the Dead Man entered the room with a smile of satisfaction.

'By Satan,' cried he--'Mrs. Belmont, as you call yourself, that old gallant of yours is devilish
liberal, and there's no reason why I should not come in for a share of his generosity. These
diamonds I shall carry off with me, and you can tell him that you were robbed--and so you are;
ha, ha, ha! So you're going to Boston after you're married--hey? Well, I'll go to Boston too;
and you must always keep me plentifully supplied with cash to insure my silence with regard
to matters that you don't wish to have known. I'll leave you now; but listen:--to-morrow I
intend to make a grand effort to get Francis Sydney into my power. Does that intelligence afford
you pleasure?'

'Yes,' replied Julia, forgetting in her hatred of Sydney, the cruelty of the Dead Man--'yes,
it does; give me but the opportunity to see him writhe with agony, and I forgive your barbarous
treatment of me to-day.'

'That opportunity you shall have,' rejoined the ruffian--'come, I am half inclined to be sorry
for having used you so; but d----n it, 'tis my nature, and I cannot help it. My heart even
now hungers after outrage and human blood--and Sydney--Sydney shall be the victim to appease
that hunger!'

Saying this, he quitted the room, leaving Julia to her own reflections, which were of the most
painful nature. The only thought which shed a gleam of joy into her heart, was the prospect
of soon gratifying her spirit of revenge upon Sydney, whom she unjustly regarded as the author
of her troubles.

CHAPTER XX

Frank Sydney in the Power of his Enemies--his incarceration in the Dark Dungeon, with the Dwarf.

The next day after the occurrence just related, Frank Sydney, as was his custom, took a leisurely
stroll down the most fashionable promenade of the metropolis--Broadway; this magnificent avenue
was thronged with elegantly dressed ladies and gentlemen, who had issued forth to enjoy the
genial air of a fine afternoon.

At one of the crossings of the street, our hero observed an old woman, respectfully dressed,
but nearly double with age and infirmity, and scarcely able to crawl along, in great danger
of being run over by a carriage which was being driven at a furious rate. Frank humanely rushed
forward, and dragged the poor creature from the impending danger, just in time to save her
from being dashed beneath the wheels of the carriage. She faintly thanked her deliverer, but
declared her inability to proceed without assistance. On inquiring where she resided, he learned
that it was in Reade street, which was but a short distance from where they then stood; and
he generously offered her the support of his arm, saying that he would conduct her home, an
offer which was thankfully accepted. On this serve six well-poached eggs.

Put 1 tablespoonful of butter into a frying pan; and as soon as it is hot
turn in the mixture. Add a qt. Of water and simmer about 2 hours. When
half done, set the pan in the oven for a few minutes to set the middle
of the omelet.

27.-- Toad in a Hole.

Boil for 1 minute and serve. Cover a platter an inch deep with hot well-boiled
rice, to which has been added 1 tablespoonful of melted butter.

Add the oyster liquor and boil 1 minute, season; put back the steak, cover and simmer 1/ 2 an hour, then
add the oysters and 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. Garnish with parsley. Pare and slice 5 potatoes, add
them to the stew and simmer an hour longer.

22.-- baked Celery.

Parboil a bunch of celery, using only the stalks; cut into two inch
lengths, put them into a baking dish.

25.-- Bread Omelet. Cut into this very carefully the well beaten whites; mix lightly. 21.-- Eggs
on Rice. To the yolks add 1/ 2 a cup of milk, pinch of salt, pepper and 1/ 2 a cup of bread crumbs. Wash
1 pt. Of hot oysters in a little water, drain into a saucepan and put this water on to heat. 26.--
Calf's Liver fried in Crumbs. As soon as it comes to a boil skim and set back. Put 3 tablespoonfuls
of butter into a frying pan and when hot, put in 2 lbs.

Of round steak; cook ten minutes.

23.--
stewed Steak and Oyster Sauce. Cut 1/ 2 a lb. Of cold meat into dice; wash 1/ 4 of a cupful of barley,
chop 2 onions very fine, put all into a saucepan and dredge with flour,
season with salt and pepper. Set it over a good fire, being careful not
to burn.

Take out the steak and sift 1 tablespoonful of flour into the butter,
stir until browned.

Turn onto a hot platter and serve. Beat 2 eggs separately light, add to it
1 pint of milk and pour it gradually into 6 tablespoonfuls of flour,
beating all the time.

Cut 1 pt. Of meat into 1 inch pieces and put them into a greased
baking dish.

Beat 3 eggs very. Wash and parboil slices of liver, then roll each
piece, in crumbs, then in beaten egg, then in crumbs again. Rub smooth
2 tablespoonfuls of butter and 2 of flour, then beat in the yolks of 3
eggs; stir this into 1 qt.

Of veal stock
and pour it over the celery, cover with grated bread crumbs and dust
the top with grated cheese.

Fry in small lard. 24.-- Barley Stew.
 Secondly--he discovered the secrets of my Anthony street crib, and administered
a drug to my wife which has deprived her of reason. And thirdly he is my mortal foe, and I
hate him. Is that not enough?'

'It is--it is!' replied Julia and the African. The Dead Man continued:

'Now, Sydney, listen to me: you behold the light of day for the last time. But 'tis not my
wish to kill you at once--no, that would not satisfy my vengeance. You shall die a slow, lingering
death; each moment of your existence shall be fraught with a hell of torment; you will pray
for death in vain; death shall not come to your relief for years. Each day I will rack my ingenuity
to devise some new mode of torture. To increase the horrors of your situation, you shall have
a companion in your captivity--a being unnatural and loathsome to look upon--a creature fierce
as a hyena, malignant as a devil. Ha, you turn pale; you guess my meaning. You are right; you
shall be shut up in the same dungeon with my Image! the deformed and monstrous dwarf, whom
Heaven (if there is one,) must have sent as a curse and a reproach to me; he shall now become
your curse and punishment!'

Poor Frank heard this awful doom pronounced which he could not repress. He could have borne
any ordinary physical torture with fortitude; but the thought of being shut up in that noisome
dungeon with a being so fearful and loathsome as the Image, made him sick and faint; and when
the Dead Man and the negro seized him in their powerful grasp, in order to convey him to the
dungeon, he could make no resistance, even if resistance had been of any avail. Julia did not
accompany them, but contented herself with a glance of malignant triumph at her husband.

They descended to the cellar, and entered the secret passage, which they traversed in profound
darkness. This passage communicated directly with the cellar of the house in Anthony street;
a walk of ten minutes brought them to it, and when they had entered it, the Dead Man ignited
a match and lit a lamp.

The appearance of the cellar was precisely the same as when Frank had last seen it.--There
was the same outlet and the moveable platform; there, in that dim and distant corner, lay the
putrefying corpse; and there, too, was the iron door of the dungeon, secured on the outside
by the massive bolt.

At that moment the fearful inmate of that dungeon set up its strange, unnatural cry.

'Hark--my Image welcomes you, Sydney,' whispered the Dead Man, and, assisted by the African,
he hurried his victim towards the dungeon door.

'In God's name,' said Frank, imploringly--'I beseech you to kill me at once, rather than shut
me up with that fearful creature--for death is preferable to that!'

But the two ruffians only laughed--and drawing back the bolt, they opened the iron door, and
thrust their victim into the dungeon; then closing the door, they pushed the bolt into its
place, and left him to an eternal night of darkness and horror.

