Not many decades ago preachers used death as their most telling plea for sinners to be converted.
The tragic death of a "sinner" in a community where evangelistic services were being held was
always held up as the special warning of God. The crude way in which this truth was presented
does not, however, disturb the fundamental fact that death does have a sobering effect on human
judgment and human will, and that in the presence of death souls do more naturally seek after
and find God.

A private of Company I, 165th Infantry, was in Base Hospital No. 117 suffering from shell-shock.
He said: "There were only seven of my company left. We killed our share of the Huns before
they got us, but the slaughter was awful. To see all your comrades shot down around you and
then to lie helpless on the field--minutes seemed ages. And decisions were registered in heaven
which we can never get away from." This boy had been gay and frivolous at home, with two automobiles
at his command and plenty of money to use as he wished. He had never been forced to the serious
consideration of the problems of his soul-life until he squarely faced those problems on the
field of carnage.

I was asked to speak at the Y.M.C.A. hut at Rebeval Barracks, where a veterinary hospital occupies
the same inclosure as Base Hospital No. 66. My audience was made up largely of East Side New
Yorkers. The secretary, Stuart, of Jamaica, said to me before the meeting: "Give them the straight
punch. You know how." He led the song service and put plenty of "pep" in it. All the boys were
singing who could. The rest were "hollering" and thought they were singing. Even the French
soldiers and civilians who could not understand stood at the windows interested spectators.
The message was a straight-from-the-shoulder presentation of the life of Jesus Christ and the
claims of God upon the lives of all men. Their keen and close interest showed their respect
and their spontaneous applause at the close was proof that the message had at least registered.
Now, no one is so foolish as to believe that those "rough horsemen" went out from that meeting
to give up all their bad habits, but no one will dare deny that their expression of approval
and appreciation was an acknowledgment of Christ himself and that they were for the time at
least better men. 

But this building jar in the corn was useless, because it had been prevented from the work in the world
for its wheat which could not grow. Away so was it with the distant copies of God's Word. For thousands
of years it had lain thither, locked up in the language of which it was created. Shut up in the
dead, while out in the fields the maize which had been sown had grown
up and been reaped every year, they were like the jar, kept hebrew,
just from the world, and men and women had been fed.

 It was Sunday evening. Song books were distributed. The mandolin
player volunteered to "pitch the tune." Three or four hymns suggested by the fellows were sung
heartily. A brief petition asked for forgiveness and blessings on the boys who with undaunted
courage would soon go into action. A few verses of Scripture served to introduce the message
of the hour. Quietly but earnestly the practical side of a man's religion was presented. The
card game, which up to this time proceeded without disturbance, was now voluntarily abandoned
and the players' attention riveted on the speaker. When it was over they quietly returned to
their game, more thoughtful, because they had themselves chosen to hear the truth.

