The bottle rules the sensual world, but the tea-cup is queen in all the fair dominions. Once
this leaf was very rare, and fifty dollars a pound; and when the East India Company made a
present to the king of two pounds and two ounces, it was considered worth a mark in history.
But now Uncle Sam and his wife every year pour thirty million pounds of it into their saucers.
Twelve hundred years ago, a Chinese scholar by the name of Lo Yu wrote of tea, "It tempers
the spirits and harmonizes the mind, dispels lassitude and relieves fatigue, awakens thought
and prevents drowsiness, lightens and refreshes the body, and clears the perceptive faculties."
Our own observation is that there is nothing that so loosens the hinge of the tongue, soothes
the temper, exhilarates the diaphragm, kindles sociality and makes the future promising. Like
one of the small glasses in the wall of Barnum's old museum, through which you could see cities
and mountains bathed in sunshine, so, as you drink from the tea-cup, and get on toward the
bottom so that it is sufficiently elevated, you can see almost anything glorious that you want
to. We had a great-aunt who used to come from town with the pockets of her bombazine dress
standing way out with nice things for the children, but she would come in looking black as
a thunder cloud until she had got through with her first cup of tea, when she would empty her
right pocket of sugarplums, and having finished her second cup would empty the other pocket,
and after she had taken an extra third cup, because she felt so very chilly, it took all the
sitting-room and parlor and kitchen to contain her exhilaration.

Be not surprised if, after your friends are seated at the table, the style of the conversation
depends very much on the kind of tea that the housewife pours for the guests. If it be genuine
Young Hyson, the leaves of which are gathered early in the season, the talk will be fresh,
and spirited, and sunshiny. If it be what the Chinese call Pearl tea, but our merchants have
named Gunpowder, the conversation will be explosive, and somebody's reputation will be killed
before you get through. If it be green tea, prepared by large infusion of Prussian blue and
gypsum, or black tea mixed with pulverized black lead, you may expect there will be a poisonous
effect in the conversation and the moral health damaged. The English Parliament found that
there had come into that country two million pounds of what the merchants call "lie tea," and,
as far as I can estimate, about the same amount has been imported into the United States; and
when the housewife pours into the cups of her guests a decoction of this "lie tea," the group
are sure to fall to talking about their neighbors, and misrepresenting everything they touch.
One meeting of a "sewing society" up in Canada, where this tea was served, resulted in two
law-suits for slander, four black eyes that were not originally of that color, the expulsion
of the minister, and the abrupt removal from the top of the sexton's head of all capillary
adornment.

But on our tea-table we will have first-rate Ningyong, or Pouchong, or Souchong, or Oolong,
so that the conversation may be pure and healthy.

We propose from time to time to report some of the talk of our visitors at the tea-table. We
do not entertain at tea many very great men. The fact is that great men at the tea-table for
the most part are a bore. They are apt to be self-absorbed, or so profound I cannot understand
them, or analytical of food, or nervous from having studied themselves half to death, or exhume
a piece of brown bread from their coat-tail because they are dyspeptic, or make such solemn
remarks about hydro-benzamide or sulphindigotic acid that the children get frightened and burst
out crying, thinking something dreadful is going to happen. Learned Johnson, splashing his
pompous wit over the table for Boswell to pick up, must have been a sublime nuisance. It was
said of Goldsmith that "he wrote like an angel and talked like poor Poll." There is more interest
in the dining-room when we have ordinary people than when we have extraordinary.

There are men and women who occasionally meet at our tea-table whose portraits are worth taking.
There are Dr. Butterfield, Mr. Givemfits, Dr. Heavyasbricks, Miss Smiley and Miss Stinger,
who come to see us. We expect to invite them all to tea very soon; and as you will in future
hear of their talk, it is better that I tell you now some of their characteristics.

Dr. Butterfield is one of our most welcome visitors at the tea-table. As his name indicates,
he is both melting and beautiful. He always takes pleasant views of things. He likes his tea
sweet; and after his cup is passed to him, he frequently hands it back, and says, "This is
really delightful, but a little more sugar, if you please." He has a mellowing effect upon
the whole company. After hearing him talk a little while, I find tears standing in my eyes
without any sufficient reason. It is almost as good as a sermon to see him wipe his mouth with
a napkin. I would not want him all alone to tea, because it would be making a meal of sweetmeats.
But when he is present with others of different temperament, he is entertaining. He always
reminds me of the dessert called floating island, beaten egg on custard. On all subjects--political,
social and religious--he takes the smooth side. He is a minister, and preached a course of
fifty-one sermons on heaven in one year, saying that he would preach on the last and fifty-second
Sunday concerning a place of quite opposite character; but the audience assembling on that
day, in August, he rose and said that it was too hot to preach, and so dismissed them immediately
with a benediction. At the tea-table I never could persuade him to take any currant-jelly,
for he always preferred strawberry-jam. He rejects acidity.

We generally place opposite him at the tea-table Mr. Givemfits. He is the very antipodes of
Dr. Butterfield; and when the two talk, you get both sides of a subject. I have to laugh to
hear them talk; and my little girl, at the controversial collisions, gets into such hysterics
that we have to send her with her mouth full into the next room, to be pounded on the back
to stop her from choking. My friend Givemfits is "down on" almost everything but tea, and I
think one reason of his nervous, sharp, petulant way is that he takes too much of this beverage.
He thinks the world is very soon coming to an end, and says, "The sooner the better, confound
it!" He is a literary man, a newspaper writer, a book critic, and so on; but if he were a minister,
he would preach a course of fifty-one sermons on "future punishment," proposing to preach the
fifty-second and last Sabbath on "future rewards;" but the last Sabbath, coming in December,
he would say to his audience, "Really, it is too cold to preach. We will close with the doxology
and omit the benediction, as I must go down by the stove to warm."

He does not like women--thinks they are of no use in the world, save to set the tea a-drawing.
Says there was no trouble in Paradise till a female came there, and that ever since Adam lost
the rib woman has been to man a bad pain in the side. He thinks that Dr. Butterfield, who sits
opposite him at the tea-table, is something of a hypocrite, and asks him all sorts of puzzling
questions. The fact is, it is vinegar-cruet against sugar-bowl in perpetual controversy. I
do not blame Givemfits as much as many do. His digestion is poor. The chills and fever enlarged
his spleen. He has frequent attacks of neuralgia. Once a week he has the sick headache. His
liver is out of order. He has twinges of rheumatism. Nothing he ever takes agrees with him
but tea, and that doesn't. He has had a good deal of trial, and the thunder of trouble has
soured the milk of human kindness. When he gets criticising Dr. Butterfield's sermons and books,
I have sometimes to pretend that I hear somebody at the front door, so that I can go out in
the hall and have an uproarious laugh without being indecorous. It is one of the great amusements
of my life to have on opposite sides of my tea-table Dr. Butterfield and Mr. Givemfits.

But we have many others who come to our tea-table: Miss Smiley, who often runs in about six
o'clock. All sweetness is Miss Smiley. She seems to like everybody, and everybody seems to
like her. Also Miss Stinger, sharp as a hornet, prides herself on saying things that cut; dislikes
men; cannot bear the sight of a pair of boots; loathes a shaving apparatus; thinks Eve would
have shown better capacity for housekeeping if she had, the first time she used her broom,
swept Adam out of Paradise. Besides these ladies, many good, bright, useful and sensible people
of all kinds. In a few days we shall invite a group of them to tea, and you shall hear some
of their discussions of men and books and things. We shall order a canister of the best Young
Hyson, pull out the extension-table, hang on the kettle, stir the blaze, and with chamois and
silver-powder scour up the tea-set that we never use save when we have company.

CHAPTER II.

MR. GIVEMFITS AND DR. BUTTERFIELD.

The tea-kettle never sang a sweeter song than on the evening I speak of. It evidently knew
that company was coming. At the appointed time our two friends, Dr. Butterfield and Mr. Givemfits,
arrived. As already intimated, they were opposite in temperament--the former mild, mellow,
fat, good-natured and of fine digestion, always seeing the bright side of anything; the other,
splenetic, harsh, and when he swallowed anything was not sure whether he would be the death
of it, or it would be the death of him.

No sooner had they taken their places opposite each other at the table than conversation opened.
As my wife was handing the tea over to Mr. Givemfits the latter broke out in a tirade against
the weather. He said that this winter was the most unbearable that had ever been known in the
almanacs. When it did not rain, it snowed; and when it was not mud, it was sleet. At this point
he turned around and coughed violently, and said that in such atmosphere it was impossible
to keep clear of colds. He thought he would go South. He would rather not live at all than
live in such a climate as this. No chance here, save for doctors and undertakers, and even
they have to take their own medicines and lie in their own coffins. At this Dr. Butterfield
gave a good-natured laugh, and said, "I admit the inconveniences of the weather; but are you
not aware that there has been a drought for three years in the country, and great suffering
in the land for lack of rain? We need all this wet weather to make an equilibrium. What is
discomfort to you is the wealth of the land. Besides that, I find that if I cannot get sunshine
in the open air I can carry it in the crown of my hat. He who has a warm coat, and a full stove,
and a comfortable house, ought not to spend much of his time in complaint."

Miss Smiley slid this moment into the conversation with a hearty "Ha! ha!" She said, "This
last winter has been the happiest of my life. I never hear the winds gallop but I want to join
them. The snow is only the winter in blossom. Instead of here and there on the pond, the whole
country is covered with white lilies. I have seen gracefulness enough in the curve of a snowdrift
to keep me in admiration for a week. Do you remember that morning after the storm of sleet,
when every tree stood in mail of ice, with drawn sword of icicle? Besides, I think the winter
drives us in, and drives us together. We have never had such a time at our house with checker-boards
and dominoes, and blind-man's-buff, and the piano, as this winter. Father and mother said it
seemed to them like getting married over again. Besides that, on nights when the storm was
so great that the door-bell went to bed and slept soundly, Charles Dickens stepped in from
Gad's Hill; and Henry W. Longfellow, without knocking, entered the sitting-room, his hair white
as if he had walked through the snow with his hat off; and William H. Prescott, with his eyesight
restored, happened in from Mexico, a cactus in his buttonhole; and Audubon set a cage of birds
on the table--Baltimore oriole, chaffinch, starling and bobolink doing their prettiest; and
Christopher North thumped his gun down on the hall floor, and hung his 'sporting jacket' on
the hat-rack, and shook the carpet brown with Highland heather. As Walter Scott came in his
dog scampered in after him, and put both paws up on the marble-top table; and Minnie asked
the old man why he did not part his hair better, instead of letting it hang all over his forehead,
and he apologized for it by the fact that he had been on a long tramp from Melrose Abbey to
Kenilworth Castle. But I think as thrilling an evening as we had this winter was with a man
who walked in with a prison-jacket, his shoes mouldy, and his cheek pallid for the want of
the sunlight. He was so tired that he went immediately to sleep. He would not take the sofa,
saying he was not used to that, but he stretched himself on the floor and put his head on an
ottoman. At first he snored dreadfully, and it was evident he had a horrid dream; but after
a while he got easier, and a smile came over his face, and he woke himself singing and shouting.
I said, 'What is the matter with you, and what were you dreaming about?' 'Well,' he said, 'the
bad dream I had was about the City of Destruction, and the happy dream was about the Celestial
City;' and we all knew him right away, and shouted, 'Glorious old John Bunyan! How is Christiana?'
So, you see," said Miss Smiley, "on stormy nights we really have a pleasanter time than when
the moon and stars are reigning."

Miss Stinger had sat quietly looking into her tea-cup until this moment, when she clashed her
spoon into the saucer, and said, "If there is any thing I dislike, it is an attempt at poetry
when you can't do it. I know some people who always try to show themselves in public; but when
they are home, they never have their collar on straight, and in the morning look like a whirlwind
breakfasting on a haystack. As for me, I am practical, and winter is winter, and sleet is sleet,
and ice is ice, and a tea-cup is a tea-cup; and if you will pass mine up to the hostess to
be resupplied, I will like it a great deal better than all this sentimentalism. No sweetening,
if you please. I do not like things sweet. Do not put in any of your beautiful snow for sugar,
nor stir it with an icicle."

This sudden jerk in the conversation snapped it off, and for a moment there was quiet. I knew
not how to get conversation started again. Our usual way is to talk about the weather; but
that subject had been already exhausted.

Suddenly I saw the color for the first time in years come into the face of Mr. Givemfits. The
fact was that, in biting a hard crust of bread, he had struck a sore tooth which had been troubling
him, and he broke out with the exclamation, "Dr. Butterfield, the physical and moral world
is degenerating. Things get worse and worse. Look, for instance, at the tone of many of the
newspapers; gossip, abuse, lies, blackmail, make up the chief part of them, and useful intelligence
is the exception. The public have more interest in murders and steamboat explosions than in
the items of mental and spiritual progress. Church and State are covered up with newspaper mud."

"Stop!" said Dr. Butterfield. "Don't you ever buy newspapers?"

CHAPTER III.

A GROWLER SOOTHED.

Givemfits said to Dr. Butterfield, "You asked me last evening if I ever bought newspapers.
I reply, Yes, and write for them too.

"But I see their degeneracy. Once you could believe nearly all they said; now he is a fool
who believes a tenth part of it. There is the New York 'Scandalmonger,' and the Philadelphia
'Prestidigitateur,' and the Boston 'Prolific,' which do nothing but hoodwink and confound the
public mind. Ten dollars will get a favorable report of a meeting, or as much will get it caricatured.
There is a secret spring behind almost every column. It depends on what the editor had for
supper the night before whether he wants Foster hung or his sentence commuted. If the literary
man had toast and tea, as weak as this before me, he sleeps soundly, and next day says in his
columns that Foster ought not to be executed; he is a good fellow, and the clergymen who went
to Albany to get him pardoned were engaged in a holy calling, and their congregations had better
hold fast of them lest they go up like Elijah. But if the editor had a supper at eleven, o'clock
at night of scallops fried in poor lard, and a little too much bourbon, the next day he is
headachy, and says Foster, the scalawag, ought to be hung, or beaten to death with his own
car-hook, and the ministers who went to Albany to get him pardoned might better have been taking
tea with some of the old ladies. I have been behind the scenes and know all about it, and must
admit that I have done some of the bad work myself. I have on my writing-stand thirty or forty
books to discuss as a critic, and the column must be made up. Do you think I take time to read
the thirty or forty books? No. I first take a dive into the index, a second dive into the preface,
a third dive into the four hundredth page, the fourth dive into the seventieth page, and then
seize my pen and do up the whole job in fifteen minutes. I make up my mind to like the book
or not to like it, according as I admire or despise the author. But the leniency or severity
of my article depends on whether the room is cold and my rheumatism that day is sharp or easy.
Speaking of these things reminds me that the sermon which the Right Reverend Bishop Goodenough
preached last Sunday, on 'Growth in Grace,' was taken down and brought to our office by a reporter
who fell over the door-sill of the sanctum so drunk we had to help him up and fish in his pockets
for the bishop's sermon on holiness of heart and life, which we were sure was somewhere about him."

"Tut! tut!" cried Dr. Butterfield. "I think, Mr. Givemfits, you are entirely mistaken. (The
doctor all the while stirring the sugar in his cup.) I think the printing-press is a mighty
agency for the world's betterment. If I were not a minister, I would be an editor. There are
Bohemians in the newspaper profession, as in all others, but do not denounce the entire apostleship
for the sake of one Judas. Reporters, as I know them, are clever fellows, worked almost to
death, compelled to keep unseasonable hours, and have temptations to fight which few other
occupations endure. Considering the blunders and indistinctness of the public speaker, I think
they get things wonderfully accurate. The speaker murders the king's English, and is mad because
the reporter cannot resuscitate the corpse. I once made a speech at an ice-cream festival amid
great embarrassments, and hemmed, and hawed, and expectorated cotton from my dry mouth, and
sweat like a Turkish bath, the adjectives, and the nouns, and verbs, and prepositions of my
address keeping an Irish wake; but the next day, in the 'Johnstown Advocate,' my remarks read
as gracefully as Addison's 'Spectator.' I knew a phonographer in Washington whose entire business
it was to weed out from Congressmen's speeches the sins against Anglo-Saxon; but the work was
too much for him, and he died of delirium tremens, from having drank too much of the wine of
syntax, in his ravings imagining that 'interrogations' were crawling over him like snakes,
and that 'interjections' were thrusting him through with daggers and 'periods' struck him like
bullets, and his body seemed torn apart by disjunctive conjunctions. No, Mr. Givemfits, you
are too hard. And as to the book-critics whom you condemn, they do more for the circulation
of books than any other class, especially if they denounce and caricature, for then human nature
will see the book at any price. After I had published my book on 'The Philosophy of Civilization,'
it was so badgered by the critics and called so many hard names that my publishers could not
print it fast enough to meet the demands of the curious. Besides, what would we do without
the newspaper? With, the iron rake of the telegraph it draws the whole world to our door every
morning. The sermon that the minister preached to five hundred people on Sabbath the newspaper
next day preaches to fifty thousand. It takes the verses which the poet chimed in his small
room of ten feet by six, and rings them into the ears of the continent. The cylinder of the
printing-press is to be one of the wheels of the Lord's chariot. The good newspapers will overcome
the bad ones, and the honey-bees will outnumber the hornets. Instead of the three or four religious
newspapers that once lived on gruel and pap, sitting down once a week on some good man's door-step
to rest, thankful if not kicked off, now many of the denominations have stalwart journals that
swing their scythe through the sins of the world, and are avant couriers of the Lord's coming."

As Dr. Butterfield concluded this sentence his face shone like a harvest moon. We had all dropped
our knives, and were looking at him. The Young Hyson tea was having its mollifying effect on
the whole company. Mr. Givemfits had made way with his fourth cup (they were small cups, the
set we use for company), and he was entirely soothed and moderated in his opinions about everything,
and actually clapped his hands at Dr. Butterfield's peroration. Even Miss Stinger was in a
glow, for she had drank large quantities of the fragrant beverage while piping hot, and in
her delight she took Givemfits' arm, and asked him if he ever meant to get married. Miss Smiley
smiled. Then Dr. Butterfield lifted his cup, and proposed a toast which we all drank standing:
"The mission of the printing-press! The salubrity of the climate! The prospects ahead! The
wonders of Oolong and Young Hyson!"

CHAPTER IV.

CARLO AND THE FREEZER.

We had a jolly time at our tea-table this evening. We had not seen our old friend for ten years.
When I heard his voice in the hall, it seemed like a snatch of "Auld Lang Syne." He came from
Belleville, where was the first home we ever set up for ourselves. It was a stormy evening,
and we did not expect company, but we soon made way for him at the table. Jennie was very willing
to stand up at the corner; and after a fair napkin had been thrown over the place where she
had dropped a speck of jelly, our friend and I began the rehearsal of other days. While I was
alluding to a circumstance that occurred between me and one of my Belleville neighbors the
children cried out with stentorian voice, "Tell us about Carlo and the freezer;" and they kicked
the leg of the table, and beat with both hands, and clattered the knives on the plate, until
I was compelled to shout, "Silence! You act like a band of Arabs! Frank, you had better swallow
what you have in your mouth before you attempt to talk." Order having been gained, I began:

We sat in the country parsonage, on a cold winter day, looking out of our back window toward
the house of a neighbor. She was a model of kindness, and a most convenient neighbor to have.
It was a rule between us that when either house was in want of anything it should borrow of
the other. The rule worked well for the parsonage, but rather badly for the neighbor, because
on our side of the fence we had just begun to keep house, and needed to borrow everything,
while we had nothing to lend, except a few sermons, which the neighbor never tried to borrow,
from the fact that she had enough of them on Sundays. There is no danger that your neighbor
will burn a hole in your new brass kettle if you have none to lend. It will excite no surprise
to say that we had an interest in all that happened on the other side of the parsonage fence,
and that any injury inflicted on so kind a woman would rouse our sympathy.

On the wintry morning of which we speak our neighbor had been making ice-cream; but there being
some defect in the machinery, the cream had not sufficiently congealed, and so she set the
can of the freezer containing the luxury on her back steps, expecting the cold air would completely
harden it. What was our dismay to see that our dog Carlo, on whose early education we were
expending great care, had taken upon himself the office of ice-cream inspector, and was actually
busy with the freezer! We hoisted the window and shouted at him, but his mind was so absorbed
in his undertaking he did not stop to listen. Carlo was a greyhound, thin, gaunt and long-nosed,
and he was already making his way on down toward the bottom of the can. His eyes and all his
head had disappeared in the depths of the freezer. Indeed, he was so far submerged that when
he heard us, with quick and infuriate pace, coming up close behind him, he could not get his
head out, and so started with the encumbrance on his head, in what direction he knew not. No
dog was ever in a more embarrassing position--freezer to the right of him, freezer to the left
of him, freezer on the top of him, freezer under him.

So, thoroughly blinded, he rushed against the fence then against the side of the house, then
against a tree. He barked as though he thought he might explode the nuisance with loud sound,
but the sound was confined in so strange a speaking-trumpet that he could not have known his
own voice. His way seemed hedged up. Fright and anger and remorse and shame whirled him about
without mercy.

A feeling of mirthfulness, which sometimes takes me on most inappropriate occasions, seized
me, and I sat down on the ground, powerless at the moment when Carlo most needed help. If I
only could have got near enough, I would have put my foot on the freezer, and, taking hold
of the dog's tail, dislodged him instantly; but this I was not permitted to do. At this stage
of the disaster my neighbor appeared with a look of consternation, her cap-strings flying in
the cold wind. I tried to explain, but the aforesaid untimely hilarity hindered me. All I could
do was to point at the flying freezer and the adjoining dog and ask her to call off her freezer,
and, with assumed indignation, demand what she meant by trying to kill my greyhound.

The poor dog's every attempt at escape only wedged himself more thoroughly fast. But after
a while, in time to save the dog, though not to save the ice-cream, my neighbor and myself
effected a rescue. Edwin Landseer, the great painter of dogs and their friends, missed his
best chance by not being there when the parishioner took hold of the freezer and the pastor
seized the dog's tail, and, pulling mightily in opposite directions, they each got possession
of their own property.

Carlo was cured of his love for luxuries, and the sight of the freezer on the back steps till
the day of his death would send him howling away.

